WBWWlMttMWWtWUBBWUUlMMllUlW 


UMlWlMUUIJIIllMimiMlJimilll 


M 


kV* 


. 


„,,,. SB; 


WPI  JOURNAL 


J-Jir  K 


HiMob 


CONTENTS 


Coming  Home  by  Michael  IV.  Dorsey 

AJ  Sacco  says  the  16  days  he  spent  in  space  last  year  were  the  most 

exciting  of  his  life.  The  experience  also  helped  him  see  the  world  and  his 

life  in  a  whole  new  way.  The  only  hard  part  was  returning  to  Earth. 

Page  6 

The  Case  of  the  Purloined  Goat's  Head  by  Joan  Killough-Miller 

Last  fall,  WTI  hrought  hack  the  traditional  Goat's  Head  rivalry.  Anew 

goat  was  cast  and  plans  were  made  for  a  big  kickoff  at  Homecoming. 
But  a  few  light-fingered  seniors  decided  to  get  things  going  a  little  early. 

Page  8 

Digital  Drama  by  Amy  Flack  "96 

Computers  are  invading  the  world  of  theater,  as  everything  from 

script  writing  to  set  design  is  entering  the  digital  age.  A  new  program 

at  WTI  is  preparing  students  for  careers  in  the  brave  new  world  of 

theater  technology. 
Page  10 

Hey,  Joe!  by  Ray  Beit  '93 

For  50  years,  Joe  Gale's  been  a  mentor  to  students,  an  ambassador  for 

WTI  athletics,  and  a  friend  to  everyone  he  meets.  And  in  the  words  of 

one  student,  he's  got  more  memories  than  you  can  shake  a  stick  at. 

Page  12 

DEPARTMENTS 


Letters  Use  Plan  as  Model  for  Medical  Education;  "Travels"  Disappointing;  Facts  Wrrong  on  Tatum  and  Olmstead.  Page  2 

Innovations  A  Decade  at  the  Frontier,  by  Carol  Garofoli.  Page  3 
Final  Word  The  Normandin  Sisters  Thrive  in  a  "Man's  World,"  by  Ruth  Trask.  Page  32 


On  the  cover:  Al  Sacco  enjoys  an  out-of-this-world  view 

from  the  space  shuttle  Columbia's  flight  deck.  A  member  of  the 

crew  of  STS-73,  Sacco  was  deeply  moved  by  the  sight  of  Earth 

from  space.  Even  photographs  as  spectacular  as  our  back 

cover  shot  of  the  Kalihari  desert  in  Namibia,  Africa,  a  photo 

taken  from  STS-73,  can't  capture  the  beauty  of  our  planet,  he 

says.  Opposite:  A  view  of  Joe  Gale  doing  what  he  does  best: 

teaching  young  people  to  weld.  Photo  by  Jonathan  Kannair. 


Staff  of  the  If  "PI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gel bwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask  • 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Samuel  Mencow  '37,  chairman,  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,  James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60,  Joel  P.  Greene  '69.  William  R.  Grogan 

'46,  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45.  Harlan  B.  Williams  'SO  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  tor  the  WTI  Alumni  Associaoon  by  the  Office  of 

University  Relations.  Second-class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  \'t.  Printed  in  the  U.S.A. 

Diverse  views  presented  m  this  magazine  do  not  neeessanh  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  official  WPI policies.  II  e  welcome  letters  to  the  editor.  Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor. 
WPI  Journal.  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280  •  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  Fax:  {508)  831-5604  •  Electronic  Mail,  wpi-journal@wpi.edu  •  World  Wide  H 
btip:/farww.wpi.edtt/AboutUs/News/Journal/  *  Postmaster:  Ifundelh  erable,  please  send  Form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  1996.  Worcester  Pofytecbnii  Institute. 


I 


Use  Plan  as  Model  for 
Medical  Education 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  thought  the  essay  by  President  Parrish  in 
the  Fall  1995  Journal  ("A  Work  in  Progress: 
WPI  and  the  Future  of  Technological  Edu- 
cation") was  excellent.  I  believe  the  WPI 
Plan  can  be  a  model  not  only  for  engineer- 
ing education,  but  across  many  disciplines — 
particularly  medicine. 

Medicine,  like  engineering,  is  changing. 
Medical  students  need  more  than  just  facts 
— they  need  to  learn  to  think.  The  content 
is  intensive  and  the  field  is  changing  too  fast 
to  keep  up. 

Education  programs  in  medicine  and 
engineering  share  many  similarities.  The 
hardest  problem  is  to  get  students  to  make 
the  transition  from  being  simple  fact  regur- 
gitaters  to  being  independent,  logical 
thinkers.  When  they  enter  practice,  both 
groups  need  to  quickly  gather  facts  and 
come  up  with  the  best  low-cost  solution. 

Physicians  are  not  just  researchers  who 
approach  problems  from  a  theoretical  basis. 
The  best  physician  makes  a  "hunch"  based 
on  the  presentation,  does  a  quick  clinical 
test  likely  to  verify  the  hunch,  and  makes  a 
recommendation  based  on  the  outcome.  A 
battery  of  tests  is  not  needed  nor  used. 

Traditional  medical  school  now  requires 
four  years  of  college  work  followed  by  four 
years  of  medical  school  (two  years  of  basic 
science  and  two  years  of  clinical  rotations). 
This  only  prepares  one  for  residencies  of 
three  to  eight  years;  then  there  are  fellow- 
ships after  that!  In  a  time  of  decreased 
resources,  this  timeline  is  too  long. 

The  WPI  Plan  shows  that  it  is  possible 
to  efficiently  get  students  to  perform  inde- 
pendently in  a  short  period  of  time.  It  is 
now  time  to  get  this  paradigm  out  to  other 
professions. 

STEPHEN  S.  HULL  JR.  79 

COLLEGE  OF  MEDICINE 

UNIVERSITY  OF  OKLAHOMA 

"Travels" 
Disappointing 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

It  was  disappointing  that  you  thought  Alex 
Thorp  '92  had  something  of  value  to  com- 
municate to  Journal  readers  ("Travels  With 
Alex,"  Summer  1995). 

I  would  have  given  my  right  arm,  upon 
graduation,  to  have  been  able  to  go  off  on  a 
bicycle  trip.  Instead,  I  had  to  work.  The  lux- 


LETTERS 


ury  of  Thorp's  time  off,  in  my  case,  would 
come  only  after  I  had  served  greedy  "big 
business"  and  the  military  for  over  45  years, 
practicing  what  WPI  had  so  well  trained  me 
to  do. 

I  also  had  no  trouble  figuring  out  that 
"commercialism"  gives  people  work  so  they 
can  eat — the  more  of  it  the  better.  Thorp's 
fuzzy  blatherings  about  the  "too  complicat- 
ed and  too  commercial  world"  show  that  he 
has  failed  to  learn  how  our  American  pro- 
ductive miracle  operates,  and  how  its  cre- 
ative, generous  workers,  together  with  big 
business,  manage  to  liberate,  feed  and 
defend  about  half  the  people  on  Earth. 

Thomas  P.  Foley  '46 
New  Bern,  N.C. 

Facts  Wrong  on 
Tatum  and  Olmstead 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  am  writing  because  I  believe  the  Journal 
has  become  lax  in  its  confirmation  of  facts. 
In  particular,  I'd  like  to  point  to  the  refer- 
ence to  Goose  Tatum  in  an  article  about 
the  Kobe  Earthquake  ("Blowing  Away 
Goose  Tatum,"  Spring  1995).  The  article 
described  Tatum  as  the  Trotters'  expert  ball 
handler,  and  not  as  the  prototype  for  future 
Harlem  Globetrotters  like  Meadowlark 
Lemon.  In  fact,  the  fancy  ball  handler  who 
was  responsible,  along  with  Tatum,  for  the 


We'd  Like  to  Hear  From  You 

The  WPI  Journal  welcomes  letters  to 
the  editor.  If  you  have  something  you'd 
like  to  tell  us  about  anything  you  read 
in  these  pages — or  if  you'd  like  to  share 
your  thoughts  about  WPI  with  fellow 
Journal  readers — please  drop  us  a  line. 

There  are  now  three  ways  to  get 
your  missive  into  our  hands: 

•  Via  U.S.  Mail:  The  address  is  The 
Editor,  WPI  Journal,  100  Institute 
Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280. 

•  Via  Electronic  Mail:  If  you  have 
an  Internet  connection,  you  can  zap 
your  letter  to  the  editor  in  seconds. 
The  address  is  wpi-jounial@wpi.edu. 

•  Via  the  World  Wide  Web:  A  new 
form  on  the  Journal's  Web  service 
makes  it  easy  to  compose  letters  and 
send  them  right  to  the  editor.  The 
URL  is  http://www.wpi.edu/AboutUs/ 
News/Journal.  From  the  Journal  menu, 
select  "Send  a  Letter  to  the  Editor." 


Frederick  Law  Olmstead,  father  of 
landscape  architecture  in  America, 
was  not  a  son  of  Worcester. 

rise  in  popularity  of  the  Globetrotters  was 
Marques  Haynes. 

I  remained  silent  about  this  because  the 
article  was  a  personal  recollection  and  was 
subject  to  the  author's  memory. 

A  more  important  error  occurred  in 
an  article  on  architect  Wallace  Harrison 
("One  of  a  Kind,"  Summer  1995).  The 
article  gave  the  mistaken  impression  that 
Frederick  Law  Olmstead  was  a  son  of 
Worcester.  In  reality,  Olmstead  was  not 
even  a  Massachusetts  child.  To  set  the 
record  straight,  here  is  a  quote  from  Vol.  1 
of  The  Papers  of  Frederick  Law  Olmstead, 
edited  by  Charles  McLaughlin: 

"Frederick  Law  Olmstead,  die  first  child 
of  John  Olmstead  and  Charlotte  Hull,  was 
born  on  April  26,  1822.  Fortunately,  his 
father,  a  well-established  dry-goods  mer- 
chant in  Hartford,  Conn.,  was  able  to  sup- 
port his  growing  family.. ..Frederick  Olm- 
stead had  already  tried  several  schools  in 
Hartford  by  the  time  he  was  seven...." 

Harvard  has  also  claimed  Olmstead  as 
its  own,  but  the  record  shows  that  his  formal 
education  was  cut  short  at  the  age  of  1 5  "by 
a  case  of  poison  sumac  that  spread  to  his 
eyes  and  threatened  blindness,"  McLaughlin 
wrote.  Olmstead  studied  civil  engineering  at 
Phillips  Academy  in  Andover,  Mass.,  but 
instead  of  pursuing  that  discipline,  became 
a  scientific  farmer  near  Waterbury,  Conn. 
I've  always  considered  Olmstead  an  environ- 
mental leader,  but  the  landscape  architects 
have  taken  control  of  his  legacy. 

I  hope  this  background  sets  the  record 
straight  for  your  readers. 

domenic  forcella  70 
Newtngton,  Conn. 


Winter  1996 


INNOVATIONS 


Much  research  would  agree  with 
common  sense — students  inter- 
ested in  careers  in  mathematics, 
science  and  engineering  need  to  have  their 
imaginations  fired  by  seeing  science  and 
technology  in  action  before  they  choose  to 
pursue  those  subjects  in  college.  The 
research  also  shows  that  the  best  kind  of 
stimulation  for  pre-college  students  is  an 
extended  opportunity  to  work,  hands-on,  in 
a  real  research  laboratory. 

Recognizing  this,  William  Grogan  '46, 
then  dean  of  undergraduate  studies  at  WPI, 
and  Peter  Christopher,  professor  of  mathe- 
matical sciences,  submitted  a  proposal  to  the 
George  I.  Alden  Trust  in  the  early  1980s 
requesting  funds  to  start  a  summer  program 
for  exceptional  high  school  students.  They 
were  responding,  as  were  many  others  in 
higher  education  at  the  time,  to  the  need  to 
get  more  high  school  students  to  pursue  the 
demanding  curricula  of  science  and  mathe- 
matics. 

"We  must  return  to  basics,"  they  wrote 
in  the  proposal,  "but  the  'basics'  of  the  21st 
century  are  not  only  reading,  writing  and 
arithmetic.  They  include  communication 
and  higher  problem-solving  skills,  and  sci- 
entific and  technological  literacy — the 
thinking  tools  that  allow  us  to  understand 
the  technological  world  around  us." 

The  program  Grogan  and  Christopher 
envisioned  would  encourage  young  people 


In  1983,  WPI  launched  a 

summer  enrichment  prognwi  for 

soon-to-be  high  school  seniors. 

Since  then,  more  than  1,300 

students  have  come  to  campus 

to  explore  science,  mathematics 

and  technology  at  the  leading 

edge  and  to  get  a  taste  of  college 

life.  Of  those  students,  many  have 

gone  on  to  graduate  from  WPI, 

making  WPI  Frontiers  a 

successful  admissions  program, 

as  well.  Here's  a  look  back  at  the 

program 's  first  13  years. 


from  central  Massachusetts  to  pursue  their 
burgeoning  interest  in  science  and  math  in 
a  stimulating  and  supportive  learning  envi- 
ronment. They  decided  that  the  program 
would  focus  on  physics,  chemistry  and 
mathematics,  with  the  hope  that  students 

Above,  students  in  Frontiers'  civil  and 
environmental  engineering  discipline 
set  out  to  test  their  concrete  canoe. 


who  were  turned  on  by  their  experience  on 
campus  would  go  on  to  major  in  those  disci- 
plines at  WPI,  helping  increase  enrollment 
in  these  comparatively  small  departments. 

The  Alden  Trust  funded  the  proposal, 
and  Frontiers  in  Science  and  Mathematics 
(now  called  simply  WPI  Frontiers  due  to 
its  expanded  focus)  made  its  debut  in  the 
summer  of  1983.  The  initial  offering  was  a 
great  success,  attracting  36  students  (includ- 
ing 14  women)  who  paid  $350  apiece  for 
the  12 -day  residential  experience.  With 
Provost  Diran  Apelian's  support,  the  pro- 
gram's offerings  were  expanded  to  include 
mechanical  engineering,  design,  theater 
technology  and  computer  music.  In  1995, 
106  students  from  14  states,  Puerto  Rico 
and  Belgium  participated. 

Frontiers  has  evolved  from  a  program 
designed  chiefly  to  increase  interest  in 
undersubscribed  academic  departments  to 
an  effective  general  recruiting  tool  for  the 
Institute.  Of  the  106  students  who  partici- 
pated in  the  program  in  1994,  for  example, 
25  enrolled  at  WPI  in  the  fall  of  1995. 
(Students  who  matriculate  at  WTI  have 
the  cost  of  attending  Frontiers  deducted 
from  their  first  year's  tuition.)  Early  results 
indicate  that  about  50  percent  of  the  stu- 
dents who  attended  Frontiers  last  summer 
have  applied  to  WTI. 

The  program  is  designed  to  give  rising 
high  school  seniors  the  opportunity  to 


WPI  JOURNAL 


study  subjects  not  typically  offered  in  the 
secondary  school  classroom.  Since  1983, 
the  range  of  subjects  has  expanded  signifi- 
cantly, as  the  program's  focus  areas  have 
grown  from  three  to  10,  including  three 
fields  of  engineering:  civil  and  environ- 
mental, electrical  and  computer,  and 
mechanical.  The  emphasis  has  remained 
on  hands-on  learning,  not  passive  lectures. 
The  WPI  faculty  members  who  serve  as 
teachers  and  mentors  in  each  of  the  10  dis- 
ciplines endeavor 
to  offer  students 
a  challenging 
and  rewarding 
research  and 
learning  experi- 
ence. 

In  the  summer 
of  1995,  for  exam- 
ple, students 
choosing  the  biol- 
ogy option  cloned 
genes  and  sampled 
wildlife  in  a  coastal 
wetland.  Students 
in  the  civil  and 
environmental 
engineering  con- 
centration got 
hands-on  experi- 
ence with  testing 

procedures  by  building  small  bridges  and 
evaluating  them  with  sophisticated  comput- 
er analysis  and  design  techniques.  They  also 
built  a  concrete  canoe  and  launched  it  on 
Salisbury  Pond. 

In  chemistry,  students  probed  the  molec- 
ular basis  of  matter  using  such  state-of-the- 
art  lab  tools  as  spectrophotometers  and  gas 
chromatographs.  Students  in  the  computer 
science  section  sat  at  powerful  workstations 
and  collaborated  on  a  software  engineering 
project  using  C++,  an  object-oriented 
programming  language.  In  electrical  and 
computer  engineering,  students  designed 
control  systems  and  microprocessors.  In 
mechanical  engineering,  they  designed  and 
built  working  model  electric  cars  that  were 
entered  in  a  competition  and  did  some  alu- 
minum casting. 

Though  the  students  spend  the  majority 
of  their  time  working  in  a  technically-ori- 
ented field,  the  Frontiers  staff  believes  that 
future  scientists  and  engineers  should  also 
be  exposed  to  the  humanities  so  they  can 
appreciate  the  important  role  nontechnical 
disciplines  play  in  the  working  and  personal 
lives  of  technological  professionals.  Accord- 
ingly, students  spend  part  of  their  time  on 


campus  in  workshops  playing  music,  writ- 
ing, developing  their  public  speaking  skills, 
and  learning  about  drama  and  theater. 

Recognizing  that  science  and  technolo- 
gy are  becoming  increasingly  important  in 
many  areas  of  the  humanities  and  arts,  the 
Frontiers  staff  recently  added  two  new  acad- 
emic areas  to  the  program:  theater  technolo- 
gy (see  related  story,  page  10)  and  computer 
music.  The  faculty  felt  that  expanding  the 
focus  of  the  program  in  this  way  might  also 


broaden  its  appeal  by  attracting  stu- 
dents who  might  not  have  realized 
such  opportunities  exist  at  our  tech- 
nological university. 

In  theater  technology,  students 
learn  to  use  computers  to  design  sets, 
stage  lighting  and  sound.  To  put 
what  they  learn  into  practice,  they 
work  with  students  from  the  drama/ 
theater  workshops  to  produce  a  play. 
Students  who  choose  computer 
music  work  with  the  sophisticated 
equipment  and  electronic  composi- 
tion software  in  WPI's  Computer 
Music  Laboratory.  Over  the  course 
of  the  program,  they  write  and  per- 
form an  original  composition.  They 
also  work  with  students  from  the 
music  workshop  to  rehearse  and  put  on  a 
concert  featuring  several  music  groups. 

One  of  the  broader  goals  of  Frontiers  is 
to  offer  students  a  taste  of  college  life — in 
particular,  life  at  an  outstanding  technologi- 
cal university.  Students  live  in  residence 
halls  and  dine  in  the  student  dining  hall. 
They  have  full  access  to  the  library  and  the 
university  computer  facilities.  They  attend 
lectures,  work  in  labs  and  do  homework. 


They  also  receive  insights  into  the  academic 
and  social  sides  of  the  college  experience  by 
talking  to  the  graduate  and  undergraduate 
students  who  serve  as  teaching  assistants  and 
resident  advisors  in  the  residence  halls. 

Not  surprisingly,  Frontiers  is  an  acade- 
mically rigorous,  intense  program.  But  just 
like  real  college  life,  it's  not  all  work  and  no 
play.  There  is  time  for  relaxation,  sports  and 
social  activities,  especially  on  Sunday,  the 
only  day  students  don't  spend  in  the  class- 

WPI  Frontiers  now  encompasses  10 
disciplines.  Last  summer,  students 
in  theater  technology  designed  stage 
lighting,  left,  and  students  in  mech- 
anical engineering  built  electric  cars, 
below.  Other  disciplines  represented 
last  summer  were  biology  and  bio- 
technology, right,  where  students 
spent  time  in  the  lab  cloning  genes, 
and  electrical  and  computer  engi- 
neering, where  activities  included 
designing  control  systems  and 
microprocessors,  far  right. 


room  and  lab  or  on  field  trips.  In  the  eve- 
ning and  during  free  periods,  they  enjoy 
recreational  sports,  movies,  dances,  tour- 
naments and  live  performances.  There  are 
programs  on  diversity  and  campus  safety. 
Students  may  also  take  classes  in  word  pro- 
cessing and  accessing  the  Internet — they 
even  learn  to  make  their  own  home  pages 
on  the  World  Wide  Web — among  other 
computer-related  topics. 


WINTER  1996 


In  the  years  since  Frontiers  was  found- 
ed, competition  among  summer  pre-college 
programs  has  intensified.  In  1983,  WPI  was 
one  of  the  few  colleges  that  offered  such  a 
program.  Now  there  are  hundreds  of  similar 


initiatives.  The  growth  in  the  summer 
enrichment  business  has  required  WPI  to 
dramatically  increase  its  marketing  efforts 
for  Frontiers.  Where  once  we  could  simply 
advertise  the  program  in  publications  aimed 
at  high  school  students,  now  we  send 
direct  mail  pieces  to  potential  stu- 
dents and  mail  announcements  to 
guidance  counselors  and  drama/ 
theater,  math,  music  and  science 
teachers  around  the  country. 

And,  of  course,  we  must  put 
Frontiers  on  the  frontiers  of  commu- 
nication. Last  year  we  started  listing 
e-mail  and  World  Wide  Web  ad- 
dresses for  Frontiers  in  our  brochure 
(fivntitrs@7Vpi.edu  and  http://wwiv. 
wpi.edu/Acadeinics/Specinl/ 
Frontiers).  The  response  has  been 
overwhelming.  The  program  now 
receives  more  inquiries  over  the 
Internet  than  by  telephone  or  mail. 
We've  endeavored  to  provide  Inter- 
net visitors  with  information  that 


One  of  the  broader 
goals  of  Frontiers  is  to 
offer  students  a  taste 
of  college  life — in 
particular,  life  at  an 
outstanding  techno- 
logical university. 


can't  be  captured  in  a  simple  brochure,  inclu- 
ding photos  of  the  buildings  in  which  they 
will  be  studying  and  residing  and  information 
about  the  teaching  faculty.  Students  can  even 
send  the  faculty  messages  by  e-mail.  As  a  new 
feature  this  year,  we've  made  it  possible  for 
students  to  apply  for  Frontiers  on-line. 

Each  year,  as  the  Frontiers  program 
draws  to  a  close,  we  ask  the  participants 
what  the  program  meant  to  them.  The  com- 
ments we  receive  are  heartening  and  heart- 
warming. For  many,  the  program  expands 
their  understanding  of  science  and  technol- 
ogy and  cements  their  conviction  to  pursue 
those  fields  in  college.  For  others,  it  opens 
their  eyes  to  the  challenges  and  rewards  of 
college  life.  And  for  virtually  all,  it  builds 
friendships  and  memories  that  endure. 

If  you  have  a  son  or  daughter  who  is  a 
rising  high  school  senior,  or  know  of  young 
people  who  might  enjoy  Frontiers,  I  hope 
you  will  tell  them  about  our  program.  We 
are  currently  accepting  applications  for  the 
1 996  program,  which  will  run  from  July  6 

to  July  18,  and 
we'd  love  to  hear 
from  them. 


Garofoli,  director  of 
academic  operations 
at  WPI,  coordinated 
the  Frontiers  pro- 
gram from  1986  to 
1995.  The  1996 
edition  of  Frontiers 
is  being  coordinated 
by  Blanche  Pringle, 
director  of  minority 
affairs,  and  Lance 
Schachterk,  assis- 
tant provost  for 
special  programs. 


Working  at  the  Frontier 

The  following  faculty  and  staff  members  have  been 

Faculty 

Padmanabhan  K.  Aravind,  Physics 

Frederick  W.  Bianchi,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Music) 

Peter  R.  Christopher,  Mathematical  Sciences 

Robert  E.  Connors,  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry 

Tahar  El-Korchi,  Civil  and  Environmental 
Engineering 

Richard  G.  Falco,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Music) 

David  Finkle,  Computer  Science 

Daniel  G.  Gibson,  Biology  and  Biotechnology 

Frederick  L.  Hart,  Civil  and  Environmental 
Engineering 


involved  with  Frontiers  over  the  years  as  instructors  and  administrators: 


Edmund  M.  Hayes,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Speech) 

Thomas  H.  Keil,  Physics 

Fred  J.  Looft  III,  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering 

Karen  A.  Lemone,  Computer  Science 

Barbara  L.  McCarthy,  Humanities  and  Arts 
(Communications) 

Denise  W.  Nicoletti,  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering 

Dean  M.  O'Donnell,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Theater 
Technology) 

Philip  E.  Robakiewicz,  Biology  and  Biotechnology 

Susan  Vick,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Drama/Theater) 


Douglas  B.  Walcerz.  Mechanical  Engineering 

Matthew  0.  Ward,  Computer  Science 

Douglas  G.  Weeks,  Humanities  and  Arts  (Music) 

Staff 

Bernard  H.  Brown,  vice  president  for  student  affairs 

Philip  N,  Clay,  director  of  residential  services 

Gail  A.  Hayes,  budget  coordinator  and 
administrative  secretary,  Provost's  Office 

Christopher  S.  Jachimowicz,  assistant  dean 
of  students 

Kristine  M.  Neindorf,  assistant  director  of 
residential  services 


WPI  JOURNAL 


*Vi 


$&$ 


"Hh 


p 


^g^iUlgu^Kgtty^ 


igj/QJMGQm' 


'  *"*C1'  .   '**>;    * 


Without  thinking,  as  we  paused  at  one  of  the  three-dimensional  exhibits, 
I  asked  Dad  the  question  I  always  asked: 

"What's  it  like,  out  in  space?" 

Mother  shot  me  a  frightened  glance.  It  was  too  late. 

Dad  stood  there  for  a  hill  half  minute  trying  to  find  an  answer, 
then  he  shrugged. 

"It's  the  best  thing  in  a  lifetime  of  best  things." 
—  From  The  Rocket  Man,  by  Ray  Bradbury 

As  he  stepped  out  of  the  silver  NASA  van  onto  the  rain- 
slicked  apron  by  Launch  Pad  39B,  Al  Sacco  Jr.  looked  out 
on  a  spectacular  site.  Rising  240  feet  atop  the  huge  octag- 
onal pad,  space  shuttle  Columbia  seemed  to  have  come  alive. 

Its  giant  orange  fuel  tank  burgeoning  with  supercold  liquid  hydrogen  and 
oxygen,  the  shuttle  hissed  and  spit  and  exhaled  cold  jets  of  billowing  vapor. 
Metal  creaked  and  groaned.  Valves  opened  and  shut  with  resounding  clanks 
and  bangs.  Machinery  on  the  spindly  gantries  buzzed  and  hummed.  And  in 
the  middle  of  it  all,  the  gleaming 
white  skin  of  the  orbiter  blazed 
in  the  brilliant  light  from  xenon 
spotlights,  seeming  to  inhale  and 
exhale  as  the  shadows  of  the  vapor 
clouds  played  across  it. 

It  wasOct.  20,  1995— just 
before  7  a.m.  at  the  Kennedy  Space 

Center  in  Florida.  Sacco  and  the  six  other  members  of  the  crew  of  STS-73 
were  about  to  board  Columbia  for  the  seventh  attempt  to  launch  into  orbit 
the  second  United  States  Microgravity  Laboratory.  As  one  of  two  payload 
specialists  on  the  mission,  Sacco  would  spend  16  days  inside  the  lab  con- 
ducting science  in  the  microgravity  environment  of  space.  But  right  now, 
his  mind  was  on  the  beautiful  view  before  him  and  on  the  incredibly  dan- 
gerous thing  he  was  about  to  do. 

Strapped  tightly  into  a  seat  in  the  orbiter's  middeck,  Sacco  would  be 
propelled  at  speeds  nearing  six  miles  a  second,  riding  on  rocket  engines 
capable  of  cranking  out  nearly  seven  and  a  half  million  pounds  of  thrust, 
into  a  world  without  air  and  where  a  collision  with  a  bit  of  space  junk  could 
result  in  instant  obliteration.  But  he  was  also  about  to  realize  the  dream  of 
a  lifetime:  to  go  where  only  326  other  human  beings  have  gone  before  and 
to  see  the  Earth,  the  universe — and  his  own  life — from  the  vantage  point  of 
150  nautical  miles  up.  It  was  an  experience  that  would  change  him  forever. 


Al  Sacco's  voyage  into  space  began  more  than  three  decades  ago  in  Bel- 
mont, Mass.  The  son  of  a  former  professional  boxer  and  successful  restau- 
rant owner,  Sacco  grew  up  in  a  tight-knit  Italian-American  family  that 
believed  in  hard  work.  Sacco  did  work  hard — in  school,  on  the  athletic  field 
at  Belmont  High  School,  and  in  Mario's,  his  father's  restaurant — all  the 
while  eagerly  following  the  Space  Race  and  dreaming  of  one  day  becoming 
an  astronaut  himself. 

He  studied  chemical  engineering  at  Northeastern  University  and  went 
on  to  earn  a  Ph.D.  in  the  same  discipline  at  MIT.  With  a  NASA  grant,  he 
designed  a  regenerative  life-support  system  to  convert  metabolic  carbon 
dioxide  from  the  air  inside  spacecraft  to  water.  In  1976  he  submitted  his 
application  to  the  astronaut  corps,  but  was  turned  down.  Assuming  his  dream 
of  spaceflight  was  at  an  end,  he  joined  the  faculty  at  WPI,  where  he  is  now, 
18  years  later,  head  of  the  Chemical  Engineering  Department. 

In  1983,  a  conversation  with  a  fellow  faculty  member  started  Sacco 
down  a  new  path  that  would  ultimately  take  him  to  that  rainy  October 

(Continued  on  page  14) 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


Last  fall,  Al  Sacco  realized 
his  lifelong  dream  to  fly  in 
space.  He  says  being  in 
orbit  felt  so  natural  he 
became  convinced  that  it  is 
his  destiny-and  mankind's- 
to  live  among  the  stars. 
That  conviction  made 
returning  to  Earth  all  the 
more 


WPI  Journal 


The  Case  of  the  Pur 


By  Joan  Killough-Miller 

THE  NEWS  was  broken  at  halftime  of  the  Homecoming  game 
last  fall:  "The  Class  of  '96  has  the  goat!"  A  few  brazen  seniors 
bearing  a  hand-painted  banner  raced  across  Alumni  Field  in  the 
middle  ot  the  singing  of  the  alma  mater.  Their  unexpected  announce- 
ment reignited  the  century-old  Goat's  Head  competition,  which  had 
been  dormant  for  decades. 

Spectators  who  turned  in  time  caught  a  glimpse  of  the  bronze  tro- 
phy, which  was  briefly  held  aloft.  But  just  as  quickly  as  it  appeared,  the 
goat  was  tossed  over  two  fences  to  a  waiting  senior,  who  spirited  it 
across  Institute  Road  and  back  into  seclusion. 

The  Goat's  Head  is  finally  back,  after  years  of  work  by  more  indi- 
viduals and  campus  groups  than  can  be  named  here.  Lisa  Hastings,  for- 
mer director  of  young  alumni  programs,  says  the  movement  evolved 
from  the  rebirth  of  the  Student  Alumni  Society  in  the  early  1990s. 

"Reviving  traditions  was  the  issue  around  which  SAS  was  rebuilt," 
says  Hastings,  who  is  now  director  of  development  at  Harvard  Univer- 
sity's Arnold  Arboretum.  Students  produced  a  new  version  of  the  Tech 
Bible,  a  handbook  for  freshmen  first  published  in  1897,  and  established 
Traditions  Day  in  1991  to  educate  the  WPI  community  about  its  her- 
itage. Class  rivalry  events,  including  the  Pennant  Rush  and  the  alma 
mater  singing  contest,  have  also  been  reinstated. 

The  most  celebrated  rivalry  in  WPI  lore  is  the  competition  to 
acquire  and  hold  the  Goat's  Head  for  one's  class.  The  contest  original- 
ly involved  the  preserved  head  of  an  actual  goat,  but  when  the  stuffed 
trophy  grew  too  fragile,  it  was  replaced  by  a  bronze  statue  in  1926  (see 
the  story  on  page  24  for  more  on  the  history  of  the  Goat's  Head  and 
the  story  of  Gompei  Kuwada,*  the  original  goat  keeper).  After  the 
1950s,  the  Goat's  Head  tradition  waned  and  the  bronze  goat  was  rele- 
gated to  a  shelf  in  the  WPI  archives,  to  be  brought  out  occasionally  for 
display  at  alumni  functions. 

With  the  revival  of  enthusiasm  for  WPI's  traditions  in  the  1990s, 
interest  naturally  turned  to  the  Goat's  Head.  By  then  the  1926  goat 
was  deemed  too  valuable  to  again  serve  as  a  trophy  in  a  student  com- 
petition. So  a  group  of  students  approached  the  Executive  Commit- 
tee of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  in  1993  requesting  funding  for 
a  new  statue.  The  request  was  approved,  casting  arrangements  were 
made  (see  box,  page  23),  and  the  Goat's  Head  Committee  was 
formed  to  draft  a  new  set  of  rules  for  the  class  competition. 

In  the  fall  of  1995,  the  bronze  replica  was  finally  ready.  Then 
a  new  question  arose:  how,  exactly,  should  the  Goat  be  put  back 
into  play?  The  SAS  debated  the  issue  and  decided  to  hand  the  new 
Goat's  Head  over  to  the  Class  of  1997,  on  the  grounds  that  the  class 
had  won  more  rivalry  events  than  any  other  class  during  its  sopho- 
more year.  The  presentation  would  be  made  at  a  ceremony  during 
Homecoming  in  September  1995. 

Not  all  students  were  satisfied  with  that  decision.  A  group  of  dis- 
gruntled seniors  gathered  after  the  meeting,  aggrieved  that  their  efforts 

(Continued  on  page  23) 


"According  to  WPI  archivist  Lora  Brueck,  WPI's  records  are  inconsistent  as  to  the  correct 
spelling  of  Mr.  Kuwada's  first  name.  Records  from  his  student  days  show  it  consistently 
as  Gumpei.  In  later  years,  he  signed  letters  to  the  Alumni  Office,  Gompei  Kuwada,  yet  a 
business  card  from  the  same  period  lists  it  as  Gumpei.  From  about  1920  on,  all  WPI  docu- 
ments spelled  it  Gompei.  In  this  issue  we  have  chosen  to  use  this  more  familiar  moniker. 


8 


Winter  1996 


lehwoilBbhw 


oined  Goat's  Head 


For  more  than  a  century  the  Goat's  Head  has  been  WPI's  Maltese 
Falcon— an  object  of  unbridled  desire  and  elaborate  schemes. 
The  class  that  grabs  it  lays  claim,  not  only  to  bragging 
rights  over  every  other  class,  but  to  a  rich 
WPI  tradition. 


PPUBBHH 


WPI  Journal 


A 


roi 
1 1  11 


In  the  increasingly  high-tech  world  of  the  theater,  professionals 
who  are  well  versed  in  the  dramatic  arts  and  modern  technology 
are  in  great  demand.  To  meet  this  need,  an  innovative  new 
program  at  WPI  is  preparing  students  for  careers  in  the 
emerging  field  of  theater  technology. 


i 
i 


By  Amy  L.  Plack  '96 


echnology  has  always  been  an 
integral  part  of  the  theater. 
Through  the  centuries,  machines, 
gadgets  and  ingenious  contri- 
vances of  all  sorts  have  been  employed  to 
engineer  the  illusions  that  are  so  impor- 
tant to  live  drama  and  to  create  stage- 
bound  worlds  for  actors  to  inhabit. 

During  the  last  few  decades,  the 
world  of  theater  technology  has  been 
growing  increasingly  sophisticated  as 
producers  like  Andrew  Lloyd  Webber 
have  engineered  extravaganzas  in  which 
elaborate  mechanical  sets,  spectacular 
lighting  and  sound,  and  eye-popping 
special  effects  often  upstage  the  big- 
name  stars.  In  this  new  era  of  the  per- 
forming arts,  professionals  who  under- 
stand both  theater  and  modern  technol- 
ogy are  in  great  demand,  according  to 
Susan  Vick,  professor  of  drama/theater  at 
WPI  and  director  of  the  Institute's  new 
Theater  and  Technology  program. 

"The  world  of  the  theater  is  chang- 
ing," says  Vick,  who  is  serving  this  year  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Drama  League,  the  nation's  oldest 
theater  organization.  "People  who  are  well  versed 
in  leading-edge  technology  are  becoming  critical 
to  the  success  of  modern  theater  productions.  For 
example,  when  shows  like  Phantom  of  the  Opera 


tour,  there  is  often  only  one  backstage  person  who 
goes  along,  and  that's  the  computer  guy." 

In  fact,  computers  are  everywhere  in  the  the- 
ater today.  Scenery  is  often  designed  and  modeled 
using  computer-aided  design  software.  Computers 
control  the  lighting  boards  and  sound  systems, 
enabling  designers  to  create  complicated  effects 
never  dreamed  possible.  Costume  designers  try 
out  possibilities  on  the  computer  screen  before 
they  sew  a  stitch.  And  scripts  are  likely  to  be  writ- 
ten, edited  and  customized  for  use  by  actors, 
directors  and  technicians  with  the  help  of  comput- 
erized word  processing  packages.  In  short,  mod- 
ern computer  technology  is  becoming  as  impor- 
tant to  the  theater  as  it  is  to  virtually  every  other 
business  and  industry. 

Theater  technology  differs  from  the  more 
traditional  field  of  technical  theater,  Vick  says. 
"Technical  theater  deals  with  the  way  certain  tech- 
nical things  are  done  in  the  theater — for  example, 
how  one  builds  flats,"  she  says.  "Theater  technol- 
ogy is  a  more  contemporary  term  that  encompasses 
technology  of  all  sorts  that  supports  the  theater 
performance.  There  is  an  emphasis  on  emerging 
technologies,  like  computer-aided  design,  that 
work  to  create,  build  and  enhance  theater  and  to 
expand  the  bounds  of  what  constitutes  theater." 

Currently,  the  best  way  to  prepare  for  a  career 
in  theater  technology  is  to  complete  an  under- 
graduate degree  program  in  a  field  of  engineering, 


10 


Winter  1996 


liil 


and  then  go  on  to  do  graduate  work  in  theater. 
"A  technically  oriented  theater  professional  must 
not  only  be  expert  in  the  nuts  and  bolts  of  the 
technology  itself,  but  understand  drama  and  be 
familiar  with  the  literature  of  the  stage.  That's  a 
combination  you  simply  can't  get  through  most 
undergraduate  engineering  programs." 

But  thanks  to  a  new  curriculum  within  the 
Department  of  Humanities  and  Arts,  it  is  a  com- 
bination you  can  get  now  at  WPI.  The  new  pro- 
gram, unique  among  undergraduate  offerings  in 
the  U.S.,  according  to  Vick,  enables  students  to 
blend  their  engineering  knowledge  with  their  love 
for  the  performing  arts  by  earning  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  the  humanities  and  arts  with  a 
tocus  in  theater  technology7,  or  by  completing  a 
double  major  program,  with  one  major  in  a  field 
of  technology,  such  as  computer  science,  electrical 
and  computer  engineering,  or  mechanical  engi- 
neering, and  the  second  major  in  the  humanities 
and  arts. 

Vick  says  students  may  also  pursue  an  individ- 
ually designed  major  in  Theater  and  Technology, 
an  option  that  appeared  for  the  first  time  in  this 
year's  undergraduate  catalog.  This  program  draws 
heavily  on  an  Interactive  Qualifying  Project,  "The 
Design  of  WTFs  Theater  Technology  Program," 
completed  by  Melissa  LaGreca  '97,  and  takes 
advantage  of  the  wide  range  of  existing  courses  at 
WTI  in  engineering,  design,  mathematics,  sci- 

WPI  Journal 


I 


ence,  and  the  humanities  and  arts. 

In  addition  to  their  technical  and  theater 
course  work,  students  in  the  Theater  Technology 
program  frequently  have  opportunities  to  learn 
about  theater  technology  from  working  profes- 
sionals. Last  fall,  for  example,  Robert  Webb, 
technical  director  of  the  Huntington  Theatre 
Company  in  Boston,  conducted  a  seven-week 
seminar  that  introduced  students  to  basic  ele- 
ments of  designing  for  the  theater.  In  the  lab, 
Webb,  a  specialist  in  drafting  and  design,  rigging, 
working  with  foams  and  plastics,  and  other  types 
of  theater  technology,  covered  everything  from 
counterweight  fly  systems  to  stage  construction  to 
lighting  design  to  materials  used  in  scenic  design. 

Last  fall  also  saw  visits  from  professional 
scenic  designer  Brigitte  Altenhouse,  who  conduct- 
ed a  workshop  for  students,  and  the  Clyde  Unity 
Theatre  troupe  of  Glasgow,  Scotland,  which 
mounted  a  performance  of  John  Binnie's.-/  Little 
Older  at  WTI  in  October  and  then  conducted  a 
workshop  in  theater  and  theater  technology  for 
WTI  students.  The  company,  considered  Scot- 
land's most  exciting  new  theater  group,  has 
offered  workshops  on  three  continents. 

Hands-on  workshops  with  theater  profession- 
als give  students  the  opportunity  to  get  a  taste  of 
how  design  is  done  in  the  real  world  of  professional 
theater,  Vick  says.  Another  way  to  get  that  first- 

(Continued  on  page  26) 


11 


NEIL  NORUM 

Opposite  page,  top, 
Stephen  Richardson 
'97,  audio  technician 
for  last  fall's  production 
of  Henry  V,  works  the 
audio  boards.  Bottom, 
fly  operator  Jedidiah 
Miller  '97,  left,  and  set 
designer  Noah  Weis- 
leder  '96  confer  back- 
stage during  a  techni- 
cal rehearsal. 


IPUggs 


4r 


In  1946  Joe  Gale  continued  a  family 

tradition  and  ca?ne  to  work  fir  WPI. 

Haifa  century  later,  he's  still  here. 

For  50  years — in  the  classroom,  in  the 

shop,  in  the  press  box,  and  in  countless 

locales  in  between — hes  touched 

thousands  of  lives  and  built  a 

treasure  trove  of  memories. 


By  Ray  Bert  '93 


oe  ( rale  stepped  <>()  a  boat  in  early  February  1946,  setting  down 
onto  American  soil  again  for  good  after  a  four-year  hitch  in  the 
Army  during  World  War  II.  Returning  home  to  his  native 
Worcester,  Joe  was  informed  of  the  following  conversation  that 
had  taken  place  between  his  father,  John  Gale,  and  A.J.  Knight,  then 
the  superintendent  of  buildings  and  grounds  at  WPI  and  the  future 
namesake  of  one  of  its  athletic  fields: 

Knight:  When'sjoe  getting  out  of  the  service? 

Gale:  Feb.  6th. 

Knight:  When  he  gets  home,  tell  him  to  take  a  few  days  off  and 

then  get  his  butt  in  here  to  work. 

On  Feb.  25,  1946,  19  days  after  his  discharge  from  the  Army,  Joe  Gale 
began  work  as  an  employee  of  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Fifty  years  later,  that  relationship 
and  so  much  more  are 
still  going  strong. 


To  call  Joe  Gale  a  fixture  at  WPI, 
while  accurate,  doesn't  do  the  man  justice.  He's 
a  living,  breathing  part  of  the  fabric  of  the  institution — 
a  human  timeline  of  WPI's  recent  history.  In  his  50  years  on  campus 
(longer  than  most  of  the  Institute's  living  alumni  have  been  around) 
Joe  has  witnessed  more  growth  and  change,  known  more  people,  and 
touched  more  lives  than  perhaps  anyone  else  in  the  Institute's  history. 

But  to  get  a  true  sense  of  who  Joe  Gale  is,  don't  look  for  pivotal, 
life-shaping  events.  Joe's  life  is  more  accurately  represented  by  the  piles 
upon  piles  of  small  events,  conversations  and  memories  that  live  on  in 
his  mind  and  in  the  minds  of  those  who  have  known  him.  Put  together, 
they  form  a  remarkably  consistent  picture  of  a  man  who,  through  ges- 
tures large  and  small,  and  through  the  overwhelming  force  of  his  warm 
and  hard-working  nature,  has  won  over  generations  of  WPI  students, 
faculty  and  staff. 

Editor's  NOTE:  /;/  a  typical  profile,  this  is  where  the  author  would 
begin  referring  to  the  subject  by  his  last  name.  But  "Gale"  doesn't  seem  right 
here.  Wlnle  "Mr.  Gale  "  is  appropriate,  given  the  respect  and  esteem  in  which 
John  J. B.  "Joe"  Gale  is  held,  it  is  thoroughly  at  odds  with  his  friendly,  infor- 
mal persona.  Therefore,  we  have  decided  to  simply  use  "Joe." 

Joe  was  accepted  into  the  Army  on  Dec.  10,  1941,  just  three  days 
after  the  Japanese  attacked  Pearl  Harbor.  He  and  one-fifth  of  his  div- 
ision were  selected  for  the  Armored  Board  Test  Operations  unit  at 
Fort  Knox,  where  Joe  eventually  became  a  shop  foreman.  Scheduled 
to  travel  to  Europe  in  1945  to  instruct  soldiers  in  the  use  of  the  first 
mechanized  flame  throwers,  Joe  received  new  orders  as  the  war  in 
Europe  ended. 

"The  flamethrowers  were  mounted  on  tanks  with  500  gallons  of 
napalm  for  each,"  Joe  recalls.  With  just  a  hint  of  a  boyish  fascination 
for  things  powerful  and  destructive,  he  adds,  "They  sent  me  to  ESSO 
Labs  to  learn  to  operate  them — you  could  get  about  200  yards  out  of 
them!  They  were  never  used,  though." 

(Continued  on  page  28) 


WPI  Journal 


13 


[Before  a  launch 

attempt]  "yon  fd  get 

up  in  the  morning 

and  start  trying  to 

make  peace  with 

yourself,  knowing 

that  in  a  few  hours 

you  might  not  be 
around  anymore. " 


Coming  Home 

(Continued  from  page  7) 

morning  in  Florida.  The  late  Len  Sand,  a  chem- 
ical engineering  professor  and  renowned  expert 
on  zeolites,  convinced  Sacco  to  think  about  the 
microgravity  of  space  as  a  possible  breeding 
ground  for  large  and  highly  valuable  versions  of 
these  aluminum  and  silicon  crystals,  which  are 
used  as  sieves  and  catalysts  in  many  industries — 
especially  petroleum  refining. 

From  that  conversation  came 
a  student-built  experiment  that 
flew  into  space  as  part  of  a  pack- 
age of  WPI  experiments  in  1990. 
That  experiment  led,  in  turn,  to 
a  major  space-based  zeolite  re- 
search program,  supported  by 
NASA  and  Battelle  Advanced 
Materials  Center,  that  flew  an 
experiment  on  the  first  United 
States  Microgravity  Laboratory  in 
1992.  As  that  experiment  was  in 
development,  Sacco  learned  that 
NASA  needed  two  payload  spe- 
cialists for  the  mission — scientists 
who  would  train  to  be  astronauts 
and  then  carry  out  a  host  of  scien- 
tific experiments  in  orbit. 

Sacco  was  one  of  four  scien- 
tists ultimately  chosen  to  compete 
for  the  two  flight  slots.  He  spent 
more  than  a  year  in  training  only 
to  learn  that  he  would  be  a  stand- 
by. Devastated,  he  carried  out  the  duties  of  an 
alternate  payload  specialist  during  the  USML-1 
mission,  which  included  working  long  shifts  at  the 
Marshall  Space  Flight  Center  in  Alabama  as  the 
primary  communication  link  with  the  astronauts 
orbiting  overhead.  After  the  shuttle  landed,  he 
returned  to  Worcester,  an  exhausted  and  emo- 
tionally drained  almost-astronaut. 

"We  live  in  a  success-oriented  society,"  he 
says.  "The  fact  that  you  train  to  be  an  astronaut 
and  do  everything  the  other  crew  members  do 
means  nothing  if  you  don't  fly.  I  could  see  that  in 
people's  faces  when  Fd  give  talks.  They'd  ask  me 
what  it  was  like  in  space,  and  Fd  tell  them  I  hadn't 
been  there.  You  could  see  their  faces  sink.  It  made 
me  feel  crummy." 

A  few  years  later,  NASA  began  gearing  up  for 
a  second  USML  mission,  and  once  again  the  call 
went  out  for  payload  specialists.  Sacco's  name  was 
submitted  and,  out  of  the  thousands  of  candidates, 
he  was  chosen  to  be  part  of  a  pool  of  fewer  than 
1 5  contenders.  As  before,  he  was  grilled  by  a  panel 
of  science  experts,  who  narrowed  the  field  to  six. 
Then  Sacco  underwent  a  battery  ol  physical  tests, 
made  a  presentation  to  a  NASA  review  panel 
about  why  he  thought  he  should  be  chosen,  and 
submitted  to  an  FBI  background  check  before 


returning  to  Worcester  to  await  the  verdict,  hop- 
ing his  expertise  and  his  experience  with  the  first 
USML  mission  would  make  a  difference. 

They  call  them  flashbulb  memories — moments 
so  powerful  they  become  permanently  seared 
into  our  brain  tissue.  For  some,  they  include 
the  day  John  F.  Kennedy  was  shot,  or  the  morn- 
ing Challenger  blew  up.  For  Al  Sacco,  the  flash- 
bulb exploded  the  day  he  got  "The  Call." 

He  was  sitting  in  the  family  room  of  his  home 
in  Holden,  Mass.,  with  his  wife,  Terri,  watching  a 
rerun  of  an  old  Star  Trek  episode.  As  the  Enterprise 
and  its  crew  boldly  slipped  among  the  stars,  the 
phone  rang.  It  was  Kathy  Thornton,  the  astronaut 
best  known  as  a  member  of  the  crew  of  space  walk- 
ers who  helped  repair  the  nearsighted  Hubble  tele- 
scope. "I  didn't  know  Kathy,"  Sacco  says,  "but  Fd 
read  that  she'd  been  chosen  to  be  payload  com- 
mander for  the  USML-2  mission.  So  I  knew  this 
was  going  to  be  very  good  or  very  bad  news." 

Getting  right  to  the  point,  Thornton  said  sim- 
ply, "Al,  welcome  to  the  USML-2  crew.  You've 
been  selected  to  fly."  Sacco  was  elated.  The  official 
announcement  of  his  selection  came  two  weeks  lat- 
er, and  then  in  the  spring  of  1994,  he  began  the 
lengthy  process  of  training.  For  18  months,  he 
learned  everything  he  could  about  the  20  experi- 
ments slated  to  fly  on  USML-2.  And  he  learned, 
once  again,  how  to  be  an  astronaut — how  to  pre- 
pare for  the  rigors  of  launch  and  reentry,  how  to 
eat,  sleep  and  go  to  the  bathroom  in  microgravity, 
what  to  do  in  the  case  of  innumerable  problems 
and  malfunctions  that  might  occur  on  the  orbiter, 
and  how  to  survive  (or  at  least  attempt  to  survive) 
die  truly  serious  malfunctions  that  can  threaten  the 
survival  of  the  shuttle  and  its  crew. 

Sacco  says  the  training  was  easier  this  time 
around  because  he  had  been  through  it  before  and 
because  there  would  be  a  ride  into  space  at  the 
end  of  it  all.  But  the  thrill  of  being  a  payload  spe- 
cialist, and  not  an  alternate,  also  brought  with  it  a 
tremendous  weight  of  responsibility.  "The  hardest 
part  of  the  mission  was  worrying  about  whether  I 
was  going  to  screw  up  somebody's  experiment," 
he  says.  "Some  experimenters  had  worked  10 
years  to  get  on  the  shuttle.  They  were  going  to 
have  two  or  three  days  of  my  time.  If  I  messed  up, 
God  knows  when  they'd  get  to  fly  again." 

Despite  the  pressure,  Sacco  says  he  thorough- 
ly enjoyed  the  launch  preparations,  in  large  part 
because  of  the  chemistry  of  the  USML-2  crew. 
There  was  Thornton,  a  veteran  of  three  space 
flights  who  holds  master's  and  doctoral  degrees 
in  physics;  mission  specialist  Catherine  "Cady" 
Coleman,  making  her  first  shuttle  flight,  who 
holds  a  doctorate  in  polymer  science  and  engi- 
neering; Navy  Lieutenant  Commander  Michael 
Lopez-Alegria,  on  his  first  flight,  who  holds  a 
master's  in  aeronautical  engineering;  Navy  Com- 
mander Kent  Rominger,  the  orbiter  pilot,  also 


14 


Winter  1996 


making  his  first  flight,  who  has  a  master's  in  aero- 
nautical engineering;  Navy  Commander  Ken 
Bowersox,  orbiter  commander  and  veteran  of 
three  flights,  who  has  a  master's  in  mechanical 
engineering;  and  Sacco's  fellow  payload  specialist 
Fred  Leslie,  a  NASA  research  scientist  with  a 
Ph.D.  in  meteorology. 

"We  just  had  one  of  those  mixes,"  Sacco  says. 
"We  were  a  group  of  people  who  really  gelled." 

The  space  shuttle  Columbia  has  a  number  of 
distinctions.  It  was  the  first  operational  shut- 
tle in  NASA's  fleet,  kicking  the  shuttle  pro- 
gram off  with  its  first  flight  in  1981.  In  the  17 
trips  into  space  it  had  made  prior  to  USML-2 
(constituting  2,500  orbits  and  64  million  miles),  it 
had  developed  a  reputation  as  a  reliable  vehicle  in 
orbit.  But  it  also  can  be  tough  to  get  off  the  pad. 
In  fact,  it  holds  the  record  for  the  most  consecu- 
tive launch  cancellations.  During  the  USML-2 
mission,  it  would  come  within  a  hair's  breadth  of 
breaking  that  record. 

Due  to  mechanical  problems,  computer 
glitches  and  bad  weather  (including  a  visit  by 
hurricane  Opal),  the  launch  of  STS-73  would 
ultimately  be  delayed  six  times,  enough  to  tie 
Columbia's  record.  For  the  crew,  the  delavs  took 
a  mental  toll.  "You'd  get  up  in  the  morning  and 
start  trying  to  make  peace  with  yourself,  knowing 
that  in  a  few  hours  you  might  not  be  around  any- 
more," Sacco  says.  "You'd  get  psyched  up  to  do 
something  just  to  have  them  say,  'We're  cancel- 
ing— see  you  next  week.'  I  would  feel  devastating 
disappointment,  tempered  by  a  feeling  of  relief 
that,  'Geez,  I've  got  a  little  more  time." 

By  NASA  protocol,  astronauts  must  go  into 
quarantine  seven  to  10  days  before  a  flight  to  min- 
imize the  risk  of  catching  something  that  might  be 
a  problem  in  orbit.  By  the  time  Columbia  finally 
flew,  the  quarantine  for  the  STS-73  crew  had 
stretched  to  34  days.  "I  only  got  to  see  my  wife  in 
certain  areas,  most  of  the  time,"  Sacco  says.  "1 
never  got  to  see  my  sons,  my  daughters  or  my 
granddaughter.  They  did  let  us  go  home  for  12- 


hour  periods  as  the  delays  continued.  But  1  think 
the  experience  was  more  trying  for  people  on  the 
outside  than  it  was  for  me.  I  had  the  benefit  of 
being  part  of  an  outstanding  crew.  They  were  my 
family,  too.  We  would  commiserate  together, 
laugh  together,  cry  together." 

They  also  played  together.  Sacco  says  he  and 
the  other  Columbia  astronauts  passed  the  time 
between  launch  attempts  shooting  skeet,  riding 
all-terrain  vehicles  through  the  Florida  swamps, 
and  doing  acrobatic  maneuvers  in  T-38  jets  out 
over  the  deep  blue  waters  of  the  Atlantic.  "I  got  in 
between  10  and  15  hours  in  high-performance  air- 
craft over  the  course  of  that  month — that's  a  lot," 
he  says.  "I  had  a  ball." 

The  seventh  launch  attempt  was  set  for 
Thursday,  Oct.  20.  As  Sacco  and  the  other  crew 
members  arose  at  3:30  a.m.,  the  prospect  for  a 
launch  seemed  dim.  The  weather  was  rainy  and 
the  forecast  offered  little  hope  for  clear  skies. 
Sacco  showered  and  pulled  on  a  pair  of  slacks  and 
a  dark  blue  shirt  with  the  USML-2  patch  over  the 
pocket — the  uniform  the  crew  had  agreed  to  wear 
that  morning.  He  opened  the  door  to  his  room 
just  before  4  a.m.  and  stepped  into  the  hall  as 
Kathv  Thornton  was  leaving  her  room.  "Well, 
Al,"  she  said.  "I  think  we're  going  today." 

Preparations  for  the  launch  of  a  U.S.  manned 
spacecraft  have  always  been  a  mix  of  public 
and  private  rituals.  The  first  public  event 
that  morning  was  the  astronauts'  breakfast.  The 
crew  sat  around  a  large  table  and  chatted  with 
reporters  as  breakfast  was  brought  out.  Once 
upon  a  time,  astronauts  ate  steak  and  eggs  on 
launch  morning,  but  that  tradition  was  largely  left 
behind  before  the  dawn  of  the  shuttle  program. 
On  diis  morning,  no  one  ate  steak  and  eggs.  In 
fact,  no  one  ate  much  of  anything.  Most  of  the 
crew  was  following  what  came  to  be  called  the 
"Thornton  Protocol." 

Sacco  says  astronauts  can  spend  up  to  six  hours 
strapped  into  the  shuttle  before  a  launch.  Antici- 

(Continued  on  page  1 7) 


"I  had  the  benefit 
of  being  part  of  an 
outstanding  crew. 
They  were  my 
family,  too.  We 
would  commiserate 
together,  laugh 
together,  ay 
together. " 


i 


WPI  Journal 


15 


COROLLARY 


The  Z  Team 


While  Al  Sacco 
was  entering  the 
annals  of  space 
lore  150  miles  above  the 
Earth  in  Columbia,  WPFs 
Zeolite  Crystal  Growth 
(ZCG)  research  team  was 
making  its  own  kind  ot  space 
history  on  the  ground  at  the 
Kennedy  Space  Center. 

The  team  included  Nur- 
can  Bac,  visiting  professor  of 
chemical  engineering  and 
leader  of  the  ZCG  launch 
preparation  team;  Giacomo 
"Jack"  Ferrarojr.,  principal 
lab  machinist  for  the  Chem- 
istry and  Chemical  Engineer- 
ing departments  and  hardware  specialist  for 
the  ZCG  experiment;  postdoctoral  fellow 
Juliusz  Warzywoda,  synthesis  expert;  gradu- 
ate student  Ipek  Guray;  and  chemical  engi- 
neering majors  Michelle  Marceau  '97  and 
Terri  Sacco  '97  (Al's  daughter).  Al  Sacco 
was  principal  investigator  for  the  experi- 
ment, and  Lisa  McCauley  at  Battelle  was  in 
charge  of  integrating  the  space  hardware. 
Battelle  technician  Robert  Whitmore  and 
postdoctoral  fellow  Eric  Coker,  working  for 
the  European  Space  Agency  (ESA)  in  Delft, 
Netherlands,  assisted  with  the  hardware. 

The  launch  team  members  were  respon- 
sible for  preparing  the  solutions  and  auto- 
claves that  would  be  used  in  the  ZCG  exper- 
iment on  USML-2.  It  was  also  the  team's 
job  to  monitor  the  progress  of  the  space 
experiment  and  to  run  a  duplicate  control 
experiment  back  in  the  lab  at  WPI.  Accord- 
ing to  Bac  and  Ferraro,  they  also  saw  as  part 
of  their  mission  offering  moral  support  to 
Sacco  and  the  rest  of  the  STS-73  crew.  This 
pursuit  would  take  them  where  no  ordinary 
Space  Center  visitors  had  ever  been  before, 
according  to  Ferraro. 

"Before  a  mission,  the  astronauts  fly  into 
Kennedy  in  T-38s,"  he  says.  "Normally, 
only  members  of  the  media  are  allowed  to 
be  there  when  they  land.  But  Lisa  McCauley 
is  a  friend  of  the  head  of  public  relations  at 
Kennedy,  and  she  was  able  to  get  permission 
for  us  to  be  there  when  the  STS-73  crew 
flew  in,  as  long  as  we  stayed  in  one  spot  and 
didn't  talk  to  anybody.  Well,  of  course,  we 
brought  along  some  big  signs  saying,  'The 
ZCG  Team  Welcomes  STS-73  Crew,'  and 
we  waved  and  jumped  up  and  down  and 
yelled  as  the  crew  arrived.  The  media 
noticed  and  started  taking  pictures  of  us." 


Oct.  5.  It  would  be  the  first  of 
three  times  they  would  have 
to  prepare  new  solutions  for 
the  flight.  For  two  longer 
delays,  as  many  as  half  of  the 
autoclaves  had  to  be  emptied, 
chemically  cleaned  (a  three- 
day  process)  and  filled  with 
fresh  solutions.  By  the  time 
Columbia  finally  flew  on  Oct. 
20,  the  team  was  running 
dangerously  low  on  supplies. 
"If  the  flight  had  been  delayed 
again,  we'd  have  had  nothing 
left,"  Ferraro  says. 

After  the  Oct.  20  launch, 
Bac  and  Warzywoda  flew  to 
Huntsville,  Ala.,  to  man  the 
NASA  must  have  been  pleased  with  the       ZCG  experiment  console  at  NASA's  Space- 
results,  Bac  says.  "We've  heard  that  they  are      lab  Operations  Center.  The  rest  of  the 


With  the  ZCG  furnace,  from  left,  Ferraro,  Sacco,  Marceau, 
Warzywoda,  Guray,  Bac  and  Coker. 


thinking  of  changing  their  policy  and  invit- 
ing people  other  than  the  media  to  attend 
the  crew  arrival  events  now." 

The  team's  desire  to  reach  out  to  the 
Columbia  astronauts  got  Ferraro  in  trouble 
one  morning,  however.  Knowing  that  the 
astronauts  would  be  walking  out  of  the 
Operations  and  Checkout  (O&C)  Building 
to  begin  their  trip  to  the  launch  pad,  the 
team  members  decided  that  Ferraro  should 
drive  their  rental  truck,  adorned  with  a  large 
sign  reading,  "STS-73:  Take  Us  With  You," 
to  the  back  of  the  building  where  the  shuttle 
crew  could  see  it.  As  he  neared  the  building, 
Ferraro  was  surrounded  by  police  cruisers 
from  NASA's  security  forces.  He  stopped 
the  truck,  and  got  out  with  his  hands  in  the 


research  team  returned  to  Worcester  to  set 
up  the  lab  to  run  the  duplicate  experiment. 
On  Nov.  5,  Columbia  returned  to  Earth. 
Bac  met  with  Sacco  a  few  hours  after  the 
landing  and  retrieved  the  autoclaves  to  bring 
back  to  WPI  for  analysis.  He  and  Ferraro 
say  the  preliminary  examination  of  the 
crystals  grown  in  orbit  show  that  the  experi- 
ment was  a  tremendous  success.  On  its  two 
previous  trips  into  space  (including  its  debut 
flight  on  the  first  USML  mission  in  1992), 
WPI's  experiment  had  produced  some  of 
the  largest  zeolites  grown.  This  mission 
topped  those  results,  producing  crystals 
between  280  and  300  microns  wide  (com- 
mercially grown  crystals  are  typically  about 
2  microns,  while  the  largest  crystals  the 


air.  "They  brought  out  a  bomb-sniffing  dog      ZCG  team  had  previously  grown  in  space 


and  went  all  through  the  truck,"  he  says. 

The  ZCG  team  arrived  in  Florida  in  late 
September  to  set  up  a  laboratory  in  the 
O&C  Building,  where  they  would  prepare 
a  variety  of  zeolite  solutions  to  go  into  the 
44  metal  and  16  clear  acrylic  autoclaves  that 
would  fly  in  USML-2.  The  metal  autoclaves 
would  be  heated  for  nearly  13  days  in  a  fur- 
nace on  the  middeck,  while  the  clear  units 
would  be  used  to  test  the  mixing  protocol 
for  the  zeolite  solutions.  On  Sept.  26,  after 
a  nearly  12 -hour  work  day,  the  team  handed 
the  autoclaves  over  to  NASA  to  be  stowed  in 
the  shuttle.  But  the  launch  was  scrubbed  the 
following  morning,  and  that  evening  the 
autoclaves  were  returned. 

The  team  refilled  several  autoclaves 


were  about  140  microns).  Crystals  of  this 
size  could  open  the  door  to  new  technol- 
ogies and  applications — and  could  mean 
significant  savings  for  industries  that  use 
zeolites. 

Will  the  ZCG  experiment  fly  again?  Bac 
says  WPI  hopes  to  secure  a  slot  on  another 
shuttle  mission,  or,  barring  that,  a  place  on 
the  International  Space  Station.  The  next 
flight  may  well  be  made  in  collaboration 
with  ESA.  The  ZCG  team  began  a  collabo- 
ration with  ESA  on  USML-2  by  including 
two  zeolite  solutions  prepared  by  ESA 
researchers  in  the  ZCG  furnace.  "Every 
time  we  fly  the  experiment,  we  get  a  better 
idea  of  which  solutions  work  best  and  the 
best  way  to  prepare  them,"  Bac  says.  "We've 
already  had  very  good  results;  I  think  we  can 


containing  solutions  they  thought  might 

go  bad  during  the  delay  and  gave  them  back      do  even  better  on  future  flights." 

to  NASA  in  time  for  the  next  attempt  on 


— MD 


16 


Winter  1996 


Coming  Home 

(Continued  from  page  1 5) 

paring  that  they  may  need  to  urinate  during  that 
time,  they  wear  diapers  under  their  space  suits. 
But  Sacco  says  the  shuttle  seats  place  an  astronaut's 
head  about  six  inches  lower  than  his  body,  which 
can  make  urinating  difficult.  "Kathy  learned  from 
experience  that  if  you  eat  or  drink  anything  on 
launch  morning,  your  bladder  fills  up  and  you  get 
the  worst  case  of  having  to  go  to  the  bathroom 
you've  ever  had,"  he  says.  "This  happened  to  me 
during  the  launch  dress  rehearsal.  I  found  it  impos- 
sible to  go  lying  on  my  back  with  my  head  down. 
It  was  the  worst  six  hours  I  ever  spent." 

The  Thornton  Protocol  calls  for  avoiding 
drinking  for  12  hours  prior  to  launch.  Sacco  says 
it  works.  So  on  the  morning  of  Oct.  20,  he  ate 
onlv  a  handful  of  dry  Cheerios  and  drank  nothing. 

From  the  breakfast  room,  the  astronauts  went 
to  the  suiting-up  area  to  change  out  of  their  casual 
clothes  and  into  the  bright  orange  pressure  suits 
they  would  wear  for  launch  and  re-entry.  Before 
suiting  up,  they  pulled  on  their  LCGs,  or  liquid 
cooling  garments  (essentially  long  underwear  with 
plastic  tubing  stitched  into  it — water  flows 
through  the  tubes  to  keep  the  crew  comfortable 
inside  the  insulated  suits).  Like  warriors  being 
dressed  for  battle,  the  crew  went  before  the  pho- 
tographers once  again  as  technicians  helped  them 
into  their  pressure  suits. 

The  Operations  and  Checkout  Building, 
which  houses  the  crew  facilities,  is  just  a  few  miles 
from  Launch  Pad  39B.  To  get  there,  the  crew  and 
the  suit  technicians  ride  in  streamlined  silver  vans. 
The  image  of  the  astronauts  striding  confidently 
out  of  the  building  to  board  those  vans  has 
become  one  of  the  signatures  of  the  U.S.  space 
program.  But  before  the  STS-73  crew  could  make 
that  walk,  they  had  to  make  a  decision.  Lopez- 
Alegria  had  arranged  for  a  friend  to  make  special 
baseball  caps  for  the  crew.  The  attractive  caps 
featured  "STS-73"  printed  in  gold  against  the 
stars  and  stripes  of  the  U.S.  flag. 

The  crew  agreed  to  wear  the  caps  on  their 
ride  to  the  pad.  Lopez-Alegria  and  Sacco  suggest- 
ed that  everyone  put  them  on  with  the  bills  facing 
backward,  in  the  style  preferred  by  young  people 
today.  Bowersox  objected,  fearing  the  gesture 
could  be  seen  as  frivolous  and  undignified.  The 
crew  lobbied  him  as  they  descended  in  the  eleva- 
tor to  the  vans,  but  he  remained  unconvinced.  Fin- 
ally, they  took  a  vote,  and  at  6:25  a.m.,  the  seven 
emerged  into  the  glare  of  TV  spotlights  and 
strobe  flashes,  smiling  broadly,  waving,  and  sport- 
ing a  look  that  would  go  a  long  way  toward  meet- 
ing a  personal  goal  of  Sacco:  erasing  the  image  of 
scientists  and  engineers  as  staid,  up-tight  geeks. 
"That's  my  son's  favorite  picture  from  the  whole 
mission,"  Sacco  says. 

The  ride  to  the  pad  took  15  minutes.  Police 
cars  escorted  the  caravan  and  a  helicopter  flew 

WPI  Journal 


along  overhead  as  the  vehi- 
cles made  their  way  through 
the  lush  greenery  of  the 
Florida  swamps.  Fmerging 
from  the  vans,  the  crew 
walked  to  the  elevator  that 
would  carr\  them  to  the 
White  Room,  the  small 
enclosure  surrounding  the 
shuttle's  hatch.  The  NASA 
television  feed  would  show 
them  striding  down  the  65- 
foot-Iong  orbital  access  arm 
and  into  the  White  Room 
several  minutes  later,  but 
along  the  way,  there  was  a 
brief  stop  to  make. 

"There  is  a  bathroom  on 
the  195-foot  level,"  Sacco 
says.  "We  all  decided  to  use 
it,  which  required  taking  off 
our  suits.  The  suit  techs 
were  not  happy.  That  was 
the  only  record  we  set  on 
this  mission.  All  seven  of  us 

used  the  bathroom,  got  back  in  our  suits  and  made 
it  to  the  WTiite  Room  with  no  delay  in  the  time- 
line. We  were  really  good  at  getting  in  and  out  of 
those  suits,  having  done  it  so  many  times  before." 

Bowersox,  as  commander,  was  first  to  crawl 
into  Columbia;  Sacco  was  next.  He  pulled  on  his 
Snoopy  cap  (the  white  and  black  cap  with  a  built- 
in  communications  headset  that  astronauts  wear 
under  their  flight  helmets)  and  crawled  through 
the  hatch  into  the  middeck,  a  2,600-cubic-foot 
space  that  serves  as  the  crew's  living  room,  dining 
room,  bedroom  and  bathroom.  He  settled  into  his 
seat  against  the  sleeping  compartments  on  the  far 
wall.  Technicians  helped  him  buckle  and  tighten 
the  lap  belt  and  two  shoulder  harnesses. 

It  took  more  than  two  hours  to  get  the  rest  of 
the  crew  strapped  in:  Rominger,  Lopez-Alegria 
and  Coleman  on  the  flight  deck,  and  Leslie  and 
Thornton  side-by-side  in  the  middeck.  The  hatch 
was  closed  just  after  8  a.m.  and  the  suit  techs 
made  their  way  back  down  to  the  vans.  With  a 
tremendous  bang,  the  cabin  was  pressurized  and 
Columbia  was  ready  for  liftoff. 

Inside  the  shuttle,  tensions  and  spirits  were 
both  high.  The  crew  bantered  over  the  intercom 
and  good-natured  barbs  flew  back  and  forth. 
Sacco  was  kidded  about  a  bet  he'd  made  that  he 
wouldn't  eat  NASA  spaghetti  sauce  in  orbit.  Hav- 
ing grown  up  in  an  Italian  family,  he  knew  good 
tomato  sauce  when  he  tasted  it,  and  the  NASA 
stuff  wasn't  it.  He  didn't  know  that  the  crew  had 
brought  aboard  a  freeze-dried  version  of  his  wife's 
sauce  for  him  to  enjoy. 

For  nearly  two  hours,  songs  were  sung,  jokes 
were  told  and  bladders  were  discussed  as  the  men 
and  women  of  Mission  Control  watched  the 

(Continued  Dii  next  page) 


17 


The  STS-73  crew  voted 
to  wear  their  caps  with 
the  bills  backwards  as 
they  emerged  from  the 
O&C  Building  to  begin 
their  trip  to  the  launch 
pad.  The  jaunty  look 
was  a  big  hit  with  young 
people,  Sacco  says. 


"It  sounds  strange, 

but  I  felt  more 

normal  floating  in 

microgravity  than  I 

do  walking  on  the 

ground.  It  was  like 

I  had  come  back  to 

something  that  was 

natural  for  me? 


Coming  Home 

{Continued  from  previous  page) 

weather.  At  some  point,  Sacco  fell  asleep.  He 
awoke  at  the  T-20  minute  mark,  as  the  count 
entered  a  planned  hold,  then  dozed  again.  The 
count  stopped  again  at  the  T-5  mark  for  a  final 
check  of  the  weather.  The  dreary  skies  had  parted 
and  sun  now  shone  down  on  Pad  39B.  Through 
their  headsets,  the  crew  heard  the  verdict  from  the 
launch  director.  "Looks  like  you  folks  are  going 
flying  today." 

Leslie,  who  was  seated  between  Sacco  and 
Thornton,  punched  the  still  sleeping  Sacco  in  the 
side.  "Al,  we  just  went  by  the  five-minute  mark." 
Sacco  experienced  what  he  describes  as  a  mild 
anxiety  attack.  "For  about  30  seconds,  I  had  a 
vision  of  my  life.  I  saw  my  kids  being  born.  I  saw 
my  brothers  and  sisters  as  we  grew  up.  I  had  a 
vision  of  everyone  I  really  care  about.  I  thought, 
'What  am  I  doing  here?'  Then  it  all  went  away 
and  I  felt  at  peace  with  myself;  at  peace  with 
everybody  around  me.  I  accepted  that  what  was 
going  to  happen  was  going  to  happen.  It  was  like 
being  in  the  hands  of  God." 

With  90  seconds  to  go,  the  crew  pulled  down 
their  visors  and  turned  on  the  flow  of  oxygen 
in  their  suits.  Sacco,  Leslie  and  Thornton  ex- 
changed glances  and  held  hands  across  Leslie's 
chest.  As  the  count  reached  the  6.6-second  mark, 
the  onboard  computer  started  the  three  main 
engines.  Sacco  heard  a  muffled  roar  and  felt 
low-frequency  vibrations  through  his  seat  as  the 
engines  revved  to  90  percent  of  full  thrust,  rock- 
ing the  shuttle  forward.  With  a  twang,  the  shut- 
tle came  to  a  stop  and  began  to  rock  back  again. 
Just  then,  the  clock  reached  zero  and  the  two 
solid-fueled  boosters  erupted  with  a  boom  that 
resonated  through  the  cabin.  The  shuttle  leaped 
from  the  pad. 

Emerging  a  few  seconds  later  from  a  massive 
cloud  of  smoke  and  vapor,  Columbia  rolled  grace- 
fully and  headed  for  space.  "When  the  solids  lit, 
the  whole  thing  started  to  shudder  a  lot  more," 
Sacco  says.  "I  felt  a  compression  in  my  chest  as  we 
gradually  went  'uphill'  to  about  2.4  Gs.  The  vibra- 
tions felt  as  though  we  were  driving  over  railroad 
tracks.  All  the  while,  we  could  hear  Ken  and  Kent 
calling  out  altitudes  and  speeds." 

The  crew  waited  in  near  silence  for  the  sepa- 
ration of  the  solids.  No  doubt,  thoughts  about  the 
Challenger  explosion — caused  by  a  breach  in  a  seal 
in  one  of  the  boosters — played  across  their  minds. 
"There  are  a  number  of  phases  of  flight  that  are 
just  as  dangerous  as  those  first  two  minutes,"  Sac- 
co says,  "but  that  is  the  only  period  for  which  we 
have  no  contingencies.  For  other  phases  there  are 
contingency  plans,  which  I  have  to  admit,  in  all 
honesty,  are  not  likely  to  help  very  much,  but  at 
least  you  can  do  something — you  can  keep  your 
mind  active  until  you  obliterate." 


The  boosters  blasted  away  with  a  sound  like 
cap  guns  firing,  and  suddenly  the  ride  grew 
smooth  and  strangely  quiet.  The  main  engines 
continued  to  burn,  but  the  shuttle,  now  traveling 
several  thousand  miles  an  hour,  was  outpacing 
sound.  "All  you  can  hear  is  your  own  breathing 
and  the  voices  over  the  intercom,"  Sacco  says. 

With  the  solids  safely  away,  the  crew  became 
more  animated  and  talkative.  As  the  shuttle 
climbed  to  50  miles — traditionally  considered 
the  point  where  the  atmosphere  ends  and  space 
begins — Bowersox  called  out,  "You're  all  astro- 
nauts, now."  A  cheer  erupted  from  the  entire  crew. 

The  shuttle,  having  throttled  down,  began  to 
accelerate  again,  climbing  up  to  3.2  Gs.  Sacco 
concentrated  on  his  breathing,  but,  he  says,  the 
hours  he'd  spent  hitting  6  and  7  Gs  in  the  T-38s 
made  3.2  seem  easy.  And  then,  eight  and  a  half 
minutes  after  they  had  ignited,  the  main  engines 
cut  out  as  the  shuttle  reached  orbit.  "We  went 
flying  forward  in  our  seats,"  Sacco  says.  "It  was 
the  most  violent  portion  of  the  whole  ride.  I 
thought  I  was  going  to  go  right  through  the  bulk- 
head in  front  of  me.  No  one  had  told  me  about 
that  sensation." 

Now  drifting  through  space,  the  shuttle  eject- 
ed its  external  fuel  tank  and  began  automatically 
switching  on  electrical  systems,  fans  and  lights, 
filling  the  middeck  with  noise.  Still  trussed  tightly 
to  his  seat,  Sacco  had  no  sensation  of  weightless- 
ness. He  and  Leslie  had  been  instructed  to  stay 
put  for  at  least  a  half  hour  to  get  their  space  legs 
and  to  be  sure  they  weren't  going  to  become  sick. 
[Sacco  says  none  of  the  crew  experienced  any  nau- 
sea.] Thornton  undid  her  straps  and  began  to  help 
"safe"  the  orbiter.  Despite  the  sight  of  her  floating 
by  him,  Sacco  remained  unconvinced  that  he  had 
arrived  in  space.  "Are  we  in  orbit?"  he  asked 
Thornton.  "Damn  right,  we're  in  orbit!"  she 
replied  with  a  smile.  Finally,  Sacco  pulled  a  pen 
out  of  his  pocket,  held  it  in  front  of  him  and  let 
go.  It  didn't  fall.  "Damn  right!"  he  thought. 

Releasing  the  buckles  on  his  harnesses,  Sacco 
rose  from  his  seat  and  into  what  he  calls  "the 
three-dimensional  world  of  microgravity,"  a 
world  where  Isaac  Newton's  second  law  of  motion 
(a  body  in  motion  will  remain  in  motion  until 
compelled  by  external  forces — or  a  space  shuttle 
wall — to  change  that  state)  governs  every  move 
an  astronaut  makes.  He  says  he  felt  right  at  home. 
"It  sounds  strange,  but  I  felt  more  normal  floating 
in  microgravity  than  I  do  walking  on  the  ground. 
It  was  like  I  had  come  back  to  something  that  was 
natural  for  me.  The  thought  did  cross  my  mind 
several  times  during  the  mission  that  this  is  where 
mankind  belongs." 

Sacco  busied  himself  with  housekeeping 
chores — helping  other  crew  members  out  of  their 
pressure  suits,  stowing  the  suits  and  the  seats, 
checking  circuits  breakers,  and  so  on.  Two  hours 


18 


Winter  1996 


passed  by  in  an  instant,  and  then  he  heard  his 
name  over  the  internal  intercom.  Bowersox  was 
calling  down  from  the  flight  deck,  "Tell  Sacco  to 
get  up  here  immediately!"  Fearing  he  had  made  a 
blunder,  he  drifted  up  through  a  passageway  and 
into  the  flight  deck.  Before  him,  shining  through 
the  shuttle's  forward  windows,  was  the  most  awe- 
inspiring  sight  he  had  ever  seen. 

"There  was  the  Earth — sitting  right  in  front 
of  me,"  he  says.  "It  was  a  gigantic  ball,  predomi- 
nantly rohin's-egg 
blue — bluer  than  any 
blue  you  have  ever 
seen — with  clouds  and 
land  masses.  Around 
the  edges  was  a  thin 
limb — the  atmos- 
phere— that  went  from 
the  deep  blue  of  the 
ocean  to  a  white  haze 
to  a  beautiful  sky  blue 
to  indigo  to  the  black 
of  space.  And  that 
black  was  the  blackest 

velvet  you  can  imagine.  As  you  looked  away  from 
the  Karth,  you  could  see  millions  of  stars — galax- 
ies of  stars." 

For  the  moment,  though,  Sacco  could  not 
take  his  eyes  off  that  deep  blue  planet,  for  right  in 
the  middle,  turning  slowly  under  the  shuttle,  was 
Massachusetts.  "It  looked  just  like  a  map,  it  was  so 
clear  and  sharp,"  he  says.  "I  could  see  Logan  Air- 
port— I  could  even  see  the  runways.  It's  amazing 
how  clear  everything  is  from  space." 

Sacco  says  seeing  the  Earth  from  orbit  is  "a 
humbling  experience — a  spiritual  experience.  I 
had  the  feeling  as  I  looked  out  into  the  cosmos 
that  we  are  smaller  than  the  smallest  grain  of  sand 
on  the  largest  beach  I've  ever  been  on.  I  felt  that 
if  everyone  could  spend  an  hour  and  a  half  up 
there — one  orbit  of  the  Earth — that  there'd  be 
a  lot  fewer  problems.  There  certainly  would  be 
no  environmental  problems,  because  everyone 
would  realize  how  delicate  the  Earth  is." 

During  one  of  his  rest  periods,  Sacco  went  up 
to  the  flight  deck  alone  and  shut  off  all  the  lights — 
even  the  eerie  green  glow  of  the  computer  CRTs. 
In  total  darkness,  he  waited  while  the  shuttle 
moved  into  the  Earth's  shadow.  "I  let  my  eyes 
adjust  to  the  darkness,"  he  says,  "and  I  could  see 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  stars.  In  some  places, 
the  stars  were  so  thick  they  looked  like  a  shim- 
mering veil." 

Sacco  says  that  experience  has  changed  him. 
"I  don't  know  whether  it's  for  good  or  bad,"  he 
says.  "But  now  a  faculty  member  or  a  student  will 
come  in  to  see  me  about  something,  and  the  prob- 
lem, while  it's  important  to  them,  will  seem  quite 
tiny  to  me.  It's  hard  for  me  to  give  it  the  attention 
I  should.  It's  not  that  I'm  not  interested,  it's  just 
that  I've  had  an  awakening  they  haven't." 


USML-2's payload crew  consisted oi  two 
teams.  Sacco  and  Thornton  made  up  the 
Red  Team;  Leslie  and  Coleman  were  the 
Blue   Team.  The  teams  worked  alternate  12-hour 
shi Its,  so  science  could  be  carried  out  around 
the  clock.  After  the  orbiter  was  checked  out,  the 
Blue  Team  headed  off  to  sleep  while  Sacco  and 
Thornton  opened  up  the  spacelab,  a  23-foot-long 
cylinder  that  sits  in  the  shuttle's  cargo  bay  and  is 
connected  to  the  middeck  by  a  long, 
narrow  airlock.  The  Red  Team  began 
setting  up  experiments  designed  to 
grow  commercially  important  protein 


From  orbit,  the  Earth 
is  a  gigantic  ball  of 
brilliant  colors — an 
awe-inspiring  sight, 
Sacco  says.  His  first 
view  of  the  planet  was 
a  glimpse  of  his  home 
state  of  Massachusetts. 


crystals,  study  the  physics  of  water  drops,  and 
investigate  surface-tension-driven  convection 
(experiments  that  may  help  develop  manufactur- 
ing techniques  for  the  International  Space  Sta- 
tion). There  were  tests  of  bioprocessing  apparatus, 
work  on  processing  techniques  for  semiconductor 
manufacturing,  and  studies  of  microgravity  com- 
bustion, among  other  experiments.  In  all,  the 
work  of  hundreds  of  scientists  from  university, 
government  and  industry  research  labs  was  packed 
into  the  lab  and  in  racks  on  the  middeck. 

Among  the  apparatus  on  USML-2  was  the 
Zeolite  Crystal  Growth  Experiment,  created  by 
Sacco  and  a  team  of  faculty  and  student  research- 
ers at  WPI  (see  story,  page  16).  One  of  Sacco's 
first  assignments  was  to  prepare  the  autoclaves  for 
his  own  experiment  and  place  them  into  a  furnace 
on  the  middeck.  The  work  went  smoothly,  which 
he  says  gave  him  confidence  to  tackle  the  many 
hours  of  science  work  that  lay  ahead.  In  all,  Sacco 
says  the  Red  and  Blue  teams  carried  out  one  of 
the  most  successful  science  missions  in  NASA's 
history. 

(Continued  mi  next  page) 


"I  felt  that  if  every- 
one could  spend  an 
hour  and  a  half  up 
there — one  orbit  of 
the  Eanh — that 
thereyd  be  a  lot  fewer 
problems.  There 
certainly  would  be 
no  environmental 
problems^  because 
evetyone  would 
realize  how  delicate 
the  Earth  is. " 


WPI  Journal 


19 


Coming  Home 

(Continued  from  previous  page) 

"This  one  outshined  even  USML-1,  which 
was  a  highly  successful  mission,"  Sacco  says.  "I  got 
a  great  compliment  from  Gene  Trinh  at  the  Jet 
Propulsion  Lab,  a  payload  specialist  on  USML-1 
who  is  a  co-investigator  on  the  Drop  Physics 
Module.  He  said,  'You  guys  did  much  better  than 
I  did,  and  I'm  supposed  to  be  the  expert.'  I've  had 


"A  lot  of 
people  trusted  my 
judgement  about 
things  that  are 
not  my  areas  of 
expertise,  and  that 
made  me  feel  really 
good.  A  great  deal 
of  credit  has  to  go  to 
the  scientists  and 
trainers  who  pre- 
pared us  so  well. " 


a  lot  of  people  tell  me  similar  things.  They  said  we 
were  so  well-trained  that  after  a  while  they  didn't 
worry  about  us;  they  didn't  try  to  interact  with  us. 
They  just  let  us  do  our  thing.  A  lot  of  people 
trusted  my  judgement  about  things  that  are  not 
my  areas  of  expertise,  and  that  made  me  feel  really 
good.  A  great  deal  of  credit  has  to  go  to  the  scien- 
tists and  trainers  who  prepared  us  so  well." 

In  his  12  hours  a  day  outside  of  the  lab,  Sacco 
slept,  rode  an  exercise  bike,  communicated  with 
his  family  by  an  e-mail-like  system,  and  prepared 
for  the  day's  science  work  by  reading  messages 
sent  up  by  the  experimenters  on  the  ground.  He 
also  spent  an  hour  or  more  just  looking  out  the 
windows.  The  crew  used  some  of  their  free  time 
to  tape  not  one,  but  two  bits  of  business  for 
national  prime-time  television. 

For  one  network  spot,  they  threw  out  the  first 
pitch  of  the  World  Series.  A  baseball  had  been 
brought  aboard,  and  Bowersox  effortlessly  sent 
the  ball  sailing  toward  the  camera  while  the  crew 
waved  (a  moment  that  took  35  takes,  Sacco  says). 
The  television  audience  then  saw  a  ball  appear  to 
fall  from  the  sky  and  into  Atlanta-Fulton  County 
Stadium. 


The  other  spot  was  taped  for  the  ABC  situation 
comedy  Home  Improvement.  A  big  fan  of  the  space 
program — and  of  Thornton's  high-flying  handi- 
work on  the  Hubble  repair  mission — star  Tim 
Allen  invited  the  crew  to  film  a  brief  segment  in 
orbit  and  then,  after  the  flight,  to  come  to  the  stu- 
dio to  tape  another  bit.  The  in-orbit  segment 
showed  Thornton  attempting  to  use  a  screwdriver 
brought  along  for  Sacco's  experiment,  but  spinning 
around  and  around  from  the  torque.  Footage 

showing  Sacco  in  a  plaid  shirt  he 
had  smuggled  aboard  (the  look 
sported  by  the  character  Al  on 
Home  Improvement)  never  made  it 
on  the  show,  though  it  did  appear 
in  a  segment  of  the  syndicated 
program  Entertainment  Tonight. 

Several  members  of  the  crew 
also  used  their  personal  time  to 
do  a  bit  of  teaching.  Long  before 
the  launch,  Thornton,  Coleman 
and  Sacco — lamenting  the 
declining  interest  among  young 
people  in  science  and  technolo- 
gy— decided  that  they  had  a  rare 
opportunity  to  do  something 
about  it,  and  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
legacy  of  Christa  McAuliff,  the 
New  Hampshire  elementary 
school  teacher  who  died  in  the 
Challenger  accident.  They  drew 
up  a  plan  to  do  several  live  tele- 
casts to  schools  around  the 
nation,  conducting  science 
experiments  in  space  while  the 
students  did  the  same  experi- 
ments on  the  ground.  It  took  months  of  work  by 
Thornton  to  convince  NASA  to  go  along,  albeit 
with  a  smaller  number  of  broadcasts  than  the 
astronauts  had  hoped  for. 

In  the  end,  four  sessions  were  planned,  with 
schools  in  Worcester,  Kentucky,  Montana  and 
New  Mexico.  During  the  Worcester  broadcast, 
students  at  South  High  School  did  an  experiment 
on  adhesion  and  cohesion  of  liquids  while  Sacco 
talked  about  the  behavior  of  liquids  in  space. 
He  demonstrated 
how  surface  ten- 
sion holds  liquids 
together  by  squirt- 
ing orange  juice 
from  a  tube.  The 
juice  immediately 
gathered  into  a 
perfect  sphere, 
which  Sacco  gob- 
bled down  to  the 
delight  of  the  22 
students  in  the 
South  High  televi- 
sion studio.  The 


20 


Winter  1996 


four  broadcasts  were 
seen  by  thousands  of 
students  in  12,000  class- 
rooms around  the  coun- 
try over  the  Channel 
One  network. 

"The  broadcasts 
were  quite  successful," 
Sacco  says.  "It  took 
some  astronauts  who 
are  committed  to  edu- 
cation and  the  work  of 
many,  many  people  on 
the  ground — people 
who  were  willing  to 
organize  this  all  for 
nothing,  because  there 
is  no  money  for  this. 
Fred  and  Linda  Looft 
and  Bob  Labonte  from 
WPI  did  an  outstand- 
ing job  of  coordinating  everything.  The  idea 
we  all  had  was  to  get  young  kids  excited  and  to 
show  them  that  scientists  and  engineers  are  not 
geeks.  If  we  reached  just  a  few  of  them,  then  we 
succeeded." 

Sacco  said  he  enjoyed  daily  life  in  space  and 
adapted  well  to  microgravity.  After  a  bit  of  insom- 
nia (which  he  learned  was  caused  by  over-the- 
counter  medication  he  took  for  sinus  congestion), 
he  slept  well.  He  says  that  although  he  rarely  felt 
hungry,  he  ate  everything  in  sight  (and  still  lost  12 
pounds  during  the  mission).  Eating  in  space  is  not 
easy  at  first,  Sacco  says.  With  no  gravity  to  hold 
food  on  your  spoon  or  in  your  mouth,  it  takes  prac 
tice  and  concentration  to  avoid  making  a  mess. 


face.  I  remember  having  Kent  tap  me  on  the 
shoulder  and  point  to  his  forehead,  where  one  of 
my  meatballs  was  splattered.  You  also  had  to  allow 
a  lot  of  time  to  clean  up  floating  food  after  you'd 
finished  eating." 

Brushing  his  teeth  in  space  was  something 
Sacco  never  got  used  to.  Without  gravity  to  over- 
ride it,  surface  tension  causes  toothpaste  to  foam 
up  dramatically.  "No  one  had  told  me  what  to  do 
with  that  foam,"  he  says.  "You  can't  very  easily 
spit  it  into  a  bag — it  will  just  bounce  off  and  hit 
you  in  the  face.  So  we  spit  it  into  napkins,  but  the 
stuff  would  float  around  and  climb  up  your  face. 
Then  you'd  rinse  your  mouth  with  water  and 
you'd  have  to  spit  that  into  napkins,  too.  And  all 
the  while,  you'd  try  to  brace 
yourself  against  something 
so  you  didn't  float  all  over 
the  place." 


T: 


"It  took  some  time  to  get  used  to  chewing  so 
the  food  stayed  all  together  in  your  mouth,"  he 
says.  "You  had  to  be  careful  to  suck  straws  clean 
before  you  removed  them  from  your  lips  to  keep 
from  sending  drops  of  juice  flying  into  someone's 


he  last  day  of  the  mission 
was  a  bittersweet  one  for 
Sacco.  As  he  helped  pack 
equipment  away,  break  out 
the  seats  and  space  suits  for 
the  return  to  Earth,  and  pre- 
pare large  bags  of  cold  fluid 
(the  "liquid  load"  each  astro- 
naut must  consume  before 
reentry),  he  felt  anxious  to 
return  to  his  family.  But  at 
the  same  time  he  was  over- 
whelmed by  depression  at  the 
thought  of  possibly  never 
being  in  space  again.  When 
his  turn  came,  he  floated  for  a  few  final  minutes  in 
the  flight  deck  soaking  up  the  view  that  so  few 
Earthlings  will  ever  see,  before  returning  to  the 
middeck  to  suit  up  and  strap  in. 

(Continued  on  next  page) 


Much  of  Sacco's  time 
in  orbit  was  spent  in 
the  spacelab  doing 
research.  Opposite,  he 
and  Kathy  Thornton 
adjust  a  camera  on  one 
experiment.  Above,  he 
prepares  autoclaves  for 
his  own  zeolite  experi- 
ment (left)  and  protein 
crystals  in  the  glove 
box.  Below,  in  his  spare 
time,  he  taught  stu- 
dents about  cohesion, 
and  discovered  the 
challenges  of  eating  in 
microgravity. 


WPI  Journal 


21 


"I  really  miss  being 

part  of  the  space 

program — /  miss  the 

adventure.  I  don  yt 

like  to  think  about 

the  fact  that  I  may 

never  go  into  space 

again" 


Coming  Home 

(Continued  from  previous  page) 

Speeding  over  the  Pacific  Ocean,  Columbia 
turned  to  point  its  orbital  maneuvering  engines 
toward  North  America;  a  series  of  blasts  from  the 
engines  slowed  the  shuttle,  which  began  dropping 
out  of  orbit.  In  the  middeck,  Sacco  felt  the  push  of 
the  engines  and  then  waited  for  the  gradual  onset 
of  gravity.  As  the  spacecraft  encountered  the 
atmosphere  at  17,300  miles  an  hour,  its  heat- 
shielding  tiles  began  to  glow  bright  orange. 
Through  the  small  window  in  the  middeck  hatch, 
the  view  went  from  black  to  yellow  to  orange  as 
the  shuttle  turned  into  a  meteor.  Sacco  says  it 
looked  as  if  someone  had  placed  sheets  of  colored 
paper  over  the  window. 

Periodically,  Sacco  released  a  pen  over  his  lap 
and  watched  it  fall  faster  each  time  as  gravity  re- 
turned. As  the  shuttle  neared  the  Florida  coast,  he 
picked  up  his  6-ounce  tape  recorder  and  found 
that  it  seemed  to  weigh  50  pounds.  Clearly,  his 
body  had  acclimated  to  a  world  without  the  con- 
stant tug  of  the  Earth.  Near  the  end  of  the 
descent,  the  shuttle  was  buffeted  a  bit  before 
dropping  gently  onto  its  main  gear  on  the  landing 
strip  at  Kennedy.  The  nose  gear  hit  the  ground 
with  a  solid  bang.  Sacco  was  an  Earth  dweller, 
once  again. 

After  the  landing,  came  a  period  of  adjustment 
— both  physical  and  psychological.  Feeling 
i  heavy  and  awkward,  Sacco  walked  from  the 
shuttle  and  into  a  waiting  van.  Having  volun- 
teered for  a  NASA  medical  experiment,  he,  along 
with  Thornton  and  Leslie,  agreed  to  lie  down  for 
several  hours  rather  than  walk  around  the  shuttle 
with  the  rest  of  the  crew.  When  he  finally  stood 
up  again,  he  felt  worse  than  he  had  when  the  shut- 


tle landed.  He  later  learned  that  lying  down  right 
after  landing  prolongs  the  aftereffects  of  weight- 
lessness. The  dizziness  and  weakness  went  away 
in  a  few  days,  but  even  several  months  later,  Sacco 
says  his  muscle  capacity  is  only  about  three  quar- 
ters of  what  it  had  been  before  the  flight. 

The  mental  adjustment  has  taken  even  longer. 
In  fact,  he  may  never  really  be  the  same  person  he 
was  before  "strapping  himself  to  a  hydrogen 
bomb,"  as  he  refers  to  flying  in  the  shuttle. 
Returning  to  life  as  a  faculty  member  and  depart- 
ment head  has  been  especially  difficult.  "I  never 
thought  it  would  affect  me  like  this,"  he  says.  "I'm 
a  different  person.  I  feel  a  bit  like  a  fish  out  of 
water  here,  and  I  never  thought  I  would,  because 
I've  been  here  18  years. 

"I'm  sure  this  feeling  will  change  in  time,  but 
right  now  I  really  miss  being  part  of  the  space  pro- 
gram— I  miss  the  adventure.  I  don't  like  to  think 
about  the  fact  that  I  may  never  go  into  space  again. 
I'm  feeling  a  tremendous  letdown.  My  family  feels 
it,  too.  They  miss  the  friends  we  made  in  Houston. 
They  will  still  be  our  friends,  but  it  won't  be  the 
same.  That  was  my  home  for  18  months.  These 
were  people  I  was  prepared  to  die  with,  and  we 
became  very  close.  But  when  you  are  a  payload 
specialist... when  the  flight's  over,  its  over.  My 
office  is  gone,  my  desk  is  gone,  my  phone  number 
is  gone — it's  like  I  was  never  there." 

Except  for  the  bottle.  The  bottle  on  the  man- 
tel. On  the  shore  not  far  from  the  launch  towers 
of  the  Kennedy  Space  Center  is  a  small  beach 
house.  Since  the  early  days  of  the  space  program, 
astronauts  have  gone  there  before  their  flights 
to  share  some  laughs  and  drink  a  bottle  of  wine. 
Tradition  calls  for  everyone  to  sign  the  bottle 
and  put  it  on  the  mantel  in  the  living  room.  Now 
there  is  a  bottle  there  with  the  signature  of  Al 
Sacco.  He  is  a  part  of  space  history. 

Will  there  ever  be  another  bottle  on  that 
mantel  for  Sacco?  "I  doubt  very  much  that  I  will 
fly  again,"  he  says.  "Every  year  you  get  a  little  old- 
er, and  you  get  a  little  shakier  physically — I'm 
already  on  the  bubble  in  a  few  areas.  Plus,  this 
took  a  toll  on  me  and  my  family.  My  daughter  has 
told  me  she  hopes  I  never  do  it  again.  My  oldest 
son  didn't  think  I  was  coming  back.  My  wife  is  the 
tough  cookie  of  the  family,  but  there  were  times 
when  I  saw  a  loneliness  in  her  eyes — a  fear  I'd 
never  seen  before." 

Still,  he's  not  ready  to  completely  rule  out 
another  flight.  He  says  NASA  has  suggested  that  he 
apply  for  an  upcoming  mission.  While  he  may  pass 
on  that  flight,  if  another  comes  along  and  the  invi- 
tation is  extended,  who  knows?  "It  was  the  greatest 
experience  of  my  life,"  he  says.  "I've  never  enjoyed 
anything  professionally  as  much  as  that.  I  love  to 
teach,  but  this  outshone  that  by  a  country  mile.  If 
something  were  really  to  work  out..."  He  pauses, 
his  eyes  focused  on  a  point  far  away — maybe  1 50 
miles  away.  "I'd  go  in  a  heartbeat."  El 


22 


Winter  1996 


The  Case  of  the  Purloined 
Goaf's  Head 

(Continued  from  page  8) 

to  restore  the  goat  were  going  unrewarded.  In  the 
spirit  ofGompei  Kuwada  and  his  friends,  they 
contrived  to  steal  hoth  goats.  "We  wanted  to  he 
the  last  class  to  possess  the  old  goat  before  it  went 
to  the  archives  forever,"  says  Skull  president  and 
SAS  member  Brian  Klauber  '96.  "We  figured  we 
could  get  our  hands  on  the  new  one  eventually." 

The  seniors  quickly  came  up  with  a  plan- 
actually,  several  plans.  All  ot  them  revolved 
around  I  Listings'  successor,  Christopher  Boffoli, 
who  was  scheduled  to  pick  up  the  goats — new  and 
old — from  the  foundry  on  Friday,  Sept.  1  5,  1995. 
When  Klauher  and  Justin  L.  Holwell  '96  asked  to 
go  along  for  the  ride,  Boffoli  agreed. 

Plan  A,  according  to  Klauber  and  Holwell, 
called  for  two  carloads  of  reinforcements  to  tail 
Boffoli's  car  and  swipe  the  goats  at  the  foundry.  If 
that  failed,  Plan  B  was  to  feign  the  need  for  a  rest 
stop  on  the  return  trip,  giving  the  henchmen 
another  opening.  The  actual  thieves  were  to 
remain  anonymous,  so  Boffoli  wouldn't  connect 
the  deed  with  the  senior  class.  "We  didn't  want  to 
betray  Chris,"  says  Klauber.  "He  really  helped  us 
out,  so  it  was  important  not  to  let  him  know  that 
we  were  behind  this.  I  didn't  want  it  to  get  ugly." 

Both  plans  quickly  went  out  the  window,  as 
the  chase  cars  were  separated  from  Boffoli's  vehi- 
cle before  they  had  even  reached  the  Worcester 
city  limits.  Boffoli  pulled  onto  1-290,  leaving  the 
trailing  cars  heading  south  on  Main  Street.  Boffoli 
explained  that  the  goats  were  not  at  the  East 
Bridgewater,  Mass.,  foundry  of  Jeff  Burek  76, 
as  the  seniors  had  thought,  but  at  a  foundry  in 
Rhode  Island,  where  Burek  had  arranged  for  the 
casting  to  be  done. 

Their  hopes  dashed,  the  seniors  returned  to 
campus  in  Boffoli's  car,  eyeing  their  bronze  trav- 
eling companions  and  fishing  for  clues  as  to  their 
weekend  accommodations.  That  was  simple.  Bof- 
foli told  diem  right  off  that  he  had  been  instructed 
not  to  risk  storing  the  goats  at  the  WPI  Alumni 
Office  in  Higgins  House,  but  to  take  them  home. 

Although  Boffoli's  address  is  not  listed  in  the 
phone  book,  the  seniors  came  up  with  a  scheme 
for  getting  it.  Posing  as  a  radio  disk  jockey,  Jesse 
Parent  '96  called  Boffoli  Sunday  night  and  fabri- 
cated a  contest  that  Boffoli  was  sure  to  win.  Bof- 
foli's prize  was  a  pair  of  tickets  to  a  concert,  which 
the  station  would  be  happy  to  mail  to  him,  Parent 
said.  I  le  verified  Boffoli's  address  twice  before 
hanging  up. 

A  group  of  seniors  staked  out  Boffoli's  home 
at  dawn,  until  they  were  chased  away  by  suspi- 
cious neighbors.  They  knew  that  once  Boffoli 
returned  the  goats  to  the  Alumni  Office,  it  would 
be  too  late.  An  ambush  at  Higgins  House  was 
their  last  hope. 


(Continued  on  page  25) 


COROLLARY 


Casting  Call 


The  Birto  of  a  CrOAT  h;^,k 

ugliest  animal 

I've  ever  seen,"  jokes  Jeff  Burek  76,  the  man 
responsible  for  casting  a  reproduction  of  WPI's 
original  bronze  Goat's  I  lead.  "My  kids  are  prob- 
ably having  nightmares  after  looking  at  it." 

Burek,  owner  and  president  of  D.W.  (  dark 
Inc.,  a  metal  casting  company  in  Fast  Bridge- 
water,  Mass.,  was  asked  by  the  Alumni  Office  to 
make  a  new  goat  for  his  alma  mater.  He  judged 
the  artistry  required  by  die  job  too  delicate  for 


his  foundry,  which  produces  machine  parts  for 
industrial  and  military  use.  He  arranged  to  have 
the  work  done  by  Paul  King  Foundry  in  John- 
ston, R.I.,  at  his  own  expense,  as  an  in-kind  gift 
to  the  Institute.  WPI  paid  only  for  the  materials. 

The  duplicate  goat  was  made  using  the  lost- 
wax  process,  an  investment  casting  method 
capable  of  reproducing  fine  detail.  First,  an 
impression  was  taken  of  the  original  goat  and 
used  to  create  a  plaster  mold.  The  mold  was 
then  injected  with  hot  wax. 

After  cooling,  the  hardened  wax  "positive" 
was  dipped  into  a  series  of  heat-resistant  ceram- 
ic coatings  to  form  a  durable  shell,  with  holes 
for  draining  and  filling.  Next,  the  mold  was 
placed  in  an  autoclave  to  melt  the  wax.  The 
remaining  ceramic  shell  was  then  filled  with 
molten  bronze,  which  took  up  the  space  once 
occupied  by  the  "lost  wax." 

The  painstaking  finish  work  of  cleaning, 
perfecting  surface  detail,  and  applying  a  patina 
took  many  months  of  intensive  hand  labor.  The 
replica  is  said  to  be  virtually  indistinguishable 
from  the  original,  with  all  of  the  class  inscrip- 
tions (even  the  original  1926  foundry  stamp) 
reproduced  in  exact  detail.  The  new  goat  may 
lack  the  luster  that  bronze  acquires  from  being 
handled  over  time,  but  with  so  many  students 
vying  to  get  dieir  hands  on  the  beast,  it  won't  be 
long  before  it  starts  to  glow. 

—I  KM 


Jeff  Burek  '76  in  his 
East  Bridgewater, 
Mass.,  casting 
company.  He  was 
responsible  for 
cloning  the  Goat's 
Head,  which  he  calls 
"the  ugliest  animal 
I've  ever  seen." 


WPI  Journal 


23 


EDITOR'S  NOTE:  Anyone  familiar  with  WPI 
traditions  knows  that  the  Goafs  Head  trophy  is 
but  a  memento  of  the  Institute's  first  mascot,  a 
live  black  goat  kept  by  Japanese  student  Gompei 
Kinvada.  But  why  a  goat?  Why  Gompei?  And 
why  that  huge  head?  Here's  the  whole  stoty. 

The  tale  of  the  Goat's  Head  dates 
back  more  than  a  century  to  the 
spring  of  1891.  At  that  time,  the 
enthusiastic  members  of  the  Class  of  1893, 
then  sophomores,  decided  they  wanted  a 
mascot.  One  day  a  group  of  classmates  took 
a  half-day  road  trip  to  Dungarvan  Hill,  east 
of  Worcester's  Union  Station.  Here  they 
secured — kidnapped,  it  might  be  said — a  live 
black  goat  they  felt  would  represent  their 
"defensive  and  buttinsky"  temperament. 

The  goat  was  taken  to  a  farmhouse  on 
Park  Avenue.  A  Japanese  student,  Gompei 
Kuwada,  who  the  class  considered  to  be 
quite  a  humorous  character,  was  chosen  to 
care  for  the  unmanageable 
animal.  Gompei's  selection 
resulted  from  his  ability  to 
handle  and  placate  the  beast 
and  because  his  were  the 
only  initials  that  fit  the  title, 
"Goat  Keeper."  The  goat, 
led  by  Kuwada,  soon  became 
a  popular  attendant  at  class 
activities. 

As  the  end  of  the  aca- 
demic year  drew  near,  the 
class  met  to  discuss  the 
expense  of  boarding  the 
goat  for  the  summer.  Kuwa- 
da suggested  that  anyone 
would  be  honored  to  keep 
his  friend  the  goat.  However,  no  suitable 
situation  emerged,  so  the  goat  was  chloro- 
formed and  decapitated.  The  head  was 
stuffed  and  mounted  on  a  board,  and  for  the 
following  two  years,  this  served  as  mascot 
for  the  Class  of  1893. 

The  first  recorded  Goat's  Head  theft 
occurred  in  the  spring  of  1892,  when 
Kuwada  and  a  few  of  his  classmates 
returned  from  break  to  find  the  head  miss- 
ing from  their  John  Street  rooming  house. 
The  men  of  '93,  now  juniors,  had  to  show 
their  mascot  in  just  a  few  days,  or  be  made  a 
laughingstock  by  '94.  With  little  time  to 
act,  a  few  members  of  the  class  traveled  by 
night  to  procure  another  black  goat  and 
have  him  similarly  foreshortened. 

The  fate  of  the  original  head  was  not 
discovered  until  1913,  at  the  Class  of  1 893's 


COROLLARY 


Why  a  Goat? 

20th  Reunion  dinner  in  the  Electrical  Lab- 
oratory (now  Atwater  Kent  Labs).  The  lab's 
big  crane  began  to  move  down  the  room 
until  it  stopped  over  their  table  and  lowered 
the  original  Goat's  Head.  The  trophy  now 
bore  an  inscription  from  the  Class  of  1 894, 
which  had  taken  it  to  Nova  Scotia  and  kept 
it  hidden  for  20  years. 

Many  years  after  the  original  head  was 
returned  to  the  Class  of '93,  the  Class  of 
1928,  as  sophomores,  decided  that  life  at  the 
Institute  would  be  more  spirited  if  some 
source  of  rivalry  between  odd 
and  even  classes  was  imple- 
mented. They  had  in 
mind  a  contest  much 
like  that  at  Amherst 
College,  in  which  the 
Sabrina  statue  was 
constantly  stolen  back 
and  forth  between  the 
classes.  The  Class  of 


The  Class  of  1893  and  "Goat  Keeper" 
Gompei  Kuwada  (inset)  with  the  origi- 
nal stuffed  Goat's  Head. 

1928  asked  the  Class  of  1893  to  contribute 
the  mounted  goat's  head  for  this  purpose. 

Not  surprisingly,  the  original  was 
thought  too  fragile.  However,  for  the  occa- 
sion of  its  35th  Reunion,  the  Class  of  1893 
made  a  bronze  casting  to  represent  the 
Goat's  Head.  Its  body  was  only  about  a 
foot  long,  but  its  head  was  life  size  and 
sculpted  in  the  likeness  of  the  original  goat. 
The  miniature,  which  was  said  to  weigh 
"twenty  and  a  Kuwada"  pounds,  was  pre- 
sented to  the  Class  of  1928  at  its  sopho- 
more banquet,  along  with  a  list  of  rules. 
The  rules  required  the  possessing  class  to 
display  the  goat  at  least  once  a  year  at  some 
school  gathering. 


Some  of  the  more  creative  showings 
have  become  legendary.  In  1929  freshmen 
dangled  the  goat  from  an  airplane  that  cir- 
cled the  track  during  a  meet  against  Tufts. 
The  next  fall,  the  Class  of  1932  tried  to 
pass  off  a  doctored  photograph  to  convince 
others  that  they  had  the  goat.  The  goat  has 
been  thrown  off  Earle  Bridge  into  a  moving 
convertible,  hung  from  the  ceiling  of  Alum- 
ni Gym,  and  even  "shown"  on  videotape  by 
the  Class  of  1997. 

This  form  of  rivalry,  in  which  the  goat 
was  stolen  and  hidden  by  the  freshmen  and 
sophomores,  was  soon  replaced  with  an 
interclass  competition  that  included 
.  the  Rope  Pull,  Tech  Carnival  and  the 
Paddle  Rush,  as  well  as  several 
sporting  events.  The  Goat's  Head 
was  awarded  to  the  class  with  the 
most  points  at  the  end  of  the  year. 
Under  this  system,  the  Goat's 
Head  spent  most  of  its  time  locked  in 
a  trophy  case  in  the  gym. 
But  in  1939,  it  was  stolen 
and  temporarily  stashed  in 
a  cemetery.  A  group  of  boys 
stumbled  on  the  statue  and 
tried  to  sell  it  to  a  junk- 
man, who  luckily  recog- 
nized its  value  and  refused 
to  make  the  purchase. 
Fortunately,  the  Goat  was 
later  spotted  by  an  alumus 
of  the  Class  of  1 9 1 5 ,  who 
saw  that  the  mascot  was 
returned  to  WPI. 

The  Goat's  Head 
chase  was  revived  in  the 
1950s  and  has  fallen  in  and 
out  of  favor  several  times  since  then.  It  was 
recognized  that  the  competition  engendered 
school  spirit  and  class  bonding,  but  the 
increasingly  violent  chases  were  considered  a 
danger  to  the  students  and  the  now-valuable 
goat.  Student  interest  in  possessing  the  tro- 
phy has  never  died  out  entirely,  however.  No 
matter  where  the  Goat's  Head  was  hidden 
during  its  periods  of  retirement,  enterprising 
students  have  always  found  a  way  to  steal  it. 

This  article  is  a  condensation  of  a  presentation 
compiled  for  Traditions  Day  in  1 993  by  former 
members  of  the  Student  Alumni  Society,  including 
Matthew  Friend  '93,  Sam  Tetlow  '93  and  Brian 
Prunier  '93.  Source  materials  included  "History  of 
the  '93  Goat, "  the  definitive  account  ly  Arthur  C. 
Comins  of  the  Class  of  1893,  zvhich  was  published 
in  the  WPI  Journal  in  July  1 928. 


24 


Winter  1996 


The  Case  of  the  Purloined 
Goat's  Head 

(Continued  from  page  23) 

Monday  morning,  Boffoli  got  up,  retrieved 
die  goats  from  his  garage,  and  left  for  work.  ( )n 
the  way  in,  with  the  statues  sitting  side  by  side  on 
the  floor  of  the  back  seat,  he  went  over  in  his 
mind  how  he  would  carry  them  in  and  hand  them 
over  for  a  photo  session  with  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion and  the  WPI  News  Service.  He  pulled  into 
the  Higgins  House  circle  shortly  before  9  a.m. 
and  parked  behind  the  building. 

Phil  Gunning  '96  appeared  from  nowhere  and 
grabbed  at  the  handle  of  the  car's  rear  door.  It  was 
locked.  The  would-be  thief  shrugged  and  walked 
off.  "I  though  nothing  of  it,"  says  Boffoli,  who  is 
accustomed  to  the  antics  of  fraternity  members 
who  often  cut  through  the  grounds  of  Higgins 
House.  "It  didn't  go  through  my  thick  skull  that 
something  was  really  wrong." 

He  unlocked  his  car,  hoisted  a  heavy  bronze 
statue  under  each  arm,  and  headed  for  the  Hig- 
gins House  door.  He  didn't  get  far  before  he  was 
ambushed  by  Jason  Averill  '96  and  Holwell.  The 
seniors  made  off  with  the  goats  without  a  hitch. 
"I  had  heard  stories  about  how  people  schemed  to 
get  the  goat,  but  I  had  no  idea  the  students  would 
pull  something  like  this,"  Boffoli  says.  "It  made  no 
sense  to  struggle  or  give  chase;  I  was  afraid  that 
the  goats  would  be  dented  or  damaged." 

Reluctantly,  he  marched  upstairs  to  inform 
Sharon  Davis,  director  of  alumni  programs,  of  the 
theft.  "It  was  my  duty  to  bring  the  goats  back  safe- 
ly, and  I  failed,"  he  says.  "I  felt  betrayed.  It  was 
humiliating  to  have  disappointed  Sharon  by  drop- 
ping the  ball." 

After  some  tense  phone  calls,  an  emergency 
meeting  was  convened.  The  seniors'  position  was 
that  they  were  carrying  out  a  time-honored  tradi- 
tion, one  not  subject  to  administrative  control. 
The  administration  voiced  concerns  about  the  his- 
torical value  of  the  goats  and  VVPI's  liability  in  an 
unregulated  chase.  There  was  also  some  contro- 
versy over  which  set  of  rules  was  in  effect  at  the 
time  of  the  robbery — the  original,  decades-old 
code  or  the  new  rules  being  developed  by  the 
Goat's  Head  Committee. 

After  much  discussion,  a  new  set  of  rules  was 
quickly  drawn  up  and  officially  adopted  by  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  Alumni  Association 
at  Homecoming.  It  forbids  transporting  the  goat 
by  motor  vehicle,  confines  chases  to  campus,  and 
requires  that  classes  report  the  goat's  whereabouts 
to  the  Goat's  Head  Committee  each  time  it  is 
moved. 

By  the  evening  of  the  day  of  the  heist,  the 
seniors  returned  the  old  goat  to  the  Alumni 
Office,  but  not  before  having  their  class  year 
engraved  in  a  conspicuous  manner  on  the  animal's 
rump.  They  kept  the  new  goat  to  display  at  a  time 
and  place  of  their  choosing. 


£\v~  ~ 


,r*  •»""* 


then 


i<i" 


Thus,  the  kick-off  of  the  revived  Goat's  I  lead 
rivalry  took  place  at  I  [omecoming,  as  planned, 

but  not  in  the  ceremonious  manner  that  the 
Alumni  ( )ffice  and  the  Student  Alumni  Society 
had  intended.  The  seniors  enjoyed  their  moment 
of  glory,  but  some  parties  on  campus  were  at  odds 
with  the  tactics  used  to  attain  it. 

"A  number  of  students  were  dis 
mayed  by  their  exclusion 
from  the  events 
surrounding  the 
Coat's  I  lead," 
Boffoli  says.  "I 
liken  it  to  grabbing 
the  football  from  the 
ref  and  running 
down  the  field  for  a 
touchdown  before 
anyone  was  ready." 

Once  the  old  goat 
was  returned  and  the 
rules  controversy  settled, 
the  seniors  began  flaunt- 
ing their  prize  and  tortur 
ing  the  younger  classes 
with  bogus  clues  that  sent 
them  pointlessly  digging  through  a  mound  of 
fresh  dirt  by  Skull  Tomb  and  rising  at  the  crack  of 
dawn  to  search  local  landmarks.  "The  Class  of  '96 
really  did  do  a  good  job  of  exciting  the  student 
body  and  engaging  the  underclassmen  about  pos- 
sessing the  goat,"  Boffoli  says. 

"I  wanted  the  students  to  have  a  good  time 
and  learn  something  about  WPI  history,"  says 
Klauber.  "We  told  them  that  if  they  truly  knew 
the  Goat's  Head  history,  the  trophy's  location 
would  become  so  apparent,  it  would  just  unfold 
right  before  their  eyes. 

"That  was  completely  false,  but  the  good 
thing  was,  they  were  sitting  down  and  reading  the 
literature — learning  WPI  historv."  Reference 
works,  such  as  the  late  Mildred  Tymeson  Petrie's 
Two  Towers  and  Seventy  Years  of  the  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute  by  Herbert  F.  Taylor  '12  are  much 
in  demand  these  days. 

Widi  the  Goat's  Head  back  in  circulation,  the 
campus  is  alive  with  signs  of  the  chase,  from  col- 
ored-chalk graffiti  on  the  sidewalk,  to  rumors  of 
a  live  goat  in  the  dining  commons,  to  letters  and 
editorials  in  Newspeak,  the  student  newspaper,  to 
e-mail  bulletins  on  the  status  of  the  mascot.  The 
goat  has  also  been  a  philanthropist,  raising  money 
for  charity  when  Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity  auc- 
tioned off  a  chance  to  touch  the  bronze  animal. 

After  their  triumphant  showing  at  the  Home- 
coming football  game,  the  seniors  put  their  trophy 
up  for  grabs  in  a  treasure  hunt  held  after  the  rope 
pull  on  Homecoming  Day.  The  juniors  won.  But 
when  Klauber  went  to  award  them  their  prize,  it 
wasn't  in  its  hiding  place.  Some  enterprising  fresh- 
men had  stumbled  upon  it  and,  in  the  true  tradition 
of  the  chase,  stolen  it  from  the  thieves.  Fl 


A^0V3C    ,.^- 


t»-»" 


"/  had  heard  stories 
about  how  people 
schemed  to  get  the 
goat,  but  I  had  no 
idea  the  students 
would  pull  some- 
thing like  this. " 
-Christopher  Boffoli 


WPI  Journal 


25 


Digital  Drama 

(Continued  from  page  11) 

hand  knowledge  is  by  creating  technology  for  an 
actual  production.  WPI's  active  theater  program 
affords  students  many  opportunities  during  the 
year  to  do  just  that.  Masque,  WPI's  dramatic  arts 
club,  mounts  two  major  productions  each  year. 
The  New  Voices  festival,  now  in  its  14th  year,  is  a 
weeklong  celebration  of  new  plays  written,  staged 
and  performed  by  members  of  the  WPI  commu- 
nity. And  the  MW 


u  a  u  I)  y  D  u 


®  ® 


©  0 


©C] 

©a 

®CD 
©CD 


QDjD 


-9- 


fr& 


©  © 
4j4> 


4> 


©  ® 


4^+> 
®  ® 


©   ©  ©  g  g  ©  ©  ©  0  " 


©  ©  ©  © 


0 —   g 


o —  0- 


0- 


o®®©©®®® 

g.  i'huii 
rj-  t-  mm 

\J'   n'fioo. 


A-  •>— i 


44 RQDDDgDCDDgDDD    §- 

®  ©®®®o©®s.  ©®®©@®      u 


C3o 

C5© 
CD© 
CO© 
CD© 
C3© 

(LOU 
0  5  5  B- 

®  o  o  o 


Wf 


w 


©©©©©©©©(    ©  ©   © 


One  of  four  students  who 

designed  the  technical 

components  for  a  major 

production  of  Henry  V 

last  fall  for  their  MOP, 

Daniel  Afonso  created 

an  elaborate  lighting 

design,  above,  and  used 

computer  modeling  to 

help  engineer  effects 

like  those  shown  on  the 

opposite  page. 


Repertory  Company, 
founded  by  students 
in  1988,  puts  on  fre- 
quent productions  in 
various  performing 
spaces  around  the 
campus. 

Students  who 
participate  in  Masque 
productions  and  New 
Voices  can  get  credit 
for  their  work  by  reg- 
istering for  an  inde- 
pendent study.  Last 
fall,  the  WPI  faculty 
approved  several  new 
theater  courses  within  the  Humanities  and  Arts 
Department  that  enable  students  to  earn  credit  for 
their  work  as  actors,  dramaturges,  directors  or  the- 
ater technology  designers. 

The  first  opportunity  for  students  to  enroll 
in  these  new  courses  came  last  November  with  a 
major  production,  directed  by  Vick,  of  Shake- 
speare's Henry  V.  The  production  was  also  the 
focus  of  an  IQP,  "Theater  Technology  Options 
Explored  and  Expanded  for  the  1995  Production 
of  William  Shakespeare's  The  Life  of  King  Henry 
the  Fifth"  conducted  by  seniors  Daniel  Afonso, 
Christopher  Mangiarelli,  Daniel  Martins  and 
Noah  Weisleder.  The  project  was  co-advised  by 
Vick  and  Dean  O'Donnell  '86,  visiting  instructor 
of  drama  at  WPI. 

The  students  designed  the  versatile  set  for  the 
play,  created  the  designs  for  the  lighting  and 
sound,  and  developed  a  schedule  that  would 
enable  the  complicated  production  to  proceed  in 
an  orderly  manner  toward  opening  night.  They 
also  edited  the  lengthy  historical  play  to  keep  the 
running  time  for  the  performance  to  a  reasonable 
length — from  what  may  well  have  been  a  three- 
hour  show  to  a  two-hour  production.  The  process 
required  deleting  1,200  lines  of  text.  The  cuts  got 
to  the  heart  of  the  story  and  left  the  play  unhin- 
dered by  repetition  and  unnecessary  characters, 
Vick  says.  As  they  edited,  the  students  developed 
an  overriding  theme  for  the  play,  which  helped 
them  make  decisions  about  which  scenes  to  short- 
en or  eliminate  and  which  characters  to  leave  on 
the  cutting  room  floor. 


"Before  we  could  start  the  editing  process," 
the  students  wrote  in  their  final  report,  "we  had 
to  ask  ourselves,  'What  is  this  play  about?'  We 
decided  it  is  definitely  a  play  about  conflict.  It  is 
also  a  play  about  the  growth  of  Henry's  character, 
but  more  than  that,  it  is  a  showcase  of  Henry's 
attributes.  In  the  end  we  decided  the  most  impor- 
tant thing  about  the  play — what  it  is  really  trying 
to  say — is,  'Henry  is  cool.'" 

After  working  as  a  team  to  trim  the  script,  the 
students  split  up  to  tackle  the  technical  aspects  of 
the  production.  Afonso,  an  electrical  engineering 
major,  worked  out  the  lighting  design.  He  made 
extensive  use  of  side  lighting  and  back  lighting, 
as  well  as  deep  colors,  to  create  "an  atmosphere 
of  darkness  and  fear"  during  important  scenes. 
Among  the  lighting  effects  he  developed  for  the 
production  was  a  display  of  moving  clouds  and  stars 
that  the  audience  viewed  before  the  play  began  and 
during  intermission.  The  effect  was  accomplished 
through  the  use  of  a  rotating  mirror  placed  above  a 
light  projecting  the  image  of  a  cloud. 

Afonso  developed  and  tested  concepts  and 
designs  with  a  computer  modeling  program  that 
enabled  him  to  see  how  various  lighting  effects 
and  the  placement  of  lighting  instruments  would 
work  with  the  set  and  with  the  progression  of  the 
play.  The  software  even  enabled  the  designer  to 
animate  scenes  as  an  aid  in  determining  how  to 
change  the  lighting  during  scenes  and  in  using 
lighting  to  help  make  transitions  between  scenes. 

The  scenic  design  was  completed  by  Weisled- 
er, a  biotechnology  major.  The  design  involved 
extensive  use  of  Alden  Memorial's  counterweight 
fly  system,  used  to  bring  set  pieces  in  from  above 
and  on  the  sides  of  the  stage.  The  final  design 
incorporated  four  rotating  wall  components  called 
Mielziners.  The  walls  could  be  opened  to  enable 
actors  to  enter  and  exit  the  stage  and  then  closed 
to  form  seamless  surfaces.  Vick  says  Weisleder's 
design  was  the  most  complex  set  ever  used  in  a 
WPI  theater  production. 

Using  computer-aided  design  software,  Weis- 
leder was  able  to  render  various  solutions  to  the 
many  locations  Shakespeare  created  for  Henty  V 
and  to  see  how  set  changes  and  movements  might 
work  within  the  confines  of  Alden  Memorial.  The 
software  was  also  an  aid  in  designing  a  new  type 
of  set  element — the  Multi-Purpose  Performance 
Staging  or  MUPS — which  Weisleder  developed 
for  the  production.  An  open  box  measuring  three 
feet  on  a  side  by  one  foot  high,  with  muslin 
attached  to  the  insides,  the  MUPS  could  serve  as 
a  raised  platform,  as  a  base  for  a  tent,  and  as  a  hid- 
ing place  for  a  soldier  during  the  battle  scenes. 

Mangiarelli,  another  electrical  engineering 
major,  designed  the  audio  system  for  the  show,  as 
well  as  a  script  for  the  sound  effects  needed  to  com- 
plete the  transformation  of  Alden  Memorial  into 
the  world  of  King  Henry.  He  used  acoustical  barri- 
ers to  contain  the  sound,  microphones  strategically 


26 


Winter  1996 


placed  to  improve  the  acoustics  of  the  hall,  and  dig- 
ital sound  effects  stored  on  a  computer.  With  the 
aid  of  computer  modeling,  he  designed  an  elabo- 
rate system  of  speakers  that  surrounded  the  audi- 
ence— including  speakers  placed  above  the  stage. 

The  system,  combined  with  a  computer- 
controlled  sound  board,  let  the  designer  create 
realistic  sound  effects  and  use  them  to  generate 
complex  soundscapes  to  enhance  the  drama  of 
the  production.  The  production  also  made  use  of 
ambient  audio  effects  that  created  realistic  sounds 
for  specific  locations  in  the  plav.  For  example,  as 
a  scene  opened  in  a  church,  the  audience  experi- 
enced the  resonance  and  reverberations  typical  of 
a  large  stone  church.  This  audio  technique  was 
suggested  in  the  IQP  and  further  developed  by 
students  in  the  Theater  Technology  course. 

Electrical  engineering  major  Martins  brought 
everything  together  by  constructing  the  timeline 
for  the  many  activities  required  to  mount  this 
complex  show.  He  created  schedules  for  every- 
thing from  set  construction  to  lighting,  to  the 
set-up  of  the  seating  area,  to  publicity.  Martins 
also  drew  up  a  preliminary  budget  for  the  show. 
As  production  manager,  he  also  helped  find 
students  to  serve  as  crew  chiefs  for  the  various 
technical  areas,  as  house  manager  and  as  publicity 
manager. 

While  each  had  his  own  focus  area,  the  four 
students  interacted  frequently  to  be  sure  that  all  of 
the  technical  aspects  of  the  show  worked  together 
smoothly,  and  that  everything  came  together  on 
schedule.  "The  best  part,"  Mangiarelli  says,  "was 
having  everything  organized  before  rehearsals 
even  started." 

The  production  of  Henry  V  offered  a  preview 
of  how  the  Theater  and  Technology  program  will 
likely  develop  in  the  years  ahead,  Vick  says.  Simi- 
lar theater  projects  will  offer  opportunities  not 
only  for  IQPs,  but  for  Major  Qualifying  Projects 
for  humanities  and  arts  majors  and  double  majors. 
Vick  hopes  the  success  of  the  program  will  make 
it  possible  to  hire  theater  professionals  to  serve  as 
teachers,  project  advisors  and  directors,  roles  she 
now  fills  with  the  help  of  O'Donnell. 

The  high-tech  rendition  of  Hemy  Falso  pro- 
vided a  glimpse  of  how  the  computer  is  trans- 
forming the  world  of  traditional  theater  perfor- 
mances. In  future  work,  Vick  says,  students  may 
take  that  one  step  further  and  find  ways  to  take 
the  designs  they  create  with  the  computer  and 
project  them  directly  into  the  performing  space. 
"Dean  O'Donnell  has  already  started  working  on 
ideas  for  using  virtual  reality,  not  only  to  create 
theater  performances  within  a  computer — some- 
thing that  others  are  also  experimenting  with — 
but  to  develop  a  new  tool  for  creating  virtual  sets 
within  a  real  performing  space.  That's  pretty 
exciting."  Vick  hopes  they  might  someday  be  able 
to  create  a  dedicated  laboratory  for  student  pro- 
ject work  in  virtual  reality  theater. 


Another  hope  she  has  for  the  theater  technolo- 
gy program  is  that  it  will  help  broaden  the  popular 
perception  of  what  constitutes  the  humanities  and 
arts.  "The  humanities  traditionally  has  been  seen 
as  a  field  quite  distinct  from  the  technical  fields  of 
engineering  and  science.  But  today,  that  distinction 
is  blurring.  Technically  oriented  people  need  to 
know  something  about  the  humanities  and  arts,  and 
people  in  nontechnical  professions — particularly 
theater — need  to  understand  and  know  how  to 
use  modern  technology.  Perhaps  programs  like 
ours  can  serve  as  a  bridge  between  these  two 
worlds."  Fl 

The  WPI  Theater  and  Technology  program  is  on  the 
World  Wide  Web  at  http://www.wpi.edu/Academics/ 
Depts/IFD/TT/.  For  more  information  about  the 
program,  contact  Lisa  Johnson,  theater  technology 
administrator,  at  508-831-5946  or  e-?nail 
ljohnson@wpi.edu. 

Plack  is  a  technical,  scientific  and  professional  commu- 
nication major  with  an  interest  in  biology.  She  is  also 
secretaiy  of  the  Student  Government  Association,  asso- 
ciate editor  o/Newspeak,  the  student  newspaper,  and 
a  member  of  the  senior  class  board  of  directors. 


"Dean  O'Donnell 
has  already  started 
working  on  ideas  for 
using  virtual  reality, 
not  only  to  create 
theater  performances 
within  a  computer. . . 
but  to  develop  a  new 
tool  for  creating 
virtual  sets  within 
a  real  performing 
space. " 
— Susan  Vick 


WPI  Journal 


27 


Most  graduates  have 
a  static  mental  snap- 
shot of  the  WPI  they 
knew  during  their 
brief  stay  on  campus. 
By  comparison,  Joes 
view  is  a  time-lapse 
film  in  which  build- 
ings suddenly  pop 
up  where  before 
there  were  houses 
or  empty  spaces. 


Hey,  Joe! 

(Continued  from  page  13) 

Joe  was  sent  to  Manila  on  a  Liberty  freighter 
as  part  of  Casualty  Group  6862  A.  "That  designa- 
tion was  just  a  code,"  he  recalls,  "in  case  a  radio 
transmission  was  intercepted  by  the  enemy."  Bad 
luck  struck — literally — when  the  freighter  was  hit 
broadside  by  another  American  ship.  Ever  the 
optimist,  Joe  says  that  once  it  was  clear  everyone 
was  okay,  "It  was  the  thrill  of  a  lifetime.  We  end- 
ed up  in  Guam  for  67  days  while  the  ship  was 
repaired,  so  I  was  there  when  the  atomic  bomb 
came  in  on  the  Indianapolis." 

Joe's  unit  arrived  in  Okinawa  on  the  day  sur- 
render papers  with  the  Japanese  were  signed.  "We 
were  some  of  the  first  troops  on  the  ground,"  he 
says.  "I  still  get  letters  from  the  other  members  of 
the  Casualty  Group." 

The  war  over  on  both  fronts,  his  military 
service  at  its  end,  and  with  A.J.  Knight's  "edict" 
thrown  down,  Joe  did  what  so  many  other  Gales 
have  done:  he  went  to  work  at  WPI.  His  grand- 
father, father  and  two  uncles  all  worked  for  the 
school  in  various  capacities,  and  for  extended 
periods  of  time.  Joe's  son  Jack,  following  a  slightly 
different  path,  graduated  from  WPI  in  1970.  As 
a  WPI  employee,  Joe  has  outlasted  all  the  other 
Gales. 

\/W  o/^  t&t  <&m*6**^  \MP\  cA^^t: 

"Since  I  came  here,  on  the  east  side  of  campus 
they've  built  Kaven,  Gordon  Library,  Founders, 
and  Fuller  Labs — the  new  computer  building.  On 
the  west  side  they  added  Olin,  Goddard  and  Har- 
rington. Plus,  all  of  the  dormitories  on  the  south 
side  of  campus,  Morgan,  Daniels,  Stoddard,  Ells- 
worth/Fuller...'" 

It's  striking  to  consider  just  how  different  WPI 
looked  50  years  ago.  As  Joe  ticks  off  buildings  that 
have  been  constructed  during  his  tenure,  one 
gains  a  tremendous  sense  of  perspective.  Most 
graduates  have  a  static  mental  snapshot  of  the 
WPI  they  knew  during  their  brief  stay  on  campus. 
By  comparison,  Joe's  view  is  a  time-lapse  film  in 
which  buildings  suddenly  pop  up  where  before 
there  were  houses  or  empty  spaces. 

But  it's  not  just  the  physical  plant  that  has 
changed  over  the  last  half  century.  In  fact,  there 
are  so  many  markers  of  Joe's  longevity  that  the  list 
begins  to  read  like  those  the  news  media  cranked 
out  when  Cal  Ripken  broke  the  major  league 
record  for  the  most  consecutive  games  played. 
"I've  worked  for  every  athletic  director  WPI  has 
had,  starting  with  Percy  Carpenter,"  Joe  says. 
He's  also  seen  nine  presidents  come  and  go.  ("I've 
met  the  new  guy,  Ed  Parrish,"  he  says.  "I  got  him 
coffee  and  a  sandwich.") 

Over  the  last  50  years,  WPI's  faculty  and  staff 
has  grown  from  around  100  to  680.  Undergradu- 


ate enrollment  has  increased  nearly  tenfold,  from 
around  300  to  2,600.  WPI's  endowment  has 
jumped  from  about  $8  million  to  $142  million. 
And  on  and  on. 

The  school  that  Joe  went  to  work  for  in  1946 
was  vasdy  different  in  many  ways  from  the  one  we 
know  today — right  down  to  the  way  most  people 
referred  to  it.  In  Joe's  time,  the  now  familiar  and 
virtually  automatic  initials  "WPI"  were  not  typ- 
ically used.  Instead,  it  was  "Worcester  Tech"  for 
short,  "Tech"  for  even  shorter.  Joe  himself  still 
uses  the  latter  in  conversation;  yet  another  reminder 
of  the  bridge  he  provides  between  then  and  now. 

vox,  e*»  w^M*4*t  \jC<\  ww.  cLomja: 

"I  needed  civilian  clothes  when  I  got  back.  So  1 
went  down  to  Ware  &  Pratt's — where  the  Burger 
King  on  Main  Street  is  now — to  get  some  white 
shirts.  I  ended  up  with  a  suit — two  suits,  in  fact — 
and  a  camel  hair  sport  coat. " 

Properly  spiffed  up,  Joe  reported  to  A.J.  Knight. 
For  his  first  year  at  WPI,  Joe  was  the  athletic  field 
groundskeeper.  He  was  then  transferred  to  the 
Mechanical  Engineering  Department,  where,  in 
WPI's  newly  established  weld  shop,  the  late  Pro- 
fessor Carl  G.Johnson  taught  him  how  to  weld. 

"I  was  just  as  green  as  grass,"  Joe  says.  But 
Johnson  brought  him  along,  and  soon  asked  Joe  to 
return  the  favor  by  teaching  students  to  weld. 
"Carl  said,  Til  teach  this  course,  but  sometimes 
I'll  have  to  be  out  of  town,'"  Joe  recalls.  "He  gave 
the  first  lecture  and  the  second  day  he  said  to  me, 
'If  you're  going  to  work  with  me,  you're  going  to 
have  to  do  it.'  So  he  just  gave  me  the  instructions 
and  I  prepared  the  lecture  and  did  it.  I  liked  it  and 
it  was  interesting,  and  I  inherited  the  job  later 
on."  From  that  time  on,  Joe  has  instructed  stu- 
dents in  general  machine  shop  operations,  casting 
and  welding. 

With  much  respect  and  a  touch  of  sadness,  he 
adds,  "Carl  died  in  1966.  He  was  one  of  the  great- 
est guys  I  ever  worked  for.  He  was  a  great,  great 
gentleman." 

Of*  M/SceM-AA^CM/4.,  i^OA/ti  WH4  ^C/ll 

"My  favorite  memory  of  Joe  occurred  at  a  football 
game.  We  were  playing  UMass  and  we  had  won 
by  a  point.  After  the  game  I  was  so  tired  and  sore 
from  some  banged-up  ribs  that  I  couldn't  make  it 
back  up  the  hill.  Joe  came  down  with  a  wheel- 
barrow and  rolled  me  up  the  hill. " 
— Richard  Feirari  'SI 

Joe's  involvement  with  WPI  and  its  students  only 
begins  in  the  Washburn  Shops.  A  fervently  loyal 
supporter  of  WPI  athletics,  Joe  is  a  constant  pres- 
ence at  basketball  and  football  games,  wrestling 
meets  and  other  athletic  contests.  "I've  been  the 
manager  of  the  press  box  since  it  opened,"  Joe 


28 


Winter  1996 


says.  "I  traveled  with  the  football  team  for  15 
wars.  I  work  the  basketball  games — especially  the 
tournaments.  Someone  once  said  I  was  like  an 
ambassador  lor  the  sports  teams." 

The  Department  of  Physical  Education  and 
Athletics  has  a  lot  more  to  say  on  the  subject  of 
Joe:  "We  truly  enjoy  Joe  and  appreciate  him  for 
the  job  he  does,"  says  director  Raymond  Gilbert. 
"He  really  has  served  as  an  ambassador  for  athlet- 
ics at  WPI.  We  frequently  get  compliments — all 
unsolicited — from  visiting  teams  about  Joe  and 
the  way  he  treats  everybody.  He's  quite  profes- 
sional and  personable.  We  need  more  people  like 
him." 

To  thank  him  for  all  that  he  has  done  for  so 
many  of  WPI's  athletic  teams — and  for  so  many 
people — the  department  chose  Joe  to  receive  the 
Frank  C.  Harrington  Award  in  1990.  The  honor, 
named  for  a  student  athlete  from  WPI's  Class  of 
1898  who  is  also  one  of  the  namesakes  for  Har- 
rington Auditorium,  is  presented  to  individuals 
who  have  made  significant  contributions  to  inter- 
collegiate athletic  programs  at  WPI. 

vW  04\  t&t  l*hjpO/itM*CL  ol  io&  VwU4'. 

Q:  What  is  your  official  position  now,  Joe? 
A:  "[pauses,  laughs.]  Ah,  now  you've  got  me  stuck. 
[Leafs  through  some  papers  on  his  desk,  comes  up 
with  the  right  one.]  Principle  Lab  Technician.  " 

Joe  is  more  concerned  with  what  he  does  than 
with  what  his  job  happens  to  be  called.  This  is 
one  of  the  secrets  of  his  charm.  People  find  him 
endearing  because  he  likes  what  he  does  so  much, 
and  because  he  is  enamored  of  them  right  back.  It 
is  said  that  all  you  really  have  when  you  look  back 
on  your  life  are  the  experiences  and  relationships 
you've  had  and  your  memories  of  them.  If  that's 
true,  then  Joe  has  more  than  most. 

He  is  a  consummate  storyteller,  with  his  easy- 
going manner  and  his  gravelly,  New  England- 
accented  voice  that  dissolves  easily  and  often  into 
a  chuckle  at  a  fond  memory.  His  mind  seems  to 
work  like  a  huge,  meticulously  cross-referenced 
catalog,  and  he  effortlessly  jumps  from  section  to 
section,  finding  connections  where  there  seemed 
to  be  none  at  all. 

When  the  town  of  Clinton,  Mass.,  is  men- 
tioned— quite  incidentally — in  a  conversation  with 
Joe,  an  association  clicks  in  and  the  wheels  start 
turning.  "You  know,  last  Saturday  Clinton  hap- 
pened to  play  in  the  [high  school]  Super  Bowl 
here.  I  had  a  kid  walk  up  to  me — had  sunglasses 
on — and  he  said,  'Hey,  Joe.'  I  said  'Hi.'  He  said, 
'You  don't  remember  me,  do  you?'  I  said,  'Yes  I 
do,  you're  Kerrigan.  Where's  your  father?' 

"See,  Pauly  Kerrigan  graduated  in  '57.  He 
once  ran  92  yards  down  the  football  field.  That's 
when  they  played  both  ways — offense  and 
defense,  you  know;  we  didn't  have  many  players 
those  days.  And  his  boy  worked  with  me.  See,  we 


renovated  this  building  [Washburn]  in  1983,  and 
we  had  to  move  all  of  the  classes  down  to  Worces- 
ter Industrial  Technical  Institute.  And  he  worked 
work-study  for  me  for  a  whole  year.  Nice  kid. 
He's  working  with  his  father  now;  they  have  a 
place  down  in  iVIarlboro,  distributing  electrical 
components  and  things  to  various  companies  and 
so  forth...." 

Some  people  can  hold  your  attention  through 
the  brute  force  of  their  personality;  it  often  matters 
less  what  they're  saying  than  how  they're  saying  it. 
Joe  pulls  you  in  more  subdy,  but  just  as  strongly, 
because  what  he's  saying  to  you  resonates  with  the 
pure  simplicity  of  one  man's  thoughts  and  memo- 
ries. In  talking  to  him,  you  get  the  impression  that 
if  you  could  spend  enough  time  with  him,  you 
would  learn  every  detail  of  his  life — albeit  in  an 
almost  hopelessly  intertwined  sort  of  way. 


vW  04*  iU^Ac^U'  teA*y: 

"Well,  I  think  they're  a  little  younger.  When  I 
first  came  here  the  GTs  were  here  under  the  GI 
Bill  of  Rights,  so  they  were  older  when  they  start- 
ed. And,  of  course,  we  had  girls  here  starting  in 
1968.  But  overall... I  think  they're  pretty  much  the 
same.  The  only  thing  is  you  meet  a  lot  of  kids  now 
that  have  had  some  money — money  was  tighter  in 
those  days.  But  I  get  along  with  them  all.  They  all 
respect  me — you  treat  'em  well,  they  like  you,  and 
you  like  them. " 

Over  the  years,  Joe's  relationship  with  WPI  stu- 
dents has  necessarily  changed.  Progressing  from  a 
peer  to  a  father  figure  to,  now,  a  grandfather  fig- 
ure, Joe  has  become  more  and  more  an  "elder"  to 
those  he  instructs.  But  while  the  gap  in  their  ages 

(Continued  on  next  page) 


He  is  a  consummate 
storyteller,  with  his 
easygoing  manner 
and  his  gravelly, 
New  England- 
accented  voice  that 
dissolves  easily  and 
often  into  a  chuckle 
at  a  fond  memory. 


For  some  30  years, 
Gale  has  been  giving 
students  like  Robert 
Tuccillo  '98  hands-on 
experience  with  mater- 
ials by  having  them 
actually  manufacture 
a  small  metal  spool. 


WPI  Journal 


29 


Joe  has  watched  a 

huge  percentage  of 

WPFs  students  come 

and  go  over  the 

years.  Chances  are 

you  W  remember  the 

kindly,  helpful  man 

(who  could  be  gruff 

if  you  were  doing 

something  stupid)  in 

the  machine  shop 

who  seemed  to  know 

everything. 


In  1992,  when  he 
received  WPI's  William  R. 
Grogan  Award,  Joe  posed 
with  his  family  for  this 
portrait.  Counterclock- 
wise, Joe,  his  wife  Phyllis, 
daughter  Joanne  DiPinto, 
son  Jack  Gale,  grandson 
Joey  Gale,  daughter-in-law 
Mary  Carr  Gale,  and  twin 
grandsons  Dan  and 
Mike  Gale. 


Hey,  Joe! 

(Continued  from  previous  page) 

has  widened,  his  connection  to  his  students  seems 
to  have  changed  not  at  all. 

"We  all  remember  him  as  an  ardent  sports 
fan — one  of  our  biggest  supporters,"  says  Ferrari. 
"He  was  really  loved  by  many  of  the  students  who 
knew  him."  Says  Paul  Crivelli  '92,  "Joe  seems  a 
little  rough  on  the  surface,  but  he's  friendly  and 
talkative  once  you  know  him — and  with  more  his- 
tory than  you  can  shake  a  stick  at." 

In  1971,  WPI's  students  made  clear  their 
strong  bond  with  Joe  by  selecting  him  the  first 
staff  member  ever  inducted  into  Skull,  WPI's 
senior  honorary  society  and  one  of  its  most  exclu- 
sive organizations.  "I  wasn't  expecting  it,"  Joe 
remembers.  "I  was  working  a  high  school  basket- 
ball game  and  I  was  tapped  outside  the  side  door 
of  Harrington  Auditorium.  Charlie  McNulty,  the 
basketball  coach,  and  Professor  Bob  Pritchard,  the 
athletic  director,  told  me  to  go  ahead  and  they'd 
take  care  of  things.  That  was  really  great.  Each 
year  we  have  a  banquet  for  any  of  the  old  mem- 
bers who  can  make  it  and  the  new  candidates  to 
meet  each  other.  It's  quite  interesting  to  see 
where  everyone  has  gone  and  so  forth." 

In  1992,  the  Institute  also  paid  tribute  to  Joe 
by  presenting  him  with  the  William  R.  Grogan 
Award.  Named  for  WPI's  dean  emeritus  of  under- 
graduate studies,  who  incidentally  completed  his 
undergraduate  education  at  WPI  less  than  a  year 
before  Joe  reported  to  work,  the  award  honors 


extraordinary  service  to  the  Institute  and  its  stu- 
dents. When  Grogan  learned  that  Joe  would 
receive  the  award,  this  is  what  he  wrote  to  him: 
"I  want  to  tell  you  how  proud  I  am  that  you  will 
receive  the  award  named  for  me.  I  cannot  think  of 
anyone  more  appropriate  to  receive  it,  or  anyone 
who  I  would  rather  see  receive  it.  Joe,  you  have 
been  a  great  contributor  to  WPI  and  its  students 
over  the  years." 

vW  e*.  &**wm-«*v  t^c^Xc^cc: 

'We've  been  making  that  spool  [in  ME1800J  for 
about  SO  years.  There's  usually  a  waiting  list  to 
get  in  the  class.  So?ne  of  them  will  take  it  in  their 
senior  year,  not  necessarily  for  credit  but  just  to 
have  the  experience,  to  see  how  things  are  made. 
Because  you  can  read  all  the  books,  see  all  the  pic- 
tures, but  you've  got  to  get  your  hands  into  it. " 

The  main  thing  Joe  imparts  to  the  fledgling  engi- 
neers who  pass  briefly  under  his  wing  is  an  appre- 
ciation for  the  actual  work  done  to  materials  and 
parts  by  some  of  the  processes  they  learn  about. 
He  shows  you  where  and  how  the  theoretical 
knowledge  gained  in  the  classroom  merges  with 
the  practical,  tangible  aspects  of  manufacturing — 
for  the  first  time,  in  the  case  of  many  students. 

In  ME  1800,  Materials  Selection  and  Manu- 
facturing Processes — or  just  "Grunge"  in  student 
lingo — students  are  exposed  to  a  variety  of  hands- 
on  processes.  "We  start  off  with  casting,"  Joe 
explains.  "We  have  them  put  the  Styrofoam  parts 


30 


Winter  1996 


together,  but  we  pour  the  metal,  for  safety  rea- 
sons. When  the  castings  are  ready,  they  cut  off  the 
excess  gating  system  and  then  each  student  has 
one.  They've  actually  seen  the  thing  made. 

"Half  the  class  then  goes  to  the  machine  shop 
to  do  their  turning,  milling,  drilling,  tapping  and 
so  forth,  and  the  other  halt  starts  on  welding. 
Then  they  switch.  We  only  have  so  many  contact 
hours  with  them  to  get  it  all  done,  but  a  lot  of 
them  end  up  getting  interested  in  materials  and 
switch  to  that  later  on." 

It  is  in  this  class,  which  is  extremely  popular, 
that  Joe  has  watched  a  huge  percentage  of  WPFs 
students  come  and  go  over  the  years.  Chances  are, 
even  if  you  couldn't  remember  his  name,  you'd 
remember  the  kindly,  helpful  man  (who  could  be 
gruff  if  you  were  doing  something  stupid)  in  the 
machine  shop  who  seemed  to  know  everything, 
and  who  could  launch  into  a  fascinating  story  at 
a  moment's  notice. 

Joe  enjoys  the  class  so  much  because  he 
believes  you  have  to  teach  people  to  do,  not  just  to 
know.  And  it  heartens  him  when  he  hears  that  it 
has  helped  someone.  "We  had  a  student  here  may- 
be five  or  six  years  ago  who  went  to  work  for  GE  in 
Pittsfield,"  Joe  says,  relating  the  story  she  told  to 
him.  "They  were  doing  some  kind  of  silver  solder- 
ing, and  she  said,  i  can  do  that — I've  done  that.'  So 
one  day  one  of  them  told  her  to  go  ahead  and  try 
it — anil  she  did  it.  They  were  standing  there  with 
their  mouths  open.  She  became  a  supervisor  in  six 
or  seven  months — they  just  singled  her  out." 

Ybu  might  think  that,  having  been  at  WPI 
for  50  years,  and  as  comfortable  as  he  is 
here,  and  as  much  as  he  loves  the  place, 
that  Joe  would  never  retire.  You'd  be  wrong. 
"No,  I'll  retire  before  too  long,"  he  says.  "We'll 
see  how  it  goes." 

Joe  and  his  wile,  Phyllis,  will  celebrate  their 
49th  wedding  anniversary  in  June.  Joe  says  they'd 
like  to  do  a  little  traveling.  "We'll  probably  go 
down  to  Florida,  though  not  to  stay,"  he  says.  Joe 
says  he  has  some  good  reasons  to  remain  in  the 
Worcester  area.  His  son,  Jack,  has  been  the  golf 
pro  for  the  Tatnuck  Country  Club  in  Worcester 
for  many  years;  he  is  also  one  of  only  a  small 
number  of  Master  Professional  Golf  Pros  in  the 
country,  an  honor  bestowed  on  him  four  years  ago 
by  the  Professional  Golfers  Association.  Jack  and 
his  wife,  Mary,  have  three  sons.  Joe  and  Phyllis' 
daughter,  Joanne  DiPinto,  and  her  husband, 
Alfred,  live  right  next  door;  Joanne  owns  and 
operates  the  J. P.  Cutter  Hair  Salon  on  Park 
Avenue  in  Worcester. 

Joe  is  also  as  much  a  part  of  the  greater 
Worcester  community  as  is  he  is  the  greater  WPI 
community.  He  was  the  commander  of  the 
Worcester  Auxiliary  Police  Force  from  1949  until 
his  retirement  in  1986.  With  the  rank  of  captain, 
he  was  in  charge  of  a  force  of  75  officers.  He  says 
he  helped  keep  the  peace  at  more  parades  than  he 


w^^s 


can  remember,  but  his  most  vivid  memories  are  of 
the  many  hours  he  worked  in  the  aftermath  of  the 
devastating  tornado  of  June  9,  1953,  which  tore  a 
deadly  swath  through  central  Massachusetts.  Joe  is 
also  past  commander  of  VFW  Post  6907  in  West 
Boylston,  Mass. 

And  when  he  retires,  what  about  die  rest  of  his 
many  interests  at  WPI?  "I'll  still  be  involved;  work 
it  around  other  things,"  he  says.  "A  lot  of  people 
work  here  and  they  go  and  you  don't  ever  see  them 
again.  But,  hey,  I've  been  around  here  since  1927 
or  '28.  One  of  my  uncles  was  the  first  watchman 
they  had;  I  used  to  come  up  and  make  a  round 
from  6  p.m.  until  8:30,  and  my  father  would  pick 
me  up  and  bring  me  home.  I've  watched  diis  place 
grow.  I'd  have  a  hard  time  divorcing  it." 

Asked  how  he  would  feel  should  WPI  choose 
to  name  something  in  his  honor,  Joe  has  this  to 
say:  "Oh  sure,  whatever  they  wanted  to  do.  The 
thing  is,  you'd  like  to  see  something  done  before 
you  pass  away.  For  example,  A.J.  was  still  here 
when  they  named  the  field  after  him.  Yes,  that 
would  be  great." 

Envisioning  the  Joe  Gale  Machine  Shop, 
or  whatever  it  might  be,  you  can  see  a  picture  of 
Joe  working  with  a  student — getting  his  hands 
into  it — alongside  a  plaque.  Whatever  else  it  says 
about  Joe  and  his  many  years  of  loyal  service, 
the  plaque  should  pay  Joe  what  he  must  consider 
the  highest  compliment  of  all — that  he  is,  truly, 
a  great,  great  gentleman.    Fl 

Beit  received  bachelor's  degrees  in  mechanical  engineer- 
ing and  the  humanities  at  WPI  before  joining  How?net 
Refurbishment  Inc.,  where  he  is  now  a  turbine  blade 
engineer.  His  profile  of  Professor  Jack  Boyd,  which  ran 
in  the  Winter  1994  WPI  Journal,  was  completed  as 
pa  it  of  his  Major  Qualifying  Project  in  the  humanities. 


Early  in  his  WPI  career, 
Joe  learned  to  weld 
from  Professor  Carl 
Johnson.  Since  then  he 
has  passed  that  knowl- 
edge along  to  hundreds 
of  students,  including 
Astrid  Gunawan  '99. 


WPI  Journal 


31 


FINAL     WORD 


Normandin  Sisters 
Thrive  in  a  "Man's  World" 


By  Ruth  Trask 

When  Jill  Normandin  '88,  Jody 
Normandin  '90  and  Hollybeth 
Normandin  '95  decided  to 
enrolled  at  WPI,  they  knew  it  would  not 
be  easy,  as  women,  to  succeed  in  the  male- 
dominated  field  of  engineering.  But  they 
knew  something  else:  nothing  under  the  sun 
could  keep  them  from  trying. 

"We  all  have  strong,  athletic  back- 
grounds, so  we  were  used  to  competition," 
says  Jody,  who  was  named  to  the  All-New 
England  Women's  Basketball  Team  in 
1989.  "Also,  our  mother  was  behind  us  all 
the  way."  Adds  Hollybeth,  "Although 
divorced  and  physically  challenged,  she  was 
always  there  for  us.  She  was  our  strength." 

The  Normandin  sisters  say  their  mother 
was  astonished,  at  first,  at  their  choice  of 
professions.  Still,  their  decisions  did  not 
come  completely  out  of  the  blue.  Their 
father  and  most  of  their  uncles  are  in  engi- 
neering-related fields.  But  they  gave  no 
indication  that  they  might  follow  in  those 
footsteps  until  they  were  in  their  teens. 

As  a  child,  Jill  invented  her  own  lan- 
guage, which  she  shared  with  her  sisters  and 
friends.  She  also  rode  her  horse  in  regional 
competitions.  "I  thought  she  might  become 
a  linguist  or  a  veterinarian,"  Sandy  Norman- 
din says. 

"But  there  was  one  clue  that  she  might 
do  well  in  engineering,"  she  adds.  "As  a 
teenager  Jill  worked  as  a  cashier  at  a  super- 
market, and  she  could  compute  the  running 
totals  faster  in  her  head  than  she  could  with 
the  cash  register." 

According  to  Hollybeth,  Jill  also  showed 
mechanical  ingenuity  by  coping  with  little 
disasters  at  the  family  farm  in  Westminster, 
Mass.  "Once,  she  thawed  out  the  water 
pump.  Another  time,  she  diverted  rainwater 
streaming  down  a  nearby  hill  so  it  wouldn't 
erode  wide  trenches  in  our  barn  floor.  She 
could  also  fix  cars." 


"It  was  Hollybeth  who  really  astounded 
me,"  her  mother  recalls.  "I  never  thought 
engineering  would  be  of  any  interest  to  her. 
As  a  young  girl,  she  loved  literature  and 
would  stay  up  all  night  reading." 

Though  they  had  backgrounds  and 
interests  that  might  well  have  led  them  in 
other  directions,  all  three  sisters  enrolled  at 
WPI,  with  Jill  leading  the  parade  in  1984. 


"/  love  my  job,  but  I 
would  probably  never 

have  gotten  into 

engineering  if  it  hadnh 

been  for  the  support  of 

my  parents.  My  high 

school  guidance  counselor 

made  it  quite  clear  that 

engineering  was  no  place 

for  a  woman" 

— Jody  Normandin 

"After  graduating  from  high  school,  I 
visited  several  colleges,"  she  says.  "WPI 
really  turned  me  around,  as  far  as  being  a 
veterinarian  was  concerned.  As  an  engineer, 
I  decided,  not  only  would  I  have  a  rewarding 
career,  I  could  afford  to  own  and  maintain 
my  own  horse." 

Jill  Normandin  graduated  with  a  B.S.  in 
electrical  engineering  and  then  completed 
her  M.B.A.  at  Northeastern  University. 
During  the  past  few  years,  she  worked  as  a 


senior  sales  engineer  for  Lambda  Electron- 
ics, a  large  international  company.  She  was 
recendy  promoted  to  marketing  manager  at 
the  firm's  Long  Island,  N.Y.,  headquarters. 

"Lambda  Electronics  manufactures 
DC-DC  and  AC-DC  converters  and  power 
supplies,"  she  says.  "The  company  is  heavily 
male-dominated  in  the  areas  of  design,  sys- 
tems and  sales." 

Jill  says  her  electrical  engineering  classes 
at  WPI  prepared  her  well  to  work  in  that 
environment.  "I  was  one  of  three  females  in 
a  class  with  more  than  100  males.  I'm  in  a 
similar  minority  when  I  attend  my  compa- 
ny's national  conferences." 

Sometimes  it  can  be  an  advantage  to  be 
a  woman  in  a  man's  world.  All  three  sisters 
say  women  are  sometimes  sought  out  for 
engineering  jobs,  although  once  they  are 
hired,  all  engineers — male  and  female — 
must  prove  that  they  have  the  necessary 
skills  to  succeed.  In  sales,  Jill  says,  "it's  not 
necessarily  terrible"  to  stand  out. 

"But  I  still  have  to  contend  with  credi- 
bility problems.  I  have  to  speak  more  tech- 
nically, better  and  faster  than  my  male 
counterparts  when  I  meet  customers.  The 
credibility  problem  is  even  more  acute  in 
the  international  scene.  Sometimes  women 
engineers  are  not  taken  seriously  overseas." 

Jill  is  considering  expanding  her  techni- 
cal horizons  by  pursuing  a  Ph.D.  in  histori- 
cal architecture.  "It's  a  far  cry  from  my 
introductory  EE  courses,"  she  says  "but  it 
would  add  to  a  solid  engineering  education." 
She  is  encouraging  her  sisters  to  also  pursue 
graduate  degrees. 

Jody  Normandin,  who  followed  Jill  to 
WPI  in  1986,  received  her  B.S.  in  biomed- 
ical engineering  with  high  distinction.  She 
works  for  GE  Electrical  Distribution  and 
Control  Products  in  Plainville,  Conn., 
where  she  is  a  team  leader  responsible  for 
seeing  several  product  lines  from  design 


32 


WINTER  1996 


From  left,  Sandy  Normandin  and  daughters  Jill,  Hollybeth  and  Jody  at  Commencement  in  1995. 


through  delivery.  "I  head  a  team  of  nine 
male  engineers,"  she  says.  "We  focus  mostly 
on  items  like  motor  starters  and  pilot 
devices." 

Jody  says  her  job  has  required  her  to 
become  an  expert  in  international  standards, 
since  virtually  every  foreign  company  has  its 
own  standards  for  quality.  She  makes  fre- 
quent trips  to  Europe,  especially  Italy,  to 
meet  with  customers.  "The  Italians  were 
astonished  when  they  first  saw  me,"  she  says. 
"It  seems  there  are  no  young  female  engi- 
neers in  Italy. 

"I  love  my  job,"  she  says,  "but  I  would 
probably  never  have  gotten  into  engineering 
if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  support  of  my  par- 
ents. My  high  school  guidance  counselor 
made  it  quite  clear  that  engineering  was  no 
place  for  a  woman.  Now  I  go  around  speak- 
ing to  young  women,  telling  them  they  can 
be  whatever  they  want  to  be,  even  in  a  so- 
called  man's  world." 

Jody  says  she  has  an  excellent  working 
relationship  with  the  all-male  group  she 
supervises.  She  gets  along  so  well  with  the 
men  around  her  because  she  refuses  to  be 
intimidated.  "Playing  sports  has  helped  me 


overcome  all  sorts  of  fears,"  she  says. 
"Today  I  play  more  basketball  than  I  did 
when  I  was  at  WPI.  I'm  trying  to  get  a  semi- 
professional  league  for  women  started.  I 
even  play  on  coed  teams." 

Inspired  by  her  sisters'  successes,  Holly- 
beth Normandin  enrolled  at  the  Institute  in 
1991.  "My  friends  who  went  to  liberal  arts 
colleges  rarely  found  jobs  when  the  econo- 
my started  to  go  downhill,"  she  says.  "But 
Jill  and  Jody  did." 

But  the  real  reason  she  settled  on  WPI 
was  her  mother's  inability  to  find  corrective 
shoes  suitable  for  her  feet,  which  have  been 
impaired  by  spina  bifida.  "It  was  apparent 
that  she  could  have  been  helped  by  new 
materials  and  new  shoe  designs  that  were  in 
use  in  other  countries,  but  that  had  not  yet 
gained  medical  recognition  in  this  country. 
Her  problems  finding  the  right  shoes  led  me 
into  biomedical  engineering." 

As  a  mechanical  engineering  major, 
Hollybeth  pursued  a  biomedical  engineering 
specialization,  completing  several  indepen- 
dent study  projects  and  her  Major  Qualify- 
ing Project  in  that  area.  She  also  took 
advantage  of  WPI's  Global  Perspective 


Program,  traveling  to  Venice  in  her  sopho- 
more year  as  part  of  a  project  team  that 
helped  the  Italian  government  deal  with 
flooding  problems  in  the  city's  canal  system. 
Interested  in  the  theater,  she  wrote  a  play 
for  her  Humanities  Sufficiency  project. 

She  is  now  a  manufacturing  engineer 
at  HemaSure  Inc.,  in  xVIarlboro,  Mass.,  a 
start-up  company  that  makes  blood-filtering 
devices.  The  company's  first  product  filters 
leukocytes  from  blood. 

Although  she  is  the  only  woman  in  a 
five-person  department,  she  says  that  has 
been  a  problem  only  when  dealing  with  peo- 
ple outside  the  company,  who  sometimes 
don't  take  women  engineers  seriously. 
"This  is  a  challenge  to  me  professionally 
and  personally,"  she  says.  "The  only  criti- 
cism I  respect  is  criticism  of  my  actual  per- 
formance." 

Now  that  all  three  Normandin  sisters 
have  established  successful  engineering 
careers  on  their  own,  they're  thinking  of 
collaborating  on  a  joint  venture.  "We  hope 
to  pool  our  family  resources  and  start  our 
own  business,"  Jill  says.  "It  would  be  inter- 
esting to  see  all  this  energv  harnessed!" 


lllll,l!llll"lmlllIM,lIT,l,Illilll,lll,illlHI 


*   133815  TI3a3H13n  6 

socio  *#  iaos  ly-yuo  ***#**#*9t?oaEood 


HJGBINS  KEDEDIUATEU      M  UEN  I  ENNIAL  l"UH  CLtU  I HIUML  cnuinecmnu 


HLumni  orcHiv  uui 


WORCESTER     POLYTECHNIC     INSTITUTE     IN     WALTHAM 


The  road  to  success  just  got  shorter. 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
is  coming  to  Waltham. 


exit  27B 

Waltham 

RIGHT 
LANE 


I'm  interested.  Please 
send  me  information  about 
WPI's  Waltham  Campus. 

J  Graduate  Certificate  Programs 

□  UNIX/C  and  C++  Programming  Programs 

J  Professional  Development  Seminars 


WPI  is  known  for  academic  excellence  in 
technical  education,  a  practical  application 
to  the  challenges  of  the  marketplace,  and  a 
faculty  of  renowned  academicians  and  industry 
experts  who  are  full-time  practitioners  in  their 
fields.  Now  we're  adding  a  convenient 
Waltham  location  for  professionals  seeking 
career  advancement  or  personal  enrichment. 

If  you  have  a  Bachelor's  degree  and  are 
looking  to  advance  your  technical  or  manage- 
ment skills,  our  Waltham  campus  will  offer 
evening  Graduate  Certificate  Programs 
in  Computer  Science  and  Management 
in  the  following  areas: 

■  Computer  &  Communications  Networks 

■  Software  Engineering  &  Interface  Design 

■  Technology  Marketing 

■  Management  of  Technology 

Credits  may  be  applied  towards  a  WPI  graduate 
degree.  Formal  admission  to  a  Certificate 
Program  is  not  required  to  take  a  course. 


Or,  you  can  enroll  in  WPI's  accelerated 
UNIX  System/C  and  C++ 
Programming  Certificate  Program: 

■  Full-time  days  or  part-time  evenings 

■  Hands-on,  leading  edge  training 

■  Successful  outplacement  record 

WPI's  Waltham  campus  will  also  offer 
Professional  Development  Seminars 

in  World-Class  Manufacturing,  Quality 
Improvement, 
Project  Man- 
agement and 
Management 
Development. 

Classes  at 

our  Waltham 

campus  begin  this  September.  Start  preparing 

for  your  success  now  by  mailing  in  the  coupon 

or  attending  our  next  Information  Session 

on  Wednesday,  August  7  in  Waltham. 


Information 
Session 

Wednesday,  August  7, 
6pm,  at  our  Waltham 
Campus,  60  Hickory  Drive. 
Call800-WPI-9717. 


NAME 


ADDRESS 

CITY 

STATE 

ZIP 

PHONE  -  DAY:  (       ) 

EVENING:  (       ) 

Worcester 
Polytechnic 
A   Institute 

™-  Waltham  Campus 


800-WPI-9717 

web:  http://www.wpi.edu 


Worcesfer  Polytechnic  Institute  Waltham  Campus,  100  Institute  Re/., 
Worcester,  MA  01609  Fax:  (617)  466-8499,  E-mail:  jernberg@wpi.edu 


V< >l.l  Ml   XCK,  NO.  2,  SPRING  1996 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


An  Electric  Century  by  William  R.  Grogan  '46 

Overcoming  tierce  faculty  opposition,  a  physics  professor  held  tight  to  his 
dream  and  propelled  WPI  into  the  Electric  Age  a  century  ago.  Here  is  the 
remarkable  story  of  the  founding  of  WPI's  electrical  engineering  program. 

Page  6 

Alumni  Speak  Out  by  \  lichael  IV.  Dorsey 
Did  you  know  that  96  percent  of  graduates  would  recommend  WPI    ^' 
to  prospective  students?  That's  just  one  of  the  findings  of  a  recent  wide- 
ranging  survey  of  WPI  graduates.  Here's  what  else  our  alumni  had  to  say. 

Page  13 

A  Mechanical  Marvel  by  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45 and  Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Over  the  past  128  years,  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Department 

has  had  several  homes  on  campus.  But  none  can  match  the  beauty 

and  functionality  of  the  recently  renovated  and  expanded 

Higgins  Laboratories. 

Page  19 

The  Wizard  of  Asheville  by  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45 

For  generations  of  WPI  students,  John  van  Alstyne's  inspiring  teaching 

and  compassionate  counsel  represented  a  special  sort  of  magic.  Now  a 

children's  book  author  and  illustrator  have  turned  Van  A  into  a  real  wizard. 

Page  28 

DEPARTMENTS 


Advance  Word  Happy  Birthday,  Mr.  Salisbury,  by  Michael  IV.  Dorsey.  Page  2 

Explorations  Students  Expand  the  Frontiers  of  Medicine,  by  Bonnie  Gelbwasser.  Page  4 

Letters  It's  Time  To  Give  WPI  a  New  Name;  Proud  of  Sacco's  Achievement;  Stealing  the  Goat 
Was  a  "Serious  Act";  It  Was  Alpha  Phi  Omega.  Page  3 1 

Final  Word  Big  Character  Has  Big  Plans,  by  Joan  Killough-Miller.  Page  32 

On  the  cover:  The  interior  of  Atwater  Kent  Laboratories  as  it  looked  not  long  after  its  completion  in  1907. 

The  huge  building  was  constructed  for  the  Electrical  Engineering  Department,  then  just  10  years  old. 

This  year  WPI  celebrates  the  department's  centennial.  Story  on  page  6.  Back  cover:  The  new  addition  to 

Higgins  Laboratories.  WPI  recently  rededicated  a  completely  restored  Higgins  Labs,  home  to  mechanical 

engineering  for  more  than  half  a  century.  Story  on  page  19.  Photo  by  Robert  Benson. 

Staff  of  the  WPI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  \V.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelbwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask  • 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Samuel  Mencow  '37,  chairman,  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firlajr.  '60.  Joel  P.  Greene  '69,  William  R.  Grogan 

'46,  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  V\TI  Alumni  Association  by  the  Office  of 

I  niversity  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  \"t.  Printed  in  the  U.S.A. 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  official  11 77  policies.  We  welcome  letters  to  the  editor.  .  Iddress  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  Journal,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280  •  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  Fax:  (508)  831-5604  •  Electronii  Mail,  wpi-journal@wpi.edu  •  World  Wide  H 
http://www.wpi.edu/AboutL  rs/News/Journal/  •  Postmaster:  Ifundeliverable,  please  send  Form  J  579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  i  mi  tents  ©  1 996,  Worcestei-  Polytechnu  Institute. 


ADVANCE     WORD 


Happy  Birthday,  Mr.  Salisbury 


By  Michael  Dorsey 


Anyone  familiar  with  the  founding 
and  early  history  of  WPI  knows  the 
name  Stephen  Salisbury.  Salisbury 
was  one  of  the  primary  forces  that  enabled 
the  sketchy  plan  of  tinware  maker  John 
Boynton  for  a  new  technical  institute  and  the 
dream  of  prosperous  wire  manufacturer  Ich- 
abod  Washburn  of  a  training  academy  for 
mechanics  to  be  blended  into  one  of  the 
nation's  earliest  and  most  innovative  techno- 
logical universities.  Salisbury  provided  the 
land  for  the  campus,  supported  the  young 
institution  generously,  and  presided  over  its 
board  of  directors  until  his  death  in  1884. 

The  Stephen  Salisbury  who  figured  so 
prominently  in  the  birth  of  WPI  was  the 
second  Worcester  resident  to  bear  that 
name.  To  a  significant  degree,  he  owed  the 
fortune  he  shared  with  the  young  Institute 
and  his  position  as  the  most  prominent 
member  of  the  Worcester  community  to  the 
success  and  hard  work  of  his  father.  Because 
Stephen  Salisbury  I  played  no  role  in  WPI's 
history  (he  died  more  than  three  decades 
before  its  founding),  his  story  is  not  as  well 
known  to  members  of  the  WPI  community 
as  those  of  the  son  and  grandson  who  con- 
tinued his  name.  This  fall,  Worcester  will 
celebrate  the  250th  anniversary  of  the  birth 
of  the  first  Stephen  Salisbury;  we  thought 
this  might  be  a  good  time  to  learn  more 
about  this  patriarch. 

Stephen  Salisbury  was  born  in  Boston 
on  Sept.  25,1 746.  He  was  the  youngest  of 
the  1 1  children  of  Nicholas  and  Martha  Sal- 
isbury (six  of  whom  survived  to  adulthood). 
Nicholas,  son  of  a  Boston  mariner,  made  a 
living  as  a  barber  before  his  wife's  inheri- 
tance enabled  him  to  set  himself  up  as  a 
storekeeper.  Martha's  uncle,  John  Elbridge, 
who  was  comptroller  of  His  Majesty's  Cus- 
toms House  in  Bristol,  England,  bequeathed 
his  sister  and  her  heirs  £8,000 — a  veritable 
fortune  at  the  time — which  became  the  seed 
of  the  Salisbury  family's  wealth. 

Nicholas  Salisbury  died  when  Stephen 
was  just  2  years  old.  Martha,  who  by  all 
accounts  was  a  strong-minded  and  cantan- 
kerous woman,  continued  to  operate  the 
store  and  support  their  children.  Stephen's 
older  brother  Samuel  took  his  portion  of  the 


Elbridge  fortune  (along  with  his  inheritance 
from  his  father)  and  opened  his  own  store  in 
Boston.  When  Stephen  turned  21,  Samuel 
took  him  on  as  a  partner,  creating  the  firm 
of  S&S  Salisbury. 

At  that  time,  Boston  was  growing  dra- 
matically and  many  traders  were  setting  up 
shops  to  serve  the  teeming  city.  Samuel 
could  see  that  opportunities  for  growth  for 
his  business  were  limited  unless  he  branched 
out  beyond  the  city.  Looking  for  a  suitable 
location  for  a  second  store,  he  settled  on 
Worcester.  Though  still  a  small  agricultural 
community,  it  was  the  seat  of  a  young  but 
growing  county  and  was  well  served  by 
roads  to  Boston,  Providence  and  Hartford. 

In  1767  he  set  Stephen  up  as  a  trader  in 
Worcester.  Holly  V.  Izard,  research  curator 
for  the  Salisbury  Mansion,  a  property  of  the 
Worcester  Historical  Museum,  has  studied 
the  extensive  collection  of  Salisbury  family 
correspondence  owned  by  the  American 
Antiquarian  Society.  She  says  the  letters 
from  Stephen  to  his  brother  in  those  early 
days  "reveal  the  younger  man's  reluctance  to 
make  the  fledgling  town  his  home. 

"Stephen  felt  as  though  he'd  gotten  the 
short  end  of  the  stick,"  Izard  says.  "Worces- 
ter was  quite  rural — nothing  like  the  busy, 
sophisticated  city  he'd  grown  up  in.  In  his 
letters,  he  described  Worcester  as  'such  a 
solitary  place.'  Though  he  desperately  want- 
ed to  be  back  in  Boston,  he  wrote  to  his 


brother,  'I  will  accept  this  as  my  lot.'  And  of 
course,  he  didn't  have  much  choice.  He  was 
dependent  on  his  bother  for  his  livelihood." 
The  Salisbury  store  was  among  the  ear- 
liest in  Worcester.  It  was  certainly  the  first 
with  a  direct  link  to  the  wharves  of  Boston. 
Because  the  Salisbury  brothers  were  their 
own  middlemen,  they  could  sell  hardware, 
dry  goods  and  produce  at  lower  prices  than 
their  competitors.  From  the  start,  their  store 


was  a  great  success. 


Stephen  proved  an  able  merchant, 
though  he  lamented  the  long  hours  and  the 
habits  of  his  customers,  who,  unlike  Boston 
shoppers,  seemed  to  have  no  concept  of  nor- 
mal business  hours.  "They  come  just  when  it 
soot  them  at  Break  of  Day  Sometimes  at 
Ten  &  Eleven  o'clock  at  Night  &  some- 
times Later....,"  he  wrote  to  Samuel. 

By  1771  the  Worcester  store  was  suc- 
cessful enough  that  the  Salisbury  brothers 
decided  to  invest  some  of  their  profits  in 
land.  Stephen  had  his  eye  on  a  large  farm 
that  Joseph  Waldo  had  recently  inherited 
from  his  father,  Cornelius.  But  for  unknown 
reasons  (Izard  says  Stephen's  hot  temper 
may  have  been  a  factor),  Waldo  sold  it 
instead  to  Boston's  John  Hancock.  Stephen 
fired  off  an  impassioned  letter  to  his  broth- 
er, who  quietly  negotiated  behind  the  scenes 
and  convinced  Hancock  to  sell  the  land  to 
him  and  Stephen. 

In  subsequent  years,  the  brothers  added 
to  their  land  holdings,  ultimately  acquiring 
several  hundred  acres  that  stretched  from 
what  is  now  Lincoln  Square  in  Worcester 
north  to  the  border  with  the  town  of  Hold- 
en.  It  was  some  of  this  land  that  Stephen  II 
gave  to  WPI.  The  brothers  also  invested 
their  money  in  bank  stock,  shipping  stock, 
mortgages  and  personal  loans.  By  one 
account,  Stephen  Salisbury  I  was  the  wealth- 
iest man  in  Worcester  County  at  the  time  of 
his  death. 

In  1772  Salisbury  contracted  with  a 
builder  in  Hardwick,  Mass.,  to  construct  a 
house  on  the  farm.  Designed  to  resemble 
Samuel's  house,  "it  was,  in  plan,  old  fash- 
ioned inside,  but  it  had  a  beautiful  Georgian 
facade,"  Izard  says.  More  than  half  of  the 
structure  was  given  over  to  the  Salisbury 


SPRING  1996  I  ' 


store,  and  Stephen  shared  the 
rest  with  his  shopkeepers,  hired 
girls  and  farm  laborers. 

As  revolution  began  to 
foment,  Boston  became  a  dan- 
gerous place  to  live.  In  1772 
the  Boston  Assembly  threat- 
ened succession  from  England. 
The  following  year,  citizens 
protested  an  excessive  duty  by 
throwing  boxes  of  tea  into 
Boston  Harbor.  England  ■■flDH 

responded  in  1774  by  closing 
the  harbor,  and  the  occupying 
British  soldiers  began  looting         ■  •* 
and  burning  buildings  in  the  city  deserted 
by  those  who  chose  to  flee. 

In  1775  Samuel  decided  to  close  the 
Boston  store  and  move  his  wife  and  chil- 
dren, as  well  as  his  mother  and  his  unmar- 
ried sister  Sally,  out  of  town.  The  arrival  of 
family  and  friends  from  Boston  surely  lifted 
Stephen's  spirits,  even  as  they  crowded  his 
house,  Izard  says.  "During  all  of  his  time  in 
Worcester,  Stephen  was  never  really  of 
Worcester,"  she  notes.  "He  remained  a 
Bostonian.  His  social  circle  was  confined  to 
Boston  evacuees." 

After  the  war,  Samuel  returned  to 
Boston  with  his  wife  and  children,  leaving 
Martha  and  Sally  to  live  with  Stephen  in 
Worcester.  Izard  says  Martha  Salisbury  had 
had  a  difficult  relationship  with  Samuel's 
wife,  and  may  have  chosen  to  remain  with 
Stephen  because  he  was  single.  It  was  not 
the  town  that  drew  her,  she  notes.  "Martha 
disliked  Worcester.  She  even  tried  to  go 
back  to  Boston  during  the  war,  but  Samuel 
persuaded  her  to  stay." 

Martha  presided  over  the  Salisbury 
Mansion  until  her  death  in  1792.  A  few 
years  later,  Stephen,  while  in  Boston  to  help 
Samuel  manage  the  business  during  the  bus\ 
fall  season,  met  Elizabeth  Tuckerman,  a 
member  of  a  well-to-do  mercantile  family 
and  22  years  his  junior.  They  were  married 
in  1797.  Elizabeth  found  Worcester  a  lonely 
place  and  returned  to  Boston  often  to  visit 
family  and  to  acquire  new  furnishings  and 
decorations  for  the  house.  Stephen  also  lav- 
ished attention  on  the  mansion  and  grounds 


Right,  Elizabeth  Tuckerman  Salisbury- 
Above,  Worcester  as  it  looked  at  the  time 
of  Stephen  Salisbury  I's  death  in  1829. 

Stephen  and  Elizabeth  had  three  chil- 
dren: Stephen  II  (b.  1798),  Elizabeth  (b. 
1800)  and  Edward  (b.  1803).  Elizabeth  died 
at  the  age  of  three  and  Edward  at  six,  leav- 
ing only  Stephen.  After  Stephen  completed 
grammar  school,  he  attended  Leicester 
Academy  for  two  years  and  then  received 
private  instruction  from  a  local  minister 
before  entering  Harvard  in  1813. 

In  1807  Samuel  wrote  to  Stephen 
proposing  that  they  dissolve  the  trading 
business,  and  in  1812,  when  America  again 
went  to  war  with  England  (and  when  Eng- 
land, again,  cut  off  the  flow  of  goods  into 
Boston  Harbor),  the  brothers  no  longer 
engaged  in  trade.  Stephen,  instead,  devoted 
his  energies  to  farming.  With  his  hired 
hands,  he  continued  to  tend  to  his  cattle, 
swine,  apple  and  pear  orchards,  and  field 
crops  until  his  death  in  1829. 

Stephen  II  inherited  his  father's  fortune 
and  invested  it  in  Worcester,  a  city  that  was 
poised  to  explode  into  a  major  industrial 
center.  He  turned  over  the  operation  of  the 
farm  to  a  foreman,  as  his  interests  lay  more 
with  the  mills,  machine  shops  and  factories 
that  were  beginning  to  rise  from  the  former 
Worcester  farmland  and  forests.  In  1833  he 
married  Rebekah  Dean;  the  couple  had  one 
son,  Stephen  III,  who  never  married.  The 
Salisbury  lineage  ended  in  Worcester  with 
Stephen  Ill's  death  in  1905. 


But  the  Salisbury  legacy  continues  to 
this  day  in  the  city.  For  while  the  first 
Stephen  Salisbury  never  truly  felt  at  home 
here,  his  descendants  put  down  deep  roots 
and  made  enduring  contributions  to  the 
economic  and  cultural  development  of  the 
growing  urban  center.  The  son  and  grand- 
son provided  venture  capital  for  many 
nascent  businesses,  helping  turn  the  city  into 
a  hotbed  for  manufacturing  and  innovation. 
Both  led  the  board  of  trustees  of  WPI, 
which  contributed  still  further  to  the  city's 
growth.  Institute  Park,  adjacent  to  the  WPI 
campus,  was  a  gift  to  the  city  from  Stephen 
II,  and  Stephen  III  made  possible  the 
Worcester  Art  Museum  and  provided  sub- 
stantial support  to  the  Worcester  Society  of 
Antiquity  (now  the  Worcester  Historical 
Museum)  and  the  American  Antiquarian 
Society.  In  short,  Worcester  owes  an  eternal 
debt  of  gratitude  to  the  Salisbury's,  most 
especially,  perhaps,  to  that  young  man 
who — so  reluctantly — established  this  gen- 
erous and  enlightened  family  here  more 
than  two  hundred  years  ago. 


/P I  Journal 


EXPLORATIONS 


Students  Expand 
the  Frontiers  of  Medicine 


fiiw 


"Flashes  of  Light" 
Help  Breed  a  New 
Business 

Stem  cells  are  Morey  Kraus'  passion  and 
profession.  Kraus,  a  doctoral  candidate  in 
bioprocess  engineering  at  WPI,  has 
spent  much  of  the  last  two  years  working 
with  a  class  of  stem  cells  known  as  tHSCs 
(Totipotent  Hematapoietic  Stem  Cells). 
The  body  uses  these  unspecialized  cells, 
which  can  be  found  in  the  blood  and 
bone  marrow  and  in  the  peripheral 
blood  in  the  umbilical  cord,  to  produce 
a  variety  of  blood  cells. 

When  cancer  patients  undergo 
chemotherapy  or  radiation,  healthy 
stem  cells  are  often  destroyed  along 
with  the  malignant  cells  targeted  by 
the  therapy.  Without  adequate  stem 
cells,  the  body  may  be  unable  to  manu- 
facture enough  disease-fighting  blood 
cells  to  ward  off  infection.  To  help  the 
body  restore  this  capacity,  doctors  can 
harvest  some  of  the  patient's  own 
healthy  stem  cells  and  freeze  them 
before  treatment  begins.  After  therapy  ends, 
the  cells  are  reinfused  into  the  patient. 

But  because  stem  cells  make  up  only  a 
tiny  fraction  of  human  blood  (fewer  than 
one  cell  per  10,000  cells  in  normal  blood) 
and  are  difficult  to  grow  outside  of  the  body, 
this  procedure  can  be  difficult  and  expen- 
sive. At  least  that  was  the  case  before  Kraus 
came  along.  As  part  of  his  studies,  he  invent- 
ed a  way  to  selectively  breed  tHSCs  quickly 
and  efficiently  in  the  laboratory  by  culturing 
them  in  a  bioreactor  he  designed. 

Kraus  came  to  WPI  in  1988  to  continue 
his  education  after  earning  an  undergradu- 
ate degree  in  philosophy  and  running  his 
own  construction  business  in  Pennsylvania. 
For  his  doctoral  qualifying  exam,  he  pro- 
posed a  reactor  that  would  mimic  how  stem 
cells  grow  in  bone  marrow.  "It  took  me 
about  six  months  and  a  couple  of  flashes  of 
light  to  come  up  with  the  concept,"  he  says. 

Kraus'  advisor,  Judith  Miller,  associate 
professor  of  biology  and  biotechnology, 


immediately  recognized  the  project's  poten- 
tial. "I  encouraged  Morey  to  put  his  ideas 
into  a  proposal,"  she  says.  "Doctoral  com- 
mittees review  a  lot  of  concepts  that  are 
interesting  in  theory.  Morey's  was  the  first 
in  a  long  time  that  seemed  to  have  recogniz- 
able commercial  potential  and  was  also  the 
first  qualifying  proposal  ever,  in  my  experi- 
ence, to  eclipse  the  originally  planned  doc- 
toral research." 


nil  vmwMHUN' 


Jill 


Friberg  and  Morey  Kraus  work  on  their  stem 
cell  breeder  at  the  offices  of  t. Breeders. 


Kraus  put  the  project  aside  for  a  semes- 
ter, then  presented  it  to  Mason  "Skip"  Irving 
III,  vice  president  of  commercial  develop- 
ment for  the  Massachusetts  Biotechnology 
Research  Institute.  MBRI,  an  independent, 
not-for-profit  organization,  and  its  affiliated 
venture  capital  firm,  Commonwealth  Bio- 
Ventures  Inc.,  have  provided  capital,  labora- 
tory space,  equipment,  supplies  and  manage- 
ment guidance  to  20  companies  since  the 
two  were  established  in  1984.  As  a  result  of 
Kraus'  proposal,  MBRI  funded  feasibility 
testing  of  the  bioreactor  and  supported  fur- 
ther research  on  Kraus'  idea. 

"We  were  impressed  not  only  with 
Morey's  invention,  which  we  believe  will 
have  a  great  deal  of  commercial  value,  but 
with  his  business  acuity  and  tenacity,"  says 
Irving. 

In  September  1994,  Kraus  opened  his 
own  business,  t. Breeders  Inc.,  in  a  large 
office  at  MBRI  headquarters  in  Worcester. 
He  serves  as  president  and  treasurer.  Jill  A. 


Friberg,  t. Breeders'  vice  president  of  opera- 
tions, is  also  completing  a  Ph.D.  at  WPI. 
Kraus  and  Friberg  have  applied  for  a 
patent  for  the  bioreactor,  which  can  grow  a 
variety  of  cell  types,  including  precursors  of 
T-cells  and  red  blood  cells.  Because  only  a 
small  sample  of  a  patient's  blood  is  needed 
to  breed  large  quantities  of  stem  cells  with 
the  reactor,  it  represents  a  significant  ad- 
vance over  the  traditional  method  of  collect- 
ing the  cells,  in  which  the  patient 
must  sit  for  prolonged  periods  while  a 
centrifuge-like  device  extracts  the  cells 
from  their  circulating  blood. 

t.Breeders'  product  "significantly 
reduces  patient  discomfort  and  de- 
creases the  risk  of  further  compromis- 
ing their  immune  defenses,  which  are 
at  risk  because  we've  removed  some  of 
their  stem  cells,"  Kraus  says.  The  sys- 
tem is  also  cost-effective.  "We  believe 
that  the  breeder  can  ultimately  be 
mass-produced  for  one-tenth  the  cost 
of  a  separator  system,"  he  adds. 

But  perhaps  the  most  important 
impact  of  the  new  procedure  will  be 
on  cancer  treatment  itself,  he  says. 
"Our  less  expensive,  more  reliable  and  safer 
source  of  cells  for  replacing  or  supplement- 
ing blood-forming  and  immune  system  cells 
will  significantly  increase  the  number  of 
patients  that  receive  cellular  therapy  and 
most  certainly  lead  to  more  aggressive  and 
effective  treatments  for  cancer." 

—BONNIE  GELBWASSER 
AND  RUTH  TRASK 

New  Forceps  Makes 
Suturing  Easier 

Wo  former  WPI  students,  a  University 
of  Massachusetts  Medical  Center 
physician  who  graduated  from  the 
Institute,  and  a  WPI  professor  recently 
patented  a  new  forceps  they  invented  to  make 
suturing  simpler  and  more  cost-effective. 

"Delicate  surgical  manipulation  requires 
stability — often  involving  the  use  of  two 
instruments,"  savs  Dr.  Raymond  M.  Dunn, 


T 


Sprinc;  19% 


associate  professor  of  plastic  surgery  at 
UMass,  who  designed  the  Tissue-Spreading 
Forceps  along  with  Marc  Gomes  Casseres 
'92,  Richard  Doppler  '92  and  mechanical 
engineering  Professor  Allen  1 1.  Hoffman. 
"By  allowing  the  surgeon  to  stahilize  the 
wound  with  the  forceps  with  one  hand  and 
suture  with  the  other,  the  forceps  make  pos- 
sible  more  precise  manipulation  of  tissue 
and  needle  placement." 

The  patented  forceps  (pictured  below) 
has  two  gripping  members  (which  resemble 
pairs  of  tweezers)  that  are  pivoted  at  the  end 
and  secured  to  each  other  by  a  spring. 
When  the  surgeon  applies  pressure  to  the 
spring,  it  causes  the  grippers  to  close  and 
hold  tissue  at  two  locations.  Additional 
pressure  makes  the  forceps  spread  apart  in 
relation  to  each  other,  thereby  spreading  the 
tissue.  "More  sophisticated  and  delicate  sur- 
gical procedures  are  routinely  being  devel- 
oped," says  Dunn.  "Many  of  these  require 
the  redesign  of  traditional  instrumentation 
and  the  development  of  new  ones." 

Dunn,  who  received  his  bachelor's 
degree  in  chemistry  from  WPI  in  1978  and 
now  directs  the  medical  center's  Plastic 
Surgery  Research  Laboratories,  saw  a  need 
for  an  improved  forceps  and  identified  pro- 
totypes that  could  be  used  to  make  those 
improvements.  Gomes  Casseres  and 


Doppler  were  WPI  seniors  in  1991  when 
they  began  working  with  Dunn  to  develop 
the  new  device  as  part  of  their  Major  Quali- 
fying Project.  Hoffman,  the  students'  advi- 
sor, helped  them  focus  on  their  task  and 
refine  the  product.  WPI  and  UMMC  fund- 
ed the  cost  of  securing  the  patent,  which  was 
assigned  to  both  institutions. 

"The  factors  that  were  considered  in  the 
design  of  the  forceps  were  ease  of  manipula- 
tion, complexity  of  the  closing  and  spread- 
ing mechanism,  and  cost  to  manufacture," 
says  Gomes  Casseres.  "The  Tissue-Spread- 
ing Forceps  will  enable  the  surgeon  to  con- 
centrate on  the  complicated  techniques 


involved  in  surgery,  rather  than  on  the 
mechanics  of  the  instrument." 

After  earning  their  bachelor's  degrees  in 
mechanical  engineering  with  biomedical 
interest,  Doppler  and  Gomes  Casseres  went 
on  to  earn  master's  degrees  in  mechanical 
engineering  at  WPI.  Doppler  is  now  vice 
president  of  operations  at  Reed  &  Prince 
Manufacturing  Corp.  in  Worcester.  Gomes 
( lasseres  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at  Lock- 
heed Sanders  Inc.  in  Nashua,  N.H. 

— BG 


Model  Predicts 
Boston  Marathon's 
Medical  Needs 

The  100th  running  of  the  Boston 
Marathon  on  April  15  was  an  exciting 
and  memorable  spectacle.  But  with 
nearly  40,000  runners  participating — four 
times  the  number  who  typically  compete 
and  the  largest  field  for  any  maradion  in  his- 
tory— the  race  represented  a  huge  challenge 
for  its  planners  and  organizers.  Thanks  to  a 
computer  simulation  developed  by  WPI 
juniors  Kevin  Ciszewski,  Timothy  Caldwell 
and  Joseph  Danubio,  those  harried  men  and 
women  were  able  to  confidently  plan  for  the 
medical  needs  of  the  runners. 

"The  students'  work  provided  the  cor- 
nerstone for  the  medical  care  plan  for  the 
100th  Boston  Marathon,"  says  Dr.  Marvin 
Adner,  medical  director  for  the  race.  Adner, 
chief  of  hematology  at  Metro  West  Medical 
Center  in  Framingham,  Mass.,  was  responsi- 
ble for  planning  all  of  the  medical  support 
for  the  race.  Last  spring,  he  approached 
WPI's  Management  Department  with  a 
request  for  a  computer  simulation  study  to 
help  prepare  for  the  centennial. 

"The  finish  line  for  the  marathon  is  like 
a  funnel  and  is  not  conducive  to  easy  dis- 
bursement of  the  finishers,"  says  Francis 
Noonan,  associate  professor  of  manage- 
ment, who  served  as  the  students'  faculty 
advisor.  "This  marathon  historically  incurs 
higher  casualty  rates  than  other  marathons — 
either  because  of  the  nature  of  the  course  or 
the  fact  that  many  runners  elevate  the  status 
of  Boston  to  a  higher  level  than  other  races 
and  are  thus  more  likely  to  push  themselves 
beyond  their  physical  capabilities." 

For  their  computer  model,  the  students 
input  data  based  on  assumptions  about  the 
total  number  of  runners  across  a  discrete 
range  of  finish  times;  staffing  levels  for  the 
various  categories  of  the  race  (including  the 
number  of  available  medical  support  person- 


Sylvia  Mehl  of  Minnesota,  one  of  the 
1,400  casualties  of  the  100th  running 
of  the  Boston  Marathon,  rests  in  a  med- 
ical tent  at  the  finish  line. 

nel);  weather  conditions;  and  casualty  rates 
for  each  type  of  injury. 

"The  resulting  model  predicted  that  up 
to  l  ,000  cots  had  to  be  available  in  the  three 
medical  tents  and  that  the  medical  team 
needed  to  stock  about  850  intravenous 
lines,"  says  Noonan.  "We  also  provided 
information  to  Dr.  Adner  on  the  number  of 
medical  support  volunteers  he  needed  to  call 
upon  to  assist  finishers  who  required  med- 
ical attention." 

Ciszewski  and  Caldwell,  chemical  engi- 
neering majors,  and  Danubio,  a  civil  engi- 
neering major,  were  present  on  race  day  to 
see  how  well  their  model  predicted  the  actu- 
al medical  needs.  They  found  that  some  of 
their  assumptions  were  a  bit  conservative; 
for  example,  only  2,000  "bandit"  runners 
(runners  not  officially  registered)  joined  the 
race  (they  had  predicted  5,000)  and  it  took 
28  minutes  for  all  the  runners  to  clear  the 
starting  line  (they'd  estimated  40  to  45).  In 
addition,  the  cool  weather  held  down  the 
number  of  heat-related  medical  problems. 
As  a  result,  there  were  1,400  casualties  at  the 
finish  line,  vs.  the  2,100  the  model  had  pre- 
dicted, and  the  population  in  the  medical 
tents  never  got  beyond  350,  while  the  model 
suggested  it  might  hit  500. 

"Being  overprepared  is  better  than  being 
underprepared,"  Noonan  says,  "and  the 
medical  staff  was  most  grateful  for  the  early 
planning  work  from  these  students." 

— BG 


^VPI  JOURNAL 


An  Electric 


More  than  100  years  ago,  a  young,  deteir?nined  professor  of 
physics  rose  to  do  battle  with  the  giants  of  mechanical  engineering 
at  WPI.  When  the  dust  settled,  a  new  department  was  born  and 
WPI  would  never  be  the  same  again.  Here  is  the  story  of  the 
binh  of  the  Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering  Department. 


By  William  R.  Grog  an  '46 


f  the  year  WPI  construct- 
iLJLtL    jL«OJ\j  (§    ed  its  electrical  engineer- 
ing building,  Harvard  historian  Henry  Adams  pub- 
lished his  autobiography.  Adams  was  interested  in 
everything.  He  loved  to  attend  the  major  interna- 
tional expositions  where  the  great  technical 
advances  of  the  day  were  displayed  to  an  awestruck 
public.  Of  all  the  wonders  he  saw  at  diese  dazzling 
showcases,  nothing  captured  his  imagination  like 
the  dynamo. 

In  The  Education  of  Henry  Adams,  he  wrote  of 
the  forces  that  drive  civilization.  Every  force  has 
its  symbol,  he  noted.  Just  as  the  force  that  drove 
the  age  of  the  great  European  cathedrals  was 
symbolized  by  the  cross,  the  symbol  of  the  more 
secular  20th  century  would  be  the  dynamo.  He 
saw  the  40-foot-tall  dynamos  at  the  great  Chicago 
Exposition  of  1893  as  a  moral  force  and  was  daz- 
zled by  the  sense  of  power  that  radiated  from 
these  scarcely  humming  wheels — wheels  that 
seemed  to  make  the  old-fashioned,  deliberate  rev- 
olutions of  the  Earth  itself  pale  in  comparison. 
This  silent,  infinite  force  would  transform  the 
world,  he  wrote.  How  right  he  was. 

As  Adams  wandered  among  those  dynamos  in 
Chicago,  the  Electric  Age  was  about  to  dawn  at 
WPI.  And  just  as  Adams  might  have  predicted, 
the  arrival  of  the  upstart  discipline  of  electrical 
engineering  would  shake  things  up  there,  as  it  did 
everywhere  else.  In  the  century  since,  WPI's 
Electrical  Engineering  Department  (today  the 
Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering  Depart- 
ment) has  participated  in  a  wild  torrent  of  discov- 
ery, development  and  application  that  has  steadily 
accelerated  in  its  rate  of  diversification  and  social 
impact.  Arid  through  it  all,  it  has  educated  gener- 
ations of  brilliant  young  men  and  women.  This  is 
the  story  of  how  it  all  began. 


Spring  1996 


entiiry 


As  early  as  1750,  Ben  Franklin,  having  sur- 
vived flying  kites  into  thunderstorms,  put 
his  empirical  understanding  of  electricity 
into  practice  hy  inventing  the  lightning  rod.  But 
nearly  a  century  would  pass  before  electrophysi- 
cists  appeared  on  the  scene  to  begin  to  establish  a 
scientific  basis  for  electrical  phenomena. 
They  were  rewarded  by  having  their 
names — 0ersted,  Ampere,  Faraday, 
Ohm,  Lagrange  and  Laplace — forever 
attached  to  the  units  of  measure  electrical 
engineers  know  so  well. 

Next  came  the  age  of  the  inventors,  men 
like  Carl  Friedrich  Gauss,  Ernst  Weber,  Samuel 
Morse,  Sir  Charles  Wheatstone,  E.W.  Siemens, 
.Alexander  Graham  Bell  and  Thomas  Edison.  A 
new  technological  explosion  was  about  to  occur,  an 
era  in  which  the  discoveries  of  the  electrophysicists 
and  the  industrial  needs  identified  by  the  inventors 
would  be  formally  linked  through  the  yet  undevel- 
oped discipline  of  electrical  engineering. 

Chartered  on  May  10,  1865,  the  Worcester 
County  Free  Institute  of  Industrial  Science 
opened  its  doors  on  Nov.  1 1,  1868,  to  32  stu- 
dents. While  programs  in  civil  engineering  and 
chemistry  were  offered,  the  Institute  was  essen- 
tially a  mechanical  engineering  school,  with  heavy 
emphasis  on  shop  work.  In  1871,  as  the  Institute 
graduated  its  first  class,  there  quietly  arrived  on 
campus  a  27-year-old  A.B.  graduate  of  Amherst 
College  who  was  to  create  WPI's  electrical  engi- 
neering program.  Alonzo  Smith  Kimball  always 
had  an  intense  interest  in  electrical  phenomena. 
As  a  physics  professor,  he  developed  laboratories 
and  courses  in  electricity- 
After  continuous  effort,  Professor  Kimball 
was  allowed  to  introduce  the  first  graduate  course 
in  electrical  engineering  at  WPI  in  1889.  His  next 
proposal,  to  offer  an  undergraduate  course,  was 
met  with  fierce  faculty  opposition.  The  oppo- 
nents were  led  by  mechanical  engineering  giants 
Professors  Milton  Higgins  and  George  I.  Alden. 
Higgins,  superintendent  of  the  Washburn  Shops, 
and  Alden,  first  head  of  the  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering Department,  were  ardent  supporters  of 
the  shop  model  of  engineering  education  that 
WTI  had  pioneered  and  both  had  national  repu- 
tations. Kimball  wididrew  his  proposal,  but  inter- 
est in  die  field  continued  to  grow.  The  force  that 
Henry  Adams  predicted  would  dominate  the 
coming  century  could  not  be  denied. 

(Continued  on  page  9) 

WPI  Journal 


Opposite,  Alonzo  Smith  Kimball,  founder  of 
the  electrical  engineering  program  at  WPI. 
Above,  experimental  work  in  high-voltage 
electrical  transmission  was  a  focus  of 
research  in  the  early  days  of  the  depart- 
ment. In  the  background,  the  campus  as  it 
looked  in  1896,  when  the  department  was 
established.  Boynton  Hall,  far  left,  and  Sal- 
isbury Laboratories,  far  right,  housed  the 
electrical  engineering  program  before  it 
gained  its  own  building  in  1907. 


COROLLARY 


The  Big  E 


By  1905,  just  a  decade  after  its  founding,  the 
Electrical  Engineering  Department  had 
become  a  victim  of  its  own  success.  Enroll- 
ment in  the  EE  program  had  grown  like  wildfire 
and  its  meager  facilities  in  Salisbury  Laboratories 
were  bursting  at  the  seams.  In  an  urgent  note  to 
President  Edmund  Engler,  Department  Head 
Harold  Smith  warned  that  the  department  was  in 
danger  of  "complete  strangulation." 

Not  long  after  that,  the  trustees  authorized  the 
expenditure  of  $200,000  for  the  Electrical  Engi- 
neering Building,  which  was  completed  in  1907, 
occupying  a  prominent  spot  at  the  corner  of  West 
and  Salisbury  streets  on  what  had  been  part  of  the 
Salisbury  family  farm.  Built  in  the  shape  of  an  E, 
the  new  structure  was  a  showcase  for  the  most 
advanced  electrical  technology.  There  were  dyna- 
mos and  motors  and  electrical  apparatus  of  all  sorts 
for  students  to  use,  all  controlled  from  a  40-foot- 
long,  7-foot-high  switch  panel. 

A  large  open  bay  served  as  a  general  purpose 
lab  and  contained  the  largest  pieces  of  equipment. 
A  10-ton  traveling  crane  moved  over  the  lab  on 
huge  I-beams  to  lift  the  huge  generators  and 
motors.  Two  wings  housed  offices,  classrooms,  a 
lecture  hall,  the  department  library,  and  a  large  lab 
for  high-voltage  work.  In  all,  the  building  enclosed 
900,000  cubic  feet. 


This  space  proved  adequate  for  the  depart- 
ment's needs  for  50  years,  though  the  changing 
nature  ot  electrical  engineering — including  the 
electronics  revolution  created  by  the  invention  of 
the  transistor — ultimately  led  to  a  decision  to  reno- 
vate the  building  in  1958.  About  7,000  square  feet 
of  new  space  was  created  by  flooring  over  the  large 
bay,  and  research  labs  were  established  for  growing 
fields  like  electronics,  computers,  microwaves  and 
high-frequency  circuits.  The  building  also  gained  a 
new  entrance  facing  the  campus. 

The  building  was  ready  for  its  next  expansion 
and  refurbishment  in  the  early  1980s.  An  8,000- 
square-foot  addition  was  built  with  a  modern  facade 
facing  Salisbury  Labs.  The  space  was  needed  not 
only  for  the  expanding  Electrical  Engineering 
Department,  but  for  a  relatively  new  neighbor,  the 
Computer  Science  Department,  which  shared  the 
building  until  it  gained  a  home  of  its  own  in  Fuller 
Laboratories  in  1990. 

For  its  first  42  years,  this  structure  was  known 
simply  as  the  Electrical  Engineering  Building.  In 
1949,  upon  the  death  of  Atwater  Kent  '00,  the 
Institute  decided  to  formally  name  it  for  the  radio 
pioneer.  As  part  ot  the  renovations  in  the  1980s,  the 
large  lecture  hall  was  named  for  longtime  faculty 
member  Hobart  Newell. 


Spring  1996 


An  Electric  Century 

(Continued  from  page  7) 

Meanwhile,  some  alumni  and  trustees  were 
becoming  concerned  that  the  Institute  was  requir- 
ing too  much  shop  work  and  for  too  long.  MIT 
(which  graduated  its  first  electrical  engineering 
major  in  1889)  and  Cornell  had  already  begun  to 
de-emphasize  shop  work  and  develop  the  scientific 
component  of  their  academic  programs.  They  had 
also  lengthened  their  three-and-a-half-year  pro- 
gram to  four  years.  Despite  a  show  of  force  from 
Alden  and  I  liggins,  the  WPI  trustees  voted  to 
extend  WPI's  program  to  four  years. 

Kimball  saw  his  chance.  He  devised  a  program 
that  came  to  be  known  as  the  "Kimball  Plan."  It 
consisted  of  two  and  a  half  years  of  mechanical 
engineering,  a  half  year  of  "breadth"  subjects,  and 
a  year  of  electrical  engineering.  Once  again, 
Alden's  protests  that  the  college  was  becoming 
"too  scientific"  were  overruled  by  the  trustees,  who 
quickly  approved  the  plan.  The  electrical  engineer- 
ing program  started  when  the  first  tour-year  term 
began  in  September  1893.  It  wras  directed  by  Kim- 
ball, who  by  then  was  head  of  the  Department  of 
Physics.  Meanwhile,  Kimball's  health,  never  very 
good,  was  getting  steadily  worse. 

A  corner  of  the  Boynton  Hall  basement 
became  WPI's  first  electrical  engineering  labora- 
tory. A  dynamo  was  set  up  there,  driven  by  shaft- 


ing that  passed  through  a  tunnel  from  the  Wash- 
burn Shops.  Stephen  Salisbury  II,  having  become 
fascinated  with  electricity,  was  a  strong  supporter 
of  the  program,  donating  dynamos,  motors  and 
all  sorts  of  measuring  equipment  to  the  college. 
He  was  also  instrumental  in  the  building  of  the 
magnetics  laboratory  (now  Skull  Tomb),  which 
contained  no  iron  in  its  construction.  Later  ren- 
dered useless  for  its  primary  purpose  by  the  vibra- 
tions from  the  Boynton  Street  trollev  line,  the 
tin\  building  became  an  electrical  engineering 
laboratory.  When  Salisbury  died  in  1884,  his  son, 

WPI  Journal 


Stephen  Salisbury  III,  honored  his  memory  with  a 
$100,000  gift,  which  the  Institute  used  to  con- 
struct Salisbury  Laboratories,  completed  in  1889. 
The  LE  Department  was  granted  limited  space  in 
the  new  building,  which  enabled  it  to  abandon 
the  Boynton  basement  room. 

The  program  in  electrical  engineering  proved 
extremely  popular  and  grew  rapidly.  Space 
became  a  critical  problem,  and  the  program  need- 
ed full-time  management.  In 
1896,  electrical  engineering 
was  established  as  a  full 
department;  I  larold  B. 
Smith,  a  human  dynamo 
then  just  27  years  old,  was 
named  its  head.  That  same 
year,  Professors  Higgins  and 
Alden  left  WPI  to  pursue 
their  immensely  profitable 
commercial  interests,  amass- 
ing fortunes  in  the  process. 
Alon/.o  Kimball,  possibly  one 
of  the  greatest  unsung  heroes 
of  WTI,  died  a  year  later,  at 
the  age  of  53. 

Harold  Smith  was 
dynamic  and  deter- 
mined. A  graduate 
of  Cornell  and  already  recog- 
nized for  his  brilliant  work  in 
the  field  of  transformers  and 
insulators,  he  served  as  director  of  the  new  school 
of  electrical  engineering  at  Purdue  for  two  years 
before  he  came  to  WPI.  Smith  seemed  to  be 
everywhere — teaching,  recruiting  students,  actively 
consulting  on  transformers  with  Westinghouse, 
and  diligently  courting  Edmund  Engler,  WTI's 
fourth  president,  and  the  Board  of  Trustees, 
impressing  on  them  the  fact  that  his  visionary 
plans  were  limited  by  a  terrible  lack  of  space. 
Thus,  when  Stephen  Salisbury  Ill's  legacy  arrived 
in  1905,  the  trustees  had  no  problem  deciding 
what  to  do  with  it.  Smith  wanted  the  new  electrical 
building  to  be  the  largest  and  finest  in  America— 
and  it  was  (see  story,  opposite  page).  Larger  than 
any  college  engineering  building  ever  built,  it  was 
big  enough  to  accommodate  WTI's  1907  Com- 
mencement. The  building's  equipment  included 
the  renowned  WPI  Electric  Test  Car,  the  Insti- 
tute's regional  trademark  for  20  years  (see  story, 
next  page). 

In  1910,  Smith's  wife  drowned  in  a  swimming 
accident.  He  remarried  the  following  year,  took  a 
two-year  leave  of  absence,  and  embarked  on  a 
cruise  around  the  world.  Upon  his  return,  he  pur- 
sued the  development  of  the  department  with 
even  more  energy,  and  his  reputation  (and  that  of 
WPI)  in  high-voltage  power  transmission  soared. 
A  100-kV  line  was  constructed  along  Boynton 
Street.  This  was  later  replaced  by  a  500-kV  line 

(Continued  on  page  1 1) 


Harold  Smith,  above, 
was  named  head  of  the 
Electrical  Engineering 
Department  upon  its 
founding  in  1896.  The 
department's  original 
faculty  also  included 
Joseph  Phelon,  in  apron 
at  left,  who  began  his 
WPI  career  in  1887  as  a 
professor  of  physics. 


COROLLARY 


Testing  the  Rails 


In  1905  the  Electrical  Engineering  Department 
hired  a  young  assistant  professor  named  Alhert 
Richey.  His  specialty  was  electric  railway  engi- 
neering, and  he  came  to  the  Institute  fresh  from  a 
post  as  chief  engineer  of  a  traction  railway  company 
in  Indiana.  Electrically  powered  trains  were  one  of 
the  most  exciting  and  fastest  growing  applications 
of  the  still  young  field  of  power  engineering.  In  the 
decades  ahead,  inner-  and  intercity  rail  lines  would 
crisscross  die  landscape  like  a  steel  spider's  web. 

Richey  brought  this  emerging  field  to  WPI  by 
establishing  a  program  in  electric  railway  engi- 
neering. Two  years  later,  generous  space  was  pro- 
vided in  the  west  end  of  the  new  Electrical  Engi- 
neering Building  for  an  electric  car  testing  plant. 
The  plant  included  a  56-foot-long  pit  with  a  set  of 
rails  mounted  on  tall  I-beams  for  inspecting  rail- 
way cars.  Alongside  the  inspection  track  were  four 
pairs  of  wheels  mounted  on  adjustable  pedestals. 
The  wheels  were  attached  to  flywheels,  which  sim- 
ulated the  starting  inertia,  and  electric  generators, 
used  to  place  variable  loads  on  the 
wheels  of  a  car  to  simulate 
various  track  condi- 
tions. 


One  car  that  made  frequent  appearances  on  the 
test  stand  was  No.  1907,  the  Institute's  own  electric 
test  car.  Its  exterior  was  painted  green  and  adorned 
with  a  WPI  seal  and  the  name  of  the  Institute  in 
gold  leaf.  The  inside  was  finished  in  oak  and  packed 
with  instruments  made  by  WPI  students,  as  well  as 
electric  fans,  ice  coolers,  lamps,  desks,  easy  chairs 
and  other  amenities  needed  on  long  trips. 

On  those  frequent  sojurns,  the  car,  one  of  only 
a  few  like  it  in  the  country,  tested  the  continuity  of 
the  tracks  used  by  the  many  electric  street  rail  com- 
panies in  New  England.  The  companies  paid  for 
this  service,  which  was  typically  performed  during 
the  summer  months.  The  test  crew  usually  consist- 
ed of  a  faculty  member  and  two  or  three  student 
assistants.  Electrical  engineering  majors  could 
choose  this  work  as  an  option  during  the  senior 
year,  and  many  did. 

The  rise  of  the  automobile  and  "autobus" 
brought  about  the  gradual  demise  of  electric  street 
railways.  The  test  car,  no  longer  in  demand  and 
having  been  damaged  by  fire,  was  dismantled  and 
sold  in  1927.  The  tracks  leading  into  the  building 
were  torn  up.  Today,  the  only  reminder  of  this  great 
era  in  the  history  of  the  Electrical  Engineering 
Department  are  the  large  arched  windows  on 
the  west  side  of  Atwater  Kent  Labs  that 
occupy  the  space  where  big  double 
doors  once  opened  to  receive 
■k,.  oP  No.  1907. 


10 


Spring  1996 


4id  J*<i*  JiJh  h 


An  Electric  Century 

(Continued  from  page  9) 

supplied  by  a  transformer  designed  and  built  at 
WTI.  The  work  involved  cutting-edge  research 
on  insulators  and  transformer  insulating  oils.  The 
citizens  of  Worcester  came  to  Boynton  Street  at 
night  to  gasp  in  wonder  at  the  sparks  and  corona 
the  line  produced. 

Smith  insisted,  based  upon  his  industrial 
experience,  that  every  EE  major  devote  half  of  his 
senior  year  to  the  study  of  business  methods,  and 
he  required  a  course  in  engi- 
neering economy  (the  course 
would  continue  to  be  offered 
in  the  department  until  the 
1960s).  During  World  War  I 
he  worked  on  submarine 
development  in  New  London, 
Conn.  Meanwhile,  WTI's  EE 
graduates  were  populating 
every  corner  of  electrical 
engineering,  and  the  EE 
industry  responded.  Westing- 
house  donated  an  elaborate 

high-voltage  lab  to  WPI  and  paid  for  its  complete 
installation,  while  General  Electric  donated  an 
array  of  rotating  machines. 

At  least  half  of  the  EE  program  remained  in 
mechanical  engineering,  since  it  was  generally 
thought  at  the  time  (by  Smith  and  by  leaders  at 
most  engineering  colleges)  that  one  could  not  mas- 
ter the  concepts  of  electrical  design  until  one  had 
become  quite  familiar  with  the  principles  of  the 
established  mechanical  design  process.  That 
assumption  would  not  change  until  World  War  II. 

In  1927,  EE  Professor  Clarence  Pierce 
became  the  first  faculty  member  at  WPI  to  be 
granted  a  one-year  sabbatical  leave;  he  received  a 
stipend  of  $1,000.  The  WPI  test  car  was  sold  that 
year,  victim  of  the  decline  of  the  electric  trollev 
lines.  As  a  sign  of  the  changing  times,  a  commu- 
nications lab,  with  Professor  Hobart  Newell  (who 
brought  WPI  into  the  age  of  electronics)  in 
charge,  was  established  through  a  grant  from 
AT&T,  and  the  Radio  Corporation  of  America 
gave  the  department  a  complete  radio  station. 

Newell  was  a  radio  pioneer  who  helped  devel- 
op the  nation's  first  commercial  radio  station  and 
the  first  FM  transmitter.  Two  WPI  alumni  would 
make  major  contributions  to  the  emerging  radio 
industry:  Atwater  Kent  '00,  who  designed  and 
manufactured  a  popular  line  of  radio  receivers 
(and  who  gave  his  name  to  WPI's  EE  building), 
and  Harold  Davis  '18,  who  was  the  first  board 
chairman  of  NBC. 

The  department  was  at  a  zenith  of  education- 
al achievement  and  was  nationally  recognized  for 
its  excellence.  Smith  was  elected  president  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Electrical  Engineers  (fore- 
runner of  IEEE,  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and 
Electronics  Engineers),  and  for  two  years  he  trav- 


eled the  country  extensively, 
speaking  to  a  wide  variety  of 
engineering  and  business 
groups.  Growing  weary,  he 
retired  on  July  1,  1931,  after 
serving  as  department  head 
for  35  years.  Theodore  H. 
Morgan  from  Stanford  Uni- 
versity took  over.  Smith  died 
on  Feb.  9,  1932,  marking 
the  end  of  a  golden  age  for 
the  Institute. 


r 


The  era  of  electronics  slowly  (perhaps  too 
slowly)  supplanted  the  era  of  the  dynamo.  In  turn, 
it  was  supplanted  by  the  era  of  computers  and 
computer  communications.  Today,  in  fact,  the 
symbol  that  best  defines  the  state  of  electrical 
engineering  is  the  computer  screen.  One  might 
ask  what  awesome  new  force  will  appear  in  the 
21st  century  to  take  the  place  of  this  ubiquitous 
flickering  presence.  Wdl  it  lift  humanity  to  greater 
heights  of  grace  and  understanding,  or  will  it  drive 
us  all  to  the  wall  of  frustration  and  isolation?  The 
only  certainty  is  that  it  will  not  take  another  100 
years  before  we  discover  the  answer. 

Grogan  is  professor  ewer  it  us  of  electrical  engineering 
and  dean  of  undergraduate  studies  emeritus  at  WPI. 


Clockwise  from  top  left, 
the  "electricals"  pose 
before  one  of  the  large 
electrical  control  pan- 
els in  the  EE  Building; 
Hobart  Newell  '18, 
standing,  a  pioneer  in 
radio  who  would  go  on 
to  create  WPI's  educa- 
tional and  research  pro- 
gram in  electronics; 
Harold  Smith  at  the 
podium  in  the  lecture 
hall  that  would  later  be 
named  for  Newell. 


WPI  Journal 


COROLLARY 


The 

Father  of 
Negative 
Feedback 


THE    NEW    YORK    TIME.  VTURDAY,    AUGUST    6,    1927 


c 


jr 


In  its  first  100  years,  WPIs  Electrical  and 
Computer  Engineering  Department  has  pro- 
duced thousands  of  graduates,  many  of  whom 
have  gone  on  to  do  extraordinary  things.  There 
was  Atwater  Kent  '00,  who  made  one  of  the  most 
popular  receivers  in  the  early  days  of  radio;  Yi  Chi 
Mei  '14,  who  became  president  of  one  of  China's 
best  known  and  most  distinguished  universities; 
Hobart  Newell  '18,  a  pioneer  in  radio  who  became 
a  legendary  professor  of  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI;  John  Lott  Brown  '46,  who  made  a  name  for 
himself  as  a  researcher  in  psychology  and  a  univer- 
sity president;  William  Grogan  '46,  also  a  distin- 
guished professor  at  WPI  and  one  of  the  founders 
of  the  WPI  Plan;  Paul  Allaire  '60,  who  is  chairman 
and  CEO  of  Xerox  Corp.;  Robert  Mcintosh  '62, 
a  pioneer  in  microwave  remote  sensing;  Donald 
Foley  '66,  an  entrepreneur  and  business  leader 
who  was  once  deputy  director  of  the  Defense 
Advanced  Research  Projects  Agency;  and  Ronald 
Zarrella  '71,  who  went  from  the  presidency  of 
Bausch  and  Lomb  to  a  vice  presidency  at  General 
Motors  (where  he  is  in  charge  of  the  corporation's 
North  American  Sales,  Service  and  Marketing 
Group). 

But  perhaps  the  department's  most  stellar 
graduate  was  Harold  S.  Black  '21,  whose  negative 
feedback  theory  is  widely  recognized  as  one  of  the 
most  important  and  fundamental  concepts  in  elec- 
trical engineering.  The  theory  enables  distortion  in 
a  communication  signal  to  be  corrected  by  feeding 
part  of  the  signal  back  to  the  amplifier  and  com- 
paring it  to  the  original  signal.  The  theory  was  first 
applied  to  long-distance  telephone  service,  but  has 
since  found  applications  in  fields  as  diverse  as  con- 
trol engineering  and  psychology.  Indeed,  the  term 
"feedback"  has  become  entrenched  in  the  popular 
lexicon. 

The  story  of  how  Harold  Black  discovered 
negative  feedback  theory  is  legendary.  In  1927  he 
was  taking  the  Hudson  River  Ferry  to  his  office  at 
Bell  Laboratories  in  New  York  City  when  he  sud- 
denly thought  of  a  solution  to  the  problem  of  dis- 
tortion in  amplified  signals  (a  fundamental  obstacle 
to  economical  long-distance  telephone  service). 
Having  nothing  else  to  write  on,  he  sketched  his 
idea  on  a  copy  of  The  New  York  Times  and  then 
signed  and  dated  it.  The  patent  he  won  for  the 
negative  feedback  amplifier  was  one  of  63  U.S.  and 
278  foreign  patents  he  earned  in  a  long  and  distin- 
guished career  at  Bell  Labs. 

For  his  contributions  to  electronics  and  com- 
munications, Black  earned  numerous  awards  and 
honors.  They  included  the  IEEE's  Lamme  Medal, 
WPI's  Robert  H.  Goddard  Alumni  Award  for  Out- 
standing Professional  Achievement,  and  induction 
into  the  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame. 


12 


Spring  1996 


Alumni  Speak  Out 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsi  y 

Each  spring,  the  WPI  community  gathers 
for  a  ritual  filled  with  tradition  and 
marked  by  dignity  and  emotion.  In  a  cer- 
emony that  has  transpired  128  times  since 
WPI  opened  its  doors,  the  members  of 
the  graduating  class,  adorned  in  black  robes  and 
mortarboard  caps,  stride  one  by  one  across  a  gaily 
decorated  stage  to  receive  their  diplomas  and 
march  off  into  the  ranks  of  alumni. 

Commencement  is  both  an  end  and  a  begin- 
ning. Just  as  it  brings  down  the  curtain  on  a  stu- 
dent's campus  days,  distilling  into  memories  the 
many  hours  spent  studying,  learning  and  building 
friendships  with  classmates,  it  opens  the  door  on 
a  new  type  of  relationship  with  the  Institute.  For 

some,  it  is  an 
active  affiliation, 
fdled  with  home- 
coming week- 
ends, class 
reunions  and 
annual  sup- 
port of  the 
WTI  Alumni 
Fund.  For 
others,  the 
connection  is 
more  passive, 
sustained  largely  by  the  continual  stream  of  news 
about  WPI  and  fellow  graduates  delivered  by  the 
Institutes  publications. 

But  whether  graduates  stay  in  touch  with  their 
alma  mater  or  keep  their  distance,  they  represent 
the  Institute's  single  most  important  constituency. 
Alumni  provide  WPI  with  about  85  percent  of  all 
the  dollars  it  raises  from  individuals.  Graduates 
play  an  important  role  in  recruiting  new  students, 
either  actively  as  Alumni  Admissions  volunteers  or 
indirectly  as  ambassadors  for  WPI  in  their  com- 
munities. Alumni  help  students  launch  their 
careers  by  providing  opportunities  for  internships 
and  co-op  experiences,  by  participating  in  career 
fairs  and  job  shadowing  programs,  and  by  hiring 
fellow  graduates.  More  and  more,  alumni  are  mak- 
ing a  difference  in  WPI's  educational  efforts  by 
advising  or  sponsoring  student  projects  and  help- 
ing out  with  the  creation  and  management  of  over- 
sees project  centers.  Many  alumni  volunteer  time 
to  the  Institute  as  trustees  or  members  of  many 
Alumni  Association  and  campus  committees.  And 
all  graduates,  by  talking  about  the  university  to 
friends,  fellow  employees  and  young  people,  help 
build  and  expand  WPI's  reputation. 

( riven  the  many  ways  alumni  contribute  to 
the  Institute's  success,  one  might  guess  that  WPI 

WPI  Journal 


would  know  a  great  deal  about  what  this  impor- 
tant group  thinks  about  a  wide  range  of  issues.  In 
reality,  of  course,  tapping  into  the  thoughts  and 
opinions  of  more  than  22,000  men  and  women 
who  live  and  work  all  around  the  world  is  no  easy 
task.  Last  summer,  for  the  first  time  ever,  the 
WPI  Alumni  Association  decided  to  do  just  that. 
To  take  the  pulse  of  this  widespread  group,  the 
association,  in  concert  with  the  University  Rela- 
tions Office  and  the  Provost's  Office,  contracted 
with  the  Gallup  Organization  to  conduct  a  com- 
prehensive survey  of  the  alumni  body. 

"There  have  been  a  few  surveys — both  formal 
and  informal — over  the  years  that  have  questioned 
different  groups  of  alumni  about  specific  topics," 
notes  Sharon  Davis,  director  of  alumni  affairs. 
"But  until  now,  there  has  never  been  a  comprehen- 
sive study  of  our  entire  alumni  body  that  asked  not 
only  what  they  think  about  their  relationship  with 
the  Alumni  Association,  but  how  they  view  their 
WPI  educations  and  the  management  and  future 
directions  of  the  Institute.  This  survey  really  broke 
new  ground  and  provided  some  quite  interesting 
and  useful  results." 

The  survey  was  overseen  by  a  subcommittee 
of  the  Alumni  Association  Executive  Committee. 
Chaired  by  Patricia  G.  Flaherty  '75,  the  subcom- 
mittee also  included  Joel  P.  Greene  '69,  Joseph  J. 
Maggi  '67,  Robert  E.  Maynard  '63,  Samuel  Men- 
cow  '38,  Patrick  T  Moran  '65  and  Katherine  M. 
Vignaly  '84.  The  questionnaire  was  designed  by 
Gallup  with  considerable  input  from  the  commit- 
tee and  from  WPI's  Alumni,  Provost's,  Student 
Life  and  University  Relations  offices. 

In  August  1995,  Gallup's  trained  telephone 
interviewers  began  calling  a  random  sample  of 
841  WPI  graduates,  who  were  divided  nearl\ 
equally  into  four  groups  according  to  their 
undergraduate  class  year:  1985  to  the 
present;  1975  to  1984;  1965  to  1974; 
and  1964  and  earlier.  The  inter- 
views, designed  to  last  about  18 
minutes,  covered  a  broad  range 
of  topics,  ranging  from  grad 
uates'  perceptions  of 
WPI's  quality  to  their 
memories  of  their 
educational  and  social 
experience  at  WPI  to  their  opinions 
about  WPI's  fundraising  strategies  to  their 
satisfaction  with  the  Journal  and  the  WPI 
Wire,  the  Institute's  primary  communica- 
tions links  with  its  graduates. 

In  the  pages  that  follow,  we  present  a 
summary  of  some  of  the  major  findings. 


What's  on  the  minds  of  WPI's 
22,000  graduates?  What  do 
they  think  about  the  education 
they  received,  the  state  of 
affairs  at  their  alma  mater 
today,  the  programs  and 
services  of  their  Alumni 
Association,  and  the 
Institute's  fund-raising 
practices?  To  find  out,  WPI 
conducted  a  major  survey  of 
alumni  last  summer.  Here  are 
the  results. 


ij 


V 


13 


Rate  these  schools  in 
terms  of  overall  quality. 


23 


66 


MIT 


15 


12 


2ft 


43 


CalTech 


23 


43 


27 


WPI 


11 


24 


42 


20 


Cornell 


24 


24 


34 


16 


Carnegie  Mellon 


34 


44 


13 


Rensselaer 


23 


44 


25 


Georgia  Tech 


43 


43 


Clarkson 


12 


17 


66 


UMass- Amherst 


How  WPI  Ranks 

Recognizing  that  WPI  graduates  represent  an 
important  adjunct  to  the  Institute's  efforts  to 
expand  and  enhance  its  reputation  and  name 
recognition,  the  survey  sought  to  find  out  how 
alumni  rate  their  alma  mater  and  how  they  think 
the  public  at  large  perceives  of  the  university. 
Overall,  respondents  compared  their  alma  mater 
quite  favorably  to  some  of  the  top  universities  in 
the  nation,  and  said  they  believe  that  the  public  at 

large  holds  a  positive 
opinion  of  WPI,  as  well 
(those  who  have  heard 
of  the  Institute,  that  is). 

Respondents  were 
asked  to  rate  WPI  and 
eight  other  universities 
(including  some  of  the 
Institute's  most  impor- 
tant competitors  for  stu- 
dents) on  a  five-point 
scale.  The  results  are 
presented  in  Table  1; 
they  show  that  alumni 
placed  WPI  ahead  of 
some  of  the  nation's  top 
technological  universi- 
ties. In  fact,  only  MIT 
and  California  Institute  of  Technology  earned 
higher  mean  ratings  than  WPI.  By  very  slight 
margins,  alumni  who  graduated  in  1965  or  earlier 
rated  WPI  higher  than  more  recent  grads,  and 
male  graduates,  overall,  ranked  WPI  slightly 
higher  than  female  graduates.  Regular  donors  to 
WPI  (those  who  have  given  within  the  last  five 
years)  assigned  the  Institute  higher  marks  than 
those  who  have  not  supported  WPI  regularly. 

Alumni  were  also  asked  which  university  they 
believe  to  be  WPI's  closest  competitor.  Overall, 
84  percent  named  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute or  MIT,  with  Rensselaer  accounting  for 
about  two  thirds  of  the  replies.  Cal  Tech  and 
Carnegie  Mellon  were  each  mentioned  by  about 
2  percent  of  respondents.  According  to  the  WPI 
Admissions  Office,  Rensselaer  is,  indeed,  WPI's 
most  important  competitor.  About  33  percent  of 
students  who  apply  to  WPI  also  apply  to  Rensse- 
laer. Other  major  competitors  are,  in  descending 
order,  Boston  University,  Northeastern  Universi- 
ty, Tufts  University  and  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts. Carnegie  Mellon,  Cornell  and  MIT  all 
rank  just  below  these  schools. 

Asked  to  place  themselves  in  the  shoes  of  the 
general  public,  62  percent  of  respondents  said 
they  think  the  average  person  has  a  favorable 
impression  of  WPI;  14  percent  said  they  believe 
the  Institute  is  viewed  extremely  favorably,  while 
16  percent  said  WPI  is  "OK"  in  the  public  eye. 
Some  6  percent  of  respondents  said  they  believe 
the  public,  as  a  whole,  does  not  know  WPI  at  all. 
Two  questions  asked  graduates  to  name  what 
they  consider  to  be  WPI's  strongest  and  weakest 


programs.  Confusion  over  the  meaning  of  the 
word  "program"  in  the  question  may  have  con- 
tributed to  the  wide  range  of  responses  received, 
though  the  answers  do  provide  a  clue  as  to  what 
alumni  tend  to  think  of  first  when 
they  ponder  acad- 
emics at  WPI. 

For  example, 
while  the  Insti- 
tute has  made  the 
WPI  Plan,  its 
innovative,  pro- 
ject-based under- 
graduate program, 
the  focus  of  much 
of  its  marketing 
efforts — particu- 
larly in  its  com- 
munications to 


lake/i 


Alumni  place  WPI 
ahead  of  some  of  the 
nation's  top  technological  universities. 
62  percent  of  respondents  said  the 
public  has  a  good  impression  of  WPI. 
#4  percent  of  alumni  said  R.PI  and  MIT 
are  WPI's  closest  competitors. 
More  than  a  third  of  grads  could  not 
name  WPI's  weakest  program. 


prospective  stu- 
dents— only  9  per- 
cent of  respondents  said  the  Plan  is  WPI's 
strongest  program.  However,  1 5  percent  placed 
projects — the  centerpiece  of  the  Plan — at  the  top 
of  the  list.  When  combined,  these  two  responses 
were  mentioned  by  24  percent  of  respondents, 
placing  the  Plan  No.  2  on  the  list.  (When  the  3 
percent  of  alumni  who  named  the  undergraduate 
program  are  added  in,  the  Plan  rises  to  the  top.) 

Of  the  top  six  programs  mentioned,  five  are 
academic  disciplines.  They  are  electrical  engi- 
neering (26  percent),  mechanical  engineering  (23 
percent),  computer  science  (12  percent),  engi- 
neering in  general  (1 1  percent),  and  chemical 
engineering  (9  percent).  Biology  and  Biotechnol- 
ogy was  mentioned  by  6  percent  of  respondents, 
environmental  engineering  by  4  percent,  and  fire 
protection  engineering  by  2  percent. 

More  than  a  third  of  respondents  said  they 
could  not  name  WPI's  weakest  program;  another 
8  percent  said  WPI  has  no  weak  programs.  The 
percentage  of  alumni  who  did  not  name  a  specific 
program  increased  steadily  with  the  length  of 
time  since  graduation.  Where  17  percent  of 
alums  in  the  classes  of  1985  to  the  present 
answered  "don't  know,"  29  percent  of  members  of 
the  classes  of  1975  to  1984,  39  percent  of  those  in 
the  classes  of  1965  to  1974,  and  52  percent  of 
grads  in  the  Class  of  1964  and  earlier  gave  that 
answer.  The  only  program  cited  as  weak  by  a  sub- 
stantial number  of  alumni  was  the  humanities  (26 
percent,  overall),  with  37  percent  of  recent  gradu- 
ates singling  out  this  discipline. 

Experiences,  Positive  and 
Negative 

Another  set  of  questions  asked  participants  to 
reflect,  in  general  terms,  on  the  experience  they  had 
as  students  at  WPI.  Table  2  lists  the  answers  given 
most  frequendy  to  the  question,  "What  was  the  best 
single  experience  you  had  at  WPI?"  The  answer 


14 


Spring  1996 


Quick 
Take/i 


given  more  often  than  any  other  \\  as 
"graduating."  For  alumni  who  graduated 
since  die  start  of  the  WPI  Plan,  project 
work  was  die  top  choice,  given  hy  20  per 
cent  of  alumni  in  the  classes  of  1975  to  1984 
and  a  third  of  those  who  graduated  more 
recendy.  Earlier  Plan  graduates  gave  equal 
weight  to  graduating  and  to  passing  the 
Competency  Exam,  the  do-or-die  gradua- 
tion requirement  diat  was  phased  out 
about  a  decade  ago  in  favor  of  departmen- 
tal distribution  requirements.  Interestingly, 
the  social  side  of  campus  life — friendships 
with  classmates  and  faculty  members, 
meeting  one's  future  spouse,  extracurricu- 
lar activities,  and  sports — was  mentioned 
by  few  alumni. 

In  fact,  asked  to  list  two  positive  experiences 
they  remember  from  their  student  days,  alumni, 
by  a  wide  margin,  pointed  to  academic  experi- 
ences (project  work,  academic  excellence,  helpful 
professors,  academic  environment,  and  hard  work 
and  discipline)  more  often  than  social  experiences 
(fraternity  and  sorority  life,  social  events,  friend- 
ships, and  extracurricular  activities),  as  Table  2 
shows.  Overall,  fewer  than  half  of  respondents 
recall  negative  experiences  related  to  WPI  (this 
percentage  dropped  dramatically  with  time  since 
graduation,  ranging  from  52  percent  for  the  most 
recent  graduates  to  29  percent  for  those  who 
graduated  in  1964  or  earlier). 

Of  the  alumni  who  had  a  negative  memory, 
most  attributed  it  to  an  individual  professor.  "Bad 
social  scene"  was  the  top  answer  for  graduates 
from  the  classes  of  1975  to  1984,  and  "hard 
work/high  pressure"  was  mentioned  by  13  per- 
cent of  graduates  from  the  classes  of  1965  to 
1974.  Other  factors  listed  by  more  than  5  percent 
of  respondents  were  financial  problems  (men- 
tioned more  frequently  by  recent  grads),  "frater- 
nity/sorority" and  poor  grades.  Prejudice  was 
cited  by  12  percent  of  women  who  reported  nega- 
tive memories,  but  only  2  percent  of  men.  Men 
"were  more  likely  than  women  to 
cite  a  bad  social  scene,  while        .        * 
women  were  far  more  like-  \     r 

ly  than  men  to  point  to  v  -* 

the  lopsided  ratio  of  • 

male  to  female  students. 


The  Alumni 
Experience 

One  of  the  most  important  roles 
of  the  Alumni  Association  is  to 
keep  graduates  engaged  with  dieir 
alma  mater  by  offering  a  range  of 
programs  and  services  tuned  to 
graduates'  interests,  needs  and 
schedules.  Informal  feedback 
from  alumni  who  partake  of  those 


Asked  to  name 

their  most  positive  experience 

at  WPI,  most  said  "graduating." 

Younger  alumni  cited  project  work  as 

their  most  positive  experience. 

Alumni  rated  their  academic 

experience  higher  than  their  social 

experience. 

Fewer  than  half  of  respondents  had 

negative  associations  with  WPI. 


What  was  the  best  single 
experience  you  had  at  WPI? 


graduating 


project  work 


fraternity /sorority 


passing  competency  exam 


academic  class 


friends  made 


friendship  with  faculty  member 


other 


don't  know 


Categories  of  experiences 
that  hold  the  most  positive 
memories  of  WPI 


Academic 


Social  /  recreational 


•  Fewer  than  half  of 
alumni  have  used  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation programs  and  services. 
Of  those  who  have,  about  a  third  have 
been  to  Reunion  or  Homecoming. 
More  than  three-quarters  said 
alumni  programs  are  effective. 
Those  who  don't  partake  cite  dis- 
tance from  WPI  and  busy  lives  as 
reasons. 


WPI  Journal 


services  and  programs, 
and  the  raw  numbers — 
how  many  people  partici- 
pate and  how  many 
don't — offer  some  guid- 
ance to  the  alumni  staff 
about  which  programs  are 
useful  and  enjoyable. 
Through  die  survey,  the 
association  sought  to 
probe  deeper. 

The  survey  revealed 
that  fewer  than  half  of  graduates  have  ever  used 
an  alumni  association  program  or  service.  Not 
surprisingly,  graduates  who  live  in  the  Northeast 
were  the  most  likely  to  have  taken  advantage  of 
what  the  association  offers,  while  grads  in  the 
western  and  south  central  U.S.  were  the  least 
likely  (international  alumni  were  not  polled).  The 
participation  level  increased  somewhat  with  time 
since  graduation,  and  active  donors  and  graduates 
who  received  both  their  bachelor's  and  advanced 
degrees  from  WPI  were  much  more  likely  to  have 
used  the  association's  services  than  nondonors  and 
those  who  earned  advanced  degrees  elsewhere. 

Of  those  who  said  they  had  joined  in  associa- 
tion activities,  about  a  third  said  they'd  attended 
either  Reunion  or  Homecoming.  Homecoming 
was  most  popular  with  younger 
alumni  (more  than  half  of  gradu- 
ates of  1985  to  the  present  have 
attended  this  event;  only  16 
percent  of  those  in  the  classes  of 

1964  and  earlier  have),  while  the 
popularity  of  Reunion  (an  event 
for  classes  celebrating  major 
reunions,  beginning  with  the 
10th)  appears  to  grow  with  the 
passage  of  the  years  (about  40  per- 
cent of  grads  from  the  classes  of 

1965  to  1984  have  attended  a 
reunion;  54  percent  of  members 
of  the  classes  of  1964  and  earlier 
have  come  back  to  campus  for  this 
spring  event). 


15 


17 


33 


22 


b 


54 


37 


\b 


10 


10 


17 


b 


61 


30 


17 


b 


0 


5 


24 


22 


49 


34 


26 


<1 


29 


16 


49 


31 


96 


90 


94 


91 


bl 


bb 


be 


bb 


76 


74 


69 


96 


be 


91 


53 


bO 


71 


60 


60 


54 


4.5 


4.4 


4.3 


4.2 


4.2 


4.1 


4.0 


4.0 


3.3 


3.0 


3.8 


4.3 


4.2 


4.2 


4.0 


3.8 


3.8 


3.7 


3.3 


3.2 


Of  those  who  had  attended  Alumni  Associa- 
tion events,  more  than  three  quarters  found  them 
to  be  at  least  somewhat  effective  (somewhat  effec- 
tive, 49  percent;  very  effective,  21  percent). 
Those  who  did  not  rate  the  programs  "very  effec- 
tive" were  asked  why  they  weren't  more  effective, 
and  all  respondents  were  asked  how  alumni 
events  could  be  improved.  The  most  prevalent 
answers  centered  on  low  attendance  at  the  events, 
inadequate  advertising  or  advance  notice  for 
events,  and  a  need  for  better  content  or  content 
more  in  tune  with  the  interest  of  alumni. 

To  get  a  better  feel  for  why  alumni  do  _ 

not  attend  events,  or  attend  more  often,  the 
survey  asked  participants  who  had  not  been      * 
to  an  event  for  at  least  five  years  (or  who  could 

Agreement  with  statements 
about  WPI  in  general 


1  would  recommend  WPI  to  prospective  students. 


WPI's  current  emphasis  on  project-based  education 
is  the  right  approach  for  success  in  today's  world. 


WPI  provides  a  positive  community  in  which  to  learn. 


The  faculty  provides  a  postive  learning  environment 
for  the  students. 


The  faculty  really  cares  about  the  students. 


The  WPI  faculty  is  the  highest  quality. 


If  I  were  to  give  money  to  WPI,  I  have  confidence 
that  the  money  would  be  used  wisely. 


WPI  is  well-managed,  with  a  clear  set  of  goals. 


WPI  provides  a  positive  social  community  in  which  to  live. 


WPI  should  provide  merit-based  scholarship  aid  to 
outstanding  students  regardless  of  financial  need. 


WPI's  focus  on  international  and  global  issues  is  the 
best  approach  for  success  in  today's  world. 


Agreement  with  statements 

about  WPI  when  alumni  were  students 


The  faculty  at  WPI  taught  me  well. 


My  WPI  education  prepared  me  well  to  contribute 
quickly  to  projects  and  problem-solving  tasks  at  work. 


My  WPI  education  prepared  me  well  for  my  career. 


My  WPI  education  gave  me  skills  that  have  proven  valuable 
in  my  career,  such  as  teamwork,  leadership  and  the  ability 
to  communicate  professionally. 


My  WPI  experience  contributed  to  my  interpersonal, 
social  and  leadership  skills. 


I  feel  better  prepared  for  the  challenges  of  my  career 
than  colleagues  who  graduated  from  other  universities. 


WPI's  career  development  office  offers  adequate 
support  to  students  who  are  looking  for  a  job. 


I  received  adequate  training  in  writing  and  verbal  skills 
to  prepare  me  for  professional  life  since  graduation. 


As  a  result  of  my  WPI  education,  I  am  concerned  about 
social  issues  and  the  social  consequences  of  my  work. 


*  computed  using  numeric  values  of  responses:  5  =  strongly  agree. 
4  =  agree,  3  =  neutral,  2  =  disagree,  1  =  stronglydisagree 


not  remember  attending  an  event)  what  kept  them 
away.  More  than  40  percent  said  the  events  were 
simply  too  far  away.  Another  26  percent  said  they 
were  too  busy  with  work,  family  and  other  respon- 
sibilities. Thirteen  percent  said  they  had  no  inter- 
est in  the  events  or  didn't  feel  they  needed  to 
attend,  while  8  percent  said  they  didn't  know  what 
was  going  on  or  didn't  feel  connected  to  WPI. 
Interestingly,  the  percentage  of  alumni  giving  each 
of  these  responses  varied  little  among  the  four  age 
groups,  although  women  were  more  likely  than 

men  to  say  they  are 
too  busy  to 
attend  events. 
Not  surprisingly, 
the  farther  away 

n .  .  graduates  live 

96  percent  of  ?        TT7 

r  from  Worces- 
alumns  would  recommend  the  more 

WPI  to  prospective  students.  hke{y  ^  were 

•  More  than  90  percent  had  high      to  sav  ^ai  events 

praise  for  the  WPI  faculty.        are  too  far  away. 

Perceptions  of  WPI 

To  gauge  alumni  opinions  on  a  wide  range  of  topics 
relating  to  WPI  today,  participants  were  read  a  list 
of  statements  and  asked  whether  they  agreed  or  dis- 
agreed. Some  of  the  results  are  displayed  in  Table  3. 
Most  encouraging,  96  percent  of  alumni  surveyed 
said  they  would  recommend  WPI  to  prospective 
students.  At  least  90  percent  of  respondents  said 
they  agreed  that  WPI's  project-based  educational 
program  is  the  right  approach  for  students  today, 
that  WPI  is  a  positive  community  in  which  to  learn, 
and  that  the  faculty  helps  students  learn. 

A  few  questions  were  asked  only  of  graduates 
of  the  WPI  Plan  era.  For  example,  71  percent  of 
this  group  felt  women  students  are  comfortable  at 
WPI  (women  were  not  admitted  as  students  until 
1968)  and  16  percent  said  they  believe  faculty 
members'  research  takes  too  much  time  away 
from  teaching  (WPI  has  had  a  significant  research 
program  only  in  the  last  few  decades). 

Another  group  of  statements  focused  on  the 
student  experience  at  WPI  (see  Table  3).  Again, 
alumni  gave  high  marks  to  their  WPI  education. 
More  than  90  percent  of  alumni  said  the  WPI  fac- 
ulty had  taught  them  well  and  helped  them  learn. 
Participants  also  said,  by  margins  of  at  least  80  per- 
cent, that  their  education  prepared  them  well  for 
their  careers  and  prepared  them  to  work  quickly, 
to  solve  problems  at  work  and  to  work  well  in 
teams.  Eighty  percent  said  their  education  con- 
tributed to  their  interpersonal,  social  and  leader- 
ship skills.  Only  54  percent  of  alumni  said  they 
agreed  that  their  education  had  made  them  more 
concerned  about  social  issues,  although  students 
who  graduated  under  the  Plan  (with  its  emphasis 
on  the  interaction  between  science,  technology  and 
society)  were  more  likely  to  feel  WPI  had  made 
them  socially  aware. 

Spring  1996 


Keeping  Informed 

[f  the  survey  results  are  a  good  indication,  WPI 
alumni  do  not  feel  as  well  informed  about  WPI  as 
they'd  like  (see  graphic  below).  About  a  third 
described  themselves  as  not  very  familiar  or  not 
familiar  at  all  with  what  is  happening  at  the  Insti- 
tute today.  Only  9  percent  described  themselves 
as  very  familiar  with  the  current  state  of  their 
alma  mater.  Most  respondents  said  the  bulk  of  the 
news  they  receive  about  WPI  arrives  in  their  mail- 
boxes in  the  form  of  publications,  mailings  from 
the  Alumni  Association,  and  class  and  department 
newsletters  (only  3  percent  overall  learn  about 
WPI  through  their  local  newspapers). 

Because  of  the  importance  of 
these  printed  communication  I       / 

vehicles,  the  survey  devoted  sev-      %.     > 
eral  questions  to  perceptions 
about  the  WPI  Journal  and  its 
sister  publication,  the  HTI  Wire 
In  the  interest  of  time,  half  of  those 
surveyed  were  asked  to  comment  on 
the  Journal  and  half  on  the  Wire. 
Readership  patterns  for  both  publica- 
tions were  virtually 
identica 


V 


Financial  Matters 

Contributions  from  alumni  help  WIM  meet  its 
expenses,  offer  new  programs,  provide  students 
with  financial  aid,  and  expand,  renovate  and 
maintain  its  physical  plant.  Currently,  about  30 
percent  of  graduates  make  contributions  in  am 
given  year,  while  46  percent  have  supported  their 
alma  mater  during  the  past  five  years.  To  under- 
stand why  more  alumni  are  not  regular  donors, 
and  to  get  insights  into  what  makes  WIM  gradu- 
ates want  to  give — or  not  want  to  give — the  sur- 
vey included  several  questions  about  fund  raising. 
More  than  80  percent  of  respondents  report- 
ed that  they  usually  support  organizations  and 
causes  with  financial  contributions,  and  just  over 
70  percent  said  they  recall 

Why  do  you  contribute  to  WPI? 


v  I  appreciate  my  education 


13 


24 


More  than  50 
percent  of  alumni  support 
organizations  and  causes. 
About  70  percent  recalled  supporting 
WPI  within  the  past  five  years. 
Financial  reasons  and  gifts  to  other 
causes  were  cited  most  often  as 
reasons  for  not  giving  to  WPI. 
The  majority  cf  alumni  said  WPI's 
fund-raising  efforts  are  effective. 


to  help  others 


25 


10 


WPI  is  a  worthwhile  cause  /  school 


13 


to  help  out  /  help  programs 


received  financial  aid 


to  give  back  what  I  received 


obligation  /  responsibility 


loyalty 


WPI  is  doing  a  good  job 


WPI  is  deserving 


about  a 
third  of  alumni  said 
they  read  them  thoroughly  and 
about  two  thirds  page  through 
them.  Only  2  percent  of 
respondents  said  they  never 
read  WPI's  alumni  publications. 

Readers  of  both  publica- 
tions said  they  enjoy  getting 
news  about  other  alumni,  par- 
ticularly their  classmates,  and 
keeping  up  to  date  on  current  events  and  activi- 
ties at  WPI.  At  least  10  percent  of  Journal  readers 
said  they  also  like  the  topics  the  magazine  covers, 
the  variety  of  articles  and  the  coverage  of  the  fac- 
ulty. About  70  percent  of  readers  had  no  sugges- 
tions for  how  either  publication  could  be  im- 
proved. Those  who  did  offer  suggestions  asked 
for  more  information  on  alumni,  current  events 
and  students,  and  more  variety  in  the  articles. 
Five  percent  of  Wire  readers  would  like  to  see  the 
tabloid  published  more  frequently. 


other 


About  a  third  of 

alumni  are  not  very  familiar 

with  WPI  today. 

Most  alumni  get  their  WPI  news  from 

printed  communications. 

Most  alumni  read  the  Journal  and  WPI 

Wire  thoroughly  or  page  through  them. 

About  70  percent  of  readers  had  no 

suggestions  for  improving  these 

publications. 


supporting  WPI  during  the 
last  five  years.  The  percent- 
age who  give  in  general  and 
give  to  WPI  rose  steadily  with 
time  since  graduation.  Table  4 
summarizes  the  reasons  offered 
by  the  survey  group  for  giving 
to  the  Institute. 

People  who  reported  mak- 
ing no  contributions  to  WPI  in 
the  last  five  years  were  asked  if 
there  was  a  specific  reason  they 
had  not  donated.  Of  these,  1 2 
percent  refused  to  answer  or 
said  there  was  no  specific  rea- 
son. More  than  half  of  these  nondonors  cited 
financial  reasons  or  gifts  to  other  organizations. 
Sixteen  percent  cited  discontent  with  WPI — a 
poor  undergraduate  experience,  a  feeling  that 
WPI  is  not  deserving  or  as  deserving  as  other 
groups,  and  a  lack  of  agreement  with  WPI.  A 
poor  undergraduate  experience  was  cited  by  10  to 
12  percent  of  grads  in  die  classes  of  1975  to  1984 
and  1964  and  earlier. 

The  majority  of  respondents  said  WPI's  fund- 
raising  efforts  and  materials  are  at  least  somewhat 


11 


10 


43 


41 


33 


\b 


11 


44 


34 


12 


b 


43 


WPI  Journal 


17 


% 

15 
10 
7 
6 
4 
4 
4 

15 

14 

15 

10 

10 

9 

6 

5 

5 

4 

4 


27 


15 


6 


<1 


12 


12 


10 


11 


12 


12 


17 


16 


8 


16 


15 


15 


12 


18 


14 


17 


ft 


11 


15 


16 


15 


17 


b 


d 


effective  (somewhat  effective,  5 1  percent;  very 
effective,  28  percent).  The  12  percent  who  did  not 
find  those  efforts  and  materials  to  be  very  effective 
were  asked  why.  About  a  quarter  could  point  to  no 
specific  reason.  Ten  percent  said  solicitations  occur 
too  often.  Other  reasons  cited  included  the  need 
for  more  creativity,  a  need  to  define  better  how 
WPI  will  use  funds  alumni  donate,  and  the  need  to 
communicate  in  a  more  effective,  more  personal 
and  "less  pushy"  manner.  When 
asked  what  type  of  communi-  \      f 

cation  would  be  most  likely  to 
make  them  want  to  give,  «~ 

more  than  a  third  said  a  con- 
tact from  a  classmate.  Fund-rais- 
ing publications,  a  call  from  a  stu- 
dent and  a  letter  from  the  Alumni 
Association  were  other  popular 
suggestions. 


improving,  or  broadening  the  Institute's  educational 
programs.  More  than  20  percent  focused  on  finan- 
cial issues  (keeping  costs  down  and  offering  students 
adequate  aid),  while  nearly  20  percent  diought  the 
biggest  challenge  is  maintaining  adequate  and  up- 
to-date  facilities.  About  10  percent  said  WPFs  effort 
to  expand  its  reputation  and  create  a  national  image 
for  itself  were  at  the  top  of  the  list. 

About  a  third  of  alumni  had  no  advice  to  offer 
or  simply  asked  WPI  to  keep  doing  the 
good  job  they  say  it  is  doing. 
Twenty  percent  suggested 
WPI  keep  its  focus  on  students 
and  maintaining  the  quality  of 
its  programs.  Maintaining  the 
Alumni  said  WPI's      quality  of  the  WPI  Plan 
was  a  special  concern  for 
younger  alumni. 


3uick 
Make 


Dear  WPI... 

Before  the  phone  interviews  drew  to  a  close,  inter- 
viewers asked  alumni,  first,  what  that  believed  to 
be  the  greatest  challenges  WPI  faces  today,  and, 
second,  whether  they  had  any  advice  for  those  who 
manage  WPI's  day-to-day  affairs.  The  top  answers 
to  both  questions  are  printed  in  Table  5.  More  than 
35  percent  of  the  responses  to  the  first  question  fo- 
cused on  the  challenge  of  maintaining  the  quality  of, 

If  you  could  say  one  thing  to  the 
leadership  at  WPI,  what  would  it  be? 


greatest  challenge  is  main- 
taining the  quality  of  a  WPI  education. 
About  a  third  of  alumni  advised  WPI  to 
just  keep  up  the  good  work. 


keep  it  up  /  continue  as  you  are 


challenge  students/provide  quality  education 


doing  good  job  /  great  job 


maintain  quality  of  programs 


concentrate  on  reputation 


focus  on  students 


keep  /  improve  projects 


What  are  WPI's  greatest  challenges  and  needs? 


improve  education  /  prepare  students 


maintain  quality  of  programs 


keep  technology  up  to  date 


keep  costs  down 


recruit  top  students 


financial  stability  /  adequate  budget 


keep  curriculum  up  to  date 


create  national  /  international  image 


improve  reputation 


keep  good  faculty 


compete  with  other  schools 


18 


What's  Next? 

All  too  often,  major  studies 
like  the  survey  of  WPI  alumni  are  completed,  read 
and  placed  on  a  shelf  to  gather  dust.  "That  won't 
happen  with  this  study,"  Davis  says.  "There  are 
some  provocative  findings  that  will  be  of  use  to 
many  people  and  departments  at  WPI.  We've 
already  shared  the  survey  results  with  everyone  who 
may  find  them  of  value,  including  the  Admissions 
Office  and  the  Provost's  Office.  In  particular,  the 
level  of  satisfaction  alumni  feel  with  their  education 
and  with  the  educational  focus  of  the  Institute 
should  be  important  input  to  our  marketing  to 
prospective  students  and  out  efforts  to  improve  our 
educational  programs.  The  results  on  fund  raising 
have  already  proved  valuable  to  the  members  of  the 
Alumni  Fund  Board,  which  recendy  approved  a  new 
five-year  plan  for  the  Fund." 

Davis  says  the  Alumni  Association  will  use  the 
survey  as  the  foundation  of  a  major  effort  to  draft  a 
new  five-year  master  plan  for  alumni  activities  and 
programs.  The  plan  is  expected  to  be  approved 
during  the  next  academic  year.  To  expand  upon  the 
findings  concerning  attitudes  about  alumni  pro- 
grams and  services,  the  association  recently  com- 
pleted a  follow-up  survey  designed  by  a  committee 
that  included,  in  addition  to  the  members  of  the 
original  survey  subcommittee,  Christian  Baehrecke 
'56,  Kimberly  Bowers  '90,  Kevin  Doyle  '89, 
Stephen  Jackson  '89,  Douglas  Nashold  '95,  Edwin 
Shivell  '54  and  Joseph  Vignaly  '82.  Davis  says  the 
results  are  still  being  tallied. 

"Like  all  of  WPI's  programs  and  departments, 
the  Alumni  Office  has  a  limited  budget  with  which 
to  provide  a  wide  range  of  services,"  Davis  says. 
"It  makes  sense  for  us  to  use  those  funds  to  provide 
services  that  our  graduates  truly  enjoy  and  want, 
and  that  are  in  tune  with  the  kinds  of  lives  they  lead 
today.  Widi  the  help  of  the  follow-up  survey  we 
should  be  able  to  reshape  our  offerings  to  keep 
alumni  involved  in  and  informed  about  their  uni- 
versity." 

Spring  1996 

BUBHH 


A  Mechanical  Marvel 


KYLE  A  BROWN 


A  major  renovation  completed  last  fall  transfonned  Higgins  Laboratories, 

WPFs  home  for  mechanical  engineering  for  more  than  half  a  century,  into 

a  dramatically  new  and  highly  flexible  center  for  education  and  research. 

By  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  and  Michael  Dorsey 


WPI  Journal 


19 


;r 


As  they  have  done  for 
more  than  50  years, 
students  and  faculty 

members  swung  open 
the  doors  of  Higgins 
Laboratories  last  fall 

and  set  about  the  business  of 
teaching,  learning  and  explor- 
ing in  mechanical  engineering. 

But  the  building  they  entered  was 
dramatically  different  from  the  one 
the  Institute  dedicated  in  1942,  hav- 
ing undergone  a  dramatic  restoration 
and  redesign,  and  having  been 
expanded  through  the  construction 
of  a  17,000-square-foot  addition.  In 
the  new  Higgins  Labs,  one  can  find 
reflections  of  the  past,  present  and 
future  of  one  of  WPI's  original  aca- 
demic departments.  WPI  was  one  of 
the  first  institutions  in  the  U.S.  to 
offer  a  program  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering, and  its  early  graduates  went 
on  to  found  the  corporations  and 
create  the  inventions  that  helped 
drive  the  American  Industrial  Rev- 
olution. Since  those  early  days, 
the  department  has  made  its  mark 
through  its  innovative  approach 
to  education,  its  groundbreaking 
research,  and  the  accomplishments 
of  its  thousands  of  graduates.  And 
now,  with  a  modern,  attractive  and 
functional  building,  the  department 
stands  ready  to  face  the  challenges 
of  education  and  research  in  mechan- 
ical engineering  today  and  well  into 
the  2 1  st  century. 


20 


Spring  1996 


HHN 


When  the  Worcester  County  Free  Insti- 
tute of  Industrial  Science  opened  for 
business  in  November  1868,  only  a 
handful  of  disciplines  were  offered.  Of  these,  the 
board  of  trustees  noted,  "the  first  in  importance  is 
mechanical  engineering."  Post-Civil  War  America 
was  dominated  by  the  machine  and  by  dreams  of 
an  ever  more  mechanized  and  productive  world. 
The  new  discipline  of  mechanical  engineering 
was  the  key  to  turning  that  vision  into  a  reality. 

The  third  private  college  of  science  and  tech- 
nology in  the  country,  WPI  was  also  among  the 
first  to  offer  a  course  in  mechanical  engineering. 
Its  mechanical  engineering  students  and  instruc- 
tors became  pioneers  in  a  new  model  of  engineer- 
ing education.  WPI  was  the  first  technological 
school  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  laboratory 
methods  and  the  first  to  establish  the  workshop  as 
an  essential  part  of  training  in  engineering. 

The  Washburn  Shops  contained  a  model 
manufacturing  facility,  by  1868  standards.  It  was 
there  that  students,  working  with  journeymen 
factory  hands,  turned  out  products  for  sale  on  the 
open  market.  Profits  from  the  shop  helped  to 
support  the  new  school,  which  initially  charged 
no  tuition.  At  the  same  time,  students  became 
familiar  with  manufacturing  processes  and  the 
expectations  of  the  workers  they  would  find  in 
industry  following  graduation. 

WPFs  theory  and  practice  philosophy  became 
a  model  for  many  of  the  well  known  engineering 
schools  developed  in  the  latter  part  of  the  19di 
century,  including  Georgia  Institute  of  Technolo- 
gy and  Rose-Hulman  University.  Although 
changing  times  have  relegated  commercial  shops 
to  the  pages  of  history,  the  hands-on  philosophy 
pioneered  in  the  Washburn  Shops  is  still  the  hall- 
mark of  a  WPI  education. 

From  the  beginning,  mechanical  engineering 
was  the  most  popular  discipline  at  WPI,  and  its 
growing  enrollments  made  space  in  Washburn 
tight.  By  1 894,  a  new  a  facility  was  under  con- 
struction to  relieve  the  overcrowding.  The  four- 
story  brick  building  on  West  Street  was  known 
simply  as  "the  ME  building"  for  half  a  century, 
until  it  was  named  for  Charles  G.  Stratton  of  the 
Class  of  1875.  Rated  among  the  finest  mechanical 
engineering  buildings  in  the  East,  Stratton  was 
soon  joined  by  a  new  power  plant,  an  adjacent 
working  foundry,  and  a  hydraulics  laboratory  five 
miles  away  in  Holden.  The  Alden  Hydraulics 
Laboratory  would  become  world  renowned  for  its 
pioneering  work  in  fluid  flow;  it  was  spun  off  as 
an  independent  research  consulting  laboratory 
about  a  decade  ago. 

Guiding  the  fledgling  department  through  its 
formative  years  were  George  Ira  Alden,  the  first 
department  head,  and  Milton  Prince  Higgins, 
superintendent  of  the  Washburn  Shops.  These 
close  friends  were  highly  regarded  in  the  engi- 
neering community.  In  the  1880s  they  took  a 


leave  of  absence  to  help  establish  Georgia  Tech, 
and  both  declined  offers  to  remain  on  the  faculty 
there.  Both  men  left  WPI  in  1896  to  devote  full 
rime  to  the  Norton  Emery  Wheel  Co.,  which 
they  and  others  purchased  in  1885. 

Ralph  Farle,  who  became  WPI  president  in 
1925,  had  a  vision  of  developing  the  west  half  of 
the  campus.  In  1926,  Sanford  Riley  I  [all,  the  Insti- 
tute's first  residence  hall,  joined  Alumni  Gvmnasi- 
um  and  Alumni  Field  on  that  nearly  empty  parcel 
of  land.  The  Great  Depression  delayed  the  next 


i 


element  of  Earle  s  plan  (Alden  Memorial)  until 
1940.  With  the  gradual  growth  of  the  student  body 
and  continued  interest  in  mechanical  engineering, 
a  need  for  a  new  mechanical  engineering  building 
arose.  Earle  lived  to  see  plans  for  Higgins  Labora- 
tories approved,  but  died  before  construction  could 
begin. 

Higgins  Labs  was  nearly  complete  when 
America  was  suddenly  plunged  into  World  War 
II.  Fortunately,  most  critical  materials,  furnish- 
ings and  equipment  had  already  been  delivered, 
enabling  the  building  to  open  on  schedule  for  the 
spring  semester  in  1942.  No  elaborate  ceremonies 
marked  the  wartime  dedication. 

The  department  flourished  in  its  new  home. 
With  its  spacious,  well-lighted  drawing  rooms, 
ample  laboratory  space  and  a  roomy  lecture  hall, 
Higgins  Laboratories  served  the  department  well 
in  the  post-war  "GI  Bill"  and  "Baby  Boom"  years. 
But  by  the  time  the  Baby  Boomers  were  ready  to 
send  their  own  children  to  college,  the  Mechani- 
cal Engineering  Department  had  once  again 
found  itself  short  of  room  and  in  need  of  modern 
facilities. 

(Continued  on  page  23) 


Above,  Higgins  Labor- 
atories rises  inside  an 
envelope  of  scaffolding 
in  1941.  Opposite, 
workers  assemble  the 
new  1 7,000-square-foot 
addition  in  1994. 


WPI  Journal 


21 


Above  right,  Milton 

Prince  Higgins;  from 

top,  his  wife,  Kather- 

ine,  sons  Aldus  and 
John,  and  daughters 
Katherine  and  Olive. 


COROLLARY 


The  Name  Continues 


In  1941  WPI  chose  to  name  its  new 
mechanical  engineering  building 
Higgins  Laboratories.  It  was  a  well 
deserved  tribute  to  a  man  whose 
vision  was  instrumental  in  shaping  the 
educational  philosophy  of  this  highly 
regarded  institution. 

Milton  Prince  Higgins  supervised 
the  construction  of  the  Washburn 
Shops  and  served  as  its  first  superinten 
dent.  Under  his  direction,  the  shops 
became  a  model  manufacturing  facility 
where  students  combined  their  theoretical  studies 
with  practical,  on-the-job  training. 

Proof  of  the  value  of  this  approach  was  quick  in 
coming,  as  early  graduates  moved  into  key  industri- 
al positions.  By  the  turn  of  the  century,  Worcester 
was  a  major  manufacturing  center  that  relied  heavi- 
ly on  the  engineering  skills  of  WPI  alumni. 

With  George  Alden,  Higgins  and  others  pur- 
chased the  rights  to  a  fledgling  grinding  wheel 
business  and  in  1885  Norton  Emery  Wheel  Co. 
opened  for  business.  Alden  and  Higgins  continued 
in  their  WPI  posts  for  another  decade,  supervising 
their  company  on  a  part-time  basis.  By  then,  Nor- 
ton Co.,  which  Higgins  served  as  president  until 
his  death  in  1912,  was  well  on  the  way  to  becom- 
ing Worcester's  largest  employer. 

The  Higgins  home  long  stood  on  the  corner 
of  West  and  Salisbury  streets,  now  the  site  of 
Goddard  Hall.  Here,  Milton  and  Katherine  Hig- 
gins raised  four  children.  Sons  Aldus  and  John 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1893  and  1896,  respec- 
tively. Daughter  Katherine  married  R.  Sanford 
Riley  '96;  daughter  Olive  Higgins  Prouty  became 


a  noted  author  whose  works  include  the 
best  selling  novel  Stella  Dallas. 

The  four  children  jointly  gave 
one  of  the  largest  gift  units  in  Hig- 
gins Laboratories,  but  this  was  only  a 
part  of  the  family's  generosity  to 
WPI.  Katherine  Higgins  Riley  was 
the  largest  contributor  to  the  con- 
struction of  Sanford  Riley  Hall  in 
926,  which  was  named  in  memory  of 
er  late  husband.  John  W  Higgins  estab- 
ished  a  scholarship  in  1936  and  endowed  a 
special  professorship  in  mechanical  engineering. 
Aldus  C.  Higgins  is  best  remembered  for  his  gift 
of  the  Higgins  House  to  his  alma  mater,  though 
his  gift  to  the  college  of  a  parcel  of  land  adjacent 
to  Alumni  Field  indirectly  cleared  the  way  for 
Higgins  Labs  to  be  built  on  its  current  site.  Olive 
Higgins  Prouty  is  commemorated  on  campus 
through  the  Olive  Higgins  Prouty  Library  Fund. 
The  fund,  originated  by  a  bequest  from  Mrs. 
Prouty  and  augmented  by  generous  gifts  from  her 
son,  Richard  Prouty,  supports  WPI's  collection  in 
the  humanities. 

Although  not  an  alumnus,  Aldus  Higgins'  son, 
Milton  P.  Higgins  II,  served  WPI  as  a  trustee  for 
3 1  years,  six  of  them  as  chairman  during  the 
implementation  of  the  WPI  Plan  in  the  early 
1970s.  In  1986  WPI  established  the  Milton  P. 
Higgins  II  Distinguished  Professorship  in  Manu- 
facturing in  recognition  of  his  many  contributions 
to  the  welfare  of  the  Institute.  The  lecture  hall  in 
the  Washburn  Shops,  where  his  grandfather  made 
his  mark,  is  also  named  in  his  honor. 

— Roger  Perry 


22 


Spring  1996 


A  Mechanical  Marvel 

(Continued  from  page  2 1 ) 

The  need  <>t  the  Mechanical  Engineering 
Department  can  be  stated  very  simply.  It 
has  the  largest  enrollment  and  greatest 
space  requirements  of  all  departments.  Yet,  for 
years  its  major  activities  have  been  crowded  into 
an  inadequate  and  ill-arranged  laboratory."  That 
was  how  Wallace  Montague  '12,  chairman  of  the 
ways  and  means  committee  charged  with  earning 
out  President  Earle's  expansion  plans,  described 
the  rationale  for  a  new  mechanical  engineering 
building  in  1040.  It  is  also  an  apt  summary  of  the 
problems  the  department  faced  five  decades  later. 

Adequate  for  a  mechanical  engineering  pro- 
gram of  the  1940s,  1  liggins  Laboratories  was 
unable  to  fill  the  needs  of  the  much  larger  and 
technically  advanced  program  of  the  1990s. 
Undergraduate  enrollment  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering had  quadrupled  over  that  period,  and  the 
faculty  had  grown  threefold.  The  department's 
graduate  program  had  increased  by  leaps  and 
bounds,  a  reflection  of  a  major  increase  in  spon- 
sored research  (the  department's  $3.5  million  in 
external  funding  places  it  among  the  top  20 
departments  in  the  nation).  This  growth  left  1  lig- 
gins severely  overcrowded.  In  fact,  a  1989  studj 
ranked  WPFs  ME  Department  last  among  14 
similar  institutions  in  space  per  faculty  member,  a 
common  basis  for  comparison. 

The  need  for  more  space  hampered  the 
growth  of  many  vital  research  areas,  including 
applied  and  stochastic  mechanics,  biomechanics, 
biomaterials  and  rehabilitation,  computational 
mechanics,  materials  science,  structural  control 
and  earthquake  engineering,  thermo-fluid  and 
thermal  processes,  and  vibrations  and  controls. 
With  the  creation  a  quarter  century  ago  of  the 
WPI  Plan  (the  Institute's  innovative,  project- 
based  undergraduate  curriculum),  student  pro- 
jects— more  than  60  percent  of  which  are  now 
sponsored  by  corporations — became  a  vital  ele- 
ment in  the  department's  educational  efforts. 
I  low  ever,  there  was  no  dedicated  space  in  Hig- 
gins  for  student  project  work,  and  students  found 
themselves  laboring  in  closets,  in  garages,  and  on 
a  loading  dock.   The  department's  plans  to  imple- 
ment a  completely  new  undergraduate  mechanical 
engineering  curriculum,  one  designed  to  prepare 
students  for  the  demands  and  opportunities  of 
the  profession  well  into  the  21st  century,  were 
stymied  by  a  lack  of  modern  classrooms  and 
teaching  labs. 

Higgins  was  also  showing  its  age.  Its  exterior 
needed  refurbishment  and  the  interior  was 
becoming  threadbare,  making  a  poor  impression 
on  prospective  students  and  faculty  members. 
The  building's  electrical  service  and  heating,  ven- 
tilation and  cooling  system  had  also  become  inad- 
equate for  the  growing  demands  of  a  modern 


research  program,  and  some  of  the  building's 
structures  and  systems  (including  the  lack  of  an 
elevator)  were  not  up  to  current  building  codes. 
To  remedy  these  problems,  a  major  renova- 
tion and  expansion  was  planned,  to  start  in  the 
spring  of  1994.  The  project  would  include  the 
top-to-bottom  refurbishment  and  reorganization 
of  the  interior  spaces  of  the  85,000-square-foot 
building,  the  construction  of  nearlv  20.000  square 
feet  of  new  space  in  an  addition  and  through  the 
use  of  part  of  the  attic,  and  the  complete  upgrad- 
ing of  the  building's  utilities.  The  result  would  be 
an  entirely  new  1  liggins  Laboratories. 

A  project  as  large  and  as  complex  as  the  $8.5 
million  renovation  of  I  liggins  Laboratories  must 
be  planned  to  the  last  detail  before  the  first  shovel 
of  earth  is  turned.  Planning  for  the  1  [iggins 
restoration  and  expansion  was  carried  out  by  a 
large  group  of  interested  parties,  including  the 
faculty  of  the  VIE  Department,  the  Mechanical 
Engineering  Advisory  Committee,  the  WPI  Plant 
Services  Office,  the  Physical  Facilities  Committee 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  and  the  architects  and 
engineers  of  Cutler  Associates, 
the  Worcester  firm  that  would  com- 
plete the  design,  engineering  and 
construction. 

Over  the  course  of  more  than 
a  year,  the  current  and  future  plans 
and  dreams  of  the  department  and 
its  faculty  (with  their  concomitant 
space  requirements),  the  physical 
constraints  of  the  building  and 
building  site,  and  the  financial 
resources  available  to  complete  the 
project  were  carefully  weighed,  as 
plans  for  the  project  were  drafted 
and  redrafted. 

In  the  spring  of  1994,  construc- 
tion equipment  arrived  to  begin 
excavating  for  the  new  addition, 
which  would  be  carefully  fitted  into 
the  west  side  of  the  H-shaped  build- 
ing. In  this  space  would  rise  a  four- 
story,  1 7,000-square-foot  structure 
designed  to  symbolically  bridge  the  past  and 
future  of  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI  by  com- 
bining the  stately  brick  facade  of  the  original 
building  with  dramatic  three-story  windows  and  a 
modern,  glass  enclosed  entrywav. 

The  addition  would  give  Higgins  a  new 
entrance  on  the  Quadrangle  and  provide  consider- 
able interior  space  for  laboratories.  Its  subbase- 
ment  would  house  all  of  the  mechanical,  electrical 
and  plumbing  support  systems  for  the  renovated 
building,  freeing  up  space  that  had  once  contained 
transformers  and  other  electrical  and  mechanical 
equipment.  Additional  space  was  gained  by  using  a 
portion  of  the  original  building's  attic  for  graduate 
student  offices  and  laboratories. 

(Continued  on  page  24) 


The  renovation  of 
Higgins  Laboratories 
involved  the  complete 
rebuilding  of  most 
of  the  interior  of  the 
54-year-old  building. 


WPI  Journal 


23 


A  Mechanical  Marvel 

(Continued  from  page  23) 

The  completion  of  the  addition  was  the  critical 
first  step  in  the  renovation  of  Higgins  Laborato- 
ries, for  unlike  a  typical  refurbishment  project, 
this  one  would  proceed  while  the  building 
remained  in  full  operation.  The  next  step  was  to 
move  some  of  the  occupants  of  Higgins  into  the 
addition  and  to  renovate  the  space  thus  emptied. 
As  space  in  Higgins  was  refurbished,  other  occu- 
pants were  moved  in  to  fill  it,  opening  up  still 
more  space  for  renovation.  The  work  continued 
in  this  manner,  culminating  with  the  refurbish- 
ment of  several  common  spaces,  including  the 
first-floor  lecture  hall  and  the  Heald  Discovery 
Classroom  on  the  second  floor. 

The  renovation  was  completed  on  schedule  in 
the  fall  of  1995.  The  product  was  a  building  that 
retained  the  character  of  the  original  structure 
(albeit  with  new  energy-conserving  windows, 
upgraded  utilities,  new  heating  and  cooling  sys- 
tem, and  a  service  elevator),  while  meeting  the 
needs  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Department 
today  and  well  into  the  21st  century.  Accomplish- 
ing the  latter  task  required  extensive  reorganiza- 
tion of  existing  facilities  and  the  creation  of  new 
spaces. 

This  reorganization  included  the  clustering 
of  all  faculty  offices  by  area  of  interest  into  three 
suites  on  the  first  and  second  floors,  and  the  re- 
location of  the  main  department  offices  to  the 
southwest  corner  of  the  building.  In  addition, 
several  research  areas  received  expanded  facilities. 
The  Center  for  Holographic  Studies  and  Laser 
Technology,  for  example,  now  conducts  research 
and  education  in  areas  ranging  from  fundamental 
studies  of  laser  light  interaction  with  materials  to 
sophisticated  applications  in  micromechanics  and 
mechatronics  in  10  new  state-of-the-art,  climate- 
controlled  laboratories.  Its  activities  are  interna- 
tionally recognized  in  this  field. 

A  suite  of  bioengineering  laboratories,  for 
work  in  biomechanics,  biomaterials  and  rehabili- 
tation engineering,  was  created  on  the  first  floor, 
supporting  faculty  and  graduate  student  research 
and  student  projects  in  these  fields.  The  Richard 
A.  Lufkin  Fluid  Dynamics  and  Thermal  Processes 
Laboratories,  on  the  basement  level  and  third 
floor,  include  facilities  (such  as  a  water  tunnel  and 
a  wind  tunnel)  for  work  in  thermo-fluids,  hydro- 
dynamics, fluid  mechanics,  heat  transfer  and 
microgravity  studies.  A  remodeled  and  expanded 
lab  on  the  lower  level  will  support  work  in  vibra- 
tions and  controls. 

Some  of  the  most  exciting  spaces  in  the  new 
Higgins  Laboratories  were  created  specifically  for 
education.  They  include  the  remodeled  lecture 
hall  on  the  first  floor,  rebuilt  as  a  multimedia 
classroom  complete  with  video  projection  facili- 

(Continued  on  page  26) 


Clockwise  from  above,  the  attrac- 
tive and  functional  offices  of  the 
Mechanical  Engineering  Depart- 
ment; the  new  addition  includes  a 
modern  entryway  and  an  elevator; 
the  large  project  laboratory  in  the 
lower  level  of  Higgins  has  ample 
room  for  building  larger  MQPs  (like 
the  race  car  and  hovercraft  under 
construction  here)  and  direct 
access  to  the  machine  shop;  a 
wind  tunnel  lab,  part  of  the  new 
Lufkin  Fluid  Dynamics  and  Thermal 
Processes  Laboratory;  the  Higgins 
Design  Studio,  an  element  of  the 
innovative  new  W.  M.  Keck  Design 
Center. 


24 


Sprint;  1996 


sum 


I 


a 


\ 


I . 


i 


,f      ■  1 


WPI  Journal 


25 


A  Mechanical  Marvel 

(Continued  from  page  24) 

ties.  The  Heald  Discovery  Classroom  on  the  sec- 
ond level  is  a  showcase  of  modern  educational 
technology.  A  computer  network  makes  it  possi- 
ble for  students  to  take  part  in  interactive  class 
lessons.  A  large  video  screen  is  equipped  with 
telecommunications  and  video  link  capabilities. 
When  it  is  not  being  used  for  classes,  the  room  is 
available  to  students  who  wish  to  explore  self- 
paced  computer  learning  modules. 


COROLLARY 


A  New  Home  for 

Fire  Protection, 

Too 


*SR 


H^fea^fl  -'.  $ 

The  cone  calorimeter  in  the 
Fire  Science  Laboratory. 


Mechanical  engineering  graduates  of 
the  19th  century,  including  Henry 
Phillips,  Class  of  1893,  and  George 
Rockwood,  Class  of  1888,  made  major  contri- 
butions to  the  field  of  fire  safety,  never  know- 
ing that  many  years  later  WPI  would  offer 
degrees  in  fire  protection  engineering.  The 
Institute  began  offering  the  world  s  first  mas- 
ter of  science  degree  in  the  discipline  in  1979; 
it  offered  the  first  Ph.D.  in  fire  protection 
engineering  beginning  in  1991. 

Today,  WPI  is  the  world  leader  in  fire  pro- 
tection engineering  education.  Higgins  Labo- 
ratories has  been  home  to  the  program  since 
its  inception.  The  recent  renovation  project 
not  only  gave  the  program  a  modern  new 
home,  but  created  a  new  state-of-the-art  Fire 
Science  Laboratory. 


Adjacent  to  the  Discovery  Classroom  is  the 
W.M.  Keck  Design  Center,  the  heart  of  a  new 
approach  to  teaching  engineering  (an  approach 
WPI  is  exploring  as  the  lead  institution  in  a  five- 
university  consortium  funded  by  an  $8.7  million 
grant  from  the  federal  Technology  Reinvestment 
Program).  The  center's  components  are  the  Com- 
puter Laboratory,  where  students  use  personal 
computers  and  computer-aided  design  software  to 
learn  the  techniques  of  modern  design;  the  Com- 
puter Simulation  Laboratory,  a  general  purpose 
microcomputer  lab  for  work  in  modern  dynamic 
and  geometric  simulation  techniques;  and  the 
Higgins  Design  Studio,  where  students  can  use 
high-end  workstations  and  video  link  facilities  to 
design  and  remotely  manufacture  prototype  prod- 
ucts— discussing  their  work  in  real  time  with 
remote  sponsors  and  watching  their  designs  pro- 
duced on  remote  rapid  prototyping  facilities.  In 
the  Design  Center,  students  apply  what  they  learn 
in  the  classroom  by  making  real  products,  just  as 
students  did  generations  ago  in  the  Washburn 
Shops. 

Two  new  rooms  answer  the  department's  need 
for  dedicated  space  for  student  project  work.  On 
the  third  floor  is  a  laboratory  for  work  on  smaller 


projects  that  do  not  require  extensive  space  or 
specialized  support  facilities.  Occupying  more 
than  2,000  square  feet  on  the  lower  level  of  the 
building  is  a  general-purpose  lab  for  work  on 
larger  Major  Qualifying  Projects.  Room  is  avail- 
able for  assembling,  testing  and  storing  large 
machines  and  devices.  The  lab  has  ready  access  to 
the  department's  machine  shop,  with  its  team  of 
technicians  and  instructors. 

Nearly  130  years  ago,  WPI's  first  Mechan- 
ical Engineering  Department  head  and 
the  first  superintendent  of  the  Washburn 
Shops  pioneered  a  novel  approach  to  engineering 
education,  one  that  balanced  the  formulas  and 
theories  students  learned  in  the  classroom  with 
the  grit  and  elbow  grease  of  real  manufacturing. 
The  model  George  Alden  and  Milton  Higgins 
established  has  served  WPI  well  ever  since,  and 
continues  today  in  the  innovative  WPI  Plan. 

Now  WPI's  Mechanical  Engineering  Depart- 
ment stands  at  the  brink  of  a  new  century.  Like 
all  engineering  educators,  the  mechanical  engi- 
neering faculty  must  look  ahead  to  the  challenges 
and  opportunities  the  new  millennium  will  bring. 
According  to  Mohammad  Noori,  who  has  been 
head  of  the  Mechanical  Engineering  Department 
since  1991,  they  include 

•  the  challenge  of  building  partnerships 
with  business  and  industry,  and  the 
opportunities  those  partnerships  represent 
to  sharpen  the  department's  curriculum 
and  further  build  its  research  efforts. 

•  the  challenge  of  integrating  undergradu- 
ate and  graduate  education,  and  the 
opportunity  to  expose  undergraduates  to 
state-of-the-art  research  and  to  enrich  the 
graduate  education  experience. 

•  the  challenge  to  build  a  multidisciplinary 
mechanical  engineering  curriculum  and 
the  opportunity  to  prepare  students  for 
the  new  careers  and  fields  that  will 
emerge  in  the  years  ahead. 

With  the  renovation  and  improvement  of  Higgins 
Laboratories,  the  Mechanical  Engineering 
Department  now  has  the  modern,  well-equipped 
and  flexible  facility  it  needs  to  pursue  these  goals 
and  to  build  on  the  foundation  of  excellence  it 
has  established  over  the  past  130  years.  With  a 
larger  and  improved  facility,  it  can  expand  its  pro- 
gram of  research.  With  a  host  of  state-of-the-art 
educational  facilities,  it  has  the  tools  to  create  an 
innovative  curriculum  that  will  prepare  its  grad- 
uates to  be  the  leaders  of  the  2 1st  century  and 
serve  as  a  model  for  colleges  and  universities 
across  the  country.  But  most  of  all,  the  Mechan- 
ical Engineering  Department  can  launch  a  new 
era  in  its  history  in  a  building  befitting  its  proud 
heritage  and  its  exciting  future. 


26 


Spring  1996 


COROLLARY 


A  Campus  To  Be  Proud  Of 


Higgins  Laboratories  is  many  things  to 
many  people.  But  at  its  core  it  is  a  physical 
structure — a  collection  of  bricks,  steel  beams,  roof 
tiles,  pipes,  cables,  doors  and  windows — diat  pro- 
vides shelter  from  the  elements,  encloses  functional 
spaces  for  learning  and  research,  and  delivers  the 
sen  ices — light,  power,  water — that  its  occupants 
need  to  go  about  their  business.  It  is  one  element  in 
a  complex  physical  plant  that  now  comprises  more 
than  3  1  major  buildings  and  38  houses  (some  1.3 
million  gross  square  feet  of  interior  space,  in  all)  on 
an  80-acre  campus. 

Maintaining  those  buildings — and  the  miles  of 
sidewalks,  roads,  parking  lots  and  green  spaces 
that  connect  and  surround  them — falls  to  the 
nearly  80  employees  of  WPI's  Plant  Services 
Department.  Those  many  tradespeople,  custodi- 
ans, groundskeepers  and  other  specialists  report  to 
John  E.  Miller,  director  of  physical  plant,  who  has 
since  1982  overseen  the  gargantuan  task  of  keep- 
ing up — and  continually  improving — the  physical 
environment  that  supports  the  Institute's  primary 
missions  of  creating  new  knowledge  and  educating 
future  generations. 

The  Higgins  Laboratories  project  is  just  the 
latest  in  a  series  of  major  construction  and  renova- 
tion projects  that  have  come  to  fruition  under 
Miller's  direction.  Shortly  after  his  arrival  on  the 
VVTI  campus,  the  Institute  began  a  top-to-bottom 
restoration  of  the  Washburn  Shops,  one  of  its  first 
two  buildings.  The  project  involved  the  nearly 
complete  gutting  of  the  structure's  shopworn  inte- 
rior and  the  construction  within  its  brick  facade  of 
a  modern  facility  for  work  in  manufacturing, 
materials  and  management. 

The  following  year,  WPI  built  a  230-student 
residence  hall  between  Boynton  and  Dean  streets. 
Founders  Hall  received  the  Boston  Society  of 
Architects  Export  Award  and  a  design  citation 
from  American  School  and  University  magazine. 
Around  the  same  time,  WPI's  outdoor  athletic 
facilities  underwent  a  complete  reconstruction — 
including  the  installation  of  a  synthetic-surfaced 
playing  field  and  track;  and  Higgins  House,  the 
Tudor-style  mansion  donated  to  WPI  by  Aldus 
Higgins,  was  remodeled  into  a  campus  conference 
center  and  a  home  for  the  Alumni  Office. 

More  recently,  Miller  supervised  the  construc- 
tion of  the  $10  million  Fuller  Laboratories,  home 
of  the  Computer  Science  Department,  the  College 
Computer  Center  and  the  Instructional  Media 
Center,  and  the  transformation  of  Alden  Memorial 
into  a  modern  and  beautiful  home  for  the  per- 
forming arts  at  VVTI.  The  $2.7  million  Alden 


project  was  honored  with  the  prestigious  Silver 
Hammer  Award  from  the  Worcester  Area  Cham- 
ber of  Commerce.  This  summer,  Miller  will  over- 
see the  renovation  of  Sanford  Riley  I  lall,  the  Insti 
tute's  first  residence  hall,  the  conversion  of  part  of 
West  Street  into  a  pedestrian  mall,  and  the  refur- 
bishment of  several  biology  and  biotechnology 
research  laboratories  in  Salisbury  Labs. 

These  major  projects  are  only  the  tip  of  the 
iceberg  for  Plant  Services.  Over  the  last  decade  or 
so,  dozens  of  laboratories, 
classrooms  and  offices  have 
been  created  or  renovated, 
houses  have  been  refurbished 
and  turned  into  offices  for 
several  campus  departments 
(including  Plant  Services 
itself),  and  thousands  of 
hours  have  been  spent  just 
maintaining  the  existing 
physical  plant  in  an  attractive 
and  functional  state. 

"Throughout  his  tenure 
at  WPI,  John  Miller  has 
worked  to  address  mainte- 
nance issues  before  they 
become  crises,"  says  Stephen 
J.  Hebert  '66,  vice  president 
for  administration  and  trea- 
surer. "WPI  probably  has  the 
same  deferred  maintenance 
backlog  as  any  similar  college 
or  university.  But  John  has 
stayed  on  top  of  it  by  being 
innovative  in  his  management 
of  the  physical  plant  and  cre- 
ative with  his  budget  during 
these  tight  fiscal  times." 

"We  tend  to  take  WPI's  physical  plant  for 
granted,"  Miller  says,  "but  it  plays  an  enormously 
important  role  in  the  success  of  the  Institute. 
Attractive,  well-designed  and  well-maintained 
buildings  and  grounds  make  WPI  appealing  to 
prospective  students,  make  possible  our  work  of 
teaching,  learning  and  research,  and  create  a  posi- 
tive and  comfortable  atmosphere  for  our  entire 
community." 

Adds  Hebert,  "John  Miller  and  his  people 
have  given  WPI  a  competitive  advantage.  They 
believe  that  quality,  whether  it  be  with  daily  main- 
tenance or  with  new  construction,  is  the  top  prior- 
ity. They  provide  a  campus  and  a  work  and  learn- 
ing environment  we  all  can  be  proud  of." 

— Michael  Dorsey 


John  Miller,  left, 
confers  with  Jamie 
Fontaine,  foreman  for 
Monaco  Renovations. 
The  company  is  com- 
pleting the  restoration 
of  the  exterior  of 
Sanford  Riley  Hall 
(in  background). 


WPI  Journal 


27 


The 

Wizard  of 
Asheville 


By  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45 


EDITOR'S  NOTE:  John  van  Alstyne  is  a  familiar 
figure  to  several  generations  of  alumni.  He  came  to 
WPI  as  a  professor  of  mathematics  in  1961,  intending 
to  stay  just  one  year;  he  departed  28  years  later,  having 
also  served  10  years  as  director  of  academic  advising. 
Few  faculty  members  in  WPFs  history  have  been  so 
devoted  to  their  students,  and  few  have  been  so  beloved 
by  them.  When  he  stood  to  say  an  early  good-bye  at 
Commencement  in  1987,  the  standing  ovation  he 
received  shook  the  rafters  in  Harrington  Auditorium. 
Roger  Peny  recently  visited  van  A  in  North  Carolina 
and  filed  this  report  on  his  busy  retirement. 


28 


Many  were  the  WPI  freshmen  strug- 
gling with  their  first  college-level 
mathematics  courses  who  concluded 
that  Professor  John  van  Alstyne  must  have  been  a 
wizard  as  he  stood  at  the  blackboard  whipping 
through  a  calculus  problem.  Now  retired  and  liv- 
ing in  Asheville,  N.C.,  van  Alstyne  has  become  a 
real,  celebrated  wizard  of  sorts. 

"One  of  the  first  things  I  did  after  retiring  in 
1989  and  moving  to  Asheville  was  sign  up  for  sev- 
eral courses  at  the  College  for  Seniors,"  he  says. 
"This  is  a  program  for  retired  people  held  at  a 
branch  of  the  University  of  North  Carolina.  I've 
been  involved  there  ever  since — as  a  student,  as 
a  teacher  and,  for  several  years,  as  registrar. 

"It  was  in  one  of  these  classes  that  I  met  Bill 
Brittain,  who,  I  learned,  was  a  writer  of  more  than 
90  published  mystery  stories.  He  formerly  lived  in 
New  York  state,  as  did  I.  We  hit  it  off  quite  well. 
One  day  he  said,  'I've  got  an  idea  for  a  children's 
story.  Would  you  have  any  objection  if  I  dedicated 
it  to  you?'  I  was  very  pleased  and  told  him  to  go 
ahead.  He  didn't  tell  me  I  was  going  to  be  in  it!" 

Van  Alstyne  heard  nothing  more  about  the 
book  for  a  year.  "Then  I  went  to  the  annual  board 
meeting  of  the  College  for  Seniors,  of  which  Bill's 
wife,  Ginny,  was  a  member.  The  meeting  had  just 
about  ended  when  the  head  of  the  program  said, 
'Ginny  wants  to  make  a  presentation.' 

"She  said  her  husband  had  been  writing  some 
books,  working  with  an  illustrator  named  James 
Warhola,  who,  I  learned  later,  is  the  nephew  of 
Andy  Warhol.  She  said  he  had  done  two  special 
paintings  for  Bill,  and  that  Bill  wanted  them  to  go 
to  me  in  appreciation  for  everything  I'd  done  for 
the  college.  Then  she  held  up  two  beautifully 
done  pictures,  in  full  color,  each  about  10  by  15 
inches.  They  were  portraits — of  me!" 

Several  months  later,  Bill  Brittain  presented 
van  Alstyne  with  a  copy  of  the  first  book,  The 
Wizards  and  the  Monster  (HarperCollins  Chil- 
dren's Books).  The  main  character,  a  substitute 
fifth-grade  teacher  named  Mr.  Merlin,  bears  an 
uncanny  resemblance  to  van  Alstyne.  "Bill  told 
me  that  Warhola  had  created  the  artwork  strictly 
from  Bill's  description  of  me,"  van  Alstyne  says. 
"I  told  him  I  thought  the  illustrations  were  won- 
derful and  looked  just  like  me.  He  passed  my 
comments  along  to  the  worried  artist,  who  earlier 
had  asked,  'He's  not  going  to  sue  me,  is  he?'" 

A  second  book  featuring  Mr.  Merlin,  The 
Mystery  of  the  Several  Sevens,  came  out  a  few 
months  later.  Since  then,  van  Alstyne  says,  he's 
autographed  many  copies  of  both  volumes  for  chil- 
dren of  former  students.  "My  own  grandson  was 
born  at  just  about  that  time,"  he  says.  "I  thought, 
'what  a  nice  gift  the  portraits  and  the  books  will  be 
for  him  to  enjoy  when  he  grows  older.'" 

Brittain's  books  take  Mr.  Merlin,  Becky  and 
Simon,  two  of  his  brighter  students,  back  to  the 


Spring  1996 


legendary  times  of  King  Arthur.  There,  Mr. 
Merlin,  a. La.  Merlin  the  Wizard,  guides  them 
through  a  series  of  adventures  that,  not  unexpect- 
edly, involve  mathematics. 

"I  gave  copies  ot  the  hooks  to  the  librarian  at 
the  Country  Day  School,  where  I  teach,"  van 
Alstyne  says.  "About  two  weeks  later,  as  I  walked 
across  the  campus,  I  passed  a  group  of  ele- 
mentary students  who  were  not  in  my  class. 
They  were  smiling  and  pointing  at  me, 
so  I  knew  they'd  seen  the  books.  Then  I 
started  teaching  at  a  city  middle  school, 
and  the  kids  there  would  also  smile  and 
point.  So  now  I'm  famous.  They  don't 
know  who  I  am,  but  they  know  I'm  the 
one  in  the  book.  And  since  they  think  I 
am,  I  guess  that  makes  me  a  wizard." 

John  van  Alstyne  retired  as  dean  of 
academic  advising  and  professor  of 
mathematical  sciences  in  1989  and 
moved  to  Asheville.  "Although  I  thor- 
oughly enjoyed  my  years  at  WPI,  one  of 
the  reasons  I  moved  to  Asheville  was  that 
it  was  far  enough  away  from  Worcester 
so  when  I  picked  up  the  newspaper,  I 
wasn't  going  to  read  about  WPI," 
he  says.  "If  I  were  closer, 
I  would  read  about  it  and  ^ymJ^* 

miss  not  being  a  part  of  it.         SsJ*/\ 

"I  had  visited  Ashe-  rr? 

ville  twice  before  and  I 
liked  the  area.  And  my 
daughter  was  then  working  for  the  U.S. 
Forestry  service  here.  I  love  the  moun- 
tains and  the  moderate  climate  in  western 
North  Carolina,  too." 

After  he'd  been  in  the  state  for  a  few 
weeks,  his  daughter  took  him  to  the  university 
to  find  out  about  the  College  for  Seniors.  He 
signed  up  for  four  courses  that  semester,  in- 
cluding one  on  ceramics  and  one  on  real  and 
mythical  figures  in  British  history.  "I  also  took 
a  course  on  the  difficulties  between  the  people 
of  the  Muslim  faith  and  the  Western  world 
taught  by  a  man  from  Turkey,"  says  van  Alstyne. 

When  the  director  of  the  college  found  out 
he'd  done  scheduling  at  WPI,  she  asked  if  he 
would  like  to  help  with  that  function  there  as  well 
That  spring,  she  announced  that  she  was  leaving 
and  asked  van  Alstyne  if  he  would  take  over  the 
running  of  the  college.  "I  told  her  I  really  didn't 
think  I  should  do  that  because  I  hadn't  been  there 
long  enough,  but  I  would  be  glad  to  help  out 
until  someone  else  was  appointed,"  he  says. 
"So  I  was  acting  head  for  three  months. 
Since  then  I  have  been  the  registrar." 

In  1989,  van  Alstyne's  daughter,  who 
was  then  teaching  at  a  private  day  school, 
told  her  father  she  knew  a  few  students  who 
had  finished  even'  math  course  the  school  offered. 

(Continued  on  page  30) 


WPI  Journal 


29 


"The  year  after  I 
worked  with  them, 
they  took  the  SATs  as 
high  school  freshmen 
and  all  scored  over 
1200.  They  were 
disappointed  because 
they  had  to  be  sopho- 
mores before  they 
could  compete  for  the 
National  Merit 
Scholarships. " 


1 


The  Wizard  of  Asheville 

(Continual  from  page  29) 

"She  wondered  if  I  could  teach  them  a  step  up,"  he 
says.  "So  I  started  in  with  only  two  students  and 
taught  them  what  would  have  been  Calculus  III 
and  Diffy  Qs  (differential  equations)  at  WPI.  They 
later  took  the  university  exam.  One  of  them,  at  the 
age  of  17,  earned  the  highest  grade  of  all  the  stu- 
dents who  took  that  exam." 

Van  Alstyne  then  began  teaching  younger  stu- 
dents, working  through  a  pro- 
gram called  MATHCOUNTS,  a 
national  initiative  sponsored  by 
several  engineering  societies.  He 
coached  a  team  of  students  who 
went  on  to  win  the  Western 
North  Carolina  MATHCOUNTS  cham- 
pionship. "I  started  by  teaching  them 
beginning  algebra  and  went  right 
through  to  matrix  theory,  linear  alge- 
bra, and  topics  like  that.  The  year  after  I 
worked  with  them,  they  took  the  SATs 
as  high  school  freshmen  and  all  scored 
over  1200.  They  were  disappointed 
because  they  had  to  be  sophomores 
before  they  could  compete  for  the 
National  Merit  Scholarships." 
In  time,  he  starting  tutoring 
students,  mostly  disadvantaged 
youngsters,  in  the  public  high 
schools,  as  well  as  students  from  the  university.  "I 
ended  up  with  about  30  students  a  year  in  10  to  12 
different  courses,  from  beginning  algebra  on  up. 
At  Asheville  High,  I  was  given  a  room  during  the 
regular  school  day  so  I  could  teach  rather  than  just 
tutor  students.  The  university  students  would  meet 
with  me  after  hours  in  the  office  that  comes  with 
the  job  of  registrar  for  the  College  for  Seniors." 

When  he's  not  been  engaged  in  teaching 
mathematics,  van  Alstyne  has  devised  a  few  cours- 
es for  the  college.  They  include  "'Tis  a  Puzzle- 
ment," a  look  at  various  number  systems  that 
"helps  the  seniors  who  might  never  have  had 
much  math  get  some  idea  where  math  has  come 
from.  I  also  taught  a  course  on  oral  history 
because  I  had  gained  some  experience  with  this 
while  serving  as  an  advisor  at  WPI's  London  and 
Washington,  D.C.,  project  centers." 

Though  he  endeavored  to  get  away  from 
Worcester  and  the  university  he  served  for  28 
years,  van  Alstyne  says  he  does  miss  the  campus 
community.  "I  really  enjoy  college  people  and 
would  miss  not  having  an  academic  affiliation," 
he  says.  "If  there  was  not  a  university  here  in 
Asheville  for  me  to  become  a  part  of,  I'd  have 
found  it  very  difficult.  But  here  I've  gotten  to 
know  a  lot  of  the  undergraduates.  Since  my  name 
is  unfamiliar  to  them,  I  tell  them  to  just  call  me 
"van  A."  That's  what  I've  been  called  by  students 
for  many  years.  Even  the  new  chancellor  calls  me 
van  A. 


Van  Alstyne  enjoys  taking  long  walks  near  his 
home  in  Asheville  and  taking  in  the  lush  scenery. 
"I  do  miss  the  changing  fall  colors.  There  are  very 
few  maples  down  here,  so  what  we  get  are  shades 
of  browns,  tans  and  yellows,  but  none  of  those 
marvelous  scarlets  or  golds  I  remember  from  New 
England.  The  first  year  I  was  here,  I  went  up  onto 
the  Blue  Ridge  Parkway  thinking,  'Oh,  good.  I  can 
go  for  miles  amidst  the  beautiful  fall  colors.'  I  went 
for  miles,  but  I  never  saw  any  of  the  colors  I  knew 
from  up  north." 

While  the  fall  colors  may  disappoint,  van 
Alstyne  says  the  region  abounds  in  wildlife — he's 
even  spied  a  bear  near  his  house — which  he 
enjoys  seeing  on  hikes  and  mountain  climbs  with 
his  daughter  and  young  grandson.   "He  has 
reached  the  stage  where  he  loves  words,"  van 
Alstyne  says.  "He  likes  words  that  rhyme,  so  I 
have  to  figure  out  stories  with  words  that  use  the 
same  sound  in  different  ways.  I  tell  him  about  the 
fox  that  locks  his  sox  with  the  clocks  in  a  box,  for 
example.  He  thinks  that's  just  great." 

Van  A  has  also  become  involved  with  the  local 
music  scene.  "Here  in  Asheville,  we  have  a  pretty 
good  symphony  orchestra.  I've  been  going  to  that 
since  I  came  here.  Then  we  have  an  Asheville 
Community  Concert  Series;  I  got  put  on  the 
board  of  that  for  a  while.  I'm  a  member  of  a  local 
chamber  music  group,  and  they  wanted  me  to 
serve  on  their  board,  but  I  suggested  that  they 
give  someone  else  a  chance. 

"Then  I  go  over  to  Warren  Wilson  College, 
which  it  not  very  far  away.  They  have  a  summer 
music  festival  much  like  the  Marlborough  Festival 
in  Vermont.  I  help  them  when  I  can.  I've  also 
been  asked  to  join  a  couple  of  clubs,  but  for  that 
I  guess  they'll  have  to  wait  until  I  'retire'." 

Perry  is  senior  writer  for  WPVs  development  news- 
letter, Quest. 


For  John  van  Alstyne 
.  and  gladly  teach." 

FROM   THE  WU2-A«D,  ^e 

The  cwaR-T*iS4<ia  mz/ird 

J- 


u 


The  dedication  to  van  Alstyne  in  The  Wiz- 
ards and  the  Monster  and  beneath  it  van  A's 
own  whimsical  dedication  to  a  friend. 


30 


Spring  1996 


mra 


It's  Time  to  Give  WPI 
a  New  Name 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

This  was  the  last  straw!  It's  really  time  to 
retire  (bury,  excise,  consign  to  history)  the 
name  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 

Recently  I  had  the  occasion  to  call  WPI. 
Not  having  the  number  on  hand,  I  called 
directory  assistance  and  was  given  the  num- 
ber 799-1945.  Although  it  didn't  sound 
familiar,  I  dialed  it.  The  answering  voice 
said  something  in  garbled  diction  that 
included  the  words  "Worcester"  and  "Insti- 
tute" and  something  like  "Tech."  I  asked, 
"Is  this  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute?" 
The  voice  replied  that  it  was  Worcester 
Technical  Institute.  I  asked  if  this  confusion 
happened  often,  and  the  answer  was,  "All 
the  time." 

For  those  who  don't  know  (and  I  suspect 
few  people  outside  Worcester  do),  Worces- 
ter Technical  Institute  is  a  trade  school 
located  only  a  few  blocks  from  WPI.  To  add 
to  the  confusion,  they  have  just  as  much  a 
right  to  the  name  "Worcester  Tech"  as 
WPI  does. 

Another  incident  that  stuck  in  my  craw 
happened  a  few  years  back.  As  I  drove  past 
Worcester  Industrial  Technical  Institute  (as 
Worcester  Technical  Institute  was  known  at 
the  time)  with  a  friend,  he  asked  if  this  is 
where  I  went  to  school.  I  assured  him  it  was 
not,  but  again,  one  can  see  how  confusion 
reigns. 

Add  to  this  the  fact  that,  at  times, 
Worcester  becomes  Worchester  or  Woost- 
er,  Polytechnic  becomes  Polytechnical  or 
Technical,  with  only  Institute  remaining 
unscathed.  All  this  confusion  can  easily  be 
rectified  by  the  logical  process  of  a  name 
change.  The  only  question,  then,  is  what 
name? 

Name  changes  for  colleges  are  not 
unusual.  For  instance,  Trinity  University 
became  Duke  University,  Case  Institute  of 
Technology  became  Case  Western  Reserve 
University,  Carnegie  Institute  of  Technolo- 
gy became  Carnegie  Mellon  University, 
Alabama  Polytechnic  Institute  became 
Auburn  University,  and  so  on. 

Given  that  the  Alden  family  and  the 
George  I.  Alden  Trust  have  been  major 
benefactors  to  WPI  over  the  years,  how 
simple  and  clear  and  beautiful  and  uncon- 
fusing  it  would  be  to  rename  the  school 
Alden  University.  The  only  confusion  then 
might  be  with  John  and  Priscilla  of 
Mayflower  Pilgrim  fame. 


LETTERS 


If  Worcester  County  Free  Institute  of 
Industrial  Science  can  become  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  then  Worchester 
Polytechnical  Institute  (oops!)  can  become 
Alden  University. 

erling  lagerholm  +4 
Carmel,  Calif. 

Proud  of  Sacco's 
Achievement 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

Congratulations  to  Professor  Sacco  ("Com- 
ing Home,"  Winter  1996)  and  the  entire 
WPI  community.  As  I  sit  on  a  plane  travel- 
ing my  25,OOOth  air  mile  for  1996,  I  realize 
how  much  we  take  air  travel  for  granted, 
and  how  little  we  appreciate  the  accomplish- 
ments of  our  space  program.  Professor  Sac- 
co became  the  326th  person  to  venture  into 
space — such  a  small  number  considering  the 
human  population,  yet  quite  an  achievement 
for  the  human  race.  I  have  often  thought  of 
being  one  of  the  lucky  few  to  venture  into 
space,  and  through  Professor  Sacco,  we — 
especially  the  WPI  community — are  able  to 
experience  a  little  of  what  he  must  have  felt. 

Professor  Sacco  laments  that  he  may 
never  get  to  experience  space  travel  again. 
I  have  a  similar  feeling  about  my  WPI  expe- 
rience— never  being  able  to  return  to  its 
wonderful  student  life  again.  However,  with 
each  success  the  members  of  our  community 
achieve,  the  closer  I  feel  to  those  memories, 
and  the  prouder  (and  more  boastful)  I  be- 
come of  our  fine  institution. 

DAVID  J.  RUBINSTEIN  '82 
NEWTON  HIGHLANDS,  MASS. 

Joe  Gale  Made  a 
Lasting  Impression 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  especially  liked  the  article  about  Joe  Gale 
in  the  Winter  1996  issue  ("Hey,  Joe!").  I 
graduated  in  1958  in  mechanical  engineer- 
ing, and  I  remember  Joe  teaching  me  how  to 
weld.  Some  people  make  a  lasting  impres- 
sion, regardless  of  their  position. 

I  hope  there  is  a  way  to  recognize  Joe — 
perhaps  by  naming  the  shop  for  him,  as  the 
article  suggested.  If  I  remember  him  almost 
40  years  later,  than  I  am  sure  many  others 
do,  as  well.  In  my  opinion,  his  impact  is  as 
important  to  the  school  as  that  of  a  wealthy 
donor — if  not  more  so. 

howard  b.  pritz  '58 
Columbus,  Ohio 


Stealing  the  Goat 
Was  a  Serious  Act 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  enjoyed  the  Winter  WPI  Journal,  save  one 
article.  The  author  of  the  article  on  the 
Goat's  Head  rivalry  ("The  Case  of  the  Pur- 
loined Goat's  Head")  heralded  members  ol 
the  Class  of  1996  for  "reviving  the  tradition," 
but  I  am  not  so  sure  they  deserve  that  praise. 

While  the  author  was  careful  to  detail 
the  exact  steps  the  students  took  to  obtain 
the  goats,  no  mention  was  made  of  the  fact 
that  these  students  committed  some  pretty 
serious  acts  in  doing  so. 

I'm  dismayed  that  a  handful  of  students 
can  commit  such  acts  on  the  WPI  campus 
and  be  heralded  as  reviving  a  tradition,  espe- 
cially in  the  name  of  an  entire  class.  As  a 
member  of  the  Class  of  1996,  I'd  like  to 
point  out  that  these  students  had  no  right  to 
claim  their  actions  were  on  my  behalf,  or 
that  of  any  other  members  of  the  class.  To 
my  knowledge,  these  individuals  made  no 
attempt  to  involve  any  other  members  of  the 
class  in  their  scheme. 

While  I'm  glad  to  see  the  spirit  of  com- 
petition alive  and  well  on  the  WPI  campus, 
I  think  certain  members  of  the  senior  class 
could  have  gotten  the  new  rivalry  off  on  the 
right  foot  by  waiting  for  the  competition  to 
officially  begin  and  stealing  the  goat  by  the 
rules  of  the  game. 

AMY  L.  PLACK  '96 
WORCESTER,  MASS. 

It  Was  Alpha  Phi 
Omega 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  would  like  to  offer  a  clarification  to  the 
article  "The  Case  of  the  Purloined  Goat's 
Head"  (Winter  1996).  The  article  noted 
that  the  new  goat  was  used  to  help  raise 
money  when  Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity 
auctioned  off  a  chance  to  touch  the  bronze 
animal. 

Actually,  it  was  Alpha  Phi  Omega,  a 
philanthropic  organization,  which  held  the 
"Slave  Auction"  at  which  the  Goat  was  to  be 
auctioned.  Also,  it  was  the  Class  of  1997  that 
put  the  Goat  up  for  auction,  not  APO  itself. 

Unfortunately,  everyone  had  left  by  the 
time  the  Goat  went  up  for  auction;  it  didn't 
help  raise  any  money  for  charity.  But  it  was 
fun  anyway! 

Dave  Koelle  '97 
north  br\neord,  conn. 


VPI  JOURNAL 


31 


FINAL     WORD 


Big  Character  Has  Big  Plans 


BY  JOAN  KILLOUGH-MILLER 


Guns,  wedding  gowns  and  cold  beer 
might  seem  an  unlikely  combina- 
tion, but  they  coalesce  in  the  title 
of  the  debut  CD  by  Big  Character,  a 
Boston-area  rock  band  that  lists  six  WPI 
alumni  among  its  personnel.  Lead  vocalists 
Brian  Chu  and  Noel  Christopher,  both  1992 
graduates,  play  keyboards  and  guitar, 
respectively.  Their  management  team, 
Snarling  Frog,  is  a  collaboration  of  four 
WPI  grads:  Steve  Coscarella  '92,  Mike 
Cronin  '91,  George  Kalavantis 
'92andEdMinasian'93. 
The  title  of  the  CD 
comes  from  a  sign  the  band's 
drummer  spotted  in  front  of  a  General  store 
in  Maine.  "It  summed  up  the  past  year  for 

us,"  explains  Chu.  "One  band  member 
got  married,  and  Noel  was  held  at 
gunpoint  during  an  armed  rob- 
bery." And  the  beer?  "It's  just 
typical  cold  beer."  The  band's 
name  was  inspired  by  a  book  Chu 
read  about  student  protesters  in 
Tianamen  Square.  Some  of  the  stu- 
dents wrote  their 
words  of  protest 
on  posters  using 
small  characters. 
Others,  who  wanted  their  messages  to  stand 
out,  wrote  them  in  big  characters.  For  its 
logo,  the  band  chose  the  Chinese  character 
that  forms  part  of  the  word  for  revolution  or 
change. 

Engineers  by  day,  they  rock  out  at  night 
in  Boston  clubs  like  The  Attic,  Phoenix  and 
Mama  Kin,  the  Lansdowne  Street  club 
owned  by  members  of  Aerosmith.  Their  all- 
original  songs  can  be  heard  on  radio  stations 
WFNX  and  WBCN,  as  well  as  stations  at 
Emerson  College,  Boston  College  and 
Brandeis  University.  Worcester-area  fans 
got  a  chance  to  hear  them  live  in  April  when 
they  played  Sir  Morgan's  Cove  on  Green 
Street. 

The  band  also  hosts  an  annual  cruise 
around  Boston  Harbor.  Last  year's  cruise 
attracted  300  fans;  when  they  sail  again  on 
July  13,  Noel's  parents,  Jody  and  Assistant 
Professor  of  Mathematics  Peter  Christopher, 
are  bound  to  be  on  board.  "It's  every  father's 


dream,  isn't  it?"  remarks  Christopher  of  his 
son's  career  in  rock  and  roll.  "Actually,  I  hnd 
the  music  quite  listenable,  although  I  have  to 
pay  attention  to  make  out  the  words."  A 
devoted  fan,  he  attends  many  gigs.  "I  have 
the  opportunity  to  go  places  I  wouldn't  ordi- 
narily go."  Brian's  brother,  George  Chu  '95 
(who,  like  Brian,  was  an  All-American 
wrestler  at  WPI),  is  also  a  big  fan. 

Mama  Kin's  monthly  magazine 
described  Big  Character  as  "Grassroots 
sound  with  strong  emotional  lyrics,  as  well 
as  a  heavy  edge...."  The  five-member  band, 
which  also  includes  a  lead  guitarist,  a  bassist 
and  a  drummer,  describes  its  music  as  pro- 
gressive pop  alternative  rock,  "or  anything 
you  might  decide  to  call  it."  Their  influ- 
ences include  Nirvana,  Blue  Hole,  Midnight 
Oil  and  other  alternative  bands  that  evolved 
from  the  punk  music  style  of  the  1980s.  Chu 
and  Christopher  harmonize  on  lead  vocals 
and  write  lyrics,  which  are  mostly  personal 
and  introspective. 

"This  was  a  natural  for  me;  I've  been 
doing  music  all  my  life,"  says  Chu,  a  busi- 
ness analyst  for  Harvard  Community  Health 
Plan.  A  quiet,  determined  individual,  he  is 
the  founder  and  the  driving  force  behind 
Big  Character.  At  WPI,  Chu  played  key- 
boards at  campus  parties,  rousing  his  Phi 
Kappa  Theta  brothers  to  sing  along  on  Billy 
Joel's  "Piano  Man"  and  other  favorites. 
Christopher,  his  neighbor  in  the  fraternity 
house,  would  occasionally  join  in  on  guitar. 
The  more  gregarious  of  the  two,  Christo- 
pher was  a  classical  string  player  who  found 
he  couldn't  abide  life  without  music.  An 
award-winning  viola  player  at  Shrewsbury 
(Mass.)  High  School,  he  was  president  of 
the  orchestra  and  an  All-State,  All-District 
musician  who  sometimes  picked  up  a  cello 
or  bass  to  fill  in  for  absent  band  members. 

"When  I  got  to  college  I  thought  it  was 
time  to  put  that  away,"  he  says.  "I  figured  I 
should  either  get  serious  and  get  into  an 
orchestra,  or  get  out."  After  his  freshman 
year,  Christopher  says  he  was  going  crazy 
without  an  instrument,  so  he  "borrowed" 
Chu's  guitar  and  started  teaching  himself  to 
play.  "I  figured,  if  it's  a  string  instrument, 
how  hard  can  it  be?  Actually,  it  was  easier 


32 


SPRING  1996 


"If  only  one-tenth  of  one  percent  of  the  world  likes  your  music  and  you're  playing  it  really  well,  then  you're  a  success. "  — Brian  Chu  '92 


than  I  thought.  I  didn't  give  Brian's  guitar 
hack  for  a  year.  He  probably  never  missed  it." 

Christopher  eventually  bought  his  own 
guitar  and  started  taking  lessons.  After  grad- 
uation, he  was  hired  by  a  local  manufactur- 
ing company,  hut  soon  lost  his  job  as  part  of 
a  major  layoff.  He  currently  manages  the 
Boston  Billiards  nightclub  in  Worcester 
while  he  seeks  to  pick  up  his  engineering 
career  again.  Chu  continued  to  compose, 
sing  and  play — solo  and 
with  cover  bands — after 
receiving  his  diploma. 
He  made  enough  mon- 
ey to  equip  a  modest 
home  recording  studio 
and  cut  a  five-song 
demo  tape.  Listening  to 
the  tape  in  the  spring  of 
1993,  Christopher  was 
struck  by  his  friend's 
growing  maturity  as  a 
performer  and  song- 
writer. In  particular,  he 
was  touched  by  Chu's 
composition  "Think  of 
Me,"  a  song  the  band 
performs  often  these 
days.  "I  saw  Brian  mov- 
ing in  a  direction  where 
I  could  fit  in,"  he  says. 
When  Christopher  found  out  that  Chu  was 
advertising  for  musicians  in  the  Boston 
Phoenix,  he  forced  his  way  into  the  newlv 
forming  band. 

"I  harassed  him  so  bad,"  says  Christo- 
pher. "I  bothered  that  guy  for  weeks.  I 
wouldn't  take  no  for  an  answer.  I  played  for 
him.  I  sang  for  him.  I  tried  to  convince  him 
that  I  could  do  it,  and  that  he  needed  me." 
Chu  finally  agreed  to  accept  Christopher  on 
a  trial  basis. 

"Two  or  three  months  later,  we  had 
jelled  completely  as  a  band,"  Christopher 
says.  "It  was  clear  that  it  was  the  right  deci- 
sion for  both  of  us.  We  were  on  the  same 
page."  Their  four  fellow  alums,  who  had 
backed  Chu  in  his  solo  endeavors,  incorpo- 
rated as  Snarling  Frog  and  threw  themselves 
into  promoting  the  band.  With  a  demo  cas- 
sette and  a  lot  of  legwork,  they  waged  a  per- 


sistent campaign  for  club  dates  and  radio 
airtime. 

"We  put  it  together  like  a  project  plan," 
says  George  Kalavantis,  "and  split  up  the 
duties."  Mike  Cronin  audits  expenses, 
income  and  revenues  from  promotional  hats 
and  T-shirts.  Steve  Coscarella  works  on 
booking  gigs,  along  with  Ed  Minasian,  who 
also  writes  the  band's  newsletter,  Big  News. 
Coscarella  handles  the  hand's  e-mail 


From  left,  Noel  Christopher,  Brian  Chu, 
John  Amaral,  Seamus  Tierny,  Dan 
Goodwin,  aka  Big  Character. 

account  (bigchara@usal.com)  and  home- 
page on  the  World  Wide  Web 
(http://www  1  .usa  1  .com/~bigchara/).  Kala- 
vantis and  Coscarella  manage  the  database 
of  more  than  600  fans,  which  is  used  for 
mailings  and  marketing  analysis. 

Is  your  average  rock  band  this  methodi- 
cal, this  technologically  evolved?  "Most 
Boston  bands  last  six  months — a  year  if 
they're  lucky,"  says  Christopher.  "Many 
can't  even  get  together  $500  to  make  a 
demo  tape  to  take  around  to  clubs." 
Although  Web  pages  are  not  uncommon  for 
bands,  Christopher  claims  that  WPI  gradu- 
ates have  a  technological  edge.  "We  were 
logged  on  when  others  didn't  even  know  the 
Web  existed." 


"Having  a  management  team  is  a  luxu- 
ry," Christopher  continues.  "Most  bands 
have  to  call  around,  book  their  own  gigs. 
Snarling  Frog  does  the  business  end;  we  just 
have  to  make  suggestions  about  where  to 
play,  how  to  grow." 

The  band's  progress  is  carefully  moni- 
tored and  discussed  at  biweekly  meetings. 
Although  it  is  clearly  a  team  effort,  Christo- 
pher credits  Big  Character's  success  to 

Chu's  vision,  know- 
how  and  perseverance. 
"He's  a  machine,"  he 
says.  "The  other  night 
he  came  in  with  a  30- 
page  printout  on  what 
the  band  has  accom- 
plished so  far,  with 
charts,  graphs  and  a 
cost  analysis  of  where 
we've  played,  what  the 
pay  was,  and  where  we 
should  be  playing  the 
most  to  maximize  prof- 
its. I  guarantee  you,  no 
other  band  in  Boston 
g   has  somebodv  doing 
1   this.  That's  certainly 
\   our  WPI  education  at 
!  work!" 

Chu,  the  realist, 
says  the  band's  journey  has  been  intense,  but 
fun.  His  advice  to  aspiring  rock  stars  is  to 
persevere,  and  don't  get  offended  at  the 
inevitable  criticism.  "There's  lots  of  differ- 
ent tastes  out  there,"  he  says.  "If  only  one- 
tenth  of  one  percent  of  the  world  likes  your 
music  and  you're  playing  it  really  well,  then 
you're  a  success.  You  need  a  strong  belief  in 
yourself  and  your  music." 

Big  Character  is  at  work  on  a  second 
CD  and  would  like  to  expand  beyond  the 
Boston  area,  possibly  playing  colleges  on  the 
East  Coast.  Christopher  savs  he  would  give 
up  his  job  and  go  on  the  road  "in  a  heart- 
beat." Chu's  dream  is  a  record  deal  with  a 
major  label,  and  a  chance  to  work  full  time 
in  music  for  at  least  a  few  years.  "This  is  his 
thing,"  says  Christopher  of  Chu.  "No  mat- 
ter where  his  career  and  his  life  take  him,  he 
will  always  be  doing  music." 


Mh 


I 


<*»#♦/*" 


▼  inc  umin  ur  inc  i  lhii  ▼  iiuuh  11  uiihiuilu  iu  livlj  w   mil  iilai  lj  il«Ii« 

PI  JOURNAL 


; 


OCTOBER       1996 


.. -.^^~~^,.™»..~^lll|ll1|T|tirl|n1i««^^ 


Vol. I  Ml   XCIX,  NO.  3,  OCTOBER  IWfi 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


A  Miracle  at  Worcester  By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 

The  adoption  of  the  WPI  Plan  a  quarter  century  ago  changed  a  traditional 

college  into  a  model  of  innovation.  At  its  inception,  the  Plan  was 

the  product  of  the  imagination  and  tenacity  of  nine  remarkable  men. 

This  is  their  story. 
Page  4 

A  Gateway  to  Adulthood  By  Michael  II'.  Dorsey 

In  the  Plan's  early  days,  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  administrators  faced 

was  explaining  this  innovative  program.  Twenty-five  years  later,  it  still 

defies  simple  description.  We've  taken  a  shot  at  it,  anyw  n  . 

Page  16 

Ten  Lives  Changed 

By  Ray  Ben  '93,  Alan  Earles,  Bonnie  (ielbwasser,Joan  Killough-Miller, 

Roger  N.  Peny'Jr.  '45  and  Ruth  Trask 

It's  been  said  that  the  proof  is  in  the  pudding.  For  the  WPI  Plan,  the 

"pudding"  is  the  stories  of  the  lives  and  careers  of  the  more  than  12,000 

men  and  women  who  have  experienced  it.  Here  are  10  of  those  stories. 

Page  19 


DEPARTMENTS 

Advance  Word  Remembering  YATI's  Heroic  Age,  By  Michael  W.  Dorsey.  Page  2 

Letters  Thanks  for  the  Van  A  Update;  President  Chose  the  Right  Name.  Page  3 

Final  Word  2020  Foresight,  By  Rath  Trask.  Page  30 


On  the  cover:  As  a  member  of  the  faculty  Planning  Committee,  William  Grogan  helped 

shape  the  WPI  Plan;  as  the  first  dean  of  undergraduate  studies,  he  oversaw  its 

implementation  and  development  for  more  than  20  years.  Story  on  page  4.  Photo  by 

Patrick  O'Connor.  Opposite:  Grogan  talks  with  Sarah  Wilcox  '97  and  Christopher 

Lengner  '98,  members  of  a  student  team  that  recently  completed  a  project  in  Germany 

(advised  by  Grogan)  that  studied  the  drug  approval  process  in  that  country.  Photo  by 

Patrick  O'Connor.  Back  cover:  The  two  towers  of  Boynton  Hall  and  Washburn  Shops  have, 

since  WPI's  founding,  symbolized  the  merger  of  theory  and  application  that  forms  the  core 

of  the  university's  educational  philosophy — a  philosophy  embodied  today  in  the  WPI  Plan. 


Staff  of  the  WPIJoumaL  Editor,  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelbwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  ami  Ruth  Trask  • 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Samuel  Mencow  '37,  chairman,  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  vice  chairman.  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,  James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60, 

Joel  P.  Greene  '69,  William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  by 

the  Office  of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass..  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Yt.  Printed  in  the  I  .S.  V 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  net  essarily  re/leer  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  offit  ial  1  I  PI  policies.  1 1  e  welcome  letters  to  the  editor. .  Iddress  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 

WPI  Journal.  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  U  'orcester,  MA  01609-22X0  •  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  Fax:  (508)  831-5604  •  Electronic  Mid.  wpi-journal@wpi.edu  •  World  Wide  H  I  b 

http://www.-wpi.edu/News/JournaU  •  Postmaster:  Ifundeliverable,  please  tend  Form  1S79  to  th,  addn  a  above.  Do  nor  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  1996.  It  orcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


ADVANCE     WORD 


Remembering  WPI's  Heroic  Age 

"Writers  are  always  selling  somebody  out? 


The  cover  story  in  this  special  issue 
of  the  WPI  Journal  is  one  I  have 
been  thinking  about  writing  for 
some  time.  I'm  grateful  to  the  organizers  of 
this  year's  celebration  of  the  WPI  Plan's 
25th  anniversary  for  giving  me  the  impetus 
to  finally  tackle  it. 

The  story  of  how  the  Plan  came  to  be  is 
intriguing  for  anyone  who  was  not  on  cam- 
pus (and  even  many  who  were)  in  the  late 
1960s,  a  time  of  incredible  change  at  WPI. 
How  was  it  that  a  small,  traditional  engi- 
neering college  was  able  to  turn  itself 
around  and  become,  virtually  overnight,  one 
of  the  most  innovative  and  successful  insti- 
tutions of  technological  higher  education  in 
the  country?  What  combination  of  circum- 
stances and  human  capital  made  this  seem- 
ingly impossible  feat  possible? 

The  drive  to  answer  those  questions  for 
myself  was  behind  my  interest  in  writing 
this  story.  The  answers  proved  well  worth 
the  time  and  energy  the  article  entailed,  as 
did  the  opportunity  to  spend  some  time 
talking  to  the  remarkable  men  who  drafted 
the  Plan — the  seven  surviving  members  of 
the  now  famous  Planning  Committee  origi- 
nally appointed  in  1968  by  the  late  Harry  P. 
Storke,  WPI's  10th  president. 

The  title  of  the  article,  "A  Miracle  at 
Worcester,"  makes  reference  to  Catherine 
Drinker  Bowen's  1966  book,  Miracle  at 
Philadelphia,  which  recounts  the  events  of 
the  Constitutional  Convention  of  1787. 
While  it  may  seem  a  bit  audacious  to  com- 
pare the  Plan's  creation  to  one  of  the  most 
critical  events  in  U.S.  history,  the  analogy  is 
apt.  Like  the  writing  of  the  Constitution, 
the  drafting  of  the  Plan — certainly  the  most 
important  and  pivotal  episode  in  WPI's 
recent  history — was  accomplished  in  a  cli- 
mate of  turmoil  and  change  by  a  small  group 
of  dedicated,  passionate,  creative  individu- 
als— each  with  his  own  beliefs  and  biases. 
That  group,  the  faculty  Planning  Commit- 
tee, was  determined  to  craft  a  sound,  work- 
able framework  for  the  future,  one  that 
evolved  from  a  set  of  clearly  defined,  well- 
reasoned  principles  and  one  that  was 
designed  to  stand  the  test  of  time  and  the 


-Joan  Didion,  Slouching  Toward  Bethlehem,  1969 

inevitable  resistance  that  greets  any  new 
idea.  Indeed,  looking  back  from  a  distance 
of  a  quarter  century,  the  birth  of  the  Plan 
seems  nothing  short  of  miraculous. 

This  spring,  I  was  pleased  to  see  that  I 
am  not  the  only  writer  who  has  found  a  par- 
allel between  the  accomplishments  of  the 


dozens  of  individuals  who  worked  to  draft  the 
Plan  and  turn  it  into  a  living,  breathing  pro- 
gram. As  the  day  wound  down,  John  Zeug- 
ner,  professor  of  history,  rose  to  make  some 
concluding  remarks. 

"  'Another  of  our  friends  of  '76  is  gone, 
my  dear  Sir.... We  too  must  go,  and  that  ere 
long,'"  Zeugner  began,  quoting  Thomas  Jef- 
ferson's letter  to  John  Adams.  "  'I  believe  we 
are  under  half  a  dozen  at  present;  I  mean  the 
signers  of  the  Declaration.  Yourself,  Gerry, 
Carroll  and  myself  are  all  I  know  to  be  living. 
I  am  the  only  one  South  of  the  Potomac....'" 

Zeugner  told  of  the  correspondence 
between  Jefferson  and  Adams  that  began  in 
1813,  "three  years  after  Jefferson  left  the 
presidency,  having  won  it  from  Adams  in 
1 800.  So,  two  men  who  had  made  a  revolu- 
tion and  a  new  republic,  whose  political  cam- 
paigns against  one  another,  for  sheer  vicious- 


Shapers  of  two  Heroic  ages:  top,  the 
signers  of  the  Declaration  of  Indepen- 
dence; bottom,  from  left,  Planning  Com- 
mittee members  Bill  Grogan,  Charles 
Heventhal,  Steve  Weininger,  Jack  Boyd 
and  Roy  Seaberg. 

Planning  Committee  and  the  achievements 
of  America's  founding  fathers.  On  April  23, 
WPI  celebrated  the  birth  and  implementa- 
tion of  the  Plan  with  Commemoration  Day, 
an  event  that  brought  together  many  of  the 


ness  of  personal  attacks,  make  the  campaigns 
of  this  century  seem  genteel  by  comparison, 
began  again  a  secret  letter  correspondence 
that  blossomed  over  the  next  1 3  years  into  a 
remarkable  ex-presidential  colloquy. 

"The  exchange  of  letters  lingered  over 
characteristics  of  Indians,  Christ's  spirituali- 
ty, British  politics,  proper  ethics,  old  parti- 
san accusations,  grandchildren's  vanity,  and 
the  certain  knowledge  that  by  explaining 
themselves  to  each  other  they  were  partici- 


OCTOBER  1996 


pating  in  some  astounding  coda  to  the 
Founding  Generation.  The  letters  are 
darted  with  Greek  and  Latin  sentences 
and  French  exhortations.  Their  erudition 
stuns.  Their  thoughtfulness  amazes.  And 
throughout,  there  is  a  jocular  considera- 
tion of  imminent  death,  which  occurred 
magically  for  both  men  on  July  4,  1826, 
the  50th  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the 
Declaration  of  Independence. 

"In  his  last  letter  to  Adams,  in  late 
March  1826,  Jefferson  wrote  that  his 
grandson  Thomas  Randolph  would  like 
to  pay  Adams  a  visit.  'I  must  ask  for  him 
permission  to  pay  to  you  his  personal 
respects.  Like  other  young  people,  he 
wishes  to  be  able,  in  the  winter  nights  of 
old  age,  to  recount  to  those  around  what 
he  has  heard  and  learnt  of  the  Heroic  age 
preceding  his  birth,  and  which  of  the  Arg- 
onauts particularly  he  was  in  time  to  have 
seen.  It  was  the  lot  of  our  early  years  to 
witness  nothing  but  the  dull  monotony 
of  colonial  subservience,  and  of  our  riper 
ones  to  breast  the  labors  and  perils  of 
working  out  of  it.  Theirs  are  the  Halcyon 
calms  succeeding  the  storm  which  our 
Argosy  had  so  stoutly  weathered.  Gratify 
his  ambition  then  by  receiving  his  best 
bow,  and  my  solicitude  for  your  health  by 
enabling  him  to  bring  me  a  favorable 
account  of  it.  Mine  is  but  indifferent,  but 
not  so  my  friendship  and  respect  for  you.' 

"Twenty-five  years  out  from  the 
founding  of  the  WPI  Plan,  it  does  seem, 
in  the  poor  parallels  the  mind  constructs, 
that  the  Planning  Committee,  the  Imple- 
mentation Committee,  and  the  undoubt- 
ed captain  of  the  Plan  Argosy,  Bill  Gro- 
gan,  constitute,  in  fact,  a  kind  of  Heroic 
age,"  Zeugner  concluded.  "They  did 
indeed  triumph  over  a  dull  colonial  edu- 
cational subservience,  did  indeed  breast 
the  labors  and  perils  of  working  out  of  its 
monotony  and  stasis.  They  did  provide 
this  institution  more  than  a  few  Halcyon 
days  (indeed,  they  saved  and  grew  it). 
And  though  the  Institute's  health  at  the 
moment  may  be  indifferent,  to  use  Jeffer- 
son's terms,  not  so  its  deep  friendship 


and  respect  for  them." 

While  the  cover  story  focuses  on  the 
individuals  who  were  most  intimately 
associated  with  the  Plan's  creation — Pres- 
ident Storke,  President  George  Hazzard, 
Dean  Cookie  Price  and  the  members  of 
the  Planning  Committee — many,  many 
other  people  played  roles,  both  small 
and  large,  in  the  story  of  the  birth  of 
the  Plan.  They  include  the  many  faculty 
members  who  shared  the  Planning  Com- 
mittee's passion  about  education  and  its 
conviction  that  WPI  could,  and  should,  be 
a  better  and  more  innovative  institution. 
They  offered  their  ideas,  their  opinions, 
their  time  and  their  unwavering  support 
as  the  process  of  shaping  the  Plan  moved 
forward.  Many  went  on  to  become  offi- 
cers and  foot  soldiers  in  the  more  than 
decade-long  campaign  known  as  Imple- 
mentation, the  monumental  job  of  turn- 
ing the  educational  program  approved 
by  the  faculty  in  1970  into  a  workable 
system.  You  will  read  more  about  that 
process  in  the  second  half  of  the  cover 
story,  to  be  published  in  early  1997. 

In  addition,  many  faculty  members, 
students,  administrators,  trustees  and 
alumni  helped  shape  the  Plan  by  taking 
part  in  two  Planning  Days  in  1968  and 
1969  and  by  serving  on  a  multitude  of 
subcommittees  that  helped  the  Planning 
Committee  flesh  out  the  details  of  the 
Plan.  Their  efforts  on  behalf  of  the  uni- 
versity were  invaluable,  and  they  had  the 
satisfaction  of  contributing  to  one  of  the 
most  important  community  efforts  in 
WPI's  history. 

The  bottom  line  of  all  this  is  that  no 
matter  how  careful  a  job  of  research  a 
writer  might  do,  or  how  diligent  one 
might  be  about  giving  credit  where  it  is 
deserved,  there  will  always  be  those 
unwittingly  and  unintentionally  left  out 
of  the  story.  To  those  many  individuals,  I 
apologize.  I  invite  them  to  tell  their  sto- 
ries and  relate  their  memories  of  the 
Plan's  birth  on  the  Letters  pages  of 
future  issues  of  the  Journal. 

MICHAEL  W.  DORSEV 


LETTERS 


Thanks  for  the 
Van  A  Update 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  thank  you  for  updating  alumni  on  one  of  the 
most  beloved  men:  John  van  Alstyne  ("The 
Wizard  of  Asheville,"  Spring  1996).  Dean  van 
Alstyne  is  one  of  the  reasons  I  stayed  and  suc- 
ceeded at  WPI.  He  is  a  man  of  such  wisdom 
and  kindness.  From  my  first  day  of  classes  at 
WPI  through  the  dreaded  Competency  Exam, 
Van  A  inspired  me  to  succeed.  He  gave  me 
confidence  and  faith  in  my  abilities.  It  warms 
my  heart  to  know  that  he  is  still  giving  his 
magic  to  students  young  and  old. 

Ki.MBi  ri.v  Berg  kitchens  '83 
RALEIGI  I,  x.c. 

President  Chose  the 
Right  Name 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  am  responding  to  the  letter  in  the  Spring 
1996  WPI Journal  by  Erling  Lagerholm, 
which  argued  the  need  for  a  new  name  for 
the  school.  While  I  find  it  hard  to  accept  the 
need  for  a  new  name,  times  do  change  and 
we  must  go  forward.  In  doing  so  we  must 
never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  the  names 
WPI,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  and, 
informally,  Worcester  Tech  have  been  well- 
known  and  highly  respected  in  the  commu- 
nity and  the  business  world. 

Though  progress  is  unavoidable,  a  drastic- 
change  such  as  that  suggested  by  Mr.  Lager- 
holm would  be  unwise  and  also  a  great  loss  to 
those  of  us  wrho  love  WPI.  Fortunately,  Pres- 
ident Parrish  and  his  cabinet  chose  the  right 
name,  WPI.  I  support  their  decision  100  per- 
cent, and  hope  we  can  still  informally  be 
known  as  "Worcester  Tech."  I  am  sure  it  will 
continue  to  garner  die  same  respect  it  has 
always  inspired  in  the  past.  Remember,  our 
alma  mater  begins,  "Dear  Worcester  Tech, 
our  Worcester  Tech."  May  it  always  be  so. 

George  iulis  '54 
Cranston,  r.i. 

EDITOR'S  NOTE:  Earlier  this  summer,  WPI 
President  Edward  Parrish  and  his  cabinet,  a 
group  of  senior  administrators,  decided  that  the 

university  should  emphasize  its  initials,  WPI, 
instead  of  its  full  legal  name  in  its  publications, 
on  its  stationery  and  business  cards,  and  in  other 
forms  of  communication  directed  to  the  world 
beyond  the  campus.  For  a  report  on  this  decision, 
the  reader  is  directed  to  the  Summer  1996  issue 
of  the  WPI  Wire. 


WPI  Journal 


t  was  1966,  a  time  of  turmoil  and  social  upheaval.  In  the  South,  the  struggle  for  racial 
equality  raged.  Across  the  Pacific  in  Soudieast  Asia,  a  bloody  war  dragged  on,  while 
back  home  demonstrators  staged  ever  larger  protest  rallies,  boycotts  and  moratori- 
ums. Around  the  nation,  a  new  generation  was  awakening  to  the  realities  of  poverty, 
sexual  inequality  and  environmental  degradation.  It  was  an  age  of  transition,  experimentation 
and  excitement — a  time  when  anything  might  be  possible. 

For  Professor  William  Grogan  '46,  all  of  that  seemed  a  million  miles  away.  WPI,  where 
he  had  earned  his  bachelor's  and  master's  degrees  in  electrical  engineering  (the  former  under 
the  U.S.  Navy's  wartime  V-12  officer  training  program)  and  to  which  he  had  devoted  the  last 
two  decades  of  his  life,  was  stuck  in  neutral.  While  change  swirled  all  around  it,  the  Institute 
on  Boynton  Hill  seemed  firmly  anchored  to  the  past.  Grogan  had  had  enough.  It  was  time  to 
get  out — to  jump  ship  while  the  ship  was  still  afloat.  "I  was  a  month  away  from  leaving  WPI 
and  taking  a  post  with  the  Navy  Department  in  Washington,"  he  says.  "From  my  perspective, 
WPI  was  dead  in  the  water.  There  was  simply  no  reason  to  stick  around." 

Fortunately  for  Grogan  and  for  WPI,  his  dissatisfaction  was  shared  by  a  fellow  military 
officer,  retired  Army  Lieut.  General  Harry  P.  Storke.  A  1926  West  Point  graduate,  a  veteran 
of  World  War  II  and  the  Korean  Wir,  and  the  recently  retired  commander  of  NATO's  land 
forces  in  southern  Europe,  Storke  had  become  WPI's  10th  president  in  1962.  He  quickly 
sensed  the  stagnation  that  had  taken  hold  of  the  Institute  and  decided — for  WPI's  own  good, 
and  perhaps  for  its  very  survival — he  had  to  try  to  shake  it  out  of  its  decades-long  slumber. 

It  would  take  nearly  10  years  to  bring  that  goal  to  fruition.  In  that  time,  "Worcester 
Tech"  would  be  turned  inside  out,  becoming  an  educational  institution  unlike  any  other  in  the 
country.  The  roles  of  students  and  faculty  members  would  completely  change,  as  a  traditional, 
rigid  engineering  school  became  a  model  ot  flexibility  and  innovation,  one  that  still  serves  as  a 
beacon  to  other  educators. 


The  Story  of  the  WPI  Plan,   Part  1.    By  Michael  W.   Dorsey 


More  than  25  years  ago,    something   quite   remarkable 
happened  on   boynton   hlll.    with  a   single   vote   of   the 
faculty,    wpi    became  a  completely   different   kind  of 
institution.    The   creation   of   the   WPI    Plan  was   the 
single  most   important   event   in  wpi's   recent   history. 
This    is   the   story  of  how,    in   the   words   of   the   Plan's 
founders,    a  good  college   became   an   excellent   one. 


Before  it  was  over,  Harry  Storke  would  retire  and  WPI  would  inaugurate  its  1 1th 
president.  Many  longtime  faculty  members  would  depart — disgruntled  or  disheartened 
over  what  their  beloved  school  had  become.  But  Bill  Grogan  would  remain.  Tapped  by 
Storke  to  begin  the  process  of  loosening  up  the  curriculum,  he  would  find  a  new  reason  to 
believe  in  his  alma  mater.  He  would  go  on  to  help  create  the  spark  that  ignited  a  powder  keg 
of  change.  And  having  turned  WPI  upside  down,  he  would  spend  the  better  part  of  his  acade- 
mic career  harnessing  and  channeling  the  force  of  that  blast  into  a  workable  and  effective 
educational  program — a  program  that  would  become  known  as  the  WPI  Plan. 

"What  we've  got  here  is  a  failure  to  communicate" 

— From  Cool  Hand  Luke,  1967 


0  s  one  looks  back  from  the  perspective  of  the  1990s,  it  is  hard  to  imagine  how  different 
a  place  WPI  was  in  the  1960s.  For  students,  the  college  bore  an  uncomfortably  close 
resemblance  to  the  high  schools  they  thought  they  had  left  behind.  WPI  seemed 
reluctant  to  believe  that  students  could  make  decisions  for  themselves,  so  it  gave  them 
few  to  make.  In  a  typical  four-year  curriculum,  most  undergraduates  had  only  two  electives. 
Class  attendance  was  mandatory.  Saturday  mornings  were  spent  in  classes,  or  in  drills  for 
ROTC,  which  was  required  of  all  students.  Women  guests  (there  were  not  yet  female  stu- 
dents at  WPI)  were  prohibited  from  residence  hall  rooms  without  supervision. 

For  the  faculty,  WPI  was  a  warm  and  supportive  community,  a  small  college  where  every- 
one knew  everyone  else  and  everyone's  problems.  It  was  a  place  where  the  faculty  harbored 
intense  feelings  of  loyalty  and  concern  for  the  school  where  many  had  earned  their  academic 
degrees.  And  though  there  was  no  tenure  system,  there  was  an  unspoken  guarantee  of  job 
security. 


■-■■  siilijuijiui 
j'JyJah 


In  the  few  short  years  that  marked 

of  the  '70s,  WPI  urWerwent  an  ava- 

"he  creation  of  the  \ 

of  the  Plan  were  sown  by 
ent  Harry  Storke  (above); 

le  program  that  grew 
as  nurtured  for  two 
*  Bill  Grogan 


i J  Dili   ihiJU 


-. 


r 


SHI PMAN 


Comments   he  made 
at  a   faculty  meet- 
ing  in  1968   led 
President   Storke 
to  create  the 
faculty   Planning 
Committee  and 
appoint   him  chair. 


But  WPI  was  also  a  place  where  the  power 
over  virtually  everything — including  the  curricu- 
lum— resided  in  the  hands  of  a  very  few  senior 
administrators  and  department  heads.  There  was 
no  faculty  governance  system.  The  agenda  for  the 
(quite  rare)  faculty  meetings  was  drawn  up  by  the 
Executive  Committee  of  the  faculty — the  heads  of 
the  academic  departments — and  con- 
sisted largely  of  announcements  of 
decisions  that  had  already  been  made 
behind  closed  doors. 

It  was  within  this  structure  that 
President  Storke  set  out  to  create 
change.  In  late  1963,  he  outlined  a 
10-year  plan  for  WPI  that  encom- 
passed major  campus  improvements 
(including  a  new  field  house  and  a 
modern  library)  that  he  and  the 
trustees  believed  were  needed  to  move 
the  college  forward.  The  plan  became 
the  basis  for  the  Centennial  Fund,  a 
$15  million  capital  campaign  that  cul- 
minated in  1965,  WPI's  centennial 
year.  "The  next  two  years  or  three 
years  will  help  shape  Tech's  destiny  for 
many  years,"  he  said  in  a  Nov.  2,  1963, 
address  to  alumni.  "They  will  provide 
each  of  us  an  opportunity  to  partici- 
pate in  a  program  that  will  give  to  our 
heirs  the  kind  of  institution  we  inher- 
ited from  our  predecessors  and  to  the  generations 
of  future  students  the  kind  of  education  needed  for 
tomorrow's  world." 

He  called  on  the  department  heads  to  help 
define  that  new  kind  of  education,  but  they  seemed 
resistant.  That  December,  Storke  and  Dean 
Lawrence  "Cookie"  Price  asked  the  department 
heads  to  join  them  for  a  retreat  at  a  hotel  in  nearby 
Sturbridge  to  help  draft  a  long-range  educational 
plan  to  accompany  the  facilities  plan  Storke  had 


already  developed.  By  one  report,  Storke  became 
so  frustrated  by  the  department  heads'  lack  of  ideas 
that,  early  one  morning,  he  summoned  them  from 
their  rooms  and  dismissed  them  without  breakfast. 

"There  are  going  to  be  times  when  we 
can't  wait  for  somebody.  Now,  you're 
either  on  the  bus  or  off  the  bus." 

— Ken  Kesey,  1 968  (quoted  by  Tom  Wolfe  in  The 
Electric  Kool-Aid  Acid  Test) 

0espite  the  reluctance  of  department  heads 
to  alter  what  they  believed  to  be  a  per- 
fectly workable  academic  program,  Storke 
knew  change  was  inevitable.  He  could  not 
help  but  be  aware  that  students  were  unhappy. 
Increasingly,  they  were  voicing  their  displeasure 
in  the  pages  of  Tech  News.  Required  courses,  Sat- 
urday classes,  mandatory  ROTC,  the  lack  of  pari- 
etal hours  in  the  dorms — all  came  under  fire  as 
students  began  to  demand  more  freedom  and 
more  responsibility. 

And  among  the  faculty  were  a  growing  cadre 
of  younger  instructors  (many  with  degrees  from 
other  institutions)  who  were  eager  to  break  out 
of  the  mold.  In  their  own  classes,  they  began  to 
experiment.  They  included  William  Shipman,  a 
professor  of  chemical  engineering  who  came  to 
WPI  in  1958.  Widely  recognized  for  his  award- 
winning,  corporate-sponsored  work  on  combus- 
tion and  jet  propulsion,  he  was  among  a  small 
group  of  faculty  then  with  an  active  research  pro- 
gram. "WPI  had  many  bright  and  eager  students 
who  were  looking  for  something  new  and  exciting 
to  do,"  Shipman  says.  "I  suggested  what  those 
'somethings'  might  be,  and  they  did  the  rest." 
Shipman  threw  away  the  standard  "cook- 
book" approach  to  teaching  lab  courses.  Instead, 
he  gave  students  open-ended  problems  to  solve. 
"Rather  than  giving  them  an  experiment  on  distil- 


OCTOBKR  1996 


mmbuuMwn 


lation,  for  example,  I  asked  them  to  find  a  way  to 
extract  iodine  from  kelp,"  lie  says.  "If  distillation 
was  required,  they  would  learn  about  distillation. 
1  low  they  accomplished  the  assignment  was  up  to 
them.  The  enthusiasm  in  those  labs  was  exciting." 

In  mechanical  engineering.  Jack  Boyd,  who 
arrived  in  1966,  was  acutely  aware  of  the  failing 
of  his  own  undergraduate  education  at  Ohio 
State,  which  had  filled  him  full  of  facts  and  equa- 
tions but  left  him  feeling  uncertain  about  how  to 
use  them.  He  structured  his  courses  at  WPI 
around  projects  that  helped  students  look  beyond 
the  equations  to  develop  "functional  literacy." 

Over  in  electrical  engineering,  Grogan,  who 
kept  in  touch  with  the  corporate  world  by  con- 
sulting for  Genera]  Electric,  Bell  Labs  and  the 
Navy's  Missile  Systems  Division,  had  been  incor- 
porating project  work  in  his  course  in  engineering 
economics.  To  add  an  element  of  realism  to  the 
course,  he  had  students  take  on  the  role  of  profes- 
sional consultants,  completing  small  projects 
sponsored  by  corporations. 

Grogan  was  one  of  a  group  of  young  faculty 
in  electrical  engineering  who,  starting  in  the  late 
1950s,  met  regularly — often  on  Friday  afternoons 
in  nearby  Bigelow's  Tavern — to  talk  about  educa- 
tion and  their  (at  least  for  WPI)  radical  notions 
about  teaching  and  learning.  In  time,  this  group, 
which  eventually  included  Owen  Kennedy  '44, 
Romeo  Moruzzi,  Harit  Majmudar,  Wilhelm 
Eggimann,  Donald  Eteson  '48  and  George  Stan- 
nard  '43,  welcomed  fellow  travelers  from  other 
departments,  including  Boyd,  Charles  Heventhal, 
a  professor  of  English  who  arrived  in  1963,  and 
Stephen  Weininger,  a  chemistry  professor  who 
came  on  board  in  1965. 

Grogan  also  chaired  a  study  committee  in  the 
Electrical  Engineering  Department  that  in  the 
spring  of  1966  presented  a  revised  and  somewhat 
liberated  electrical  engineering  curriculum  to  the 
faculty  Executive  Committee.  The  report,  which 
was  approved,  generated  some  discussion  at  a  fac- 
ulty meeting,  something  that  had  never  happened 
before. 

Despite  this  step  forward,  Grogan  saw  little 
prospect  for  campuswide  change.  But  later  that 
year  Storke  decided  to  appoint  a  faculty-based 
Curriculum  Study  Committee  to  accomplish  what 
the  department  heads  refused  to  do.  Catching 
Grogan  on  the  verge  of  resigning,  Storke  asked 
him  to  chair  it. 

"You're  either  part  of  the  solution  or  part 
of  the  problem. " 

— Elbridge  Cleaver,  1968 

Btorke  asked  each  department  head  to  sub- 
mit a  list  of  three  department  faculty, 
from  which  he  would  choose  one  member 
to  be  on  the  new  committee.  From  the 
lists  he  received,  Storke  selected  Leighton  Well- 


man,  a  36-year  veteran  of  the  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering Department,  Imre  Zwiebel,  a  recent  addi- 
tion to  the  Chemical  Engineering  Department, 
Jerald  Weiss,  professor  of  physics,  William  Ilobey, 
a  young  professor  of  chemistry,  Alan  King,  soccer 
coach  and  professor  of  physical  education,  James 
Hensel,  a  professor  of  English,  Donald  Johnson,  a 
professor  of  history  and  modern  languages  who 
had  been  at  WPI  for  20  years,  Robert  Fitzgerald 
'53,  a  new  professor  of  civil  engineering,  Nicholas 
Onorato,  professor  of  economics,  and  John  van 
Alstyne,  who'd  been  teaching  mathe- 
matics at  WPI  since  1961. 

As  chair,  Grogan  made  regular 
reports  to  the  department  heads  on 
the  committee's  ideas.  "It  was  like 
running  into  a  room  hill  of  feathers," 
he  says.  "They  never  got  upset  about 
our  ideas,  but  they  gave  us  no 
encouragement,  either."  The  follow- 
ing February,  the  committee  present- 
ed its  initial  recommendations  to  the 
Executive  Committee,  which  reluc- 
tantly brought  them  to  the  faculty. 

The  committee  wanted  to 
revamp  the  freshman  and  sophomore 
curriculum  by  offering  (unheard  of) 
elective  courses  in  the  freshman  year, 
making  mathematics  a  degree  pro- 
gram and  introducing  an  optional 
minor  program  in  English,  history, 
and  humanities  and  technology.  They 
also  recommended  the  establishment 
of  a  new  Computer  Science  Depart- 
ment. The  proposals  were  ultimately 
approved,  but  not  before  a  hard- 
fought  battle  over  whether  to  make 
freshman  graphics  optional. 

"Six  hours  of  drawing  in  India  ink 
was  required  of  every  single  student, 
no  matter  what  his  major,"  Grogan 
says.  "The  Mechanical  Engineering 
Department,  which  employed  a  large 
cadre  of  drawing  instructors  and 
which  clung  to  the  belief  that  drawing 
was  a  basic  requirement  of  engineer- 
ing education,  bitterly  opposed  eliminating  this 
requirement.  In  the  end,  the  recommendation 
passed  by  a  margin  of  only  four  votes.  After  that 
vote,  the  olive  was  out  of  the  neck  of  the  bottle.  If 
we  could  make  that  seemingly  minor  change  in 
programming  (but  one  with  enormous  philosophi- 
cal implications),  anything  seemed  possible.  The 
stage  was  set  for  even  greater  change." 

For  one  faculty  member,  the  vote  marked  the 
end  of  a  career.  Leighton  Wellman,  a  member  of 
the  "old  guard"  and  the  director  of  the  drawing 
program,  resigned  from  the  committee.  Not  long 
after,  in  a  move  that  echoed  the  departure  of 
George  Alden  and  Milton  Higgins  from  WPI  80 
years  earlier  over  the  creation  of  the  "too  scien- 


SHOULD  DEVELOP 
A  "FUNCTIONAL 
LITERACY"  MOVED 
HIM  TO  FAVOR  A 
PROJECT-BASED 
PROGRAM. 


WPI  Journal 


MORUZZI 


Having  helped 
launch   the 

FACULTY 

governance 

system,    he  was 

elected  to 

the   Planning 

Committee   in 

one   of  the 

faculty' s 

first  major 

VOTES . 


WPI's  first  two  women 

undergraduates, 

Jayne  Rossetti,  left, 

and  Lesley  Small. 


tific"  electrical  engineering  program  (see  "An 
Electric  Century,"  WPI Journal,  Spring  1996), 
he  resigned  from  the  Institute. 

"The  order  is  /Rapidly  fadin^  /And  the 
first  one  now  /Will  later  be  last  /For  the 
times  they  are  a-changin  \  " 

— Bob  Dylan,  1 963 

0  s  the  end  of  the  decade  neared,  change 
was  in  the  air  at  WPI.  In  October  1967, 
the  trustees  approved  parietal  hours  in 
the  residence  halls  for  upperclassmen.  In 
short  order,  mandator}'  R.OTC  and  Saturday 
classes  were  studied,  debated  and  elimi- 
nated, as  students  became  increasingly 
vocal  about  their  unhappiness  and  as  the 
war  in  Vietnam  made  mandator}'  military 
service  an  especially  sore  point.  At  their 
meeting  in  February  1968,  the  trustees 
decided  to  admit  women  undergraduates 
for  the  first  time  in  WPI's  history.  And  in 
April  1968,  the  faculty  elected  its  first 
committee  to  study  the  issue  of  tenure. 
This  committee  of  Young  Turks — Heven- 
thal,  Moruzzi,  Shipman,  Weininger  and, 
as  chairman,  mechanical  engineering  Pro- 
fessor Charles  Feldman — developed  a 
tenure  and  promotion  system  that  the  fac- 
ulty and  trustees  approved  that  spring. 

But  as  a  new  decade  loomed,  the  undergradu- 
ate program  was  still  in  great  need  of  improve- 
ment. WPI  was  finding  it  increasingly  difficult  to 
make  a  convincing  argument  that  its  quality  was 
high  enough  to  justify  the  difference  between  its 
tuition  and  the  much  lower  prices  charged  by 
state  universities,  a  fact  that  became  clear  to  Bill 
Shipman  one  day  that  spring. 


At  the  last  faculty  meeting  of  1967-68,  Storke 
asked  for  comments  on  WPI's  long-range  plan- 
ning efforts.  Shipman,  van  Alstyne,  Zwiebel  and 
William  Roadstrum,  professor  of  electrical  engi- 
neering, rose  to  speak.  Shipman's  comments  were 
particularly  striking.  "I  was  teaching  a  Sunday 
school  class  at  the  time,"  he  says.  "The  mother  of 
one  of  my  students  asked  me  if  I  could  talk  to 
him  about  which  colleges  he  might  consider.  I 
thought  to  myself,  'Here  I  am  at  Worcester  Tech, 
and  I  can't  think  of  a  reason  why  I  would  want  to 
go  here.  What  does  this  school  have  to  offer  that 
I  couldn't  get  somewhere  else  for  less  money?" 

That  June,  Storke  announced  that  he  would 
retire  the  following  spring.  Perhaps  hoping  to 
finally  realize  his  goal  of  reforming  the  curricu- 
lum before  he  departed,  he  began  searching  for 
the  best  way  to  get  the  job  done,  even  if  it  meant 
going  around  the  recalcitrant  department  heads. 

That  fall,  Shipman  wrote  a  memo  to  the 
Executive  Committee  suggesting,  once  again,  that 
WPI  needed  to  change  to  justify  the  tuition  it 
charged  students.  Sometime  after  that,  Storke  sat 
down  to  lunch  with  Shipman  in  the  Morgan  Hall 
cafeteria  and  asked  him  if  he  had  any  thoughts  on 
just  what  WPI  could  do.  Shipman  reminded  the 
president  about  an  article  he'd  written  for  the 
Spring  1966  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal,  in  which 
he'd  offered  a  critical  appraisal  of  the  undergrad- 
uate program  and  some  options  for  its  future. 

"It  seems  that  the  ultimate  solution. ..will  be 
found  in  a  change  from  the  set  undergraduate  cur- 
ricula of  former  times  to  a  program  designed  to 
teach  the  student  to  learn  rather  than  to  equip  him 
to  fill  a  specific  job  that  may  not  exist  five  years 
after  his  graduation,"  the  article  said,  in  part. 

Not  long  after  that  lunchtime  discussion, 


Storke  telephoned  Shipman's  office.  "I'm  here," 
Storke  said  when  Shipman  answered,  "and  I  want 
to  be  there.  Are  you  going  to  be  there?"  He 
walked  over  and  told  Shipman  he  had  decided  to 
appoint  a  faculty  planning  committee  and  he 
wanted  Shipman  to  serve  on  it.  He  said  he  want- 
ed Roadstrum  to  serve,  as  well,  but  that  Shipman 
was  free  to  choose  the  rest  of  the  members. 


October  1996 


m^mwtwmtwMj 


"I  chose  people  I  knew  and  people  I  thought 
were  already  thinking  about  education,"  Shipman 
says.  In  the  end,  invitations  went  out  to  van 
Alstyne,  then  acting  head  of  the  .Mathematics 
I  )epartment,  Heventhal,  Boyd  and  Weininger, 
which  gave  the  committee  representation  from 
the  humanities,  the  sciences,  mathematics  and 
three  major  engineering  disciplines.  Roy  Seaberg 
'56,  who  had  become  assistant  secretary  of  the 
\\  PI  Alumni  Association  in  1%2,  would  later 
join  the  group  as  executive  secretary. 

In  his  formal  charge  to  the  committee,  Storke 
asked  it  to  prepare  "a  comprehensive  proposal  of 
feasible  educational  directions  the  Institute  should 
take."  He  asked  for  the  committees  first  report  by 
March  1,  1969.  Learning  of  the  committee,  Tech 
News  editor  Joel  Greene  '69  called  it  "one  more 
step  in  the  quiet  revolution  now  taking  place  with- 
in the  traditional  faculty-administration  structure." 
Over  the  course  of  the  following  two  years,  the 
revolution  was  destined  to  get  much  louder. 

"We  must  dare  to  think  ^unthinkable'' 
thoughts.  We  must  learn  to  explore  all 
the  options  and  possibilities  that  confront 
its  in  a  complex  and  changing  world. 
We  must  learn  to  welcome  and  not  to 
fear  the  voices  of  dissent.  We  must  dare 
to  think  about  ''unthinkable  things, ' 
because  when  things  become  unthink- 
able, thinking  stops  and  action  becomes 
mindless. " 
—James  W.  Fulbright,  1964 

Dhe  President's  Planning  Committee  sat 
down  to  its  first  meeting  that  November 
in  a  conference  room  in  Goddard  Hall; 
its  home  base  would  later  be  changed  to 
a  Stratton  Hall  conference  room,  where  a  coffee 
pot  would  be  kept  perking  for  much  of  the  next 
two  years  as  the  committee  members — all  but 
Shipman  working  without  release  time — put  in 
long  hours  completing  the  committee's  demand- 
ing work  in  addition  to  their  own  normal  teach- 
ing and  administrative  loads.  As  its  first  item  of 
business,  the  committee  elected  Shipman  chair- 
man. The  vote  was  five  to  one,  with  only  Ship- 
man  (who  says  he  didn't  see  the  need  for  a  chair- 
man) voting  against  himself.  It  would  be  the  only 
vote  the  committee  would  ever  take,  as  it  com- 
pleted the  rest  of  its  business  by  consensus.  They 
then  turned  to  matters  of  procedure — just  how 
would  they  approach  the  rather  open-ended 
assignment  Storke  had  handed  them? 

A  breakthrough  occurred  when  it  was  sug- 
gested that  the  committee  be  completely  open  to 
any  and  all  ideas,  no  matter  how  seemingly  im- 
practical or  off-the-wall.  If  a  committee  member 
had  something  he  thought  should  be  considered, 
it  would  be  discussed  and  evaluated  from  all  sides. 


This  would  become  a  guiding  principle.  The) 
also  decided  early  on  that  their  first  step  should 
be  to  consider  every  seemingly  practical  future 
direction  for  WPI  and  to  treat  each  one  positive- 
ly,  i  procedure  that  would  help  the  Institute  focus 
in  on  the  direction  it  ultimately  wanted  to  take. 
In  short  order  it  became  apparent  that  the  com- 
mittee was  thinking  about  a  more  fundamental 
evaluation  of  \\  Pi's  mission  than  Storke  had  had 
in  mind. 

Soon  after  the  first  meeting,  the  committee 
met  with  the  president  to  talk  about  its  desire  to 
go  beyond  his  charge.  Weininger  remembers  that 
Shipman  explained  the  committee's  concern  to 
Storke  and  asked  for  his  thoughts.  "\1\  memorj 
may  be  colored  by  romantic  recollections,"  he 
sa\s,  "but  I  recall  that  he  took  no  more  than  a 
minute  to  think  about  it  ami  to  say,  'Just  go  ahead 
and  take  this  wherever  it  leads  you.'  It  was  exhil- 
arating— and  a  little  scary.  In  a  sense,  he'd  placed 
the  future  of  the  college  in 
our  hands.  It  tor  nothing 
more  than  that  decision, 
Storke  deserves  a  place  of 
honor  in  the  history  of 
WPI." 

"We  often  think  of  the 
military  officer  as  wanting  to 
be  in  control,"  Heventhal 
says.  "But  the  best  military 
officers  know  that  they  have 
to  have  different  options  in 
trout  ot  them  and  that  things 
are  going  to  change.  I  think 
Storke  sensed  that  that  was 
what  WPI  needed." 

The  process  of  exploring 
those  options  encouraged 
each  member  of  the  commit- 
tee to  present  and  defend  his 
ow  n  views  on  the  ideal 
approach  to  education.  Van 
Alstyne  hoped  for  a  program 
with  tar  more  flexibility  than 
the  traditional  system. 
Heventhal  wanted  to  make  the  humanities  a  tar 
more  vital — and  integrated — part  of  the  under- 
graduate experience.  Boyd,  interested  in  a  system 
that  encouraged  students  to  learn  on  their  own, 
wanted  to  broaden  the  use  of  projects  in  the  acad 
emic  program,  a  concept  that  had  been  champi- 
oned a  year  earlier  by  Charles  Feldman  in  an  arti 
cle  he  wrote  for  the  Journal  entitled  "Wither 
Worcester  Tech?" 

"One  of  the  things  that  attracted  me  to 
WPI  was  that  it  had  a  long  history  of  hands-on 
stuff,"  Boyd  says.  "But  that  had  largely  disap- 
peared by  the  1960s.  Just  after  I  arrived,  some 
students  broke  into  the  machine  shop — to  use 
the  machines!  The  Mechanical  Engineering 
Department  responded  by  changing  the  locks." 


he   championed 
the   elevation   of 
the   humanities 
in  wpi 's   cur- 
riculum,   and 
later  helped 
create   the 
Sufficiency. 


WPI  Journal 


I 


Shipman's  interest  was  in  inverting  the  tradi- 
tional American  model  of  higher  education.  "We 
were  doing  things  backwards,"  he  says.  "We'd 
have  a  lecture  for  100  students.  Then  we'd  have  a 
recitation  where  students  would  do  problems 
based  on  what  they  were  supposed  to  have 
learned  in  the  lecture.  Finally,  they  would  do  a 
lab  experiment  to  see  that  what  they  learned  in 
the  lecture  and  recitation  was  pretty  close  to 
being  right.  But  that's  not  how  people  learn.  We 
learn  by  making  observations,  correlating  facts, 
and  arriving  at  generalizations.  That's  how  stu- 
dents have  to  operate  when  they  go  to  work,  but 
that's  not  what  we  were  teaching  them  to  do." 

Shipman  suggested  a  better  model  might  be 
the  traditional  tutorial  system  used  at  Cambridge 
and  Oxford  universities  in  England.  Weininger, 
who  had  taught  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Durham  in  north- 
ern England,  had  also  come 
to  admire  the  British  system. 
The  hallmark  of  the  system 
is  a  one-on-one  relationship 
between  the  student  and  a 
faculty  tutor — essentially  a 
guide  who  helps  the  student 
in  his  or  her  educational 
journey.  In  their  first  few 
years,  students  are  free  to 
explore  ideas  and  academic 
disciplines  in  an  intellectu- 
allv  charged  atmosphere 
without  the  pressure  of 
grades.  The  emphasis,  Ship- 
man  says,  is  producing  stu- 
/  dents  who  are  "educated," 

meaning  able  to  cope  with 
^^  change,  able  to  learn  on 

M   ^L  their  own,  able  to  recognize 

A  Rl  their  capabilities  and  limita- 

J&  fcjh  tions,  able  to  be  sensitive  to 

Wf*     the  needs  of  other  people, 
y/r  and  able  to  be  motivated 

S  by  a  purpose  greater  than 

themselves. 


He   served  on 
the   Planning 
Committee   for  a 
year  while  also 
working   to  com- 
plete a  textbook 
and  earn  tenure. 


The  Cambridge/Oxford 
model  was  one  of  12  options  for  WPI  the  com- 
mittee outlined  in  its  first  report,  "The  Future  of 
Two  Towers,"  in  March  1969.  "There  were  some 
options  we  didn't  particularly  like,"  van  Alstyne 
says,  "yet  we  felt  it  necessary  to  present  each  one 
in  the  most  favorable  way  possible." 
The  other  options  were 

•  to  become  a  high-quality  graduate  school  in 
engineering  and  science. 

•  to  educate  engineers  and  scientists  to  become 
leaders  in  society. 

•  to  become  a  research-oriented  graduate  center 
in  engineering  and  science. 

•  to  become  a  middle  college,  a  place  for  gradu- 
ates of  the  growing  two-year  college  system  to 


continue  their  education. 

•  to  become  a  high-level  trade  school  and  prepare 
students  to  become  technologists. 

•  to  specialize  in  educating  the  underprivileged. 

•  to  become  a  university  geared  to  the  needs  and 
quirks  of  nascent  inventors  and  entrepreneurs. 

•  to  become  a  general  university,  an  option  best 
achieved  through  a  union  with  Clark  University. 

•  to  become  part  of  the  state  university  svstem. 

•  to  maintain  the  status  quo. 

•  a  combination  of  any  of  the  above. 

Each  of  these  options  would  be  carefullv  pre- 
sented in  the  first  report  or  its  follow-up,  "The 
Future  of  Two  Towers,  Part  II,"  which  appeared 
that  June.  Initial  descriptions  of  the  options, 
along  with  an  analysis  of  the  current  state  of  the 
Institute,  were  written  bv  individual  committee 
members.  As  chair,  Shipman  handed  out  the  writ- 
ing assignments. 

"Bill  is  one  of  the  great  gentlemen  I've 
known,"  Weininger  says,  "but  he  is  also  something 
of  a  taskmaster.  He'd  hand  out  these  assignments 
and  ask  us  to  have  them  done  by  the  next  meet- 
ing— which  sometimes  was  the  next  day.  We  were 
all  carrying  our  full  teaching  loads  and  keeping  up 
with  many  other  responsibilities.  I'd  just  signed  a 
contract  to  write  a  textbook  and  my  first  child  had 
been  born  the  previous  year.  My  wife,  Jennifer,  was 
working  full  time,  as  well,  so  keeping  up  with  the 
committee  work — in  reality,  a  second  full-time 
job — was  difficult.  Some  nights  the  only  way  I 
could  get  my  assignments  done  was  to  dictate 
them  to  Jennifer  while  I  sat  in  the  bathtub." 

Pride  of  authorship  was  not  a  quality  most 
committee  members  clung  to  for  long.  As  the 
drafts  came  in,  the  committee  reviewed  them,  van 
Alstyne  says.  "Reviewed  is  not  the  word  to  use. 
We  found  ourselves  haggling  over  each  word,  not 
out  of  animosity,  but  out  of  a  desire  to  say  it  just 
right.  The  result  was  a  series  of  proposals  written 
by  the  committee  as  a  whole.  I  can  go  through 
the  reports  and  find  parts  of  sentences  we  each 
wrote.  As  a  consequence,  the  reports  were  consis- 
tent and  no  one  could  find  a  section  that  would 
be  recognized  as  the  pet  idea  of  any  one  of  us." 

Before  the  first  report  was  released,  Shipman 
decided  to  give  Storke  a  preview.  "We  typed  the 
report  on  mimeograph  masters,"  Shipman  says, 
"and  I  took  it  to  Storke  to  read.  I  was  advised  to 
do  it  that  way  so  he  wouldn't  change  anything, 
and  he  didn't.  He  was  a  little  upset  because  there 
were  some  things  in  there  he  didn't  like.  He  told 
me  what  thev  were  and  why  he  didn't  like  them. 
Finally,  he  looked  at  me  and  said,  'Print  it!'  As  a 
matter  of  fact,  he  told  me,  'Job  well  done,'  after 
the  report  came  out." 

Some  time  later,  Shipman  was  in  front  of 
Gordon  Library  when  Storke  drove  up  beside 
him  and  asked  him  to  get  in.  "I  told  you,  'Well 
done,'"  Shipman  recalls  him  saying.  "I  should 
have  said,  'Damn  well  done!'"  Adds  Shipman, 


10 


October  1996 


HMMKMnMMM 


"The  next  time  the  committee  heard  from  him 
was  after  the  final  plan  was  submitted.  I  Ie  wrote 
us  a  letter  in  which  he  said  it  was  as  fine  a  plan  as 
he  could  have  imagined.  Storke's  hope  all  along 
had  been  to  make  WPI  worthy  of  being  in  the 
private  sector.  That's  why  we  have  a  private  sec- 
tor— to  innovate." 

"You  can  V  always  get  what  you  want  / 
But  if  you  tiy  sometimes  /  You  just 
might  find  /  You  get  what  you  need. " 

—Mick  Jagger  and  Keith  Richards,  1969 

0fter  the  publication  of  the  first  report,  an 
all-campus  Planning  Day  was  held  to  get 
input  from  the  entire  community  on  the 
12  options.  Several  trustees,  most  of.  the 
faculty  and  many  students  came  and  met  in  small 
groups  to  voice  their  opinions  and,  in  some  cases, 
vent  their  frustrations  and  express  their  elation 
that  a  tidal  wave  of  change  seemed  to  have  been 
set  in  motion.  To  assure  that  everyone  could 
attend,  Storke  declared  that  all  classes  would  be 
canceled  for  the  day,  something  no  one  could 
recall  ever  having  happened  at  WPI. 

The  committee  continued  to  get  input  from 
the  community  through  an  ambitious  series  of 
meetings  with  faculty,  administrators  and  students. 
In  the  process,  committee  members  had  dinner  in 
even'  campus  housing  unit,  including  the  fraternity 
houses.  Their  objective,  Shipman  says,  was  to  be 
sure  that  anyone  with  a  point  to  make  or  an  idea  to 
contribute  would  have  a  chance  to  voice  it,  and 
that  in  the  end,  no  matter  what  form  the  commit- 
tee's final  recommendation  might  take,  everyone 
would  feel  as  if  he  had  had  a  part  in  shaping  it. 

For  Heventhal,  this  exhaustive  procedure 
might  be  the  greatest  legacy  of  the  Planning 
Committee.  "When  you  read  our  reports,  you 
will  see  that  what  we  were  really  talking  about 
was  a  process,"  he  says.  "This  was  just  as  impor- 
tant as  creating  an  ideal  vision  for  WPI.  The 
process  of  planning  was  something  WPI  needed 
in  a  time  of  crisis.  The  communitv  needed  a  way 
of  looking  at  itself  and  at  the  possibilities  for  what 
it  might  become,  and  it  needed  to  know  that  it 
had  the  power  to  bring  about  change." 

As  the  spring  ended,  the  committee  complet- 
ed its  second  report.  Then  it  did  something  quite 
remarkable — it  disbanded.  From  the  beginning, 
many  committee  members  had  been  uncomfort- 
able with  the  idea  of  a  presidentially  appointed 
committee  creating  a  plan  that  would  depend  on 
faculty  support  for  its  success.  In  addition,  the 
motivation  for  reform  had  come  largely  from  the 
faculty,  and  the  committee  worried  that  as  presi- 
dential appointees,  their  allegiances  might  seem 
suspect.  Now,  as  the  time  came  to  move  from  a 
process  to  a  final  plan,  these  concerns  grew  espe- 
cially acute,  and  the  committee  demanded  to  be 
reconstituted  as  a  faculty-elected  bodv. 


I  learing  the  news,  "Storke  was  horrified,"  van 
Alstyne  says.  "Armies  are  not  run  in  a  democratic 
manner."  But  he  notes  that  the  faculty  was  also 
becoming  concerned  over  the  dramatic — perhaps 
radical — course  the  committee  seemed  to  be 
charting.  As  a  result,  tew  ran  tor  election  to  the 
committee's  six  slots.  Weininger,  the  demands  of 
completing  his  textbook  and  of  preparing  his 
tenure  file  weighing  heavily  on  his  mind,  chose 
not  to  serve  again.  \\  Tien  the  votes  were  tallied, 
Shipman,  van  Alstyne,  Heventhal  and  Boyd  were 
re-elected,  but  Roadstrum  was  not. 
In  a  bit  of  poetic  justice,  the  last  two 
slots  would  be  filled  by  two  electrical 
engineering  professors:  Grogan,  who 
had  chaired  the  curriculum  commit- 
tee that  had  ignited  the  drive  toward 
change,  and  Moruzzi,  a  member  of 
the  tenure  committee  that  had 
unleashed  the  faculty  governance 
system.  Seaberg  would  remain  exec- 
utive secretary  until  that  September, 
when  his  appointment  as  assistant 
director  of  admissions  required  that 
he  step  down. 

"Thafs  one  small  step  for  a 
man,  one  giant  leap  for 
mankind. " 

— Neil  Armstrong,  July  20,  1969 

Bhat  summer,  while  Protes- 
tants and  Catholics  fought  in 
Belfast,  children  starved  in 
Biafra,  voung  men  died  in 
the  jungles  of  Vietnam,  the 
"Chicago  Eight"  were  tried  in 
Judge  Hoffman's  courtroom, 
and  Richard  Nixon  settled  into  the 
Oval  Office,  the  faculty-elected  Plan- 
ning Committee  sat  down  around  the  conference 
table  in  Stratton  Hall  and  honed  their  ideas  and 
proposals  into  "The  Future  of  Two  Towers,  Part 
III:  A  Model,"  which  contained  the  essence  of 
what  would  later  come  to  be  called  the  WPI  Plan. 
But  lurking  within  its  pages  was  what  one  com- 
mittee member  would  later  call  "a  poison  pill." 

In  the  report,  the  committee  outlined  an 
approach  that  united  elements  of  several  of  the 
1 2  options,  with  a  heavy  emphasis  on  the  Oxford- 
Cambridge  model.  It  devised  a  program  in  which 
the  requirements  for  graduation  were  based  on  a 
student's  ability  to  learn,  and  not  on  his  or  her 
ability  to  accumulate  facts  through  courses.  It 
included  a  liberal  dose  of  project  and  independent 
study  work  to  "provide  realistic  and  intimate 
learning  situations  for  both  student  and  faculty." 

Students  would  receive  their  degrees  if  they 
successfullv  completed  advanced-level  work  on 
two  projects  (the  committee  stronglv  urged  that 
at  least  one  project  be  completed  off  campus),  a 


His   goal  was   to 
create  a   far  more 
flexible   program. 
Later,    as   dean   of 
academic   advis- 
ing,   he  would 
help   hundreds 
of   students   make 
the  most  of  it. 


WPI  Journal 


11 


• 


I  I 


Hand-picked 
by   President 
Storke,    he 
was   the   only 
member  of  the 
original   Plan- 
ning  Committee 
not   elected  by 
the  faculty  to 
its   second 
incarnation. 


two-year  residency  requirement,  a  comprehensive 
examination  in  a  particular  area  of  study,  and  two 
sufficiency  exams  in  disciplines  other  than  the 
area  of  the  comprehensive  exam.  The  model  also 
stressed  the  importance  of  a  culturally  vital  and 
intellectually  stimulating  community  to  the  suc- 
cess of  such  a  program.  The  committee  summa- 
rized the  philosophy  of  the  model  in  the  follow- 
ing goal  statement,  a  version  of  which  was  adopt- 
ed hy  vote  of  the  faculty  in  December  1969: 

"The  WPI  graduate  of  the  future  must  have 
an  understanding  of  a  sector  of  science  and  tech- 
nology and  a  mature  understanding  of  himself 
and  the  needs  of  the  people  around  him.  While 

an  undergraduate,  he 
must  demonstrate  that 
he  can  learn  and  trans- 
late his  learning  into 
worthwhile  action.  He 
must  learn  to  teach 
himself  those  things 
that  are  needed  to  make 
his  actions  socially  sig- 
nificant. A  WPI  educa- 
tion should  develop  a 
strong  degree  of  self- 
confidence,  an  eager- 
ness to  contribute  to 
the  community  beyond 
oneself,  and  an  intellec- 
tual restlessness,  a  spur 
to  continual  learning." 
jg^  As  the  summer 

f  wore  on,  Shipman  felt 

comfortable  that  the 
committee  had  accom- 
plished its  objective  and 
should  commit  it  to 
paper.  The  other  com- 
mittee members,  how- 
ever, thought  they 
needed  more  time  to  sort  out  a  slew  of  picky 
details  that  had  to  be  resolved  before  the  Plan 
could  be  declared  functional.  They  arranged  for  a 
brief  stay  that  July  at  the  Fitzwilliam  Inn  just  over 
the  border  in  New  Hampshire  to  complete  their 
work.  "I've  often  thought  we  should  put  a  plaque 
up  at  that  inn,"  Grogan  says.  "That's  where  we 
really  hammered  out  the  Plan." 

On  July  19,  as  Apollo  11  astronauts  Neil 
Armstrong  and  Buzz  Aldrin  prepared  to  make  their 
historic  descent  to  the  moon's  surface,  Dean  Price 
and  George  Hazzard,  who  had  just  taken  office  as 
WPI's  1 1th  president,  arrived  to  hear  about  the 
emerging  plan. 

(By  many  reports,  it  was  the  work  of  the  Plan- 
ning Committee  that  turned  the  tide  with  Haz- 
zard. A  St.  Lawrence  University  graduate  with  a 
Ph.D.  in  experimental  physics  and  physical  chem- 
istry from  Cornell,  with  experience  in  academia 
and  industiy,  Hazzard  had  been  involved  in  a 


national  movement  to  reform  physics  teaching. 
Initially,  he  had  been  unimpressed  with  WPI.  But 
after  a  meeting  with  the  Planning  Committee,  he 
realized  that  the  Institute  had  an  opportunity  to 
transform  itself  from  an  unexceptional  college  into 
a  uniquely  different  one. 

"That  meeting  took  place  in  the  Gordon 
Library  Seminar  Room,"  van  Alstyne  says.  "Ironi- 
cally, it  was  the  same  room  where  the  Executive 
Committee  had  met  to  submit  their  long-range 
plans  and  where  they  had  sat  in  shock  when 
Storke  told  them  he'd  appointed  the  Planning 
Committee.") 

After  dinner,  everyone  retired  to  the  living 
room  of  the  inn  for  the  presentation.  The  presi- 
dent and  academic  dean  seemed  enthusiastic;  in 
fact,  both  men  would  become  strong  advocates 
for  the  Plan  and  critical  forces  to  assure  its 
passage  and  success.  "Before  he  became  dean, 
Cookie  Price  had  taught  for  many  years  in  the 
Mechanical  Engineering  Department.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  old  guard,"  Weininger  says.  "But 
he  was  an  open-minded  person  who  was  willing 
to  entertain  the  idea  of  change — even  radical 
change.  And  because  he  enjoyed  pretty  much  uni- 
versal respect  in  the  Institute,  and  because  he  was 
an  insider  with  unassailable  credentials,  he  was 
able  to  head  off  what  could  have  been  a  lot  of  fac- 
tional splitting  and  some  pretty  nasty  infighting 
over  the  Plan.  His  moral  authority  kept  the  place 
together."  Echoes  Boyd,  "It  took  an  enormous  act 
of  faith  for  him  to  put  the  weight  of  his  reputa- 
tion behind  this.  I  really  respected  him  for  that." 

Keeping  things  together  was  much  on  the 
minds  of  committee  members  that  fall  when  "Two 
Towers  III"  was  released.  The  more  the  committee 
had  thought  about  their  model,  which  differed 
fundamentally  from  WPI's  existing  program,  the 
more  they  realized  that  it  could  not  be  carried  out 
successfully  by  the  same  organizational  structure 
that  had  maintained  that  program  far  beyond  its 
useful  life.  In  the  report,  they  outlined  a  new  struc- 
ture that  placed  the  day-to-day  operation  of  the 
academic  program  in  the  hands  of  a  dean  of  pro- 
gram operations  (much  like  the  position  of  dean  of 
undergraduate  studies  that  was  later  established) 
and  a  dean  of  academic  resources  (much  like  the 
current  position  of  provost),  both  of  whom  would 
report  to  the  academic  vice  president. 

But  the  truly  explosive  proposal — the  one  that 
shocked  the  faculty  as  they  returned  that  Septem- 
ber from  the  summer  hiatus — was  to  abolish  the 
academic  departments  and  replace  them  with  three 
academic  divisions  made  up  of  functionally  related 
study  groups.  The  idea  was  to  blast  away  the  rigid, 
stifling  departmental  structure  and  promote  faculty 
interaction  across  disciplines.  To  illustrate  the  con- 
cept, the  committee  included  a  detailed,  iold-out 
organizational  chart.  "That  almost  killed  the  whole 
process,"  Grogan  says.  "It  was  an  idea  that  was  just 
too  far  ahead  of  its  time." 


12 


October  1996 


lUMMUUMOMM 


HHntEHUIl&nEU 


HJMWal>ll»lllMIJUlllllll«nMHilBt<lll  mnUHWMUimWMHIUHMW 


"7b  dream  the  impossible  dream,  to 

reach  the  unreachable  star. " 

Joe  Darion,  from  Man  of  La  Mancha,  1969 

ollowing  closely  on  the  heels  of  the  third 


report  was  a  second  all-campus  Planning 


HDay.  The  committee  also  called  for  the 
establishment  of  nine  subcommittees, 
made  up  of  74  faculty  members  and  90  students,  to 
explore  various  aspects  of  the  proposed  model. 
With  considerable  input  from  the  community;  the 
committee  spent  the  better  part  of  a  year  hammer- 
ing out  "The  Future  of  Two  Towers,  Part  TV:  A 
Plan."  The  suggested  reorganization  of  the  college 
wis  dropped,  but  the  model  academic  program  was 
Hi  shed  out  into  a  dramatically  different,  but  highly 
functional  plan — one  that  encapsulated  the  philoso- 
phy of  education  the  committee  had  been  refining. 

The  degree  requirements  were  formalized 
into  a  Major  Qualifying  Project  (MQP) — a  sig- 
nificant design  or  research  experience  in  the  stu- 
dent's major  field;  a  second  project,  later  dubbed 
the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project  (IQP),  which 
encouraged  students  to  understand  how  technolo- 
gy affects  society — for  better  or  worse;  the  Com- 
prehensive Exam  (later  renamed  the  Competency 
Exam  to  identify  more  clearly  its  real  intent);  and 
the  Sufficiency. 

The  Sufficiency  was  the  culmination  of  the 
committees  deep-seated  desire  to  transform  the 


SEABERG 


role  of  the  humanities  in  a  WPI  education.  "When 
I  arrived,  the  humanities  program  was  quite  limit- 
ed and  the  department  was  really  a  service  depart- 
ment," Heventhal  says.  "Occasionally  we'd  have  a 
student  who  would  have  done  well  at  any  liberal 
arts  college,  who  enjoyed  the  humanities  courses 
so  much  that  he  was  ready  to  transfer  to  another 
college.  I  felt  as  though  these  cases  were  really  fail- 
ures tor  WTI,  because  there  was  a  potential  to 
define  a  humanities  and  arts  program  that  would 
accompany  these  technical  people  in  their  careers, 
and  not  merely  stamp  out  English  majors." 


The  Sufficiency  greatly  elevated  the  role  of  the 
humanities  in  die  undergraduate  curriculum  (in 
tact,  the  humanities  component  of  the  Plan  was  to 
be  given  the  same  academic  "weight"  as  the  MQP 
and  IQP  combined).  No  longer  could  students  of 
engineering  and  science  regard  the  humanities 
courses  as  meaningless  credits  to  be  acquired. 
Consistent  with  the  idea  of  giving  students  respon- 
sibility for  their  own  learning,  students  chose  a 
theme,  explored  it  through  five  related  humanities 
and  arts  courses,  and  then  syn- 
thesized what  they  learned  in 
a  final  project  that  could  take 
the  form  of  anything  from  a 
research  paper  to  a  play  to  a 
musical  performance. 

The  committee  also  pro- 
posed a  new  academic  calendar 
made  up  of  four  seven-week 
terms.  The  terms  were  designed 
to  be  conducive  to  project  work, 
but  were  also  meant  to  be  short 
enough  to  force  the  faculty  to 
break  out  of  their  traditional 
approach  to  teaching.  There 
would  be  an  "intersession"  dur- 
ing the  winter  break,  an  oppor- 
tunity for  community  members 
to  teach  brief  courses  on  any 
topic  that  interested  them  or  in  which  they  had 
some  expertise.  (The  first  year,  440  mini-courses 
were  offered.  For  the  six  years  of  its  existence, 
Intersession  would  be  one  of  the  liveliest  and  most 
exciting  elements  of  the  young  Plan.)  Finally,  there 
was  a  grading  system  with  just  three  grades — 
Acceptable,  Acceptable  with  Distinction,  and  No 
Record  (there  was  no  failing  grade,  as  the  commit- 
tee believed  failure  should  be  seen  as  an  opportuni- 
ty to  learn  and  grow,  and  not  a  stigma  permanently 
attached  to  one's  transcript).  The  grading  system 
represented  a  compromise  between  those,  like 


as   executive 
secretary   to   the 
Planning   Committee 
he   recorded-and 
contributed  to- 
many  impassioned 
discussions  about 
education  and 
wpi's   future. 


The  advocacy  of  Dean 
"Cookie"  Price,  left,  and 
newly  inaugurated  pres- 
ident George  Hazzard 
proved  crucial  to  the 
Plan's  passage  and 
success. 


WPI  Journal 


13 


Boyd,  who  preferred  that  there  be  no  grades  at  all, 
and  those,  like  Grogan,  who  feared  the  lack  of  a 
more  traditional  system  would  be  problematic  for 
students  going  on  to  graduate  school. 

"Two  Towers  IV,"  the  last  in  the  series,  was 
published  in  April  1970.  Unlike  the  previous 

three  volumes,  which  had  been 
bound  with  maroon  covers,  this 
one  was  wrapped  in  green.  "We 
called  it  the  'Go  Volume,'" 
Heventhal  says.  The  publication 
kicked  off  an  extraordinary 
series  of  13  faculty  meetings — 
one  every  week — to  discuss  and 
amend  the  final  report,  section 
by  section.  The  meetings  were 
boisterous,  volatile  and  con- 


il 


Debate  over  the 

proposed  WPI  Plan 

took  place  in  formal 

meetings,  including 

13  faculty  meetings, 

and  in  informal  settings 

like  the  Goat's  Head 

Pub,  above. 


tentious.  Strong  feelings  were  voiced  as  the  future 
of  the  Institute — and  the  very  foundation  of  edu- 
cation— were  debated  in  eloquent  and  passionate 
fashion.  Remarkably,  the  discussion  managed  to 
stay  focused  on  the  issues,  and  rarely  strayed  into 
nastiness  or  personal  attacks.  "Voices  were  raised 
and  tempers  flared,  but  mutual  respect  was  never 
breached,"  Boyd  says.  "Lifelong  friendships  were 
forged  in  that  heat." 

In  between  meetings,  the  discussion  contin- 
ued all  over  campus,  especially  at  the  daily  10  a.m. 
coffee  hour  in  Salisbury  Laboratories,  a  longtime 
ritual  that  provided  a  means  of  campus  communi- 
cation unrivaled  by  even  today's  wired  campus, 
and  at  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  in  the  basement  of 
Sanford  Riley  Hall,  a  popular  place  for  faculty 
members,  administrators  and  students  to  gather 
and  socialize  on  Friday  evenings.  Two  critical 
changes  were  made  in  the  Plan:  the  inclusion  of 
a  physical  education  requirement  and  the  stipu- 
lation that  students  achieve  12  units  of  credit 
before  taking  the  Competency  Exam  (an  amend- 
ment offered  by  Chemical  Engineering  Professor 


Wilmer  Kranich  to  give  the  Plan  a  better  sense  of 
structure). 

"It  was  difficult  for  the  committee  to  listen  to 
some  of  the  criticism  and  there  were  times  when 
we  felt  a  bit  discouraged,"  van  Alstyne  says.  "But 
there  were  positive  moments,  too.  I  remember 
one  meeting  not  long  before  the  final  vote  when 
a  senior  member  of  the  faculty,  Professor  Dick 
Cobb  of  the  Math  Department,  rose  to  speak.  I 
could  see  the  smiles  on  the  faces  of  the  tradition- 
alists, but  those  smiles  quickly  faded.  Cobb,  in  his 
own  well-reasoned  way,  supported  the  Plan  as  the 
best  way  for  WPI  to  improve  its  standing  and 
educational  opportunities." 

At  another  critical  point,  when  a  faculty7 
member  asked  pointedly,  "Who  would  hire  a 
graduate  of  a  program  like  this?"  Howard  Free- 
man '40,  a  WPI  graduate,  a  recently  elected 
member  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees,  and  the 
founder  and  chairman  of  Jamesbury  Corporation, 
a  successful  Worcester  manufacturer  of  valves, 
ended  the  discussion  by  responding  in  a  calm, 
quiet  voice,  "I  would." 

On  May  29,  1970,  the  time  came  for  a  vote. 
The  committee  had  asked  that  there  be  one  all- 
or-nothing,  up-or-down  decision,  to  avoid  the 
piecemeal  recasting  of  their  vision.  While  their 
reading  of  the  faculty  told  them  that  the  odds 
were  in  their  favor,  the  tension  was  still  high  as 
the  faculty  filled  out  their  written  ballots.  When 
the  counting  was  done,  Professor  James  Hensel, 
the  secretary  of  the  faculty,  announced  the  tally: 
92  in  favor,  46  opposed  and  3  abstaining.  After 
the  vote,  the  victors  retired  to  Putnam  and 
Thurston's  restaurant  for  a  real  blow-out,  a 
celebration  party  few  will  ever  forget. 

Some  of  those  who  voted  against  the  Plan 
left  WPI  in  the  weeks  and  months  that  followed, 
unable  or  unwilling  to  go  along  with  this  funda- 
mental shift  in  the  Institute's  course.  Some  stayed 
and  resisted  the  changes — some  for  decades.  Some 
stayed  and  did  their  best  to  adapt — a  number  of 
them  became  some  of  the  Plan's  greatest  boosters, 
and  others  became  some  of  its  most  adept  practi- 
tioners. In  the  end,  nobody  was  left  unchanged  by 
the  educational  earthquake  called  the  WPI  Plan. 

But  when  the  shaking  stopped,  WPI  was  still 
there,  strengthened  from  the  experience,  and  in 
many  ways  a  better  institution  than  it  had  ever 
been.  The  earthquake  completed  the  crumbling 
of  the  Institute's  top-down  organization,  leaving 
in  its  place  a  faculty  in  awe  of  its  newfound 
power.  "At  the  end  of  that  period,  we  really  had 
a  faculty,"  Boyd  says.  "They  trusted  each  other 
and  they  were  terribly  interested  in  faculty  gover- 
nance, which  was  new  to  them.  They  saw  the 
power  of  it  and  the  need  for  it.  I  don't  suppose 
you  can  maintain  that  forever,  but  it  was  nice  to 
be  in  on  it  when  it  happened." 

"The  outpouring  of  energy  and  creativity  on 
the  part  of  the  entire  faculty  during  the  early 


14 


October  1996 


immiMiiain  in  mil  inn 


years  of  the  Plan's  implementation  was  incredi- 
ble," Grogan  says.  "The  dedication  of  the  faculty 
to  the  Flan  was  just  remarkable." 


Epilogue 


D 


n  the  25  years  since  the  WPI  Plan  made 
its  dramatic  entrance,  many  have  won- 


lered  how  a  small  band  of  faculty  mem- 
>ers,  working  against  the  clock  and  with 
no  resources  other  than  their  own  ideas  and  ded- 
ication, were  able  to  make  it  happen.  In  part,  it 
was  WPI — its  heritage  of  innovation;  its  loyal, 
dedicated  faculty,  passionately  concerned  about 
education;  its  small,  cohesive  and  supportive  com- 
munity; and  its  financial  situation,  which  while 
not  dire  was  certainly  troubling — that  made  the 
Plan  possible.  It  may  well  be  true,  as  Seaberg 
believes,  that  it  could  not  have  happened  at 
another  institution,  and,  in  fact,  could  not  happen 
at  WPI  today. 

But  much  of  the  credit  must  go  to  the  Planning 
Committee  itself,  an  extraordinarily  well-matched 
and  forward-looking  group  of  individuals.  "We 
were  a  group  of  strong  personalities,  all  a  bit  eccen- 
tric in  our  own  ways,"  Boyd  says,  "but  there  wrere 
no  hidden  agendas,  no  competition  for  power — 
in  a  short  time,  we  gained  complete  trust  in  one 
another,  and  I  never  knew  why.  We  felt  we  had  a 
mission,  and  in  the  process  of  fulfilling  it  we 
became  more  than  the  sum  of  our  parts.  It  was  the 
kind  of  committee  activity  you  dream  of,  but  which 
I  never  knew  before  and  have  never  known  since." 

"We  all  cared  very  much  about  teaching,  about 
our  students  and  about  education  in  general,"  van 
Alstyne  says.  "We  were  college  faculty  first,  and 
department  faculty  second,  and  we  had  friends  in 
all  the  departments.  WTiat's  more,  everything  we 
proposed  we  felt  was  something  that  could  and 
should  be  done,  and  having  all  of  us,  with  our  dif- 
ferent backgrounds  and  interests,  find  agreement 
gave  us  impetus  to  continue  to  the  end." 

After  the  Plan  was  approved,  the  members  of 
the  committee  moved  on  to  other  challenges.  Roy 
Seaberg  went  on  to  become  director  of  special 
admissions,  helping  expand  WPI's  reputation 
around  the  world.  He  retired  this  year  and  was 
honored  at  Reunion  for  his  service  and  devotion 
to  WPI. 

Boyd,  Heventhal,  Moruzzi,  Roadstrum,  van 
Alstyne  and  Weininger  returned  to  their  lives  as 
teachers  and  scholars,  earning  distinction  as  both. 
Romeo  Moruzzi  served  as  secretary  of  the  faculty 
from  1983  until  1985,  when  he  retired.  He  died 
in  L993.  Bill  Roadstrum,  who  retired  in  1980, 
died  in  1994. 

John  van  Alstyne  became  dean  of  academic 
advising  in  1971  and  spent  more  than  a  decade 
and  a  half  making  a  profound  difference  in  the 
lives  of  hundreds  of  WPI  students.  He  retired  in 
1987  and  lives  in  North  Carolina. 


Charles  I  leventhal  became  head  of  the  Eng- 
lish Department  and  spent  several  years  building 
a  humanities  program  and  organization  equal  to 
the  ideal  ot  the  Sufficiency — one  that  could  pro- 
vide students  the  exposure  to  the  humanities  and 
arts,  and  the  writing  skills,  that  the  Plan  demand- 
ed. 1  [e  retired  in  1990  and  lives  in  Vermont. 

Jack  Boyd,  who  retired  in  1994,  divides  his 
time  between  Worcester  and  Maine.  He  became 
one  of  the  Plan's  most  passionate  advocates  and 
watchdogs,  at  once  applying  its  principles  to  his 
work  as  a  teacher  and  project  advisor  and  criticiz- 
ing the  changes  that  gradually  seemed  to  steer  the 
Plan  away  from  those  principles. 

Steve  Weininger  continues  today  as  professor 
ot  chemistry.  In  recent  years  he  has  become 
actively  involved  as  an  advisor  in  WPI's  Global 
Perspective  Program,  through  which  students  can 
complete  their  WPI  Plan  projects  at  sites  around 
the  world. 

Bill  Shipman  became  dean  of  graduate  stud- 
ies. ( )ne  of  his  first  tasks  was  to  head  a  committee 
that  set  out  to  revitalize  the  graduate  program- 
to  create,  in  essence,  a  WPI  Plan  for  graduate 
students.  In  the  end,  though,  the  Institute,  per- 
haps still  reeling  from  the  dramatic  change  it  had 
just  undergone,  was  unprepared  to  implement  its 
suggestions.  By  the  time  the  committee's  report 
was  released,  Shipman  had  already  decided  to 
resign  to  join  the  Cabot  Corporation,  where  he 
continued  his  groundbreaking  work  in  combus- 
tion. He  now  lives  in  Maine,  not  far  from  the 
cottage  where  Boyd  spends  his  summers. 

Even  before  the  Plan  vote  was  taken,  President 
Hazzard  asked  Bill  Grogan  to  become  the  first 
dean  of  undergraduate  studies.  In  the  process,  he 
became  WPI's  first  dean  who  had  never  been  a 
department  head.  The  man  who  David  Reisman, 
the  eminent  Harvard  professor  of  social  science 
who  served  on  the  NSF  visiting  committee  that 
evaluated  the  Plan,  called  "the  Harry  Truman  of 
higher  education,"  spent  the  better  part  of  two 
decades  managing  the  gargantuan  task  of  imple- 
menting and  developing  the  Plan,  and  protecting 
it  from  internal  and  external  forces  that  constantly 
threatened  it.  Grogan  retired  in  1990.  Since  then, 
as  dean  emeritus,  he  has  remained  actively  in- 
volved in  many  WPI  projects  (most  recently,  he 
led  the  committee  that  orchestrated  the  Plan's  25th 
anniversary  celebration). 

Some  years  back,  while  in  Vermont  to  begin 
a  trip  out  West,  Shipman  stopped  for  an  over- 
night visit  with  Heventhal.  "Well,"  Shipman  said 
as  he  shook  the  hand  of  his  old  colleague  and 
fellow  revolutionary,  "a  couple  of  years  ago,  we 
turned  the  place  upside  down."  "Yes,"  Heventhal 
replied.  "And  some  of  it  stuck!" 

Editor's  Note:  ///  Pan  2  of  this  article,  to  be 
published  in  March  1997,  we  will  look  at  what  has 

become  of  the  Plan  during  the  past  2>  years. 


WPI  Journal 


15 


A  Gateway 
to  Adulthood 


The  WPI  Plan  is  something  of  a  paradox. 
Its  basic  elements  can  be  described  fairly 
well  in  a  few  hundred  words,  but  the 
concepts  and  philosophy  behind  those 
elements  are  complex  and  continually 
evolving,  making  a  complete 
understanding  of  this  unique 
educational  program  difficult 
Here  is  a  primer  that  may 
shed  a  little  light  on  one  of 
the  nation  V  most  innovative 
approaches  to  technological 
education. 


By  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


On  a  rainy  November  morning  in  1 868,  a 
group  of  Worcester  citizens  and  educa- 
tional leaders  from  around  the  region 
trudged  through  muddy  streets  and  climbed  a 
steep,  nearly  treeless  hill.  Rising  before  them,  side 
by  side,  were  the  gleaming  facades  of  two  brand 
new  buildings.  One  was  sheathed  in  rough-hewn 
granite,  the  other  neatly  encased  in  rows  of  bright 
red  bricks. 

Above  each  building  rose  a  tower.  From  the 
tower  of  Boynton  Hall,  the  granite  building,  four 
clock  faces  stared  down.  For  decades,  the  Boynton 
clock  would  call  students  to  lectures  and  labs  in 
this,  WPI's  first  classroom  building.  The  tower  of 
the  Washburn  Shops,  the  brick  structure,  sported 
an  unusual  weathervane.  At  its  peak  was  a  muscular 
arm,  its  hand  firmly  grasping  a  large  blacksmith's 
hammer.  The  bronze  arm  symbolized  the  hard, 
manual  labor  students  would  expend  within  the 
Shops  as  they  put  into  practice  the  theory  of  sci- 
ence, engineering  and  manufacturing. 

While  the  rain  drummed  against  the  large  win- 
dows of  the  chapel  on  the  third  floor  of  Boynton 
Iall,  the  invited  guests  listened  to  a  long  proces- 
sion of  speakers  who  welcomed  the  new  Worcester 
County  Free  Institute  of  Industrial  Science  to  the 
world  of  academia  and  proclaimed  its  mission. 
That  mission,  as  the  two  towers  silently  testified, 
was  to  create  a  unique  educational  program  that 
neatly  balanced  theory  and  practice,  to  educate 
young  professionals  who  not  only  knew  facts, 
formulas  and  equations,  but  who  had  the  skill 
and  self-confidence  to  use  them  to  tackle 
real  problems. 


:V\ 


-V 


V 


\v 


X 


mmsM 


RVtt< 


R0Zt 


Just  over  a  century  later,  WPI  once  again  broke 
with  the  ranks  or  technological  educators  and  fashioned 
a  nuw  program  unlike  any  that  had  come  before.  Like 
its  predecessor,  the  WPI  Plan  gave  students  the  oppor- 
tunity to  hone  their  personal  and  professional  skills 
through  practical  application.  But  there  is  more  to  the 
Plan  than  the  marriage  of  learning  and  practice.  The 
Plan  is  built  upon  a  well-reasoned  philosophical  foun- 
dation— a  distinct  set  of  beliefs  about  the  role  of  faculty 
members  and  smdents  in  the  process  of  learning. 

The  Plan  was  created  at  a  college  quite  different 
from  the  larger,  more  diverse  technological  university 
that  WPI  has  become  in  the  last  quarter  century.  WPI 
in  the  mid-  to  late  1960s  was  a  more  rigid  and  conven- 
tional institution,  a  school  where  the  emphasis  was  on 
passing  a  largely  pre-determined  sequence  of  courses, 
and  in  the  process,  it  was  believed,  gaining  the  knowl- 
edge one  needed  to  be  a  competent  technological 
professional.  This  is  the  model  still  followed  by  the 
majority  of  technological  institutions  in  this  country. 

The  members  of  the  faculty  Planning  Committee 
that  created  the  Plan  believed  that  this  model,  while  it 
had  provided  a  solid  education  to  many  generations  of 
WPI  students,  was  not  the  best  way  to  prepare  young 
people  for  the  challenges  of  their  careers  and  lives. 
They  believed  that  higher  education,  at  its  core,  should 
be  a  gateway  to  adulthood,  a  period  during  which  men 
and  women  can  gain  the  emotional,  social  and  intellec- 
tual maturity  they  need  to  succeed  in  life.  Attaining 
maturity  requires  taking  on  responsibility  and  making 
decisions — even  failing,  from  rime  to  rime. 

In  facr,  the  Plan  places  a  great  deal  of  the  responsi- 
bility for  their  education  on  the  shoulders  of  students. 
In  stark  contrast  to  the  largely  prescribed  curricula 
of  the  1960s,  the  Plan  gives  students  the  freedom  to 
structure  their  own  academic  programs,  with  consider- 
able guidance  from  their  advisors. 

There  are  no  required  courses,  and  undergraduate 
courses  have  no  prerequisites — only  recommended 
background  courses.  Students  must  fulfill  a  set  of  dis- 
tribution requirements  in  their  major  field.  These  art- 
designed  to  assure  that  students  do,  indeed,  acquire 
an  "excellent  grasp  of  fundamental  concepts  in 


their  principal  area  of  Study,"  as  the  university's  Goal 
Statement  asserts.  About  a  decade  ago,  distribution 
requirements  replaced  the  "live  or  die"  Competency 
Exam  as  the  method  of  verifying  that  students  had 
learned  what  they  needed  to  know  to  enter  their 
chosen  profession. 

The  Planning  Committee  also  believed  that  in  its 
ideal  form,  education  is  a  process  of  learning  how  to 
learn,  and  that  a  WPI  education  should  insrill  in  stu- 
dents "an  intellectual  restlessness  that  spurs  him  or  her 
to  continued  learning."  They  recognized  that  tradi- 
tional technological  programs — including  WPI's — 
placed  too  much  emphasis  on  memorizing  facts  and 
equations  and  passing  tests,  and  too  little  on  learning 
how  to  acquire  and  synthesize  knowledge  and  apply  it 
to  real  problems.  They  decided  to  develop  a  new  spin 
on  the  century-old  Two  'lowers  model. 

Under  the  Plan,  students  take  courses  and  inde- 
pendent studies  and  engage  in  self-directed  learning  to 
acquire  needed  skills  and  knowledge.  But  this  learning 
is  not  an  end  in  and  of  itself.  It  is  also  preparation  for 
rhe  Plan's  primary  degree  requirements — the  "prac- 
tice" side  of  the  Plan.  Students  apply  the  knowledge 
ami  competence  diey  gain  though  their  academic  work 
by  completing  three  major  projects,  each  having  been 
designed  to  address  a  set  of  skills,  qualities  and  abilities 
the  Planning  Committee  believed  technological  pro- 
fessionals should  acquire  during  their  WTI  careers. 

To  begin  with,  the  committee  believed,  WPI 
graduates  should  be  aware  of  the  world  of  knowledge 
beyond  rheir  own  areas  of  study.  If  they  are  preparing 
for  careers  in  science  and  technology,  they  should 
appreciate  how  the  study  of  history,  philosophy,  art 
or  music  enriches  one's  professional  and  personal  lives. 
Likewise,  students  pursuing  degrees  in  rhe  liberal  arts 
should  appreciate  how  scientists  and  engineers  approach 
rheir  work  and  be  familiar  with  rhe  technology— 

especially  computer  and  telecom- 
munications technology — that  is 
so  important  to  virtually 
every  career  roday. 

To  help  students 
develop  this  aware- 
ness, WTI  created 


The  Planning 
Committee 
believed  that  in 
its  ideal  form, 
education  is 
a  process  of 
learning  how 
to  learn. 


17 


ILLUSTRATION  BY  PAUL  METCALF 


The  IQP  has 

been  widely 

recognized  as  the 

most  creative 

and  effective 

innovation  in 

technological 

education  in  the 

last  quarter 

century. 


i 


the  Sufficiency.  The  name  of 
this  project  derives  from  the 
idea  that  students  need  a  depth 
of  exposure  to  either  a  humanistic  or 
technical  field  sufficient  to  produce  more 
than  a  cursory  appreciation.  The  project 
requires  students  to  take  five  thematically  related 
courses  and  then  to  complete  an  original  work  of 
scholarship  that  somehow  derives  from  the  con- 
tent of  those  courses.  The  works  students  have 
completed  include  research  papers,  lengthy  essays 
written  in  another  language,  original  plays,  short 
stories,  novels,  musical  compositions  and  musical 
performances. 

The  framers  of  the  Plan  also  believed  that 
technological  professionals  should  understand  that 
they  do  not  work  in  a  vacuum;  that  their  work 
affects  society,  and  that  society,  in  turn,  affects  the 
kinds  of  work  they  do — or  need  to  do.  More  and 
more,  engineers  and  scientists  must  deal  with 
social  and  political  issues  as  part  of  their  careers 
and  lives,  and  must  develop  partnerships  with  pro- 
fessionals in  nontechnical  fields  to  successfully 
carry  out  their  assignments. 

This  belief  led  to  the  creation  of  the  Interac- 
tive Qualifying  Project  (IQP).  Put  simply,  the  IQP 
requires  students  to  complete  original  research  and 
scholarship  on  a  topic  that  lies  on  the  boundaries 
of  science,  technology  and  society. 

Read  the  abstracts  of  a  hundred  of  these  pro- 
jects, and  you  might  be  hard  pressed  to  find  a 
common  theme  among  them.  To  fulfill  the  IQP 
requirement,  students  have  studied  the  problems 
of  garbage  collection  in  a  large  slum  in  Bangkok, 
looked  at  the  potential  for  using  biogas  as  an  ener- 
gy source  in  Botswana,  made  numerous  studies  of 
the  American  patent  system  for  the  U.S.  Patent 
Office,  developed  innovative  curricular  materials 
and  courses  for  pre-college  classrooms,  researched 
and  built  exhibits  for  major  New  England  muse- 
ums, studied  health  care  management  issues  at 
hospitals  in  San  Francisco,  and  developed  technol- 
ogy to  help  disabled  persons  in  London  lead  more 
productive  and  rewarding  lives. 

The  IQP  has  been  widely  recognized  as  the 
most  creative  and  effective  innovation  in  techno- 
logical education  in  the  last  quarter  century.  While 
other  elements  of  the  Plan  have  been  duplicated  to 
some  extent  at  other  colleges  and  universities, 
nothing  quite  like  the  IQP  yet  exists  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  the  WPI  campus. 

In  addition  to  completing  the  Sufficiency  and 
IQP,  WPI  students  must  tackle  the  Major  Quali- 
fying Project  (MQP).  The  MQP  was  created  in 
response  to  a  number  of  convictions  about  what  a 
professional  should  be  capable  of.  First  and  fore- 
most, he  or  she  should  be  able  to  size  up  a  prob- 
lem, develop  a  solution  to  it,  and  then  implement 
that  solution  competendy  and  professionally. 
That's  why  MQPs,  by  and  large,  are  professional- 
level  design  or  research  projects  that  give  students 


hands-on  exposure  to  the  kinds  of  work  assign- 
ments they  will  really  do  after  graduation. 

Professionals  today  also  need  to  be  able  to 
work  in  teams  and  to  communicate  well  in  writing 
and  orally.  Most  MQPs  are  completed  by  student 
teams,  giving  team  members  a  true  appreciation 
for  the  challenges  and  rewards  of  cooperating  with 
other  professionals  to  get  important  work  done 
under  a  deadline.  MQPs  must  be  thoroughly  docu- 
mented in  a  written  report.  In  addition,  virtually 
all  MQP  teams  make  an  oral  presentation  to  their 
advisors  and  sponsors. 

In  recent  years,  WPI  has  added  an  exciting 
new  dimension  to  the  Plan  by  building  a  growing 
infrastructure  for  student  project  work  away  from 
campus.  In  the  process,  the  university  has  taken 
the  lead  in  globalizing  technological  higher  educa- 
tion. In  fact,  WPI  students  currently  account  for 
more  than  15  percent  of  all  U.S.  engineering  stu- 
dents studying  abroad.  WPI's  Global  Perspective 
Program  has  grown  from  the  conviction  that  to  be 
successful  in  business,  engineering  and  science  in 
our  increasingly  interdependent  world,  engineers 
and  scientists  must  understand  other  cultures  and 
be  able  to  work  with — and  compete  against — 
people  from  all  nations  and  backgrounds. 

WPI's  comprehensive  program  is  aimed  at  giv- 
ing all  undergraduates  a  global  perspective.  To  this 
end,  the  university  maintains  an  extensive  network 
of  project  centers  and  programs  around  the  world. 
Working  in  teams  under  the  supervision  of  faculty 
advisors,  students  spend  seven  weeks  at  an  interna- 
tional project  center  conducting  professional-level 
projects  proposed  by  off-campus  sponsors.  Stu- 
dents can  complete  any  of  the  three  required  WPI 
projects — the  Sufficiency,  the  IQP  and  the  MQP — 
overseas  or  off  campus  within  the  U.S.  Through 
academic  exchange  programs  with  technical  uni- 
versities in  several  nations,  students  can  spend  as 
long  as  a  year  taking  courses  and  continuing  their 
study  of  such  languages  as  French,  German,  Russ- 
ian and  Spanish. 

"While  some  of  the  early  features  of  the  Plan 
reflected  the  times  in  which  they  were  developed, 
the  basic  educational  processes  are  timeless,"  says 
William  R.  Grogan  '46,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  emeritus.  "Placing  responsibility  for  learn- 
ing in  the  hands  of  the  students — including 
responsibility  for  making  their  own  course  deci- 
sions and  selecting  their  own  qualifying  projects — 
and  requiring  accountability  for  acheiving  profes- 
sional outcomes  through  project  activities  combine 
to  produce  an  outstanding  educational  experience. 

"We  enter  the  next  25  years  with  a  vast  array 
of  new  teaching  technologies,  a  rapidly  broadening 
spectrum  of  student  interests,  and  an  explosion  of 
new  career  challenges.  As  we  do  so  the  WTI  Plan 
will  evolve  and  grow,  but  remain  the  best  format 
yet  developed  in  technological-based  education  to 
acheive  that  elusive  but  essential  goal  of  learning 
how  to  learn." 


18 


October  1996 


mummuHHHmafflMMMna 


MMMBWMMBBnoa 


THE     PLAN     AT     25 


Ten  Lives  Ck 


The  best  way  to  understand  what  makes  the  WPI 
Plan  unique  and  uniquely  effective  is  to  talk  to  the 
men  and  women  whose  lives  it  has  touched. 

by  ray  bert  '93,  alan  earles,  bonnie  gelbwasser, 

joan  killough-miller,  roger  n.  perry  jr.  '45  and  ruth  trask 

Illustrations  by  Fabio  Deponte,  White  Pickets  Studio 

Since  the  WPI  Plan  was  first  implemented  in  the  early  1970s,  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  words  have  been  written  about  the  workings  and  benefits  of  this 
groundbreaking  undergraduate  program.  The  lion's  share  ot  those  words  have 
focused  on  the  Plan's  outcome-oriented  approach.  In  other  words,  while  most  pro- S 
grams  of  technological  higher  education  ask,  "What  should  students  learn?"  the 
Plan  asks  instead,  "What  should  technological  professionals  be?  What  skills,  abili- 
ties and  qualities  should  they  take  with  them  as  they  begin  their  careers  and  lives?" 

The  answers  to  those  questions  are  many.  Encapsulated  within  the  Plan  is  the 
notion  that  students  should  be  able  to  work  in  and  lead  teams;  to  size  up  problems 
and  solve  them  in  a  logical  and  efficient  manner;  to  gather  the  knowledge  they  need 
to  do  their  jobs  and  to  communicate  what  they  have  learned  and  what  they  have 
accomplished  in  a  clear  and  professional  manner.  By  the  time  they  receive  their 
diplomas,  WPI  students  should  have  come  to  understand  the  profound  relationship 
between  the  work  they  do  and  the  society  in  which  thev  live.  Thev  should  appreci- 
ate the  positive  and  negative  consequences  of  science  and  technology  and  come  to 
understand  that  those  effects  are  often  intertwined  in  complex  ways.  And,  they 
should  see  that  there  are  diverse  and  exciting  worlds  of  scholarship  beyond  their 
own  field  of  study  and  appreciate  how  those  worlds  can  enrich  their  lives. 

During  the  Plan's  first  quarter  century,  more  than  12,000  young  men  and 
women  have  earned  their  bachelor  of  science  degrees  at  WPI,  studying  under  this 
student-centered,  project-driven,  outcome-oriented  program.  Their  stories  provide 
a  compelling  and  often  poignant  confirmation  of  all  those  many  words.  Here  are  10 
of  those  tales.  To  avoid  repetition,  we  have  not  provided  definitions  of  the  compo- 
nents of  the  WPI  Plan  within  each  story.  For  definitions  of  the  Sufficiency,  Inter- 
active Qualifying  Project  (IQP)  and  Major  Qualifying  Project  (MQP),  please  refer 
to  "A  Gateway  to  Adulthood,"  starting  on  page  16. 


VATI  JOURNAL 


TEN      LIVES     CHANGED 


Barbara  Bain 
Gatticn  '74 


BY  RAY  BERT  '93 

Barbara  Gatison  tackles  questions  in 
much  the  same  way  she  tackles  prob- 
lems— directly,  intelligently  and  with 
enough  energy  to  knock  you  backwards  if 
you  happen  to  be  standing  too  close,  or 
worse,  getting  in  the  way.  "You  can't  ever 
get  a  simple  answer  to  a  question  from  me," 
she's  the  first  to  admit.  In  fact,  she  makes 
mincemeat  of  them,  as  she  has  been  doing 
to  all  manner  of  problems  and  obstacles 
throughout  her  career. 

Gatison  is  currently  president  of  SNET 
America  in  North  Haven,  Conn., 
the  interstate  long-distance  sub- 
sidiary of  Southern  New  Eng- 
land Telecommunications. 
She's  also  president 


introducing  myself,  setting  up  meetings  that 
same  day.  I  wasn't  going  to  wait  around  for 
more  direction."  Dragging  her  notes  home 
that  evening,  she  typed  up  a  report  and  cre- 
ated the  badge  background  by  photograph- 
ing a  colorful  handmade  blanket  (so  it 
couldn't  be  duplicated).  Gatison  completed 
the  six-month  project  in  one  day  and  imme- 
diately went  back  -,*^    '--*."V 
tor  more.                j*y-  -  <\ 
from  that 
point  on  I 
proceeded  to 
drive  them 
crazy,"  she 
notes. 


of  SNET  Wireline 
Communications, 
a  product  develop- 
ment house.  She's 
reached  this  lofty 
perch  after  22 
promotion- 
studded  years 
with  the  compa- 
ny, where  she 
began  as  a  sys- 
tems analyst  in 
1974  after  receiv- 
ing her  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  biology. 

"After  graduation,  I  had  an  offer  to  do 
research,  but  the  money  wasn't  much  and  I 
had  a  lot  of  debts,"  she  recalls.  "So  I  took 
the  job  with  SNET,  telling  myself  that  I'd 
give  it  two  years  and  then  get  back  to  bio- 
logical research.  Well,  after  two  years  I  was 
promoted,  so  I  gave  it  another  two  years, 
and  then  I  was  promoted  again...." 

What  she  discovered  was  diat,  as  much  as 
biology  fascinated  her,  her  main  passion  was 
not  specific  to  a  field  but  to  the  pursuit  of 
solutions — to  taking  on  challenges  and  suc- 
ceeding. She  established  herself  as  a  master 
problem  solver  on  her  first  day  with  SNET. 
Her  supervisor  assigned  her  the  task  of  devel- 
oping a  new  badge  security  system,  a  project 
he  said  was  expected  to  take  six  months. 

"I  had  no  notion  of  how  things  were 
supposed  to  be  done  in  business,"  she 
laughs,  "so  I  just  started  calling  people, 


This  "get 
at  it"  style,  which 
she  attributes  in  large  measure  to  her  educa- 
tion at  WPI,  combined  with  a  preternatural 
energy  level,  pushed  Gatison  relentlessly  up 
die  corporate  ladder  at  SNET.  "I  have  a  very 
high  need  for  learning,"  she  says,  and  then 
adds  with  a  laugh,  "If  I  can't  constantly  be  on 
the  growth  side  of  the  learning  curve,  I  am 
one  evil  pain  in  the  ass." 

To  a  large  degree,  Gatison's  career  has 
reflected  the  Plan  philosophies  of  indepen- 
dence and  the  ability  to  think  and  solve 
problems  in  original  ways.  She  nurtures 
those  qualities  in  her  subordinates,  insisting 
that  they  not  become  pigeonholed,  reward- 
ing their  willingness  to  learn,  and  giving 
them  the  power  and  encouragement  to  find 
solutions  in  their  own  ways.  She  also 
preaches  to  her  staft  about  the  need  for  a 


healthy  balance  between  work  and  home 
life,  and  strives  for  that  balance  in  her  own 
life.  Her  "downtime"  is  split  between  her 
husband,  Lenward,  and  eight-year-old  son, 
Lenward  II,  and  her  many  volunteer  efforts. 
Over  the  years,  the  latter  have  included 
serving  on  the  boards  of  the  New  Haven 
(Conn.)  YWCA  and  Saint  Raphael's  Health- 
Care  System.  She  was  co-chair  of  the  Citi- 
zen's Task  Force  Fighting  Drug  Abuse  in 
New  Haven  and  is  a  member  of  WPI's 
board  of  trustees,  an  honor  that,  she  says, 
both  surprised  and  delighted  her. 

She  has  been  honored  by  the  National 
Association  of  Negro  Business  and  Profes- 
sional Women's  Clubs,  and  earlier  this  year 
was  named  Minority  Businessperson  of  the 
Year  by  Business  New  Haven.  In  1992  she 
received  the  Milestone  Award  for 
Business  from  the  South  Central 
Connecticut  Chapter  of 
the  National  Coalition 
*|  of  100  Black  Women 
^  Inc.,  and  the  following 
!*  year  received  the  Busi- 
ness Leadership  Award 
from  the  Chi  Omicron 
Chapter  of  Omega  Psi 
Phi  Fraternity  Inc.  In 
1984  she  became  the 
initial  recipient  of  WPI's 

/Ichabod  Washburn 
Young  Alumni  Award  for 
Professional  Achievement. 
In  the  early  1970s, 
/    she  was  a  member  of  only 
the  third  class  of  WPI  stu- 
dents to  include  women.  "At  the 
time,  there  was  both  a  gender  and 
a  race  dynamic  for  me,"  she  recalls. 
"It  was  the  time  of  the  Black  Panthers  and 
such,  and  I  had  my  fun  being  a  radical,  but  I 
always  remembered  that  my  main  focus  was 
getting  an  education." 

Her  rebellious  nature  almost  kept  her 
from  choosing  the  Plan  over  the  traditional 
WPI  curriculum,  but  she  says  she  has  never 
regretted  the  decision.  Certain  parts  of  her 
Plan  experience  stand  out  in  her  memory. 
"My  MOP  required  a  fair  amount  of  elec- 
tron microscopy,  and  my  project  team  had 
to  learn  on  the  fly,"  she  says.  "We  got  a  lot 
ot  positive  reinforcement  as  we  learned 
these  new  skills,  mostly  due  to  the  one-on- 
one  interaction  with  the  faculty  that  WPI 
provides.  The  MQP  research  work  sets  up 
a  structure  that  is  nonstructured.  It  teaches 
you  that  the  boundaries  of  what's  required 
to  do  a  task  are  not  predetermined.  That's 
an  important  lesson." 


20 


October  1996 


moaannnm 


THE     PLAN     AT     25 


Glen  Yee  74 


By  Bonnie  Gelbwasser 

The  impact  of  the  WP1  Plan  has 
extended  far  beyond  the  classroom 
for  Hong  Kong  businessman  (den 
Yee.  As  one  of  the  first  students  to  enroll 
under  the  Plan,  which  was  optional  during 
its  first  few  years,  Yee  learned  discipline  and 
important  lessons  about  dealing  with  uncer- 
tainty and  taking  risks — tools  he  used  to 
move  into  uncharted  territory  in  his  life  and 
career. 

Yee  was  born  in  China  and  emi- 
grated with  his  family  to  Cleveland, 
Ohio,  where  he  attended  high 
school.  "I  was  stronger  in  math 
and  the  sciences  because  I  had  not 
entirely  grown  up  in  the  United 
States  and  my  English  was  not  up 
to  speed,"  he  says.  "I  was  interest- 
ed in  a  small  engineering  school 
and  was  accepted  by  Rensse 
laer  and  Rose-I  lulman.  But 
I  was  struck  by  WPI.  It 
was  smaller  than  Rensse- 
laer and  I  was  always 
interested  in  New  Eng- 
land. I  thought  it  might 
be  an  exciting  place  to 
spend  a  few  years." 

Yee  says  he  was 
attracted  to  the  flexi- 
bility of  the  Plan,  which 
seemed  a  welcome  con- 
trast to  the  rigidity  of 
WPI's  traditional  program. 
"I  knew  that  if  I  chose  the 
Plan  I  would  not  have  to  take 
every  required  ME  course.  I 
wasn't  even  sure  I  liked  mechanical 
engineering." 

For  his  IQP,  Yee,  with  two  other 
students,  worked  with  the  research  and 
development  staff  of  American  Optical  to 
determine  how  best  to  tit  lenses  into  eye- 
glass frames.  "Our  objective  was  to  design  a 
measuring  method  that  could  be  digitized 
for  computer  input,"  he  says.  "We  did 
devise  a  fairly  scientific  way  of  measuring 
how  the  many  three-dimensional  curves  in 
the  lenses  fit  into  frames." 

His  MQP  focused  on  fiberglass-rein- 
forced materials.  "There  were  few  publica- 
tions and  less  than  a  handful  of  books  on  the 
topic,"  he  recalls.  "WPI  had  a  machine  shop 
ami  we  got  help  to  do  some  of  the  molds. 
We  tried  to  quantitatively  analyze  the  physi- 


cal performance  of  different  materials  and 
orientations  of  the  fiber-reinforcing  material 
and  their  possible  applications.  The  bound- 
aries of  these  projects  were  often  not  clear. 
They  served  as  lessons  in  dealing  with  un- 
certainty. We  also  learned  to  work  with  oth- 
er people  and  to  push  each  other  to  achicv  e 
the  desired  results.  The  Plan  gives  you  the 
chance  to  develop  people  skills  early  on." 


Vees  now  have  two  sons.  Nicholas,  17,  and 
Curtis,  15,  who  attend  boarding  schools  in 
Connecticut. 

"In  1  long  Kohl;.  I  was  responsible  for 
financial  evaluations  of  various  joint  ventures 
and  acquisitions  in  the  region,"  he  says.  "I!\ 
1W4,  Continental  Can  successfully  estab- 
lished several  operations  and  I  was  appointed 
commercial  director  for  Continental  Can 
After  he  completed  his  bachelor's  degree     Hong  Kong  Ltd.  In  1986  I  was  promoted  to 


in  mechanical  engineering,  Yee  joined  GE's 
Technical  Marketing  Program  and  com- 
pleted four  assignments  in  tour  locations. 
Toward  the  end  of  this  period,  he  became 
interested  in  the  business  and  commercial 


where  he  completed  his 
M.B.A. 


deputy  managing  director,  responsible  for 
business  development  in  China;  three  years 
later  I  was  named  managing  director." 

In  1992  Yee  left  Continental  Can  to  form 
his  own  start-up  company,  Pacific  ( )an  Co. 
side  of  engineering.  He  left  GE  to     "The  average  American  consumes  400  cans 
attend  Columbia  University,         of  beverages  per  year,"  he  says.  "In  Hong 

Kong,  that  number  is  I  30.  I  saw  an  opportu- 
nity to  develop  the  beverage  can  market  in 
China,  where  rapid  growth  was  certain  to 
raise  the  current  annual  con- 
sumption rate  of  four 
cans  per  person.  We 
j  specialize  in  aluminum 
soda  cans.  There  are 
tour  major  beverage 
companies  in  China: 
Coca  Cola,  Pepsi  Cola, 
Jianlibao,  a  famous 
Chinese  orange  soda, 
-  and  the  internation- 
ally known  Tsingtao 
Beer.  Several  other 
local  companies  are  all 
trying  to  develop  a  posi- 
tion in  China. 

"In  1993,  Conta- 


in 1976  he  married  the  former  Amy 
Lee,  a  Hong  Kong  student  he  met  during 
his  senior  year  while  she  was  attending  Sim- 
mons College  in  Boston.  In  1977  he  joined 
Continental  Can  Co.  in  Stamford,  Conn.,  as 
a  corporate  finance  analyst  in  international 
finance  at  the  company's  headquarters.  He 
remained  in  the  U.S.  for  approximately  two 
years  until  the  company  opened  an  Asian 


|  i     nental  Can  Europe 

jgggfo;     Inc.  invested  in  Pacif- 


ic Can  and  became 
our  strategic  partner.  As 
CEO  of  my  own  company,  I 
have  the  opportunity  to  devel- 
*>    op  new  markets  and  grow  with  the 
Chinese  beverage  market.  This 
more  entrepreneurial  position  is  a  natural 
extension  of  my  professional  career.  Today, 
Pacific  Can  operates  five  joint-venture 
plants  and  is  one  of  the  four  multinational^ 
linked  major  can  manufacturers  in  China." 
Yee  says  the  skills  he  gained  through  the 
Plan  have  helped  him  build  his  successful 
career  in  Hong  Kong.  "The  Plan  required 
that  I  'think  outside  of  the  box'  quite  often," 
he  says.  "Because  of  that,  I  feel  I'm  better 
equipped  to  deal  with  flexibilitv,  uncertainty 


Pacific  Office  in  Hong  Kong. 

"I  was  fortunate  enough  to  be  promoted  and  nebulousness.  My  project  experience 

to  regional  finance  manager,"  he  says.  "I  was  made  me  comfortable  with  uncertainty  and 

happy  to  return  to  Hong  Kong,  where  I  had  gave  me  courage  to  take  up  challenges.  That 

relatives  and  where  Amy's  family  was."  The  has  helped  me  a  great  deal  since  graduation." 


WTT  Journal 


:i 


TEN      LIVES     CHANGED 


Jen  Andersen  '75 


by  Roger  n.  perry  Jr.  '45 

When  I  entered  WPI  in  1971, 
I  already  knew  I  wanted  to 
become  a  lawyer,"  says  Jon 
Anderson  of  Montpelier,  Vt.  Now  a  partner 
in  one  of  the  10  largest  law  firms  in  the 
state,  Anderson  was  in  the  first  class  of 
freshmen  to  study  under  the  WPI  Plan. 

Anderson  says  it  was  the  Plan  and  his 
interest  in  studying  engineering  that  drew 
him  to  WPI.  "I  interviewed  several  lawyers 
who  said  that  every  engineer  they'd  ever 
known  who'd  gone  on  to  law  school  was  a 
darned  good  lawyer.  My  parents  also  liked 
the  idea  of  my  having  an  engineering  back- 
ground, and  my  brother  graduated  in  the 
Class  of  1968.  My  dad,  a  guidance  coun- 
selor, had  heard  about  some  interesting  cur- 
riculum changes  WPI  was  making.  We 
came  for  a  visit  and  I  liked  what  I  saw. 

"I  don't  think  I  would  have  gone  to — or 
stayed  at — WPI  but  for  the  Plan.  It  was  the 
way  I  wanted  to  learn.  As  time  has  gone  by, 
I  realize  that  I  learn  differently  from  other 
people.  I  learn  by  immersing  myself  in 
something,  not  really  understanding  it  very 
well  at  first.  Then  I  put  it  all  together.  The 
Plan  seemed  tailor-made  for  me." 

Anderson  majored  in 
chemical  engineering  and 
used  his  projects  to  develop  his 
knowledge  of  the  law.  "I  did  my  IQP  on 
the  Watergate  hearings,  watching  just 
about  every  hour  of  the  proceedings 
on  television,"  he  says.  "It  was 
great  for  a  future  lawyer  to 
see  government  trying  to 
regulate  a  technical 
issue,  in  this  case  the 
wiretapping  law,  and 
then  hearing  people  talk 
about  why  they  thought 
their  personal  ethics  entitled 
them  to  step  outside  the  law." 

He  explored  the  relationship 
between  U.S.  and  Russian  foreign 
policy  for  his  Sufficiency.  "I'll  always 
remember  my  advisor,  Professor 
John  Zeugner,  saying,  'With  your 
grades,  people  will  understand 
that  you  know  what  you  are 
doing  as  far  as  science  goes.  We 
need  to  do  something  that 
tells  people  you  understand 
history  and  the  humanities." 

As  a  result  of  that  discussion,  Anderson 


published  a  paper,  "Royall  Tyler's  Reaction 
to  Slavery  in  the  South,"  in  Vermont  History. 
He  informed  even7  law  school  to  which  he'd 
applied  about  the  publication.  He  says  he 
likes  to  think  the  article  played  a  role  in  his 
acceptance  to  Yale  Law  School,  his  first 
choice.  While  a  law  student,  he  published 
a  note  in  the  Columbia  Journal  of  Environ- 
mental Law  on  the  1976  ruling  by  Depart- 
ment of  Transportation  Secretary  William 
Coleman  to  allow  the  Concorde  to  land  in 
the  United  States  despite  concerns  about 
potential  harmful  effects  on  the  ozone  layer. 
He  says  he  used  his  engineering  background 
to  evaluate  the  scientific  data  that  had  sup- 
ported that  decision.  "Without  my  WPI 
education,  I  would  have  had  no  way  of 
understanding  all  this,"  he  says. 

After  law  school,  Anderson  was  accepted 
as  a  law  clerk  by  a  highly  respected  federal 
judge  in  Wilmington,  Del.  "During  my  two 
years  as  his  clerk,"  he  says,  "the  judge  decid- 
ed several  particularly  noteworthy  cases 
involving  chemical  compounds,  including 
the  patent  for  crystallized  polypropylene. 
Needless  to  say,  this  challenged  my  WPI 
background." 

After  that  experience,  he 
joined  a  Vermont  law  firm 
that  wanted  him  to  do  public 
utility  work.  This  later 
led  to  a  position 


with  the  Vermont  Public  Service  Depart- 
ment, where  he  represented  rate  payers  in 
public  hearings.  "In  1985,  Mike  Burak,  a 
former  colleague  at  the  PSB,  invited  me  to 
join  him,"  he  says.  "Initially,  we  were  affili- 
ated with  a  firm  in  Boston,  but  in  1990  we 
separated  from  them  and  recapitalized, 
forming  Burak  and  Anderson.  We  now  have 
nine  lawyers.  That  may  not  seem  large  by 
big  city  standards,  but  in  Vermont  that's  a 
large  firm."  Anderson  specializes  in  environ- 
mental law. 

"Starting  a  firm  and  building  a  practice 
from  scratch  is  not  something  you  learn  in 
law  school,"  he  says.  "I  had  to  read  a  lot 
about  the  business  of  law,  especially  market- 
ing, and  approach  it  just  as  I  did  projects 
back  at  WPI." 

Anderson  has  played  a  role  in  the  politi- 
cal life  of  Vermont.  He  served  as  interim 
legal  counsel  to  Governor  Madeleine  Kunin 
and  for  eight  years  was  an  elected  alderman 
in  Montpelier.  He  also  served,  by  guber- 
natorial appointment,  as  the  chairmen  of 
Vermont's  Blue  Ribbon  Task  Force  on  Haz- 
ardous Waste.  Today  he  is  chairman  of  the 
Vermont  Bar  Association's  Environmental 
Law  Committee,  chairman  of  Mont- 
pelier's  Travel  Information  Council, 
and  a  member  of  the  board  of  the 
Central  Vermont  Chamber  of 
Commerce. 

Anderson's  wife,  Betsy,  was 
deputy  tax  commissioner  under 
Governor  Kunin.  When  it 
became  clear  that  a  new  governor 
would  bring  in  his  own  staff,  he 
and  Betsy  decided  to  create  a 
business  she  could  run  from 
home.  "We  started  Betsy's 
Bed  &  Breakfast  in  a  house 
we  bought  in  Montpelier," 
he  says.  "We 
opened  with 
three  rooms  and 
we  now  have 
eight,  with  space 
to  go  up  to  1 0  or  12. 

"When  we  first  saw 
the  building,  it  needed 
extensive  renovation.  I 
really  like  historic  preser- 
vation, and  if  I'd  been  any- 
thing but  a  lawyer,  I  probably 
would  have  been  an  architect. 
I  did  the  general  contracting  and 
I  put  in  some  sweat  equity,  too. 
Not  only  did  I  learn  about 
home  building  in  WPI's  first 
Intersession,  when  I  took 


72 


OCTOBER  1996 


Professor  Ray  Hagglund's  short  course,  but 
opening  the  B&B  was  really  another  project. 
( )nce  again,  WPI's  project-hased  education 
taught  me  how  to  learn." 


Virginia 
Giordano 
FitzPatrick 
75 


THE     PLAN     AT     25 


for  Procter  &  Gamble  as  young  graduates. 
"John  then  spent  10  years 
at  Exxon  in  project  man- 
agement, and  his  career 


BY  RUTH  TRASK 

The  WPI  Plan  gave  me 
the  confidence  to 
stand  up  for  what  I 
believe  and  to  not  be  afraid  to 
take  risks,"  says  Virginia  Gior- 
dano FitzPatrick,  president  of 
CALC/Canterbury  Corp.,  a 
personal  computer 
training  company 
headquartered  in 
Morristown,  N.J. 
"This  extended  to 

my  disagreeing  with    £".""--.-■: „  ■ „_    ■,-  : 

my  peers  and 
defending  my  position  whenever  I  believed 
my  ideas  were  the  way  to  go.  Somehow,  this 
tactic  worked,  especially  when  I  made  sug- 
gestions that  had  merit." 

Evidently  most  of  FitzPatrick's  sugges- 
tions had  merit.  She  is  now  holding  the 
reins  of  a  company  that  serves  more  than 
3,Q00  clients  from  six  locations  in  New  York 
City  and  northern  New  Jersey,  making  it 
the  largest  PC  trainer  in  the  Manhattan 
metro  area. 

How  did  she  become  a  "guru"  of  PC 
training?  FitzPatrick  attributes  much  of  her 
success  to  what  she  learned  through  the 
WPI  Plan.  She  was  first  drawn  to  the  Plan 
because  of  its  technical  nature  and  its 
emphasis  on  projects.  Working  on  projects 
forced  her  to  develop  the  organizational  and 
analytical  skills  that  became  the  building 
blocks  of  her  career. 

For  FitzPatrick,  the  road  to  the  presi- 
dent's chair  has  been  an  around-the-world 
odyssey.  She  is  married  to  John  FitzPatrick 
'75,  a  civil  engineer  who  owns  and  operates 
his  own  business,  General  Business  Services, 
in  Morris  Plains.  They  both  worked  briefly 


back  again,"  she  says.  "Our  daughter  Cara, 
16,  was  born  in  the  U.S.:  our  son,  Joey,  15, 
was  born  in  England;  and  we  adopted  our 
daughter  Linda,  10,  while  we  were  in 
Colombia." 

Virginia  and  John  enrolled  at  WPI  just 
after  the  Plan  had  been  introduced.  In  those 
inaugural  years,  students  were  allowed  to 
choose  whether  or  not  they  wanted  to  study 
under  the  university's  still  experimental 
undergraduate  program.  John  chose  WPI's 
conventional,  pre-Plan  curriculum.  "He's  a 
traditionalist  and  I'm  more  the  free-wheel- 
ing type,"  she  says.  "We  were  fortunate  that 
WPI  offered  each  of  us  a  curriculum  so  well 
tailored  to  our  needs." 

In  the  midst  of  her  world  travels,  Fitz- 
Patrick spent  nine  years  as  a  systems  repre- 
sentative for  Control  Data  Corp.  She  com- 
pleted research  and  development  work  in 
computer-aided  design  that  was  used  by  the 
company  worldwide.  Back  in  New  Jersey, 
she  joined  Computer  Applications  Learning 
Center  (now  CALC/Canterbury)  in  1987  as 
one  of  the  company's  first  part-time  instruc- 
tors; in  less  than  a  decade  she  would  rise  to 


the  presidency  of  the  company.  Along  the 
way,  she  has  held  nearly  every  position  at 
CALC. 

As  an  instructor  and  later  as 
lirector  of  training,  she  developed 
instructional  methods  that  have 
been  adopted  as  industry  stan- 
dards. "One  of  my  goals  was  to 
standardize  training  materials,"  she 
says.  "Regardless  of  the  software  or 
the  class,  I  wanted  all  training  man- 
uals to  have  the  same  style,  lay- 
out and  structure.  Today,  all 
CALC's  training  manuals 
adhere  to  my  original 
courseware  specifications." 

In  1994,  CALC  was 
purchased  by  Canterbury 
Corporate  Services,  which 
develops  a  wide  range  of 
business-oriented  training 
programs;  FitzPatrick  was 
named  president  of  the 
CALC/Canterbury  division. 
Since  then  she  has  concen- 
trated on  enhancing  the  com- 
pany's service  to  its  clients,  which 
include  AT&T,  Sandoz  and 
Prudential.  For  example,  CALC  has 
opened  PC  training  centers  in  the  bus- 
iest business  sections  of  Manhattan  so  staff 
members  can  have  easy  access  to  courses. 
FitzPatrick  says  her  goals  for  CALC 
include  opening  additional  training  centers 
and  expanding  into  distance  learning  and 
other  leading-edge  training  techniques. 
"Within  five  years,  I'd  like  to  see  CALC  ful- 
ly involved  in  alternative  learning  methods 
and  offering  additional  services  and  training 
in  all  areas  of  business  learning." 

FitzPatrick  says  she  calls  on  her  WPI 
education  often  as  she  manages  the  compa- 
ny. "Sometimes  it's  rough  getting  points 
across  to  my  colleagues  and  employees  who 
do  not  have  engineering  backgrounds  and 
project  experience,"  she  says.  "They  don't 
see  things  that  someone  with  technical 
knowledge  sees.  To  help  them  think  things 
through,  I  often  give  members  of  my  staff 
projects  to  carry  out,  not  unlike  the  projects 
I  did  at  WPI."' 

FitzPatrick  says  her  WPI  education  pre- 
pared her  well  for  the  business  world.  She 
says  she  also  benefited  from  the  university's 
lopsided  male-female  ratio.  Being  in  a 
decided  minority  "wasn't  necessarily  a  bad 
thing,"  she  says.  "When  I  started  my  career, 
I  often  found  myself  in  a  similar  minority'.  I 
received  little  respect  or  appreciation  as  a 
career  woman,  especially  outside  of  the  New 


WPI  JOURNAL 


23 


TEN      LIVES     CHANGED 


York-New  Jersey  area.  Male  colleagues 
usually  didn't  take  me  seriously  until  they 
learned  I  held  a  degree  from  WPI.  WPI  has 
a  good  reputation  in  the  business  world. 
That  reputation  has  helped  me  throughout 
my  career." 

FitzPatrick  says  her  husband's  non-Plan 
education  has  helped  him  advance  to  head 
his  own  company.  "We've  been  through  two 
10-year  plans,"  she  says.  "For  the  first  10 
years,  John's  career  was  primary  and  I  fol- 
lowed him.  For  the  second  10  years,  John 
was  the  flexible  one  and  I  developed  my 
career  at  CALC.  We  just  celebrated  our 
20th  wedding  anniversary — the  next  10 
years  we  plan  to  share!" 


Steven  TV. 
Harvey  '75 

By  Alan  Earles 

Once  I'd  been  at  WPI 
for  a  short  time  I  real- 
ized I  didn't  want  to  be 
a  narrowly  focused  technolo- 
gist," says  Steven  W.  Harvey. 
Fortunately,  the  flexibility  of  the 
Plan  and  its  emphasis  on  individual 
choice — the  reasons  Harvey  chose 
WPI — let  him  chart  his  own  course. 

While  doing  paid  and  volunteer  work 
with  inner  city  youth  as  a  teenager,  Harvey 
became  interested  in  city  planning.  Working 
within  the  urban  planning  program  in 
WPI's  Civil  Engineering  Department,  he- 
developed  his  own  major  in  humanities  and 
technology.  For  his  Interactive  Qualifying 
Project,  he  completed  an  internship  at  the 
Central  Transportation  Planning  Staff,  an 
arm  of  Greater  Boston's  Metropolitan  Area 
Planning  Council. 

"That  experience  focused  my  interest  on 
the  process  by  which  cities  operate,"  he  says. 
It  also  showed  him  another  element  of  the 
reality  of  reshaping  a  city:  "Underneath  it 
all  there  was  often  a  complicated  financial 
issue,"  he  says.  "That  was  brand  new  to  me." 

After  graduation,  Harvey  took  "an 
immediate  left  turn,  landing  a  job  at 
Rounder  Records  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  At 
the  recording  industry  start-up,  he  found 
ways  to  apply  his  WPI  education.  As  a  small, 
closely  held  company,  Rounder  was  up 
against  stiff  competition.  At  the  time,  its  dis- 
tribution arm  was  helping  to  support  the 


fledgling  recording  operations,  but  its  geo- 
graphic reach  was  limited.  "It  was  purely 
domestic  when  I  started,"  he  says.  "As  distri- 
bution manager,  I  built  international  distrib- 
ution, picked  up  some  record  labels,  and 
increased  sales." 

But  the  positive  experiences  he'd  had 
with  the  Plan  kept  tugging  at  him,  so  in 
1979  he  moved  back  to  the 
public  sector,  taking 
a  job  as  a  program 
manager  with 
the 


Massachusetts  Medicaid  Pro- 
gram. "If  I  was  going  to  make  a 
career  in  government,"  he  says,  "I  knew  I 
would  need  training,  but  first  I  wanted  to 
find  out  if  it  was  really  right  for  me."  In 
short  order,  he  was  implementing  one  of  the 
first  managed-care  programs  in  the  nation 
for  low-income  families  and  setting  up  two 
demonstration  projects  based  in  neighbor- 
hood health  centers. 

"I  saw — even  more  clearly — how  crucial 
the  financial  side  is  in  any  public  project," 
he  says.  It  also  became  clear  how  few  indi- 
viduals in  the  public  sector  were  equipped  to 
understand  and  manage  complex  financial 
issues.  Harvey  decided  to  become  one  of 
them,  enrolling  in  an  M.B.A.  program  at 
the  Wharton  School  of  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania. 

While  there,  he  had  the  opportunity 
to  consult  for  Philadelphia's  director  of 
finance.  "I  helped  put  together  bond  issues 
and  bond  deals — my  first  exposure  to  the 
municipal  bond  market,"  he  says.  The  expe- 


rience was  an  eye-opener — here  was  a  chal- 
lenging area,  poorly  understood  by  many  in 
government,  yet  crucial  to  both  day-to-day 
operations  and  long-term  programs. 

In  1983,  Harvey  joined  Standard  & 
Poor's  Corp.  as  a  municipal  ratings  officer. 
Three  years  later  he  moved  over  to  the 
investment  side  of  municipal  finance  when 
he  joined  Fidelity  Investments,  a  mutual 
funds  giant  with  extensive  involvement 
in  municipal  instruments.  For  six  years, 
he  honed  his  skills,  leading  the  research 
effort  on  all  the  tax-exempt  health  care 
bonds  in  Fidelity's  funds.  He  also 
structured  $95  million  in  directly 
placed  health  care  securities  and 
restructured  a  $12  million  hospital 
bond  holding  and  a  $3 1  million 
hotel  financing. 

In  1993,  he  graduated  to 
portfolio  manager  at  Fidelity. 
Today  he  manages  five  muni- 
cipal bond  portfolios  totaling 
$1.9  billion,  including  the 
$1.1  billion  xMassachusetts 
Tax-Free  Bond  Fund.  Like 
other  fund  managers,  he  is 
captain  of  his  own  ship  on  a 
sea  that  can  often  turn  rough. 
W    Keeping  his  eye  on  the  pulse  of 
'     global  financial  markets  and  on 

the  grassroots  political  forces  that 
can  upend  funding  programs,  he 
must  devise  investment  strategies 
and  supervise  active  trading  tactics 
within  his  portfolio.  He  notes  with  pride 
that  his  funds  have  bested  80  percent  of  his 
competitors'  during  his  tenure. 

His  funds  hold  bonds  that  finance  some 
of  the  country's  largest  construction  pro- 
jects, including  the  cleanup  of  Boston  har- 
bor and  that  city's  "Big  Dig."  Harvey  says, 
"Having  an  understanding  of  the  engineer- 
ing complexity  of  these  mammoth  projects 
helps  me  identify  the  best  investment  ideas." 

But  the  real  edge  he  gained  from  his 
WPI  education  comes  from  "having  a  tech- 
nical background  combined  with  a  humanis- 
tic perspective."  As  a  portfolio  manager, 
Harvey  must  design  and  present  marketing 
campaigns  for  brokers  and  retail  clients.  He 
is  also  called  upon  often  to  address  a  wide 
variety  of  groups  involved  in  the  bond  mar- 
ket. "The  attention  I  received  at  WPI  from 
the  humanities  faculty  sharpened  my  writing 
and  communication  skills  tremendously.  It 
has  served  me  well  throughout  my  career." 
The  thinking  skills  he  gained  as  a  WPI 
student  also  inform  Harvey's  day-to-day 
activities.  He  says  the  Plan  gave  him  a  tool- 


24 


October  1996 


»— "~«-*-~ 


IHUlWIUMlilMB 


kit  for  tackling  virtually  every  challenge  lie 
lias  faced  in  the  working  world.  "I  have  the 
ability  to  quickly  break  down  every  problem 
I  face  into  its  component  parts,"  he  says. 

And  as  if  that  were  not  enough  to  make 
him  think  often  of  his  alma  mater,  his  cur- 
rent job  provides  him  with  a  daily  reminder 
of  the  Plan.  "When  I  look  out  my  office 
window,  I  can  see  the  building  where  I  did 
most  of  my  IQP  work." 


Erie  Hak  '80 

by  Ray  Bert  '93 

Jf  you  asked  him,  Eric 
I  lahn  would  probably 
tell  you  he's  a  "pro- 
peller-head," that  he's 
been  one  ever  since  he 
was  a  kid  goofing 
around  with  his  first 
computer,  and  that 
in  one  way  or 
another,  he'll 
always  be  one. 
1  le'd  say  it 
for  two  reasons. 
First,  he  is  fully 
aware  of  his  status 
in  today's  society 
as  a  'computer 
geek',  one  of  those 
people  who  make 
their  living  roving  the 
world  of  code  and  net- 
works as  if  they  own  the 
place  (which  they  pretty  much 
do).  Second,  he'd  say  it  because  he  is 
the  most  self-effacing  former  CEO  you're 
likely  to  meet.  The  guy  who  once  described 
himself  as  "on  the  nerdy  end  of  nerd,"  is 
now,  at  age  36,  senior  vice  president  of 
enterprise  technologies  at  Netscape  Com- 
munications Corp.,  one  of  the  hottest, 
brightest  stars  in  the  computer  industry. 

The  WPI  Plan  was  designed  for  people 
like  Hahn — people  who  grab  the  system  and 
wring  out  every  last  drop  of  potential,  expe- 
rience and  insight  it  offers.  "The  Plan  and  I 
were  very-  compatible,"  Hahn  says.  "The  fact 
that  it  was  less  structured,  with  a  project 
focus,  worked  well  for  me." 

Much  of  what  he  learned  through  the 
Plan  has  been  borne  out  by  his  experience 
or  has  influenced  his  own  approach  to  the 
workplace.  "I've  never  gone  to  the  office 
Monday,  Wednesday  and  Friday  afternoon 


THE     PLAN      AT     25 


with  200  people  and  been  lectured  to,"  he 
s.ns.  "The  Plan's  student/advisor  model  is  a 
much  closer  representation  of  the  work- 
place, and  the  project  focus  is  much  more 
like  the  reality  of  business." 

When  1  lahn  graduated  from  WPI  in 
PASO,  he  took  a  job  with  Bolt,  Beranek  and 
Newman  (BBN),  a  computer  services  com- 
pany based  in  Cambridge,  Alass.  There  he 
helped  develop  ARPANET,  the  nationwide 

computer  network 
that  evolved 
into  the  Inter- 
net. After  tw  ( > 
years  he  was 
recruited  to 
help  get  the 


start-up 
Convergent 
echnologies 
off  the  ground.  He  be- 
came vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
the  server  products  division  before  depart- 
ing in  1990  for  cc:Mail,  where  he  was  vice 
president  of  engineering  and,  later,  general 


manager. 


Hahrfs  crowning  achievement  was  the 
founding  of  Collabra  Software  Inc.  in  1993. 
With  Hahn  as  president  and  CEO,  Collabra 
quickly  became  a  major  plaver  in  the  bur- 
geoning "groupware"  market.  Collabra 
ShareTM,  introduced  in  March  1994, 
captured  numerous  awards,  ranging  from 
Groupware  '94  Best  of  Show  to  PC  Maga- 
zine's Editor's  Choice  to  PC  Week's  Analyst's 
Choice.  The  product  led  to  Collabra's  selec- 
tion that  year  as  one  of  "25  Cool  Compa- 
nies" by  Fortune  magazine.  Hahn,  himself, 
was  honored  last  fall  by  WPI,  which  pre- 


sented him  with  its  Ichabod  Washburn 
Young  Uumni  Award  for  Professional 
Achievement.  Collabra  Software  Inc.  was 
acquired  by  Netscape  in  1995. 

I  lahn  made  the  most  of  his  time  at  WPI. 
Finding  the  WPI  computer  system  difficult 
to  use,  he  wrote  Hoti-  id  Survive  the  PDP-10, 
which  "was  required  reading  for  freshmen 
until  a  new  computer  system  was  installed," 
he  says.  He  co-authored  one  Major  Qualify- 
ing Project  in  his  first  year  and  did  a  second, 
solo  MOP  for  his  degree  requirement  later 
on.  He  accomplished  all  of  that  in  just  two 
and  a  half  years  on  campus. 

"  \t  WPI,  you're  much  more  successful  if 
you  can  manage  yourself— if  you  have  a  cer- 
tain amount  of  self-directedness,"  he  says. 
"That  translates  particularly  well  to  the  soft- 
ware industry,  where  you  have  to  be  able  to 
lay  out  and  organize  your  thinking  without  a 
lot  of  guidance  and  direct  supervision." 

Hahn  has  made  leaps  and  bounds  in  his 
career,  grabbing  for  new  challenges  whenever 
he  felt  a  need  to  grow  or  change.  And  vet 
with  all  of  his  success,  he  remains  a  propeller- 
head  whose  eyes  light  up  with  the  seemingly 
limitless  possibilities  of  the  technology.  "I 
just  love  computers,"  he  says.  "They're  the 
world's  best  blank  sheet  of  paper." 

Through  hard  work  and  his  love  of  the 
field,  Hahn  has  attained  good  measures  of 
wealth  and  fame,  yet  he  doesn't  have  to 
feign  the  ambivalence  he  projects  about  that 
aspect  of  his  life.  "I  feel  like  I've  done  all  the 
'formal'  career  things  that  I  want  to  do,"  he 
says.  "Now  I'm  at  a  place  in  my  life  and  my 
career  where  I  want  to  optimize  for  the 
things  that  bring  me  real  joy:  working  with 
technology  and  really  bright  people  and 
spending  more  time  with  my  family."  (Flahn 
and  his  wife,  Elaine,  have  two  sons:  Evan, 
four,  and  Jeremy,  born  this  summer.) 

What  does  Hahn  think  about  the  envi- 
ronment that  today's  graduates  entering  the 
computer  industry  face?  "I  really  feel  for  the 
kids  in  school  now,"  he  says,  "because  the 
market  is  changing  so  quickly  that  no  school 
can  really  keep  up.  So  the  important  thing 
for  students  is  to  become  well-rounded 
thinkers,  which  is  obviously  one  of  the  core 
tenets  of  the  Plan. 

"What  I  appreciate  most  about  my  expe- 
rience at  WPI  was  that  I  got  the  chance  to 
be  an  individual.  My  education  was,  to  a 
large  degree,  designed  by  me,  and  I  was 
responsible  for  it.  I  never  felt  like  just  some 
student  ID  number  marching  through  a 
process  to  get  to  a  finish  line.  There  were 
bumps  along  the  way  and  things  that  I  did 
that  were  weird  compared  to  most  people's 


WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


TEN      LIVES     CHANGED 


experience,  but  that's  part  of  what  made  my  Today  she  lives  out  that  message, 

education  my  own,  and  I  value  that  a  lot.  sometimes  giving  lectures  for  the  National 

The  Plan  took  a  chance  to  let  people  be  dif-  Science  Foundation  on  her  experiences  as  a 

ferent  and  that's  special — you  don't  get  that  physically  challenged  person  in  the  scientific 


everywhere." 

Elizabeth 
Mendez  86 

BY  JOAN  KILLOUGH-MILLER 

J'm  a  triple  threat,"  says 
Liz  Mendez  of  her  minority 
status  as  a  Hispanic,  a 
person  with  a  physical 
disability,  and  a  woman 
in  the  upper  echelons  of 
scientific  research. 
Mendez  is  a  postdoctoral 
fellow  in  the  Department 
of  Embryology  at  the 
Carnegie  Institution  of 
Washington,  located  on  the 
campus  of  Johns  Hopkins 
University  in  Baltimore.  Her 
current  interest  is  RNA  splic- 
ing and  processing.  Although 
she  can  joke  about  her  situation, 
she  takes  her  work  seriously  and 
lets  nothing  interfere  with  her  ability  to 
do  it  without  impediment. 

At  Rockefeller  University,  where  she 
earned  a  Ph.D.  in  cell  biology  in  1994,  she 
made  history  as  the  first  disabled  student  to 
graduate,  and  the  first  to  be  granted 
funds  for  a  technician  to  aid  her  with 
her  scientific  work.  She  shrugs  off  the 
distinction  and  explains  that,  ordinari- 
ly, a  laboratory  can  be  tailored  for  her 
use  by  lowering  tables  and  modifying  equip- 
ment so  she  can  reach  it  from  her  wheel- 
chair. In  this  case,  some  equipment  could 
not  be  adapted,  so  an  assistant  was  needed. 
"They  understood  the  need  for  this,"  she 
says.  "They  were  extremely  accommodating 
and  supportive." 

Born  with  spina  bifida — a  neural  tube 
birth  delect — Mendez  was  an  early  advocate 
for  handicapped  rights.  In  San  Juan,  where 
she  attended  high  school,  she  belonged  to  the 
Spina  Bifida  Association  of  Puerto  Rico,  and 
was  once  the  island's  Miss  Wheelchair.  "It 
gave  me  an  opportunity  to  put  forth  to  the 
general  population  that  not  all  handicapped 
people  are  older  or  lethargic;  many  are  active 
and  able  to  contribute,  if  given  the  chance." 


community.  "Because  of  my  background,  I 
have  become  a  vocal 
advocate  for  mak- 
ing institutions 
of  higher  learn- 
ing a  bit  more 
sensitive  to  the 
needs  ol  the 


physically  impaired. 
There  aren't  many  women  who  proceed 
down  this  path,  and  Hispanics  are  also 
severely  underrepresented." 

Mendez  also  sought  to  widen  the  path  for 
ethnic  minorities  in  the  sciences  by  imple- 
menting a  summer  program  at  Rockefeller 
University  that  brought  promising  minority 
high  school  students  into  the  lab  as  interns. 
Mendez  is  proud  of  her  role  in  the  program. 
Although  she  had  a  natural  facility  for  science 
and  knew  early  on  that  she  wanted  to  study 
biology,  she  says  she  had  no  one  to  emulate. 

She  was  one  of  the  first  handicapped 
students  to  attend  WPI,  at  a  time  when 
there  were  few  Hispanics  and  women  were 
still  relative  newcomers.  Rather  than  making 


an  issue  of  her  differences  or  using  them  as 
an  excuse,  Mendez  made  her  uniqueness  an 
integral  part  of  her  academic  program.  For 
her  Sufficiency  project,  she  translated  a 
classmate's  original  play  from  English  into 
Spanish.  For  her  IQP,  she  studied  handi- 
capped accessibility  at  four  local  colleges. 
"Some  buildings  at  WPI  were  totally  inac- 
cessible at  that  time,"  she  recalls.  "Others 
were  merely  difficult." 

She  shared  her  findings  with  college 
administrators.  When  she  felt  her  concerns 
were  not  being  taken  seriously,  she  took  the 
"Interactive"  part  of  her  IQP  liter- 
ally, having  able-bodied  admini- 
strators take  to  wheelchairs  to 
navigate  their  own  campuses. 
Mendez  did  her  MQP  in 
molecular  biology,  conducting 
jj      \     research  on  the  transport  of 
<\     small  nuclear  ribonucleic  pro- 
tein complexes  (snRNPs) 
across  the  nuclear  mem- 
branes of  cells.  The  process 
ensures  that  introns  (nontrans- 
latable  portions  of  RNA)  are 
"spliced"  from  the  coded 
sequence.  If  this  does  not 
occur,  certain  proteins  pro- 
duced by  the  cell  are  defective 
or  absent.  Although  a  link 
to  a  specific  disease  has 
not  yet  been  established, 
Mendez  says  it  is  still  a  hot  topic  among  cell 
biologists  and  remains  a  pet  interest  of  hers. 

The  WPI  Plan  provided  an  ideal  educa- 
tion for  a  self-directed  person  like  Mendez. 
"I  liked  the  freedom  to  plan  my  own  cur- 
riculum instead  of  having  a  set  of  courses 
imposed  on  me."  She  says  that  freedom  pre- 
pared her  well  for  graduate  study  at  Rocke- 
feller, where  students  are  expected  to  work 
independently. 

In  addition  to  preparing  her  academ- 
ically, Mendez  says  WPI  provided  good 
preparation  for  facing  life  as  a  triple  minor- 
ity. "I  was  fortunate  to  find  many  helpful, 
supportive  people,  including  members  of  the 
administration  and  professors  who  were  very 
giving  of  their  talent,  time  and  knowledge.  I 
found  no  hesitation  when  I  asked  for  a  ramp 
or  other  accommodation. 

"But  because  I  was  treated  in  such  a 
nondiscriminatory  way  while  I  was  at  WPI, 
it  made  me  a  bit  naive.  When  I  moved  on,  I 
didn't  expect  to  encounter  problems.  Still, 
my  experience  at  WPI  gave  me  the  confi- 
dence to  say,  'This  isn't  right,'  when  the 
issue  of  my  disability  or  my  being  Hispanic 
was  raised  as  a  concern.  I  found  I  could 


October  1996 


""""*"■""""'«—'" 


stand  up  on  my  own  and  say,  'Wait  a  min- 
ute, if  this  wasn't  an  issue  for  these  folks, 
why  should  it  be  an  issue  for  you?'" 


StdceyJ. 
Ccttcn  '90 

BY  JOAN  KILLOUGH-MILLER 

Fresh  out  of  high  school,  Stacey  Cotton 
dreamed  of  becoming  an  astronaut 
and  designing  the  spaceships  of  the 
future.  A  strong  student  who  enjoyed  mathe- 
matics and  science,  she  was  steered  toward 
engineering,  although  she  knew  little  of  the 
field.  She  chose  WPI  for  its  top-notch  repu- 
tation and  its  small  size. 

The  young  woman  from  Nor- 
ton, Mass.,  daughter  of  a  nurse  and 
a  plumber,  didn't  know  much  about 
how  one  set  out  to  become  an  astro- 
naut. At  WPI  she  found  people  who 
could  point  her  in  the  right  direction.  She 
joined  the  Air  Force  ROTC  and  selected 
aeronautical  engineering  as  her  major; 
she  excelled  in  aerospace  science  courses, 
maintaining  an  A  average  in  her  major. 
Her  academic  performance  and  outstanding 
leadership  qualities  won  her  membership  in 
three  honor  societies,  numerous  awards,  and 
a  ranking  as  one  of  the  top  five  Air  Force 
ROTC  cadets  in  the  country. 

After  four  years  at  WPI,  Cotton  was 
well  on  the  way  to  fulfilling  her  dreams.  She 
graduated  with  the  gold  bars  of  a  second 
lieutenant  on  her  sleeve,  and  tuition  for 
graduate  school  in  her  pocket  from  an 
impressive  number  of  military  and  athletic- 
scholarships.  She  earned  a  master's  degree 
in  aeronautical  and  astronautical  engineer- 
ing at  Stanford  University,  working  with  a 
team  that  published  research  looking  toward 
a  joint  U.S.-U.S.S.R.  mission  to  Mars. 
During  a  summer  internship  at  the 
USAF  Test  Pilot  School  at  Edwards  Air 
Force  Base,  Cotton  got  "totally  hooked"  on 
flying.  She  applied  for  pilot  training,  then 
worked  for  two  years  at  Rome  Laboratory  in 
upstate  New  York.  She  made  captain  in 
1994  and  earned  her  pilot's  wings  in  1995. 
To  her  delight,  she  was  assigned  to  fly  the 
F-15C,  a  single-seat  fighter  considered 
superior  to  anything  in  the  sky.  Stacey  Cot- 


THE     PLAN     AT     25 


Last  year  a  medical  problem  grounded 
the  young  pilot  and  sidetracked  her  hopes 
of  going  into  orbit.  But  Cotton's  career  has 
taken  a  new  direction.  As  a  public  affairs 
officer,  she  reaches  out  to  America's  youth 
and  inspires  them  to  careers  in  aeronautics 
and  the  military.  She  is  most  in  her  element 
when  organizing  educational  programs  and 
career  days  for  middle  school  and  high 
school  students. 

The  WPI  Plan  offered  opportunities 
to  this  aspiring  astronaut  that  would  not 
appear  in  the  catalog  of  any  other  college,     /-j 
She  did  her  MQP  at  NASA  Lewis 


Cations  before  the  president  and  board  of 
directors.  "It  builds  your  confidence  and  lets 
you  know  you're  going  to  be  ready  when 
you  get  out  of  college.  I  think  that's  really 
important. 

"The  IQP  was  the  first  time  I  worked 
with  a  small  group  on  such  a  big  project  on 
a  day-to-day  basis.  It 
taught  me  how  to  deal 
with  people,  even 
when  difficulties 
come  up.  I  don't 
*-,     know  if  students 
<  cs\    realize  it  s 

going  to  be  like 
that  when  they 
get  out  in  the 
real  world. 


Research 
Center  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio. 
The  project,  called 
"Microwave  Powered 
Lunar  Rover:  Feasibility 
Study,"  investigated  the  possibili- 
ty of  using  satellites  to  relay  power  to  a 
remote  module  to  explore  the  surface  of 
the  moon. 

Her  IQP  gave  her  the  opportunity  to  go 
abroad  for  the  first  time  in  her  life.  Working 
at  the  London  headquarters  of  Ferranti 
International,  an  electronics  and  computer 
firm,  her  team  explored  the  feasibility  of 
establishing  local  work  sites  where  employ- 
ees could  work  by  computer  and  avoid  dri- 
ving in  London's  horrendous  rush-hour 
traffic.  Cotton  says  the  project  was  a  terrific 
confidence  builder. 

"When  you're  20  years  old,  going  over- 
seas, working  in  a  major  corporation  right 
beside  the  president,  executing  his  project... 


You 
can't  get 
away  from 
it — you're  always 
working  with  people, 
no  matter  what  job  you're  in.  I  use  those 
skills  everyday  as  an  officer." 

The  WPI  curriculum  puts  a  lot  of 
responsibility  on  its  students,  but  Cotton 
says  those  challenges  helped  her  develop 
self-reliance.  "WPI  treats  you  like  an  adult. 
The  responsibility  for  the  project  rests  on 
the  student,  not  the  professor.  My  profes- 
sors were  always  there  for  guidance  and 
help.  But  the  professor  doesn't  just  sit  you 
down  and  tell  you  what  to  do.  You  have  to 
come  up  with  your  own  ideas,  and  work  out 
your  own  game  plan." 

Perhaps  the  best  learning  experiences 
come  about  when  things  don't  go  as  expect- 
ed. When  progress  on  a  project  runs  into  a 


that  was  cool."  The  project  called  for  an 

ton  was  flying  high,  on  her  way  to  becoming     array  of  interpersonal  skills — from  the  poise  brick  wall,  says  Cotton,  it's  up  to  the  student 

the  third  woman  in  the  country  to  go  into  to  conduct  door-to-door  and  telephone  sur-  to  find  a  way  around  it.  "I  think  the  WPI 

F-15C  training.  veys,  to  the  self-assurance  to  make  presen-  Plan  has  a  unique  way  of  teaching  you  how 


WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


TEN      LIVES     CHANGED 


to  problem-solve  and  think  in  a  logical  way. 
You  learn  how  to  stop  for  a  second,  analyze 
the  problem,  come  up  with  Plan  B,  and  go 
for  it." 

So  when  a  medical  problem  threw  a 
roadblock  in  Cotton's  career  path,  she  was 
able  to  chart  a  new  course.  Although  she  is 
aware  that  the  Air  Force  is  strict  about  the 
physical  condition  of  its  pilots,  she  hopes  to 
fly  again.  But  if  that  is  not  possible,  she 
wants  to  stay  in  public  affairs.  Accepting  that 
reality  was  one  of  the  hardest  things  she's 
had  to  deal  with. 

"Dreams  die  hard,"  she  says. 
"But  there  are  other  dreams.  It's 


-■  V 

)ust  a  matter  or  latching  on     _  4 s"_«ss5ij     1. 


Indeed,  the  wheelbarrow-based  collection 
system  rarely  manages  to  cover  the  entire 
area  more  than  a  few  times  a  year.  As  a  con- 
sequence, trash  and  refuse  often  block  canals 
and  drainage  systems,  contaminating  water 
sources  and  providing  a  home  for  rats,  cock- 
roaches and  other  vermin. 

Anderson  and  Davis  put  their  analytical 
skills  to  work  seeking  ways  to  improve  exist- 
ing trash  collection  patterns,  and  started  a 
community  education  program  to  raise 

awareness  of  the 
dangers  of 

111011 


to  a  new  one. 


J  J  J 


A 


Jascn  S. 
Andersen  '95 


By  Alan  Earles 

Hailing  from  Harry 
Truman's  hometown  of 
Independence,  Mo.,  Jason 
Anderson  began  mastering  grown-up 
technology  at  an  early  age.  It  wasn't 
long  after  he  learned  to  read  that  he 
taught  himself  to  write  programs  in 
BASIC  on  the  Timex/Sinclair  1000,  one 
of  the  earliest  personal  computers.  He  sold 
his  first  program,  a  space  strategy  game, 
when  he  was  12,  and  later  wrote  software 
for  his  school  district  to  help  students  learn 
mathematics.  "Some  of  it  is  still  in  use," 
he  says. 

Anderson,  the  valedictorian  for  his  high 
school  class,  says  the  chance  to  roll  up  his 
sleeves  and  tackle  real-world  engineering 
challenges  were  part  of  what  attracted  him 
to  WPI.  But  it  was  the  opportunity  to  pur- 
sue an  Interactive  Qualifying  Project  (IQP) 
beyond  WPI's  campus  that  truly  sold  him 
on  the  WPI  Plan.  In  fact,  his  IQP  would 
take  him  a  long  way  from  the  world  he 
knew — half  a  world  away,  to  the  slums  of 
Klong  Toey,  a  section  of  Bangkok.  Along 
with  Sandra  Davis  '95,  he  spent  seven  weeks 
seeking  solutions  to  the  trash  and  pollution 
problems  that  degrade  the  quality  of  life  for 
Bangkok's  most  impoverished  residents. 

Because  trash  collection  in  Klong  Toey 
is  so  infrequent  and  trash  collectors  them- 
selves so  poorly  paid,  wastes  tend  to  accu- 
mulate quickly  and  remain  for  long  periods. 


improper 

garbage  and  trash 

disposal.  Finally,  the  two  offered  suggestions 

for  low-cost  steps  to  improve  sanitation,  such 

as  acquiring  more  trash  barrels  and  fencing 

off  disposal  areas. 

"Spending  time  in  the  slums  was  truly 
an  eye-opening  experience,"  he  says.  "Trav- 
eling to  Bangkok  to  complete  a  project  gave 
me  a  new  perspective  on  the  world.  It  let  me 
spread  my  wings  and  forced  me  to  adapt  to 
and  embrace  another  culture." 

Today,  Anderson  puts  the  skills  he 
learned  in  Bangkok  to  use  in  the  fast-paced 
world  of  software  development.  Employed 
since  graduation  at  Vivid  Technologies  Inc. 
in  Woburn,  Mass.,  a  pioneer  in  advanced 
airport  security  systems,  he  has  been  part  of 
the  staff  responsible  for  improvements  to 
existing  products  and  for  the  high-level 
design  of  new  products. 


Vivid's  main  product  is  an  X-ray  system 
with  a  high-performance,  parallel-processing 
computer  capable  of  analyzing  1,500  items  of 
luggage  an  hour.  Anderson  says  the  comput- 
er's processing  power  and  the  software  he 
helps  develop  give  the  system  the  power  to 
accurately  identify  a  wide  range  of  bombs, 
explosives  and  other  types  of  contraband. 
Formed  in  the  aftermath  of  the  1988 
bombing  of  Pan  Am  Flight  103  over 
Lockerbie,  Scotland,  Vivid  has  developed 
a  customer  base  that  spans  much  of  the 
globe.  In  his  first  year  with  the  firm,  Ander- 
son's duties  have  often 
j!  l)  ^f  *li  ^\\  taken  him  overseas  on 
I  short-deadline  projects 
"jj^jfT  fpl       involving  image- 
ml     lUU   Processing  problems. 
^r^^g^s  After  his  experiences  in 

Klong  Toey,  he  says,  adjusting 
ife  in  Rome  or  Brussels 
seems  easy. 

In  just  over  a  year 
with  Vivid  Technologies, 
Anderson  has  already 
|   served  as  the  key  designer 

for  a  product  launched 
I    this  summer  and  has 
signed  his  first  patent 
application.  But  this  suc- 
cess isn't  due  simply  to 
technical  savvy.  He  says  he 
also  draws  on  the  diverse 
experiences  he  had  under 
the  Plan. 
For  his  Sufficiency  project, 
for  example,  he  wrote  a  play — 
a  romantic  comedy  about  life  in  the 
Midwest  that  made  clear  that  not  all 
Midwesterners  live  on  farms.  "I  was  trying 
to  demonstrate  that  vou  shouldn't  assume 
anything  about  people;  that  you  should  try7 
to  be  tolerant  of  differing  opinions  and  cul- 
tures," he  says.  The  experience  helped  him 
see  that  the  humanities  is  an  important  pillar 
of  the  engineering  profession  and  taught 
him  to  communicate  his  ideas  effectively. 

In  his  time  away  from  the  office,  he  has 
developed  his  own  company,  Andersoft 
Distributed  Enterprises,  that  serves  as  a 
consulting  group  for  a  variety  ol  software 
design  and  development  projects,  including 
screen  savers,  World  Wide  Web  page  lay- 
outs, network  utilities,  and  product  pricing 
and  forecasting  applications.  The  company's 
flagship  product,  PriceADE,  set  for  release 
this  fall,  provides  small  businesses  with  the 
tools  necessary  to  accurately  set  prices  for 
their  products  and  services  based  upon  pro- 
duction expenses  and  desired  profit  margins. 


28 


OCTOBER  1996 


jUIMIimillUM.all.imim.un.nn 


»»""— ■—■"WW 


But  Anderson  says  even  the  launch  of 
his  own  software  firm  is  merely  a  step  in  a 
bigger  process — one  that  began  back  in 
Independence  with  that  T/S  1000  computer. 
"My  long-term  thinking,"  he  says,  "is  that 
I'll  probably  return  to  school  in  another  year 
or  so  to  work  on  an  M.B.A.  or  perhaps  a 
doctorate  in  computer  science."  For  now, 
though,  Anderson  is  keeping  busy  with  a 
career  going  very  much  according  to  Plan. 


AntcnicJ. 
DeUadc  '96 


THE     PLAN     AT     25 


self  in  his  courses,  in  work,  and  in  extracur- 
ricular activities.  Depending 
on  the  term  or  the  time  of 
day,  he 
could  be 
found 
work- 


By  Bonnie  Gelbwasser 

Antonio  Jose  Delgado 
Parra  came  full  circle 
when  he  returned  to 
Venezuela  this  summer  to  begin  his  career 
as  a  development  engineer  with  Shell  Oil 
Co.  in  Maracaibo.  The  second  oldest  of  four 
children  of  a  cab  driver  and  a  secretary, 
Tony  Delgado  grew  up  in  Maracay,  a  city  of 
about  2.5  million  people  located  about  50 
miles  southwest  of  Caracas. 

Education  has  always  been  important  to 
his  family.  "Neither  of  my  parents  got  past 
high  school,"  he  says,  "but  they  knew  how 
hard  life  is  out  there  when  you  don't  have  an 
advanced  education,  and  they  made  sure  it 
did  not  happen  to  us.  They  wanted  their 
children  to  enjoy  the  comfort  and  security 
of  a  well-paying,  professional  job." 

In  his  senior  year  of  high  school,  Tony 
was  among  3,500  students  selected  by  Fun- 
dayacucho,  a  Venezuelan  institution  funded 
by -the  government,  to  compete  for  scholar- 
ships to  colleges  and  universities  throughout 
the  world.  The  program  requires  recipients 
to  work  in  Venezuela  for  two  years  after 
they  graduate  from  college.  Delgado  was 
one  of  only  250  to  receive  the  scholarship. 

In  September  1991,  he  left  home  to 
spend  a  year  learning  English  at  the  Col- 
orado School  ot  Mines.  The  people  at 
Fundayacucho  and  EASPAU  (the  Latin 
American  Scholars  Program  at  American 
Universities),  which  administers  the  scholar- 
ships, suggested  WPI  because  of  its  project 
program.  "I  wanted  an  interactive  program," 
he  says.  "One  that  would  give  me  a  lot  of 
experience  in  the  workplace  as  well  as  the 
classroom." 

Energetic,  enthusiastic  and  curious 
about  everything,  he  quicklv  immersed  him- 


Projects 
Office,  in 
Gordon  Library, 
or  in  the  Provost's 
Office,  tutoring  Spanish 
for  the  Humanities  and 
Arts  Department,  working 
as  a  resident  advisor  for  the 
Strive  and  Frontiers  pro- 
grams, or  serving  as  a  member 
or  an  officer  in  the  Hispanic  Students  Asso- 
ciation and  the  Society  of  Hispanic  Profes- 
sional Engineers  (he  was  HPE  president 
during  his  senior  year).  During  his  four 
years  on  campus,  he  also  managed  to  take 
part  in  two  award-winning  projects  in  two 
countries  at  opposite  ends  of  the  globe  and 
to  add  two  new  languages  to  his  repertoire. 

"After  I  started  working  in  the  Projects 
Office,"  he  says,  "I  saw  all  these  people 
going  out  of  the  country  to  do  projects  and 
I  thought,  'This  is  something  I  would  like 
to  do."  Through  the  Global  Perspective 
Program,  he  was  able  to  do  his  Interactive 
Qualifying  Project  (IQP)  in  Innichen,  on 
the  border  between  Italy  and  Austria,  and 
his  Major  Qualifying  Project  (MQP)  at  the 
University  of  Puerto  Rico  in  Mayaguez. 

In  the  summer  of  1994,  six  students  in 
two  teams  traveled  to  San  Candido,  on  the 
Italian  side  of  Innichen,  to  examine  the  fea- 


sibility of  establishing  a  WPI  project  center 
and  to  stud)  the  impact  of  tourism.  Hie 
teammates  surveyed  tanners,  tourists  and 
town  officials  to  find  out  how  they  felt 
about  the  area's  growing  tourist  industry 
and  its  potential  impact  on  26  mountain 
farms  that  line  the  slope  above  the  town. 
Delgado,  who  had  taken  courses  in 
German  and  Italian  at  WPI,  gave  his  part 
of  the  presentation  to  town  officials  in 
Italian.  The  project  was  a  finalist  in 
the  1994  President's  [QP  Awards 
( Competition. 

One  year  later,  he  trav- 
eled to  Puerto  Rico  to  do 
one  of  the  first  MQPs 
completed  at  the  Univer- 
sii\  dt  Puerto  Kiii  >. 
Mayaguez.  As  part  of  a 
tour-person  team,  he 
'■'■>  undertook  a  bench-scale 
study  of  the  bioremedi- 
ation  ot  petroleum- 
contaminated 

sand.  The  pro- 
'  ject  focused 
on  bioaugmen- 
tation  and  bio- 
stimulation  as  a 
wav  of  enhancing  the 
\     removal  of  total 
a     petroleum  hydrocar- 
bons. The  project, 
sponsored  by  BFI,  won 
first  prize  in  the  Student  Technical  Papers 
Competition  of  the  Northeast  Region 
of  the  American  Society  of  Engineering 
Education  this  past  spring. 

As  he  begins  his  career  back  home,  Del- 
gado says  he  is  excited  to  be  returning  to  his 
family  and  friends  and  is  ready  for  the  chal- 
lenges of  being  one  of  the  first  employees 
hired  by  a  company  anxious  to  make  its 
mark  on  Venezuela's  economy.  "Venezuela 
is  one  of  the  world's  largest  oil  producers 
and  exporters,"  he  says.  "The  country's  oil 
industry  was  nationalized  in  1975,  but  in 
recent  years  the  government  has  begun 
offering  concessions  to  encourage  compa- 
nies to  establish  businesses  there." 

Shell  responded  and  is  recruiting  main 
new  people  to  work  in  Venezuela  on  the 
company's  new  zero-spill  platform  in  Mara- 
caibo Lake.  "More  than  anything  else,"  he 
says,  "WPI  taught  me  how  to  solve  problems 
and  get  results.  I  learned  how  to  be  a  profes- 
sional, to  not  only  anah  ze  a  problem  from  an 
engineering  perspective,  but  see  the  social 
implications  and  the  environmental  impact  of 
technology.  I  am  ready  to  start  my  new  job." 


WTI  JOURNAL 


29 


FINAL     WORD 


i 


2  02  0  Foresight 


EDITOR'S  NOTE:  Last  year,  the 
WPI  community  received  a  challenge 
from  the  committee  planning  a 
campus  celebration  of  the  25th 
anniversary  of  the  WPI  Plan:  in  a 
scholarly  essay,  describe  the  state  of 
the  university  25 years  into  the 
future.  Several  individuals  peered 
into  their  crystal  balls  and  wrote 
brief  abstracts  about  what  they  saw. 
The  committee  invited  five  of  these 
authors  to  expand  their  visions  into 
full-length  papers,  which  were 
presented  to  the  community  in  a 
panel  discussion  on  April  23,  1996. 
The  papers  can  be  found  on  IVPTs 
Website,  http://www.wpi.edu.  Select 
"Information  "from  the  ho?ne  page, 
then  click  on  "Events, "  then  "Major 
Events  &  Celebrations, "  and  finally, 
the  Plan's  silver  anniversary  page. 
The  following  article  provides  an 
overview  of  the  invited  papers. 


Some  25  years  ago,  realizing 
that  the  time  for  change 
had  come,  some  forward- 
looking  sculptors  chiseled  the  last 
vestiges  of  Victorian  educational 
trappings  from  the  WPI  curricu- 
lum and  molded  it  into  the  WPI  Plan  (see 
story,  page  4).  The  Plan  turned  the  curricu- 
lum upside  down,  and  in  the  process,  greatly 
enhanced  the  reputation  and  stature  of  the 
university. 

Before  they  could  create  the  Plan,  the 
faculty'  Planning  Committee  had  to  take 
careful  stock  of  where  WPI  and  the  world 
stood  in  the  late  1960s  and  peer  into  the 
future  to  determine  what  kind  of  institution 
WPI  should  hecome  to  best  meet  the  needs 
of  students  and  society  in  the  decades  to 
come.  Before  crystallizing  their  ideas  into 
the  Plan,  they  drafted  12  quite  different 
visions  of  WPI's  future. 

As  the  university  celebrated  the  25  th 
anniversary  of  the  Plan,  it  seemed  an  apt 
time  to  peer  ahead,  once  again,  to  see  what 
the  next  25  years  might  bring.  In  five 
remarkable  papers,  the  winners  of  an  open 


What  will  WPI  be  like  25  years  hence? 
Will  it  provide  a  higher  quality  of  campus 
life  for  its  students?  Will  it  use  modern 
technology  to 
build  "virtual 
worlds"  to 
help  students 

learn?  Will  it  make  sensitivity  to  the 
environment  an  integral  part  of  its 
curriculum?  Will  it  be  a  downsized, 
but  better  and  ^^^^^ 
better-known 
institution? 
Will  it  steer     | 
aspiring  engi- 
neers toward  a  professional  master's 
degree?  Here  are  five  very  different 
visions  of  WPI's  future. 


and  Paris  Fletcher  Distinguished 
Professor  of  the  Humanities  and 
Arts;  and  John  F.  Zeugner,  profes- 
sor of  history  and  director  of 
WPI's  Asian  project  programs. 


BY  RUTH  TRASK 

competition  held  in  conjunction  with  the 
campus  observance  of  the  Plan's  silver 
anniversary  offered  quite  diverse  forecasts 
for  the  coming  quarter  century.  Like  the 
framers  of  the  Plan,  they  have  evaluated 
WPI's  current  strengths  and  weaknesses, 
and  formulated  plans  to  help  the  university 
continue  to  flourish  in  an  increasingly  tur- 
bulent world. 

The  authors  are  Diran  Apelian,  Howmet 
Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering,  direc- 
tor of  the  Metal  Processing  Institute,  and  for- 
mer provost  and  vice  president  for  academic 
affairs;  James  K.  Doyle,  assistant  professor  of 
social  science  and  policy  studies;  Colleen  J. 
Fox  '97,  an  electrical  engineering  major; 
Roger  S.  Gottlieb,  professor  of  philosophy 


I 


n  her  paper,  Colleen  Fox  says 
the  university  needs  to  shore 
up  its  learning  environment  so 
students  today  and  25  years  from 
today  can  make  the  most  of  their 
WPI  education.  "The  college 
community  has  always  played  an 
important  role  in  a  student's  abil- 
ity to  learn,"  she  says.  "As  a  stu- 
dent and  residential  hall  assistant, 
I  have  seen  how  a  comfortable, 
learning-based  environment  can 
foster  productive  students  who 
are  satisfied  with  their  lives  aca- 
demically and  personally.  I  have 
also  seen  how  the  wrong  environ- 
ment, including  overcrowded 
dorms  and  thoughtless  neighbors, 
can  lead  to  dissatisfaction." 

Since  community  living  is 
most  highly  focused  in  residence 
halls,  the  architecture  of  these 
buildings  is  of  paramount  impor- 
tance, she  notes.  "A  well-designed 
dormitory  can  add  much  to  a  stu- 
dent's academic  and  social  growth,"  notes 
Fox,  who  says  she  believes  that  refurbished 
residence  halls  can  attract  more  students,  a 
larger  percentage  of  whom  will  elect  to  live 
on  campus.  The  result  will  be  a  tighter-knit, 
more  family-like  community. 

But  WPI  needs  more  than  a  face-lift, 
she  says.  "It  needs  the  campus  center 
promised  long  ago  in  the  WPI  Plan  and 
which  is  only  now  being  funded.  When 
prospective  students  tour  our  campus  after 
visiting  other  colleges,  they  immediately 
notice  the  absence  of  a  social  center.  The 
lack  of  a  center  does  not  improve  our  image 
or  help  draw  new  students." 

Although  students,  faculty  members  and 
guests  will  eventually  socialize  in  a  beautiful 
new  campus  center,  Fox  suggests  that  a 
more  immediate  way  for  WPI  to  build  a 
sense  of  community  would  be  to  bring  back 


30 


OCTOBER  1996 


■°~"m«"-" 


MMMMIlinW—H 


"When  prospective  students 
tour  our  campus. . .  they 
immediately  notice  the 

absence  of  a  social  center. 
The  lack  of  a  center  does  not 

improve  our  image  or  help 
draw  new  students. " 

Colleen  Fox 


the  Goat's  Head  Pub.  "Years  ago,"  she  says, 
"the  Pub  was  a  popular  place  for  faculty  and 
students  to  unwind  together  while  discover- 
ing the  pleasures  and  excitement  of  good 
conversation." 

Fox  says  WPI  should  not  underestimate 
the  educational  value  of  the  kinds  of  interac- 
tions faculty  members  and  students  could 
enjoy  at  a  campus  center  or  a  pub.  If  noth- 
ing else,  she  says,  students  and  their  mentors 
would  get  to  know  and  understand  each  oth- 
er better.  "It  would  be  hard  for  prospective 
students  to  overlook  that  kind  of  unity." 

James  Doyle,  in  his  paper,  notes  that 
WTI  may  be  on  the  verge  of  losing  its 
uniqueness  in  die  technical  education 
community,  as  other  universities  move  to 
adopt  changes  not  unlike  those  WTI  pio- 
neered 25  years  ago.  Even  the  Interactive 
Qualifying  Project,  perhaps  the  most  inno- 
vative element  of  the  WTI  Plan,  is  being 
looked  at  as  a  model  of  what  other  techno- 


logical universities  should  strive  to  accom- 
plish in  the  new  millennium. 

As  its  competitors  move  to  implement 
project-based  curricula,  Doyle  says  WTI 
must  blaze  a  new  trail  to  assure  the  continu- 
ation of  its  leadership  role  in  higher  educa- 
tion. That  new  trail,  he  says,  might  take  the 
university  to  some  "virtual  worlds,"  a  term 
Doyle  uses  to  describe  computer-simulated 
learning  environments.  To  succeed  in  the 
2 1st  century,  he  says,  WTI  must  provide 
students  not  only  with  the  best  technologi- 
cal education  possible,  but  with  the  best  in 
educational  technology. 

The  idea  of  learning  through  virtual 
worlds  borrows  from  the  theory  and  tech- 
nology of  computerized  simulations  that  are 
used  today  to  train  people  to  run  such  com- 
plex machines  as  nuclear  power  plants  and 
jumbo  jets.  Simulators,  he  notes,  enable 
operators  to  experience  and  learn  from  situ- 
ations that  may  be  too  dangerous  or  costly 
to  reproduce  in  real  lite. 

Doyle  says  there  are  manifold  advan- 
tages to  learning  through  simulations.  They 
include  the  ability  to  present  students  with 
controllable,  easily  completed  experiments 
that  can  be  reversed,  if  necessary,  making  it 
easier  for  students  to  learn  from  their  mis- 
takes. Virtual  experiments  can  also  be  inter- 
rupted, eliminating  the  time  pressure  that 
can  degrade  real-life  decision  making.  And 
virtual  worlds  can  collect  years  of  simulated 
experience  that  can  be  easily  retrieved. 

"System  dynamics  software  provides  a 
universal  language  for  representing  systems 
in  domains  ranging  from  science  to  technol- 
ogy to  social  problems  to  economics  to  envi- 
ronmental science,  malting  it  particularlv 
well-suited  for  WTI's  interdisciplinary  and 
interactive  studies,"  he  says. 

Doyle  says  virtual  worlds  have  the  power 
to  significantly  improve  undergraduate  edu- 
cation, which  is  still  dominated  by  the  passive 
classroom  lecture.  He  says  a  better  method 
of  teaching  lies  in  the  combination  of  virtual 
world  simulations  with  two  emerging  edu- 
cational practices:  cooperative  learning  and 
learner-directed  learning.  In  cooperative 
learning,  students  work  together  in  small 
groups  to  solve  problems.  In  learner-directed 


James  Doyle 

"System  dynamics  software 
provides  a  universal  language 

for  representing  systems  in 

domains  ranging  from  sci- 
ence to  technology  to  social 

problems  to  economics  to 
environmental  science,  mak- 
ing it  particularly  well-suited 

for  WPI's  interdisciplinary 
and  interactive  studies. " 


learning,  students  share  responsibility  with 
the  instructor  for  the  pace  and  direction  of 
the  educational  process.  The  use  of  computer 
simulations  enhances  both  processes,  he  says. 

If  WTI  does  not  take  current  and  future 
environmental  challenges  seriously,  it 
should  not  claim  the  right  to  represent 
itself  as  a  legitimate  site  tor  the  training  and 
evaluation  of  young  professionals,  Roger 
Gottlieb  writes  in  his  paper.  "How  can  \\  l'I 
be  worthy  of  flourishing  if  it  does  not  recog- 
nize its  moral  responsibility  to  our  civiliza- 
tion and  our  species  and  also  integrate  its 
programs  into  the  industrial  and  govern- 

(Continued  next  page) 


WTI  JOURNAL 


31 


FINAL     WORD 


2020  FORESIGHT  (Continued) 

mental  structures  which  are  the  ultimate 
sources  of  its  support?"  he  asks. 

Gottlieb  says  the  world  is  in  environ- 
mental peril.  Among  the  crises  it  faces  are 
the  destruction  of  its  rain  forests,  the  shrink- 
ing of  the  ozone  layer,  the  threat  of  global 
warming  brought  on  by  use  of  fossil  fuels, 
the  polluting  of  air,  land  and  water  by  toxic 
wastes,  and  the  decimating  of  animal  species 
due  to  the  elimination  of  their  natural  habi- 
tats. Also  looming  are  the  "dismal  prospect" 
of  engineered  life  forms  and  the  "potentially 
catastrophic"  creation  of  insufficiently  tested 
organisms  through  genetic  engineering. 

Many  of  these  environmental  problems 
have  come  about,  Gottlieb  claims,  because 
people  tried  to  make  the  world  "better."  For 
example,  he  says,  engineered  miracle  seeds, 
chemical  fertilizers  and  pesticides  were 
introduced  in  Third  World  countries  to 
vastly  increase  agricultural  output.  The 
result  has  been  poisoned  soil,  destabilization 
of  water  usage,  and  the  loss  of  crops.  In 
short,  when  the  engineers  tried  to  fix  things, 
they  chose  to  dismiss  the  traditional  prac- 
tices of  local  peoples  and  turned  instead  to 
"expert  scientific  advice." 

In  the  light  of  this  scientific  and  moral 
dilemma,  WPI  must  make  some  fundamen- 
tal changes  in  its  curriculum,  Gottlieb  notes. 
First,  it  should  publicly  acknowledge  the 
severity  of  the  environmental  crisis.  Second, 
it  should  provide  its  students  a  context  in 
which  they  will  be  less  likely  to  unemotion- 
ally skip  over  news  stories  about  environ- 
mental problems,  believing  that  such  prob- 
lems have  easy,  technological  answers. 
Gottlieb  says  he  tries  to  accomplish  both 
objectives  in  his  course  titled  "Philosophy 
and  the  Environment."  Sometimes  the 
results  can  be  quite  profound.  Noted  one  of 
his  students,  "I'm  not  sure  I  can  go  on  with 
what  I'm  supposed  to  do  in  this  life.  If  I  start 
to  cry,  I  might  never  stop." 

If  a  WPI  education  is  to  measure  up  to 
the  challenges  of  a  world  threatened  by 
environmental  destruction,  students  must  be 
taught  to  think  of  engineering  problems  in 
their  full  complexity,  Gottlieb  says.  Aware- 
ness of  the  moral  consequences  of  techno- 
logical developments — as  well  as  of  their 
inevitable  ties  to  forms  of  political  and  eco- 


"How  can  WPI  be  worthy 
of  flourishing  if  it  does  not 
recognize  its  moral  respon- 
sibility to  our  civilization  and 

our  species  and  also  inte- 
grate its  programs  into  the 
industrial  and  governmental 

structures  which  are  the 

ultimate  sources  of  its 

support?" 

Roger  Gottlieb 


•••••••• 


nomic  organizations — must  be  considered 
essential  for  a  professionally  competent 
engineer,  scientist  or  manager.  "The 
abstract  education  that  forgets  the  social 
conditions  in  which  environmental  prob- 
lems arise  is  simply  not  adequate  for  the 
tasks  before  us,"  he  concludes. 

In  industry,  "downsizing"  has  become  a 
frightening  word  for  employees.  "But  if 
it's  done  right,"  John  Zeugner  says,  "it 
can  bring  long-term  benefits  not  only  to 
industry,  but  to  colleges  seeking  to  redefine 
themselves  in  an  ever-changing  world." 

Zeugner  says  WPI  will  very  likely  cease 
to  exist  in  a  society  in  which  income  distrib- 
ution is  increasingly  skewed,  with  more  and 
more  wealth  being  controlled  by  fewer  and 
fewer  people,  and  where  job  security — espe- 


cially at  the  entry  engineering  level — has 
become  a  thing  of  the  past. 

Acknowledging,  however,  that  the  cele- 
bration of  the  WPI  Plan's  25th  anniversary 
would  not  support  a  paper  detailing  the 
demise  of  the  institution,  Zeugner  instead 
speculates  that  to  survive  WPI  will  have  to 
steer  away  from  its  traditional  role  of  edu- 
cating students  at  the  bachelor's  level  for 
entry-level  jobs  and  redefine  its  mission  to 
encompass  a  more  exclusive  set  of  functions. 
These  might  include  an  educational  pro- 
gram tailored  to  graduate  study  in  five  par- 
ticular fields — new  materials  engineering; 
social  analysis  of  safety;  cognitive  science 
and  artificial  intelligence;  technology, 
management  and  entrepreneurship;  and 
bio/chemical/medical  engineering — all 
within  the  dominant  focus  of  ever  increasing 
ecological  concerns. 

Before  this  grand  design  can  be  imple- 
mented, however,  he  says  WPI  will  auto- 
matically undergo  declining  enrollments,  in 
part  due  to  the  shrinking  pool  of  students 
who  come  from  families  that  can  afford  an 
education  at  a  private  university.  After  a 
year  or  two  of  this  natural  downsizing, 
WPI  should  step  in  and  voluntarily  and 
aggressively  "downrightsize"  the  student 
body,  Zeugner  says.  "By  that  time,  down- 
sizing by  choice  will  seem  proper,  brilliant 
and  necessary,  and  it  will  be  happening 
anyway." 

Ultimately,  "downrightsizing"  should 
enhance  the  quality  of  incoming  students 
and  permit  more  generous  forms  of  financial 
aid,  he  says.  He  envisions  that  WPI  will 
make  available  to  all  students  an  expense- 
free  fourth  year  through  a  revolving  loan 
program  that  can  be  repaid  after  graduation 
at  a  low  interest  rate  or  waived  entirely 
should  a  student  qualify  for  entry  into  WPI's 
master's  programs.  These  programs  would 
be  available  to  them  after  their  third  year  at 
WPI  because  by  then  the  university  will 
have  added  required  fifth  and  sixth  terms 
each  year.  "Enrolling  students  would,  there- 
fore, have  a  powerful  incentive  to  go  on  for 
their  master's  degree  after  personal  expen- 
ditures for  only  three  years  of  prior  educa- 
tion," he  says. 

Despite  the  drop  in  enrollments  and  the 
initial  worry  by  the  faculty  about  decreased 
opportunities  for  tenure,  Zeugner  says  he 
believes  the  college,  given  its  recast  graduate 
programs,  would  be  able  to  survive  the 
changes  intact.  "The  ansjst  downrightsizing 


32 


OCTOBER  1996 


raWHBWtfHH 


— MMM<M».<w»»,n.-^^->n.»Uo^^.>„ 


I.M.— »«.M|«,1..um»U«l 


will  cause  among  faculty  members  will  be 
alleviated  somewhat  by  the  possibility  of 
Satellite  Center  'pasturing'  of  faculty  unwill- 
ing to  take  retirement,"  Zeugner  says. 

With  appropriate  downsizing,  by  the 
year  2020  WPI  will  have  shrunk  to  a  man- 
ageable undergraduate  population  of  about 
1,400,  he  predicts.  All  students  will  be  going 
to  school  nearly  hill  time,  studying  under  the 
guidance  of  world-class  scholars  hired  by  the 
college,  and  looking  forward  to  graduating 
with  their  master's  degrees  within  four  years. 

In  the  next  century,  following  thought- 
ful downsizing  and  upgrading  of  the  cur- 
riculum, WPI  will  savor  a  reputation  and 
stability  and  prominence  well  beyond  any- 
thing it  has  ever  known,  Zeugner  believes. 
"The  time  to  start  downrightsizing  is  not 
tomorrow,  not  next  year,  but  today." 


John  Zeugner 

"By  that  time,  downsizing 

by  choice  will  seem  proper, 

brilliant  and  necessary. . . . 

The  angst  downrightsizing 

will  cause  among  faculty 

members  will  be  alleviated 

somewhat  by  the  possibility 

of  Satellite  Center  'pasturing' 

of  faculty  unwilling  to  take 


retirement. " 


One  way  for  WPI  to  compete  and  to 
expand  its  leadership  role  in  engineer- 
ing education  in  the  future  is  to  offer  a 
professional  master's  degree  program," 
notes  Diran  Apelian.  "As  we  examine  the 
professions,  including  engineering,  law  and 
medicine,  we  find  that  with  the  exception  of 
engineering,  all  have  a  professional  terminal 
degree."  For  most  undergraduates  interested 
in  careers  in  engineering,  the  professional 
master's  would  supplant  the  bachelor  of  sci- 
ence as  that  terminal  degree,  Apelian  says. 
Since  World  War  II,  the  U.S.  has  been 
transformed  from  a  defense-oriented  to  a 
commercial/industrial  economy,  a  transition 
viewed  with  concern  by  the  members  of  one 
of  WPI's  industrial  consortia,  the  Aluminum 
Casting  Research  Laboratory,  Apelian  says. 
The  consensus  of  the  aluminum  casting 
industry,  he  notes,  is  that  to  keep  in  tune  with 
a  changing  world,  WPI's  curriculum  should 
include  exposure  to  organizational  behavior, 
finance  and  management,  and  global  issues, 
and  should  provide  students  opportunities  to 
engage  in  industrial  internships. 

"It  is  expected  that  our  graduates  will 
assume  leadership  posts  in  industry,  so  it  is 
imperative  that  they  have  a  knowledge  of 
the  workings  of  organizations  and  the  world 
of  commerce,"  Apelian  says.  "I  am  not  sug- 
gesting that  our  engineering  graduate  stu- 
dents should  also  be  M.B.A.s.  However, 
rather  than  viewing  these  two  disciplines  as 
separate  cultures,  we  should  look  at  them  as 
points  along  a  continuum." 

To  bridge  the  gap  that  often  exists 
between  higher  education  and  industry, 
Apelian  proposes  that  WPI  institute  a  five- 
year  professional  master's  intended  as  a  ter- 
minal degree,  not  necessarily  as  the  first  step 
toward  a  research-oriented  Ph.D.  Besides 
taking  the  basic  courses  in  their  discipline, 
students  in  this  master's  program  would  be 
required  to  take  courses  with  a  focus  in  pro- 
cessing or  design,  skills  eagerly  sought  by 
industry.  To  gain  depth  as  engineers,  stu- 
dents would  also  be  encouraged  to  take 
courses  in  departments  beyond  their  home 
department. 

A  major  requirement  of  the  professional 
master's  degree  would  be  a  design  project 
encompassing  a  full  academic  year.  While 
tackling  this  complex,  real-world  project, 
students  would  take  part  in  industrial  clin- 
ics— programs  where  high-level  practition- 
ers would  pass  on  their  knowledge  to  stu- 
dents and  their  faculty  advisors. 


"Our  graduates  will 
assume  leadership  posts 
in  industry  so  it  is  imper- 
ative that  they  have  a 
knowledge  of  the  workings 
of  organizations  and  the 
world  of  commerce. " 


Diran  Apelian 


Though  he  champions  the  professional 
master's  as  the  terminal  degree  for  engi- 
neers, Apelian  says  WPI  should  continue  to 
offer  its  four-year  accredited  bachelor's 
degree  programs  in  engineering  for  students 
who  may  want  to  pursue  a  Ph.D.  or  who 
plan  to  use  their  engineering  degree  as  a 
stepping  stone  to  other  professions,  for 
example  law  and  medicine.  He  says  the 
bachelor's  curriculum  should  be  revamped 
to  allow  time  for  exposure  to  subjects  like 
management,  manufacturing,  and  technolo- 
gy and  society.  "Such  a  B.S.  degree  has  the 
possibility  of  developing  into  the  liberal  arts 
degree  of  the  21st  century,"  Apelian  says. 

Apelian  predicts  that  as  the  professional 
master's  becomes  more  widely  adopted, 
and  as  acceptance  grows  for  the  notion 
that  entry  to  the  professional  practice  of 
engineering  begins  with  the  receipt  of  a 
master's  degree,  engineering  will  enjoy 
increased  prestige  in  the  eyes  of  the  public. 
And  anything  that  enhances  the  engineer- 
ing profession  bodes  well  for  the  future  of 
WPI,  he  says. 


iii 


&-% 


Sw^f^i 


!.*., 


■» 


b'* 


% 


•*&* 


miml 


'  aj1- 


'v  ■■■"*    J 


t  ■  ■■'.  ' 


.S;-;*^— 


-4r_. 


•2s. 


^s 


-4- 


-4=- 


W 


i%  I  I  ifa 


■N 


P02BbS0##*##*  CAR-RT  SORT  **  C005 

MRS.    DIANA  J-    JOHNSON 

9  WETHERELL   STREET 
WORCESTER  MA  01602-2644 


l*."^',:* 


•   '■•' 


iii„„„iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiyniiiiiiMii»<i<»<'i'ij 


' 


E^>.tP. 


PHIIMMBIIIIIIIII   Ml 


DECEMBER       1996 


4N* 


• 


^m 


% 


,:/*' 


Pn , 


■■•&;. rZ'     ■'"■ .?  V 1  v.      S^a  »~  >  ■■  X'.  V ?  -' * 


inaugurating  eJr  New 


The  Annual  Report  of  the  University 


.. ^...—~ — .. 


~»-.«™--— ---~"-~— HUMIMMl  ■mrnmMUtmauut«**Muaam* 


VOLUME  XCIX,  NO.  4,  DECEMBER  1996 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


A  Symphony  of  Ideas,  Page  2 

The  inauguration  of  Edward  A.  Parrish  as  WPI's  14th  president 

on  Sept.  20,  1996,  was  an  opportunity  to  celebrate  the  richness 

of  WPI's  history  and  the  promise  of  its  future.  It  was  also  a  day  to 

share  ideas  and  express  opinions  that  go  directly  to  the  heart  of  WPI's 

mission  as  a  modern  technological  university.  In  this  issue  of  the 

WPI  Journal,  we  present  a  sampling  of  those  ideas  and  opinions: 

"Embarking  on  an  Age  of  Exploration," 

a  message  by  Connecticut  College  President  Claire  L.  Gaudiani; 

"Making  a  Difference," 

the  inaugural  address  of  Edward  A.  Parrish; 

"Getting  on  With  the  Job  of  Change," 

a  report  on  the  inaugural  symposium. 

Eventful  Year  Prelude  to  Exciting  Era  of  Opportunity,  Page  11 

As  one  busy  academic  year  ended  and  another  began,  WPI  found 
itself  on  the  cusp  of  a  new  era  in  its  history.  Poised  to  garner,  at  last, 
the  national  reputation  it  deserves,  WPI  launched  an  ambitious  effort 

to  create,  by  the  end  of  this  academic  year,  a  vision  for  its  future. 

DEPARTMENTS 


Financial  Summary  and  Highlights,  By  Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66,  Page  17 
University  Relations  Highlights,  A  Strong  Team  Moves  Forward,  By  John  L.  Hey/,  Page  18 

The  WPI  Honor  Roll  of  Donors,  Page  19 

Front  Cover:  Newly  installed  WPI  President  Edward  A.  Parrish  delivers  his  inaugural  address  to  an 

audience  of  some  1 ,800.  Story  on  page  2.  Photo  by  Patrick  O'Connor.  Opposite:  NASA  astronaut 

Michael  Lopez-Alegria  chats  with  some  young  fans  during  a  visit  to  WPI  by  the  crew  of  the  space 

shuttle  Columbia.  Story  on  page  11.  Photo  by  William  Mercer.  Back  Cover:  Bagpiper  Eric  Clinton  '99, 

a  double  major  (physics  and  biology)  who  led  guests  on  a  candlelit  walk  across  the  Higgins  House 

lawn  to  the  Inaugural  Dinner.  Story  on  Page  2.  Photo  by  Jonathan  Kannair.  (Clinton,  who  plays 
French  horn  in  the  WPI  Concert  Band,  has  been  performing  on  the  pipes  for  less  than  three  years. 
As  a  swimming  coach  at  the  Special  Olympics,  he  became  interested  in  the  instrument  when  he 

saw  it  played  at  the  opening  of  a  swimming  meet  at  the  Special  Olympics  in  New  Hampshire. 
"I  thought  they  were  cool,"  he  says,  "and  I'm  part  Scottish,  so  I  decided  to  learn  to  play  them.") 

Staff  of  the  WPI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  \V.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelbwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  I  risk  • 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Samuel  Mencow  '37,  chairman,  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  vice  chairman,  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60, 

Joel  P.  Greene  '69,  William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  I  larlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  WTI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  by 

the  Office  of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Vt.  Printed  in  the  U.S.  \ 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  official  WPI  policies.  We  welcome  letters  to  the  editor.  Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 

WTI  Journal,  WPI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  ML  I  01609-2280  •  Phone:  (SOS)  831-5609,  Fax:  ( 508)  8  U-5820  •  Electronic  Mail.  wpi-journaMwpi.edu  •  II  'arid  H  Ide  Web: 

http://www.wpi.edu/News/Journal/  •  Postmaster.  Ifumleltverable,  please  send  Form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  1996,  II  'waster  Polytechnic  Institute. 


ike  massive  wkite  tent  over  the 
Quadrangle  provided  a  dramatic 
lunckeon  venue  lor  tke  1,8°°  guests 
wko  attended  tke  inauguration  of 
WPI  Resident  Edward  /V  larrisk. 
^vVitk  its  graceful  curves,  tke  tent  served 
also  as  a  symbol  ot  tke  sweep  ot  ideas 
presented  on  tkat  day. 


A    C 


Encapsulated  witkin  tkose  ideas  was 
a  vision  ot  W 1  I  s  tuture  under  tk 
leaderskip  ol  its  14tk  president, 
tuture  tkat  may,  at  last,  bring 
tke  university  well-deserved 
recognition  as  a  world 
leader  in  tecknological 
education. 


BY  MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


and  ended  with  a  quiet  walk  on  a  warm,  moonlit  evening  along  a  path  lined  with 
L  candles.  Before  it  was  over,  WPI  would  formally  install  its  14th  president  and 
symbolically  launch  a  critical  new  era  in  its  history.  It  all  transpired  under  the  clearest, 
bluest  skies  New  England  can  muster. 

The  inauguration  of  Edward  A.  Parrish  on  Sept.  20,  1996,  was  a  grand  party  enjoyed 
by  some  1,800  guests,  including  delegates  from  more  than  100  colleges,  universities,  and 
learned  associations  and  societies.  The  highlight  of  the  day  was  the  formal  installation 
ceremony,  held  in  Harrington  Auditorium  and  accompanied  by  the  music  of  three  WPI 
student  groups — the  Concert  Band,  the  Men's  Glee  Club  and  the  Alden  Voices  (women's 
chorale).  It  was  followed  by  a  luncheon  for  all  under  a  massive  white  tent  that  nearly 
covered  the  Quadrangle,  and  an  afternoon  symposium  in  Alden  Memorial  titled  "The 
New  Liberal  Education  for  the  Age  of  Technology." 

The  festivities  stretched  into  the  evening  as  guests  gathered  in  Higgins  House  for 
the  gala  inaugural  reception.  Moving  from  room  to  room  in  the  former  home  of 
Worcester  industrialist  Aldus  Higgins,  they  took  in  brief  musical  selections  performed 
by  the  Medwin  String  Ensemble,  the  Men's  Glee  Club,  the  Alden  Voices  and  the  Jazz 
Ensemble.  Alpha  Psi  Omega,  the  dramatic  arts  honor  society,  offered  a  glimpse  of  the 
university's  active  and  diverse  theater  programs. 

With  the  sun  setting  over  the  Higgins  House  lawn,  the  fading  gloaming  revealed  a 
half  moon,  and  beside  it,  the  bright  disk  of  Saturn.  The  plaintive  wail  of  bagpipes  rose 
into  the  evening  air.  The  piper,  Eric  Clinton  '99,  led  Ed  and  Shirley  Parrish  and  the 
other  guests  to  an  elegant  dinner  in  Harrington,  while  WPI  students  lighted  the  way 
with  candles.  The  dinner  concluded  with  a  spirited  performance  by  the  student  a  cappella 
group  Simple  Harmonic  Motion. 

Music  played  an  appropriate  role  in  the  day's  events,  as  the  inauguration  of  Presi- 
dent Parrish  proved  to  be  a  symphony  of  ideas.  Those  ideas  form  the  focus  for  this  issue 
of  the  WPI  Journal,  which  is  also  WPI's  1995-96  annual  report.  They  provide  a  glimpse 
into  the  bold  new  future  shaping  up  for  technological  education  and  the  pivotal  role 
WPI  will  play  in  shaping  that  future.  In  the  pages  that  follow,  we  present  the  semi- 
f        nal  ideas  of  the  day  in  the  form  of  President  Parrish's  inaugural  address,  the 
remarks  of  Claire  Gaudiani,  president  of  Connecticut  College,  and  a  report 
e  lively  two-hour  symposium. 

Bold  ideas  are,  perhaps,  the  most  enduring  legacy  of  the  inaug- 
uration of  President  Parrish.  Along  with  pleasant  memories,  they 
are  what  die  guests  took  with  them  as  they  left  Harrington  that 
ning.  Stepping  out  into  the  night,  many  stood  for  a 
ment  to  admire  the  moonlight  shimmering  on 
-  peaks  of  the  big  white  tent.  Rising  sharply  into  a 
— ry  sky,  those  peaks  seemed  to  be 
jointing  out  a  new  destination 
)r  die  university,  somewhere 
here"  in  a  new  fron- 
r  of  accomplishment 
•md  recognition. 


P 


tm barking  on  an  /\ge  or  Exploration 


It 


By  Claire  L.  gaudiani,  President  of  Connecticut  College 

It  is  a  great  honor  for  me  to  bring  you  greetings 
from  the  men  and  women  of  the  Connecticut 
College  community  and  from  colleges  and  uni- 
versities around  the  country  that  hold  this  institu- 
tion in  such  high  regard. 

This  beautiful  day  and  this  beautiful  hall  are  a 
fit  setting  in  which  to  celebrate  the  inauguration 
of  President  Parrish  and  the  extraordinary  career 
he  brings  to  WP1.  With  his  experience  as  a  widely 
published  engineer  and  scientist,  and  a  highly 
appreciated  teacher  and  administrator,  he  brings  a 
unique  set  of  skills  and  a  unique  kind  of  wisdom  to 
WP1  at  this  moment  in  its  history  and  at  this  time 
in  human  history.  For  we  are  entering  an  age  of 
exploration.  And  the  best  education  for  the  lead- 
ers of  this  new  age  will  be  one  that  connects  the 
practice  of  science  and  technology  with  the  deeper 
understanding  of  human  beings  and  culture. 

Many  writers  point  to  the  invention  of  the 
Gutenberg  Press  as  the  reference  point  for  our 
age.  Gutenberg's  invention  opened  a  new  set  of 
possibilities — possibilities  for  communication,  yes, 
but  much  more  profoundly,  possibilities  for  access 
to  learning,  for  sustaining,  building  and  transmit- 
ting to  future  generations  the  wisdom  of  human 
minds  working  across  all  fields  of  endeavor.  It  was 
a  great  moment  in  human  history,  the  invention 
of  the  Gutenberg  Press,  yet  that  technology — and 
that  moment — as  great  as  they  were,  are  not  the 
reference  points  for  our  age. 

In  our  age,  telecommunications  and  informa- 
tion systems  have  opened  a  time  much  more  com- 
plicated, much  more  exciting,  and  sometimes, 
much  more  frightening  than  the  age  of  Guten- 
berg— more,  in  fact,  like  the  age  of  exploration.  In 


"Surfing  the  net, 

we  are,  in  fact,  pa  it 

of  a  new  metaphor. 

We  are  part  of  a  new 

age  in  which  men  and 

women  of  all  countries 

and  all  races  and 

abilities,  in  their 

majestic  diversity,  will 

engage  together  in 

establishing  a  new 

framework  for 

human  life. " 


this  new  age  of  exploration,  librarians  have 
become  navigators,  not  simply  catalogers.  Faculty 
members  are  no  longer  simply  lecturers  as  they 
were  after  Gutenberg  (the  word  lecturer  comes 
from  a  lectern;  a  French  phrase  that  means  "to  be 
the  one  who  reads  the  book  to  others");  now  they 
are  fellow  explorers  with  their  students. 

Now  we  move,  not  one  foot  in  front  of  the 
other,  step  by  step,  one  moment  at  a  time  on  the 
linear  path,  but  through  geographical  space,  and 
forward  and  backward  in  time,  using  a  net  with  mul- 
tiple options  and  modes,  with  parallel  processes 
and  programs  and  progressions.  Limited  techni- 
cally only  by  the  speed  of  light,  people  around  the 
world  without  running  water,  without  access  to 
what  we  would  consider  everyday  technology, 
have  access  to  satellite  dishes  and  generators  and 
receive  the  modern  world  right  out  of  the  sky. 

In  Morocco,  in  underground  dwellings,  people 
watch  television  and  see  the  same  soccer  games  and 
the  same  Dallas  reruns  that  people  watch  in  Paris, 
London  and  New  York.  Corporate  scientists  from 
the  far  corners  of  the  Earth  can  work  together  in 
global  teams  by  meeting  in  regular  video  confer- 
ences, reducing  to  nothingness  the  thousands  of 
miles  that  separate  them.  Time  and  distance  have 
converged  through  technology7.  When  I  consider 
the  printing  press  in  this  context,  it  seems  to  me 
that  Gutenberg  was  just  an  upgrade — one  might 
even  say  the  equivalent  of  more  monks,  writing 
faster,  storing  more  sacred  texts — "MonkPerfect 
10.1."  If  that's  true,  perhaps  we  can't  look  at  the 
simple  "field  of  telecommunications"  as  our 
metaphor.  Perhaps  the  metaphor  is  exploration — 
navigating  the  geography  of  cyberspace. 

Surfing  the  net,  we  are,  in  fact,  part  of  a  new 
metaphor.  We  are  part  of  a  new  age  in  which  men 
and  women  of  all  countries  and  all  races  and  abili- 
ties, in  their  majestic  diversity,  will  engage  together 
in  establishing  a  new  framework  for  human  life. 
We  need  to  know  where  we  are  so  we  can  under- 
stand what  we  need  to  put  in  the  craft  with  us  as  we 
make  our  progress.  Education  will  now  need  to 
engage  students  and  faculty  with  the  world.  It  will 
need  to  engage  students  with  multiple  cultures — 
not  just  ethnic  and  national  cultures,  but  discipli- 
nary and  problem-solving  cultures.  We  all  will 
need  to  speak  multiple  languages — multiple  human 
languages,  but  also  multiple  machine  and  techno- 
logical languages.  Those  of  us  over  40  will  be  the 
last  generation  to  speak  digital  with  an  accent. 

The  directions  already  so  well-developed  in 
WPl's  project-based  education  are  exactly  right  for 
the  age  of  exploration;  this  institution  must  be  con- 
gratulated for  the  foresight  that  made  its  education 
right  for  this  time.  Explorers  in  science,  technology 
and  engineering  have  brought  human  beings  to  this 


December  1996 


"/  believe  educators  must  focus  more  intensively  on  how  we  can  connect  the  human 
spirit  to  the  achievements  of  the  age  of  exploration.  H  'e  need  to  he  sensitive  to  what 

is  important  to  all  human  beings. " 


age,  and  WPI's  kind  of  education  will  he  critical  to 
preparing  the  explorers  of  the  future. 

But  as  a  humanist,  and  a  French  literature 
scholar,  I  believe  that  this  institution,  my  own 
institution,  and  other  institutions  across  the  coun- 
try must  continue  to  work  on  a  way  to  link  the 
critical,  analytical  skills  even  more  powerfully  with 
the  humane  skills.  These  skills  must  be  developed 
together,  because  in  this  age  we  will  need  to  have 
humane  skills  (for  instance,  negotiation  and  con- 
flict resolution  skills)  at  just  as  high  a  level  as  our 
technical  skills.  For  it  will  be  those  who  can  bring 
about  technical  advances  and  sustain  the  peace 
who  will  bring  us  peace  with  prosperity,  instead  of 
peace  with  despair  and  with  the  widening  gap 
between  the  haves  and  the  have-nots. 

We  will  also  need  to  develop  authentic  com- 
munication skills — public  speaking  skills  and  lis- 
tening skills.  In  an  age  when  technology  gives  us 
the  opportunity  to  communicate  across  wide 
bands  of  the  human  race,  those  with  the  best  ideas 
may  not  prevail  unless  they  are  also  the  ones  who 
can  communicate  their  ideas  most  competently 
and  effectively. 

Team-building  skills  will  also  be  important  in 
this  new  age.  These  are  skills  you  have  wisely 
worked  on  here  at  YVPI  because  you  understand 
that  while  human  beings  will  always  be  touched 
by  the  gifts  of  the  quintessential  individual  per- 
former, the  complexity  of  our  age  will  increasingly 
demand  teamwork  and  the  capacity  of  individuals 
within  teams  to  play  a  variety  of  roles  to  enable 
the  team  to  do  its  best  work  and  to  be  more  than 
the  sum  of  its  parts. 

In  addition  to  these  humane  skills,  I  believe 
educators  must  focus  more  intensively  on  how  we 
can  connect  the  human  spirit  to  the  achievements 
of  the  age  of  exploration.  We  need  to  be  sensitive 
to  what  is  important  to  all  human  beings,  whether 
they  are  here  in  New  England  or  in  Africa,  Asia  or 
Latin  America;  whether  they  are  older  or 
younger;  whether  they  are  well  or  sick.  We  must 
be  willing  to  look  for  common  ground  and  a  set  of 
transcending  values  that  connect  the  human  spirit 
across  the  world. 

This  will  not  be  easy,  but  we  in  America  are 
especially  well-suited  to  this  study.  We  were 
blessed  to  be  born  in  this  great  land,  and  we  are 
united  by  a  set  of  documents  that  lay  out  an  under- 
standing of  the  human  spirit  and  the  obligations 
and  opportunities  we  offer  each  other.  We  are 
bound  together  by  the  Declaration  of  Indepen- 
dence, the  Constitution  and  the  Bill  of  Rights. 
Ideas  from  Greek  and  Roman  civilization,  from 
European  humanism,  and  from  the  great  Judeo- 
Christian  and  Islamic  faiths,  brought  the  wisdom  of 
the  human  spirit  to  the  framers  of  the  Constitution. 


We  must  assure  that  this  wisdom 
goes  with  us  in  the  craft  we  will  con- 
struct to  travel  through  the  age  of  ex- 
ploration. We  must  not  only  say  that 
we  believe  diat  all  men  are  created 
equal  and  that  they  are  endowed  by 
their  creator  with  certain  inalienable 
rights,  among  them  life,  liberty  and 
the  pursuit  of  happiness.  We  must 
make  that  set  of  beliefs  real  for  others, 
not  just  those  with  whom  we  share  a 
great  deal,  but  for  our  brothers  and 
sisters  around  the  world.  We  must 
dedicate  ourselves  to  that  transcend- 
ing set  of  goals  with  the  same  power 
with  which  we  pursue  the  space  pro- 
gram and  the  human  genome  project. 

For  our  enemies  today  are  not 
evil  empires;  they  are  the  potential 
for  racial  and  ethnic  and  national 
conflicts  that  will  break  societies 
apart.  Many  scholars  believe  this 
potential  for  destruction  is  more  powerful  than 
any  force  we  have  ever  met.  We  must  bring 
together  the  powers  that  have  motivated  the  work 
done  here  at  WPI,  the  powers  of  the  corporate, 
trade  and  business  sectors,  and  the  powers  of  the 
military  and  government,  to  work  toward  ways  to 
bring  about  peace  and  cooperation  as  we  move 
toward  everyone's  prosperity. 

We  have  arrived  at  an  important  moment. 
The  education  you  have  accomplished  here  has 
been  part  of  the  strongest  work  of  the  age  of  mod- 
ernism. Systematizing,  efficiency-optimizing  tech- 
nologies have  moved  us  to  this  extraordinary 
moment.  They  have  built  one  wing  of  the  craft. 
Through  the  ages,  human  beings  have  been  build- 
ing the  other  wing,  one  based  in  relationships 
moved  by  the  human  spirit  and  by  the  need  for 
tolerance,  compassion  and  trust.  This  wing  cannot 
always  be  accounted  for  by  rational  analysis,  but 
the  craft  will  need  both  wings. 

After  a  while,  we  will  notice  that  we  are  not 
only  in  a  craft  with  two  wings,  both  working  well, 
but  that  the  craft  has  become  a  bird  and  that  both 
wings  are  moving  with  equal  strength.  Those  wings 
will  carry  the  human  race  into  the  2 1st  century,  not 
into  the  despair  of  ethnic  rivalries  and  small 
destructive  wars,  of  disease,  and  of  the  widening 
gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor,  but  into  the 
generosity  and  ingenuity  of  the  human  spirit,  born 
in  the  kind  of  education  WTI  offers.  This  kind  of 
education  will  bring  us  to  the  place  that  human 
beings  have  only  imagined  for  thousands  of  years 
and  that  was  thought  to  be  an  ideal  that  we  were 
not  intended  to  achieve  on  this  Earth.  It  is  a  place 
where  the  age  of  exploration  can  truly  begin. 


EDITOR'S  NOTE: 

A  scholar  of  1 1th  century 
French  literature,  Claire  L. 
Gaudiani  has  been  president 
since  1988  of  Connecticut 
College  in  New  London, 
Conn.,  from  which  she  grad- 
uated in  1966.  During  her 
presidency  the  college  has 
nearly  tripled  its  endowment, 
built  or  renovated  four  major 
buildings,  and  created  four 
major  interdisciplinary  aca- 
demic centers.  Gaudianis 
institution  is  creating  an 
innovative  approach  to  edu- 
cating young  men  and  women 
in  the  liberal  arts  tradition, 
much  as  WPI  transformed 
technological  education  25 
years  ago  with  the  WPI  Plan. 
Connecticut  College's  under- 
graduate program  emphasizes 
the  critical  role  technology 
plays  in  all  professions  and  the 
growing  importance  of  a  glob- 
al perspective  in  today's  world. 


WPI  Journal 


5 


Maid 


nga 


Dttt 


erence 


By  Edward  a.  Parrish 


"Because  of  the  foresight 
of  the  faculty  a  quarter 
century  ago,  the  IVPI 
Plan  already  is  the 
manifestation  of  the 
recommendations  being 
heard  on  the  national 
scene.  This  suggests  to 
me  that  WPI  can  be 
recognized  as  a  world 
leader  among  compre- 
hensive, technological 
institutions  in  providing 
the  new  liberal 
education.'''' 


I  stand  before  you  to  accept  the  office  of  presi- 
dent. I  pledge  to  uphold  the  standards  estab- 
lished by  my  predecessors  and  to  do  my  utmost 
to  maintain  the  high  quality  of  this  great  institu- 
tion. My  confidence  in  accepting  this  charge  is 
fortified  by  the  presence  of  a  strong  and  dedicated 
faculty,  a  committed  staff,  and  loyal  students  and 
alumni,  who  together  provide  the  administration 
an  able  partner  with  which  to  meet  the  demands 
and  to  seize  the  opportunities  of  the  future. 
Today's  ceremony  honors  WPI  and  its 
founders,  as  well  as  the  entire  WPI  community — 
past  and  present.  The  founding  principles  estab- 
lished by  John  Boynton  and  Ichabod  Wrashburn 
still  serve  this  institution  well  today.  Since  WPI  is 
the  third  oldest  private  university  of  engineering 
and  science  in  the  United  States,  these  principles 
have  been  in  place  for  a  very  long  time. 

It  is  appropriate  here  to  reflect  on  the  forma- 
tive years  of  WTI.  Through  the  generosity  of 
Boynton,  Washburn  and  the  citizens  of  Worcester, 
WPI  was  chartered  officially  on  May  10,  1865.  Our 
first  two  buildings,  Boynton  Hall  and  the  Wash- 
burn Shops,  greeted  incoming  students  about  three 
years  later.  They  went  to  classes  in  Boynton  Hall 
and  put  theory  into  practice  in  the  Washburn  Shops. 
The  towers  of  these  two  buildings  came  to  symbol- 
ize the  balance  of  theory  and  practice  that  has  been 
at  the  heart  of  WPFs  educational  philosophy  ever 
since,  and  so  was  born  the  Two  Towers  Tradition. 
This  philosophy  became  the  basis  for  many  of  the 
well-known  engineering  schools  established  in  the 
latter  part  of  the  19th  century,  including  Georgia 
Institute  of  Technology  and  Rose-Hulman  Univer- 
sity. Thus,  even  in  its  youth,  WPI  was  already  mak- 


ing a  difference  far  beyond  its  own  campus. 

On  the  occasion  of  his  inauguration  on  Oct. 
22,  1925,  President  Ralph  Earle  spoke  of  WPI's 
close  relationship  with  local  manufacturing  indus- 
tries. "All  these  industries  have  kept  pace  with  the 
work  of  the  world,  they  are  in  the  forefront  of  mech- 
anical advance,"  he  said.  "With  all  are  connected 
graduates  of  this  college,  for  in  both  high  and  low 
degree  they  are  identified  with  Worcester's  place  in 
our  industrial  world,  while  80  percent  of  our  grad- 
uates are  doing  men's  work  in  other  cities  of  our 
nation."  It  is  clear  from  his  remarks  that  WPI's 
graduates  were  also  making  a  difference. 

Twenty-five  years  ago,  the  faculty  of  WPI 
extended  the  Two  Towers  tradition  in  a  bold  new 
approach  to  undergraduate  technological  educa- 
tion that  continues  today.  Called  the  WTI  Plan, 
this  program  combines  traditional  course  work 
and  laboratory  instruction  with  three  mandatory 
projects  that  challenge  student  teams  to  cope  with 
open-ended  issues.  For  the  benefit  of  our  guests, 
let  me  briefly  explain. 

The  first  project  is  called  the  Sufficiency.  Sci- 
ence and  engineering  students  must  complete  a 
project  on  a  theme  emerging  from  an  elective 
series  of  courses  in  the  humanities  or  arts;  like- 
wise, humanists  must  do  a  project  in  science  or 
engineering.  Second,  all  students  must  complete 
the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project,  whose  domain 
is  the  intersection  of  science,  technology  and  cul- 
ture; the  project  emphasizes  the  impact  of  tech- 
nology on  society.  Finally,  they  must  complete  the 
Major  Qualifying  Project,  which  involves  prob- 
lems typical  of  those  found  in  their  professional 
disciplines  and  which  often  addresses  economical, 
ethical  and  safety  issues.  These  qualifying  projects 
are  far  from  trivial;  each  requires  a  substantial  part 
of  an  academic  year.  Frequently,  projects  are 
sponsored  by  outside  agencies  to  whom  students 
must  present  their  oral  and  written  reports. 

About  20  years  ago,  the  faculty  began  devel- 
oping off-campus  project  centers  around  the 
world  that  now  range  from  London  to  San  Fran- 
cisco to  Venice  to  South  America  to  Thailand. 
WPI  students  have  many  opportunities  to  work  in 
teams  for  a  seven-week  term  at  one  of  these  resi- 
dential project  centers.  Often  their  projects  con- 
tribute to  solving  complex  problems  of  a  local 
community.  Further,  under  faculty  guidance, 
graduate  students  here  on  campus  are  engaged  in 
leading-edge  research  with  outcomes  that  con- 
tribute to  the  solution  of  vexing  problems  and  to 
the  nation's  wealth  of  knowledge.  Here,  then,  we 
see  WPI  students  making  a  difference. 

Today,  we  hear  clarion  calls  for  massive 
changes  in  higher  education.  Industry  has  been 
especially  vocal,  asserting  that  there  is  too  much 

DECEMBER  1996 


mum 


science  in  technological  curricula.  The  belief  is 
that  graduates  are  well-grounded  in  theory,  but 
are  unprepared  for  practice.  Furthermore,  there 
are  calls  for  a  broad  technological  education,  what 
I  refer  to  as  the  new  liberal  education,  to  enable 
graduates  to  adapt  to  new  technologies  and 
unforeseen  branches  in  career  paths.  The  rapidly 
changing  global  marketplace  is  resulting  in  grow- 
ing competition  among  nations  and  now  adds  a 
new  dimension  to  educational  requirements.  This 
afternoon's  symposium  will  provide  another  forum 
for  raising  these  and  other  issues.  [See  page  8  for 
a  report  on  the  symposium.] 

As  a  result  of  these  growing  concerns,  several 
national  studies  have  led  to  specific  recommenda- 
tions. Among  those  repeated  most  often  are  the 
following:  incorporate  hands-on  experiences  into 
programs  rather  than  rely  just  on  the  classroom; 
develop  teamwork  as  well  as  individual  capabili- 
ties; improve  students'  communication  skills;  pro- 
vide the  broad  education  necessary  for  students  to 
understand  the  impact  of  technology  in  a  global 
societal  context;  and  instill  a  recognition  of  the 
need  for  and  an  ability  to  engage  in  lifelong  learn- 
ing. As  one  of  a  relatively  small  number  of  tech- 
nological universities  in  the  country,  I  believe 
WPI  has  a  special  responsibility  in  helping  to 
meet  these  challenges. 

It  is  in  these  challenges  that  I  envision  great 
opportunities  for  WPI  over  the  next  decade.  Be- 
cause of  the  foresight  of  the  faculty  a  quarter  cen- 
tury ago,  the  WPI  Plan  already  is  the  manifesta- 
tion of  the  recommendations  being  heard  on  die 
national  scene.  This  suggests  to  me  that  WPI  can 
be  recognized  as  a  world  leader  among  compre- 
hensive, technological  institutions  in  providing 
the  new  liberal  education.  For  example,  regional 
and  specialized  accreditation  bodies  are  bringing 
their  standards  into  conformance  with  these  rec- 
ommended changes,  in  effect  reflecting  key  attrib- 
utes of  the  WPI  Plan.  This  fall  WPI  will  partici- 
pate in  one  of  two  experimental  evaluations  being 
conducted  by  the  agency  that  accredits  engineer- 
ing programs.  These  visits  will  be  the  bases  for 
case  studies  to  be  used  for  training  purposes  with- 
in the  agency  and  by  other  institutions  that  will 
undergo  evaluations  in  the  future. 

\s  another  example,  the  National  Institute  of 
Standards  and  Technology  has  proposed  a  new 
Education  Category  under  the  Malcolm  Baldrige 
National  Quality  Award.  The  draft  education  cri- 
teria parallel  those  of  the  existing  Baldrige  Award 
and  are  based  upon  core  values  that  are  at  the  very 
heart  of  WPI:  learning-centered  education  and 
leadership.  Here  again,  the  principal  concern  is 
with  outcomes,  and  so  the  WPI  Plan  would 
appear  a  natural  fit.  This  is  strong  confirmation 


that  the  educational  philosophy  bound  up  in  the 
Two  Towers  Tradition  is  likely  to  be  widely  rec- 
ognized and  adopted. 

\1\  point  in  mentioning  these  examples  is  to 
say  that  this  institution  has  been  quietly  (too  qui- 
etly, in  fact)  out  in  front  for  many  years.  Thus,  I 
believe  that  WPI  is  positioned  to  lead  the  cultural 
change  that  will  be  required  of  faculties  across  the 
country  to  implement  what  for  them  will  be  a  new 
approach  to  education. 

A  cultural  change  is  indeed  required,  as  many 
faculty  members  are  not  accustomed  to  spending 
quality  time  with  undergraduate  students — espe- 
cially' directing  student  teams  engaged  in  mean- 
ingful project  work.  About  six  years  ago  the 
National  Science  Foundation  established  several 
coalitions  to  address  educational  reform.  Thus  far, 
over  $100  million  has  been  expended  in  support 
of  some  60  institutions.  A  progress  report  last 
month  indicated  considerable  difficulty  in  assess- 
ing outcomes  of  these  new  programs, 
along  with  organizational  problems. 

The  most  telling  difficulty,  how- 
ever, was  embodied  in  statements 
like,  "We  have  learned  that  faculty 
members  are  key  to  establishing  edu- 
cational reform,  but  that  they  often 
prefer  not  to  participate  in  the 
process.  While  deans  may  see  the 
need  for  change,  the  faculty,  as  a 
whole,  often  does  not."  Another 
states,  "Our  biggest  problems  have 
been  dealing  with  the  educational 
community's  overall  resistance  to 
change  and  with  the  structures  of  the 
universities  that  inhibit  innovation." 

WPI  solved  many  of  these  prob- 
lems years  ago  and  by  leading  the 
cultural  change  will  again  be  making 
a  difference.  We  can  begin  to  do  so, 
for  example,  through  additional  fac- 
ulty presentations  on  pedagogical 
research  at  national  meetings, 
through  a  planned  major  education 
conference  at  WPI  in  response  to 
this  afternoon's  symposium,  and  by 
offering  workshops  to  faculty  from 
other  institutions. 

We  cannot  afford  to  be  complacent,  however. 
As  Will  Rogers  said,  "Even  if  you're  on  the  right 
track,  you'll  get  run  over  if  you  just  sit  there."  We 
must  continue  to  reduce  costs  as  well  as  identify 
new  resources  to  meet  our  future  needs.  Our 
efforts  to  expand  the  base  of  applicants  for  WPI's 
programs  must  be  redoubled,  with  due  attention 
to  various  diversity  issues.  The  WPI  Plan  should 
be  continuously  improved,  refined  and  extended 


"We  cannot  afford  to  be 
complacent,  however. 
As  Will  Rogers  said, 
'Even  if  you're  on  the 
right  track,  you  11  get 
run  over  if  you  just  sit 
there.' " 


WPI  JOURNAL 


"I  want  to  say  to  my 

faculty  colleagues  that, 

as  individuals,  you  are 

our  leaven  for  making 

a  difference.. . . It  is 

nearly  impossible  to 

measure  your  impact 

as  it  radiates  through 

your  students  like 

ripples  in  a  pond. " 


to  incorporate  the  freshman  year  and  even  the 
master's  level  within  our  graduate  program.  Our 
international  programs  should  be  strengthened, 
with  even  greater  opportunities  for  students  to 
develop  cultural  awareness  and  foreign  language 
skills  as  part  of  their  project  work. 

The  graduate  program  also  needs  strategic 
examination  and  support  to  bring  it  more  into  the 
campus  mainstream.  We  must  continue  to  integrate 
our  scholarly  research  and  teaching  efforts  and  to 
develop  further  concepts  like  ethics  and  academic 
honesty  within  all  our  educational  programs. 
Beyond  academics,  we  need  to  address  additional 
quality-of-life  issues  on  campus.  For  example,  we 
badly  need  a  campus  center,  a  facility  I  believe  was 
first  proposed  in  1925.  Other  strategic  needs  are 
being  identified  and  will  be  prioritized  in  the  coming 
year  with  the  help  of  the  entire  WPI  community. 

In  closing,  I  want  to  say  to  my  faculty  col- 
leagues that,  as  individuals,  you  are  our  leaven  for 
making  a  difference.  You  contribute  as  teachers,  as 
advisors,  as  scholars,  as  role  models,  and  as  friends 
of  your  students.  It  is  nearly  impossible  to  measure 
your  impact  as  it  radiates  through  your  students 
like  ripples  in  a  pond.  Let  me  illustrate  this  point. 

In  my  senior  year,  one  of  my  teachers  at  the 
University  of  Virginia,  Prof.  Eugene  McVey,  asked 
me  to  join  his  research  team  and  pursue  graduate 
work.  I  had  already  accepted  a  job  with  the  New- 
port News  Shipyard  and  had  never  even  considered 
graduate  school.  I  gained  release  from  the  job  com- 
mitment and  went  on  to  complete  my  master's  and 
doctorate.  This  led  to  a  faculty  appointment;  1 0 
years  later,  I  was  asked  to  chair  the  Department  of 
Electrical  Engineering.  That,  in  turn,  led  to  my 
becoming  dean  of  the  School  of  Engineering  at 
Vanderbilt  University.  Finally,  here  I  am  today  in 
the  midst  of  this  ceremony  rather  than  at  some  dry- 
dock  in  Virginia.  Clearly,  Gene  McVey  changed 
my  life.  I  have  tried  to  repay  him  by  mentoring  my 
own  students.  Some  of  them  are  now  faculty  mem- 
bers who  help  their  students,  and  so  these  ripples 
continue  to  propagate.  Each  member  of  this  faculty 
is  an  important  part  of  a  similar  dynamic. 

I  hope  that  as  president  I,  too,  can  make  a  dif- 
ference. However,  realizing  that  I  am  the  14th 
president  to  serve  WPI  is  sobering.  It  brings 
home  the  fact  that  each  president  has  but  a  short 
time  to  hold  the  baton  before  passing  it  on  to  a 
successor.  The  obligation  to  take  a  long  view  that 
extends  well  beyond  one's  own  tenure  is  thus  very 
compelling.  I  intend  to  meet  this  obligation  to  the 
best  of  my  ability.  I  look  forward  to  working  with 
the  trustees,  the  provost  and  other  officers,  the 
faculty,  the  students,  the  staff,  and  the  alumni  in 
turning  our  challenges  into  opportunities  and, 
together,  making  a  difference. 


Oetting  \Jn 
\WtktkeJoD 

fCk 


o 


In 


ange 


h 


j 


a  special  inaugural  symposium, 
ei3nt  leaders  rrom  academia, 
industry  and  the  accreditation 
community  looked  to  the  future 
or  technological  education  in  the 
United  Jtates. 


The  world  of  work  has  changed  dramatically. 
Today's  technological  professionals  enter  a 
workplace  transformed  by  mergers,  down- 
sizing, the  globalization  of  business  and  industry, 
the  incredible  pace  of  technological  change,  and 
the  growing  importance  of  small,  entrepreneurial 
companies.  To  succeed  in  this  new  world,  they 
need  more  than  a  strong  technical  education.  They 
need  a  set  of  skills  and  abilities  that  most  science 
and  engineering  programs  don't  currently  provide, 
or  provide  well.  For  that  reason,  technological 
higher  education  in  the  country  must  change — and 
change  quickly. 

That  was  the  conclusion  of  a  symposium  held 
in  conjunction  with  the  inauguration  of  WPI 
President  Edward  Parrish.  "The  New  Liberal 
Education  for  the  Age  of  Technology"  brought 
together  eight  leaders  from  academia,  industry 
and  the  accreditation  community  to  discuss  the 
state  of  technological  higher  education  and  to 
make  recommendations  for  its  future.  In  addition 
to  Parrish,  the  panelists  were  Eleanor  Baum,  dean 
of  the  School  of  Engineering  at  Cooper  Union; 
Douglas  Bowman,  director  of  electronics  and 
information  technology  at  Lockheed  Martin  Cor- 
poration; Frederick  E.  Hutchinson,  president  of 
the  University  of  Maine;  David  A.  Kettler,  execu- 
tive director  of  science  and  technology  at  Bell- 
South Corporation;  Mark  M.  Little,  vice  presi- 
dent for  power  generation  engineering  at  GE 
Power  Systems;  and  George  D.  Peterson,  execu- 
tive director  of  the  Accreditation  Board  for  Engi- 
neering and  Technology.  The  moderator  was 


8 


DECEMBER  1996 


Joseph  Hinchey,  chair  of  the  board  of  trustees  of 
Union  College. 

In  brief  remarks  that  opened  the  two-hour 
panel  discussion,  Bowman  explained  why  many 
corporations  today  have  an  abiding  interest  in  the 
state  of  technological  education.  "More  than  mar- 
ket share — more  than  almost  anything  else — the 
future  of  our  business  depends  on  the  quality  of 
the  scientists  and  engineers  we  hire." 

Bowman  said  those  new  hires  must  be  pre- 
pared to  work  in  an  environment  that  differs 
greatly  from  the  workplace  of  just  10  years  ago. 
"We  used  to  have  small  design  teams  and  lone 
engineers,"  he  said.  "But  the  lone  engineer  has 
gone  the  way  of  the  Lone  Ranger.  Today  we  work 
in  multidisciplinary  teams  that  need  not  be  co- 
located  geographically,  or  even  limited  by  political 
boundaries.  Work  on  projects  can  continue  24 
hours  a  day  as  the  sun  moves  around  the  Earth. 
And  professionals  must  be  able  to  adapt  to  the 
staggering  pace  of  technological  change.  For 
example,  the  division  that  employs  the  largest 
number  of  people  at  Lockheed  Martin — software 
engineering — didn't  even  exist  15  years  ago." 

While  industry  will  always  look  to  hire  engi- 
neers and  scientists  who  have  received  solid  techni- 
cal educations,  today  they  also  seek  graduates  who 
know  how  to  apply  that  knowledge  to  real  prob- 
lems, Little  noted.  "We  are  looking  for  students 
who  have  the  breadth  to  go  beyond  the  intellectual 
application  ot  technology  to  the  real-world  applica- 
tion." Just  as  important,  Bowman  added,  students 
need  to  understand  the  context  in  which  they  will 


create  those  applications.  "Today,  many  engineer- 
ing decisions  are  made  independent  of  the  engi- 
neering and  technology  that  might  go  into  a  specif- 
ic product.  There  are  often  social,  political  and 
economic  factors  to  consider,  as  well." 

"We  require  the  students  we  hire  to  demon- 
strate their  communicative  abilities — written  and 
oral,"  noted  Kettler.  "We  want  to  see  if  they  can 
sell  an  idea.  They  will  be  immersed  in  project 
activity  with  people  from  different  backgrounds 
and  different  disciplines,  and  technological  profes- 
sionals have  to  be  able  to  articulate  their  views  so 
those  who  have  no  insight  into  the  technology  will 
feel  part  of  the  team.  Lifelong  learning  is  also 
important.  The  half-life  of  an  undergraduate  elec- 
trical engineering  degree  is  now  on  the  order  of 
five  years — if  that  long.  Because  the  technology  is 
changing  so  fast,  students  must  gain  the  learning, 
decision  and  analytical  skills  they  will  need  to 
move  forward." 

There  is  no  doubt  that  technological  educa- 
tion must  change  to  prepare  graduates  who  pos- 
sess these  qualities.  The  question,  Baum  observed, 
is  how  to  accomplish  that  change.  "How  do  you 
do  all  that  within  a  traditional  engineering  pro- 
gram? The  way  you  don't  do  it  is  to  just  keep 
adding  courses.  You  have  to  rethink  the  way  you 
teach,  and  the  way  you  integrate  knowledge  from 
various  disciplines,  and  not  be  so  terribly  involved 
in  being  a  conveyor  of  information.  You  have  to 
help  your  students  develop  the  versatility  they 
need  to  change  as  their  careers  change,  as  tech- 
nology changes,  and  as  society  changes.  So  the 


"You  have  to  rethink  the  way 
you  teach,  and  the  way  you 
integrate  knowledge  from 
various  disciplines,  and 
not  be  so  terribly  involved 
in  being  a  conveyor  of 
information. " 
— Eleanor  Baum 


"The  half-life  of  an 
undergraduate  electiical 
engineering  degree  is  now 
on  the  order  of  five  years — 
if  that  long.  Because  the 
technology  is  changing  so 
fast,  students  must  gain 
the  learning,  decision  and 
analytical  skills  they  need  to 
more  forward." 
— David  Kettler 


WPI  JOURNAL 


"You  can  V  do  all  this  in 

four  years  if  you  want  to 

retain  a  strong  technical 

core.  If  we  are  going  to 

embellish  the  curriculum 

with  these  other  necessary 

skills,  we  need  more  time — 

possibly  five  years. " 

— George  Peterson 


"For  most  of  our  histories 

we've  operated  in  a  growth 

mode.  But  things  are 

different  now  and  it  looks 

like  that  will  be  so  for  a  long 

time.  We  are  having  to  set 

priorities  as  we  've  never 

had  to  before. " 

— Frederick  Hutchinson 


main  thing  we  have  to  do  is  teach  students  how  to 
learn  on  their  own." 

Peterson  said  the  same  approach  should  be 
taken  to  broadening  the  liberal  component  of 
technological  education  programs.  "Don't  simply 
add  a  course  in  the  humanities  or  a  course  called 
'The  Impact  of  Technology'  and  conclude  that 
you've  satisfied  that  objective,"  he  said. 

He  added  that  for  a  revised  technological  cur- 
riculum to  be  effective,  it  must  have  a  clear  set  of 
objectives  and  that  these  must  be  clearly  commu- 
nicated to  students.  "When  the  expected  out- 
comes are  clear  to  students,  the  courses  they  take 
will  make  more  sense.  And  since  you  will  be 
focused  on  producing  a  product  you've  advertised 
to  your  students,  you  can  get  away  from  the  idea 
of  adding  courses  and  instead  integrate  the  liberal 
arts  and  technology  throughout  the  curriculum." 

Parrish  said  colleges  and  universities  also  need 
to  rethink  the  way  they  deliver  a  technological 
education.  To  deal  with  the  rising  cost  of  teaching 
engineering  and  science,  they  will  need  to 
improve  the  efficiency  of  their  educational  pro- 
grams without  eroding  their  quality.  "We  have  to 
get  our  rising  costs  under  control  or  we  will  be 
out  of  business,"  he  said.  "We  can't  continue  to 
have  the  escalating  costs  that  have  pressed  us  over 
the  past  few  years." 

"For  most  of  our  histories  we've  operated  in  a 
growth  mode,"  Hutchinson  said.  "But  things  are 
different  now  and  it  looks  like  that  will  be  so  for  a 
long  time.  We  are  having  to  set  priorities  as  we've 
never  had  to  before.  As  we  do  so,  we  have  to  be 
clear  about  those  priorities." 

Parrish  described  an  ongoing  experiment  at 
WPI,  funded  by  the  Davis  Educational  Founda- 
tion, that  trains  students  to  help  teach  other  stu- 
dents. These  peer  learning  assistants  help  increase 
the  effectiveness  of  faculty  members  "without 
simply  adding  more  students  to  the  classroom. 
We  also  have  the  promise  of  educational  technol- 
ogy, which  we've  been  hearing  about  for  decades," 
he  said.  Now,  however,  with  the  World  Wide 


Web,  multimedia  and  so  on,  the  technology-  has 
reached  a  point  where  we  have  some  powerful 
ways  to  engage  students  and  lower  the  cost  of 
education,  without  negatively  impacting  quality." 

Noting  that  "the  days  are  gone  when  universi- 
ties could  be  all  things  to  all  people,"  Baum  said 
educational  institutions  today  can  further  increase 
their  efficiency  and  hold  down  costs  by  entering 
into  partnerships  with  other  colleges  and  universi- 
ties to  share  programs  and  resources.  "We  can  col- 
laborate with  neighboring  institutions,"  she  said. 
"And  with  the  Internet,  our  neighborhood  can  be 
the  whole  world.  These  partnerships  may  not  bring 
down  the  costs  of  our  programs  dramatically,  but 
they  can  help  us  provide  a  quality  education  for 
students  while  we  hold  the  line  on  costs." 

Even  with  increased  efficiency  and  the  sharing 
of  resources,  technological  universities  may  find  it 
difficult  to  provide  students  a  sound  technological 
education  and  equip  them  with  the  attributes  they 
need  to  succeed  in  today's  workplace  in  the  span 
of  a  traditional  four-year  undergraduate  program, 
Peterson  noted.  "You  can't  do  all  this  in  four 
years  if  you  want  to  retain  a  strong  technical 
core,"  he  said.  "If  we  are  going  to  embellish  the 
curriculum  with  these  other  necessary  skills,  we 
need  more  time — possibly  five  years.  Will  indus- 
try pay  for  that  additional  time,  perhaps  in  higher 
entry  salaries?" 

"That  depends,"  Kettler  said,  "on  what  is 
added  in  that  fifth  year.  Colleges  and  universities 
are  delivering  a  product — their  graduates.  If 
industry'  can  find  a  product  it  wants  and  can  work 
in  partnership  with  academia  to  deliver  this  prod- 
uct, they  will  pay  for  it." 

As  the  symposium  concluded,  the  panelists 
agreed  that  there  is  considerable  reason  for  opti- 
mism. They  pointed  particularly  to  the  growing 
national  consensus  within  industry,  academia,  and 
a  wide  range  of  organizations  with  an  interest  in 
maintaining  the  nation's  technical  and  economic 
competitiveness  on  the  need  for  reform  in  techno- 
logical education,  and  to  the  vision  that  is  emerg- 
ing for  how  technological  education  should 
evolve.  It  is  a  vision  that  points  to  a  solution  not 
unlike  WPI's  own  project-based,  outcome-oriented 
program,  the  WPI  Plan. 

"We  are  at  a  stage  where  people  recognize 
that  engineering  education  needs  to  change, 
where  accrediting  agencies  are  encouraging  that 
kind  of  change,  and  where  partnerships  are  being 
formed  to  bring  that  change  about,"  Baum  said. 
"Getting  on  with  the  job  is  now  the  challenge.  I 
think  you  are  fortunate  at  WPI  because  your  pres- 
ident is  the  person  who  has  the  vision  to  really 
meet  the  challenge." 

—MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


10 


DECEMBER  1996 


nmmiwm 


THE  YEAR   IN   REVIEW  <>  THE  YEAR   IN   PREVIEW 


Eventful  Year  Prelude  to 
Exciting  Era  of  Opportunity 


THE  PLANETS  ARE  ALIGNED." 
That's  a  phrase  heard 
often  on  campus  these 
days.  Attributed  to  WPI  Presi- 
dent Edward  A.  Parrish,  it  is  an 
apt  way  of  summing  up  what 
may  well  be  one  of  the  most 
important  periods  in  WTT's 
history,  a  brief  window  of  time 
during  which  an  extraordinary  con- 
fluence of  events  and  activities  will 
provide  the  university  an  opportunity 
to  seize  the  national  spotlight  and  gain 
widespread  recognition  for  its  pioneering 
efforts  in  technological  education. 

The  momentum  began  building  dur- 
ing a  frenzied  month  last  spring,  when 
five  major  events  brought  hundreds 
of  visitors  to  campus.  It  has  con- 
tinued into  the  current  year  as 
WPI  serves  as  one  of  only  two 
institutions  across  the  nation  pilot- 
testing  a  set  of  new  outcome-oriented 
criteria  for  engineering  accreditation.  And  it 
will  be  enhanced  by  an  ambitious  strategic 
planning  process  recently  set  in  motion  that 
will  enable  the  university  to  chart  a  new 
'direction  for  the  decades  ahead  and  set  the 
stage  for  a  new  capital  campaign. 

"We  have  a  number  of  planets  lined 
up  right  now,"  Parrish  says.  "We're  turning 
out  the  right  kind  of  graduate  for  today's 
world.  We're  way  ahead  in  project-based 
education  and  in  providing  global  opportu- 
nities. In  fact,  several  major  national  studies 
have  made  recommendations  for  change 
in  technological  education  that  are  already 
manifested  in  the  educational  program  we 
pioneered  25  years  ago.  Through  an  ongo- 
ing strategic  planning  process,  we  have  the 
opportunity  to  focus  on  the  objectives  that 
will  enable  us  to  take  advantage  of  the  sig- 
nificant opportunities  we  have  before  us 
and  to  raise  the  funds  we  need  to  achieve 
those  objectives.  Things  just  don't  line  up 
like  this  even'  year!" 


Here  is  a  review  of  the  highlights 
of  the  1995-96  academic  year  and 
a  look  ahead  at  what's  on  tap  for 
the  current  academic  year. 

The  Year  Past 

A  Month  To  Remember 

They  called  it  "April  Madness." 
In  the  short  span  of  a  month, 
WPI  rededicated  a  building, 
observed  the  centennial  of  an  acad- 
emic department,  welcomed  the  crew 
of  a  space  mission,  and  (in  two  separate 
events)  celebrated  the  silver  anniversary 
of  its  pioneering  undergraduate  program. 
It  was  a  month  to  glory  in  WPI's  storied 
past  and  to  gaze  into  its  future. 
The  Roman  god  Janus  was  the  guardian  of  Nowhere  was  that  more  true 

gates  and  doors.  His  two  faces  look  simultaneously  to        than  at  the  two  events  organized  to 
the  past  and  the  future.  Like  Janus,  our  report  this  year     focus  attention  on  the  25th  anni- 
looks  backward  and  forward  to  capture  an  impor-  versary  of  the  WPI  Plan.  The 

tant  period  of  transition  at  the  university.  first,  Project  Presentation  Day 

(April  1 8),  gave  the  WPI  community 


The  WPI  Plan's  25th  anniversary  was 
observed  on  Project  Presentation  Day, 
top,  and  Commemoration  Day,  which 
included  a  panel  discussion  of  WPI's 
next  25  years,  bottom. 


and  the  companies  and  organizations  that 
sponsor  WPI's  student  projects  a  chance  to 
see  the  remarkable  things  students  accom- 
plish in  their  three  required  Plan  projects. 
The  more  than  250  student  presentations 
(mostly  of  Major  Qualifying  Projects) 
offered  a  never-before-seen  panoramic  view 
of  what  students  can  do  if  given  the  freedom 
and  the  opportunity  to  spread  their  intellec- 
tual wings. 

The  second  Plan  event,  Commemor- 
ation Day  (April  23),  was  an  opportunity 
to  look  back  and  peer  ahead.  A  luncheon 
brought  together  the  men  and  women  who 
drafted  the  Plan,  implemented  it  and  evalu- 
ated its  progress  to  recall  some  of  the  most 
eventful  and  important  days  in  WPI's  histo- 
ry. In  a  panel  discussion  that  afternoon,  the 
authors  of  five  invited  papers  presented  their 
visions  of  the  next  25  years  at  WPI;  David 
Warsh,  syndicated  economics  columnist  for 
the  Boston  Globe  and  Chicago  Tribune,  was  the 
keynote  speaker.  The  day  concluded  with 


WPI  Journal 


11 


THE     YEAR      IN      REVIEW 


the  annual  faculty  convoca- 
tion and  a  gala  reception  for 
the  WPI  community-  (For 
more  on  the  Plan's  25th 
anniversary  and  a  report  on 
the  invited  papers,  see  the 
October  1996  WPI  Journal.) 

The  centennial  of  the 
Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering  Department 
was  observed  on  April  19. 
The  department  welcomed 
its  alumni  and  other  guests  to 
an  open  house,  a  panel  dis- 
cussion and  a  reception  and 
dinner.  The  panel,  made  up 
of  ECE  faculty  members  and 
alumni,  engaged  in  a  spirited 
debate  about  where  the  next 
100  years  may  take  the  field 
of  electrical  engineering.  At 
the  dinner,  guests  enjoyed  a 
talk  by  William  R.  Grogan 
'46EE,  dean  emeritus  of 
undergraduate  studies,  who 
described  the  early  years  of 
the  department.  (For  more 
on  the  early  history  of  electri- 
cal engineering  at  WPI,  see 
"An  Electric  Century"  in  the 
Spring  1996  Journal.) 

On  April  29,  the  focus 
was  the  rededication  of 
Higgins  Laboratories. 
Completed  in  1942  as  the 
second  home  on  campus  for 
mechanical  engineering  (the  first  was  Strat- 
ton  Hall),  the  building  was  completely 
refurbished  and  expanded  beginning  in 
1994.  Ready  for  the  start  of  the  1995  fall 
semester,  the  all-new  Higgins  Labs  includes 
a  17,000-square-foot  addition  that  houses 
classrooms  and  labs,  as  well  as  an  elevator 
and  the  mechanical,  electrical  and  plumbing 
systems  for  the  entire  building.  Among  the 
new  facilities  created  in  the  $8.5  million 
renovation  is  the  Design  Studio,  a  suite 
of  labs  and  a  multimedia  classroom  that  is 
the  centerpiece  of  a  new  way  of  teaching 
engineering  design.  (For  more  on  the  ren- 
ovations, see  "A  Mechanical  Marvel"  in  the 
Spring  1996  Journal.) 

April  10  would  have  been  a  remarkable 
day  in  Worcester  if  for  nothing  more  than 
the  storm  that  left  behind  14  inches  of  snow. 
But  the  real  excitement  at  WPI  that  day  was 
caused  by  the  arrival  of  eight  true  heroes. 
All  but  one  member  of  the  crew  of  STS-73, 
the  16-day  scientific  mission  that  flew  on  the 
space  shuttle  Columbia  in  October  1995, 
came  to  campus  for  a  day  of  activities. 


Among  them  was  Albert  Sacco  Jr.,  head  of 
the  WPI  Chemical  Engineering  Depart- 
ment and  WPI's  first  faculty  astronaut.  The 
day  included  "Countdown  to  Tomorrow," 
a  celebration  of  the  Columbia  mission  and  a 
tribute  to  the  astronauts  who  made  it  one 
of  the  most  successful  science  missions  in 
NASA's  history.  (For  more  on  Al  Sacco's 
ride  into  space,  see  "Coming  Home"  in  the 
Winter  1996  Journal. ) 

Another  Silver  Anniversary 

Just  over  a  quarter  century  ago,  while  the 
university  was  in  the  midst  of  creating  the 
WPI  Plan,  the  Computer  Science  Depart- 
ment was  making  its  debut.  In  1969,  long 
before  the  age  of  the  personal  computer, 
WPI  launched  a  graduate  program  in  com- 
puter science;  the  undergraduate  program 
began  a  year  later.  Since  then,  the  depart- 
ment has  built  a  reputation  for  excellence  in 
education  and  research.  In  1986  it  became 
one  of  the  first  departments  in  the  nation 
to  be  accredited  by  the  Computer  Science 
Accreditation  Board.  In  September  1995, 


Top,  a  student-built  hover- 
craft dominates  this  view 
of  the  large  project  lab  in 
Higgins  Laboratories  as 
guests  tour  the  renovated 
building.  Bottom,  from 
left,  Columbia  astronauts 
Ken  Bowersox,  Al  Sacco, 
Kathryn  Thornton, 
Michael  Lopez-Alegria, 
Catherine  Coleman,  Fred 
Leslie,  Glynn  Holt  and 
David  Matthiesen  during 
their  visit  to  WPI. 

the  department  hosted  a 
25th  anniversary  celebration 
in  Fuller  Laboratories,  its 
home  since  1990,  for  many 
of  its  2,000  alumni. 

New  Provost  Looks 
To  Build  on  Solid 
Foundation 

John  F.  Carney  II,  formerly 
professor  of  civil  engineering 
and  associate  dean  for 
research  and  graduate  affairs 
at  Vanderbilt  University,  was 
named  WPI's  new  provost 
and  vice  president  for  aca- 
demic affairs  this  spring. 
Carney  succeeded  Diran 
Apelian,  Howmet  Professor 
of  Mechanical  Engineering, 
who  became  head  of  the 
newly  formed  Metal  Pro- 
cessing Institute,  a  WPI 
research  group  comprising  industrial  con- 
sortia in  the  areas  of  aluminum  casting, 
powder  metallurgy  and  semisolid  metals 
processing.  William  W.  Durgin  was 
appointed  associate  provost  for  academic 
affairs,  giving  him  primary  responsibility  for 
WPI's  academic  and  research  programs.  A 
member  of  the  faculty  since  1971,  Durgin 
was  most  recendy  dean  of  graduate  studies 
and  research. 

Carney  sees  his  role  as  WPI's  chief  aca- 
demic officer  as  that  of  building  on  a  solid 
foundation,  one  that  includes  an  excellent 
faculty,  outstanding  academic  and  research 
facilities,  a  unique  project-based  undergrad- 
uate program,  and  a  global  perspective  pro- 
gram widely  regarded  as  the  leader  in  global 
technological  higher  education.  "WPI  is  a 
wonderful  technological  university  that 
doesn't  get  the  national  and  international 
recognition  it  deserves,"  he  says. 

Carney's  goals  for  the  undergraduate 
program  include  trying  to  expand  the  bene- 
fits of  project-based  education  into  the  first 
year,  a  time  when  most  students  spend  a 


12 


December  1996 


THE     YEAR     IN     REVIEW 


great  deal  of  their  time  taking  conventional 
math,  science  and  engineering  courses.  He 
says  he  would  also  like  to  see  WP1  continue 
to  evolve  into  a  broad-based  technological 
university  with  programs — such  as  the  exist- 
ing pre-health  and  pre-law  programs — that 
will  appeal  to  students  who  may  not  be 
interested  in  becoming  engineers,  but  who 
want  to  be  technically  literate  when  they 
graduate.  Such  programs  may  also  help 
WPI  increase  its  enrollment  of  women. 

Carney  says  he  would  like  to  expand  the 
full-time  graduate  program  above  its  current 
enrollment  of  about  400  students,  with  most 
of  the  increase  in  the  master's 
program.  "Industry  is  interested 
in  hiring  students  with  master's 
degrees,"  he  says.  As  an  active 
scholar  widr  more  than  140  pub- 
lications in  the  field  of  structural 
mechanics,  including  the  design 
of  impact  attenuation  devices  for 


and  two  as  head  of  the  Department  of  Civil 
Engineering  at  Auburn  University  in  Ala- 
bama, Carney  says  he  sees  himself  as  a  faculty' 
member  first  and  an  administrator  second. 
"This  is  the  first  year  that  I  will  not  be  teach- 
ing in  the  classroom,"  he  says.  "I  know  what 
faculty  members  go  through.  I  know  what  it 
takes  to  be  a  good  teacher,  to  do  research, 
to  write  proposals,  to  serve  on  committees. 
I  think  it  is  important  for  us  to  build  a  system 
of  trust  where  the  faculty  and  the  adminis- 
tration can  work  together.  I  think  we  can 
make  a  lot  of  progress,  and  I  look  forward 
to  the  challenge." 


From  the  Ground  Up 

WPI  was  not  just  a  busy  place  this  year,  it 
was  a  noisy  one,  too,  at  times.  Several  major 
construction  projects  transformed  a  WPI 
residence  hall,  a  street  and  several  laborato- 
ries. The  largest  project  was  the  renovation 
of  Sanford  Riley  I  [all,  the  university's  first 
on-campus  residence  facility.  Completed 
over  the  summer,  the  $3.3  million  project 
restored  the  building  to  its  original  glory 
and  added  a  host  of  modern  amenities, 
including  new  furniture  in  every  room,  new 
energy  efficient  windows,  and  an  elevator.  It 
was  also  the  first  step  in  a  five-year  plan  to 
renovate  the  majority  of  the 
university's  residence  halls.   The 
Ellsworth-Fuller  complex  is 
slated  to  be  overhauled  next 
summer. 

The  physical  and  psycholog- 
ical gap  between  the  east  and 
west  sides  of  the  WPI  campus 


transportation  safety  applications, 
he  says  he  would  like  to  see  a 
comparable  growth  in  externa 
support  for  research  and  scholar- 
ship. "We  have  a  unique  project- 
based  undergraduate  program 
with  a  truly  global  perspective," 
he  says.  "However,  a  balanced 
graduate  program  can  make  an 
undergraduate  program  better. 
People  with  vibrant  research  pro-       ** 
grams  are  also,  by  and  large,  wonderful 
teachers  because  they  are  staying  current  in 
their  field.  And  the  university  is  a  much 
richer  place  for  undergraduates  if  they  have 
the  opportunity  to  work  with  graduate  stu- 
dents on  cutting-edge  research." 

Having  served  in  academia  for  more 
than  30  years,  including  1 5  as  a  faculty 
member  at  the  University  of  Connecticut 


The  campus  was  bustling  with  con- 
struction work  during  the  year  as 
crews  renovated  Sanford  Riley  Hall 
(left),  turned  part  of  West  Street  into  a 
pedestrian  plaza  and  repaved  the  rest 
of  the  street  (center),  and  built  new 
research  laboratories  in  Salisbury 
Labs,  including  a  new  greenhouse  that 
provides  a  dramatic  addition  to  the 
WPI  skyline  (right). 


i«w«is  and  Engmeeis 
UN  '■ 
to  Pan 

&*n  W  Qaoe 

was  closed  this  summer  with  the 
conversion  of  a  large  section  of 
West  Street  into  a  tree-lined 
pedestrian  mall.  The  center- 
piece of  the  mall  is  Reunion 
Plaza;  its  fountain  and  stone 
benches  are  intended  to  create 
a  quiet,  contemplative  space  in 
the  center  of  the  now  united 
campus.  Also  adding  measurably 
to  the  quality  of  campus  life 
was  the  renovation  of  the  Grille,  a  popular 
campus  dining  spot  in  the  Wredge  between 
Daniels  and  Morgan  halls,  and  the  transfor- 
mation of  the  campus  bookstore  under  a  new 
owner.  Tatnuck  Bookseller  operates  the 
largest  independent  bookstore  in  Massachu- 
setts (on  Chandler  Street  in  Worcester)  and 
has  provided  the  WPI  community  with  an 
online  link  to  its  retail  outlet. 


WPI  Journal 


13 


THE     YEAR      IN      REVIEW 


WPI's  academic  and 
research  facilities  also 
received  a  major  boost 
during  the  year.  A  new 
biochemistry  laboratory 
constructed  in  Goddard 
Hall  will  serve  the  re- 
search, student  project 
and  teaching  needs  of  this 
growing  academic  disci- 
pline within  the  Depart- 
ment of  Chemistry  and 
Biochemistry.  Work  con- 
tinued throughout  the 
year  on  six  major  labora- 
tories and  supporting 
spaces  in  Salisbury  Labo- 
ratories to  be  used  for 
research  and  project  work  in  biology  and 
biotechnology.  The  $2  million  project, 
funded  jointly  by  WPI  and  the  National 
Science  Foundation,  will  result  in  state-of- 
the-art  laboratories  for  work  in  such  areas 
as  molecular  genetics,  invertebrate  zoology 
and  bioremediation.  A  new  pyramidal  green- 
house atop  the  building  will  support  work  in 
plant  physiology  and  biotechnology. 

A  New  Satellite  Launched 

The  letters  WWW  are  readily  recognized  as 
the  initials  of  the  World  Wide  Web.  At 
WPI,  they've  also  come  to  stand  for  the  uni- 
versity's campuses — Worcester,  Westboro 
and  Waltham.  With  the  opening  this  fall  of 
its  second  satellite,  WPI  now  offers  graduate 
courses  and  continuing  education  programs 
at  three  sites  in  Massachusetts. 

The  Waltham  campus  occupies  space  in 
an  office  building  just  off  Route  128  near  a 
large  concentration  of  high-technology 
companies.  A  wide  range  of  graduate  and 
continuing  education  programs  are  being 
offered  at  the  site,  including  graduate  cours- 
es and  certificate  programs  in  management 
and  computer  science,  specializing  in  com- 
puter and  communications  networks,  soft- 
ware engineering  and  interface  design,  tech- 
nology marketing  and  the  management  of 
technology.  (All  can  be  applied  to  a  WPI 
graduate  degree.)  Also  offered  are  profes- 
sional development  seminars  and  certificate 
programs  in  UNIX/C  and  C++  program- 
ming and  client-server  technology. 

The  Westboro  campus,  which  opened 
in  1988,  serves  a  high  concentration  of 
technical  and  management  professionals  in 
the  Route  495  and  Central  Massachusetts 
areas.  "Our  experience  in  Westboro,"  says 
President  Parrish,  "confirmed  our  belief  in 
the  demand  for  WPI's  programs  in  [the 
Waltham]  region." 


Left,  Que  Nguyen  '97  and  assistant  pro- 
fessor Jose  Arguello  in  the  new  bio- 
chemistry laboratory.  Right,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  1996  Strive  class;  short  for 
Strive  for  College  and  Careers  in  Math- 
ematics, Engineering  and  Science,  this 
is  a  summer  program  for  students  from 
underrepresented  minorities. 


m 

WlK                    jk1     | 

Top,  from  left,  Director  of  Continuing 
Education  Arlene  Lowenstein,  Director 
of  Graduate  Admissions  Lisa  Jernberg 
and  WPI  President  Edward  Parrish 
helped  open  WPI's  third  campus,  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  Bottom,  from  left, 
Manuel  Gomez,  director  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  Puerto  Rico,  Mayaguez,  Parrish, 
and  Stuart  Ramos,  UPRM  chancellor, 
penned  an  agreement  forging  an 
alliance  between  the  two  institutions. 


More  Highlights  of  the  Year  Past 

WPI  and  the  University  of  Puerto  Rico, 
Mayaguez  (UPRM),  home  to  the  largest 
engineering  school  in  Latin  America, 
signed  a  memorandum  of  understanding 
to  create  a  new  center  for  student  project 
work  and  academic  collaboration.  The  cen- 
ter will  be  funded  by  the  two  universities, 
Xerox  Corp.  and  the  National  Science 
Foundation.  The  agreement  marked  the 
culmination  ot  two  years  of  work  by 
Mohammad  Noori,  head  of  WPI's  Mech- 
anical Engineering  Department,  Hamid 
Davoodi  '88,  associate  professor  of  mechan- 
ical engineering  at  UPRM,  and  Mohammad 
Saffar  '89  (Ph.D.),  assistant  professor  of 
civil  engineering  at  UPRM.  It  will  be  an 
avenue  for  student  and  faculty  exchanges 
and  joint  research  projects  and  graduate 
programs.  Puerto  Rico  is  also  home  to  a 
WPI  student  project  center. 

Agreements  were  signed  for  joint 
programs  with  two  law  schools:  Suffolk 
University  Law  School  in  Boston  and 
Franklin  Pierce  Law  Center  in  Concord, 
N.H.  This  endeavor  gives  students  interest- 
ed in  using  their  engineering  or  science  edu- 
cation as  a  stepping  stone  to  careers  in  law 
(particularly  the  law  of  intellectual  property) 
the  opportunity  to  seek  early  admission  to 
either  law  school. 

WPI  was  accepted  for  membership  in 
the  National  Consortium  for  Graduate 
Degrees  for  Minorities,  furthering  its  goal 
of  providing  graduate  training  in  engineer- 
ing and  science  to  a  larger  number  of  stu- 
dents of  color.  The  consortium  provides 
WPI  with  greater  recognition  within  the 
communities  of  color,  helps  make  its  gradu- 
ate programs  financially  accessible  to  more 
underrepresented  minorities,  and  opens  the 
door  to  networking  with  other  institutions 
across  the  United  States. 


14 


December  1996 


vm^^^M-a. 


■       .  ^^^^^l^,. 


THE     YEAR     IN     PREVIEW 


Norman  R.  Augustine, 

president  and  CEO  of  Lock- 
heed Martin  Corp.,  was  the 
speaker  at  WFTs  128th 
Commencement.  Augustine 
was  awarded  an  honorary 
doctorate,  as  was  Duane  D. 
Pearsall,  inventor  of  the  first 
low-cost  hattery-powered 
smoke  detector;  Howard 
G.  Freeman  '40,  inventor 
and  founder  of  Jamesbury 
Corporation  (now  Neles- 
Jamesbury);  and  Albert  Sacco 
Jr.,  head  ofWPI's  Chemical 
Engineering  Department  and 
the  university's  first  faculty 
astronaut. 

The  Admissions 
Office  had  a  banner 
year,  with  the 
enrollment  of  the 
fifth  largest  class  in 
WPI  history.  The 
Class  of  2000  has 
689  students,  includ- 
ing 152  women  and 
41  students  of  color, 
new  records  in  both 
of  these  categories. 

Planning  for  the 
proposed  campus 
center  continued 
during  the  year. 
Having  developed  a 
program  for  a  com- 
bined campus  center 
and  recreational  facility  last 
year,  the  Campus  Center 
Committee  worked  with  Stannmar  Inc.,  a 
design-build  firm  specializing  in  athletic 
facilities,  to  conduct  a  studv  that  deter- 
mined that  it  is  feasible  to  locate  the  facility 
in  an  expanded  and  fullv  renovated  Alumni 
Gymnasium. 

WPI  was  one  of  eight  members  of  the 
Colleges  of  Worcester  Consortium  to  share 
a  $44,880  grant  from  the  Department  of 
Education  Fund  for  the  Improvement  of 
Post  Secondary  Education  (FIPSE)  to  be 
used  to  develop  comprehensive  programs 
for  the  prevention  of  drug  use  and  alco- 
hol abuse  and  the  violence  associated 
with  them. 

The  offices  of  Multicultural  Affairs  and 
Minority  Student  Affairs  were  combined 
into  the  Office  of  Minority  Affairs  and 
Outreach  Programs,  which  will  focus  on 
the  recruitment  and  retention  of  minoritv 
students  and  coordinating  diversity  initia- 
tives, among  other  responsibilities. 


Norman 

preside 

Lockhe 

was 

at  WPI  sf|28t 

Commenceme 


The  Year  Ahead 

Accreditation  Going 
According  to  Plan 

This  fall,  a  team  of  visitors  from  the  Accredita- 
tion Board  for  Engineering  and  Technology, 
which  accredits  engineering  programs  at  the 
nation's  colleges  and  universities,  was  on  cam- 
pus to  evaluate  WPFs  programs  in  civil, 
chemical,  electrical,  industrial,  manufacturing 
and  mechanical  engineering.  It  is  a  visit  ABET 
has  made  periodically  for  many  decades. 

This  year's  visit  was  a  little  different, 
however.  After  a  quarter  century  that  has 
seen  ABET  and  WPI  struggle  to  measure 
the  university's  project-based  undergraduate 
program  against  the  board's  traditional 
accreditation  criteria,  ABET  adopted  a 
sweeping  new  set  of  standards  that,  much 
like  the  WTI  Plan,  emphasize  outcomes 
(what  students  learn  and  what  skills  and 
qualities  they  gain)  instead  of  process  (what 
courses  and  labs  thev  take). 


Called  Engineering  Cri- 
teria 2000,  the  new  standards 
were  developed  b\    Mil    Is 
Engineering  Accreditation 
Commission  (then  chaired  by 
WPI  President  Edward  Par- 
rish)  with  extensive  input  from 
various  engineering  societies 
and  from  the  businesses  and 
industries  that  employ  tech- 
nological professionals.  I  he 
centerpiece  of  the  new  criteria, 
Criterion  3  (see  box,  next 
page),  is  a  succinct  list  of  the 
qualities  graduates  should  take 
away  from  their  undergraduate 
education.  With  a  few  changes 
of  wording,  this  set  of  criteria 
could  easily  be  a  description  of 
the  goals  of  the  WTI  Plan, 
notes  President  Parrish.  "The 
new  ABET  criteria,  along  with 
a  number  of  national  studies  of 
the  future  of  engineering  edu- 
cation, have  indirectly  con- 
firmed that  the  WPI  Plan  is 
what  this  country  needs  in  the 
way  of  an  educational  system." 

The  new  criteria  under- 
went a  one-year  comment  peri- 
od that  led  to  approval  by  the 
full  ABET  board  in  November. 
The  criteria  will  apply  to  all 
engineering  programs  in  the 
nation  in  the  y^ear  2001,  follow- 
ing a  five-year  implementation. 

A  critical  step  in  imple- 
menting the  new  criteria  is  a 
two-year  pilot  test  program, 
a  process  in  which  WTI  is  playing  a  critical 
and  hitdiK  \  isible  role.  In  the  first  year  of 
the  test,  engineering  programs  at  one  private 
and  one  state-supported  institution  (WTI 
and  the  University  of  Arkansas)  are  being 
evaluated  under  the  new  standards.  The 
University  of  Arkansas  was  chosen  because 
it  has  just  begun  to  develop  an  outcome- 
oriented  approach  to  technological  educa- 
tion. WTI  was  selected  because,  with  more 
than  25  years  of  experience  with  the  Plan, 
it  has  a  better  feel  for  outcome-oriented 
education  than  perhaps  any  institution  in  the 
nation  and  has  much  to  teach  ABET  and  its 
member  institutions,  notes  William  W.  Dur- 
gin,  associate  provost  for  academic  affairs. 

"WTe  volunteered  to  be  accredited  under 
the  new  criteria  and  we  recognize  that  we 
have  an  important  role  to  play  in  this 
process,"  Durgin  says.  "ABET  has  had  no 
experience  conducting  this  outcome-based 
accreditation.  They  are  looking  to  WTI  for 


WTI  Journal 


15 


THE     YEAR      IN      PREVIEW 


help  in  developing  the  accreditation  proce- 
dure. The  results  of  this  experience  will 
become  a  case  study  that  will  be  used  to 
train  ABET  evaluators.  This  study  will  also 
be  distributed  to  every  engineering  depart- 
ment in  the  nation  to  provide  guidance  for 
other  schools  as  they  come  up  for  accredita- 
tion under  the  new  rules.  It  should  also 
serve  as  an  excellent  vehicle  for  creating 


ABET  CRITERIA  2000 


From  Criterion  3. 
Program  Outcomes  and  Assessment 

Engineering  programs  must  demonstrate 
that  their  graduates  have 

•  an  ability  to  apply  knowledge  of  mathe- 
matics, science  and  engineering 

•  an  ability  to  design  and  conduct 
experiments,  as  well  as  to  analyze 
and  interpret  data 

•  an  ability  to  design  a  system,  compo- 
nent or  process  to  meet  desired  needs 

•  an  ability  to  function  on  multi- 
disciplinary  teams 

•  an  ability  to  identify,  formulate  and 
solve  engineering  problems 

•  an  understanding  of  professional  and 
ethical  responsibility 

•  an  ability  to  communicate  effectively 

•  the  broad  education  necessary  to 
understand  the  impact  of  engineering 
solutions  in  a  global/societal  context 

•  a  recognition  of  the  need  for  and  an 
ability  to  engage  in  life-long  learning 

•  a  knowledge  of  contemporary  issues 

•  an  ability  to  use  the  techniques,  skills 
and  modern  engineering  tools  neces- 
sary for  engineering  practice 


national  recognition  for  what  WPI  has 
accomplished  over  the  last  25  years." 

The  ABET  accreditation  team  working 
with  WPI  this  year  is  drawn  from  the  Engi- 
neering Accreditation  Commission  itself, 
whose  members  normally  serve  as  visiting 
team  chairs.  "The  idea  is  to  train  the  team 
leaders  so  they,  in  turn,  can  train  the  more 
that  3,000  men  and  women  who  serve  on 
ABET  visiting  teams  each  year,"  Durgin  says. 

This  year's  accreditation  process  is  also 
a  learning  experience  for  WPI,  he  says. 
"While  we've  had  a  great  deal  of  experience 
delivering  an  outcome-oriented  educational 
program,  we  are  still  gaining  experience  in 
measuring  those  outcomes.  This  year,  to 
help  ABET  understand  what  students 
accomplish  under  the  Plan,  we've  selected 


at  least  six  students  in  each  department  and 
asked  them  to  compile  a  detailed  portfolio 
illustrating  the  work  they've  done  in  their 
classes,  labs  and  projects  during  their  studies 
at  WPI.  The  contents  of  their  portfolios, 
standing  alone,  should  demonstrate  the 
expected  outomes.  We'll  also  be  able  to  pre- 
sent the  results  of  the  peer  reviews  we  now 
do  for  all  three  of  the  required  Plan  projects. 
"To  prepare  for  future  accreditation  vis- 
its, we  are  now  asking  all  students  to  com- 
pile portfolios  of  their  work  at  WPI,  which 
will  also  benefit  their  career  development. 
We  hope  to  follow  these  students  for  the 
early  part  of  their  careers  to  measure  the 
impact  the  Plan  has  on  their  professional 
and  personal  lives.  We  plan  to  create  a  for- 
mal system  for  determining  what  employers 
think  of  our  graduates.  All  of  these  measures 
will  help  us  evaluate  the  success  of  our 
undergraduate  program  and  to  continually 
improve  it." 

Fast  Track  to  a  Strategic  Plan 

"Of  those  to  whom  much  is  given,  much  is 
required,"  John  F.  Kennedy  once  said. 
According  to  President  Parrish,  the  national 
educational  community  has  given  WPI  an 
invaluable  gift — the  growing  conviction  that 
something  very  much  like  the  WPI  Plan  is  the 
right  approach  for  the  future  of  technological 
higher  education.  That  conviction  provides 
the  university  with  a  precious  opportunity  to 
step  into  the  national  spodight  and  gain  well- 
deserved  recognition  as  an  educational  pace- 
setter. But  there  is  some  important  work  to  be 
done  first,  Parrish  says. 

"WPI  has  a  big  opportunity  right  now. 
A  number  of  national  studies  of  what  needs 
to  be  done  in  technological  higher  educa- 
tion— by  the  likes  of  the  National  Research 
Council,  the  American  Society  for  Engi- 
neering Education  and  the  National  Science 
Foundation — have  pointed  in  directions  that 
WPI  took  some  25  years  ago.  That's  good 
news  for  us,  but  we  can't  simply  sit  on  our 
record.  We  have  to  keep  evaluating  and 
improving  what  we're  doing.  That  requires 
strategic  planning." 

This  year  WPI  began  work  on  a  new 
strategic  plan.  WPI's  current  plan  was  com- 
pleted in  1990,  and  Parrish  says  much  has 
changed  since  its  six  major  goals  were  for- 
mulated. Perhaps  most  important,  WPI 
continues  to  face  financial  constraints, 
caused  principally  by  a  combination  of  the 
high  cost  of  operating  a  technological  edu- 
cation program  and  the  escalating  cost  of 
providing  financial  aid  to  students.  These 
costs  combine  to  continually  shrink  the  pool 
of  operating  revenue  WPI  derives  from 


tuition.  "We  need  to  stop  doing  things  as  we 
have  for  the  last  25  years  or  so,"  Parrish 
says,  "and  come  up  with  some  new  ways  of 
doing  business." 

The  process  of  drafting  a  new  strategic 
plan  began  over  the  summer  as  Parrish  and 
his  cabinet  (a  group  of  senior  administra- 
tors), soon  joined  by  the  secretary  of  the  fac- 
ulty and  the  chair  of  the  faculty  Committee 
on  Governance,  developed  a  process  for  cre- 
ating the  plan  and  drafted  a  vision  statement 
for  the  university.  At  a  retreat  this  fall,  the 
Board  of  Trustees  also  discussed  the  state  of 
the  institution  and  possible  directions  for  its 
future.  And  in  October,  60  members  of  the 
faculty  and  administration  met  in  a  weekend 
retreat  to  discuss  ways  of  bolstering  two  key 
elements  of  the  undergraduate  program,  the 
Interactive  Qualifying  Project  and  the  Glob- 
al Perspective  Program,  widely  considered 
the  elements  that  give  WPI  a  distinct  edge 
in  undergraduate  technological  education. 

"We've  had  people  coming  at  these  issues 
from  many  different  directions  and  with  dif- 
ferent ideas,"  Parrish  says.  "What's  become 
clear  to  me  from  all  of  these  discussions  is 
that  everyone — the  faculty,  the  administra- 
tion, the  students  and  the  trustees — seems  to 
have  a  shared  vision  of  WPI.  There  is  a  con- 
sensus about  our  strengths,  our  traditions, 
and  our  opportunities  for  the  future.  That's 
really  important,  because  it  gives  us  a  head 
start — we  don't  have  to  start  from  scratch. 
I've  proposed  an  ambitious  timeline  for  cre- 
ating a  new  strategic  plan.  But  as  I've 
watched  this  common  vision  emerge,  I've 
thought  to  myself,  'By  God,  we  can  do  this!'" 

The  responsibility  for  guiding  the  crea- 
tion of  the  plan  has  been  turned  over  to  the 
Strategic  Planning  Steering  Committee, 
made  up  of  the  provost,  two  academic  de- 
partment heads,  six  other  faculty  members, 
three  other  members  of  the  administration, 
one  undergraduate  student  and  one  graduate 
student.  Stephen  J.  Weininger,  professor  of 
chemistry  and  biochemistry,  is  the  chair. 
Parrish  savs  the  committee  will  involve 
many  members  of  the  WPI  community  on 
study  committees  that  will  investigate  a  wide 
variety  of  issues  as  the  planning  process 
moves  toward  completion  in  March  1997. 

"Before  the  end  of  the  academic  year, 
we  need  to  settle  on  our  goals  and  objectives 
for  the  next  decade,"  Parrish  says.  "These 
will  become  the  basis  for  the  goals  of  the 
new  capital  campaign  (see  page  18).  We 
can't  take  too  long  to  complete  this  process. 
If  we  wait  two  years  to  complete  our  strate- 
gic plan,  this  window  of  opportunity — this 
planetary  alignment — may  pass  us  by.  The 
time  to  act  is  now." 


16 


1)1  (   I  MBI  R   1996 


iiiinmniiifiminini 


.«M7«Mi»nm«nnU^,^««M«,L«^ 


FINANCIAL     SUMMARY     AND     HIGHLIGHTS 


By  Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66 

Vice  President  for  Administration,  Treasurer  and  Secretary  of  the  Corporation 


There  are  two  major  elements  ofWPI's  financial  operation. 
One  is  the  day-to-day  activity  of  the  university;  WPI  fin- 
ished the  year  with  a  surplus  of  approximately  $14,000.  The 
other  major  component  is  what  is  commonly  referred  to  as  WPI's 
endowment.  During  the  fiscal  year  the  market  value  of  assets  man- 
aged under  the  umbrella  of  the  endowment  grew  hy  $25  million,  to 
$177  million. 

Considerahle  appreciation  must  he  extended  to  the  faculty  and 
staff  for  their  management  of  the  university  during  the  year.  A  solid 
budget  was  developed,  reflecting  a  thorough  attempt  at  including 
all  expected  revenue  and  expense,  and  the  faculty  and  staff  managed 
those  resources  well,  conserved  when  and  where  possible,  and 
brought  the  budget  in  on  balance.  In  an  organization  as  diverse  as 
WPI,  this  does  not  happen  unless  everyone  is  focused  on  achieving 
financial  success. 

The  university's  endowment  is  managed  by  the  Board  of 
Trustees  with  specific  responsibility  delegated  to  the  Investment 
Committee,  chaired  by  F.  William  Marshall  Jr.  The  trustees  engage 
a  variety  ol  money  managers  to  manage  the  assets.  WPI's  total 
return  ol  18.5  percent  in  FY96  placed  us  well  ahead  of  the  national 
average  for  college  and  university  endowments  (17.2  percent).  The 
Investment  Committee's  objective  for  allocating  the  endowment's 
assets  was  that  70  percent  would  be  invested  in  equities;  at  year  end, 
about  71.5  percent  of  the  assets  was  invested  in  domestic  and  inter- 
national equities. 

During  the  year  we  executed  an  interest  rate  swap  that  will  pro- 
duce significant  interest  savings  on  our  debt  of  approximately  $40 
million  over  the  next  2.5  years.  The  swap  was  made  possible  by  the 
favorable  interest  rate  scenario  that  emerged  during  the  year. 

One  measure  of  the  strength  of  an  institution  is  its  calculated 
endowment  per  undergraduate.  At  approximately  $63,000,  WPI 
compares  favorably  in  this  regard  and  is  likely  to  be  in  the  top  100 
of  the  3,600  U.S.  colleges  and  universities  at  year's  end. 

Each  year  the  university  approves  a  spending  rule  that  applies  a 
percentage  of  the  assets  of  the  endowment  to  the  operating  budget. 
For  many  years,  the  spending  rule  has  been  5.5  percent,  about  aver- 
age for  colleges  and  universities  throughout  the  country.  The 
amount  available  is  based  upon  a  moving  average  of  the  total  mar- 
ket value  of  the  endowment  at  the  conclusion  of  tbe  previous  two 
fiscal  years.  While  it  would  be  good  to  reduce  this  rate  as  we  go 
forward,  the  operating  budget  is  partly  dependent  on  this  income, 
making  such  a  move  difficult.  Still,  the  endowment  is  the  flywheel 
that  keeps  the  university  moving  forward;  the  growth  in  the  value 
of  the  endowment  is  positive  for  the  future  of  WPI. 

For  the  last  fiscal  year  approximately  30  percent  of  tuition 
income  was  returned  in  the  form  of  financial  aid,  which  was  bud- 
geted at  $12.5  million.  This  continues  to  be  a  source  of  concern 
and  little  comfort  is  taken  from  the  fact  that  most  of  our  peer  insti- 
tutions are  experiencing  the  same  pressures  as  they  recruit  students 
who  have  a  higher  need  for  financial  aid  than  do  students  at  typical 
liberal  arts-oriented  colleges  and  universities.  While  WPI  is  for- 
tunate to  be  able  to  balance  the  budget  despite  financial  pressures, 
considerable  effort  must  be  exerted  to  find  ways  to  alleviate  these 
pressures  so  that  investments  may  be  made  in  new  programs  and 
facilities. 


Years  ended  June  30,  1996  wd  1995 

1.  General  Operating 
Funds     (Thousands  of  Dollars ) 


Tuition,  fees  and  other 
educational  revenues 

Student  financial  aid 

Cifts  and  bequests  received 

Revenues  from  sponsored 
research  programs 

Total  staff  benefit  expenses, 
before  allocation 

2.  Endowment  and  Similar 

Funds     (Thousands  of  Dollars) 


1996 

1995 

Percent 
Change 

$53,338 

$51,502 

+3.6% 

18,725 

18,636 

+0.5 

10,131 

10,574 

-4.2 

6,329 

7,871 

- 1 9.6 

7,067 

7,276 

-2.9 

1996 

1995 

Percent 
Change 

Beginning  market  values 

plus: 

Investment  results 


$154,734*    $127,600     +21.3% 


Income  (interest  and  dividends) 
Realized  and  unrealized  gains 

$5,086 
20,716 

$25,802 

(5,739) 

$4,743 
15,522 

Total  investment  results 

less: 

Used  in  support  of  college 

$20,265 

(4,545) 

+27.3 
+26.3 

Net  reinvested  in  endowment 

plus: 

Additions  to  endowments, 

mostly  from  gifts 

20,063 
2,609 

15,720 
9,087 

+27.6 
-71.3 

Ending  Market  Value 


$177,406     $152,407 


'Computed  using  new  financial  accounting  standards  adopted  by  WPlm  FY96 


Five-Year 
Summary  of 
Total  Return  Data 


'96         '95 


'94 


'93 


'92 


WPI  Total  Return 
WPI  Policy  Index 
S&P  500 

LB  G/C  Bond  Index 
CPI  Index 


18.5%  16.9%     4.0%  11.9%  12.4% 

16.6  18.5        3.2  13.5  13.5 

26.1  26.1  1.4  13.6  13.5 

4.7  12.8  -1.5  13.2  14.2 

2.8  3.1         2.5         3.0         2.8 


Copies  of  the  complete  audited  financial  reports  for  WTI  for  Fiscal 
Year  1996  can  be  obtained  by  writing  to: 

WPI 

Office  of  Business  Affairs 
100  Institute  Road 
Worcester,  MA  01609-2280 


WPI  Journal 


17 


UNIVERSITY     RELATIONS      HIGHLIGHTS 


A  Strong  Team  Moves  Forward: 

The  Year  in  University  Relations 


I  could  not  begin  this  report  without 
extending  a  special  thanks  to  Ron  Baird, 
who  filled  in  as  acting  vice  president  for 
university  relations  for  a  good  part  of  the 
past  academic  year.  While  continuing  to 
also  perform  his  duties  as  director  of  corpo- 
rate relations,  Ron  moved  the  entire  office 
forward  on  all  fronts.  It  was  with  a  great 
deal  of  regret,  but  also  with  the  recognition 
that  no  one  was  more  deserving,  that  we  in 
University  Relations  said  farewell  to  Ron 
this  past  May  as  he  moved  to  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  to  become  director  of  the  Sea 
Grant  Program  at  the  National  Oceanic 
and  Atmospheric  Administration. 

Many  of  the  efforts  of  the  Office 
of  University  Relations  during  the 
past  12  months  have  been  directed  at 
strengthening  the  office's  infrastructure. 
Moving  the  Alumni  Office  under  the 
umbrella  of  University  Relations  has 
permitted  us  to  better  allocate  resources 
and  to  increase  our  services  to  alumni 
and  other  constituencies.  As  part  of  this 
move,  we  created  a  new  team  of  Annual 
Fund  personnel  that,  for  the  first  time, 
enables  us  to  bring  together  into  one  cohe- 
sive unit  the  Alumni  Fund,  the  Parents  Fund 
and  two  new  funds:  the  Friends  Fund  and 
the  Business  and  Industry  Fund. 

In  response  to  a  request  from  the  Alum- 
ni Association  and  the  Alumni  Fund  Board, 
and  recognizing  the  importance  of  the  work 
of  both  of  these  groups,  the  university 
underscored  its  commitment  to  these  areas 
by  adding  personnel.  This  has  permitted 
the  Alumni  Affairs  Office  to  reinvigorate  its 
activities  for  students  through  the  Student 
Alumni  Society  and  to  develop  such  new 
programs  as  the  Alumni  Gateway  on  WPI's 
World  Wide  Web  site.  The  Gateway  offers 
an  online  alumni  directory,  access  to  job 
listings,  and  class  home  pages.  Likewise, 
the  Alumni  Fund  has  strengthened  its  com- 
mitment to  young  alumni  through  a  more 
active  "GOLD"  (graduates  of  the  last 


By  John  L.  Heyl 

Vice  President  for  University  Relations 


decade)  program  and  has  actively  begun  to 
re-establish  the  Class  Agents  Program. 

The  efforts  of  the  Alumni  Fund  this  past 
year  yielded  record  results.  According  to 
Anne  M.  McPartland  Dodd  75,  chair  of  the 
Alumni  Fund  Board,  the  fund  "crushed"  its 
1995-96  goal  of  $2.25  million,  raising 
$2,630,230,  plus  $3 14,489  in  matching  gifts 
(the  total  exceeded  the  record  of  $2.25  mil- 
lion set  in  1994).  Incidentally,  the  Fund 


The  efforts  of  the  Alumni  Fund 

this  past  year  yielded  record 

results.  According  to 

Anne  M.  McPartland  Dodd  '75", 

chair  of  the  Alumni  Fund 

Board,  the  fund  ^crushed" 

its  1995-96  goal. 


Board  has  set  an  ambitious  target  of  $3.2 
million  for  the  current  fund  year;  the  board 
also  hopes  to  see  the  participation  rate  for 
the  fund  rise  from  25  percent  in  1995-96  to 
30  percent  in  1996-97. 

The  extraordinary  gifts  of  two  anniver- 
sary classes  were  important  contributors  to 
the  fund's  success.  At  Reunion  in  1996, 
President  Edward  Parrish,  on  behalf  of  the 
university,  accepted  two  gifts,  each  in  excess 
of  $1  million.  The  Class  of  1946  raised  an 
amazing  $1,430,000,  a  total  that  represented 
the  participation  of  58  percent  of  the  class. 
The  unrestricted  portion  will  go  toward  the 
planned  campus  center.  The  class  of  1956 
raised  $753,304;  an  anonymous  class  mem- 
ber pledged  to  match  the  total,  bringing  the 
final  tally  to  $1,546,162.  Nearly  half  of  the 
unrestricted  portion  will  go  toward  the 
West  Street  pedestrian  plaza;  the  balance 
will  fund  a  new  multimedia  computer  labo- 
ratory. (Anniversary  class  gifts  are  raised 


over  a  three-year  period,  so  only  a  portion 
of  the  gifts  was  actually  counted  in  this 
year's  fund  total.  Both  class  gifts  included 
interest  and  corporate  matching  gifts.) 

The  President's  Advisory  Council  also 
had  a  banner  year.  The  270  members  of  the 
PAC — a  group  of  alumni,  parents  and 
friends  who  make  yearly  gifts  of  $1,500 — 
contributed  over  $2  million,  or  some  78  per- 
cent of  the  Alumni  Fund  total.  Both  of  these 
figures  represent  new  records.  During 
the  current  year,  WPI  is  observing  the 
25th  anniversary  of  the  founding  of  this 
most  generous  group. 

A  major  new  initiative  of  our  office 
is  to  increase  the  university's  visibility 
and  recognition.  We  have  developed  a 
marketing  strategy  through  which  we 
will  focus  our  energies  on  a  limited 
number  of  specific  target  markets.  In 
a  parallel  effort,  we  will  work  to  place 
WPI  before  audiences  when  and  where 
our  message  will  not  be  drowned  out 
by  the  marketing  programs  of  other 
competing  institutions.  We  are  fortunate  to 
have  received  both  guidance  and  financial 
support  from  a  number  of  trustees;  with  that 
support,  we  have  hired  PepperCom,  a  public 
relations  firm,  to  work  with  us  in  this  under- 
taking, which  we  hope  will  help  WPI 
achieve  a  level  of  recognition  equal  to  its 
superb  quality. 

Preparations  are  also  under  way  for  a 
new  capital  campaign.  While  still  in  the  ear- 
ly planning  stages,  it  is  already  clear  that  this 
fund  drive  will  be  a  volunteer  effort  of  sig- 
nificant proportions.  Seeking  funds  for  goals 
that  are  linked  directly  to  needs  developed 
through  a  communitywide  strategic  plan- 
ning effort  (see  page  16),  the  campaign  will 
reach  out  to  all  alumni  and  friends  of  WPI. 
Trustees  and  other  especially  close  friends 
will  begin  to  solicit  each  other  in  the  spring. 
Simultaneously,  we  will  begin  to  organize 
class  committees  for  an  official  major  cam- 
paign launch,  planned  for  the  spring  of  1998. 


18 


aauautMaaoMam 


,iMMMm"M'M' 


«.^a^.  u^^m^^^^^^Mw^.-^^. 


December  1996 
nm 


Volunteers 
Make  the 
Difference 


As  hard  as  we  work,  the  staff  of  the 
Office  of  University  Relations  can- 
,  not  do  the  entire  joh  of  advancing 
the  mission  of  WPI,  raising  resources 
to  assure  its  continued  growth  and 
development,  and  serving  the  needs  of 
our  alumni.  We  depend  on  the  energy, 
skills,  knowledge  and  enthusiasm  of  a 
remarkable  team  of  volunteers,  includ- 
ing the  men  and  women  who  serve  on 
the  Board  of  Trustees,  the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
the  Alumni  Council,  the  many  Alumni 
Association  working  committees,  and 
the  Alumni  Fund  Board.  Listed  below 
are  just  a  few  of  the  leaders  of  the  uni- 
versity's many  volunteer  boards  and 
committees: 

Anne  M.  McPartland  Dodd  75 
Chair,  Alumni  Fund  Board 

Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty  75 
Chair,  Alumni  Survey  Committee 

Peter  H.  Horstmann  '55 
Vice  Chair,  WTI  Board  of  Trustees 

August  C.  Kellerman  '46 
Chair,  Class  of  1946  50th  Anniversary  Gift 
Committee 

Allen  H.  Levesque  '59 
President,  WPI  Alumni  Association 

Robert  B.  Maynard  Jr.  '63 
Chair,  WTI  Alumni  Association  Master 
Plan  Committee 

Peter  D.  McDermott  73 

Alumni  Liaison,  WTI  Venture  Forum 

Samuel  W.  Alencow  '37 
Chair,  Alumni  Publications  Committee 

Patrick  T.  Moran  '65 
Chair,  Class  Boards  of  Directors 

John  M.  Nelson 
Chair,  WTI  Board  of  Trustees 

Henry  W.  Nowick  '57 
Chair,  President's  Advisory  Council 

Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45 
President,  Tech  Old  Timers 

Harry  W.  Tennev  Jr.  '56 
Chair,  Class  of  1956  40th  Anniversary  Gift 
Committee 

Harlan  B.  Williams  '50 
Chair,  Alumni  Online  Service 

Ronald  L.  Zarrella  71 
Vice  Chair,  WTI  Board  of  Trustees 


19  9  5 


WPI   HONOR   ROLL  OF  DONORS 


WPI  gratefully  acknowledges  the  support  of  the  thousands  of  individuals,  foundations  and 
corporations  whose  contributions  of  $9,953,504  in  cash  and  gifts-in-kind  through  the 
Alumni  Fund,  the  Parents  Fund,  minicampaigns  and  general  development  efforts  during 
the  1995-96  fiscal  year  (July  1,  1995,  to  June  30,  1996)  are  already  at  work  making  WPI  a 
stronger  and  more  outstanding  institution.  Space  does  not  permit  the  listing  of  all  their 
names.  An  additional  $1,976,746  was  pledged  during  the  fiscal  year.  These  commitments 
will  be  listed  in  future  reports  as  they  are  received  as  cash  or  gifts-in-kind. 


$100,000  and  above 

Fstate  of  Phyllis  E.  Aldrin  '15 

Anonymous 

Estate  of  Anna  Flarrington 

Boardman 
Commonwealth  of 

Massachusetts 
Robert  A.  Foisie  '56 
The  Foxboro  Company 
Estate  of  Laura  E.  Hansen  76 
Hewlett-Packard  Company 
Howmet  Turbine 

Components  Corp. 
MCAE  Inc. 

Alfred  A.  Molinari  Jr.  '63 
Peter  B.  Myers  '46 
Duane  D.  Pearsall 
Estate  of  William  R.  Steur 
George  I.  Alden  Trust 
United  Technologies  Corp. 
Gordon  E.  Walters  '54 

$25,000  to  $99,999 

Analog  Devices  Inc. 
Mrs.  David  C.Bailey '25 
Robert  H.Beckett '57 
Ernest  Bernstein  '56 
Martin  G.  Bromberg  '5 1 
Robert  G.  Chaplick  '45 
China  Technical 

Consultants  Inc. 
Cognex  Corporation 
Corning  Inc. 

Wilfred  L.  DeRocherJr.  '47 
Dining  and  Kitchen 

Administration  Inc. 
Exxon  Education  Foundation 
Ruth  H.  &  Warren  A. 

Ellsworth  Foundation 
Fairlawn  Foundation 
Hoche-Scofield  Foundation 
Mildred  H.  McEvoy 

Foundation 
Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation 
General  Electric  Foundation 
Raymond  R.  Hagglund  '56 
Daniel  J.  Harrington  Jr.  '50 
Milton  P.  Higgins 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  Henry 

Hough  ^'88 
IBM  Corporation 


Rolf  Jensen  &  Associates 
Charles  C.Johnston  '57 
August  C.  Kellermann  '46 
William  M.Lester  '28 
Medical  Advances  Inc. 
Motorola  Inc. 
Norton  Company 
Raymond  J.  Perreault  '38 
Procter  &  Gamble  Company 
Richard  Proutv 
Raytheon  Company 
James  A.  Robertson  '26 
Estate  of  Percy  Clayton 

Smith  '07  ' 
L.  S.  Starrett  Company 
John  H.  Sylvester  '30 
Richard  A.  Lufkin  Trust 
WPI  Alumni  Association 
Xerox  Corporation 

$10,000  to  $24,999 

Anonymous 
AT&T 

Mrs.  .Arthur  H.  Burr  '29 
CIGNA  Corporation 
EdwardS.  Coe  Jr. '31 
Daniel  I.  Coifman  '67 
Henry  J.  Ezen  '49 
Robert  H.  Farwell  '46 
Raymond  J.  Forkey  '40 
Coleman  Foundation  Inc. 
George  F.  &  Sybil  H.  Fuller 

Foundation 
The  Macamor  Foundation 
Michael  M.  Galbraith  '58 
Irving  B.  Gerber  '44 
The  Gillette  Company 
GTE  Corporation 
Michael  S.  Gutman  '58 
Hartford  Steam  Boiler 

Inspection  and 

Insurance  Co. 
Harold  F.  Henrickson  '36 
Richard  K.  Home  '48 
David  W.  Hoskinson  '57 
Ingersoll-Rand  Company 
Arthur  R.  Koerber  '40 
Gordon  B.  Lankton 
Raymond  C.  Lewis  '30 
Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Co. 
Myles  McDonoueJi 


James  G.  McKernan  '48 
Neles-Jamesbury  Corporation 
David  P.  Norton  '62 
I  loward  O.  Painter  Jr.  '58 
Peerless  Pump  Company- 
Polaroid  Corporation 
Estate  of  David  M.  Raab  '61 
William  W.  Rawstron  '57 
John  T.  Rushton  '39* 
Daniel  H.  Sheingold  '48 
Raymond  B.  Shlora  '40 
Mrs.  Stanley  J.  Slater  '29 
Estate  of  Francis  R.  Snow  '26 
The  Torrington  Company 
Charles  A.  Tyson  '57 
John  G.  Underhill  '44 
University  of  Massachusetts 
Irwin  T.  Vanderhoof  '48 
Thomas  M.  Zajac  '46 
Ronald  L.  Zarrella  71 

$5,000  to  $9,999 

George  W.  Allen  '48 
Diran  Apelian 
Paul  R.  Beswick  '57 
Robert  J.  Boyea  '58 
Murray  A.  Cappers  Jr.  '57 
Mrs.  B.  Austin  Coatesjr.  '35 
Dr.  &  Mrs.  Noel  L. 

Cohen  p'90 
Data  Translation  Inc. 
James  S.  Demetry  '58 
Mrs.  Dwight  Dwinell  '34 
Estate  of  D.  Victor 

Edwards  '46 
Paul  E.  Evans  '48 
Neil  A.  Fitzgerald '38 
F.  H.  Daniels  Foundation  Inc. 
Dale  G.  Freygang  74 
Albert  S.  Goldberg  '48 
Michael  G.  Gordon  '56 
Alfred  E.  Green  '45 
Walter  J.  Grimala  '46 


p     parent(s)ofWPI 
undergraduate 
students/alumni 

gp  parent(s)  of  WPI 
graduate  students/ 
alumni 

*    deceased 


WTI  Journal 


19 


I                                    1995-96WPI 

HONOR     ROL 

L     OF     DONORS 

Eric  A.  Hahn  '80 

T.  Roger  Danielson  '58 

James  S.  Adams  '49 

Lee  P.  Hacked:  '61 

Milton  E.  Ross  '40 

Steven  C.  Halstedt  '68 

C.  Marshall  Dann '35 

Allendale  Mutual  Insurance 

David  H.  Hall  '68 

Frederick  D.  Rucker  '81 

John  P.  Harding  '47 
Kenneth  E. 

Hermance  Sr.  '57 

1  lelen  C.  Davidson 

Anonymous 

James  R.  Hall  76 

Philip  B.  Ryan  '65 

Michael  A.  DiPierro  '68 

Robert  C.  Appenzeller  '46 

Leslie  B.  Harding  '41 

George  E.  Saltus  '53 

Gerald  T.  Dyer  '56 
Leland  P.  Ekstrom  '42 

Mihran  A.  Aroian  '80 
Herbert  Asher  '44 

Warren  G.  Harding  '42 
Francis  S.  Harvey  '37 

Robert  W.  Schramm  '46 
Donald  J.  Schulz'61 

John  E.  Hossack  '46 

Warner  S.  Fletcher 

Philip  G.  Atwood  '37 

Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66 

David  M.  Schwaber  '65 

Hughes  Aircraft  Company 

John  F.  Gabranski  '75 

Gerald  R.  Backlund  '55 

Thomas  S.  Heefner  '61 

Allan  P.  Sherman '61 

Larry  Israel  '61 

Milton  W.  Garland  '20 

Bruce  M.Bailey '51 

Jay  P.  Hochstaine  '62 

William  F.  Shields  '64 

William  A.  Johnson  '56 

William  F.  Gess  Jr.  '58 

Banta  Corporation 

Hoechst  Celanese  Corp. 

Richard  L.  Sieron  '55 

Roger  A.  Jolicoeur  '58 
Paul  N  Kokulis  '45 

Robert  W.  Goodfader  '60 

Leon  H.  Bassett '51 

William  D.Holcomb  '38 

S.  Merrill  Skeist  '40 

Bennett  E.  Gordon  Jr.  '65 

Paul  W.  Bayliss  '60 

Peter  H.  Horsttnann  '55 

H.  Kerner  Smith 

1    .1(11    IX*    XV.UM41JO       T  J 

Estate  of  Richard 
Lamothe  '61 

Donald  J.  Grenier  '55 
Allan  C.  Hamilton  Jr.  '56 

C.  Edward  Bean  '44 
Bechtel  Group  Inc. 

Holbrook  L.  Horton  '29 
Wilfrid  J.  Houde'59 

Dr.  Stedman  W.  Smith  '36 
Smith  &  Nephew 

Francis  L.  Harrington  '35 

L.  Thomas  Benoit  Jr.  '66 

Industrial  Risk  Insurers 

Richards  Inc. 

Alan  G.  Larsson  '56 

Robert  W.  Henderson  '48 

Harvey  A.  Berger  '58 

Intellution  Inc. 

SNET 

Richard  C.  Lawton  '46 

William  H.  Hopf'58 

Donald  F.  Berth  '57 

George  E.Johnson  Jr.  '48 

Frans  E.  Strandberg  '39 

C.John  Lindegrenjr.  '39 

Clayton  E.  Hunt  Jr.  '34 

Rene  R.  Bertrand  '57 

Chandler  W.Jones  '26 

John  W.  Sutcliffe  '38 

Lockheed  Martin 

Rolf  H.Jensen 

Louis  A.  Blanchard  '57 

Charles  F.Jones '48 

Robert  M.  Taft  '38 

Corporation 
Carlton  G.  Luttsjr.  '46 
McDonnell  Douglas 

T->                                  1 

Margaret  N.  Kalenian 

John  Lott  Brown  '46 

Robert  C.  Keenan  70 

Claude-Alain  Tardy 

Paul  S.  Kennedy  '67 

Brown  &  Williamson 

John  F.  Kelley  III  '65 

W.  Gordon  Thatcher  '40 

Hans  H.  Koehl  '56 
Gershon  Kulin  '48 

Tobacco  Corp. 
Daniel  A.  Bundza  '57 

Douglas  O.  Kendrick  '60 
William  A.  Kerr  '60 

David  T.  Van  Covern  '53 
Helen  G.  Vassallo  '82 

foundation 

Mrs.  Raymond  J. 

Harold  D.Burt '33 

Douglas  W.  Klauber  '67 

Romeo  J.  Ventres  '48 

Lawrence  A.  Minkoff  '69 

Laferriere  '47 

John  K  Busada  '39 

Victor  E.  Kohman  '43 

Davis  S.  Watson  '46 

Mobil  Foundation  Inc. 

Eino  O.  Leppanen  '32 

Richard  S.  Carrara  '63 

Joseph  A.  Lagana  '67 

Richard  T.  Whitcomb  '43 

Morgan  Construction  Co. 

Allen  H.  Levesque  '59 

Wilder  R.  Carson  '39 

Walter  E.  Lankau  Jr.  '64 

David  H.  White  75 

Mrs.  Romeo  Moruzzi 

Andrew  F.  Manzi  '56 

Brian  D.  Chace  '69 

John  H.  Lauterbach  '66 

Leonard  H.  White  '41 

Walter  O.  Muller  '46 

Marsh  &  McLennan 

CIBA-GEIGY  Corporation 

John  B.  Lawson  '63 

Philip  A.  Wild  '50 

John  M.  Nash  '56 
John  M.  Nelson 

Companies  Inc. 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin  Jr.  '56 

Thomas  E.  Lempges  '46 

Plummer  Wiley  '35 

Peter  J.  Martin  '62 
Joseph  C.  Molder 

Charles  H.  Cole  '30 
Thomas  A.  Corcoran 

Charles  L.  Loveridgejr.  '48 
Arthur  J.  LoVetere  '60 

Richard  B.  Wilson  '39 
WMX  Technologies  Inc. 

Henry  W.  Nowick  56 

George  R.  Morin  '46 

Herbert  W.  Coulter  III  '70 

Joseph  J.  Maggi  '67 

Donald  N.  Zwiep 

NYNEX 

National  Fire  Protection 

George  A.  Cowan  '41 

Louis  J.  Marsella  '56 

$1,000  to  $1,499 

Alex  C.  Papianou  '57 

Association 

Gordon  F.  Crowther  '37 

Zareh  Martin  '40 

Arthur  L.  Pike  '48 

New  England  Power 

Henry  S.  C. 

Robert  E.  Maynard  Jr.  '63 

Estate  of  Milton  H. 

Pittway  Corporation 

Service  Co. 

Cummingsjr.  '50 

Peter  D.  McDermott  73 

Aldrich  '28 

Richard  F.  Propst  '46 
William  C.  Rogler  Jr.  '57 
Sean  D.  S.  Sebastian  '83 

New  York  Stock  Exchange 

William  D.  Cunningham  '77 

Thomas  G.  McGee  '64 

Alza  Corporation 

William  J.  O'Neil '58 

Earl  M.  Curtis  '36 

James  E.  McGinnis  '41 

Andersen  Consulting 

Edmund  S.  Oshetsky  '46 

C.  Chapin  Cuder  Sr.  '37 

John  M.  McHugh  '56 

Aphios  Corporation 

Eric  Ostergaard  '56 

Cytec  Industries  Inc. 

Samuel  W.  Mencow  '37 

Erving  Arundale  '37 

J.  Morrison  Smith  '37 

Julius  A.  Palley  '46 

Thomas  R.  d'Errico  '41 

BehrendsMesserJr.  '43 

Jonathan  R.  Barnett  74 

Mrs.  Ernest  J.  Souza  '56 

Edward  A.  Parrish 

Walter  G.  Dahlstrom  '36 

Charles  R.  Michel '37 

Mrs.  Robert  M.  Bendett  '42 

George  P.  Strom  '56 

Pfizer  Inc. 

Richard  A.  Davis '53 

Bruce  D.  Minsky  77 

Carl  W.  Bergman  Jr.  '46 

Donald  Taylor  '49 

F.  David  Ploss  III  '70 

Robert  M.  Delahunt  '56 

Robert  B.  Mirick  '39 

Gerald  J.  Bibeault '42 

A.J.  Gifford  Charitable 

PNC  Bank 

Albert  M.  Demont'31 

Monsanto  Fund 

The  Boeing  Co. 

Trust 

Henry  B.Pratt '32 

Robert  L.  Diamond  '56 

Francis  C.  Moore  '33 

Craig  F.  Bradley  '69 

Estate  of  George  A. 
Walker '22^ 

Walter  A.  Reibling'54 

Walter  G.  Dick  '49 

David  L.  Nickerson  '54 

Joseph  D.  Bronzino  '59 

Raymond  J.  Remillard  '49 
Stephen  E.  Rubin  '74 

Anne  M.  McPartland 
Dodd  '75 

Judith  Nitsch  75 
Robert  W.  O'Brien '38 

Harrison  K  Brown  '39 
Jeffrey  E.  Burek  76 

Frank  E.  Weeks  '46 

Sara  Lee  Corporation 

William  J.  Dowd  '64 

Robert  J.  O'Malley  '39 

John  P.  Burgarella  '50 

WPI  Worcester  County 

Lawrence  F.  Scinto  '5 1 

William  W.  Durgin 

Mark  F.  O'Neil '80 

Kevin  J.  Burke  '60 

Club 

Kenneth  W.  Shiatte  '53 

Larry  Dworkin  '58 

VernerR.  Olson '35 

Allan  E.  Carlson  '57 

Wyman-Gordon  Co. 

Harry  W.  Simpson  '58 

John  E.  Edfors  '55 

Francis  J.  Oneglia  '42 

Richard  M.  Chapman  '58 

Robert  A.  Yates  '57 

The  Stanley  Works 

Cornelius  J.  Enrightjr.  '60 

George  B.  Ordway  '66 

Chevron  Corporation 

Jon  C.  Strauss 

Gerald  Finkle  '57 

John  A.  Pelli  70 

Edward  H.  Coburnjr.  '48 

$2,500  to  $4,999 

Alvin  E.  Tanner  '57 

Niel  I.  Fishman  '48 

Edward  H.  Peterson  '43 

Robert  F.  I.  Conte  '57 

Air  Products  & 

Texaco  Inc. 

Martin  R.  Flinkjr.  '45 

Ralph  W.  Piper  Jr.  '42 

Estate  of  Zelma  E.  Crane  '25 

Chemicals  Inc. 

J.  Headen  Thompson  '36 

Ford  Motor  Company  Fund 

Sherman  K  Poultney  '58 

Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp. 

Paul  A.  Allaire  '60 

Francis  G.  Toce  '60 

Foundry  Educational 

John  W.  Powers  '6 1 

D.J.  Mungovan 

Allmerica  Financial 

JohnM.  Tracy '52 

Foundation 

Paul  I.  Pressel  '44 

Trucking  Inc. 

Richard  A.  Barlow '57 

John  T.Wilson '65 

Anson  C.  Fyler  '45 

William  Price '37 

David  B.  Denniston  '58 

James  L.  Bartlett  Jr.  '39 

Carl  G.  Zenger 

Edward  L.  Gallini  '57 

Windle  B.  Priem  '59 

William  P.  Densmore  '45 

Albert  D.  Battista  '56 

**»»  j       ^b  *>*.  ^x.     ■             *K  *»       »  *■■».  r^. 

C.  Stewart  Gentsch  '58 

Public  Service  Electric 

Joseph  B.  Dzialo  76 

Bell  Adantic  Corporation 

$1 ,500  to  $2,499 

Mrs.  Joseph  Glasser  '35 

&  Gas  Co. 

Ericsson  Inc. 

Henry  J.  Bove  '47 

George  T.  Abdow  '53 

James  W.  Green  '56 

Joaquim  S.S.  Ribeiro  '58 

Peter  R.  Fenner  '64 

James  L.  Carr  Jr.  74 

Walter  L.Abel '39 

Joel  P.  Greene  '69 

Kenneth  W.  Roberts  '68 

James  C.  Ferguson  '41 

Frederick  J.  Costello  '59 

Michael  L.  Abrams  '77 

Richard  M.  Gross  '69 

John  E.  Rogerson  '42 

Richard  J.  Ferguson  '57 

20 


December  1996 


"""-"•- •*-"■ 


.■^.-     ,,.,^IV.,-.AI>.l.^.|.,lM,*>^.,»,«»»«,».l..mtJ.».1>. 


nnmfli 


Robert  (i.  Ferguson  '48 
Fluor  Corporation 

Atwater  Kent  Inundation 
I  [oward  B.  France  '46 
Kurt  H.  France  '57 
( i.  Eric  Friberg  '57 
John  P.  Gagliardo  '46 
I ■'.  ( Hark  Gesswein  '64 
Paul  B.  Grautski  '84 
Robert  A.  Gregorio  '7(> 
Estate  of  Samuel  |. 

llaka.n'35 
Joseph  M.  Halloranjr.  '40 
William  F.  I  lanson  '32 
Donald  B.  Hayward  '58 
KentA.Healy'59 
Hercules  Incorporated 
Joachim  Herz  '54 
Neil  M.  Hodes  70 
Hyde  Manufacturing  Co. 
Intel  Corp. 
M  Howard  Jacobson 
Timothy  C.Johnson  '71 
Arthur  T.  Katsaros  '69 
Stuart  C.  Kazin  '6 1 
Paul  J.  Keating  II  '64 
Richard  D.  Kirk  '54 
Lothar  W.Kleiner  70 
Mrs.  Wilmer  Kranich 
Carl  W.  Lewin  '39 
George  A.  Makela  '35 
James  H.  Maloney  Jr.  '46 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  F.  William 

Marshall  Jr.  p'90 
Christopher  F.  Martin  '53 
Robert  W.  Matchett  '56 
James  S.  Mathews  '55 
Robert  E.  Mcintosh  Jr.  '62 
Merck  &  Co.  Inc. 
Paul  E.Nelson '32 
Northeast  Nuclear 

Energy  Co. 
Northeast  Utilities 

Service  Co. 
John  F.  O'Brien 
Ronald  B.  Paris  '46 
Howard  B.  Pritz  '58 
Richard  A.  Prokop  '37 
John  W.  Putis  Jr.  '80 
Manuel  Renasco  '46 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  B. 
Robinson  p'78 
Rockwell  International 
Robert  F.  Shannon  '50 
Peter  W.  Sinz 

Herbert  H.  Slaughter  Jr.  '46 
Edward  H.  Smith  '46 
Paul  W.Snyder '53 
Spag's  Supply 
Harvey  W.  Spence  /j'74 
George  V.  Spires  III  '64 
Sports  Alive 
Edward  T.  Swierz  '47 
Edward  J.  Sydor  '50 
David  E.  Szkutak  79 
Joan  M.  Bolduc  Szkutak  79 
Donald  A.  Tart  72 
United  Illuminating  Co. 


Edward  J.  Waranowicz  '46 
Warner-Lambert  Company 
Westvaco  Corporation 

Estate  of  Hester  D. 

Wetherell 
Harold  E.  White  '39 

$250  to  $999 

Abbott  Laboratories 

Donald  II.  Adams  '52 
Joseph  I).  Adams  Jr.  '76 

\ctna  Lite  &  Casualty  Co. 

\n  \  Water  rechnologies Corp. 

Paul  R.  Alasso  '54 

Amory  A.  Aldrich  Jr.  '61 
James  A.  Allien  '59 
Mansour  Alipour-Fard  '88 
Allegro  Microsystems  Inc. 
( )wen  F.  Allen  '54 
Robert  A.  Allen  '59 
Allied-Signal  Foundation  Inc. 
Mis.  Jonathan  B.  Allured  '42 
Raymond  L.  Alveyjr.  '50 
American  Express  Company 
Arthur  W.  Anderson  '57 
G.Albert  Anderson  '51 
Edgar  C.  Ansaldi '32 
David  L.  Anthony  '48 
Apple  Computer  Inc. 
Bourdillon  Apreala  76 
John  J.  Aquino  Jr.  '58 
Merico  E.  Argentari  '70 
Neil  VV.  Armstrong  '57 
John  E.  Arnold  79 
Ashland  Oil  Inc. 
AT&T  Global  Information 
John  H.  Atchison  Jr.  '57 
Augat  Inc. 

Michael  C.  Auger  79 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Brian  Azevedo  pW 
William  E.  Bachmann  '50 
CarlW.Backstrom  '30* 
Frank  C.  Baginski  '45 
Everett  E.  Bagley  '52 
Roy  E.  Baharian  '44 
Norman  E.  Baker  '50 
Kenneth  E.  Baker  Sr.  '52 
Edwin  G.  Baldwin  '45 
William  F.  Balutis  '66 
Walter  J.  Bank  '46 
C.  R.  Bard  Inc. 
Barnett  Banks  Inc. 
Carl  P.  Baron  77 
Nicholas  J.  Barone  '65 
John  H.  Barrett  Jr.  '46 
Wayne  R.Barry '81 
Robert  W.  Batchelder  '49 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Clarence  Bates  p'97 
Frank  L.  Baumgardner  '46 
Bay  Networks  Inc. 
Edward  J.  Bayon  '3  1 
Paul  G.  Beaudet  '68 
Robert  A.  Beaudet '57 
Paul  H.  Beaudrv  '49 
David  S.  Becker  '56 
PhilipP.Bedard'56 
G.  Standish  Beebe  '34 
SalvatoreJ.  Bellassai  '42 
BellSouth  Services  Inc. 
Bemis  Company  Inc. 
Carl  H.  BenkerIII'91 
Keith  R.  Bennett  76 
Carl  F.  Benson  '36 
Marcia  J.  Huber  Berg  79 
Donald  P.  Bergstrom  '6S 
Paul  H.  Bergstrom  '38 
Eugene  R.  Bertozzijr.  '38 
AldenJ.  Bianchi  74 
J.AlfredBicknell'33 
Charles  N.  Bissell  '34 


Mrs.  llaroldS.  Black  '21 
John  R.  Black  '53 
Black  (Sc  Decker  Corporation 
Kenneth  R.  ISI.usdcll  '40 
Henry  S.  Blauvelt  '39 
Laurence  E.  Blomstrom  '56 
Paula  Mesne  Bordogna  '80 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  M. 

Borrelli/>'96 
Boston  Edison  Co. 
Harold  1).  Boutelle'20 
David  P.  Bova  '63 
Russell  P.  Bradlau  '49 
John  W.  Bialcvjr. '57 
John  R.  Brand '36 
Ronald  S.  Brand  '40 
James  K.  Breed  '45 
Fred  J.  Brennan  '49 
FredT.  BrierlyJr. '42 
Alan  K.  Briggs  76 
Stephen  J.  Brodeur  '68 
Frederick  G.  Broshjeit  '59 
John).  Brosnihan  '67* 

Stephen  B.  Biouncll  '64 
William  A.  Brutsch  '62 
James  R.  Buchanan  '60 
Gasper  Buffa  74 
Philip  G.  Bufiinton  '49 
Ciary  S.  Bujaucius  77 
Richard  F.  Burke  Jr.  '38 
Donald  M.  Burness  '39 
Thomas  I.  Burns  74 
.Allan!'.  Burosjr. '67 
Clifford  W.  Burwick  '56 
Scott  J.  Bun  '88 
Robert  H.  Cahill  '65 
Philip  J.  Cameron  HI  79 
Henry  J.  Camosse  '53 
Donald  W.  Campbell  74 
Edwin  C.  Campbell  '43 
Campbell  Soup  Company 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stanley  Capek  /?'98 
Capital  Cities/ ABC  Inc. 
Dana  B.  Carleton  '32 
Carl  H.  Carlson  '29 
Curtis  R.  Carlson  '67 
Allen  S.  Camicke  75 
Caroline  McNerney  Carr 
Penny  Bergmann  Carter  76 
John  P.  Casey  76 
William  P.  Casey  Jr.  76 
Paul  M.  Casde  '66 
Benjamin  R.  Chadwick  '3 1 
Gordon  J.  Chaffee  '42 
Ronald  H.  Chand  '65 
R.  Ross  Chapin  Jr.  '5 1 
Walter  J.  Charow  '49 
Frank  T.  Check  Jr.  '68 
Paul  A.  Christian  73 
Church  &  Dwight 

Company  Inc. 
George  A.  Clark  74 
Jennifer  A.  Pollard  Clark  78 
James  R.  Clarke  III  '57 
David  S.  Clayton  '65 
Clorox  Company  Foundation 
Samuel  W.  Cocks  '48 
Richard  A.  Coffey  Jr.  '5  I 
Commonwealth  Edison 

Company 
Commonwealth  Gas  Co. 
George  E.  Comstock  '46 
Consolidated  Edison  of 

New  York 
John  J.  Concordia  '48 
Connecticut  Mutual  Life 

Insurance  Co. 
William  R.  Cooper  '67 
John  A.  Coppola  '49 
Glenn  P.  Corbett  '91 
John  R.  Corf  '46 


Allan  J.  ( lostantin  '54 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  R. 
Costantino/>'98 
John  B.Covle'35 
Donald  G.Craig '57 
Walter  f.Crandall '40 
Bruce  T.  Croft  75 
Philip  B.  Crommelinjr.  '52 
William  J.  Cronin  Jr.  77 
Marshall  W.  Cross '64 
Kevin  J.  Crossen  7  5 
Robert  ( aishman 
Peter  J.  Dalton'49 
Birino  D'Ambrosio  '58 
Bernard  R.  Danti  '56 
Warren  H.  Davenport  '34 
Michael  A.  Davis  '62 
Davis  Corporation  of  Worcester 
Elisabeth  M.  Day  p'97 
Debra  R.  Weinstein  Dean  '83 
John  L.  Dehnert  '59 
Gene  E.  Dejackoinc  74 
William  A  DeIphos74 

Deluxe  Corporation  foundation 
Christopher  ( '..  Dennison  '80 
John  K.  Derby  '56 
Allen  R.  Deschere  '38 
Dexter  Corporation 
RichardJ.  DiBuono '62 
Dickens  Fellowship  of  Palo  Alto 
Arthur  M.  Dickey  '65 
Monroe  M.  Dickinson  Jr.  '52 
Mario  P.  DiGiovanni  75 
Michael  J.  Dolan  75 
Marylou  D.  Place  Domino  '81 
Michael  W.  Donahue  '90 
John  E.  Donnelly  '61 
DOW  Chemical  Company 
David  A.  Drab  '85 
Athena  Dratelis  '86 
Robert  W.  Dreyfoos  '80 
Raymond  G.  Dube  '64 
Dun  &  Bradstreet  Corporation 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  John 

Dunkelberg  Sr.  />'92 
.Alfred  L.Dunklee '61 
Linda  S.  Dunn  '84 
Duracell  Inc. 
Andrew  F.  Durette  '69 
Robert  H.  Dutson  74 
Eastern  Enterprises 
Robert  M.  Edgerly  '45 
Charles  J.  Egan  '34 
Edward  W.  Eidt  Jr.  '57 
Eli  Lilly  &  Company 
Franklin  P.  Emerson  '49 
Richard  E.  Epstein  '63 
Stuart  J.  Erickson  '80 
Wayne  N.  Fabricius  '68 
Factory  Mutual  System 
William  R.  Fado  '62 
David  R.  Fairbanks  '52 
Michael  T.  Falcinelli  79 
Robert  L.  Favreau  '52 
Oscar  A.  FickJr.  '38 
John  J.  Fitzgibbonsjr.  75 
John  M.  FitzPatrick  75 
Virginia  Giordano  FitzPatrick  75 
Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty  75 
Robert  J.  Flaherty  '85 
Donald  L.  Fogg  '39 
.Alan  S.  Foss  '52 
George  F.  Foxhall  '61 
Gerda  Frank 
Howard  G.  Freeman  '40 
Linda  S.  Fritz  74 
Richard  W.  Frost  '62 
Richard  C.  Furman  '69 
John  J.  Gabarro  '61 
Michael  Gaffin  '55 
Cynthia  L.  Gagnon  '82 


Bradle)  I  .Gale '64 
Robert  1  .Galligan'57 
( reorge  I    '  Jamache  '68 
Richard  I  .  ( rates  '52 
John  C.  Gavin  '69 
I  heodore  I  .  ( .a/da  '46 
John  1 1.  ( Jearin  '53 
( reorgia  Powei 
David  M.  (.uldings  75 
David  F.Gilbert '54 
Paul  R  Glazier '37 

Kenneth  E    ( .Irason  Sr.  '33 
Charles  \.  ( .oddard  '63 
Arthur  I    GoddardH'63 
Edward  M  Gonsalves  '81 
John  R.  Goodwin  '55 
( roodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co. 
Alexander  L.  Gordon  '36 
Saul  Gordon  '50 
Denise  ( '..  ( iorski  75 
Willard  T.Gove '40 
\\    R.Grace&Co. 
I  lioinas  B.  Craves  76 
I  eland  E.  Gray  Jr.  '48 
John  B.  Greenstreet  75 
( Jeorge  D.  ( freenwood  '34 
Robert  M.  Griffin  '58 
Michael  E.Grilli '67 
R.  Reed  Grimwade '50 
William  R.  Grogan  '46 
Daniel  B.  Grossman  79 
Prescott  E.  Grout  '46 
Harold  B.  Guerci  '48 
Charles  E.  Gunn  '56 
Berton  H.  Gunter  '68 
Alan  R.  Gustafson  '57 
James  G.  Hackendorf '60 
Earle  A.  N.  Hallstrom  '50 
Robert  N.  Hamilton  '46 

Janet  L.  Hammarstrom  '80 
Timothy  B.  Hardy  '85 
Bradford  J.  Harper  '59 
Hartford  Insurance  Company- 
Philip  J.  Hastings '42 
DanielJ.  Hastings  Jr.  '37 
Philip  K.  Hathaway  '38 
Richard  E.  Hathaway  '50 
RoswellJ.  Heald'62' 
Herbert  S.  Hebel  '59 

John  F.  Henrickson  '65 
Peter  M.  Herron  '67 
Leonard  Hershoff  '43 
Eric  B.  Hertz  77 
Robert  W.  Hewey  '40 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Walter 
Hewitson  p'94 

JohnL.  Heyl 

Merrill  W.  Higgins  '42 
Richard  H.  Hill  '83 

William  II.  Hills  '54 

David  H.  Hoercher  '80 

George  L.  Hogeman 

Franklin  K.  Holbrook  '43 

Paul  C.  Holden  '48 

Hollingsworth  &  Vose  Co. 

Ralph  H.  Holmes  '37 

Honeywell  Fund 

Glendon  C.  Home  '62 

Richard  B.  Hosmer  '61 

Houghton  Mifflin  Co. 

Household  International  Inc. 

Raymond  K.  Houston  '38 

John  F.  Howe  Jr.  '57 

Humana 

Thomas  F.  Humphrey  '59 

Harold  W.  Humphreyjr.  '39 

Charles  F.  Hunnicutt  '65 

Lewis  W.  Huntoon  '62 

Daniel  Hurley  '80 

ITT  Corporation 

Chester  F.  Jacobson  '59 


WPI  Journal 


21 


19  9  5-96     W  P 1 

HONOR     ROL 

L     OF     DONORS 

John  P.  Jacobson  '65 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  S. 

Terence  P.  O'Coin  '83 

EdwardJ.  Roszko  '39 

John  W  Sztukajr.  70 

David  A.  Jacqmin  78 

Lovering  Sr.  p'9ft 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Francis  E. 

Sheldon  W.  Rothstein  '61 

Stanley  Szymanski  '64 

Eugene  A.  Jakaitis  '52 

Peter  H.  Lukesh  '66 

O'Connell  />'89 

Paul  A.  Rougeau  '63 

Thomas  Szymanski  73 

JohnJ.Janas  HI  79 

Richard  J.  Lyman  '37 

Janet  L.  O'Leary  '84 

Eugene  L.  Rubin  '53 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  George  Talisse  p'97 

Richard  C.Jasper  '41 

Otis  E.  Mace  '31 

Brian  J.  O'RourkeJr.  '86 

Walter  J.  Ruthenburg  III  '65 

Morris  Tanenbaum 

George  Jeas  '52 

John  Machonis  Jr.  '63 

Kenneth  W.  Oberg  70 

Edwin  M.  Ryan  '41 

Thomas  F.  Taylor  '69 

David  S.  Jenney  '53 

W'ardD.  MacKenzie'61 

Occidental  Oil  &  Gas  Corp. 

John  P.  Ryan  Jr.  '81 

Tech  Old  Timers 

Fritz  E.  Johanson  '40 

Douglas  B.  MacLaren  '54 

John  F.  Ogorzalek  '61 

Elmer  S.  Sachse  '46 

Edwin  D.  Tenney  '59 

Mark  L.Johnson  76 

Homer  E.  MacNutt  Jr.  '49 

Olin  Corporation  Charitable 

M.  Michael  Sadick  '40 

Harry  Terkanian  '40 

Ronald  L.  Jones  '69 

Frank  A.  MacPherson  '5 1 

Trust 

Scott  L.  Saftler  77 

Chrysanthe  Demetry 

Kevin  E.Joyce  '56 

Roger  H.  Maddocks  '63 

David  N.Olson  '57 

Patricia  A.  Pfeiffer  Salamone  75 

Terwilliger  '88 

Arthur  W.Joyce  Jr.  '50 

Ellen  E.  Madigan  '92 

Richard  S.  Olson  '65 

Donald  R.  Sanders  '49 

Texas  Instruments  Foundation 

Jaakjurison  '54 

Daniel  Maguire  '66 

Robert  E.  Olson  '55 

Donald  F.  Sanger  '62 

Textron  Inc. 

Peter  Kali]  '4'* 

Thomas  F.  Mahar  Jr.  '55 

Roy  H.Olson '51 

Edward  A.  Saulnier  '59 

Peter  A.  Thacher  74 

Stephen  J.  Kaneb  '82 

John  F.  Mahoney 

Irving  F.  Orrell  Jr.  '51 

Alice  A.  Savler  74 

Thiokol  Corporation 

Samuel  B.  Kaplan  '39 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Mark  A. 

OSRAM  Sylvania  Inc. 

Walter  C.  Scanlon  '50 

Leo  J.  Thomas 

Carl  H.  Karlsson  '60 

Mahonev  74  p'9} 

Joseph  J.  Osvald  '65 

Warren  H.  Schafer  '38 

Ronald  E.  Thompson  Jr.  '82 

Benjamin  H.  Katcoff'71 

Paul  R.  Malnati  '66 

Pacific  Telesis  Group 

Herbert  S.  Schiller  77 

Vernon  Tirey 

Daniel  B.  Katz  '45 

Steven  E.  Mandell  79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Charles  T. 

John  H.  Schmidt  '64 

Joseph  A.  Toce  70 

Frank  H.  Kean  Jr.  '33 

John  F.  ManningJr.  '80 

Packard  p'89 

Richard  G.  Schmitt  '52 

Tomkins  Corporation 

Francis  E.  Kearney  '50 

William  E.Mansfield  '51 

Robert  A.  Painter  '43 

Steven  H.  Schoen  76 

Foundation 

John  H.  Keenan  '34 

John  A.  Marden  '82 

John  R.  Palitsch  74 

Paul  D.  Schoonmaker  '56 

David  A.  Tone  '63 

Duncan  K  Keill  '84 

Suzanne  J.  Call  Margerum  '81 

Cary  A.  Palulis  '68 

Bruce  E.  Schoppe  '60 

Gerard  A.  Toupin  '66 

Jean  Keller  p'95 

George  A.  Marston  '30 

Anan  Panananda  '60 

Edward  Schoppe  Jr.  '55 

Towers  Perrin  Company 

David  P.  Kelly  '82 

David  R.  Martin  '68 

Armand  L.  Paquette  '26 

Robert  J.  Schuitz  '55 

TRW  Inc. 

Eleanor  M.  Cromwick  Kelly 

'81         Robert  W.Martin '39 

Parker  Hannifin  Corp. 

Kenneth  G.  Schurzky  '67 

Alden  F.  Tucker  '52 

John  F.  Kellv  '82 

Lawrence  J.  Martiniano  74 

Russell  W.  Parks '41 

David  L.  Schwartz  75 

Robert  F.  Turek  '52 

Kevin  J.  Kelly  75 

Michele  F.  Mass  78 

ThomasJ.  Passanisi  '46 

Richard  J.  Schwartz  70 

Stephen  J.  Turek  Jr.  '44 

Francis  E.  Kennedvjr.  '63 

Massachusetts  Electric  Company 

Harvey  L.  Pastan  '49 

Wayne  E.  Schweidenback  73 

Daniel  Turner  '64 

Donald  L.  Kerr  '65 

Massachusetts  Financial  Services 

R.  Craig  Pastore  '69 

James  L.  Schwing  70 

Lee  D.  Turner  74 

Norman  A.  Kerr  '42 

George  W.  Matarrese  '57 

Arthur  D.  Patten  '80 

Gregory  A.  Scott  77 

Turner  Corp. 

Dr.  FrancisJ.  Kiernan  75 

Richard  G.  Mayer  '40 

John  D.Payne '81 

Second  Chance  Body  Armor 

Oliver  R.  Underhilljr.  '31* 

Osmond  L.  Kinney  '35 

Mr.  Raymond  A.  McDuffie  p'95 

Donald  J.  Pearson  '66 

Michael  D.  Shapiro  '65 

US  West  Foundation 

Earl  C.  Klaubert  '52 

William  R.McLeod  Jr. '58 

Roy  A.  Pearson  Jr.  '58 

Robert  V.  Sharkey  '59 

Shirley  Hossack  Van  Winkle 

Jeffrey  P.  Klofft  '86 

Denis  F.  McQuillen  '67 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Philip  E. 

Jeffrey  E.  Shaw  '68 

William  VanHerwarde  75 

George  W.  Knauff  '41 

HarryJ.  Mehrer  Jr.  '46 

Pelletierp'88 

Kevin  T.  Shea  '88 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Maurice  Vidal  p'89 

Marian  C.  Knight  '58 

HaroldA.MeldenJr. '49 

Mrs.  Julian  B.  Pendleton  '25 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  B. 

Kenneth  R.  Wadland  72 

Mark  G.  Knights  77 

Brian  C.  Mellea  76 

Alton  L.  Penniman  '51 

Sheldon  p'99 

FrancisJ.  Walsh  Jr. '80 

William  L.  Knoblock  '56 

Richard  E.  Mellor  74 

John  H.  Peters  III  '40 

Philip  C.  Sherburne  '34 

Robert  H.  Warburton  Jr.  78 

Antonie  T.  Knoppers 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Eduardo 

Donald  W.  Petersen  Jr.  '66 

Edwin  Shivell  '54 

Milton  Y.Warner '30 

Steven  G.  Kochman  '83 

Mendezp'95 

Herbert  S.  Peterson  '53 

Elizabeth  R.  Pennington 

Brian  G.  Wasko  '82 

Victor  A.  Kolesh  '41 

Richard  T.  Merrell'3  3 

William  P.  Peterson  '56 

Sigety  75 

Burl  S.  Watson  Ir.  '49 

Peter  P.  Koliss '38 

Metropolitan  Life  Insurance  Co. 

Donald  F.  Pethybridge  '38 

Elizabeth  B.  Siladi 

William  A.  Webb 

Mark  A.  Koretz  7 1 

Charles  B.  Miczek  '46 

Philip  Morris  Inc. 

Steven  J.  Silva  76 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Spencer  G 

Robert  J.  Kowal  73 

William  L.  Millettejr.  '88 

Philips  Electronics 

Robert  A.  Sinuc  '66 

Weig  gp 

Donald  M.  Krauss  '52 

Millipore  Corp. 

North  America 

PaulS.  Sledzik '61 

Robert  A.  Weiss  '61 

James  A.  Kudzal  74 

Minnesota  Mining  & 

Halbert  E.  Pierce  III  '56 

Alan  F.  Smelewicz  79 

J.  Richard  Weiss  Jr.  '42 

Frederick].  Kull  '46 

Manufacturing  Co. 

Lawrence  E.  Pihl  '66 

Everett  P.  Smith  '40 

Estate  of  Katharine 

Albert  J.  Kullas'38 

Allen  M.  xMintz  '48 

Robert  E.  Pill  '59 

Harold  F.  Smith  '56 

Wellington  '95 

Kenneth  N.  Kummins  78 

Harry  L.  Mirick  Jr.  '54 

Eric  O.  Pisila  '67 

Robert  W.  Smith  '69 

Axel  H.  Wendin  '26 

M.  Leonard  Kuniholm  '38 

John  L.  Mooshian  '29 

Richard  B.  Plummer  '67 

Dennis  E.  Snay  '63 

Elliot  F.  Whipple  '67 

David  A.  Kuniholm  Jr.  '69 

Philip  R.  Morgan 

Polar  Beverages 

Fred  S.  Snively  '60 

Robert  J.  Whipple 

Edward  P.  Kurdziel  '80 

Gerald  F.  Morris  '65 

Gary  G.  Pontbriand  74 

Eric  W  Soderberg  '35 

Howard  P.  Whittle  '54 

Mitsuo  Kuwada  '83 

Morton  International  Inc. 

Richard  R.  Poole  78 

Earl  C.  Sparks  III  '66 

Howard  A.  Whittum  '34 

David  H.  Laananen  '64 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gregory  A. 

Albert  P.  Popoli  73 

Warren  A.  Spence  74 

George  E.  Whitwell  77 

M.  Stephen  Lajoie  '64 

Moser  p'95 

Richard  D.  Popp  '54 

Stanadyne 

Charles  F.  Willett  '46 

Peter  A.  Lajoie  '60 

JohnS.Mudgett'38 

EdwardJ.  Power  Jr.  '54 

Warren  R.  Standley  '63 

Robert  S.  Williamson  '3 1 

Leonard  B.  Landall  '39 

Charles  F.  Mulrenan  '51 

Foster  C.  Powers  '37 

Roger  C.  Staples  '48 

Donald  M.  Wood  II  '63 

Theresa  B.  Langevin  79 

Duncan  W.  Munro  '5 1 

Robert  E.  Powers  '45 

State  Farm  Company 

Bruce  W.  Woodford  '61 

Robert  Laplume  '58 

Neal  P.  Murphy  '85 

PPG  Industries  Foundation 

Foundation 

George  W.  Woodsum  '46 

Alfred  F.  Larkinjr.  '44 

William  J.  Museler '64 

David  A.  Pratt  '56 

State  Street  Bank  &  Trust 

Charles  E.  Woodward  '3 1 

Donald  A.  Larson  79 

William  H.  Nagel  '53 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gaetano  Pucillo  p'9 1 

Company 

Burton  G.  Wright  '43 

Law  Engineering 

Nalco  Chemical  Company 

Quabaug  Rubber  Company 

John  E.  Stauffer  '60 

John  D.  Writer  '51 

Stephen  R.  Lawry  '80 

Anthony  P.  Napikoski  '80 

Robert  K.  Quattrochi  '49 

Peter  G.  Stebbins  '66 

William  E.  Wvman  '35 

Luther  C.  Leavitt  '34 

Narragansett  Electric  Co. 

Raymond  J.  Quenneville  '35 

Carl  J.  Stefanik  '62 

YangXu  '91 

EdwardJ.  Ledden  74 

Sangeetha  Neelakantiah  '92 

Shelden  H.  Radin  '58 

Peter  J.  Stephens  '56 

Yinmin  Yang  76 

Steven  H.  Leece  '69 

Stanley  P.  Negus  Jr.  '54 

Donald  P.  Reed  '28* 

J.  Larry  Stewart  '46 

Joseph  A.  Yanikoski  '87 

Peter  H.  Levine 

New  England  Business 

Norton  S.  Remmer  '60 

Donald  F.  Stockwell  '51 

Arthur  Zavarella  '30 

John  A.  Lewis  '44 

Service  Inc. 

John  H.  Reynolds  '62 

Edward  Stokel  '46 

John  B.  Lewis  '61 

New  England  Power  Company 

LesterJ.  Reynolds  Jr.  '50 

Francis  E.  Stone  '40 

$125  to  $249 

Lester  L.  Libby  '35 

New  York  State  Electric 

Laurent  O.  Rheault  79 

Stone  &  Webster  Inc. 

Robert  B.  Abbe  '38 

Lester  N.  Lintner  '32 

&  Gas  Co. 

Charles  M.  Richardson  '46 

Howard  H.  Street  III  '59 

Richard  H.  Ackley  '46 

Charles  Lipson  '60 

J.  Clayton  Neyjr.  77 

Alan  K.  Riedel  '48 

William  F.  Sullivan 

Michael  J.  Aghajanian  '80 

Leon  Lipton  '48 

Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Corp. 

Elaine  M.  Kokernak  Ritchie  '82 

Sun  Microsystems  Inc. 

John  Albernaz  7 

Michael  A.  Littizzio  '63 

William  R.  Nims  '66 

Henry  J.  Rives  '22 

Lance  G  Sunderlin  76 

Aluminum  Company  of 
America 

Joseph  W.  Little  '61 

Norfolk  Southern  Corp. 

George  P.  Rizzi  '59 

Alan  H.  Suydam  '67 

John  VV.  Loehmann  71 

Northern  Telecom  Inc. 

Nancy  L.  Roberts  77 

Roger  W.  Swanson  '51 

Allegheny  Ludlum 

Fred  H.  Lohrey  '56 

S.  Bailey  Norton  Jr.  '43 

Thomas  D.  Rockwood  79 

Ronald  A.  Swanson  '67 

Arthur  H.  Allen  '42 

Joseph  D.  Lojewski  '52 

William  T.  Nutter  73 

Richard  L.  Rodier  '46* 

Willard  M.  Sweetser  Jr.  '63 

Lisa  R.  Ricker  Allen  '90 

Bruce  G.  Lovelace  '68 

Torbjoern  G.  Nygaard  75 

Donald  E.  Ross  '54 

Kenneth  A.  Swenson  78 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald  Allen  p'97 

Walter  O.  Nygaard  '38 

Louis  J.  Rossi  '61 

David  W.  Swicker  '46 

Frank  M.  Amazeen  '67 

22 


December  1996 


mmamaasamm 


.im,m.!IMMnjaaC.«Mm.^^iM^,^»m..v»^, 


W&XStt'Wfft&RKt^^                                                                                                   *"•' 

E  verettj.  Ambrose  Jr,  '43 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jeffrey  Blakelyp'94 

Wayne  P.  ( Ihepren  74 

Lawrence  F.  Dennis  '55 

Steven  B.  Fine  77 

William"  1..  \mes-4: 

Walter  V  BlauJr. '35 

Paul  B.  Cherubim  '67 

Donald  J.  Desaulniers  '85 

Joseph  B.  Fitzgerald  '88 

Janet  \nderson  '81 

GerryA-Blodgeo  '69 

Robert  E.  Chiabrandy  '53 

Charles  J.  DeSimoneJr.  '65 

Michael  A  Fitzgerald  74 

Robert  !•'..  \iulerson  '68 

Joseph  R.  Blouin  '45 

Edmund  P.  Chin  '85 

Garrett  1 1.  DeVlieg  '65 

Mark  J.  FitzMaurice  '81 

Chester  L.  Anderson  Jr.  '4U 

Douglas  P.  Bobseine  '68 

Francis  A.  Christiano  II  '91 

Anna  Maria  K.  Diaz  '83 

Kevin  D.  Flannery  '89 

William  G.  Andrews  Jr. '84 

Richard  D.  Bohigian  '63 

1   !n  \  ski  Corp. 

S.  Carlton  Dickerman  '40 

Pierre  A.  Fleurant  78 

Sonja  M.  Annecharico  '90 

JohnT.  Bok'70 

Francis  A.  Cichowskijr.  '61 

Paul  J.  DiConza'88 

Frank  L.  Flood  Jr.  '52 

William  L.  Anthony  Jr.  '61 

Heidi  S.  Pivnick  Bomengen  79 

Todd  R.  Cimino  '84 

Anthony  J.  DiCiiovanni  '58 

Florida  Power  &  Light  Co. 

Kenneth  J.  Anusavice  '62 

Peter  J.  Bondy  '67 

Mark  J.  Ciofh  78 

Michael  DiMascio  75 

John  W.  Fondahl'45 

Allen  F.  Apel  77 

Richard  D.  Bourgault  78 

Henry  J.Clark  III  '88 

James  P.  DiMilia  73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  A.  Fontaine  p'98 

Daniel  L.  Appelbaum  '88 

Robert  L.  Bourget  '59 

Marcel  H.  Clavien  '63 

Thomas  E.  Dinan  Jr.  79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Norman  Forget  p'W 

John  O.  Archibald  Jr.  '50 

F.douard  S.P.  Bouvier  '55 

J.  David  Clayton  '44 

Carl  F.  Dinge  '59 

George  1 1.  Forsberg  '62 

( lharlotte  Arsenault  p'97 

Willard  L.  Bowen  III  *50 

Shawn  A.  Clayton  '90 

Laura  Zarrella  Dion  '83 

Clifford  J.  Forsterjr.  '51 

G.  Gilbert  ^shwell  '38 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Brian  B. 

William  H.Clogston '91 

Peter  C.  Dirksen  Jr.  '58 

Foster  Wheeler  Corp. 

Frank  Aspin  '42 

Bowler  p'99 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bruce  Cloutier  p'98 

Robert  F.  DiScipio  79 

James  M.  Fowler  78 

David  J.  Aspinwall  'so 

Cameron  P.  Boyd  '69 

Robert  N.  Cochran  '51 

Edward  S.  Dlugosz  74 

Edward  W.  Fox  '40 

Emanuel  S.  Athanas  '32 

Jack  F.  Boyd  '39 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  A.  Frederick 

Joshua  D.  Dobbelaar  '94 

Lorna  J.  Franco  '85 

Anni  1 1.  Autio  '82 

Mr.  &Mrs.  Arthur  C. 

Coleman  p'96 

Donald  W.  Dodge  '50 

Charles  S.  Frary  III  '65 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  K.  Ayersgp 

Boyntonp'73 

William  V.  Collentro  '66 

Glenn  W.  Dodwell  77 

Charles  S.  Fraryjr.  '34 

BP  America 

Francis  J.  Brady  '67 

David  R.  Collette '67 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Herbert  J. 

Joel  N.  Freedman  '62 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  Backlundp'96 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Francis 

Commonwealth  F.lectric  Co. 

Dollerp'96 

Walter  C.  Freeman  '83 

Philip  Backlund  '57 

Bianco  Sr.  p'94 

John  F.  Conlonjr.  '55 

Kevin  G.  Donahue  '81 

Stanley  Friedman  '50 

James  F.  Bagaglio  '70 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Justin  ( !. 

John  F.  Conlon  III  '82 

PatrickJ.  Donahue  78 

Henry  F.  Friel  '3 1 

David  C.  Bailey  Jr. 

Brandep'97 

The  Connecticut  Light 

Robert  A.  Donnan  '48 

Steven  J.  Frymer  '67 

Alfred  F.  Bakanowski  '43 

Harold  W.  Brandes  '43 

&  Power  Co. 

Dow  Elanco 

Robert  C.  Fuller  '81 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Walter  A. 

Henry  W.  Brandt  '60 

David  A.  Coombe  '65 

John  F\  Downes  78 

Robert  D.  Fulmerjr.  '51 

Baker  p'96 

Robert  B.  Brautigam  '41 

Albert  S.  Corbin '30 

Allen  G.  Downs  75 

Gerard  A.  Gabriel  79 

Fred  S.  Baker  in  '73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Harold 

Robert  R.  Cormier  76 

Gary  R.  Doyle  79 

James  E.  Gado  77 

Theodore  A.  Balaska  '46 

Brennan  Jr.  p'97 

Rollin  K.  Corwin  '65 

Paul  J.  Doyle  Jr.  '60 

Ronald  C.  Gagne  '62 

Garry  P.  Balboni  '74 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  P. 

Thomas  Cosker  '93 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bruce  G. 

Galileo  Electro-Optics  Corp. 

Robert  A.  Balducci  '68 

Bresnahan  p'98 

David  J.  Costa 

Drainvillep'97 

John  F\  Gallagher  '50 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  HenryJ. 

Robert  B.  Bridgman  '64 

William  D.  Coulopoulos  '48 

Edward  R.  Drechseljr.  '49 

Andrea  D.  Gallant  '85 

Ballastyp'92 

Oliver  G  Briggsjr.  70 

John  D.  Coupe  '53 

Dresser  Industries  Inc. 

Michael  G.  Galleram  79 

Michael  P.  Banic  '87 

David  S.  Brin  '84 

Michael  Cowperthwaite  '87 

Donald  R.  Drew  75 

Willard  A.  Gallotte  '24 

Bank  of  Boston 

Erik  A.  Brodin  75 

Catherine  C.  Coyne  '83 

Michael  J.  Dudas  75 

Kenneth  A.  Gamache  79 

Lawrence  K.  Barber  '37 

John  E.  Brogan  '50 

James  E.  Coyne  Jr.  '83 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Roger  M. 

Timothy  P.  Ganley  '86 

Betsy  Howes  Barrows  '84 

Richard  Brontoli  73 

E.  Bruce  Crabtree  '39 

Dufourp'94 

George  A.  Garrison  '53 

Kenneth  H.  Barrows  '64 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  Brophy  p'97 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Thomas  Craig  p'97 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  P. 

Richard  R.  Garstka  77 

Alfred  E.  Barry  '57 

W.  Chalmers  Brothers  Jr.  '82 

David  K.  Craigue  '80 

Dugan  p'93 

William  H.  Gascoyne  '81 

Patricia  Craig  Barstow  '84 

Alvin  Y.  Broverman  '46 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  H. 

HenryJ.  Dumas  Jr.  '56 

Walter  M.  Gasekjr.  '59 

Thomas  R.  Barstow  '83 

Richard  D.  Brow '51 

Crawford  p'98 

David  E.  Dunkleejr.  '63 

Wayne  D.  Gass  '59 

Philip  P.  Bartlett  '88 

Gedney  B.  Brown  '55 

Robert  C.  Crawford  '60 

James  R.  Dunn  '86 

Ms.  Christine  Gavin  p'97 

Sally  Bardettp'95 

George  T.  Brown  '45 

Daniel  C.  Creamer  '68 

Gregory  S.  Duplessie  '88 

Alan  Gehami  79 

Ronald  F.  Baruzzi  '62 

MarkW.  Brown  '82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Alan  Credit  p'97 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  Dupontp'97 

Tracey  L.  Geller  '87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James  T.  Baryzap'98 

Richard  C.  Brown  '46 

Employees  of  Crompton  & 

Eric  K.  Durling  '68 

Lee  G.  Gentile  Sr.  p'97 

Glen  A.  Bashian  '82 

Richard  W.  Brown  '49 

Knowles 

Leonard  L.  Dutram  Jr.  '59 

Hazel  A.  Fotheringham 

Ramin  Bashirzadeh  '93 

Paul  J.  Brown  Jr.  73 

Michael  E.  Crowley  '87 

Richard  P.  Dykas  74 

Geraghty  '85 

Rornina  Bashirzadeh  '93 

David  L.  Brumback  III  '50 

EarlR.  Cruff'49 

Frank  L.  Eaton  Jr.  '33 

Arthur  H.  Gerald  Jr.  '51 

Reginald  B.  Bates  Jr.  77 

John  V.  Bucci  76 

J.  Ronald  Crump  '66 

John  Edman  '88 

Clinton  A.  Gerlach  '42 

Mark  A.  Beal'82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Daniel  E. 

Robert  A.  Cunneen  '81 

William  J.  Eggleston  '85 

Carl  P.  Gerstle  78 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Roderick  Beaton  p'97 

Buchanan  p'98 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Curran  p'96 

James  C.  Eilenberger  '81 

Ivar  Giaever 

Michael  R.  Beaudoin  78 

William  R.  Bullock  '89 

Thomas  A.  Currie  '88 

Alfred  C.  Ekberg  '36 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Giulio  Giassi  p'98 

Matthew  A.  Beauregard  '93 

Charles  V.  Burdickjr.  '62 

Frederick  A.  Curtis  Jr.  '48 

C.  Milton  Ekberg  '32 

Mark  P.  Gibelli  '92 

Robert  E.  Beauregard  '48 

Frederick  J.  Burg  '38 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  C.  Cutronip'96 

David  S.  Elario  '91 

Michelle  A.  Giglio  '94 

Katherine  R.  Fowler  Becker  75 

Henry  K.  Burger  '53 

Merritt  E.  Cutting  '34 

Louis  G.  Elias  '86 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Victor  F. 

Robert  H.  Becker  74 

Francis  X.  Burke  '92 

Lawrence  R.  D'Addario  '90 

Richard  M.  Elliott  '38 

Gigliottip'96 

John  1 1.  Beckwith  '49 

Ronald  H.  Burrowes  '91 

Judith  M.  D'Agostino  '80 

Charles  W.  Embree  75 

Thomas  D.  Gillisp'96 

James  H.  Beech  Jr.  76 

Malcolm  S.  Burton  '40 

Michael  J.  Dabkowski  76 

Heather  L.  Emerson  '94 

Paul  C.  Gingrich  '84 

Robert  D.  Behn'63 

Scott  B.  Burton  '83 

Francis  L.  Dacri  '67 

William  C.  Emerson  78 

Cheryl  M.  Glanton  '87 

Brian  N.  Belanger  '66 

George  L.  Bush  '27 

James  L.  Daily  '63 

Clifford  G.  Engstrom  '62 

Albert  B.  Glenn  '34 

Joseph  A.  Bellofarto  '63 

Neil  T.  Buske  '59 

Timothy  John  Daisy  '87 

Stephen  A.  Erikson  '69 

Christopher  J.  Godfrey  '94 

Richard  B.  Belmonte  73 

Raymond  J.  Cadet  '61 

DermotJ.  Daley  '82 

Jacob  N.  Erlich  '62 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  H.  Godfrey  p'94 

Kenneth  C.  Benton  '63 

Herbert  R.  Cahoon  '48 

Holly  M.  Daley  '88 

MichaelJ.  Essex  Jr.  '52 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William  Goeschp'96 

Susan  M.  Benz  *80 

Nelson  M.  Calkins  Jr.  '43 

Karen  M.  Daly  '94 

William  E.  Evans  78 

George  W.  Golding  Jr.  '43 

Paul  V.  Bergantino  '85 

Mary  Calnan  gp 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Damaso  p'99 

Arthur  H.  Evans  HI  '69 

Richard  L.  Goldman  '55 

Carl  G.  Bergstrom  '35 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jorge  A.  Calvop'99 

Harry  F.  Danberg  75 

PaulE.  Evans  Jr.  71 

Amaro  Goncalves  '85 

Robert  V.  Bergstrom  '39 

MarkCandello'75 

Kevin  W.  Daoust  '95 

Matthew  J.  Evers  '90 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William 

Norman  A.  Bergstrom  Jr.  '68 

Richard  J.  Capistran  '93 

John  E.  Darling  '58 

Howard  S.  Ewing  '50 

Goodejr.p'98 

Stephen  E.  Bernacki  70 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  Capozzi  p'98 

Ian  A.  Davidson  '53 

Paul  J.  Exner'71 

Willard  W.  Goodwin  Jr.  '63 

Daniel  T.  Bernatowicz  '52 

Hilding  O.  Carlson  '3 1 

James  W.  Davis  73 

John  A.  Facca  '67 

John  W.  Gordeuk  79 

Kathleen  Berthelette  '80 

Lauren  M.  Hagstrom  Carlson  '86 

Truman  S.  Dayton  '46 

Robert  Fair  75 

Philip  J.  Gow'43 

Kent  E.  Berwick  75 

Richard  H.  Carlson  '50 

PhillipS.  Dean  '35 

George  K.  Fairbanks  '68 

Robert  H.  Gowdy  '63 

Melissa  M.  Besse  '91 

William  W.Carlson '81 

Paul  J.  DeAndrea  75 

Jeffrey  A.  F'arash  76 

The  Graco  Foundation 

Carl  W.  Bettcher  Jr.  '41 

Matthew  J.  Caron '88 

Chester  A.  Deane  '27 

George  A.  Fargo  Jr.  '66 

Alan  F.  Graham  79 

Francis  J.  Bigda  '49 

Gary  E.  Carver  74 

Robert  H.  DeFlescoJr.  '68 

James  E.  Fay  '61 

Robert  J.  Grande  76 

Scott  W.  Bishop  '88 

Donald  E.  Casperson  '69 

Richard  W.  DeLand  '69 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Leslie  C.  Feigin  p'98 

Jeffrey  W.  Gravdahl  76 

Peter  G.  Bladen  70 

Robert  R.  Cassanelli  '62 

Duane  A.  Delfosse  '80 

Robert  E.  Ferguson  '33 

Stanley  T.  Graveline  '89 

Bonnie  I.  Cook  Blair '81 

Dexter  E.  Cate  '51 

Robert  R.  Demers  '68 

Joseph  A.  Ferrari  Jr.  '87 

Linda  Gray  p'99 

Phillip  G.  Blair '51 

Robert  E.  Cavallaro  '65 

John  S.  Demko  '59 

Malcolm  E.  Ferson  '49 

Peter  Gray  IV  '66 

Jeffrey  E.  Blaisdell  73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jules  P.  Cayerp'97 

Edward  C.  Dench  '39 

Michael  R.  Fillion  '90 

Carmelo  S.  Greco  '30 

Robert  W.  Blake  '33 

Ernst  E.  Chenovveth  '64 

Dr.  &  Mrs.  Buddy  Denison  p'99 

Morton  S.  Fine  '37 

Ronald  G.  Greene  '65 

WPI  Journal 


23 


1995-96     WPI 

HONOR     ROLL     OF     DONORS 

Barbara  J.  Grimm  '88 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  C. 

Raymond  F.  LaBine  '53 

Frank  D.  Manter  '67 

William  J.  Moroney  '53 

John  R.  Grimwade  79 

Jakobsen  p'97 

Frank  J.  Labuzp'81 

John  F.  Mar  '83 

Christopher  G.  Morosas  77 

Halsey  E.  Griswold  '51 

Daniel  M.  Jasininski  '80 

James  M.  Lach  '93 

Michael  A.  Marando  '90 

Elizabeth  A.  Morrison  '81 

Frank  A.  Gross  Jr.  '46 

Richard  H.  Jenkins  II  79 

Joyce  M.  Lachance  '82 

Francis  H.  Marchand  '37 

Homer  R.  Morrison  '35* 

Ronald  J.  Grzelak  70 

Stephen  G.  Jennette  76 

Jeffrey  J.  Lacko  75 

John  J.  Marczewski  '85 

Morrison  Knudsen  Corporation 

Thomas  M.  Gudewicz  78 

Ronald  E.  Jodoin  '68 

Ronald  M.  Lafreniere  74 

Richard  G.  Marden  '3  1 

Robert  H.  Morse  '64 

J.  Edward  Guild  '36 

Kenneth  E.  Johnson  '65 

Edward  F.  Lally  '67 

Marion  Merrell  Dow  Inc. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Allan  S.  Mosier  gp 

Diane  M.  Gunn  76 

Lawrence  E.  Johnson  '68 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  A.  Lamb  gp 

Edward  R.  Markert  '34 

John  H.  Moulton  78 

Gordon  T.  Gurney  '41 

Robert  D.Johnson  '52 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  J. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  George  W. 

William  F.Mufatti '51 

Frank  G.  Gustafson  '40 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jay 

Lamb  Sr.  p'95 

Martel  p'99 

Robert  B.  Mulholland  Jr.  '60 

Lynn  L.  Gustafson  '82 

Johnson  Sr.  p'97 

Raymond  J.  Lambert  79 

Arthur  E.  Martell  '38 

Peter  W.  Mullarkey  79 

Richard  G.  Gutowski  '89 

Johnson  &  Higgins 

Joan  M.  Landry  '85 

Frederick  W.  Marvin  '46 

Peter  J.  Mulvihill  78 

Jacob  J.  Hagopian  '39 

johnD.Jolls'70 

Roland  A.  Lariviere  74 

Edward  M.  Mason  70 

Douglas  C.  Murdoch  '91 

Alan  R.  Hahnel  74 

Michael  R.Jones '85 

Ernest  A.  Larose  '50 

John  R.  Mason  III  74 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard 

David  C.  Hall  '84 

Asher  L.  Joslin  '33 

Michael  R.  Latina  '68 

Massachusetts  Mutual  Life 

Murdockp'98 

Richard  J.  Hall  'S3 

EdmondH.Judd'50 

Paul  G.  Laurienzo  '81 

Insurance  Co. 

Eugene  L.  Murphy  '68 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  H alien  gp 

Stephen  W.  Juhnevicz  '88 

Lawrence  R.  Lavallee  '59 

Roger  G.  Massey  '62 

William  F.  Murphy  Jr.  '46 

Norman  M.  Hardy  '60 

Jane  E.  June  p'97 

Aaron  W.  Laznovsky  '91 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard 

Russell  B.  Naber  74 

Harris  Corporation 

Charles  A.  Jutras  74 

Francis).  Leahy  III  78 

Mastersonp'91 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald  H. 

Deborah  L.  Harrow  '84 

Mark  A.  Jutras '85 

Richard  G  Ledoux  '61 

Ronnie  R.  Materniak  75 

Nadeaup'92 

John  N.  Hartwell  '46 

Edward  A.  Kacmarcik  '5 1 

William  M.  Ledoux  79 

Scott  E.  Mathews  '82 

Walter  S.  Nagorski  70 

Donald  W.  Haskins  '33 

Kenneth  A.  Kadezabek  '82 

Mrs.  Harold  A.  LeDuc  '35 

Mr.  Robert  Matthews  p'95 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stanley 

Irving  M.  Hass  '49 

Edward  W.  Kaleskas  '68 

Yau-Shing  Lee  '85 

Laura  L.  Mattick  78 

Narkevicius  p'97 

John  L.  Hawley  '50 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  C.  William 

Todd  K  Leen  77 

Keith  J.  Mattioli'87 

National  Steel  Corp. 

Howard  W.  Haynes  '38 

Kaman  II  p'96 

Mark  F.  Lefebvre  '80 

Paul  D.  Matukaitis  '68 

Ronald  F.  Naventi  '66 

Joseph  J.  Hearne  '46 

Stephen  E.  Kaminski  73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Peter  Leite  p'98 

Conrad  F.  Matuzek  '61 

Richard  H.Nelson '61 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Raymond  L. 

Amar  V.  Kapur  '65 

Roger  R.  Lesieur  '61 

William  H.  Mawdsley  73 

Stephen  E.  Nelson  '90 

Hebertp'97 

Marie  H.  Karger 

John  P.  Letourneau  '80 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  William 

Susan  M.  Stidsen 

Joachim  R.  Heck  '93 

James  E.  Karkos  '90 

Gary  L.  Leventhal  '69 

Mazzaccaro  p'98 

Nerkowski  '85 

Richard  H.  Hedlund  '64 

ChesterJ.  Kasper  '68 

Nathan  R.  Levine  '36 

Michael  J.  Mazzucco  '86 

Richard  J.  Newhouse  75 

David  K.  Heebner  '67 

Elisabeth  Kosciuczyk 

James  Li  '94 

John  H.  McCabe  '68 

Louis  W.  Nicholls  '85 

William  C.  Hees  '59 

Kassman  '8 1 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kui-Shing  Li  p'98 

James  T.McCall'81 

Donald  L.  Nichols  '46 

John  C.  Heid  76 

Redha  F.  Kattan  '84 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  Lin  p'98 

Peter  E.  McCormick  '65 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gordon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Paul  L. 

George  H.  Kayjr.  '54 

Edward  E.  Lindberg  '60 

Gerald  P.  McCullough  74 

Nichols  p'99 

Heirtzler  p'94 

Thomas  C.  Kee  '54 

Paul  R.  Lindberg  '66 

David  McEwan  '39 

PatrickJ.  Nicholson  78 

Paul  L.  Heirtzler  Jr.  '94 

Thomas  R.  Keefe  '59 

Robert  S.  Lloyd  '39 

Roger  C.  McGee  '63 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Terence 

Barrv  ).  Heitner  76 

MelG.  Keegan'61 

David  J.  Lodigiani  79 

Eugene  M.  McGrail  '88 

Nickolette  p'93 

John  R.  Herr  '80 

Roger  B.Keilig '81 

Calvin  F.  Long  '46 

McGraw-Hill  Inc. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  J. 

Neil  C.  Herring  72 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  James 

Dorothy  Long  p'92 

David  F.  McGuigan  74 

Nicolaisen  p'98 

Carl  P.  Hershneld  '48 

Kelleherp'97 

Michelle  L.  LeBlanc  Loring  '91 

John  D.  McKeogh  '51 

Herman  A.  Nied  '50 

Ms.  Maria  Hetzel  p'73 

Jeffrey  T.  Kelly  '86 

David  M.  Lounsbury  77 

Richard  H.  McMahan  Jr.  '50 

Eric  M.  Nielsen  '95 

Robert  D.  Hickey  '68 

Daniel  J.  Kennefick  79 

Russell  A.  LovellJr.''4() 

John  B.  McMaster  '45 

Robert  W.  Nikander  '48 

Diane  Hirsch  p'96 

Michael  S.  Kenniston  78 

Malcolm  E.  Low  '61 

Thomas  G.  McNeice  76 

NIKE  Inc. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  J. 

Robert  J.  Kenny  '87 

Eugene  F.  Lowe  Jr.  '30 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert 

Michael  J.  Norton  '86 

Hodum  p'94 

Wilmot  J.  Keogh  '43 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Brian  Lowell  p'97 

McTagueJr.  p'94 

Richard  J.  Norton  '63 

Allen  H.  Hoffman  '63 

Roger  J.  Kern  70 

David  B.  Luber  '65 

John  L.  Meader  79 

Augustus  J.  Nunes  '81 

Kenneth  A.  Hogue  '8 1 

Sidney  Kessler  '51 

Vilho  A.  Lucander  '56 

The  Medtronic  Foundation 

Paul  G.  Nystrom  '4 1 

Allen  G.  Holbrook  '80 

Benjamin  Khoudari  75 

Alvin  A.  Luce  '4 1 

Jill  E.  Fabricant  Meier  '80 

Erin  M.  O'Connell  '86 

Frank  S.  Holby  '48 

Thomas  M.  Kiely  '68 

Robert  M.  Luce  '51 

James  H.  Meiklejohn  Jr.  '50 

Jordan  C.  O'Connor  '80 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  T. 

Joseph  F.  Kieronski  '67 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  G. 

Bernard  J.  Meister  '62 

Thomas  J.  O'Connor  '59 

Holcombp'98 

John  L.  Kilguss  '67 

Lugp'99 

David  D.  Melanson  '93 

Daniel  P.  O'Donnell  '95 

Patricia  A.  Holden  '83 

Kelly  A.  King  '95 

John  (.  Luikeyjr.  73 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Alfred  J.  Mellop'97 

Anne  E.  O'Keefe  '83 

Thomas  C.  Hollocher  Jr.  '53 

Beth  Driscoll  Kinney  79 

David  G.  Lund  '92 

Jennifer  L.  Mellone  '86 

James  A.  O'Neill  '93 

Robert  M.Holt '66 

Gary  L.  Kiontke  75 

Dr.  Robert  Lundin  78 

Eduardo  A.  Mendez  '67 

James  F.  O'Reagan  '49 

Kenneth  A.  Homon  '62 

John  P.  Kirby  78 

Frederick  H.  Lutze  Jr.  '59 

Orlando  R.  Mendez  '67 

Michael  W.  Oakes  77 

Shane  A.  Hooker  '94 

Steven  J.  Kirincich  '89 

John  J.  Lyons  70 

Ronald  L.  Merrill  '59 

David  F.  Oberhauser  '90 

Malcolm  D.  Horton  '50 

Donald  E.  Kirk  '59 

Kenneth  A.  Lyons  '46 

Merrill  Lynch  &  Co.  Inc. 

David  J.  Ofcarcik'81 

Brenda  S.  Hough 

Ivan  H.  Kirsch  '60 

Michael  A.  MacAllister  '81 

Paul  J.  Messias'90 

John  W.  Oldham  '87 

Garabed  Hovhanesian  '46 

Kimberly  A  Berg  Kitchens  '83 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  A. 

John  R.  Messier  76 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edmund 

James  B.  Howe  77 

Carlton  B.  Klein  78 

MacDonald  p'97 

Richard  T.  Messinger  '40 

Olson  p'96 

Donald  W.  Howe  Jr.  '38 

Charles  S.  Knothe  '66 

Donald  J.  MacKinnon  III  '80 

Marc  B.  Meunier  77 

Norman  R.  Olson  '48 

Harris  C.  Howland  Sr.  70 

Douglas  A.  Knowles  76 

Donald  G.  MacMillan  '35 

Leon  M.  Meyer  76 

Steven  W.  Opolski  '84 

Mark  Hubelbank  '68 

Nancy  L.  Koczera  '93 

Keith  A.  MacNeal  '84 

Robert  A.  Meyer  '52 

John  C.  Orcutt  '50 

Douglas  E.  Hudson  '83 

Russell  H.  Koelsch  '65 

Ronald  E.  Macon 

William  B.  Merke  '58 

John  J.  Osborn  '33 

Arthur  J.  Hughes  79 

Joseph  W.  Kolis  79 

Anne  L.  Madara  76 

Stanley  L.Miller '51 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Kenneth 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stephen  S.  Hull  p'79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Kondzela  p'90 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gerald 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jaime  G. 

Otto  p'98 

Leonard  G.  Humphrevjr.  '35 

Andrew  M.  Kopach  76 

Maffetone  p'98 

Miranda  p'99 

Bridgette  M.  Owen  '91 

Mrs.  Thomas  A.  Hyde  '33 

David  T.  Kosewski  '89 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Dennis 

Harry  H.  Mochon  Jr.  '49 

Edward  W.  Pacek  '41 

Michael  J.  Iassogna  '82 

Gregory  W.  Koss  78 

Magnificop'97 

Edward  J.  Mofhtt '84 

John  C.  Pacheco  '86 

ICI  Americas  Inc. 

Darwin  W.  Kovacs  73 

William  C.  Maine  '36 

Bernard  A.  Mongilio  '81 

Joseph  P.  Padayhag  '91 

George  Idlis  '54 

Mchael  J.  Kozakiewicz  74 

Stephen  A.  Maiorano  73 

Robert  H.  Montgomery  Jr.  '43 

Arthur  A.  Padovano  '65 

Allen  J.  Ikalainen  '67 

Lisa  A.  Krauss  '80 

DonJ.J.Maki'80 

Edward  V.  Montville  '36 

Ms.  Lorraine  Page  p'97 

Kevin  S.  Ingle  78 

Donald  H.  Kray  73 

David  A.  Maldonado'91 

Jeffrey  H.  Moody  75 

Janice  E.  Painter  74 

James  F.  Ingraham  Sr.  74 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ulf  A.  Kruegerp'97 

A.  George  Mallis  '38 

Aram  Mooradian  '59 

Raymond  T.  Pajer  70 

Salvatore  J.  Intagliata  '48 

Gary  R.  Krumpholz  78 

John  F.  MalloyJr.  '54 

Jessica  Moore  p'96 

Lloyd  S.  Palter  70 

Leighton  Jackson  '33 

Andrew  P.  Kubicki  '88 

Paul  A.  Mandeville  'SO 

Herbert  S.  Moores  '61 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Eugene  Papp  p'98 

Stephen  R.Jackson  '85 

Dinesh  V.  Kudalkar  '89 

Thomas  C.  Mandle  76 

Anson  B.  Moran  '66 

Stephen  A.  Parent  79 

Edward  H.Jacobs  '42 

Roger  W.  Kuenzel  '59 

Harry  S.  Mankey  '50 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  M.  Moran  p'97 

Gordon  M.  Parker  '61 

William  A.  Jacques  '49 

David  A.  Kujala  '52 

Lloyd  G.  iMann  '44 

Patrick  T.  Moran  '65 

Kenneth  I.  Parker  '61 

Vincent  M.  La  Sorsa  '46 

Larry  B.  Manor  '84 

Stephen  J.  Morgan  '82 

Robert  E.  Parker  '64 

24 


December  1996 


■«MM.^MBMHAU.0.-mm«JtJ^m«.1^l.«.a»l»  «^.~W^^^Ju, 


flHHHHHHHHHHHMHHHHHMHBHHHHNIM               - 

Francis  J.  Parnin  '95 

Barbara  A.  Reinckep'79 

Scott  Shurr  77 

Peter  L.  Terwilliger  '87 

Mr  &  Mrs.  Richard  R. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Juan  Miguel 

Robert  D.  Renn  '67 

Ojars  M.  Silarais  '65 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Maurice 

White  p'92 

Parodi  p'97 

Constantine  Rhodes  '57 

Silicon  Graphics  Inc. 

Theriaultp'98 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  E.  While  p'97 

Lawrence  D.  Patty  74 

Marcus  A.  Rhodes  Jr.  '40 

Carl  G.  Silverberg  '33 

Leslie  A.  Thomas  '91 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Bruce  Whitman  p'99 

Laima  T.  Pauliukonis  77 

Norman  E.  Rhodes  Jr.  '94 

Peter  Simonson  79 

Donald  W.  Thompson  '50 

Mark  J.  Whitney  74 

Keith  B.  Payea  79 

Douglas  H.  Rich  '84 

Williams  A.  Simpson  III  '84 

Michael  A.  Thompson  '8 1 

Benedict  C.  Wibisono  '94 

James  D.  Pearl  '82 

Mark  S.  Richards  73 

George  T.  Single  p'93 

Richard  E.  Thompson  '59 

James  C.  Wilkinson  '91 

Philip  K.  Pearson  '83 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Robert  M. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  Skarin  p'97 

Ronald  E.  Thompson  '52 

Bruce  G.Willbrant  '60 

John  ¥.  Peavey  '39 

Rioux  p'98 

Neil  J.  Skidell'87 

Walker  T.  Thompson  '62 

I  leyward  S.  Williams  '66 

Paul  G.  Pender  '88 

Donald  B.  Robertson  '63 

William  A.  Slaglejr.  '33 

Wallace  B.  Thompson  Jr.  '49 

John  E.  Wilson  '46 

Dr.  Jose  A.  Pereyo  p'95 

Paul  E.  Robinson  '93 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  W.  Sloan  p'89 

Thomson  Financial  Services 

Roger  D.  Wilson  70 

Edward  G.  Perkins  72 

Robert  W.  Rodier  '5 1 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  Sluterp'96 

Michael  C.  Thorogood  77 

William  M.Wilson '35 

William  F.  Perkins  '80 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  S. 

James  W.  Small  70 

George  T  Thrasher  '67 

Roger  M.  Winans  '63 

Edward  B.  Pero  '66 

Rodolewicz  p'99 

Anthony  M.  Smith  '91 

Ronald  S.  Tiberio  '92 

Jeffrey  S.  Wnek  75 

Andrew  T.  Perreault  '69 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  R. 

Carlos  W.  Smith  '80 

Brian  M.  Timura  78 

Robert  A.  W'ojciak'87 

Richard  G.  Perreault  '68 

Rollins  p'95 

David  K.  Smith  '62 

Mark  S.  Tino  '80 

Stephen  J.  Wojciak  75 

Kenneth  E.  Perry  '86 

Robert  J.  Rose  '69 

David  K  Smith  '67 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Antonio 

Vincent  G.Wolff  79 

Russell  E.  Person  '63 

HarveyJ.  Rosenteld  '59 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edwin  M. 

Toledo  p'98 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  Wood  p'98 

Judith  E.  Peters  '92 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Sigurd 

Smith  p'94 

Margaret  E.  Toomey  '90 

Ronald  W.  Wood  '65 

Kyle  Petersen  '90 

Rosenkaimer  p'98 

Gregory  F'.X.  Smith  78 

NoelTottiJr.  '42 

Kimball  R.  Woodbury  '44 

C.  Raymond  Peterson  '44 

PhillipJ.Roux'79 

John  J.  Smith  76 

P.  Brady  Townsend  '95 

Gordon  G.  Woodfall  74 

Ncal  D.  Peterson  '5 1 

Pierce  E.  Rowe  '61 

Myron  H.  Smith  '60 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Patrick  L. 

City  of  Worcester 

Paul  A.  Peterson  78 

Jennifer  E.  Udall  Roy  '84 

kusscll  M.  Smith  '47 

Townsend  p'95 

James  V.  Works  '88 

Richard  M.  Peterson  74 

Steven  H.  Roy  '83 

Stephen  H.  Smith  '66 

Jeffrey  F.  Trask  '81 

Michael  J.  Wozniak  '86 

Michael  A.  Petkewich  '85 

James  E.  Royjr.  '67 

Joseph  V.  Smolinski  '40 

Paul  G.  Trudel  '67 

Christopher  L.  Wraight  '82 

Stephen  W.  Petroff  '68 

Frederick  E.  Roys  '82 

Thomas  E.  Snead  '80 

Steve  A.  Tuch  '82 

Neal  T.  Wright  76 

Peter  R.  Picard  '67 

James  F.  Rubino  74 

John  A.  Snyder  '49 

B.  Lee  Turtle  '69 

LisaM.Wylie'80 

David  P.  Picarillo  '88 

Donald  W.  Rule  '69 

Richard  F.  Socha  73 

Vincent  D.Tyer  III  '90 

John  H.  Wyman  '36 

James  W.  Pierce  '65 

Stephen  H.  Rusckowski  79 

ThomasJ.  Socha  74 

Paul  W.  Ulcickas  '63 

Robert  E.  Yaeger  '42 

Wayne  L.  Pierce  '68 

James  D.  Russell  77 

Society  of  Fire  Protection 

Richard  M.Urella '81 

Yankee  Gas  Services  ( j>. 

Stanley  P.  Pietrewicz  '67 

William  A.  Russell  '26 

Engineers 

David  J.  Usher  '64 

Robert  H.  York  '62 

Michael  D.  Piispanen  '88 

Gregory  P.  Ruthven  77 

Walter  H.  Sodano  '40 

Alan  M.  Vale  '92 

Marshall  S.  Young  '83 

Walter  E.  Pillartzjr.  '61 

Erin  T.  Ryan  '89 

Edward  G.  Sofio  '86 

Erik  C.  Van  Bork  '84 

Jon  A.  Zapolski  '92 

Edward  W.  Piltzecker  Jr.  '67 

Wayne  M.  Saari  '82 

Stanley  W.Sokoloff '59 

Milford  R.  VanDusen  '47 

Francis  P.  Zarette  78 

Mark  F.  Pittenger  79 

Safety-Kleen  Corp. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  Solan  p'99 

Varian  Associates  Inc. 

Robert  E.  Zawistowski  78 

William  F.  Pittore  78 

Lawrence  W.  Saint  74 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Louis  P. 

Robert  P.  Vary '91 

George  J.  Zewski  '48 

John  F.  Pohlocki  '69 

Takayuki  Sakai  '91 

Solferino  p'88 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  Verrill  p'96 

Hong  Zhu  '94 

Joseph  F.  Pofit  '46 

Peter  L.  Saloman  '82 

Albert  H.  Soloway  '48 

Andrew  V.  Vesper  '85 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  R. 

Guenther  T.  Pollnow  '66 

Ellsworth  M.  Sammet  '49 

TimothyJ.  Somadelis  '82 

Donald  C.  Vibber  '  $4 

Zimmerman  gp 

Kenneth  A.  Poole  78 

Douglas  R.  Sandor  '81 

Harry  A.  Sorensen  '30 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Joseph  Vieira  p'99 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Donald  Zmiti  p'96 

David  F.  Pouliot  73 

Donald  E.  Sands  '51 

Raymond  W.  Southworth  '43 

Andrew  J.  Viszmeg  '85 

Louis  W.  Zitnay  70 

A.  Hamilton  Powell  '37 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  B.  Ramon 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Frank  Spadazzip'96 

Madhukar  B.  Vora  '65 

Zurn  Industries  Inc. 

Christine  E.  Powers  75 

Sanna  p'93 

Gregg  V.  Speer  '84 

James  S.  Wachalajr.  '88 

John  D.  Powers  72 

Joseph  R.  Santosuosso  '63 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Daniel  W. 

Geoffrey  J.  Wadge'81 

Stephen  J.  Powlishen  74 

John  D.  Saunier  '49 

Spellacyp'99 

Charles  M.  Waldron  74 

Robert  A.  Pratt  '53 

Lawrence  A.  Savage  '8 1 

Carlos  N.  Spitz  '68 

Brian  F.  Walker  '82 

William  F.  Pratt  '67 

David  E.  Sawyer  76 

Robert  A.  St.  Jean  '60 

Kevin  F.  Wall  76 

Irvin  S.  Press  74 

Elton  J.  Sceggel  '42 

Roland  R.  St.  Louis  Sr.  '52 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  J.  Walsh  p'97 

Maurice  Pressman  '38 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard  T. 

Stephen  J.  Stadnickijr.  '68 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Willy  Walter  p'93 

MackJ.  Prince  '49 

Schachnerp'92 

Standex  International  Corp. 

S.  William  Wandle  Jr.  '64 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Stephen 

Richard  S.  Schaufeld  76 

George  E.  Stannard  '43 

Daniel  P.  Ward  '84 

Prochniakp'95 

Timothy  R.  Schmoyer  '87 

Thomas  S.  Staronjr.  '62 

Louis  A.  Wargo  '64 

Russell  C.  Proctor  '42 

Henry  A.  Schneck  '65 

Joseph  J.  Staszowski  73 

Paul  D.  Warner  '93 

Provident  Mutual 

Kurt  A.  Schneider  '5 1 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  David  C. 

Andrew  C.  Warner  Jr.  '66 

Life  Insurance  Company 

Robert  W.  Schomber  '61 

Stewart  p'96 

Jerry  H.  Warren  '80 

Michael  S.  Przybyla  '81 

Richard  E.  Schonning  78 

Paul  B.  Stewart  '60 

Thomas  W.  Warzeka  '86 

Charles  C.  Puffer '35 

Raymond  W.  Schuh  '37 

Mary -Jane  Hall  Stimson  '81 

Winthrop  M.  Wassenar  '59 

Puget  Sound  Power  &  Light  Co. 

Schuller  Fund 

Philip  B.  Stiness  '84 

John  W.  Watkins  75 

Michael  W.  Pugh  '81 

Michael  S.  Schultz  75 

Don  Lee  Stockton 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  P.  Warm  p'90 

Jay  J.  Pulli  75 

Roy  N.  Schumacher  '80 

Frank  E.  Stone  '64 

Leonard  J.  Weckel  '66 

William  U.  Purselljr.  '59 

Stephen  C.  Schwann  '68 

Joan  E.  Stone  77 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Eugene  J.  Welch  p'99 

Donald  W.  Putnam  '32 

Eric  L.  Schwartz  '84 

Norman  P.  Stotz  '58 

Richard  P.  Welch  '80 

Frederick  S.  Pyne  '39 

Charles  P.  Scopelitis  73 

Robert  C.  Stow  '65 

Rory  D.  Welch  '90 

Michael  P.  Quarrey  '83 

Robert  J.  Scott  '69 

ThomasJ.  Strnad  76 

William  T.  Wells  '46 

Manuel  J.  Queijo  '44 

Roy  A.  Seabergjr.  '56 

Michael  R.  Strong  '93 

Ronald  P.  Wen  '88 

John  J.  Quinlan  '45 

Robert  E.  Seamon  '61 

David  B.  Sullivan  '59 

Talbot  F.  Wentworth  '37 

Karl  L.  Radke  79 

Bernard  J.  Seastrom  '60 

James  C.J.  Sullivan  '50 

Douglas  J.  West  79 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Sheikh  A. 

Joseph  J.  Sedor  '87 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Steven  Sundre  gp 

James  A.  West  '87 

Rahman  p'98 

David  J.  Seibel  '85 

Francis  B.  Swenson  '38 

Robert  F.  West  '39 

Adam  J.  Rasco '29 

Ralph  E.  Sellarsjr.  '58 

Alexander  Swetzjr.  '59 

Richard  T.  Wester  '60 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Richard 

William  A.  Seubert  '54 

Frank  Barry  Sylvia  Sr.  '64 

Western  Massachusetts 

Recchia  p'95 

Lisabeth  T.  Shablin  '86 

C.  Stephen  Szlatenyi  Jr.  73 

Electric  Co. 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Ronald 

Peter  M.  Sharpe  '80 

Bradford  Tannebring  78 

Westinghouse  Education  Fund 

Redmond  p'87 

Neil  M.  Shea  '67 

Michael  G.  Tashjian  '34 

Mrs.  Robert  Wetzel  p'86 

Robert  P.  Reed  79 

Wayne  M.  Shelburne  '93 

Henry  D.  Taylor  '51 

Joseph  E.  Whalen  '66 

Ronald  D.  Rehlcamp  '68 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  Gene  Sheldon  p'99 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  J.  Teganp'96 

Richard  V  Whalen  '80 

John  L.  Reid  '5 1 

Robert  W.  Sherburne  78 

Eugene  J.  Teir  '33 

John  J.  Wheeler  '49 

Robert  B.  Reidy  '69 

David  J.  Sheridan  79 

Tektronix  Inc. 

Terry  A.  Wheeler  '82 

Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  E. 

Jennifer  J.  Shiel  '94 

Douglas  A.  Tenney  '86 

Gordon  P.  Whitcomb  '34 

Reidy  Sr.  p'96 

Howard  A.  Sholl  '60 

Andrew  D.  Terwilleger  '62 

J* 


'.*m 


■uiilLUHIlllBlf 


inc  wutoo  ur  nuuni  nuuni         ire.  ■  utn,  ■  nm 


■■■  ■  ft i    i  ill.  unuwnunua 


SPRING       1997 


^fte  cNCusw  in  tfie  ^/Cactiine 

Frederick    Bianchi    Conducts    the    Virtual    Orchestra 


^STIN   GIVING 


;  5 


* : 


-  On  Trees  - 

"I  really  like  trees.  Over  the  years,  I've  planted  more  than  1,500  on  my  property  in  Vermont.  I  have  many  vari- 
eties, but  I  prefer  the  oak.  It's  a  good  sturdy  tree.  You  never  see  one  blown  down  or  uprooted,  because  the  oak's 
root  structure  is  about  equal  in  depth  to  the  height  of  the  tree.  Its  natural  growth  provides  plenty  of  shade  above 
and  excellent  water  retention  and  maintenance  of  the  water  table  below.  When  you  plant  an  oak  seedling,  you're 
going  to  get  a  tree  you  can  count  on,  and  that's  a  great  legacy  for  the  future." 

-  On  Planned  Giving  at  WPI  - 

"Like  planting  oaks,  planned  giving  just  makes  a  lot  of  sense.  I  tell  all  my  friends  every  chance  I  get  that  they  owe 
it  to  themselves  to  look  into  deferred  gift  plans  like  the  WPI  Pooled  Income  Fund.  I've  made  six  gifts  to  the  Fund 
thus  far,  all  of  them  with  appreciated  stocks.  This  way  I  avoid  paying  capital  gains  taxes  and  get  a  substantial  char- 
itable deduction.  And  every  three  months  I  get  a  nice  income  check  that's  about  three  times  the  dividends 
I  received  from  the  stock.  Best  of  all,  anybody  can  designate  how  their  gift  will  eventually  be  used.  In  my  case, 
my  gifts  will  eventually  be  added  to  WPI's  endowment  to  be  used  for  campus  landscaping — especially  for  trees. 
You  might  say  I've  planted  the  seeds  for  a  lasting  legacy  at  WPI,  too!" 

If  you  would  like  to  join  Ted  Coe  and  203  others  who  are  enjoying  the  many  benefits  of planned  giving  at  WPI, 
please  contact  Liz  Siladi,  Director  of  Planned  Giving,  at  1-888-WPI  GIFT. 


VOLUME  C,  NO.  1,  SPRING  1997 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


The  Silicon  Symphony  By  Ray  Bert  '93 

With  powerful  computers,  a  trucldoad  of  equipment,  and  hundreds  of  hours 

of  work,  Music  Professor  Frederick  Bianchi  can  create  an  authentic  digital 

orchestra.  He  says  he'd  like  to  use  it  to  establish  a  new  operatic  tradition. 

Page  4 

The  Class  of  Aught  Aught  By  Joe  Parker-  '93 

The  Class  of  1900  and  the  Class  of  2000  each  found  a  school  in  transition. 

Both  felt  the  challenge  of  WPI's  rigorous  academics.  And  both  sensed  the 

special  obligation  that  comes  with  graduating  on  the  cusp  of  a  new  century. 

Page  10 

The  Best  Laid  Plans  By  Michael  IV.  Dorsey 

In  the  final  installment  of  this  two-part  series  on  the  history  of  the 

WPI  Plan,  we  look  at  the  trials,  tribulations  and  triumphs  of  the  Plan's 

implementation  and  evolution,  and  at  what  may  lie  ahead  for  this 

groundbreaking  program. 

Page  17 

The  Dawn  of  a  New  Global  Era  By  Michael  IV.  Dorsey 

Inaugurating  a  new  series  on  the  issues  and  opportunities  WPI  faces  with 

the  approach  of  a  new  millenium,  the  Journal  explores  the  critical  need  in 

today's  shrinking  world  to  help  students  acquire  a  global  perspective. 

Page  33 


DEPARTMENTS 


Letters  Kudos  for  WPI  Plan  Special  Issue;  A  Feather  in  Roy  Seaberg's  Golf  Cap.  Page  2 

Advance  Word  Enough  People  Who  Cared,  By  Michael  W.  Dorsey.  Page  3 

Final  Word  Revealing  the  Wonders  of  the  North  Atlantic,  By  Joan  Killough -Miller.  Page  40 


On  the  cover:  Original  painting  by  Laura  Tedeschi.  Story  on  page  4.   Back  cover: 

Jonathan  Bird  '90  cruises  the  waters  of  the  North  Atlantic  on  an  underwater  "scooter." 

Photo  by  Tom  Krasuski  '92;  courtesy  Oceanic  Research  Group.  Story  on  page  40. 


Staff  of  the  UTI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelbwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask  • 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Samuel  Mencow  '37,  chairman,  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  vice  chairman,  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,  James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firlajr.  '60, 

Joel  P.  Greene  '69,  William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  UTI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  by 

the  Office  of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Vt.  Printed  in  the  U.S.A. 

Diverse  views  presented  m  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  official  UTI  policies.  We  welcome  letters  to  the  editor.  Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 

WPI  Journal,  UTI,  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280  •  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  Fax:  (508)  831-6004  •  Electronic  Mail,  wpi-joumal@wpi.edu  •  World  Wide  Web: 

bttp://vrwTV.wpi.edu/+Journal/  •  Postmaster:  Ifundeliverable,  please  send  Form  3519  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©1997.  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


LETTERS 


Kudos  for  WPI  Plan 
Special  Issue 


TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  have  just  read  my  first  copy  of  the  WPI  Journal  (October  1996). 
As  the  father  of  a  WPI  freshman,  I  found  several  of  the  articles  to  be 
quite  enlightening.  I  especially  liked  "A  Gateway  to  Adulthood,"  which 
explained  more  of  the  philosophy  behind  WPI's  course  structure  than 
all  of  the  recruitment  and  freshman  orientation  materials  that  were  sent 
throughout  my  son's  high  school  senior  year  and  beyond.  I  strongly  recom- 
mend that  this  article  be  included  in  future  college  application  materials  sent 
to  potential  new  students. 

PHILIP  C.  HARANG,  ACTON,  MASS. 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  can't  begin  to  tell  you  how  much  I  enjoyed  the  October  1996 

WPI  Journal. 

I  graduated  in  1965  before  this  major  change  was  implemented.  I 
thought  there  were  discussions  in  the  works  at  that  time,  but  I  never  had  a 
clear  understanding  of  how  it  all  took  place  and  who  the  players  were.  The 
articles  in  this  issue  have  added  a  great  deal  of  knowledge  and  depth  to  my 
understanding  of  the  WPI  Plan. 

RICHARD  S.  OLSON  '65,  BRADENTON,  FLA. 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

Congratulations  on  the  October  1996  WPI  Journal.  It  was  a  truly  excellent  edi- 
tion. I  thoroughly  enjoyed  it  and  certainly  learned  a  lot.  Keep  up  the  good  work. 
PAUL  A.  ALLAIRE  '60,  CHAIRMAN,  XEROX  CORPORATION 

A  Feather  in  Seaberg's  Golf  Cap 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

After  reading  in  the  October  1996  issue  about  Roy  Seaberg's  retirement  as 
director  of  special  admissions,  I  felt  a  bit  wistful  to  see  another  good  friend 
being  ushered  into  the  greener  pastures  of  golfing. 

In  addition  to  the  praise  he  deserves  for  his  role  in  the  development  of  the 
WPI  Plan,  Roy  merits  a  feather  in  his  golf  cap  for  coming  up  with  the  idea  of 
establishing  the  Bangkok  Project  Center.  It  happened  one  afternoon  at  the 
Royal  Bangkok  Sport  Polo  Club  during  Roy's  annual  trip  to  Thailand.  After 
the  busy  morning,  Roy,  Mike  Gerson  '63  and  I  were  enjoying  a  discussion  of 
our  morning  work. 

We  talked  about  WPI's  Washington  and  London  project  centers,  as  well  as 
moves  that  were  afoot  to  establish  centers  in  Hong  Kong  and  Taiwan.  "Why 
don't  we  have  a  Bangkok  Project  Center,"  Roy  suggested.  Afterward,  he  brought 
over  documents  and  an  application  that  led  to  the  creation  of  the  center. 

That  was  in  the  mid-1980s.  The  first  group  of  five  students  arrived  at  the 
Bangkok  Project  Center  in  1990.  The  Expressway  and  Rapid  Transit  Authority 
of  Bangkok  was  an  early  project  sponsor,  thanks  to  the  support  of  Siva 
Charoernpong  '61,  who  was  the  organization's  governor.  Since  then,  two  pro- 
jects completed  in  Bangkok  have  been  winners  and  another  has  been  a  finalist  in 
the  annual  President's  IQP  Award  competition.  This  year  we  welcomed  a 
group  of  18  students  to  the  center. 

The  success  of  the  Bangkok  Project  Center  has  prompted  WPI  alumni  in 
Thailand  to  form  an  active  group  that  will  bridge  the  long-neglected  gap 
between  Worcester  and  Thailand  and  also  help  students  use  their  academic 
skills  to  enhance  the  real  world  in  this  country. 

The  credit  for  getting  all  this  started  must  be  given  to  Roy  Seaberg.  This 
feather  in  his  golf  cap  may  be  as  big  as  the  one  that  our  own  Tiger  Woods 
wears  in  his.  Roy  will  have  to  show  it  to  us  when  he  and  Tiger  are  in  Bangkok 

the  next  time. 

BOAKFAR  KETUNUTI  '57,  BANGKOK,  THAILAND 


Enoug 


L 


U> 


SPRING  1997 


ADVANCE     WORD 


ople  Who  Cared 

For  these  factors  of  uniqueness — the  constant  inquiry  into  identity,  the  contact  with  the 

workaday  world,  the  reconciliation  of  the  practical  with  the  scientific,  the  community  sense  of 

belonging — there  has  been  a  price.  There  have  been  contributions  of  tune  and  funds  and 

effort  far  beyond  the  accounting.  Nerves  have  been  rubbed  raw  with  abrasive  argument, 

careers  have  sometimes  been  mistakenly  shattered.  There  has  been  an  astonishing  number  of 

persons  willing  to  be  hurt  in  order  to  keep  faith  with  self  and  society,  and  the  integrity  thus 

given  to  the  Institute  is  its  proudest  claim  to  distinction. 

Today,  the  Institute  stands  solidly  atop  its  rounded  hill,  still  overlooking  the  City  and 

reaching  toward  the  sky.  It  stands  there  for  more  than  any  other  reason  because — by  some 

strange  and  wonderful  supply — there  have  always  been  enough  people  who  cared. 

Concluding  words  of  Two  Towers  by  Mildred  Tynieson  Petrie 


In  this  issue  of  the  WP1  Journal,  we 
conclude  our  two-part  series  on  the 
history  of  the  WTI  Plan,  the  univer- 
sity's project-based  undergraduate 
program.  In  part  one,  "A  Miracle  at 
Worcester"  (October  1996),  we  told  the 
remarkable  story  of  the  Plan's  birth.  In  the 
second  installment  (beginning  on  page  17), 
we  chronicle  the  monumental  effort 
involved  in  uprooting  WPI's  traditional 
engineering  curriculum,  replacing  it  with  a 
radically  different  approach  to  technological 
education,  maintaining  that  new  program  in 
the  face  of  a  host  of  internal  and  external 
threats,  and  now,  three  decades  later,  re- 
evaluating what  has  happened  to  the  Plan 
and  debating,  once  again,  how  to  craft  an 
undergraduate  curriculum  suitable  for  the 
challenges  of  the  decades  ahead. 

•  But  more  than  the  history  of  an  academ- 
ic experiment,  the  story  of  the  implemen- 
tation and  evolution  of  the  Plan  is  the  tale 
ot  the  many  people  who  made  it  happen.  It 
is  the  record  of  their  actions,  their  debates, 
their  triumphs,  their  defeats.  They  are  the 
people  who  put  so  much  of  their  hearts  and 
souls  into  making  the  Plan  work,  and  it  is 
because  of  their  devotion  and  endless  energy 
that  it  survives  today.  Like  the  people  Mil- 
dred Petrie  wrote  about  32  years  ago  in 
WPI's  centennial  history,  they  cared  enough 
about  the  Plan  to  be  hurt,  to  have  their 
careers  shattered  or  indefinitely  put  on  hold, 
and  to  put  their  ideals,  their  hopes  and  their 
dreams  ahead  of  their  own  gain.  They  are 
the  heroes  of  WTI's  recent  history. 

Nathaniel  Hawthorne  had  this  to  say 
about  heroes:  "The  greatest  obstacle  to 


being  heroic  is  the  doubt  whether  one  may 
not  be  going  to  prove  one's  self  a  fool;  the 
truest  heroism  is,  to  resist  the  doubt;  and  the 
profoundest  wisdom,  to  know  when  it  ought 
to  be  resisted,  and  when  to  be  obeyed."  Over 
the  past  30  years,  WPI  has  seen  many  exam- 
ples of  this  kind  of  heroism  and  of  this  kind 
of  wisdom.  There  has  been  no  shortage  of 
doubters — within  and  outside  the  commun- 
ity— during  those  decades,  and  always  an 
ample  supply  of  those  ready  to  question 
every  detail,  to  call  for  retreat  at  every 
chance,  and  to  look  for  opportunities  to 
uncover  fools.  It  has  taken  courage  to  stand 
against  this  tide  of  doubt,  and  keen  insight 
to  know  which  battles  were  worth  fighting. 

There  are  other  heroes  in  this  story. 
They  are  the  ones  who  have  been  driven  not 
by  the  desire  to  tear  down  the  Plan,  but  to 
keep  it  whole  and  to  zealously  guard  its 
integrity.  They,  too,  have  had  many  battles  to 
fight.  In  response  to  changes  in  society  and  in 
college  students,  in  reaction  to  pressure  from 
accreditors,  and  as  a  result  of  the  experience 
the  university  has  gained  from  living  with  this 
unique  program,  the  Plan  has  changed  many 
times  during  its  history.  Some  changes  have 
been  incidental;  some  have  profoundly 
altered  the  structure  and  outcomes  of  the 
Plan.  The  profound  changes  were  not  made 
lightly,  and  they  sometimes  left  in  their  wake 
bitterness  and  a  terrible  sense  of  loss. 

In  a  way,  everyone  who  has  lived  and 
breathed  the  WTI  Plan  these  many  years 
must  be  seen  as  a  hero,  for  the  Plan  demands 
so  much  more  of  faculty  members  and  stu- 
dents than  does  traditional  technological 
higher  education.  Though  the  program  has 


lost  some  of  the  sense  of  openness  it  possessed 
in  its  early  years,  students  must  still  take  on  a 
great  deal  of  the  responsibility  for  shaping 
their  own  curricula  and  for  getting  the  edu- 
cation they  need  and  desire.  Faculty  members 
must  devote  more  of  their  time  to  interacting 
with  students  than  do  instructors  at  many 
schools  and,  as  advisors  of  the  Interactive 
Qualifying  Project,  in  particular,  take  on  the 
burden  of  learning  about  issues  and  tech- 
niques far  beyond  their  own  fields  of  exper- 
tise. Too  often,  there  are  no  concrete  rewards 
for  the  time  and  energy  faculty  members 
devote  to  students  at  WTI,  but  there  are  other 
dividends  that  keep  them  doing  it. 

The  sheer  energy  faculty  devote  to  the 
Plan  is  one  of  the  program's  great  strengths, 
but  it  is  also  a  weakness.  The  most  innova- 
tive of  programs  become  mundane  in  time 
unless  continuallv  infused  with  new  ideas. 
But  truly  revolutionary  ideas  require  time 
for  reflection,  and  the  Plan  has  left  little 
extra  time  for  such  strategic  thinking.  Now, 
though,  as  the  end  of  the  millennium  and 
the  30th  anniversary  of  the  Plan's  passage 
approach,  WTI  believes  the  time  has  come 
to  make  the  time  to  critically  appraise  its 
undergraduate  program  and  to  decide 
whether  it  will  meet  the  needs  of  the  stu- 
dents of  tomorrow  as  well  as  it  serves  the 
students  of  today. 

Already,  a  large  group  of  faculty 
members,  administrators  and  students  have 
devoted  hundreds  of  hours  to  developing  a 
strategic  plan  to  guide  WTI  well  into  the  2 1st 
century.  They  have  looked  at  what  has  been 
learned,  what  has  been  gained,  and  what  has 
been  lost  in  the  last  few  decades  of  WTI's 
history,  and  have  extracted  from  these  lessons 
the  beginning  of  a  vision  for  the  decades 
ahead.  But  the  process  has  just  begun.  Much 
work  remains.  No  doubt,  there  are  battles 
yet  to  be  waged,  time,  funds  and  effort  far 
beyond  the  accounting  yet  to  be  expended, 
and  new  heroes  yet  to  be  discovered. 

If  history  is  any  guide,  WTI  will  emerge 
from  this  process  a  better  institution.  It  will 
sit,  perhaps  a  bit  more  solidly,  atop  Boynton 
Hill,  and  reach,  no  doubt  with  a  bit  more 
suretyr  and  grace,  toward  the  sky.  And  it  will 
do  so,  for  more  than  any  other  reason,  be- 
cause there  are  still  enough  people  who  care. 
— MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


WTI  Journal 


Professor  Frederick  Bianchi  is  at  the  leading  edge  of  a  controversial 

field  of  music  he  calls  the  Virtual  Orchestra.  While  replacing  live 

performers  with  computer-generated  music  has  raised  the 

ire  of  musicians  and  music  reviewers,  Bianchi  says  it 

will  provide  new  opportunities  for  technically 

trained  musicians  and  help  create  an  exciting 

operatic  art  form  in  the  United  States. 


BY  RAY  BERT  '93 

Let's  listen  to  just  a  single  flute... 

Seated  before  a  Macintosh  computer,  Frederick  Bianchi 
makes  several  quick  keystrokes  and  selections  with  the 
mouse.  From  the  speakers  in  his  office  comes  the  lively 
sound  of  a  flute  playing  a  familiar  melody. 

...now  we'll  add  another. ..then  a  clarinet 

A  fuller  sound  now  issues  from  the  speakers  as  the  cursor  on 
the  monitor  dances  across  electronic  "sheet  music." 

...now  a  bassoon... and  a  French  horn 

More  and  more  voices  join  the  texture  and  the  sound  level  rises 
like  the  slow  build  of  a  stadium  chant. 

:" ::-  ■"'.■'  ■'■  ■'  ■  "     .'    :   ".' '  ■    ::"  '■■-'■■'■:;  ■■■  ■■  '■■■■■ 

...finally,  here's  the  entire  orchestra. 

With  a  flourish,  he  makes  one  last  keystroke  and  the  full,  thumping, 
swelling,  joyous  majesty  of  Mozart's  Overture  to  Figaro  pours  forth. 

Bianchi  plays  conductor.  He  relays  a  tempo  to  the  computer  by  manually 
tapping  it  on  a  keyboard.  At  first  he  accelerates  the  music  to  cartoon-chase 
speed,  then  drops  it  into  a  staggering  torpor  before  returning  the  overture  to  its 
normal  stately  pace. 

Flashing  the  wide  smile  of  a  man  playing  with  a  tool  of  his  own  creation,  Bianchi  remarks, 
half  to  himself,  "There's  just  so  much  you  can  do  with  this." 

Mr.  Mozart,  welcome  to  the  world  of  the  Virtual  Orchestra. 


SPRING  1997 


wpi  journal 


Frederick  Bianchi  has  been  an  associate  professor 
of  music  at  WPI  since  1994.  He  received  his  doc- 
torate in  music  theory  and  composition  in  1985 
from  Ball  State  University,  where  he  also  minored 
in  computer  science.  From  1986  to  1994  he  was 
on  the  faculty  at  the  University  of  Cincinnati's 
Conservatory  of  Music.  He  taught  music  compo- 
sition and  orchestration  classes  along  with  courses 
in  electronic  music  and  music  technology.  As  a 
composer,  he  has  overseen  dozens  of  major  per- 
formances of  his  original  works  throughout  the 
United  States  and  Europe,  including  a  world 
premiere  at  Carnegie  Hall. 


il 


Bianchi  teaches  two 
popular  courses  on 
electronic  music  com- 
position in  WPI's  Com- 
puter Music  Laboratory. 


The  Virtual 

Orchestra  is  a 

live-performance 

computer  system 

with  extraordinary 

musical  and 

sonic  control. 


Bianchi  is  also  part  of  a  sound  design  team  he 
formed  in  1987  with  sound  designer  David  B. 
Smith.  While  they  continue  to  do  sound  design 
work  for  opera  and  theatrical  productions  through- 
out the  country,  their  most  intriguing  and  contro- 
versial projects  include  the  use  of  their  full-scale 
Virtual  Orchestra.  The  two  have  been  working 
together  to  develop  and  introduce  this  emerging 
technology  for  nearly  10  years,  and  have  estab- 
lished themselves  internationally  as  the  leading 
innovators  in  their  field. 

The  Virtual  Orchestra  is  a  live-performance 
computer  system  with  extraordinary  musical  and 
sonic  control.  Unlike  computer  music  systems  used 
in  production  studios  for  film,  television,  music 
recording  and  multimedia,  Bianchi  says  the  Virtual 
Orchestra  "must  perform  and  manipulate  complex 
musical  scores  and  interpret  a  continuously  chang- 
ing scenario  of  expression  in  real  time.  It  does  not 
use  traditional  music  keyboards  or  standard  musical 
interfaces.  All  of  the  musical  detail  is  meticulously 
programmed,  but  flexible  enough  to  be  trans- 
formed and  recombined  under  the  control  of  a 
conductor  during  performance.  Musical  tempo  and 
dynamic  fluctuations  are  examples  of  nuances  that 
change  from  performance  to  performance  and 
from  moment  to  moment.  The  ability  to  respond 
in  real  time  to  these  artistic  and  aesthetic  nuances  is 
what  makes  the  Virtual  Orchestra  so  versatile." 


Most  of  the  "raw  sounds"  for  the  Virtual 
Orchestra  come  from  digital  samples  recorded  by 
the  Prague  Symphony  Orchestra.  These  samples 
comprise  thousands  of  individual  notes  and  combi- 
nations of  instruments.  A  musical  score  is  carefully 
assembled  from  these  samples  so  that  each  note  and 
musical  phrase  blends  properly  to  give  the  effect 
of  a  live  musical  ensemble.  "There  are  so  many 
acoustical  nuances  that  need  to  be  accounted  for 
when  scoring  for  a  production,"  Bianchi  says. 
"For  instance,  a  violin  sounds  slightly  different 
depending  on  which  direction  the  bow  is  traveling, 
its  angle,  its  horizontal  position,  its  pressure,  and 
so  forth. 

"Our  Prague  recordings  are  essentially  a  collec- 
tion of 'dumb  sounds.'  They're  transformed  into 
intelligent  and  expressive  music  by  laboriously 
tweaking  each  note,  one  by  one.  In  some  scores 
there  are  hundreds  of  thousands  of  notes.  A  typical 
Virtual  Orchestra  sound  design  takes  two  years — 
some  designs  have  been  three  years  in  the  making. 
So  you  can  see,  we're  not  talking  about  performers 
simply  sitting  down  and  playing  keyboard  synthe- 
sizers— this  is  a  completely  different  proposition." 

As  he  describes  how  he  was  drawn  into  the 
world  of  virtual  orchestras,  Bianchi  alternates 
between  a  rational  explanation  and  a  more  roman- 
tic one.  "I've  always  worked  in  both  mediums — 
acoustic  and  electronic.  My  early  experiments 
began  in  the  late  '60s  with  monophonic  tape 
recorders,  record  players  and,  eventually,  early  ana- 
log synthesizers.  For  the  next  20  years  I  was  always 
at  the  edge  of  the  development  and  fortunate  to  be 
in  the  company  of  some  extraordinary  artists  and 
technicians.  So  one  day,  at  an  opera  rehearsal, 
when  a  major  logistical  problem  threatened  to  close 
the  show,  I  said  to  myself,  'I  think  I  have  the  tech- 
nology in  my  studio  to  solve  this  problem,'  and 
I  stepped  forward." 

One  dilemma  was — and  continues  to  be — that 
there  are  theatrical  and  operatic  companies  in  this 
country  that  can  no  longer  support  the  escalating 
cost  of  the  orchestra.  Overall,  opera  in  the  United 
States  has  fallen  on  hard  times.  With  cuts  in  fund- 
ing from  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Arts, 
there  have  been  fewer  grants  to  arts  organizations, 
which,  in  turn,  has  meant  leaner  operating  budgets. 
Opera  companies  have  had  to  pass  more  of  their 
costs  on  to  the  audience  in  the  form  of  pricey  tick- 
ets, making  it  even  harder  for  them  to  compete  for 
the  general  public's  entertainment  dollars  and  to 
grow  their  audience  base. 

"The  whole  industry  is  slowly  crumbling 
because  of  the  economic  reality  of  trying  to  use 
a  200-year-old  institution  (the  orchestra)  on  a 
modern-day  scale,"  Bianchi  says.  "It  won't  work. 
Not  only  is  it  becoming  economically  impossible, 
it  is  irresponsible  and  visionless  for  the  industry  to 
assume  that  a  generation  nurtured  on  film,  televi- 
sion, amplified  music  and  CD-quality  sound  would 
relate  to  an  art  that  lacks  anv  relevant  cultural  cues. 


SPRING  1997 


aaog. 


■MMM 


In  other  words,  they're  losing  their  audience,  or,  at 
hest,  boring  them." 

Virtual  orchestras  are  not  without  problems,  of 
course.  For  example,  real  orchestras  are,  for  the 
most  part,  reliable  and  don't  crash.  Says  Bianchi, 
"With  the  Virtual  Orchestra,  the  control  and  relia- 
bility of  the  music  lies  in  the  hands  or  a  tew  people. 
Am  technical  or  human  error  during  performance 
would  be  catastrophic."  1  le  points  out  that  as  a 
result,  the  people  who  implement  this  technology 
must  he  technically  and  musically  savvy.  Over  the 
past  10  years  he  says  he  has  witnessed  a  transforma- 
tion in  the  skill  and  preparation  of  young  sound 
designers  who  work  on  his  team  and  refers  to  them 
as  "the  new  breed  of  technical  artists." 

"Sound  designers  can  no  longer  assume  the 
traditional  roles  of  simply  running  mixing  boards 
and  hanging  speakers,"  he  says.  "They  must  under- 
stand all  aspects  of  the  system  as  well  as  the  theo- 
retical and  aesthetic  implications  of  the  music. 
That  is  so  important.  They  need  to  know,  for 
example,  why  the  third  act  begins  at  a  specific- 
tempo  or  why  the  composer  has  voiced  the  fifth 
of  the  chord  for  the  soprano.  I  spend  a  good  deal 
of  time  talking  to  my  sound  designers  about  music 
and  probing  their  minds.   This  is  all  prerequisite 
know  ledge  and  preparation,  because  it  is  inevitable 
that  at  some  point  during  a  performance,  and  at  a 
moment's  notice,  each  sound  designer  will  be 
called  upon  to  make  high-level  musical  decisions 
that  will  influence  the  production.  That's  a  lot  of 
responsibility.  These  new  sound  designers  must 
have  nerves  of  steel,  an  egocentric  confidence,  and 
be  rock  solid  night  after  night — no  mistakes." 

Perhaps  die  most  important  challenge  facing 
the  technology  is  creating  convincing  music,  says 
Bianchi,  w  ho  notes  that  computer-generated 
sounds  must  be  realistic,  not  only  in  a  musical 
sense,  but  in  a  physical  sense  as  well.  "When  you're 
in  the  balcony  at  the  opera,  it  you  close  your  eyes 
and  listen  to  the  music,  you  can  almost  feel  the  size 
of  the  hall.  The  music  has  a  presence  that's  hard  to 
define.  In  trying  to  achieve  that  effect,  we've 
learned  that  the  realism  improves  greatly  as  the 
sound  becomes  more  distributed,  and  diat  means 
more  speakers — 30,  40. ..maybe  100  speakers.  Each 
sound  source  needs  its  own  physical  space  before 
it  becomes  acoustically  integrated  into  the  entire 
soundscapc." 

As  Bianchi  has  found  out  firsthand,  however, 
there  are  those  in  the  opera  community  who  feel 
that  the  indefinable  "presence"  of  music  is  inextri- 
cably bound  to  the  presence  of  a  live  orchestra. 
( )\ercoming  this  attitude  is  as  big  a  challenge  as 
any  technological  quandary  relating  to  the  system. 
In  addition,  the  absence  of  live  players  has  made 
many  in  the  opera  community  suspicious  or  angry 
at  the  perceived  audacity  of  replacing  the  authentic 
with  the  synthetic. 

In  the  winter  of  1995-96,  the  Kentucky  Opera 
Company  was  hoping  to  mount  a  production  of 


Hansel  and  Gretel  tor  the  Christmas  season.  This 
huge  and  complex  post-Wagnerian  score  called  tor 
100  musicians — well  beyond  the  physical  and 
financial  reach  of  the  Kentucky  Opera  Orchestra, 
which  had  already  contracted  to  play  the  Nutcracker 
ballet.  ( lasting  about  for  a  way  to  enable  the  show 
to  go  on,  the  Kentucky  ( )pera  turned  to  the  Virtual 
( )rchestra  to  provide  the  musical  score.  Though 
the  Virtual  Orchestra  had  several  productions  to 
its  credit,  this  would  be  the  world's  first  completely 
digitized  opera  by  an  important  professional  opera 
company.  That  fact  alone  guaranteed  that  the  pro- 
duction would  come  under  intense  scrutiny  by  the 
international  opera  community.  For  its  trouble,  the 
Kentucky  ( )pera  was  picketed  by  incensed  musi- 
cians and  union  members  and  witnessed  lines  of 
protesters  distributing  leaflets  to  patrons  decrying 
the  "diminished  production." 

The  opera  received  a  critical  drubbing  by  some 
(though  not  all)  opera  publications.  One  of  diose 
dressings-down  was  published  by  Opera  News. 
It  read,  in  part:  "jVlusic  is  an  art  of  communication. 
Even  if  the  technology  improves,  and  it  surely  will, 
an  essential  ingredient  is  missing;:  the  vibrant  inter- 


"The  whole 
industry  is  slowly 
crumbling  because 
of  the  economic 
reality  of  trying  to 
use  a  200-year-old 
institution  (the 
orchestra)  on  a 
modern-day  scale. 
It  won  Y  work. " 


play  among  human  beings,  an  experience  that  can- 
not be  duplicated  by  a  machine."  At  one  point,  the 
reviewer  went  as  far  as  to  accuse  Bianchi  of  con- 
tributing to  "...the  dehumanization  of  society." 

On  the  other  hand,  many  reviewers  acknowl- 
edged the  historical  significance  of  the  event. 
In  defense  of  the  technology,  Patrick  Smith,  editor 
of  Opera  News,  stated:  "...there  were  many  who  crit- 
icized the  invention  of  die  automobile  and  shouted 
'get  a  horse'  at  the  sight  of  a  broken-down  vehicle 
on  the  side  of  the  road. ...however,  there  are  no 
horses  on  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike!" 

The  criticism  is  not  lost  on  Bianchi,  whose 
divided  feelings  toward  his  own  technology  reflect 
the  schism  of  his  two  passions.  As  a  music  technol- 
ogist, he  is  convinced  that  the  Virtual  Orchestra  is 

(Continued  on  page  9) 


Bianchi  conducts  the 
Virtual  Orchestra  during 
a  performance  of 
Hansel  and  Gretel  by 
the  Kentucky  Opera 
Company. 


WPI  Journal 


COROLLARY 


In  Search  of  a  Venue 


While  Frederick  Bianchi's  ground- 
breaking work  with  the  Virtual 
Orchestra  is  gaining  national  and 
international  attention,  it  is  not  the  only 
such  interdisciplinary  work  under  way  at 
WPI.  William  Michalson  and  Richard 
Campbell,  faculty  members  in  the  Electrical 
and  Computer  Engineering  Department, 
are  also  devoting  time  to  research  and  stu- 
dent project  work  that  marries  the  techno- 
logical with  the  musical. 

Bianchi  is  the  newcomer  in  this  group, 
having  joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1994. 
Michalson  arrived  at  WPI  in  1990;  Campbell 
has  served  as  an  adjunct  professor  since  the 
early  1980s  (see  "Good  Vibrations,"  WPI 
Journal,  Spring  1995).  But  it  was  Bianchi's 


arrival  that  seemed  to  nudge  the  music  tech- 
nology group  toward  its  current  critical  mass. 

"This  type  of  work,  not  just  VO,  but 
music  and  acoustics  and  such,  is  really  start- 
ing to  come  together  at  WPI,"  Bianchi  says. 
"Both  Dick  and  Bill  are  doing  projects  in 
similar  veins  to  what  I  do,  and  the  level  of 
student  interest  has  been  quite  amazing." 
Michalson  echoes  Bianchi's  assessment: 
"We're  an  eclectic  group — quite  versatile 
and  capable.  And  we're  all  working  in  areas 
that  are  motivational  and  interesting  for 
many  WPI  students." 

But  whether  the  projects  involve  com- 
puter music  with  Bianchi,  acoustics  with 
Campbell,  improvements  to  music  electron- 
ics hardware  with  Michalson,  or  some  hybrid 
of  all  of  these,  all  three  faculty  members 
agree  that  key  to  taking  this  type  of  work 
further  at  WPI  is  the  establishment  of  a  dedi- 
cated laboratory  that  can  accommodate  the 
technology  required  for  interdisciplinary 
projects  in  these  fields,  and  serve  as  a  nerve 
center  for  activity  in  music  technology. 

Bianchi,  Campbell  and  Michalson  say 
they  are  already  seeking  out  space  and  fund- 
ing for  the  lab.  They  have  received  a  grant 
from  Eastern  Acoustic  Works,  a  manufac- 
turer of  professional  sound  systems,  and  a 
number  of  other  companies  (including  Korg, 
a  maker  of  electronic  musical  instruments) 
have  expressed  an  interest  in  the  project. 

Michalson  says  he  has  a  clear  view  of  the 
purpose  of  the  proposed  lab:  "This  would 
not  be  a  practice  room,  nor  a  gradu- 
ate research  center,  but  a  lab- 
oratory for  undergraduate 
project  work."  Bianchi 
says  the  lab  would 
also  be  a  way  to 
enhance  the  positive 
qualities  of  WPI's 
nascent  music 
technology  pro- 
gram. One  of 
those  qualities  is 
that  it  isn't  a  for- 
mal program,  as 
such. 


"We're  not  looking  to  create  a  new  major," 
he  stresses,  "but  a  focal  point  to  bring  all  of 
the  possibilities  of  music  technology  to 
light,  as  well  as  enhance  the  quality  of  the 
individual  projects  going  on." 

The  projects,  in  the  form  of  Sufficien- 
cies, Interactive  Qualifying  Projects  and 
Major  Qualifying  Projects,  have  thus  far 
encompassed  everything  from  sound  design 
and  virtual  orchestration,  to  the  develop- 
ment of  techniques  for  measuring  loud- 
speaker characteristics,  to  the  automated 
control  of  sound  and  lights  for  theatrical 
productions.  An  MQP  currently  being  com- 
pleted is  developing  a  method  for  "tracking" 
a  ballet  dancer — allowing  the  dancer's 
movements  to  influence  the  music  during 
a  performance.  This  extremely  complex 
problem  would  draw  heavily  on  Bianchi's 
orchestration  work  and  Michalson's  spe- 
cialty of  digital  tracking  and  positioning. 

Project  topics  like  these  point  out  just 
how  significantly  sound  technology  research 
is  impacting  many  industries  today,  Camp- 
bell says.  "We  have  experienced  major 
breakthroughs  in  research  in  the  past  few 
years.  This  is  partly  due  to  the  work  of 
researchers  around  the  world  who  collabo- 
rate in  assembling  pieces  of  the  puzzle.  For 
example,  high-speed  computers  and  digital 
signal  processing  have  brought  us  to  the 
point  where  it  is  possible  to  hear  a  convinc- 
ing simulation  of  the  acoustic  environment 
of  an  auditorium  before  it  is  built.  The 
direction  in  which  the  industry  is  heading  is 
quite  exciting  and  full  of  opportunity." 

These  opportunities  may  help  explain 
an  explosion  of  student  interest  in  com- 
puter music  (Bianchi's  two  computer  music 
courses  are  oversubscribed  every  time  they 
are  offered).  This  has  coincided  with  a 
boom  in  home  recording  studios  and  asso- 
ciated technology.  As  a  result,  Michalson 
says,  career  opportunities  for  those  who 
understand  music  and  musical  technology 
are  excellent.  "Equipment  manufacturers 
can't  make  product  fast  enough  to  keep  up 
with  demand,"  he  says.  "With  all  this 
growth,  there  are  any  number  of  companies 
that  are  now  looking  for  engineers  with  a 
musical  background.  There's  a  definite 
need  out  there." 

— RB 


A  new  music  technology  laboratory  would  shine  the 
spotlight  on  the  diverse  work  being  done  in  this  field 
by  students  and  faculty  members  at  WPI,  Bianchi  says. 


SPRING  1997 


IBHMMIBMMHB 


Silicon  Symphony 

(Continued  from  page  7) 

both  necessary  and  effective,  so  he  strives  to 
improve  constantly,  to  bolster  the  quality  of  the 
performances  and  to  quiet  the  naysayers  who  insist 
it  can't  be  done.  And  yet,  as  a  composer  and  opera- 
goer,  he  can't  help  but  sympathize  with  those  who 
say  it  shouldn't  be  done. 

"There  is  quite  a  conflict  that  I  must  continu- 
ously resolve  concerning  the  implications  of  this 
work,  and  I  have  given  the  philosophical  problem 
more  time  and  thought  than  any  other  aspect 
related  to  the  Virtual  Orchestra,"  he  says. 

Bianchi  is  married  tojanna  Hymes-Bianchi, 
the  resident  conductor  of  the  Charlotte  Symphony 
in  North  Carolina.  In  contrast  to  his  work,  she  is 
involved  with  live  orchestras,  the  ballet  and  opera 
on  a  daily  basis.  Says  Frederick  Bianchi,  "So  the 
Virtual  Orchestra  should  not  be  perceived  as  the 
work  of  some  whacked-out  technologist  living  in 
isolation  from  the  real  world.  I  cannot  honestly, 
and  with  integrity,  make  a  single  move  without 
considering  the  implications." 

Ask  him  point  blank  if  he  would  prefer  to  expe- 
rience an  opera  performance  with  a  live  orchestra 
or  one  with  a  virtual  orchestra,  and  Bianchi  says, 
"No  question.  I  would  prefer  a  live  orchestra.  And 
yes,  there  are  some  elements  of  the  theatrical  expe- 
rience that  cannot  be  reproduced  by  a  Virtual 
Orchestra.  But  the  reality  of  the  situation  suggests 
that  if  we  intend  to  move  forward  we  must  be  will- 
ing to  accept  a  change.  And  I  believe  the  industry  is 
in  the  process  of  changing." 

The  conflict  and  controversy  will  not  disappear 
anytime  soon.  Traditional  opera  cannot  reinvent 
itself,  Bianchi  says.  It  will  continue  to  thrive  at  the 
major  centers  for  opera — the  Metropolitan  Opera 
in  New  York,  the  San  Francisco  Opera,  and  opera 
houses  in  major  cities  like  Chicago  and  Houston. 
But  smaller  companies  will,  more  and  more,  turn 
to  contemporary  opera  productions  that  will  help 
them  attract  a  new  and  younger  audience.  For 
Bianchi,  this  emphasis  on  contemporary  opera  pro- 
duction would  present  the  best  possible  scenario, 
allowing  him  to  change  his  focus  from  breathing  a 
few  last  breaths  into  an  ailing  institution  to  helping 
establish  an  operatic  tradition  for  a  new  generation. 

"Realizing  scores  like  Hansel  and  Gretel  has 
been  great,"  he  says.  "It  helped  us  introduce  and 
refine  the  technology,  but  it  doesn't  explore  the 
potential  of  the  Virtual  Orchestra.  If  you  let  the 
Virtual  Orchestra  function  more  idiomatically  and 
let  it  do  what  it  does  best,  then  there  is  almost  no 
limit  to  the  sonic  worlds  that  can  be  created." 

One  such  idiomatic  use  of  the  Virtual  Orches- 
tra was  Bianchi's  production  of  The  Wizard  of  Oz. 
Productions  that  are  less  "highbrow"  or  don't  carry 
the  burden  of  tradition  are  ideal  settings  for  the 
technology,  he  says.  They  are  also  the  most  fun,  as 
evidenced  by  the  glee  in  Bianchi's  eyes  as  he 


describes  how  the  Tin  Man's  music  was  produced 
by  transforming  raw  metallic  noises  into  a  beautiful 
musical  accompaniment. 

"The  Virtual  Orchestra  score  to  Oz  was  under 
development  for  over  three  years,  and  \\  hen  you 
consider  the  amount  of  automation  and  special 
effects  synchronization,  the  number  of  surround- 
sound  speakers,  the  degree  of  interactive  control, 
and  the  overwhelming  technical  muscle  that  was 
involved,  it  would  certainly  rate  as  one  of  the  most 
sophisticated  sound  designs  in  musical  theater  to 
date.  And  that  would  include  anything  done  on 
Broadway  or  at  Disney." 

"I  would  hope,"  he  says,  "that  in  a  few  years  I 
won't  even  be  involved  in  replacing  the  orchestra, 
but  that  a  whole  new  aesthetic  will  have  evolved." 
Until  then,  he  says  it  will  be  necessary  for  the  tech- 
nology to  serve  primarily  as  a  stand-in  for  live 
orchestras.  So  he  continues  to  improve  and  refine 
the  Virtual  Orchestra,  to  make  it  as  close  to  the 
experience  of  a  live  performance  as  possible.  In 
fact,  even  as  he  acknowledges  the  shortcomings  of 
the  technology,  he  maintains  that  the  lines  between 


"Every  four 
months  there's  a 
quantum  leap  in 
this  technology. 
What  we're  doing 
now  is  miles  beyond 
what  we  were 
doing  last  year. " 


authentic  and  synthetic  music  are  blurring  more 
and  more  all  the  time. 

"Every  four  months  there's  a  quantum  leap  in 
this  technology,"  he  says  with  enthusiasm.  "What 
we're  doing  now  is  miles  beyond  what  we  were 
doing  last  year." 

Bianchi  says  he  foresees  a  certain  future  for  the 
Virtual  Orchestra.  "If  opera  does  reinvent  itself, 
this  technology  will  be  right  there  with  it.  Tradi- 
tional opera  will  certainly  continue  and  will  survive 
as  long  as  there  is  an  audience  to  support  it,"  he 
says.  "But  I  would  prefer  to  be  a  part  of  the  new 
opera  and  to  have  put  all  my  eggs  in  the  basket  that 
says  opera  will  change.  I  want  to  take  the  risk  of 
being  on  the  edge  of  that  change." 

Bert  is  a  turbine  blade  engineer  at  I  lozvmet 
Refurbishment  hie. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Aught 

The  arrival  last  fall  of  the  Class  of  2000,  the  last 
class  to  receive  their  diplomas  in  the  20th  century, 
provided  an  opportunity  to  think  about  the  brave 
new  world  that  lies  ahead  in  the  new  millennium. 
But  it  is  also  a  good  excuse  to  look  back  at  just 
how  much  things  have  changed  at  wpi  in  the  past 

100  YEARS. 


# 


BY  JOE  PARKER  '93 

When  the  members  of  the  Class  of '00 
entered  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
in  the  fall  of  '96  they  found  a  school  in  the  midst  of 
a  dramatic  transformation.  With  the  economy  in  a 
downturn,  a  drop  in  overall  enrollment,  and  a 
deficit  in  the  Institute's  treasury,  it  had  become 
obvious  to  the  administration  and  the  trustees  that 
tough  decisions  and  sweeping  changes  would  have 
to  be  made. 

The  president,  in  office  less  than  a  year,  acted 
swiftly.  In  early  '96,  he  implemented  new  programs 
— some  extremely  unpopular  with  the  faculty — that 
changed  the  face  of  the  school.  Nearly  half  of  the 
instructors  didn't  wait  around  to  see  how  they 
would  work  out.  Among  those  who  left  WPI  in  '96 
were  two  men  who  had  made  an  indelible  impres- 
sion upon  the  school. 

The  year  was  1896  and  the  president  making 
the  tough  choices  was  Thomas  C.  Mendenhall,  a 
highly  respected  educator  who  had  already  served 
as  president  of  Rose  Polytechnic  Institute  (where, 
by  coincidence,  he'd  succeeded  WPI's  first  presi- 
dent, Charles  O.  Thompson)  and  chief  of  the  U.S. 
Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey.  Mendenhall  stirred 


SPRING  1997 


I 


-— "~— — - 


Aught 


things  up  early  in  his  term  by  questioning  the  role 
that  the  lucrative  commercial  enterprise  main- 
tained in  the  Washburn  Shops  played  in  the  Insti- 
tute's academic  program. 

The  Shops  had  become  an  integral  element  in 
the  philosophy  ot  theory  and  practice  that  was  at 
the  core  of  WPI's  academic  program.  Students  put 
their  classroom  learning  to  work  there  making 
products  for  sale  on  the  open  market.  But  it  was  the 
business  of  the  Shops  that  troubled  Mendenhall: 
he  worried  that  it  was  distracting  the  school  from 
its  primary  mission  of  education.  Furthermore,  he 
was  concerned  that  WPI  had  become,  in  essence, 
two  distinct  institutions:  one,  a  college,  and  the 
other,  a  commercial  manufacturing  enterprise. 

That  January,  he  and  the  Board  of  Trustees 
made  a  decision  that  would  set  off  a  tremendous 
furor  in  the  ranks  of  the  faculty.  They  decided  to 
sell  off  the  Washburn  Shops'  hydraulic  elevator 
business.  The  decision  was  not  made  lighdy.  The 
products  of  the  Washburn  Shops  were  well-known 
— especially  the  hydraulic  elevators,  which  had 
been  installed  in  every  major  city  in  the  United 
States.  And  the  sale  of  those  products  had  earned 
the  Institute  nearly  $1  million,  not  an  insignificant 
amount  of  money  at  a  time  when  WPI's  budget 
was  stretched  thin. 

The  decision  led  to  the  resignations  of  Milton 
Higgins,  the  first  superintendent  of  the  Washburn 
Shops,  and  George  Alden,  his  good  friend  and  the 
Institute's  first  professor  of  mechanical  engineer- 
ing. Alden  and  Higgins  purchased  the  elevator 
business  and  ran  it  for  many  years.  They  were  also 
among  the  partners  in  the  new  Norton  Emery 
Wheel  Company,  now  Norton  Company. 

The  Shops  would  continue  to  make  and  sell 
products  commercially  off  and  on  until  the  1950s, 


-.-.  •  - 


{m^M\ 


WPI  JOURNAL 


,i 


hut  Mendenhall  had  won  an  important  victc 
made  an  equally  important  statement  ahoutfWPFs 
educational  philosophy.  In  the  process,  he  brought 
down  the  curfein  on  an  era  in  the  Institute's  history 
lust  as  the  school — and  the  world — stood  attthe 
jrink  of  a  new  century. 

/ 

The  School  of  00 

In  the  late  1890s,  WTI  was  not  yet  three  decades 
old.  It  was,  nevertheless,  an  institution  in  transi- 
tion. As  an  Alumni  Association  pamphlet  from 
1895  bluntly  stated,  "The  present  must  be  regard- 
ed as  a  critical  period  in  the  history  of  the  Insti- 
tute." The  decision  to  sell  off  the  elevator  business 
marked  the  beginning  of  a  period  of  upheaval. 
Despite  the  Institute's  many  successes — both 
academic  and  commercial — there  were  those  who 
believed  that  WTI  was  on  the  verge  of  collapse. 
Indeed,  at  the  same  time  that  Andrew  Carnegie 
was  looking  at  WPI  as  a  model  for  the  Carnegie 
Institute  of  Technology,  enrollment  was  down  22 
percent  and  the  treasury  was  deep  in  debt.  With 
so  many  faculty  resignations,  every  academic 
department  was  in  a  state  of  disarray. 

This  was  the  state  of  the  Institute  as  the  Class 
of  1900  arrived  on  campus  in  the  fall  of  1896.  The 
school  was  changing  in  other  ways,  as  well.  A  four- 
year  course  of  study  had  become  standard,  replac- 
ing the  three-and-a-half-year  course  under  which 
students  had  studied  since  classes  began  in  1868. 


the  END. 


ill 


The  rather  somber  looking  members  of  the  Class  of  1900.  They  may  have  been  thinking  about  their  heavy  aca- 
demic workload,  which  the  annual  catalog  suggested  should  consume  "all  the  time  of  every  student"  (above). 


12 


SPRING  1997 


rWHiiiHMiimi 


mm 


The  course  load  for  the  freshman  year  had  heen 
made  uniform  and  new  admissions  requirements 
had  been  created.  The  ranks  of  die  administration 
had  been  bolstered  by  the  addition  of  a  full-time 
registrar  and  a  librarian. 

One  hundred  years  later,  change  is  again  in  the 
air.  Unlike  the  WPT  of  1 897,  the  university  of 
today  is  on  a  firm  fiscal  footing,  though  the  contin- 
ually rising  cost  of  financial  aid  has  made  balancing 
the  budget  a  yearly  struggle.  While  competition  for 
undergraduates  is,  perhaps,  more  fierce  than  it  has 
ever  been,  die  university  has  maintained  a  strong 
competitive  position  among  its  peer  institutions, 
due  largely  to  the  appeal  of  the  innovative  WPI 
Plan.  In  fact,  enrollment  consistently  meets  or 
exceeds  the  university's  targets,  WPI  is  blessed 
with  a  highly  skilled  faculty,  and  its  project-based 
education  is  beginning  to  be  seen  as  a  model  tor 
change  in  technological  higher  education  at  the 
national  level. 

The  Academics  of  00 

In  1865,  as  the  Board  of  Trustees  met  to  plan  a 
course  of  study  for  the  Institute,  it  declared  that  of 
all  the  subjects  the  school  should  offer,  "the  first 
in  importance  is  mechanical  engineering."  By  the 
end  of  the  1 9th  century,  mechanical  engineering 
still  reigned  supreme  in  the  school's  curriculum, 
but  some  serious  challengers  were  waiting  in  the 
wings.  For  example,  with  the  growth  of  cities  and 
the  advent  of  major  public  works  projects,  civil 
engineering  was  emerging  as  an  important  profes- 
sional field  and  the  Institute  responded  by 
expanding  its  course  offerings  in  that  discipline. 

But  it  was  electrical  engineering  that  was  set 
to  take  the  school — and  the  country — by  storm. 
Thomas  Edison  had  developed  the  first  incandes- 
cent light  bulb  more  than  1 5  years  earlier  and  the 
electrification  of  the  modern  world  had  begun  in 
earnest.  Clearly,  WTI  needed  to  prepare  young 
engineers  to  help  shape  the  Electric  Age.  Even  so, 
the  birth  of  the  Electrical  Engineering  Department 
did  not  come  about  without  resistance,  primarily 
from  the  mechanical  engineers  (see  "An  Electric 
Century,"  WPI  Journal,  Spring  1996). 

As  it  did  at  many  other  schools,  electrical 
engineering  at  WTI  began  as  a  program  within  the 
Physics  Department.  The  new  department  was  for- 
mally established  in  1896,  and  was  soon  offering  1 1 
courses.  The  number  of  electrical  engineering 
majors  that  first  year  equaled  the  number  of  stu- 
dents choosing  mechanical  engineering,  a  clear 
indication  of  the  interest  students  were  showing  in 
this  exciting  new  field  of  technology. 

A  century  later,  electricity  is  firmly  entrenched 
in  every  aspect  of  our  world.  Today,  when  students 
gaze  into  the  future,  the  technology  that  captures 
their  imaginations  is  the  computer.  Computers 
already  dominate  the  worlds  of  science,  technology, 
business  and  industry,  and  their  potential  to  change 


our  lives  seems  boundless.  Computer-aided 
instruction,  electronic  mail,  the  World  Wide  W^eb 
and  telecommunications  technology  are  also  begin 
ning  to  change  the  way  education  is  delivered  at 
colleges  and  universities,  including  WPI. 

"I  think  everything  is  going  to  become  more 
computer-based,"  says  Jonathan  Tripp,  a  native  of 
The  Netherlands  and  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
2000,  who  says  he  has 
already  encountered  com- 
puter applications  in  his 
classes — even  those  in 
organic  chemistry.  "The 
other  majors  at  WTI  will 
hold  their  own,  but  with 
computer  engineers  and 
scientists,  the  numbers 
are  going  to  explode." 

In  fact,  interest  in 
computer  science  and 
electrical  and  computer 
engineering  has  recently 
started  to  grow.  Accord- 
ing to  Executive  Director 
of  Admissions  Robert 
Voss,  computer  science 
and  electrical  and  com- 
puter engineering  are  two 
of  the  top  three  majors 
for  the  Class  of  2000  and 
«ue  die  top  two  choices 
among  applicants  for  the 
Class  of  2001.  Evenfor 

students  who  choose  other  majors,  computer  litera- 
cy is  becoming  a  prerequisite  for  success  in  today's 
high-tech  world. 

-^Rin  Garvin,  director  of  academic  advising, 
says  WTI  students  today  seem  to  appreciate  the 
importance  of  understanding  computers.  "To  sa\ 
you  don't  use  a  computer  or  don't  know  how  to 
use  a  computer  seems  unacceptable  among  today's 
undergraduates,"  she  says.  "As  soon  as  they  enroll, 
they  want  their  computer  account,  they  want  to  be 
able  to  use  the  system — and  they  want  their  e-mail!" 

The  WTI  of  a  century  ago  lived  up  to  its 
"Polytechnic"  middle  name,  offering  majors  in  pri- 
marily technical  disciplines.  The  general  scientific 
major,  available  to  students  interested  in  becoming 
educators,  was  about  as  far  from  the  standard  tech- 
nical curriculum  as  WTI  ventured  then.  Today, 
engineering  remains  the  major  of  choice  for  the 
majority  of  undergraduates,  but  the  sciences, 
management  and  the  liberal  arts — including  the 
humanities  and  such  interdisciplinary  fields  as  tech- 
nical and  professional  communications  and  theater 
and  technology — have  seen  their  base  of  majors 
rise  steadily  over  the  past  decade.  In  fact,  nearly 
40  percent  of  students  are  now  pursuing  nonengi- 
neering  majors. 

The  Biology  and  Biotechnology  Department 
has  seen  one  of  the  most  dramatic  rises  in  popular- 


"I've  had  a  lot  of 
really  good  professors. 
They  seem  to  be  just 
as  eager  to  teach  as  I 
am  to  learn.  If  you 
want  to  learn,  then 
yon  7/  do  a  lot  better 
than  if  yon  're  here 
just  to  take  a  class. " 
-  Donna 
Lamaestra  '00 


WTI  JOURNAL 


13 


The  experience  of 

being  part  of  the 

Class  of  2000  is 

"really  not  that 

much  different  than 

it  is  for  any  other 

class.  The  difference 

is  more  symbolic 

than  real. " 

-Jason  Sardell  '00 


ity  of  any  department  at  WPI.  Enrollment  in  the 
department  has  increased  more  than  fivefold  since 
the  early  1970s,  when  the  program  was  founded  as 
the  Department  of  Life  Sciences.  The  growth  in 
demand  for  undergraduate  courses  and  labs  was 
one  of  the  motivations  for  a  recent  $2  million  reno- 
vation (supported  by  a  $1  million  grant  from  the 
National  Science  Foundation)  of  research  labs  and 
supporting  spaces  in  Salisbury  Laboratories,  the 
department's  home. 

Biology  and  Biotechnology  has  proven  to  be 
especially  attractive  to  female  students;  in  fact, 
some  3 1  percent  of  all  women  undergraduates  are 
majoring  in  biology,  biotechnology  or  biochem- 
istry (a  major  within  the  newly  renamed  Chemistry 
and  Biochemistry  Department).  Notes  Donna 
Lamaestra  '00,  a  biotechnology  major  from  Yuma, 
Az.,  "Classically,  women  aren't  drawn  to  pure  engi- 
neering. I  know  that  when  I  was  looking  at  col- 
leges, I'd  look  at  all  the  brochures  they'd  send  me 

and  right  away  I'd  get  a 
clear  idea  of  whether  I'd 
'throw  it  in,  or  throw  it 
out.'  I  got  WPI's,  and  on 
the  last  page  there  was  a 
blurb  about  the  medical 
professions  scholars  pro- 
gram. That's  the  reason  I 
applied  to  WPI." 

The  Students 
of  00 

Academics  are  not  the 
only  aspect  of  WPI  that 
has  changed  dramatically 
over  the  past  century. 
When  the  Class  of  1900 
matriculated,  it  consisted 
of  83  men,  of  whom  43 
would  still  be  on  hand  for 
graduation.  The  majority 
of  the  class  came  from 
Worcester  County,  while 
11  came  from  otheilparts 
I  jpof  Massachusetts,  lifrom 
|  the  other  New  England 
States,  and  10  from  outside  New  England.  F'our 
members Jaf  the  Class  of  1900  came  from  overseas, 
a  numbe#that  was  then  considered  extraordii 

LilsJthe  Class  of  190B,  the  Class  of  200JS 
rooted  firmly  in  New  England.  Close  to 
quarters  of  its  690  members  hail  from  the  six-state 
region  (43  percent  are  from  Massachusetts),  but  the 
resemblance  between  the  two  classes  ends  there. 
The  class  that  arrived  at  WPI  in  the  fall  of  1996 
was  drawn  from  every  region  of  the  United  States, 
and  from  a  broad  cross  section  of  the  globe.  In  all, 
31  states  and  23  other  countries  are  represented. 
And,  of  course,  WPI  is  no  longer  an  all-male 
institution.  WPI's  first  president,  Charles  O. 


Thompson,  left  the  door  open  to  enrolling  women 
as  soon  as  the  school  had  the  resources  to  educate 
"all  competent  women  who  apply."  But  in  fact, 
WPI  would  remain  a  single-sex  school  for  a  full 
century,  enrolling  its  first  two  women  undergradu- 
ates in  1968.  Since  then,  the  number  of  women  on 
campus  has  increased  steadily.  This  year,  women 
make  up  2 1  percent  of  the  undergraduate  student 
body;  22  percent  of  the  members  of  the  Class  of 
2000  are  women. 

A  review  of  the  yearbook  for  the  Class  of  1900 
suggests  that  few  if  any  of  its  members  were  Black, 
Hispanic  or  Native  American.  In  fact,  it  has  been 
only  within  the  last  decade  or  so  that  WPI  has  seen 
its  enrollment  of  students  from  underrepresented 
minorities  begin  to  grow.  A  variety  of  recruiting 
and  retention  programs,  some  supported  by  major 
corporations  like  United  Technologies,  General 
Electric,  GTE,  Lockheed-Martin  and  Xerox,  have 
enabled  the  university  to  increase  minority  enroll- 
ment substantially.  Today,  Black,  Hispanic  and 
Native  American  students  make  up  5  percent  of  all 
undergraduates  and  6  percent  of  the  Class  of  2000. 

The  Campus  of  00 

As  the  student  body  grew  up,  the  campus — and  the 
city  it  calls  home — grew  out.  In  1896  WPI  was  a 
small  cluster  of  four  academic  buildings  on  the  out- 
skirts of  a  small  city.  Travel  was  difficult,  which 
might  account  for  the  small  number  of  students 
from  faraway  places.  Getting  around  was  so  arduous, 
in  fact,  that  the  1896  annual  catalog  of  WPI  warned 
against  frequent  travel,  even  for  local  students: 
If  [the  student's]  home  is  far  distant  from  the  Insti- 
tute, whether  in  Worcester  or  in  any  of  the  adjoin- 
ing towns,  it  would  greatly  advance  his  interest  to 
take  a  study  room  near  at  hand  for  five  days  in  the 
week,  for  it  is  difficult  to  estimate  the  evil  effect  of 
the  habit  of  daily  riding  to  and  from  in  the  cars 
upon  a  student's  enthusiasm. 
WPI  has  since  expanded  to  cover  the  better 
part  of  four  city  blocks  in  the  heart  of  what  is  now 
New  England's  second  largest  city.  Travel  has 
becoirjjroeasy,  many  students  hop  on  planes  (not 
yet  indented  in  1896)  to  travel  home  during  school 
holidjiys  or  to  head  off  to  project  centers  at  the  far 
cornfc  of  the  globe.  In  fadl  jet  travel,  e-mail  and 
videoconferencing  have  rn^de  the  notion  of  any 
placelbeing  "far  distant  fnJb  the  Institute"  seem 
out-o^date. 

During  the  20th  century,  the  land  to  the  west 
of  West  Street  becamjpfie  site  of  several  residence 
halls,  two  gyms  and  four  academic  buildings,  and 
the  WPI  campus  became,  in  a  sense,  two  campuses. 
By  the  time  the  Class  of  2000  arrived,  the  universi- 
ty had,  at  last,  joined  its  east  and  west  halves  into  an 
elegant  whole.  The  Class  of  2000,  in  fact,  is  the 
first  that  will  never  have  to  get  used  to  looking  both 
ways  before  crossing  West  Street. 

After  decades  of  negotiations  with  the  city,  the 
university  finally  received  the  OK  to  close  the 


14 


SPRING  1997 


mm 


street  to  traffic  in  1995.  It  moved  quickly  to  replace 
the  asphalt  of  the  street  with  the  brick  and  granite 
of  a  landscaped  pedestrian  mall,  complete  with  a 
fountain.  I  lie  project  has  benefits  in  addition  to 
enhancing  student  saRy,  Garvin  says.  "It  makes 
students  feel  that  they  are  part  of  a  tradition  ihat 
goes  beyond  their  own  four  years  here."       M 

"It's  a  real  improvement,"  Tripp  says,^The 
campus  has  a  great  feeling  now.  \  \  ha  they've 
done  with  West  Street  is  rcallv  mce — you  feel  that 
that  block  belongs  to  you.  In  die  spring,  w  hen 
the  grass  is  out  and  the  rfe^Krre  in  bloom,  it  will 
be  beautiful." 

The  Economics  "fjjfl  _         * 

In  the  100  years  since  the  Class  of  1900  enrolled, 
the  cost  of  attending  WPI  has  increased — more 
than  a  hundredfold.  In  1896,  full  tuition — includ- 
ing lab  fees — was  $160.  For  the  current  academic 
year,  the  university  is  charging  $17,860.  Of 
course,  the  past  century  has  seen  a  substantial 
increase  in  the  cost  of  most  commodities,  and 
WPI's  tuition  remains  at  about  the  mid-point  of 
the  prices  charged  by  its  competitors. 

The  financial  expectations  of  today's  students 
also  differ  markedly  from  those  of  their  counter- 
parts of  100  years  ago.  An  engineering  education  in 
1900  virtually  guaranteed  wealth.  Today,  a  degree 
from  WPI  offers  a  good  prospect  of  a  comfortable 
standard  of  living.  But  in  today's  economy,  when 
downsizing,  acquisitions  and  mergers,  and  global 
competition  have  made  job  security  and  lifetime 
employment  things  of  the  past,  financial  stability 
seems  to  be  the  most  important  motivation  for 
undergraduates,  Garvin  says.  "I  don't  think  our 
students  are  necessarily  looking  to  be  wealthy. 
They're  hoping  to  be  secure  and  comfortable." 

She  adds  that  a  small  minority  of  students 
come  to  WPI  motivated  primarily  by  the  promise 
of  the  large  starting  salaries  people  in  technical 
professions  can  make.  "When  you  graduate  and 
you  can  make  $40,000  or  $50,000— that's  heady 
stuff  for  a  22-year-old,"  she  notes.  "But  I  say  to 
some  students,  'You're  going  to  work  for  50  years. 
You  don't  even  like  chemistry.  Why  are  you  in 
chemical  engineering?'" 

Interviews  with  members  of  the  Class  of  2000 
would  indicate  that  at  least  some  students  today  are 
being  guided  by  their  hearts,  rather  than  their  wal- 
lets. Jason  Sardell  '00,  for  example,  a  graduate  of 
the  Massachusetts  Academy  of  Mathematics  and 
Science  at  WPI,  a  state-supported  high  school  for 
Central  Massachusetts  students,  is  completing  a 
double  major  in  physics  and  economics.  "I  was 
planning  on  majoring  in  engineering,"  he  says. 
"Then  I  took  some  physics  courses  and  I  really 
liked  them.  I  like  math,  and  physics  involves  a  lot  of 
math,  as  does  economics."  Asked  if  he  is  expecting 
to  make  a  lot  of  money,  he  replies,  with  a  laugh, 
"In  physics?" 


WPI  JOURNAL 


The  Work  of  00 

Though  much  has  changed  in  the  past  100  years, 
certain  tl^^^remain  the  same,  lor  example,  hard 
work  is  expected  of  students.  In  return,  the\ 
receivflti  excellent  education  and  a  degree  tha 
respected  in  the  world 
of  unjustly. 

Bk  while  hard 
work  has  been  a  con- 
stant fjbrough  the 
years,  fhe  Class  of 
1°00  might  well  have 
had  to  put  in  a  bit 
more  effort  than 
today's  sUulcnLs.  hot 
each  of  the  three 
courses  they  typically 
take  during  each  of 
WPI's  four  academic 
terms,  members  of  the 
Class  of  2 000  are 
expected  to  spend 
about  17  hours  per 
week  in  class,  in  lab, 
or  doing  homework. 
Here  is  how  the  annu- 
al catalog  described 
the  expectations  for 
undergraduates  a 
century  ago: 

The  course  of 
study  is  planned 
in  such  a  way  that  all  the  time  of  every  student  is 
demanded  for  study,  recitation,  drawing,  and 
practice,  excepting  so  much  that  may  be  taken  up 
in  the  necessary  duties  of  life....Special  care 
should  be  exercised  in  regarding  to  evening 
entertainment  since  at  least  five  evenings  a  week 
ought  to  be  devoted  to  the  preparation  of  lessons 
assigned  in  the  different  departments  of  instruc- 
tion. Students  are  expected  to  devote  at  least  two 
hours  [per  day]  to  the  preparation  of  each  lesson 
excepting  those  in  drawing  and  manipulation. 
The  workload  led  one  student  to  lament  in 
the  1900  Aftermath,  the  student  yearbook,  "I  wish 
there  were  eight  days  in  the  week,  so  that  I  could 
work  seven  days  instead  of  six." 

WPI's  rigorous  academic  program  teaches 
students  to  budget  their  time,  Sardell  says.  "I've 
learned  how  not  to  procrastinate.  If  I  have  home- 
work due  in  two  days,  I'll  do  half  tonight."  Says 
Rob  Seneres  '00,  a  mechanical  engineering  major 
from  Providence,  R.I.,  whose  area  of  interest  is 
aerospace  engineering.  "I  spend  about  three  hours 
a  night  per  hour  of  class.  I'll  just  find  myself  doing 
homework  whenever  I  have  free  time." 

WPI  was  built  on  the  premise  that  education 
is  not  just  about  formulas,  but  about  learning  how 
to  apply  knowledge  to  real  problems,  as  students 
will  do  after  they  graduate.  WPI  teaches  students 
how  to  learn,  something  today's  high  schools 


15 


"We  represent  a  fresh 
start — a  new  chance. 
But  it  is  probably 
wrong  to  think  that 
we  are  not  going  to 
make  the  same 
mistakes  as  those 
who  came  before  us. 
However,  we  do  offer 
a  new  and  different 
kind  of  hope — the 
hope  that  we  may 
do  a  better  job. " 
-Jonathan  Tripp  '00 


, 


"I  received  NRs 

[No  Record  grades] 

in  two  out  of  three 

classes. . .  it  changed 

my  approach  toward 

things.  I  developed  a 

more  conservative 

manner,  so  Vm  more 

conscientious  about 

the  decisions  Vm 

making. " 

-  Rob  Seneres  '00 


don't  always  seem  ready  to  do,  notes  Garvin,  who 
says  students  today  learn  work  and  study  habits 
after  they  reach  WPI. 

"Every  year  it  seems  students  are  less 
equipped  and  less  prepared,"  she  says.  "Most  stu- 
dents were  able  to  get  by  in  high  school  by  just 
absorbing  the  material.  The  most  common  thing 
I  hear  from  students  who  are  having  difficulty  is 
that  they  never  had  to  study  in  high  school. 

We  have  very  bright 
kids  who  weren't 
pushed  and  weren't 
challenged." 

But  for  those  who 
are  able  to  adjust,  the 
benefits  of  WPI's 
approach  to  education 
can  be  significant.  Says 
Tripp,  "Professors  force 
you  to  get  into  the 
background  of  a  topic. 
Of  course,  you  don't 
have  to,  but  then  you'll 
wind  up  not  getting 
anywhere  in  the  class. 
You  have  to  figure  out 
how  to  get  out  the  rele- 
vant bits — you  learn 
what's  important.  If  you 
work  at  it,  you're  going 
to  do  well,  and  that's 
great.  That's  a  really 
motivating  factor." 
"There  are  many 
things  you  have  to  look  up  yourself,"  Lamaestra 
says.  "You  do  your  own  research;  that's  some- 
thing that  you  need  to  know  how  to  do,  because 
there's  not  always  going  to  be  someone  telling 
you  the  answers.  I've  had  a  lot  of  really  good 
professors.  They  seem  to  be  just  as  eager  to  teach 
as  I  am  eager  to  learn.  If  you  want  to  learn,  then 
you'll  do  a  lot  better  than  i\  you're  here  just  to 
take  a  class." 

The  lessons  learned  aren't  always  academic 
ones,  as  Seneres  discovered.  I  le  struggled  durin 
his  first  term,  but  he  savs  it  was  an  excellent  lear 
ing  experience.  "I  received  NRs  [No  Record 
grades]  in  two  out  of  three  classes,"  he  says.  "I 
probably  would  not  have  failed  my  elapses  if  I'd 
gone  to  another  school.  But  anvthing«that  doesn't 
kill  you  makes  you  grow — it's  a  builder  of  charac- 
ter. If  I  didn't  fail  courses  in  A  Term,  I  would 
have  done  so  in  B  Term,  because  I  would  not  have 
developed  any  time-management  skills.  That  first 
term  was  a  big  turning  point  for  me.  It  changed 
my  approach  toward  things.  I  developed  a  more 
conservative  manner,  so  I'm  more  conscientious 
about  the  decisions  I'm  making." 

Learning  how  to  learn  is  one  of  the  basic 
tenets  of  the  Plan.  With  its  project-based 
approach,  the  Plan  is  the  cornerstone  of  today's 


WPI.  Along  with  the  university's  reputation  for 
high-quality  instruction,  students  are  drawn  to 
WPI  because  of  the  Plan,  the  project  work  it 
entails,  and  the  work  ethic  it  breeds.  Lamaestra 
puts  it  simply:  "I  came  here  mostly  for  the  hands- 
on  experience.  It  was  one  of  the  few  schools  that 
offered  a  program  in  biotechnology,  but  it  was  the 
projects  that  really  got  my  attention." 

The  Enthusiasm  of  00 

In  general,  WPI  students  are  an  enthusiastic  lot, 
Garvin  says.  But  because  theirs  will  be  the  last 
class  to  graduate  in  the  current  millennium  and 
the  first  to  put  their  WPI  degrees  to  work  in  the 
21st  century,  the  Class  of  2000  seems  to  share 
especially  high  spirits.  "They've  gelled  as  a  class 
earlier  than  other  classes  I've  seen,"  Garvin  says. 
"In  some  way,  I  think  they  feel  that  they  share  a 
special  obligation." 

For  Seneres,  that  obligation  is  nothing  short 
of  leading  the  world  into  the  next  century.  "It's 
like  a  changing  of  the  guard,"  he  explains.  Sardell 
is  more  philosophical.  "It's  really  not  that  much 
different  for  us  than  it  is  for  any  other  class.  The 
difference  is  more  symbolic  than  real." 

But  even  as  they  try  to  take  things  in  stride, 
members  of  the  class  say  they  are  aware  that  the 
world  will  be  watching  them.  "We  represent  a 
fresh  start — a  new  chance,"  Tripp  says.  "But  it  is 
probably  wrong  to  think  that  we  are  not  going  to 
make  the  same  mistakes  as  those  who  came  before 
us.  However,  we  do  offer  a  new  and  different  kind 
of  hope — the  hope  that  we  may  do  a  better  job." 
Notes  Lamaestra,  "To  be  the  Class  of  2000  means 
that  we'll  be  leading  everybody  into  the  next  cen- 
tury. You  know  that  you're  going  to  be  right  there 
for  the  next  century — right  there  in  the  front." 

The  expectations  for  the  43  men  of  the  Class 
of  1900  were  no  less  grand  when  they  received 
their  diplomas.  The  Reverend  Daniel  Merriman, 
stor  emeritus  of  Central  jjjpterch,  concluded  his 
Baccalaureate  sermon  to  tfce  class  with  then 
words:  "You  ire  ffoing  foph  at  a  most  extral 
nary  epoch  i 
the  20th  cen 
gravest  poss 
political, 
vast  sign 
vaunt 


ec 


e  going  fo 
he  world' 
You  m 
issues.  Y« 
omic,  socia 
nee.  You  shall  see  present 
eory  discredited;  you  shall 


story,  the  first 
;t  help  decide  th 
a  must  bear  you 
and  religious  c 


prophecies  fail;  you  shall  see  present  noisy  clamor 
of  tongues  cease;  you  shall  see  much  that  boasts  of 
itself  as  knowledge  vanish  away.  But  in  it  all  I 
exhort  you  to  follow  with  unremitting  and  patient 
devotion  the  more  excellent  way  of  unselfishness. 
For  'now  abideth  faith,  hope  and  love;  but  the 
greatest  of  these  is  love.'" 

Parker,  who  received  his  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
technical  writing,  is  a  technical  writer  for  Iconics  Inc. 
in  Foxboro,  Mass. 


16 


SPRING  1997 


~-  ■  '■"■' 


— "~~ 


ma 


r 


WP!  PLAN 
SUGGESTION  BOX 

IF  YOU  HAVE  ANY  IDEAS  OR 

COMMENTS  ON  HOW  WE  CAN  IMPROVE 

WFfS  PROGRAM  PLEASE  DROP 

A  NOTE  HERE. 


frVr-'  'niVifiifiirir 


The  Best  Laid  Plans 


In  part  one  of  this  two-part  article  (October 
1996),  we  told  of  the  birth  of  the  wpi  plan  and  of  the 
nine  remarkable  men  who  crafted  an  educational 
program  destined  to  turn  the  institute  upside 
down.  The  Plan  was  an  elegant  blueprint.  Turning 
that  vision  into  a  working  program  took  years, 
and  a  massive  community  effort.  along  the  way, 
there  were  errors  committed,  opportunities  missed, 
and  sacrifices  made.  the  plan  today  remains  a 
shining  example  of  higher  education  at  its  best. 
But  is  it  all  it  can  be?  And,  as  a  new  millennium 
approaches,  has  the  time  come  to  look  carefully 
at  this  bold  experiment,  and,  perhaps,  to  plot  a 
new  direction  for  wpi  just  as  revolutionary? 


The  Story  of  the  Plan,  Part  2,  by  Michael  W.  Dorsey 


On  April  15,  1986,  readers  otNewspeak 


EDITORIAL 


WPI  * 


were  confronted  with  an  editorial  that  began, 
"WPI  is  not  the  college  it  says  it  is,  and  hasn't 
been  for  some  time,"  and  ended  with  the  stern 
declaration,  "...what  was  once  an  outstanding 
example  that  idealism  can  work  in  the  real  world 
is  now  an  ironic  mockery,  an  empty  symbol  of  a 
school  that  once  prided  itself  on  being  different. 
That  school  is  now  being  steered  unswervingly 
toward  lockstep  conformity." 

The  frustration  and  anger  in  that  editorial 
were  the  products  of  two  years  that  saw  the  most 

sweeping  changes 
to  befall  the  WPI 
Plan  since  the 
university's 
groundbreaking 
undergraduate 
program  was 
approved  by  the 
faculty  in  1970. 

Those 
changes  began 
when  the  fac- 
ulty voted  to 
allow  individual 


•SS2S££^3gSSm^*~~<'~     acadenucdepart- 


rsr-rss:. 


now  than  ever 


ahly  or  may        .cMtdttt»V"*w"r.u.  Facv'' 


wJs^xssssm'isr' 


H.  Gallagher, 


J  'J 

Vice  Presiaet 


ments  to  require  their 
majors  to  complete  a  set  of 


President  George 
Hazzard,  left,  and  Dean 
of  Academic  Affairs  Ray 
Bolz  helped  lead  and 
support  the  implemen- 
tation of  the  WPI  Plan. 


^dihemoo  distribution  requirements.  It  continued 

with  a  new  grading  system  that  veered  away 
from  the  simple  system  the  Plan  began  with.  It 
included  the  creation  of  a  requirement  that  all 
undergraduates  take  two  courses  in  the  social  sci- 
ences. It  ended  on  April  10,  1986,  when  the  facul- 
ty approved  a  motion  declaring  that  the  Compe- 
tency Examination,  one  of  the  Plan's  original 
degree  requirements,  would  no  longer  apply  to 
students  who  entered  after  May  1984. 

The  writer  of  the 
Newspeak  editorial  was  not 
the  first  person  to  take  the 
pulse  of  the  Plan  and  declare 
it  dead,  and  he  would  not  be 
the  last.  In  fact,  there  have 
been  those  who  have,  since 
the  Plan's  beginnings, 
claimed  that  it  never  really 
did  exist,  at  least  not  in  the 
ideal  form  envisioned  by  the 
faculty  Planning  Committee 
that  created  it.  At  the  other  extreme  are  those 
who  believe  that  the  essence  of  the  Plan  is  a  phi- 
losophy— a  way  of  thinking  about  education— 
that  could  flourish  even  without  any  of  the  Plan's 
degree  requirements. 

The  truth  is,  of  course,  more  complex.  The 
WPI  Plan  has  been,  from  the  start,  an  educational 
program  in  continual  flux.  The  elements  that 
make  up  the  program  today  did  not  spring  into 


existence  all  at  once,  nor  is  the  Competency 
Exam  the  only  component  of  the  original  Plan 
that  is  no  longer  in  place.  Indeed,  nearly  three 
decades  after  its  creation,  the  Plan  remains  a  work 
in  progress. 

The  vision  crafted  by  the  Planning  Commit- 
tee and  amended  and  approved  by  the  faculty  was 
painted  in  broad  strokes.  Filling  in  the  details  and 
creating  a  program  that  could  educate  young  men 
and  women  in  a  manner  worthy  of  culminating  in 
a  degree  from  WPI  took  the  combined  energy, 
imagination  and  commitment  of  hundreds  of  peo- 
ple. One  of  these  was  President  George  Hazzard, 
who  came  to  WPI  just  as  the  Plan  was  taking 
shape  and  lent  his  enthusiasm,  his  own  passion 
for  educational  innovation,  and  his  unsurpassed 
skill  as  a  fund-raiser.  He  was  largely  responsible 
for  major  grants  from  the  Rockefeller  and 
Carnegie  foundations  that  provided  funds — with 
few  strings  attached — that  helped  fuel  the  imple- 
mentation process,  and  he  helped  win  recognition 
for  the  Plan  in  the  national  media  and  among 
WPI's  peers  in  higher  education. 

Like  Hazzard,  Ray  Bolz,  who  came  to  WPI  in 
1973  to  replace  M.  Lawrence  "Cookie"  Price  as 
dean  of  academic  affairs,  was  drawn  to  the  Insti- 
tute by  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in  a  bold 
experiment  in  engineering  education.  Having 
made  his  mark  at  Case  Western  University,  where 
he  served  as  dean  of  engineering,  Bolz  set  to  work 
recruiting  talented  faculty  members  for  WPI  who 
had  the  flexibility  and  vision  to  adapt  to  the  Plan's 
unconventional  format.  Before  he  retired  in  1984, 
he  had  hired  more  than  half  the  WPI  faculty. 

Bolz  worked  closely  with  William  Grogan 
'46,  longtime  electrical  engineering  faculty  mem- 
ber, member  of  the  Planning  Committee,  and 
newly  appointed  dean  of  undergraduate  studies. 
Grogan  headed  a  core  group  of  faculty  members 
and  administrators  who  implemented  the  Plan. 
Radiating  out  from  this  central  structure  were 
many  subcommittees  that  addressed  various 
elements  of  the  Plan,  faculty  committees  that 
helped  shape  many  key  aspects  of  the  Plan  and 
shepherd  them  through  the  faculty  governance 
system,  and  administrative  offices  established  to 
manage  the  myriad  details  of  this  unique  acade- 
mic program. 

Beyond  these  bodies  were  the  entire  faculty, 
staff  and  student  body,  for  the  Plan  was  an  all- 
consuming  entity.  In  a  1974  article  in  the  WPI 
Journal,  Hazzard  said  the  Plan  "is  the  faculty 
working  80  to  100  hours  a  week.  It  if  the  adminis- 
trators doing  likewise.  It  is  tension,  skepticism, 
exhilaration,  frustration,  incredible  detail, 
patience,  and  hope." 

The  story  of  the  WPI  Plan  is  one  of  the  more 
remarkable  tales  in  the  annals  of  academia.  And 
so  far,  it  is  a  story  without  an  ending. 


18 


Spring  1997 


■MfiffM 


"An  opportunity  and  challenge  seldom 
presented  to  any  faculty  or 
administration. " 

Bhe  glow  of  the  victory  party  at  Putnam 
and  Thurston's  Restaurant  had  hardly 
died  away  in  the  spring  of  1970  when  the 
cold  light  of  reality  began  to  dawn.  The 
faculty  vote  had  committed  the  Institute  to  carry 
out  a  gargantuan  task.  To  implement  the  Plan, 
WPI  would  have  to  throw  away  virtually  every 
critical  element  of  its  undergraduate  program— 
the  academic  calendar,  the  grading  system,  the 
degree  requirements — and  replace  them  with  a 
largely  undefined  system. 

It  was  a  breathtaking  leap  of  faith — and  an 
enormous  risk.  But  the  risk  of  doing  nothing  was 
higher.  Between  1964  and  1968,  WPI's  entering 
freshman  classes  averaged  fewer  than  400  stu- 
dents. In  1968,  WPI  admitted  850  of  the  1,400 
students  who  applied,  and  enrolled  just  350. 
Maintaining  the  school's  rigid  academic  program 
—at  a  time  when  educational  reform 
was  blossoming  around  the  country  and 
when  the  Vietnam  War,  the  growing 
environmental  movement  and  student 
unrest  had  led  to  a  severe  decline  in  interest  in 
engineering  careers — promised  little  hope  of 
reversing  the  decline  in  WPI's  student  population 
and,  by  association,  the  Institute's  troubling  finan- 
cial outlook. 

So  while  the  Plan  was  a  means  of  creating  a 
more  appropriate  vehicle  for  educating  technologi- 
cal professionals,  it  was  also  a  life  ring  to  keep  the 
Institute  afloat  in  a  sea  of  fiscal  uncertainty.  And 
since  life  rings  do  no  good  if  tossed  too  late,  the 
Plan  had  to  be  put  in  place  swiftly.  Recognizing 
that  urgency,  Hazzard  sent  the  faculty  a  memo  on 
Oct.  19,  1970,  outlining  an  ambitious  timeline  for 
implementing  the  Plan.  It  called  for  a  pioneering 
group  of  freshmen  and  upperclass  students  to  begin 
completing  their  degree  requirements  under  the 
Plan  in  1971.  The  Plan's  first  major  component — 
Intersession — would  go  on-line  midway  through 
the  1971-72  academic  year. 

Hazzard  named  Grogan  chairman  of  the 
General  Implementation  Committee,  consisting 
of  a  select  group  of  administrative  officers,  the 
chairmen  of  the  faculty  committees  responsible 
for  the  curriculum  and  campus  social  life,  and  the 
chairman  of  the  faculty  Curriculum  Committee. 
Assisting  the  General  Implementation  Committee 
would  be  five  ad  hoc  committees  comprising 
more  than  50  faculty  members  and  students. 
They  would  focus  on  the  implementation  of  stu- 
dent projects  and  independent  studies,  on  Inter- 
session, on  the  advising  system,  on  facilities  and 
equipment  needed  for  the  new  curriculum,  and 
on  the  role  of  audiovisual  technology  in  the  Plan. 
In  a  separate  memo  to  the  members  of  those 
committees,  Hazzard  wrote,  "We  currently  face 
an  opportunity  and  challenge  seldom  presented  to 


any  faculty  or  administration.  I  need  your  whole- 
hearted support  and  effort  in  implementing  the 
Plan  successfully." 

"It  was  a  period  of  enormous  tension. " 

■^■H  hen  the  (  reneral  Implementation  (  iom 
Iff  I  mittee  met  for  the  firsl  time  in  tin   I. ill  of 
I  A  I   1970,  there  were  a  great  many  questions 
■Afl  mi  the  table  and  not  man)  answers.  (  )ver 
the  next  15  years,  the  committee  would  dispose  of 
nearly  all  of  them  in  a  swift,  no-nonsense  manner. 
Meeting  weekly,  the  committee  marched  briskly 
through  succinctly  worded 
agendas  under  Grogan's 
leadership. 

"Bill  Grogan  was  the 
orchestrator,"  says  Joseph 
Mielinski  '63,  now  finance 
director  for  the  Leominster, 
Mass.,  Public  Schools,  who 
was  hired  by  WPI  in  1970 
to  administer  the  evolving 


X 


project  program.  "It  was 
Bill's  wisdom  that  kept 
things  in  balance  and  that 
let  us  keep  everything  in 
perspective."  Says  James 
Demetry,  professor  and 

associate  head  of  the  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering  Department,  "It  is  impossible  to  over- 
state Bill  Grogan's  contribution  to  the  success  of 
the  Plan.  He  went  about  leading  the  implementa- 
tion with  incredible  dedication  and  resourcefulness 
that,  even  today,  instills  loyalty." 

The  most  frightening  question  the  General 
Implementation  Committee  faced  was  whether  the 
Plan  would  work  at  all.  Given  that  the  school's 
future  was  riding  on  the  program  and  given  the 
large  number  of  faculty  members  who  were  dead 
set  against  it,  this  was  not  an  idle  worry,  Grogan 
says.  "Some  days  you  wondered  if  it  would  go,  but 
you  couldn't  let  anybody  know  that.  You  couldn't 
transmit  even  the  slightest  doubt,  because  there 
were  a  lot  of  people  who  wanted  it  to  go  away. 
They  weren't  going  to  leave  WPI,  but  they  really 
wanted  things  to  go  back  to  the  way  they  had  been. 
We  had  to  get  across  the  idea  that  WPI  was  never 
again  going  to  be  the  way  it  was." 

High  on  the  General  Implementation  Com- 
mittee's list  of  priorities  in  those  early  days  were 
two  changes  that  would  prove  ideal  vehicles  for 
sending  that  message:  seven-week  terms  and 
Intersession.  The  switch  to  seven-week  terms  was 
a  trying  process — "a  major  jolt  to  the  system," 
Grogan  calls  it.  As  chairman  of  the  Curriculum 
Committee,  Thomas  Keil,  now  head  of  the 
Physics  Department,  was  responsible  for  making 
sure  the  changeover  went  smoothly. 


"you   couldn't 
transmit   even 
the   slightest 
doubt,    because 
there  were  a 
lot   of   people 
who  wanted 
[The   Plan] 
to  go  away." 
-William  Grogan 


WPI  Journal 


19 


"We   had  to 
rewrite   every 
course   descrip- 
tion,   eliminate 
courses,  and  add 
new  courses 
required  by  the 
Plan.  It  was  a 
major  milestone." 
-Thomas   Keil 


"We  made  the  switch  to  seven-week  terms  in 
the  fall  of  1972 — even  before  the  Plan  was  fully 
implemented — a  time  when  most  students  were 
still  meeting  their  degree  requirements  under  the 
old  system,"  Keil  says.  "There  was  simply  no  way 
we  could  run  seven-week  terms  for  Plan  students 
and  14-week  semesters  for  everybody  else.  So  in 
a  short  period  of  time,  we  had  to  rewrite  every 
course  description  and,  at  the  same  time,  elimi- 
nate courses  and  add  new  courses  required  by 
the  Plan.  It  was  a  major  milestone.  I  think  it  was 
really  a  stroke  of  genius  to  do  this  so  soon.  It 
made  it  clear  that  the  Plan  was  going  to  have  a 
major  impact,  one  that  would  affect  everybody" 

The  Planning  Com- 
mittee had  called  for  a  cal- 
endar based  on  terms  in 
the  belief  that  such  a  sys- 
tem was  essential  for  the 
success  of  an  academic 
program  that  revolved 
around  projects.  "There 
were  really  two  reasons," 
Grogan  says.  "A  lot  of  stu- 


7-Week     erms 


dents  said  the  semester 
system,  which  required 
students  to  take  five  or  six  concurrent  courses,  so 
divided  their  attention  they  felt  they  really  could 
not  get  into  anything.  They  were  always  putting 
out  fires. 

"In  addition,  I  had  learned  through  my  own 
courses  that  if  you  tried  to  run  serious  projects  in 
competition  with  five  or  six  courses — with  all  of 
the  deadlines  they  heaped  on  students — the  pro- 
jects suffered.  And  that  says  nothing  of  trying  to 
get  students  off-campus  to  do  project  work." 

Grogan  says  students  liked  seven-week  terms 
from  the  start,  but  the  reviews  from  the  faculty 
were  mixed,  at  best.  Some  instructors  found  the 
process  of  revamping  courses  easier  than  others. 
The  process  seemed  most  trying  for  courses  in 
the  sciences  and  mathematics.  "The  math  faculty 
constantly  tried  to  convince  the  university  to  go 
back  to  semesters,"  Grogan  says.  "They  had  their 
reasons.  They  felt  students  could  not  effectively 
learn  mathematics  in  seven-week  bites." 

The  first  experience  with  seven-week  terms 
was  the  most  difficult,  Grogan  says.  "At  the  end 
of  that  first  term,  people  really  freaked  out.  They 
couldn't  believe  the  term  was  over.  Romeo 
Moruzzi,  who  was  then  acting  dean  of  the  faculty, 
had  a  cocktail  party  for  the  faculty  at  Higgins 
House.  It  was  one  of  the  wildest  times  we  ever 
had.  The  faculty  were  absolutely  beside  them- 
selves. It  was  a  period  of  enormous  tension." 

Seven-week  terms  remain  one  of  the  more 
controversial  elements  of  the  Plan.  Francis  Lutz, 
former  dean  of  undergraduate  studies  at  WPI 


who  is  now  dean  of  the  School  of  Science,  Tech- 
nology and  Engineering  at  Monmouth  Universi- 
ty, says  one  problem  is  that  each  academic  year 
brings  to  campus  a  new  crop  of  young  faculty 
who  have  only  had  experience  with  teaching  in 
semesters,  and  they  find  adjusting  to  a  term  sys- 
tem difficult.  "There  is  a  need  for  continuing 
effort  on  the  part  of  senior  faculty  and  the  admin- 
istration to  educate  these  faculty  members  on  the 
reasons  for  the  seven-week  term  system." 

But  opposition  to  the  system  is  not  limited  to 
new  professors.  Keil  says  he  is  one  of  a  number 
of  veteran  faculty  members  who  would  support  a 
return  to  the  semester  system.  "There  are  major 
disadvantages  to  seven-week  terms,"  he  says. 
"There  are  a  lot  of  things  that  students  find  dif- 
ficult to  absorb  over  such  a  short  period  of  time. 
And  the  logistics  of  registering  students  four 
times  a  year  is  a  nightmare — we're  always  starting 
or  stopping  courses,  and  there  is  a  cost  to  us  for 
that.  It  is  argued  that  seven-week  terms  make  it 
possible  for  students  to  complete  projects  off- 
campus,  but  I  feel  that  our  off-campus  project 
program  is  limited  by  seven-week  terms.  I'd  like 
to  see  students  spend  a  semester  at  a  project  cen- 
ter. They'd  have  time  to  complete  a  project  plus 
a  lot  more  time  to  deal  with  cross-cultural  issues, 
language  issues  and  so  on." 

Still,  Keil  says  he  recognizes  that  such  a 
change  is  unlikely.  "We  were  able  to  switch  to 
seven-week  terms  because  the  faculty  wasn't  as 
busy  as  it  is  today.  Now,  with  teaching  and  project 
advising,  there  isn't  a  lot  of  excess  capacity — 
everybody  is  pretty  much  flat  out.  One  of  the 
elements  of  the  theory  of  change  is  that  the  peo- 
ple who  are  going  to  make  change  have  to  have 
the  time  to  do  it,  and  we  don't." 

"Everyone  was  teaching  something.  It 
was  extraordinarily  successful. " 

Of  the  introduction  of  seven-week  terms  was 
received  by  the  faculty  like  a  dose  of  castor 
oil,  the  first  Lntersession  was  an  extra  large 
Whitman's  Sampler.  Designed  as  a  three- 
week  academic  interlude  between  B  and  C  terms, 
lntersession  quickly  exploded  into  a  smorgasbord 
of  knowledge.  Anyone  with  expertise  in  a  particular 
area — no  matter  how  narrow  or  off-beat — could 
offer  a  course  that  might  last  a  few  days  to  a  few 
weeks,  and  many,  many  people  did  just  that. 

The  catalog  for  the  first  lntersession  in  January 
1972  included  listings  for  more  than  400  courses, 
with  titles  that  included  "Fiction  Into  Films,"  "Liv- 
ing in  a  Commune,"  "Design  and  Testing  of  M.F 
Directional  Antenna  Arrays,"  "Bachelor  Cooking: 
Survival  to  Gourmet,"  "Skiing  for  Beginners," 
"Biomedical  Instrumentation  With  Computer 
Applications,"  and  "The  Tudor  Interlude"  (a  per- 
formance of  a  16th  century  comic  play).  Students 
traveled  to  the  White  Mountains  for  a  course  in 
winter  mountaineering,  others  took  an  oceano- 


20 


Spring  1997 


imira 


IttU 


graphic  research  cruise  in  the  Caribbean,  some 
went  to  Puerto  Rico  to  study  geology.  "Everyone 
was  teaching  something,"  Crogan  says.  "It  was 
extraordinarily  successful." 

Defying  the  predictions  of  those  who  said 
students  would  rather  spend  the  winter  break  in 
the  tropical  sun  than  in  a  classroom,  the  courses 
drew  some  4,000  registrations.  More  than  70 
percent  of  all  undergraduates  signed  up,  along 
with  many  faculty,  staff  and  alumni.  There  were 
a  number  of  goals  for  this  acade- 
mic free-for-all,  Grogan  says. 
"The  idea  was  to  let  members  of 
the  YVPI  community  try  new 
things,  to  enable  faculty  members 
and  students  to  get  to  know  each 
other  in  new  combinations,  and  to 
give  students  an  opportunity  to 
pick  up  useful  ancillary  material 
they  could  use  in  their  courses  and 
projects." 

Raymond  Hagglund,  professor 
of  mechanical  engineering,  was  an 
early  and  eager  supporter  of  Inter- 
session.  "I  offered  a  week  of  free- 
body  diagrams,"  he  says.  "These 
are  one  of  the  most  critical  things 
in  engineering — if  you  can't  draw 
them,  you  can't  do  engineering.  By 
the  end  of  that  week,  students  were 
masters." 

With  fellow  mechanical  engi- 
neering  professor  Hartley  Grandin, 
Hagglund  also  offered  a  course  on 
building  a  house.  "Students  actually 
built  walls,  did  the  wiring  and 
plumbing,  and  so  on.  Three  hun- 
dred kids  signed  up  for  that  course 
the  first  time,  even  though  I  could 
only  handle  30.  Some  of  these  kids  had  never 
used  a  hammer  or  sweated  a  joint  or  put  in  a  light 
switch.  Now,  I  happen  to  think  these  are  impor- 
tant things  to  know.  They  add  a  practical  element 
to  engineering." 

Feedback  from  participants  showed  that  the 
program  was  meeting  its  objectives.  Students 
reported  that  they  were  learning  skills  and  tech- 
niques that  would  prove  valuable  in  their  studies. 
The  informal  atmosphere  in  the  courses  was 
helping  break  down  the  campus's  ivory  towers. 
And,  perhaps  most  important,  everyone  was  hav- 
ing fun  breaking  free  in  a  spectacular  fashion 
from  the  rigidity  that  had  been  the  norm  in 
WPI's  undergraduate  program  for  many  years. 

Like  a  dazzling  flower  that  blooms  briefly  but 
then  must  die  so  the  fruit  can  mature,  Interses- 
sion  eventually  gave  way  to  the  growing  demands 
of  other  Plan  elements,  most  notably  the  Compe- 
tency Examination.  "January  was  the  big  month 
for  taking  the  Comp,"  Grogan  says,  "and  it  fell 
right  on  top  of  Intersession." 


\lter  several  years  of  declining  enrollment, 
the  ( icneral  Implemen- 
tation Committee  put  an 
end  to  Intersession  in 
1  <>S2.  But  for  those  who 
lived  through  it,  the 
program  remains  one 
of  the  most  exciting  and 
unusual  diversions  in 
WPI's  long  history. 


K> 


Intersession 


■^*    flS 


lit    U/^L-l 

E 


I 


"Projects  breed 

projects. " 

I  all  the  prob- 
lems Grogan 
expected  to 
face  in  bring- 
ing the  Plan  on-line, 
none  loomed  larger 
than  the  challenge  of 
finding  enough  topics 
to  ensure  that  all  WPI 
undergraduates  could 
eventually  complete 
the  Plan's  three  pro- 
ject-based degree 
requirements. 

"A  number  of  facul- 
ty members  had  incor- 
porated projects  in  their 
courses,"  Grogan  says, 
"and  there  were  projects  done  as  independent  stud- 
ies and  honors  theses.  We  were  running  perhaps  60 
projects  a  year.  I  remember  waking  up  at  4  a.m. 
some  days  in  a  cold  sweat  thinking,  'My  God,  in  a 
year  or  two  we'll  have  to  have  1,200  project  regis- 
trations. Where  are  we  going  to  find  them?'  We 
were  worried  that  it  would  be  an  exercise  in  frustra- 
tion for  students,  but  an  even  greater  worry  was 
that  the  projects  would  be  trivial.  As  it  turned  out, 
this  was  not  a  problem.  Projects  breed  projects." 
Grogan  says  WPI  alumni  helped  prime  the 
project  pump.  "Not  all  alumni  thought  the  Plan 
was  such  a  good  idea,"  he  says.  "Some  thought 
this  was  a  wild  scheme,  one  that  seemed  to  dis- 
parage their  own  educations.  Others  bought  into 
the  Plan  with  great  enthusiasm.  They  recognized 
how  this  program  would  have  enhanced  their 
educations.  These  were  the  graduates  we  went  to 
as  we  searched  for  project  ideas  and  support. 
Before  long  we  had  an  embarrassment  of  riches — 
file  drawers  full  of  letters  from  alumni  wanting  to 
do  projects  with  us.  Alumni  may  not  realize  it, 


Intersession  was  a  brief 
but  memorable  inter- 
lude in  the  Plan.  Held 
each  January,  it  was  an 
academic  free-for-all 
that  featured  hundreds 
of  short  courses  on  all 
manner  of  topics, 
including,  from  bottom, 
bachelor  cooking,  draw- 
ing and  sand  castle 
building. 


WPI  Journal 


21 


but  in  those  early  days  of  the  Plan,  they  played  a 
critical  role  in  making  it  all  happen." 

Finding  project  topics  was  only  one  element 
of  bringing  the  project  program  into  existence. 
Administering  a  program  of  that  magnitude  was 
something  no  one  had  ever  tried  to  do.  There 
were  no  rules,  no  procedures,  and  no  infrastruc- 
ture to  manage  such  an  effort.  And  there  was  lit- 
tle time  to  get  everything  in  place.  The  first 
group  of  Plan  students  would  need  to  be  working 
on  projects  during  the  1971-72  academic  year, 
and  each  year  the  program  would  grow  until  it 
reached  an  all-out  steady  state  in  1973-74. 


1 


yntjm 


Top,  a  project  in  the 
Environmental  Systems 
Study  Program,  which 
served  as  a  test  bed  for 
Plan  projects.  Student 
Brian  J.  Savilonis  '72, 
now  a  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering 
at  WPI,  is  standing  at 
right.  Bottom,  Francis 
Lutz,  who  eventually 
administered  the  Plan 
as  dean  of  undergrad- 
uate studies. 


By  a  fortunate  coincidence,  WPI  had  received 
a  $200,000,  three-year  grant  from  the  Alfred  P. 
Sloan  Foundation  in  1969  to  create  a  program 
that  would  prove  to  be  an  excellent  test  bed 
for  WPI  Plan  projects  and  for  faculty  project 
advising.  The  grant  funded  the  Environmental 
Systems  Study  Program  (ESSP),  a  new  method 
for  teaching  future  engineers  and  scientists  to 
approach  the  solution  of  environmental  problems 
in  an  interdisciplinary  fashion.  Imre  Zwiebel, 
then  a  professor  of  chemical  engineering  at  WPI 
and  now  a  professor  in  the  Department  of  Chem- 
ical, Biomedical  and  Materials  Engineering  at 
Arizona  State  University,  applied  for  the  grant 
through  a  special  foundation  program  that  funded 
innovation  in  technological  education. 

"Everything  seemed  to  mesh  at  that  time," 
Zwiebel  says.  "The  Plan  was  coming  together  and 
we  felt  we  had  a  novel  educational  approach  to 
present  to  Sloan.  We  were  also  combining  tech- 
nology and  society  through  the  study  of  the  envi- 
ronment, which  was  innovative.  Sloan  made  just 
10  awards  through  this  program,  and  we  were  the 
only  small  school  to  get  one." 


Through  the  ESSP,  students  completed  envi- 
ronmental projects  sponsored  by  local  companies 
during  the  summer.  For  example,  one  team  of 
students  solved  a  noise  problem  at  a  local  chem- 
ical company  while  another  looked  at  the  prob- 
lems caused  by  the  discharge  of  sewage  treatment 
sludge  into  Boston  harbor.  Though  the  projects 
were  highly  technical  in  nature,  they  helped  stu- 
dents understand  the  broader  social  implications 
of  engineering  and  technology.  In  this  way,  ESSP 
became  the  springboard  for  a  major  effort  to 
define  what  would  become  the  most  distinctive 
and  powerful  element  of  the  Plan. 

"The  need  for  the  IQP  became  clear 
as  day. " 

0  s  it  was  drafted  by  the  Planning  Commit- 
tee and  approved  by  the  faculty,  the  WPI 
Plan  contained  a  substantial  loophole. 
Among  the  handful  of  degree  require- 
ments included  in  the  Plan  were  two  qualifying 
projects:  one  that  had  to  be  concentrated  in  a 
student's  major  discipline  (now  called  the  Major 
Qualifying  Project)  and  another  that,  it  was  rec- 
ommended, should  be  in  an  area  that  touches 
upon  the  relationship  between  science,  technol- 
ogy and  society. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Plan,  many  faculty 
members  and  students  were  eager  to  take  advantage 
of  the  leeway  this  description  provided.  Many  on 
the  faculty  believed  strongly  that,  since  the  practice 
of  engineering  and  science  in  our  modern  world  is 
intimately  intertwined  with  social  issues  and  con- 
cerns, all  students  should  undertake  a  science,  tech- 
nology, society  project.  But  others  believed  that  the 
best  route  to  proficiency  in  a  technical  field  is  prac- 
tical experience,  and  the  more  the  better;  if  one 
qualifying  project  in  the  major  area  was  good,  two 
would  be  twice  as  good. 

"The  idea  that  the  second  qualifying  project 
should  be  a  technical  project  had  a  lot  of  support 
on  campus,"  Lutz  says.  "The  notion  of  an  inter- 
active project  was  really  something  new  for  tech- 
nical higher  education  at  that  time — as  was  the 
thought  of  devoting  so  much  academic  credit  to 
something  that  was  so  ill-defined." 

Giving  definition  to  the  science,  technology 
and  society  project  was  the  charge  of  an  interdis- 
ciplinary committee  appointed  in  1971  by  Grogan 
and  chaired  by  Zwiebel.  Its  members  included 
some  of  the  faculty  who  had  gained  experience 
in  project  advising  through  the  ESSP,  including 
Demetry,  Hagglund  and  Lutz,  as  well  as  Leon 
Graubard,  professor  of  management,  John 
O'Connor,  professor  of  social  science  and  policy 
studies,  and  Douglas  Woods,  head  of  the  Social 
Science  and  Policy  Studies  Department  and 
recently-named  co-chair  of  the  Interdisciplinary 
and  Global  Studies  Division. 

Much  like  the  Planning  Committee,  the 
Zwiebel  Committee  (as  the  group  came  to  be 


22 


Spring  1997 


i  flii«>  -.taa. 


■MUdl 


mug. 


known)  went  about  its  work  with  remarkable  ded- 
ication and  energy,  fueled  by  each  member's  abid- 
ing interest  in  education.  And  like  the  members 
of  the  Planning  Committee,  the  Zwiebel  Com- 
mittee members  found  the  experience  exhilarating 
and  profoundly  moving. 

Says  Zwiebel,  "We  spent  a  great  deal  of  time 
together.  We  exchanged  ideas.  We  worked  on 
one  another.  We  became  very  close  friends — we 
became  one.  That  camaraderie  and  support  was 
the  key  to  the  planning  and  development  of  the 
IQP.  I  think  we  showed  that  if  people  are  truly 
given  the  opportunity  to  develop  something- 
look  what  they  can  do." 

For  the  better  part  of  a  year,  the  committee 
met  almost  weekly  in  a  room  in  the  back  of  Alden 
Memorial.   There  they  debated  concepts  and 
ideas,  drafted  and  redrafted  sections  of  their 
report,  and  hit  by  bit,  crafted  not  only  a  defini- 
tion of  the  interdisciplinary  project,  but  a  finely 
wrought  and  well-reasoned  exploration  of  the 
philosophy  behind  the  project.  The  committee 
was  also  the  group  that  gave  the  project  its  name: 
the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project,  or  IQP. 

"1  think  many  people  at  WPI  recognized  that 
there  was  something  missing  in  the  education  of 
engineers  and  scientists,"  Zwiebel  remembers. 
"There  was  a  lot  of  emphasis  on  pollution  then — 
we  had  seminars,  Earth  Day  observances,  and  so 
on — so  there  was  a  consciousness  about  the  social 
consequences  of  technology.  But  unfortunately, 
there  was  a  feeling  that  we  didn't  know  what  to 
do  about  those  consequences.  Thinking  of  things 
this  way,  the  need  for  the  IQP  became  clear  as 
day. 

The  committee  recommended  that  the  IQP 
become  the  second  qualifying  project  and  that  all 
students  be  required  to  complete  it.  By  doing  so, 
they  wrote  in  their  report,  students  would 
become  sensitive  to  social  problems,  be  able  to 
question,  criticize  or  reinforce  prevailing  ethics 
and  values,  be  aware  of  societal-humanistic-tech- 
nological interactions,  and  be  able  to  make  better 
judgments  and  policy  recommendations  on  issues 
that  affect  society.  In  short,  they  would  become 
better  scientists  and  engineers. 

Having  fulfilled  its  charge,  the  committee 
could  have  filed  its  report  and  ended  the  arduous 
project  it  had  taken  on.  But  it  recognized  that  a 
project  as  unusual  as  the  IQP — one  whose  focus 
tell  outside  the  spheres  of  expertise  and  the  com- 
fort zones  of  most  WPI  faculty  members,  and  one 
for  which,  in  all  likelihood,  faculty  members 
would  receive  little  or  no  credit  toward  the 
rewards  of  tenure  and  promotion — would  require 
a  great  deal  in  the  way  of  institutional  support. 
Demetry  has  compared  the  IQP  to  a  ball  sitting 
at  the  peak  of  a  steep  hill.  "It's  not  a  naturally  sta- 
ble situation,"  he  says.  "You  have  to  work  to  keep 
that  ball  up  there  or  it's  going  to  roll  back  down. 
It's  a  tenuous  stability,  at  best." 


The  committee  proposed  a  two-pronged 
approach  to  supporting  the  project.  On  one 
prong,  the  committee  recommended  that  prepa- 
ration courses  be  developed  to  acquaint  students 
with  socio-technical  interrelationships  and  to 
teach  them  techniques  for  designing  studies  and 
surveys.  They  also  strong- 
ly recommended  that  all 
students  complete  a  pre- 
liminary protect  —a  sort  of 
trial  run  to  explore  a  topic 
and  lay  the  groundwork 
lor  the  full-blown  [QP— 
and  that  students  be 
required  to  defend  their 
project  ideas  to  advisors 
in  the  form  of  proposals. 

"We  wanted  to  he 
sure  that  this  project  did 
not  become  a  superficial 
exercise,"  Zwiebel  says. 
"We  wanted  this  effort  to 
lead  to  a  publishable 
result.  That  was  the  key 
to  the  whole  thing.  We 
were  looking  for  a  way  to 
he  sure  that  the  bond 
between  the  technological 
component  and  the  societal  component  was 
meaningful.  Preparation  was  the  key  to  prevent- 
ing superficiality." 

Faculty  development,  the  other  prong,  was 
of  equal — if  not  greater— importance,  the  com- 
mittee believed.  Among  the  group's  recommen- 
dations was  one  for  on-campus  sabbaticals  that 
would  enable  faculty  members  to  learn  about 
social  problems  and  issues  that  could  become  fod- 
der for  projects.  "The  on-campus  sabbatical  was 
to  be  a  way  to  learn  about  disciplines  outside  of 
one's  own  area  in  a  cost-effective  way,"  Zwiebel 
says.  "The  committee  felt  there  was  something 
quite  potent  in  that." 

Many  of  the  committee's  recommendations 
were  never  implemented.  But  other  efforts  were 
made  to  prepare  the  way  for  the  IQP.  One  of  the 
products  of  the  Zwiebel  Committee  was  a  pro- 
posal to  the  Sloan  Foundation  that  resulted  in  a 
large  grant  that  supported  two  summer  work- 
shops for  faculty  interested  in  advising  IQPs.  As 
the  first  director  of  the  IQP  program,  Hagglund 
organized  the  first  workshop  in  1972.  The  second 
was  organized  the  following  summer  by  Demetry, 
who  in  1975  became  the  first  chairman  of  the 
Division  of  Interdisciplinary  Affairs,  which  was 
set  up  to  nurture  the  IQP  and  to  oversee  the 
interdisciplinary  majors  made  possible  by  the 
flexibility  of  the  Plan. 

The  workshops  brought  WPI  faculty  mem- 
bers together  with  groups  of  recognized  authori- 
ties on  a  wide  range  of  social  issues.  "These  were 
people  who,  in  the  1950s  and  1960s,  would  have 


11 


The    IQP 


"The    IQP   is   the 
single  most 
important   con- 
tribution wpi 
has   made   to 
technological 
education-it    is 
wpi's   defining 
characteristic .  ' 
-Francis   Lutz 


WPI  Journal 


23 


Imre  Zwiebel,  left,  led  a 
committee  that  defined 
the  Interactive  Quali- 
fying Project  and  urged 
the  university  to  sup- 
port it  with  a  range  of 
student  and  faculty 
development  programs. 
Douglas  Woods,  a 
member  of  the  Zwiebel 
committee,  recently 
wrote  a  report  suggest- 
ing ways  WPI  can  rein- 
vigorate  the  IQP. 


seemed  out  of  place  at  WPI,"  Demetry  says.  "But 
they  exposed  the  faculty  to  issues  that  were  totally 
out  of  the  conventional  engineering  framework. 
They  didn't  make  experts  of  us,  but  they  made  us 
aware  of  the  problems  that  were  out  there.  I  think 
the  workshops  also  made  believers  out  of  a  num- 
ber of  skeptics  on  the  faculty.  After  they  were 


over,  we  had  a  lot  of  people  willing  to  take  on  a 
share  of  the  burden  of  advising  IQPs." 

With  the  Zwiebel  Committee  report  and  the 
Sloan-sponsored  workshops,  the  IQP  got  off  to  a 
good  start.  But  the  General  Implementation 
Committee  felt  the  need  to  carefully  time  its  pro- 
posal to  make  the  project  a  formal  degree 
requirement.  "It  was  a  political  decision,"  Grogan 
says.  "We  waited  until  we  were  well  into  the  Plan 
and  had  many  people  who  were  committed  to  the 
IQP.  Then,  a  ground  swell  of  support  for  abolish- 
ing the  project  arose  in  the  Chemistry  Depart- 
ment, and  we  knew  the  time  had  come  to  move. 
If  we  had  waited  another  year,  we  might  have  lost 
the  momentum." 

The  year  was  1977.  That  spring,  the  Com- 
mittee on  Academic  Policy  brought  the  issue 
before  the  faculty  for  a  vote.  By  that  time,  only  a 
handful  of  students  were  completing  two  techni- 
cal projects.  Still,  a  number  of  faculty  members 
rose  to  strongly  oppose  the  removal  of  the  option 
to  do  a  second  MQP.  But  by  a  voice  vote  the  fac- 
ulty approved  the  new  degree  requirement,  which 
would  first  apply  to  students  graduating  in  1981 
— more  than  10  years  after  the  Plan's  approval. 

"WPI  Fumbled  the  Ball" 

Bince  the  creation  of  the  IQP,  the  ball  has 
remained  on  top  of  the  hill,  though  at 
times  it  has  threatened  to  give  in  to  the 
relentless  tug  of  gravity.  "The  IQP  is  the 
single  most  important  contribution  WPI  has 
made  to  technological  education — it  is  WPFs 
defining  characteristic,"  Lutz  says.  "But  precisely 
because  it  is  so  different  from  anything  in  any 
other  curriculum  around  the  country,  it  requires 
occasional  evaluation  to  assure  that,  though  it  is 
different,  it  is  still  substantial." 

In  fact,  periodic  faculty  reviews  have  identi- 
fied and  helped  address  a  number  of  problems 


with  the  implementation  of  the  project,  most 
especially  that  of  IQPs  that  are  really  technical 
projects  (MQPs)  and  projects  that  are  not  worthy 
of  college-level  work.  But  other  problems  persist. 
Last  fall,  the  Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies 
Division  sponsored  a  retreat  for  60  faculty  and 
staff  members  to  review  the  pluses  and  minuses  of 
the  IQP  and  to  make  plans  for  its  future. 
A  subset  of  that  group  continued  to  work 
during  the  winter  and  recently  produced  a 
final  report. 

The  report,  written  by  Douglas 
Woods,  noted  that  the  most  vexing  prob- 
lems facing  the  IQP  are  precisely  those 
that  the  Zwiebel  Committee  hoped  to 
avoid  by  placing  so  much  emphasis  on 
student  and  faculty  preparation.  In  partic- 
ular, a  1995  review  of  IQP  quality  showed 
that  while  projects  completed  off  campus 
were  generally  excellent,  about  a  third  of 
projects  done  on  campus  involve  too  little 
work  or  work  of  insufficient  quality  to  receive 
credit  as  a  degree  requirement.  In  addition,  some 
projects  demonstrate  a  lack  of  understanding  of 
the  methods  of  conducting  social  science  research 
and  analyzing  data. 

The  report  recommended  that  ways  be  found 
to  increase  understanding  among  students  and 
faculty  members  about  the  goals  of  the  IQP  and 
that  an  IQP  manual  be  prepared  that  will  provide 
faculty  members  with  the  information  they  need 
to  be  effective  advisors.  It  recommended  that 
students  be  encouraged  to  do  more  preparation 
for  projects,  including  more  course  work  relating 
to  their  project  topic.  And  it  suggested  that  on- 
campus  IQPs  become  more  like  their  off-campus 
counterparts.  In  particular,  more  on-campus  pro- 
jects should  be  sponsored  by  local  and  regional 
agencies  and  organizations,  they  said. 

WPI  also  recently  bolstered  its  administration 
of  the  IQP  by  dividing  the  responsibilities  of  the 
IGSD  among  three  co-chairs.  Current  IGSD 
chair  Hossein  Hakim,  professor  of  electrical  and 
computer  engineering,  will  continue  to  direct 
WPI's  Global  Perspective  Program  and  support 
IQPs  completed  at  off-campus  sites.  Douglas 
Woods  will  direct  the  new  Interdisciplinary  Stud- 
ies Program,  which  will  support  IQPs  completed 
on  or  near  campus.  Richard  Vaz,  associate  profes- 
sor of  electrical  and  computer  engineering,  will 
become  director  of  faculty  and  student  develop- 
ment programs  and  provide  support  to  these  two 
critical  areas. 

But  even  as  WPI  works  to  increase  its  com- 
mitment to  the  IQP,  the  chairman  of  the  commit- 
tee that  defined  it  more  than  two  decades  ago 
wonders  whether  the  effort  may  be  too  little,  too 
late  to  garner  WPI  the  national  recognition  and 
respect  he  feels  the  project  could  have  won  the 
university.  "During  the  next  few  years,  as  WPI 
devotes  its  total  effort  to  the  Plan,  it  will  become 


24 


Spring  1997 


ll  III  I  illlllllMlllll  IDIM  llillllini  llHIIMl  UHlllHlIf  lllll 


an  educational  laboratory,"  the  Zwiebel  Commit- 
tee wrote  in  its  report.  "WPI's  progress  in  imple- 
menting this  innovative  program  will  be  carefully 
observed  by  other  educators  as  well  as  by  indus- 
trial and  governmental  employees.  It  is  highly 
probable,  therefore,  that  the  successful  features  of 
the  WPI  Plan  will  exert  considerable  influence  on 
the  programs  of  many  universities,  and  on  the 
general  course  of  higher  education  in  the  years  to 
come." 

"WPI  fumbled  the  ball,"  Zwiebel  says  now. 
"I  felt  that  WPI  had  invented  something  great 
and  should  have  devoted  considerable  resources 
to  enable  it  to  grow.  Now,  the  rest  of  the  world  is 
catching  up  to  WPI,  but  if  it  had  invested  its 
resources  in  the  IQP,  it  could  have  become  a 
national  leader  in  the  interface  of  science  and 
technology.  I  don't  think  WPI  believed  in  the 
potential  value  of  the  IQP  from  an  administrative 
point  of  view.  It  was  accepted  as  an  educational 
tool,  but  not  for  its  potential  to  build  national  and 
international  prominence.  It's  never  too  late  to 
get  started  toward  that  goal,  but  the  university 
must  be  willing  to  put  its  resources  into  it  and 
place  its  focus  on  it.  It  must  be  willing  to  make 
the  commitment." 

"I  don  V  think  we  should  hold  anything 
above  inspection. " 

Bn  the  process  of  implementing  the  Suffi- 
ciency, the  project  that  greatly  increased 
the  role  of  the  humanities  in  the  edu- 
cation of  WPI  undergraduates,  WPI 
created  a  new  department.   Prior  to  the  start  of 
the  Plan,  the  humanities  had  been  the  province 
of  two  departments,  each  with  its  own  faculty 
and  department  head.   In  1974,  the  English 
Department,  then  chaired  by  Charles  Heventhal, 
a  member  of  the  Planning  Committee,  and  the 
Department  of  History,  Modern  Languages, 
Music  and  Art,  under  the  chairmanship  of  Donald 
Johnson,  combined  to  become  the  Humanities 
Department  (today  known  as  the  Humanities 
and  Arts  Department),  with  Johnson  serving  as 
its  first  head. 

"Because  of  the  urgency  of  getting  ready  for 
the  Sufficiency,  the  transition  had  to  come  quick- 
ly," Heventhal  says.  "We  defined  a  three-year 
program  to  make  it  happen.  It  took  a  lot  of  hard 
work  and  sacrifice,  but  I'm  proud  of  what  we  did 
in  reorganization  of  the  humanities  and  in  the 
development  of  the  drama/theater  and  music 
areas." 

The  move  was  aimed  at  helping  create  an  aca- 
demic infrastructure  adequate  to  nurture  and  sus- 
tain the  Sufficiency  project.  Prior  to  the  Plan, 
humanities  courses  had  been  offered  primarily  to 
enable  students  to  fulfill  the  few  nontechnical 
electives  available  in  a  typical  four-year  academic 
schedule  and  to  fulfill  the  criteria  of  the  national 
engineering  accreditation  agency  that  required 


students  to  take  a  half  year  of  humanities  and 
social  science  courses.  The  Sufficiency  requires 
each  student  to  take  five  thematically  related 
courses  and  then  complete  a  project  that  some- 
how grows  from  those  courses.  It  was  clear  that 
this  level  of  involvement  in  the  humanities  would 
require  more  resources  than  WPI  could  muster  as 
the  Plan  began. 

Those  resources  would  include  more  faculty 
members  to  teach  the  courses  students  needed 
as  they  explored  a  wide  variety  of  topics  in  the 
humanities  and  arts.  To  help  in  this  area,  WPI 
secured  a  $30, 000  grant  from  the  National  Endow- 
ment for  die  Humanities  to  look  at  the  needs  of 
the  humanities  program;  a  second  NEH  grant  of 
$180,000  was  used  to  hire  two  new  faculty  mem- 
bers and  to  cover  die  cost  of  course  development 
and  library  acquisitions.  WPI  also  provided  hinds 
to  expand  the  humanities  faculty  in  the  early  years 
of  the  Plan  and  the  Mellon  Foundation  assisted  in 
faculty  and  program  development. 

Lance  Schachterle,  now  a  professor  of  Eng- 
lish and  assistant  provost  for  academic  affairs,  was 
one  of  those  new  recruits.  Arriving  on  campus  in 
the  fall  of  1970,  he  says  he  joined  the  rest  of  the 
humanities  faculty  in  trying  to  make  sense  of  the 
Sufficiency.  "There  was  a  fair  amount  of  disagree- 
ment among  the  various  humanities  disciplines 
about  what  it  meant  to  do  a  cumulative  project," 
he  says.  "We  also 
had  to  decide  what 
it  meant  for  courses 
to  have  a  thematic 
connection.  No  one  had  an  answer  for  this  at  the 
start.  We  also  had  a  host  of  very  practical  ques- 
tions to  answer.  For  example,  to  what  extent 
should  students  borrow  or  build  on  the  content 
of  the  courses  and  to  what  extent  could  they  write 
something  completely  new  that  has  no  relation- 
ship to  the  courses?" 

Like  the  IQP,  the  Sufficiency  has  been  the 
subject  of  periodic  reviews  that  have  identified 
and  helped  solve  problems  that  have  plagued  it. 
These  reviews  have  also  helped  the  Humanities 
and  Arts  Department  wrestle  with  the  goals  and 
expectations  it  has  for  the  Sufficiency.  Grogan 
and  others  say  the  time  may  have  come  for  a 
more  comprehensive  review  that  will  enable  the 
university  to  look  more  closely  at  the  project  and 
at  whether  it  continues  to  meet  the  goals  that  the 
Planning  Committee  set  for  it. 

"I'm  not  sure  it  is  doing  its  intended  job  any- 
more," Grogan  says.  "Students  now  seem  to  take 
humanities  courses  that  fit  their  schedules,  rather 
than  courses  that  fit  with  a  theme.  And  I'm  not 
sure  the  project  is  giving  students  a  sufficient  base 
in  an  area  of  the  humanities  to  carry  on  an  avoca- 
tional  interest.  As  we  look  at  the  Plan  and  review 
its  degree  requirements,  I  don't  think  we  should 
hold  anything  above  inspection,  including  the 
Sufficiency." 


As  a  new  member  of  the 
Humanities  Department, 
Lance  Schachterle 
helped  make  sense  of 
the  Sufficiency. 


The    Sufficiency 


"i'm  not   sure 
[the   Suffi- 
ciency]   is    DOING 
its   intended 
job  anymore. 
Students   now 
seem   to   take 
humanities 
courses   that   fit 
their  schedules, 
rather   than 
courses   that   fit 
with  a   theme." 
-William  Grogan 


WPI  Journal 


2S 


(9 


"We  were  all  there  as  a  team.  And  that's 
critical. " 

hile  most  of  the  story  of  the  WPI  Plan 
revolves  around  pedagogy,  there  have  also 
been  some  important  issues  ot  geography. 
In  the  first  few  years,  the  most  important 
of  these  was  finding  a  physical  home  on  campus 
for  the  new  project  programs.  The  minutes  of 
the  General  Implementation  Committee  reflect 
considerable  discussion  about  where  to  create  the 
Project  Center  and  what  to  house  under  its  roof. 

The  "where"  question  was  answered  by  refur- 
bishing the  foundry  building  on  West  Street  with 
the  help  of  a  $150,000  grant  from  The  Kresge 
Foundation.  The  "what"  took  a  bit  longer  to  sort 
out.  As  originally  conceived,  the  Project  Center 
was  to  be  a  sort  of  machine  shop  where  students 
could  build  equipment  for  their  projects.  When 
it  became  apparent  that  most  of  this  work  could 
be  done  in  existing  labs  and  shops,  the  center 
became,  instead,  the  home  for  the  people  and 
programs  needed  to  administer  the  Plan,  a  role 
it  continues  to  fill  today 


The  third  floor  of  Wash- 
burn Shops,  once  a 
cluttered,  dusty  storage 
space,  was  transformed 
into  an  administrative 
center  for  the  IQP  by 
a  team  of  volunteers 
led  by  Mechanical 
Engineering  Professor 
Raymond  Hagglund. 


After  the  IQP  had  been  defined,  it  was  agreed 
that  this  innovative,  interdisciplinary  project 
needed  a  home  base  of  its  own.  "I  was  informed 
one  day  that  the  college  was  going  to  renovate  a 
little  room  for  me  on  the  third  floor  of  Wash- 
burn," Hagglund  says.  "The  third  floor  was  then 
an  attic  and  it  had  become  a  real  dump.  I  said, 
'My  gracious,  what  a  wonderful  place  this  is  going 
to  be!  Who  will  ever  come  up  here?  I  don't  want 
to  be  up  here.'" 

Hagglund,  borrowing  on  his  own  home 
building  experience,  worked  out  a  plan  to  reno- 
vate the  entire  floor  for  the  same  $25,000  that 
had  been  set  aside  to  create  his  office,  and  volun- 
teered to  serve  as  general  contractor.  He  secured 
Grogan's  approval,  and  one  Saturday  morning 
arrived  at  Washburn  with  a  wrecking  crew  that 


included  Mielinski,  Demetry,  Lutz  and  a  horde 
of  students.  "That  weekend,  we  gutted  the  third 
floor,"  Hagglund  says.  "Then  on  Monday,  there 
was  a  union  grievance  filed  against  me.  We  solved 
that  problem  by  hiring  union  craftsmen  from  the 
Plant  Services  Department  on  an  overtime  basis, 
providing  they  were  willing  to  work  with  stu- 
dents.  It  worked  out  great." 

Hagglund  contained  costs  by  using  volunteer 
workers  and  by  finding  used  or  unconventional 
building  materials  whenever  possible.  When  a 
downtown  Worcester  company  decided  to  get  rid 
of  some  13 -foot-tall  computer  walls,  he  bought 
them  for  a  tiny  fraction  of  their  value  and  used 
cables  to  lower  them  out  of  a  10th  floor  window 
into  a  WPI  dump  truck.  Needing  walls  for  stu- 
dent study  carrels,  he  found  some  inexpensive 
toilet  stall  partitions  that  worked  fine.  "We  built 
ourselves  a  home,"  he  says.  "It  was  a  place  where 
we  could  bring  together  all  the  faculty  who  were 

running  the  project 
program,  the  faculty 
who  were  advising  pro- 
jects, and  the  students. 
We  were  all  there  as 
a  team,  and  that's 
critical." 
Hi  According  to  Hag- 

^    '  glund  and  others,  the 

mMl^^^r  [QP  (  filter  well 

m  be  the  place  where 

another  crucial  piece 
R~-^  m  of  Plan  geography  got 

m     #  its  start.  In  1972,  WPI 

received  a  $733,400 
grant  from  the  National  Science  Foundation 
to  help  with  the  implementation  of  the  Plan. 
Augmenting  the  $1.1  million  WPI  had  already 
committed  to  the  Plan  implementation,  the  grant 
included  $65,000  to  establish  an  off-campus  res- 
idential center  for  student  project  work.  In  the 
early  days  of  the  Plan,  project  center  arrange- 
ments were  developed  that  enabled  students  to  do 
projects  on-site  with  local  corporations  (Digital 
Equipment  Corporation  and  Norton  Company 
were  among  the  first)  and  biomedical  institutions 
(including  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Med- 
ical Center  and  St.  Vincent  Hospital).  Also  in 
those  first  few  years,  WPI  developed  traditional 
foreign  exchange  programs  with  the  City  Univer- 
sity of  London  and  the  Federal  Technical  Insti- 
tute in  Zurich,  Switzerland.  The  NSF  center 
would  combine  elements  of  both  concepts  to 
create  a  site  where  students  would  be  in  residence 
for  seven  weeks  to  complete  project  work. 

Initially,  Grogan  says,  the  thought  was  to 
establish  an  MQP  center  affiliated  with  a  major 
corporation.  "Imre  Zwiebel  and  I  traveled  all  over 
looking  for  a  suitable  partner,"  he  says.  "We  visit- 
ed U.S.  Steel  in  Cleveland,  General  Electric  in 
Schenectady  and  Du  Pont  in  Wilmington.  We 


26 


Spring  1997 


una 


■BUM 


put  a  great  deal  of  time  into  this,  but  we  began  to 
see  the  limitations  of  a  disciplinary  center,  includ- 
ing the  need  to  have  all  the  students  from  one  or 
a  few  disciplines  and  finding  faculty  members 
knowledgeable  in  the  focus  area  of  the  projects. 
It  was  at  one  of  the  General  Implementation 
Committee  meetings  that  we  decided  the  center 
should  be  a  site  for  IQPs,  instead." 

With  this  change  in  focus,  attention  turned 
briefly  to  New  York  City  and  its  financial  com- 
munity, Lutz  says.  "Then  one  day,  during  a  meet- 
ing in  the  IQP  center,  Tom  Keil  suggested  Wash- 
ington, D.C.,  as  a  place  that  was  rich  in  a  whole 
range  of  societal  and  political  issues  relating  to 
technology,  and  everyone  quickly  latched  on  to 
that  idea.  Now,  with  the  passage  of  time,  1  may 
have  romanticized  what  happened  next,  but  I 
remember  having  to  leave  the  meeting  early  and, 
as  a  consequence,  being  chosen  to  be  the  center's 
first  director." 

Before  it  welcomed  its  first  students  in  1974, 
the  Washington  Project  Center  would  need  a 
home  and,  more  important,  some  projects  and 
project  sponsors.  Starting  with  introductions 
from  Massachusetts  legislators  and  from  faculty 
members  and  alumni  who  had  contacts  at  a  host 
of  federal  agencies  and  national  organizations, 
Lutz,  Hagglund,  Demetry,  Grogan,  Mielinski, 
Keil  and  others  knocked  on  doors  all  over  the 
nation's  capital  and  sold  the  Plan  and  the  project 
concept. 

The  success  of  the  Washington  Project  Cen- 
ter in  the  late  1970s  and  early  1980s  set  the  stage 
for  the  creation  of  a  global  network  of  project 
centers  and  sites.  Starting  with  the  establishment 
of  the  London  Project  Center  in  1987,  the  Global 
Perspective  Program  has  grown  to  include  some 
1 1  centers  on  four  continents. 

"Everything  was  different,  so  everything 
was  challenged. " 

Bhroughout  the  Plan's  history,  there  has 
been  constant  pressure  to  change  the  pro- 
gram— from  within  WPI  and  from  be- 
yond the  campus.  At  times,  those  forces 
have  combined  to  force  important  revisions.  A 
case  in  point  is  the  Plan's  decidedly  unconven- 
tional grading  system.  The  system  was  designed, 
in  part,  to  eliminate  the  cutthroat  competition 
typical  of  engineering  programs  by  doing  away 
with  such  status  symbols  as  grade-point  averages, 
dean's  lists  and  class  standing.  It  also  removed 
much  of  the  disincentive  for  students  to  take  risks 
by  abolishing  the  stigma  of  a  failing  grade. 

While  few  argued  that  the  system  was  not 
beneficial  to  students,  many  pointed  to  problems 
with  its  structure,  which  included  just  three 
grades:  AC  (acceptable),  AD  (acceptable  with  dis- 
tinction) and  NR  (no  record  made  on  a  student's 
transcript).  One  of  the  most  important  problems 
with  the  system  was  the  difficulty  graduate 


schools  had  comparing 
the  academic  success  of 
WPI  students  with  that 
of  students  from  schools  with  conventional  grad- 
ing systems.  This  problem  proved  especially  acute 
among  medical  schools,  which  must  process  huge 
volumes  of  applications. 

From  inside  WPI  came  a  different  concern. 
With  only  two  passing  grades,  it  was  argued,  the 
system  encouraged  students  who  did  not  believe 
they  could  earn  an  AD  in  a  course  to  slack  off, 
since  the  AC  grade  made  no  distinction  between 
a  good  performance  and  a  poor  but  passable  one. 
But,  Keil  says,  the  system  sometimes  spurred  stu- 
dents to  work  harder.  "Some  students  worked 
hard  in  one  course  to  get  an  AD  and  improve 
their  transcript,"  he  says,  "whereas  under  a  con- 
ventional system  they  might  have  been  content 
to  get  all  Bs." 

Early  on,  Grogan  began  advocating  for  a 
change  to  an  A-B-C-NR  system.  "I  felt  the  grad- 
ing system  was  one  of  the  few  mistakes  we  made," 
he  says.  "It  was  a  compromise  between  those  who 
wanted  a  pass/fail  system,  which  would  have  made 
it  impossible  for  students  to  go  to  graduate 
school,  and  those  who  wanted  a  conventional  sys- 
tem. It  was  an  experiment  that  was  worth  trying, 
but  we  held  on  to  it  for  too  long." 

In  1986,  by  a  vote  of  the  faculty,  the  A-B-C- 
NR  system  Grogan  had  long  sought  was  approved. 
For  those  in  the  academic  world  beyond  WPI,  the 
change  made  WPI  look  a  bit  more  comprehensible, 
but  also  a  bit  more  conventional.  Says  Keil,  "In  a 
funny  way,  having  a  totally  different  grading  system 
makes  you  seem  eccentric  and  reinforces  the  fact 
that  you  are  different.  So  changing  the  grading 
system  made  us  seem  less  eccentric  and,  dierefore, 
less  innovative." 


Washington,  D.C 


With  money  from  the 
National  Science  Foun- 
dation, WPI  established 
its  first  residential  proj- 
ect center  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C,  in  1974.  The 
center  was  a  great  suc- 
cess and  paved  the  way 
for  a  network  of  project 
centers  that  now  span 
the  globe. 


WPI  Journal 


27 


Accreditation 


"The   pressure 
exerted  by  the 
bean  counters 
really  hurt  us. 
i'm  still  not 
convinced  we 
fought  hard 
enough.    Distri- 
bution   REQUIRE- 
ments are  not 
a  good  measure 
of  competence. . . . 
What   students  get 
on  their  tran- 
script,   course  by 
course,    doesn't 
say  a  whole   lot." 
-Thomas   Keil 


One  of  the  most  persistent  sources  of  outside 
pressure  on  the  Plan  has  come  from  the  major 
national  body  responsible  for  accrediting  engi- 
neering programs  at  colleges  and  universities,  the 
Accreditation  Board  for  Engineering  and  Tech- 
nology or  ABET.  WPI's  first  accreditation  visit 
under  the  Plan  came  in  1972,  just  as  the  Plan  was 
being  fully  implemented. 
ABET,  anxious  to  under- 
stand and  learn  from  WPFs 
bold  experiment,  sent  a  blue-ribbon  panel  made 
up  of  some  of  the  organization's  most  experienced 
and  senior  evaluators. 

"It  was  a  truly  positive  experience,"  Lutz  says. 
"The  team  recognized  that  the  changes  we'd 
made  were  not  only  educationally  successful,  but 
a  real  model  for  engineering  education  in  the 
country.  We  ended  up  with  a  full  six-year  accredi- 
tation for  all  our  engineering  programs." 

Subsequent  ABET  visits  were  less  positive, 
Lutz  says.  "ABET  didn't  send  blue-ribbon  panels 
after  that  first  experience.  The  teams  that  came  to 
WPI  tended  to  use  a  more  traditional  mode  of 
evaluation,  which  meant  challenging  everything 
that  was  done  differently.  At  WPI,  of  course, 
everything  was  different,  so  everything  was  chal- 
lenged." 

Since  WPI  had  no  required  courses  and  used 
the  vehicles  of  required  projects  and  the  Compe- 
tency Exam  to  determine  whether  students  were 
learning  what  they  needed  to  be  competent  pro- 
fessionals, the  ABET  visitors  frequently  had  diffi- 
culty deciding  whether  WPI  students  were  meet- 
ing the  standards  ABET  had  established  for  earn- 
ing accredited  degrees  in  civil,  chemical,  electri- 
cal, manufacturing  and  mechanical  engineering. 
Each  visit  and  each  accreditation  report  brought 
new  pressure  to  adapt  required  courses  in  science, 
math  and  engineering — pressure  that  came  with 
the  threat  of  possible  loss  of  accreditation. 

WPI  resisted  the  pressure  for  more  than  a 
decade,  but  ultimately  the  prospect  of  losing  the 
official  stamp  of  approval  that  comes  with  accred- 
itation— and  the  likely  impact  that  loss  would 
have  on  student  enrollment — proved  too  great  a 
risk.  In  1984,  the  faculty  approved  a  motion  that 
enabled  academic  departments  to  adopt  distribu- 
tion requirements. 

"Our  experience  with  accreditation  is  an 
unfortunate  part  of  the  history  of  the  Plan,"  Keil 
says.  "The  pressure  exerted  by  the  bean  counters 
really  hurt  us.  I'm  still  not  convinced  we  fought 
hard  enough.  Distribution  requirements  are  not  a 
good  measure  of  competence.  Students  who  pass 
all  the  right  courses  can  still  be  weak  links.  On 
the  other  hand,  there  were  students  in  the  early 
days  of  the  Plan  who  did  not  come  close  to  meet- 
ing our  current  distribution  requirements,  but 
who  were  stunningly  good  students.  What  stu- 
dents get  on  their  transcript,  course  by  course, 
doesn't  say  a  whole  lot." 


With  distribution  requirements  and  the  Com- 
petency Exam,  WPI  had,  in  effect,  two  competing 
methods  for  assuring  that  students  were  getting  an 
adequate  education.  It  was  only  a  matter  of  time 
before  the  Comp,  perhaps  the  Plan's  most  troubled 
child,  came  under  scrutiny.  Plagued  by  problems, 
feared  by  students  (though  fiercely  defended  by 
alumni  who  survived  it),  and  enjoying  only  tenuous 
support  from  the  faculty,  the  Comp  was  eliminated 
for  departments  that  had  implemented  distribution 
requirements.  (At  right  is  the  amazing  story  of  the 
Competency  Examination.) 

Jack  Boyd,  emeritus  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  and  a  Planning  Committee  member, 
says  he  believes  the  move  to  replace  the  Compe- 
tency Exam  with  distribution  requirements  was  a 
major  blow  to  the  Plan.  "The  Comp  was  an 
extremely  effective  symbol,"  he  says.  "We  never 


really  took  the  time  to  discuss  modifications  that 
might  have  lowered  the  exam's  anxiety  level. 
When  we  killed  the  exam,  it  broke  my  heart,  for  I 
knew  what  would  follow.  We  now  have  the  worst 
possible  combination  of  a  traditional  engineering 
program  and  a  flexible  program." 

"The  footnotes  are  killing  us. " 

Bn  time,  every  department — even  those 
not  subject  to  ABET  accreditation — 
developed  distribution  requirements. 
The  requirements  represent  the  most 
significant  move  WPI  has  made  in  the  direction 
of  a  more  traditional,  rigid  curriculum,  since  the 
passage  of  the  Plan.  Unfortunately,  Grogan  con- 
tends, they  also  opened  the  door  for  departments 
to  move  further  along  that  retrograde  path. 

"Distribution  requirements,  in  the  broadest 
sense,  are  probably  necessary,"  he  says,  "but  the 
footnotes  are  killing  us.  Some  departments  keep 
adding  more  and  more  requirements  and  reining 
students  in  further  with  footnotes  that  add  addi- 
tional specificity  to  the  requirements.  In  some 
cases,  departments  have  more  requirements  than 
they  did  in  the  days  before  the  Plan.  I  think  the 

(Continued  on  page  SI) 


28 


Spring  1997 


■IWMIIIIIIIIIMIIIIB 


tunmaisBamiranDnium 


MM— gfc^M  ■"■  — 


COROLLARY 


Their  Finest  Hour 


By  William  R.  Grogan  '46 


For  an  incredible  1  3  years,  life  under  the 
WPI  Plan  was  dominated,  not  by  projects 
or  courses,  but  by  the  Competency  Exami- 
nation, the  most  daring,  far-sighted  and,  perhaps, 
presumptuous  of  all  the  Plan's  original  features. 

The  Comp  was  the  Sword  of  Damocles  hang- 
ing over  every  student's  head.  At  the  same  time,  it 
was  a  spectacular  rite  of  passage;  the  great  com- 
mon experience  shared  by  every  graduate  of  that 


period  and  the  anticipated  experience  that  focused 
the  programs  of  those  yet  to  graduate.  Those  who 
passed  it  developed  a  sense  of  self-confidence 
unequaled  in  times  of  peace. 

The  original  WPI  Plan  offered  total  flexibility  in 
course  selection.  Students  and  advisors  could  make 
up  any  program  they  wished.  Qualification  in  a 
major  field  was  established  only  by  successful  com- 
pletion of  the  MQP  and  the  Comp.  A  total  of  12 
units  of  courses  or  projects  and  an  advisor's  approval 
were  all  that  were  needed  to  take  the  exam. 

Early  on,  deep  concern  arose  over  the  exam. 
The  faculty  of  each  department  found  they  had  to 
define  just  what  sort  of  creature  it  was  that  they 
thought  they  were  producing.  What  is  a  B.S. -level 
electrical  engineer  or  chemist?  Once,  one  could  say 
it  was  someone  who  had  passed  a  particular  series  of 
courses.  Now  we  had  to  ask,  for  the  first  time,  "Just 
what  should  a  WPI  graduate  be  able  to  do  and  how 
will  we  know  if  he  or  she  can  do  it?" 

Some  of  the  most  soul-searching  discussions  in 
WPI's  history  took  place  between  1971  and  1972. 
The  faculty  spent  hours  agonizing,  fighting  and 
philosophizing  about  what  their  professions  were 
all  about.  Then  they  had  to  decide  how  students 
could  demonstrate — in  one  week — that  they  were 


competent  to  enter  the  profession  they  were  trying 
to  define.  What  sort  of  exercise  can  demonstrate 
that  the  student  is  able  to  satisfactorily  organize 
data,  solve  complex  problems,  develop  original 
creative  designs,  display  a  knowledge  of  funda- 
mentals, communicate  the  results,  and  all  the 
other  qualities  the  catalog  promised  would  result 
from  a  WPI  education? 

It  was  decided  to  set  up  a  maximum  of  four 
one-week  periods  per  year  for  the  experience:  three 
between  terms  and  one  after  graduation.  The  exam 
was  to  consist  of  one  or  two  complex  problems— 
usually  difficult  design  problems  for  the  engineers. 
One  chemical  engineering  Comp,  for  example,  said, 
"Design  a  designated  section  of  an  ammonia  plant 
to  meet  the  following  specifications...."  About  120 
pages  of  specifications  were  presented. 

The  written  examinations  were  usually  open- 
book  and  took  several  days.  The  grand  finale  was  the 
notorious  oral  exam.  Each  student  appeared  alone 
before  a  board  of  three  faculty  members  to  defend 
his  or  her  problem  solutions.  The  student  then  had 
to  answer  any  questions  the  faculty  wished  to  pose. 

The  formats  of  the  exams  were  supposed  to 
be  similar  for  all  departments,  but  they  quickly 
diverged.  We  tried  to  keep  a  degree  of  conformity, 
since  it  was  an  all-college  requirement,  but  from 
my  standpoint  and  that  of  the  Committee  on 
Academic  Policy  (CAP),  the  whole  exercise  was 
like  herding  cats. 

Most  departments  passed  out  the  exams  on 
Monday  morning,  and  told  the  students  to  come 
back  with  solutions  in  three  days.  Some  departments 
allowed  faculty  consultations,  provided  the  name  of 
the  consultant  and  time  involved  were  accurately 
recorded.  The  suspicious  Chemical  Engineering 
Department  would  have  none  of  that.  It  required 
students  to  be  in  classrooms  under  faculty  proctor- 
ship for  six  3  'A  hour  periods.  Following  this  came 
the  30-minute  orals. 

The  Computer  Science  exam  grew  longer  and 
longer  over  time  until,  finally,  CAP  insisted  it  be 
pulled  back  from  a  10-day  to  a  5-day  period  to 
protect  the  sanity  of  the  exhausted  students.  In 
madiematics,  a  student  had  to  investigate  an  assigned 
open-ended  theoretical  problem  for  50  hours.  After 
a  day  of  rest,  the  student  then  faced  a  grueling  90- 
minute  examination  at  a  blackboard. 

The  departments  developed  their  own  rituals  for 
announcing  the  results,  but  by  6:30  on  Friday  night, 
just  about  everyone  had  learned  their  fate.  In  diose 
days,  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  (now  Gompei's)  was  the 


The    Comp 


'The  Comp  was 
the   Sword  of 
Damocles   hang- 
ing   OVER  EVERY 
STUDENT'S  HEAD. 
AT  THE  SAME 
TIME,  IT  WAS 
A  SPECTACULAR 
RITE  OF  PASSAGE; 
THE  GREAT  COM- 
MON EXPERIENCE 
SHARED  BY  EVERY 
GRADUATE  OF 
THAT  PERIOD." 


WPI  Journal 


29 


COROLLARY 


'E  HAD  IN  T 

COMP  AN  EDUC 

TIONAL  MRI  TH 

COULD  HAVE  PR 

VIDED  US  WI 

AN  UNPARALLELE 

ONCE-IN- 

LIFETIME  OPPO 

TUNITY  TO  LO 

INTO  OURSELV 

AND  RELATE  T 

OUTCOME  TO  0 

TEACHING  PROCE 

AND  TO  0 

GOALS 


HE 
A- 
AT 
0- 
TH 
D, 
A- 
R- 
OK 
ES 
HE 
UR 
SS 
UR 


focus  of  student  and  faculty  life  every  Friday  after- 
noon. But  never  was  the  Goat's  Head  as  filled  with 
electricity  and  people  as  on  those  Fridays  when 
Competency  Exam  results  were  announced.  Happy 
seniors  bounded  down  the  stairs  screaming,  "I'm 
Competent!,  I'm  Competent!"  Toasts  flew.  Others 
came  in  holding  back  tears  seeking  the  solace  of 
buddies  and  beer,  wondering  how  they  would  ever 

pull  together  their  shattered  lives.  Mean- 
A  ^^t7rf^~]    while,  wide-eyed  underclassmen 
*-/-l#  /    absorbed  seniors'  stories  of  out- 
rageous departmental  demands, 
impossible  faculty  expectations,  and, 
of  course,  the  hair-raising  orals. 

The  faculty,  feeling  that  the  admin- 
istrative and  emotional  problems  associ- 
ated with  running  an  exam  just  before 
graduation  were  too  great,  had  voted  that 
no  Comps  would  be  given  between  the 
March  exam  period  and  graduation.  It  was 
a  prudent  rule,  but  it  enraged  parents  who 
had  been  looking  forward  to  graduation. 
The  importance  of  the  graduation  cere- 
mony assumed  leviathan  proportions  in  the  minds 
of  parents  unable  to  participate.  One  set  of  parents 
would  not  leave  President  Edmund  Cranch's  office. 
Some  students  who  failed  the  March  exam  could  not 
bring  themselves  to  tell  their  furious  parents  until 
the  last  minute.  We  became  increasingly  concerned 
about  what  some  failing  students  might  do  in  their 
state  of  depression  following  the  exam.  One  student 
actually  disappeared  for  two  weeks,  which  caused 
enormous  concern  until  he  turned  up  in  Marine 
boot  camp  at  Parris  Island,  S.C.  The  name  of  the 
examination  was  also  a  problem.  One  father  wrote 
to  me  complaining  that  he  had  spent  $50,000  only 
to  have  his  son  declared  "incompetent." 

The  percentage  of  students  failing  the  Comp 
became  a  constant,  like  Pi.  It  was  right  around  30 
percent  every  single  time  the  examination  was  given. 
About  20  percent  of  students  received  a  grade  of 
Distinction  (equivalent  to  an  A).  Many  of  us  became 
increasingly  concerned  about  the  cause  of  the  fail- 
ures, their  validity,  and  our  ability  to  deal  effectively 
with  failed  students.  If  a  student  failed  because  he 
did  not  know  enough  thermodynamics,  the  answer 
was  simple — take  the  needed  course  work.  But  some 
students  had  top  grades  in  all  the  courses  they  might 
be  expected  to  take,  but  could  not  handle  a  compre- 
hensive problem.  We  organized  problem-solving 
seminars  for  them,  tried  to  boost  their  self-confi- 
dence, and  let  them  practice  with  old  examinations. 
It  helped,  but  not  that  much. 

The  feedback  from  the  examinations  had  great 
potential  for  providing  the  faculty  with  important 
insights  into  our  educational  program.  There  were 
some  thoughtful  departmental  studies  to  determine 
why  there  was  such  a  gap  between  what  we  thought 
we  were  teaching  and  what  it  seemed  students  were 


really  learning — or  not  learning.  But  we  lacked  the 
time  to  adequately  explore  this  golden  opportunity 
for  educational  discovery. 

One  clear  finding  did  emerge  and  brought  about 
some  changes  in  curricular  approaches.  The  most 
common  reason  examiners  gave  for  failures  was  lack 
of  understanding  of  fundamentals.  While  we  wor- 
ship fundamentals  and  introduce  them  at  the  fresh- 
man or  sophomore  level,  we  seriously  neglect  to 
reinforce  them  in  later  years.  We  become  absorbed 
in  presenting  techniques  and  state-of-the-art  ideas 
with  little  if  any  reference  to  the  fundamental  princi- 
ples behind  them.  Reviewing  fundamentals  absorbs 
time,  and  everyone  is  driven  to  "cover  new  materi- 
al." The  Comp  told  us  clearly  that  for  many  stu- 
dents, we  were  expecting  one  outcome,  while  our 
teaching  was  often  producing  quite  another. 

We  had  in  the  Comp  an  educational  MRI  that 
could  have  provided  us  with  an  unparalleled,  once- 
in-a-lifetime  opportunity  to  look  into  ourselves  and 
relate  the  outcome  to  our  teaching  process  and  to 
our  goals.  Our  inability  to  pursue  more  extensive 
analysis  of  the  relationship  between  Competency 
Examination  outcomes  and  the  educational  process 
was,  I  feel,  unfortunate.  It  was  our  most  serious  lost 
opportunity  in  the  long  implementation  campaign 
that  produced  so  many  achievements. 

While  the  internal  pressures  surrounding  the 
examination  were  growing,  the  external  pressures 
were  worse.  The  Accreditation  Board  for  Engi- 
neering and  Technology  (ABET)  simply  would 
not  accept  the  Competency  Exam  in  lieu  of  course 
distribution  requirements. 

It  had  also  become  clear  to  many  of  us  that  even 
without  ABET's  pressure  we  were  going  to  have  to 
have  some  sort  of  distribution  requirements  in  the 
sciences,  as  we  had  done  in  the  humanities  from  the 
start.  Students  did  try  to  retain  material  they  expect- 
ed to  encounter  on  the  Comp,  but  avoided  other 
important  material.  We  eventually  adopted  mini- 
mum distribution  requirements  reluctantly,  for  we 
knew  they  were  biological  in  nature  and  would  soon 
start  growing — as  they  did.  With  the  distribution 
requirements,  the  rationale  for  the  Competency 
Examination  faded.  We  could  not  sustain  at  WPI 
the  overlay  of  this  demanding  examination  when  by 
meeting  only  the  distribution  requirements  a  student 
would  have  qualified  for  a  degree  in  any  other  engi- 
neering program  in  the  land. 

So  on  April  10,  1986,  while  some  students  car- 
ried a  mock  coffin  around  Kinnicutt  Hall  labeled 
"The  Plan,"  the  faculty  voted  to  phase  out  the  exam- 
ination. Some  faculty  were  opposed,  as  were  many 
alumni  who  had  gone  through  it.  Passing  the  Comp 
had  become  a  matter  of  great  pride,  both  personally 
and  collectively,  for  over  7,000  alumni  who  shared 
the  experience.  These  alumni  are  indeed  a  special 
group.  For  many  of  them,  passing  the  Competency 
Exam  was  their  finest  hour  at  WPI. 


30 


Spring  1997 


■  III  IIIIIIIIIMmiBiMWHIl 


t«mniiKuuu»mimmnnuu,M»«oammhUHc«iMMm 


lilllliiliiniummiii 


(Con ti n tied  from  page  28) 

motivation  to  dictate  what  is  best  for  students  is 

rooted  deep  in  the  soul  of  educators." 

That  motivation  has  sometimes  emerged  in  the 
form  of  what  Boyd  calls  a  "curriculum  in  a  drawer." 
At  WPI,  as  at  other  academic  institutions,  he  says, 
"there  is  always  a  tension  between  academic  free- 
dom and  institutional  goals.  But  some  people  went 
beyond  the  pale  in  developing  unpublished  curricu- 
la that  students  were  urged  to  take  it  they  wanted 
to  be  professionals  in  certain  fields." 

During  the  1995-96  academic  year,  the  facul- 
ty adopted  a  new  curricular  element  that  Grogan 


encourage  students  to  focus  all  their  efforts  on 
areas  that  may  evaporate  after  they  graduate. 
They  also  lock  up  students'  time  to  the  point 
where  their  ability  to  go  overseas  to  do  projects 
or  to  take  advantage  of  other  broadening  oppor- 
tunities the  Plan  provides  is  impeded.  God 
knows,  if  there  is  anything  undergraduates  need, 
it's  flexibility." 

Keil  says  the  institution  of  concentrations  and 
minors  (another  new  curricular  feature  adopted 
by  the  faculty  last  year)  reflects  a  change  in  the 
outlook  of  students.  He  says  today's  students  seem 
less  able  to  make  their  own  educational  choices 
than  did  the  students  of  20  years 
ago.  Students  today  are  also  more 
focused  on  preparing  for  their 
careers.  "I  think  getting  a  degree  is 
more  important  than  getting  an 
education  for  today's  students,"  he 
says.  "The  1970s,  despite  all  the 
ferment,  was  a  period  of  optimism. 
People  had  a  lot  of  faith  that 
things  were  getting  better  in  a 
broad  sense.  That's  not  true  today. 
"The  job  market  has  changed. 
Recruiters  no  longer  come  here  to 
hire  people  to  fill  generic  engi- 
neering jobs.  They  want  people  to 
be  able  to  perform  in  their  special- 
ties from  day  one.  Plus,  our  stu- 
dents must  now  compete  for  jobs 
^^^   ^^     with  laid-off  engineers,  engineers 
4^fl  from  Eastern  Europe  and  other 

,\  1  seasoned  professionals.  The  more 

A|  credentials  students  have  to 

demonstrate  their  skills  the  better, 
though  I  still  think  the  MQP  and 
the  IQP  are  the  best  evidence  stu- 
dents can  present  of  their  ability  to 
contribute  to  a  company." 


and  others  believe  further  erodes  the  flexibility 
inherent  in  the  Plan  and  encourages  students  to 
give  up  much  of  the  freedom  the  Plan  offers  them 
to  design  a  course  of  study  that  suits  their  own 
needs  and  interests.  Called  the  concentration, 
it  enables  students  to  specialize  in  a  specific  sub- 
discipline  of  engineering  or  science  by  complet- 
ing two  units  of  work  (six  courses)  in  a  focused 
academic  area  plus  an  MQP  appropriate  to  the 
concentration.  Examples  include  aerospace, 
biomechanics,  engineering  mechanics  and  other 
specialties  within  mechanical  engineering. 

"Concentrations  go  way  beyond  what  was 
ever  intended  in  the  Plan,"  Grogan  says.  "They 
are  too  specialized  for  undergraduate  work  and 


D 


"We  can  do  so  much  more. " 

think  we  need  to  step 
back  and  take  a  look  at 
where  we  are  going  here," 
Grogan  says.  "When  we 
started  the  Plan  we  had  a  clear  idea  of  what  we 
wanted  to  accomplish.  The  changes  we've  seen 
over  the  past  30  years  have  been  to  a  large  extent 
patchwork  fixes  made  in  response  to  specific 
problems.  There  is  a  need  to  ask  ourselves  what 
philosophical  approach  we  wish  to  take.  We 
should  base  that  approach  on  the  positive  experi- 
ences we've  had,  particularly  with  the  projects, 
which  have  been  incredible." 

It  is  ironic,  Grogan  says,  that  the  trend 
toward  increasing  specialization  and  diminishing 
flexibility  is  occurring  just  as  the  organization 
that  triggered  them  takes  a  giant  step  in  the 
opposite  direction.  Last  year,  the  governing  board 
of  ABET  approved  a  sweeping  new  set  of  accredi- 


Top,  a  student  project 
team  meets  with  advi- 
sor James  Demetry, 
at  left,  in  a  conference 
room  in  the  new  Project 
Center  in  the  mid- 
1970s.  Bottom,  stu- 
dents discuss  the 
results  of  a  mechanical 
engineering  MQP  with 
ME  Professor  and  Asso- 
ciate Provost  William 
Durgin  during  this 
spring's  Project  Presen- 
tation Day.  The  close 
collegial  relationship 
students  develop  with 
faculty  members 
remains  one  of  the 
strengths  of  the  Plan. 


4  i 


WPIJOURXU 


31 


Chemistry  Professor 
Stephen  Weininger  was 
asked  to  serve  on  the 
faculty  Planning  Com- 
mittee that  drafted  the 
Plan.  Nearly  30  years 
later,  he  chaired  the 
Strategic  Planning 
Steering  Committee 
that  is  helping  WPI 
reassess  its  direction. 


The  Future 


"The  faculty 
was  willing   to 
reflect  on  what 
education   is   sup- 
posed to  accom- 
plish and  then   to 
do   something 
about  it.  [They] 
need  to  assure 
themselves  and 
the   rest   of   the 
educational  com- 
munity that   they 
are   perfectly 
willing   to   do 
that  again." 
-Francis   Lutz 


tation  criteria  that  will  apply  to  all  engineering 
programs  in  the  year  2001.  In  a  marked  change 
from  the  former  criteria,  which  looked  primarily 
at  what  courses  students  take  (known  as  process- 
oriented  criteria  or  bean  counting),  the  new 
standards  attempt  to  mea- 
sure what  students  learn  and 
what  skills  and  qualities  they 
gain  (called  outcome- 
oriented  criteria). 

The  new  criteria  seek 
to  measure  many  of  the 
qualities  that  the  WPI  Plan 
is  designed  to  engender, 
including  teamwork,  prob- 
lem solving  and  communi- 
cation skills,  an 
understanding  of 
the  interactions 
between  the  work  of  tech- 
nological professionals  and 
society,  and  an  inclination 
to  lifelong  learning.  In  fact, 
WPI's  experience  with  the 
Plan  was  largely  responsible  for  its  selection  as 
one  of  two  universities  nationwide  to  be  evaluated 
this  year  under  the  new  criteria  as  part  of  a  three- 
year  pilot  study. 

Recognizing  the  need  to  capitalize  on  its 
nearly  three  decades  of  experience  with  the 
Plan,  and  hoping  to  retain  its  reputation  for  inno- 
vation, the  university  this  year  began  a  strategic 
planning  process.  Taking  its  charge  from  WPI 
President  Edward  Parrish,  who  served  as  chair- 
man of  ABET's  Engineering  Accreditation  Board 
during  the  formulation  of  the  new  criteria,  the 
Strategic  Planning  Steering  Committee  and  1 3 
subcommittees  evaluated  WPI's  role  as  an  edu- 
cational institution. 

In  its  recently  released  report,  the  Strategic 
Planning  Steering  Committee  concludes  that  the 
Plan  has  been  largely  successful  and,  in  fact,  has 
helped  transform  the  university  in  many  positive 
ways.  Still,  the  report  notes,  some  of  the  Plan's 
seminal  concepts  have  never  been  fully  imple- 
mented. "We  are  far  from  having  devolved  upon 
students  a  major  portion  of  the  responsibility  for 
learning,  from  having  implemented  a  program 
that  responds  to  individual  differences  among 
learners,  and  from  having  thoroughly  coordinated 
learning  and  doing  throughout  the  curriculum." 

The  committee  called  on  WPI  to  "reinvigo- 
rate  the  spirit  of  the  Plan"  and  to  build  upon  its 
strengths,  keeping  in  mind  the  changes  that  are 
transforming  the  world — and  higher  education 
itself.  They  noted  that  one  of  WPI's  most  impor- 
tant strengths  is  that  "we  have  undertaken  a 
major  renewal  of  our  community  in  the  recent 
past.  We  have  a  model  at  hand  that  assures  us  that 
imaginative  thinking,  cooperative  effort  and  bold 
action  will  produce  decisive  and  positive  change." 


As  the  process  of  planning  moves  forward,  Lutz 
urges  WPI  to  put  every  element  of  the  Plan  under 
the  microscope.  "These  are  all  powerful  compo- 
nents of  a  solid  educational  experience,  but  they 
will  remain  that  way  only  if  the  faculty  calls  them 

into  question,"  he  says. 

"There  will  always  be 
the  fear  that  you  could  be 
setting  the  stage  for  going 
backward  and  losing  what 
WPI  has  achieved  with  the 
Plan.  But  the  flip  side  of 
that  is  if  you  are  going  to 
move  forward  and  change 
for  the  better,  you  have  to 
be  willing  to  take  that  risk. 
If  you  are  not,  you  are 
going  to  become  stale  as  an 
institution.  The  central  ele- 
ment of  why  WPI  is  such  a 
great  institution  is  that  the 
faculty  was  willing  to  reflect 
on  what  education  is  sup- 
posed to  accomplish  and 
then  to  do  something  about  it.  The  faculty  need 
to  assure  themselves  and  the  rest  of  the  educa- 
tional community  that  they  are  perfectly  willing 
to  do  that  again.  Otherwise,  the  distinction  WPI 
has  enjoyed  will  disappear." 

Echoes  Boyd,  "We  live  in  an  era  of  technology, 
and  there  is  a  tremendous  need  to  educate  technol- 
ogists who  are  more  sensitive  to  the  consequences 
of  technology.  WPI  has  more  experience  in  evolv- 
ing a  program  that  meets  this  goal  than  any  institu- 
tion I  know.  We  need  to  take  another  look  at  the 
Plan.  For  reasons  that  I  can't  take  any  credit  for, 
it  was  way  ahead  of  its  time.  It  remains  very  solid 
today.  I  might  design  the  structure  a  little  differ- 
ently now,  but  it  would  still  have  the  same  goals, 
the  same  criteria.  We've  done  some  very  impressive 
things,  but  we  can  do  so  much  more.  This  is  the 
right  time  to  set  out  on  a  journey  to  see  where  we 
can  go  with  the  Plan." 

Stephen  Weininger,  professor  of  chemistry 
and  a  member  of  the  original  Planning  Committee, 
chaired  the  Strategic  Planning  Steering  Commit- 
tee. He  says  he  believes  the  process  of  developing  a 
new  strategic  plan  for  the  university  may,  in  fact, 
result  in  an  evaluation  of  WPI  that  goes  just  as 
deep — and  whose  results  may  prove  just  as  pro- 
found— as  the  process  that  produced  the  Plan. 

"I  haven't  felt  the  kind  of  excitement  and  antic- 
ipation I'm  sensing  now  around  campus  since  those 
heady  days  when  the  Plan  was  created,"  Weininger 
says.  "There  is  a  real  feeling  that  we  have  the 
chance  to  redefine  WPI's  purpose  and  mission.  We 
have  the  opportunity  to  build  on  what  has  made 
WPI  a  great  institution  now  for  more  than  1 30 
years,  and  to  set  a  new  course  just  as  bold  and  as 
original  as  the  one  we  established  in  1970.  It  will 
be  interesting  to  see  where  that  course  takes  us." 


32 


Spring  1997 


WPI     AT     THE     CROSSROADS 


% 


<^ 


The  Dawn  of  a  New 
Global  Era 


Editor's  Note: 

///  less  than  four  years,  atomic  clocks  around  the  world  will  tick  off' the  last  few  nanoseconds  of  the 
20th  century  and  a  new  millennium  will  officially  begin.  As  WPI  approaches  the  cusp  of  this  new 
era,  it  faces  a  host  of  challenges  and  opportunities. 

For  example,  the  university's  project-based  undergraduate  program,  the  IVJ}I  Plan,  continues 
to  provide  an  outstanding  education  to  talented  young  men  and  women  interested  in  all  manner  of 
careers.  But  one  of  the  hallmarks  of  educational  innovation  is  continual  reassessment,  and 
WI^I  will  need  to  ask  itself  whether  the  Plan  remains  the  best  approach  for 
preparing  students  for  the  challenges  of  today's  world.  In  addition, 
the  next  few  years  may  provide  an  opportunity  for  the  uni- 
versity, at  last,  to  gam  the  national  and  international 
ml        recognition  it  merits  for  the  unique  approach  to  the 
technological  education  it  pioneered. 

The  university  must  also  evaluate  the 
social  and  learning  environment  it  provides 
its  students.  Does  that  environment  offer 
enough  in  the  way  of  intellectual  stim- 
ulation, a  feeling  of  community,  an 
^  appreciation  for  diversity?  WPI  must 
come  to  terms  with  how  to  make  use 
of  the  dizzying  array  of  new  com- 
puter and  communications  technol- 
ogies to  enhance  the  way  it  delivers 
an  education  to  students.  It  must 
decide  what  kinds  of  academic 
programs — new  and  old — will  best 
meet  the  needs  of  its  students  in  the 
decades  ahead.  And,  it  must  deter- 
mine how  it  can  best  reach  out  to  the 
vcorld  of  pre-college  education  to  excite 
and  motivate  future  generations  of  tech- 
nological professionals. 
Last  winter,  WPFs  Strategic  Planning 
Steering  Committee,  aided  by  1 3  task  forces 
— more  than  60  faculty  and  staff  members  and 
students,  all  told — worked  to  draft  a  new  vision  for 
TI  and  a  set  of  goals  and  strategies  to  help  the  uni- 
versity realize  that  vision.  Along  the  way,  it  addressed 
these  and  many  other  issues  that  will  face  WPI  in  the  years 
ahead.  Its  report,  endorsed  by  the  Hoard  of  Trustees  in  May,  will  set  the 
foundation  for  a  new  capital  campaign. 
In  this  issue,  we  begin  a  series  of  articles  that  will  explore  some  of  these  same  issues,  challenges 
and  opportunities.  Our  first  topic  is  global  technological  education.  Today,  WPI  offers  students 
the  chance  to  complete  professional-level  projects  at  sites  around  the  world.  From  these  they  gain 
an  appreciation  for  other  cultures,  develop  a  new  set  of  personal  and  social  skills,  and  come  back  to 
campus  with  an  enormous  sense  of  self-confidence — qualities  that  will  become  ever  more  impor- 
tant in  a  truly  global  marketplace. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


53 


WPI      AT     THE     CROSSROADS 


With  each  revolution, 
the  world  gets  smaller. 

Computer  networks  and  communication 
satellites  now  link  professionals  at  the  far 
corners  of  the  world  in  real  time,  enabling 
products  to  be  routinely  designed,  built  and 
marketed  by  multinational,  cross-cultural 
teams.  As  the  daily  activities  of  business  and 
industry  are  played  out  more  and  more  on 
this  global  stage,  engineers,  scientists  and 
managers  must  be  prepared  to  work  with 
people  in  other  lands  and  other  cultures. 
And  companies  of  every  size  and  shape  will 
find  that  their  success  depends  on  their  abil- 
ity to  navigate  the  complex  and  highly  com- 
petitive global  marketplace.  In  this  rapidly 
shrinking,  technologically  sophisticated  and 
increasingly  interconnected  world,  a  global 
perspective  is  no  longer  an  option  for  tech- 
nological professionals — it  is  an  imperative. 

Surprisingly,  most  technological  univer- 
sities today  fail  to  give 
their  students  this  criti- 
cal edge.  The  exception 
is  WPI.  Over  the  past 
25  years,  the  nation's 
third  oldest  private 
technological  university 
has  pioneered  global 
education  for  technical- 
ly oriented  profession- 
als. Its  Global  Perspec- 
tive Program  enables 
undergraduates  majoring  in 
engineering,  science,  manage- 
ment and  the  liberal  arts  to  exper- 
ience, firsthand,  other  cultures 
and  other  ways  of  doing  business. 
When  they  travel  to  WPI  centers 
around  the  globe,  they  go  as 
working  professionals  to  do 
urgently  needed  projects  spon- 
sored by  international  corpor- 
ations and  organizations.  "No 
other  university  in  the  nation  offers  its 
students  this  opportunity,"  notes  Hossein 
Hakim,  chair  of  WPI's  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies  Division.  "That's  why  WPI 
is  widely  regarded  as  the  undisputed  leader 
in  global  technological  education." 

In  his  talk  at  WPI's  Workshop  on  Inter- 
nationalizing Science  and  Engineering  Edu- 
cation in  1992,  Ronald  L.  Zarrella  71,  now 
vice  president  and  group  executive,  North 
American  sales,  service  and  marketing,  for 
General  Motors  Corporation,  said,  "WPI  is 
uniquely  positioned  to  provide  national 
leadership  in  global  science  and  engineering 


education."  The  seeds  of  the  university's 
Global  Perspective  Program  were  planted  a 
quarter  century  ago  with  the  creation  of  the 
WPI  Plan.  The  Plan's  unique  structure  and 
required  projects  have  proven  extremely 
well-suited  to  preparing  students  for  the 
challenges  of  technological  careers.  They 
also  provide  an  ideal  framework  for  a  global 
education  program. 

Currently,  most  of  the  projects  com- 
pleted overseas  are  Interactive  Qualifying 
Projects.  Quite  often,  the  problems  that 
off-campus  project  sponsors  seek  to  solve 
require  solutions  that  cross  the  boundaries 
between  science,  technology  and  the  social 
sciences,  making  them  ideal  topics  for  mul- 
tidisciplinary  IQP  teams.  Increasingly,  stu- 
dents are  also  tackling  the  Major  Qualifying 
Project — the  capstone  experience  in  a  stu- 
dent's major  field — at  off-campus  residential 
sites.  WPI  has  a  long  history  of  offering  stu- 
dents the  opportunity  to  complete  MQPs 
that  are  sponsored  by  local  industry.  And  in 
recent  years,  residential  MQP  programs  in 
Ireland,  India  and  Puerto  Rico  have  been 
developed  in  collaboration  with  a 
number  of  corporations  in  those  loca- 
tions. Next  fall,  WPI  will  open  a  new 
residential  MQP  center  at  the  God- 
dard  Space  Flight  Center  in  Green- 
belt,  Md.  Goddard  has  a  wide  range 


ing  projects  and  seven-week  terms — along 
with  the  flexibility  of  the  WPI  curriculum, 
enable  WPI  to  provide  a  wide  range  of 
opportunities  for  students  to  complete  pro- 
ject work  at  remote  sites. 

Recent  examples  of  how  WPI  faculty 
and  students  have  taken  advantage  of  that 
flexibility  include  a  number  of  seven-week 
humanities  projects  that  have  been  com- 
pleted in  London.  In  1994,  Edmund  Hayes, 
professor  of  English,  advised  students  who 
completed  projects  in  theater.  In  1995, 
Frederick  Bianchi,  professor  of  music  (see 
page  4),  worked  with  students  completing 
projects  in  music.  Last  winter,  students 
completed  projects  in  theater  technology 
with  advisor  Susan  Vick,  professor  of 
drama/ theater. 

WPI  opened  its  first  global  project  cen- 
ter in  Washington,  D.C.,  in  1974,  and  its 
first  overseas  center  in  London  in  1987. 
Currently,  the  university  maintains  a  global 
network  of  project  sites  that  spans  four  con- 
tinents. Each  year,  more  than  200  students 
travel  to  these  sites  to  complete  IQPs, 
MQPs  and  humanities  projects.  The  pro- 
jects are  often  sponsored  by  corporations, 
government  and  social  service  agencies,  pro- 
fessional organizations,  museums  and  other 
local,  national  and  international  groups. 

WPI's  global  program  is  the  most 

extensive  of  any  technological 
university  in  the  country.  No 
WPI  believes  that  the  best  way  for  students  to  other  un;versity  offers  global 

understand  and  appreciate  other  cultures  is  to  opportunities  in  as  many  nations 

as  WPI.  And  no  other  university 
experience  them  firsthand.  Completing  a  professional-    sends  more  engineering  students 

,        ,  ,  ,  ,  .  overseas.  The  Institute  of  Inter- 

level  project  overseas  enables  students  to  experience       nationa,  Education  reported  that 

in  1993-94,  76,000  U.S.  students 
studied  abroad.  Of  these,  only 
1,100  were  engineering  students. 
That  same  year,  180  of  WPI's 
engineering  students — over  1  5 
percent  of  the  U.S.  total — 
worked  on  projects  in  other  countries.  Next 
in  line,  with  80  students,  was  the  University 
of  Illinois,  Urbana,  whose  College  of  Engi- 
neering has  about  5,500  undergraduates. 

But  WPI's  advantage  goes  beyond  sheer 
numbers.  Says  Hakim,  "The  content  of  the 


the  reality  of  living  and  working  in  another  country 
with  an  intimacy  and  power  that  no  course  or 
textbook  can  provide. " 


of  specialized  facilities  and  equipment  it  uses 
to  fulfill  its  mission  of  developing  satellites 
and  other  equipment  for  scientific  investiga- 
tions in  space  and  maintaining  spaceflight 
tracking  and  data  acquisition  networks. 

Both  the  IQP  and  the  MQP  are  typical- 
ly completed  by  small  teams  of  students,  and     international  experience  WPI  students 


each  is  equivalent  in  credit  to  three  courses. 
These  significant  projects  teach  students  to 
set  and  achieve  ambitious  goals.  Because  the 
undergraduate  program  revolves  around 
these  projects,  WPI  divides  its  academic 
year  into  four  seven-week  terms  (proven  to 
be  an  ideal  span  of  time  for  completing  a 
project).  These  two  basic  elements — qualify- 


receive  is  also  pedagogically  very  innova- 
tive." As  the  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education 
reported  in  August  1995,  the  university's 
students  receive  "an  international  experience 
unlike  any  other." 

"WPI  believes  that  the  best  way  for  stu- 
dents to  understand  and  appreciate  other 
cultures  is  to  experience  them  firsthand," 


34 


■mmiuuuMJ 


ni«mmiiir 


SPRING  1997 


I  lakim  says.  "Completing  a  professional- 
level  project  overseas  enables  students  to 
experience  the  reality  of  living  and  working 
in  another  country  with  an  intimacy  and 
power  that  no  course  or  textbook  can  pro- 
vide. It  also  immerses  a  student  in  another 
culture  more  completely — and  far  more 
effectively — than  simply  taking  courses  at 
another  university,  which  is  the  approach 
taken  by  most  technological  universities  that 
send  students  abroad." 

To  complete  their  work,  student  teams 
must  learn  how  businesses  work  in  another 
culture,  how  people  communicate,  how  one 
finds  information,  how  one  gets  around,  and 
how  one  negotiates  the  challenges  of:  daily 
life.  WPI  student  teams  are  expected  to  suc- 
cessfully complete  their  projects  and  present 
their  results  before  heading  home.  It  is  a 
trial-by-fire  experience  that  demands  much 
of  these  young  men  and  women,  but  it 
delivers  much  in  return. 

Hakim  says  that  WPI  students  who  have 
completed  projects  through  the  Global  Per- 
spective Program  report  that  their  interna- 
tional experience 

•  makes  them  appreciate  how  an  under- 
standing of  other  cultures  will  contribute 
to  their  success  as  working  professionals. 

•  gives  them  confidence  that  they  can  suc- 
cessfully live  and  work  anywhere  in  the 
world  that  their  jobs  may  take  them. 

•  profoundly  changes  and  enriches  their 
perspective  on  the  world  and  its  people. 

The  success  of  the  Global  Perspective 
Program  depends  on  a  variety  of  supporting 
programs  back  home.  For  example,  WPI 
offers  courses  of  study  in  German  and  Span- 
ish, and  through  the  Colleges  of  Worcester 
Consortium  students  have  access  to  instruc- 
tion in  many  other  languages.  WPI  also 
prepares  students  for  their  international 
project  work  through  on-campus  seminars 
and  cultural  programs,  internationally  ori- 
ented courses,  and  preliminary  project  work. 
WPI  supports  its  many  faculty  members 
who  serve  as  on-site  project  advisors  and 
global  project  center  directors  with  a  faculty 
development  program,  and  WPI  maintains 
close  contact  with  dozens  of  professionals 
and  academics  who  serve  as  advisors  and 
liaisons  at  project  center  sites. 

The  participation  and  support  of  global 
project  sponsors  are  also  crucial  to  the 
ongoing  success  and  growth  of  the  Global 
Perspective  Program.  Many  of  these  spon- 
sors have  provided  project  opportunities  for 
WPI  students  on  an  ongoing  basis;  some 
have  been  sponsoring  projects  continually 


The  Growth  Trend 

WPI's  Global  Perspective  Program 
began  during  the  1971-72 
academic  year,  when  one  student 
traveled  to  Switzerland  to 
complete  a  project.  Participation 
in  the  program  has  grown 
steadily  since  then,  as  has  the 
total  number  of  WPI  students 
who've  traveled  oft  campus 
to  complete  projects.  By 
1995-96,  that  total  had 
climbed  to  nearly  2,200. 


for  as  long  as  two  decades.  Sponsors  receive 
creative  solutions  to  real  problems  from 
third-  and  fourth-year  students  with  a  fresh 
point  of  view.  Perhaps  most  important,  they 
gain  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  they 
are  helping  prepare  a  new  generation  of 
technological  professionals  who  can  thrive 
in  the  global  marketplace. 

As  successful  as  WPI's  Global  Perspec- 
tive Program  has  been,  there  are  opportuni- 
ties to  strengthen  it  in  the  decade  ahead  and 
assure  that  the  university  retains  its  leader- 
ship in  this  critical  area  of  technological 
higher  education.  That  was  the  conclusion 
of  the  Task  Force  on  Global  Opportunities, 
one  of  the  13  reporting  to  WPI's  Strategic 
Planning  Steering  Committee.  In  its  final 
report,  issued  as  the  Journal  was  preparing 


to  go  to  press,  the  task  force  concluded  that 
instilling  a  global  awareness  into  WPI's 
students  and  faculty  "is  the  single  most 
important  change  necessary  to  achieve" 
the  university's  strategic  vision. 

The  report  recommended  that  WPI 
strive  to  remove  the  barriers  (the  cost  of 
studying  off  campus,  lack  of  clear  informa- 
tion about  global  programs,  and  scheduling 
conflicts)  that  keep  more  students  from  tak- 
ing advantage  of  global  opportunities;  invest 
more  time  and  money  in  helping  the  faculty 
develop  a  global  perspective;  and  work  hard 
to  integrate  global  issues  and  content 
throughout  the  university's  curriculum. 

Key  to  these  and  a  number  of  other  rec- 
ommendations, the  report  says,  will  be  the 
investment  of  significant  funds.  The  task 
force  recommended  the  creation  of  a  $20 
million  endowment  to  enable  all  WPI  stu- 
dents to  have  the  opportunity  to  complete 
their  projects  at  residential  sites  around  the 
world,  regardless  of  their  financial  situation. 
Other  suggestions  included  a  $1  million 
endowment  for  faculty  development,  invest- 
ments of  $100,000  each  in  two  strategically 
chosen  overseas  project  centers,  and  funds 
to  recruit  and  hire  faculty  members  with  the 
background  and  interests  to  help  bolster  the 
Global  Perspective  Program.  The  task  force 
strongly  recommended  that  the  university's 
Global  Perspective  Program  be  a  major 
focus  of  the  upcoming  WPI  capital  cam- 
paign. "This  is  WPI's  clearest  opportunity 
to  make  a  name  for  itself,  and  to  articulate 
to  the  world  (and  to  ourselves!)  what  our 
educational  values  and  mission  are,"  the 
report  said. 

You  can  find  out  more  about  WPI's 
global  academic  programs  at  the  web  site 
maintained  by  the  Interdisciplinary  and 
Global  Studies  Division.  The  URL  is 
http://www.wpi.edu/~igsd. 

—MICHAEL  DORSEY 

EDITOR'S  NOTE:  With  the  following  two 
stories  we  continue  our  coverage  of  WPI's  Global 
Perspective  Program  by  taking  you  to  England  to 
learn  about  the  experiences  of  student  teams  who 
completed  projects  at  WPVs  London  Project  Center 
in  the  fall  of  1995  and  to  meet  an  alumnus  who 
sponsored  one  oj  those  projects.  The  London  Project 
Center,  which  is  celebrating  its  10th  anniversary 
this  year,  was  the  first  of  the  university's  overseas 
project  centers;  it  is  the  model  for  the  wide  array  of 
international  project  sites  that  have  followed.  So  in 
a  real  sense,  in  1997  WPI  will  celebrate  the  end  of 
the  first  decade  of  its  highly  successful  global  project 
program,  an  initiative  that  is  likely  to  be  a  critical 
element  of  the  WPI  of  the  21st  century. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


35 


WPI      AT     THE     CROSSROADS 


Seven  Weeks  in  the 
Real  World 


HP 

he  novelty  of  big-city  life  lured 
_M_    Jennifer  Roy  '97  to  London  in 
the  fall  of  1995.  But  when  the  mechanical 
engineering  major  stopped  a  would-be 
pickpocket  in  his  tracks,  she  knew  she 
wasn't  a  small-town  girl  anymore.  She 
foiled  a  robbery  attempt  when  the  escap- 
ing thief  tried  to  push  her  turnstile  the 
wrong  way  in  an  Underground  train  sta- 
tion. He  didn't  get  far. 

Roy  and  12  classmates  got  a  taste  of  life 
in  a  foreign  city  as  residents — not  tourists — 
while  working  at  WPFs  London  Project 
Center.  They  lived  in  central  London  flats, 
jostled  with  the  straphangers  on  trains  and 
buses,  and  put  in  long  hours.  They  collabo- 
rated with  British  colleagues  in  a  warren  of 
museum  back  rooms,  in  the  laboratory  of  a 
visually  impaired  man,  in  industrial  offices 
in  a  low-income  neighborhood,  and  in  a 
grand  Victorian  building  overlooking  the 
Thames. 

In  diverse  settings  like  these,  WPI  stu- 
dent teams  act  as  consultants  for  the  organi- 
zations that  sponsor  their  projects  and  are 
expected  to  produce  professional-level  work. 
The  students  dive  into  their  research.  With- 
in seven  weeks  they  surface  with  concrete 
solutions  and  specific  recommendations 
embodied  in  a  final  report  and  presentation. 

Their  work  also  fulfills  a  major  degree 
requirement  under  the  project-based  WPI 
Plan:  most  of  the  students  who  go  abroad  do 
so  to  complete  their  Interactive  Qualifying 
Projects,  though  students  have  gone  to  Lon- 
don to  work  on  Major  Qualifying  Projects 
and  humanities  and  arts  projects,  as  well. 
The  IQP  requires  students  to  apply  tech- 
nological skills  to  understand  and  solve  a 
problem  with  social  and  ethical  implications. 

During  a  recent  term  in  London,  WPI 
students  completed  an  IQP  for  the  Institu- 
tion of  Electrical  Engineers  (IEE)  that  iden- 
tified ways  to  reduce  Britain's  world  trade 
deficit;  designed  an  exhibit  on  power  semi- 
conductors for  the  Science  Museum;  ana- 
lyzed software  and  hardware  for  visually 
impaired  computer  users  in  a  project  spon- 
sored by  the  Royal  National  Institute  for  the 
Blind  (RNIB);  and  evaluated  employment 
and  training  for  the  disabled  at  the  nonprofit 
organization  OUTSET. 


The  students  say  the  transition 
to  the  working  world  was  a  revelation.  "It's 
nothing  like  taking  classes,"  says  electrical 
engineering  major  Sahal  Laher  '97.  "Every- 
thing is  a  lot  more  professional."  Notes 
Christine  Manganis  '97,  an  electrical  engi- 
neering major  and  member  of  the  RNIB 
team,  "It  was  good  to  be  able  to  do  a  project 
that  doesn't  simply  fulfill  a  degree  require- 
ment. This  could  really  help  people." 

Demands  of  the  working  world  differed 
from  the  pressures  of  WPI.  Aerospace  engi- 
neering major  Aaron  Newman  '97  spent 
many  long  days  on  the  RNIB  project.  "It's 
a  lot  more  work  than  a  comparable  three 
courses  at  WPI,"  he  says,  but  adds,  "our 
IQP  accomplished  something." 

Between  15,000  and  30,000  British 
citizens  are  visually  impaired  and  could  be 
computer  users  given  appropriate  access, 
Newman  says.  His  group  worked  in  North 
London,  in  an  old  laboratory  at  the  home  of 
Angus  McKenzie,  a  visually  impaired  retired 
radio  engineer  with  a  colorful  past.  During 
the  Falklands  War,  McKenzie  created  decoy 
military  broadcasts.  And  he  once  solved  a 
murder  by  pinpointing  a  person's  accent  and 
location  from  an  audiotape.  He  and  several 
friends  helped  the  WPI  group  test  various 
software  packages  with  different  screen 
readers. 

Despite  careful  planning,  the  real 
world  often  presents  unforeseen  challenges 
that  require  ingenuity  and  compromise  to 
complete  projects  within  seven  weeks.  Not 
everything  went  smoothly  for  the  WPI 
students  in  the  fall  of  1995.  Plans  changed; 


projects  evolved.  Two  project 
teams  wanted  to  carry  out  surveys  and 
found  they  couldn't  locate  or  attract  enough 
participants  to  create  statistically  meaning- 
ful results.  They  reported  on  qualitative 
information  instead.  Another  group  had 
difficulty  persuading  senior  executives  in  a 
particular  industry  to  speak  with  them  to 
gather  information.  Government  agencies 
helped  fill  in  the  gaps.  And  one  project 
almost  foundered  when  its  sponsor  went 
out  of  business  and  all  the  students'  contacts 
left  the  organization.  But  the  parent  organi- 
zation took  over  and  the  new  liaison  proved 
helpful. 

The  students  generally  took  the  changes 
in  stride.  "There  are  always  things  to  over- 
come," says  Laher.  Evaluating  employment 
training  and  placement  for  the  disabled  at 
OUTSET  was  a  great  experience,  he  says, 
and  helped  him  make  many  useful  contacts. 
A  native  of  Zimbabwe,  Laher  had  visited 
England  many  times  and  was  partly  edu- 
cated there.  But  it  was  during  this  trip  that 
he  developed  his  clearest  understanding  of 
British  culture.  What  made  the  difference, 
he  says,  was  "working  with  professionals — 
the  people  who  are  out  there  and  know  what 
makes  the  British  economy  tick."  He  hopes 
to  return  to  the  United  Kingdom  to  work 
after  graduation. 

While  WPI's  real-world  projects  pre- 
sented a  challenging  pace,  Laher  says  he  rel- 
ished "having  a  chance  to  get  away  from  the 
WPI  classroom  intensity."  In  London,  he 
found  an  outlet  in  playing  soccer.  He  trav- 
eled across  the  UK  as  a  team  member  of  the 
Hurlingham  Park  Wanderers,  a  semiprofes- 


36 


SPRING  1997 


waaa 


Bmnnuman 


tje 


sional  soccer  club.  "I  had  a  good  season  with 
them,"  he  says  modestly,  having  scored  10 
goals  in  12  games. 

Other  students  spent  their  free  time  in 
more  traditional  pursuits,  including  support- 
ing the  local  pub  and  Indian  restaurant  (the 
only  establishments  open  after  office  hours 
in  their  financial  neighborhood).  They  also 
ventured  further  afield  to  Warwick  Castle, 
Stratford-upon-Avon,  Oxford,  Edinburgh, 
Wales  and  Ireland. 

"Edinburgh  has  this  really  neat  mix  of 
architecture,"  says  Newman  with 
enthusiasm.  "But  the  weather 
was  the  worst  part,"  adds  Roy, 
who  studied  Britain's  travel  and 
tourism  industry  for  her  team's 
IEE  report. 

Before  Newman  arrived  in 
London,  his  only  foreign  travel 


"Most  universities 
wouldn  't  expect  students 

to  perform  this  way. 

Here,  they  are  given  a 

challenging  project  that 

they  have  to  solve  using  a 

variety  of  resources. " 


had  been  to  Canada.  Although  he 
wanted  a  change  from  Worces- 
ter, his  foreign  language  skills 
were  poor.  London  seemed  ideal. 

"Well,  actually,"  he  says  with 
a  grin,  "you  do  have  to  learn 
another  language — British!  They 
have  the  same  words,  but  for  dif- 
ferent things."  When  someone 
gave  him  directions  that  included  a  "pelican 
crossing"  (a  pedestrian  road  crossing  marked 
by  yellow  globes),  he  knew  he  was  far  from 
Worcester. 

Language  lessons  aside,  WPI  students 
come  to  Britain  well-prepared.  In  the  term 
before  they  arrive,  student  teams  complete 
a  preliminary  qualifying  project  (PQP)  to 
identify  the  problem  they  will  tackle  and  its 
impact  on  the  sponsoring  organization. 
Through  research  and  personal  interviews, 
they  gather  data  on  the  topic  to  see  how 
similar  issues  have  been  addressed  in  the 
U.S.  The  result  is  a  proposal  that  serves  as 
the  contract  between  the  team  of  students 
and  the  sponsoring  organization. 


As  interdisciplinary  projects,  the  IQPs 
that  students  complete  usually  stretch  them 
beyond  their  major  discipline.  The  London 
projects  are  no  exception.  Newman's  group 
had  to  install  a  computer  screen  reader  that 
required  programming  additional  hardware 
— and  no  one  on  the  project  team  was  a 
computer  science  major.  Numerous  trans- 
Atlantic  calls  for  technical  support  got  them 
their  answers. 

Before  working  with  the  Science  Muse- 
um  team,  mechanical  engineering  major 


Top,  from  left,  Deborah  Thurston  '97, 
Jennifer  Kelly  '97,  Michael  Scott  '97, 
Sahal  Laher  '97  and  Jeremy  Olszewski 
'97  during  their  visit  to  Windsor  Castle. 
Bottom,  Kelly  and  Laher  at  work  on 
their  project  that  evaluated  employ- 
ment and  training  for  the  disabled  at 
the  London  nonprofit  organization 
OUTSET. 

Ben  Demicco  '97  hadn't  come  across  power 
semiconductors  in  his  course  work.  Neither 
had  his  teammates,  so  they  tracked  down  a 
professor  in  London  who  was  an  expert  on 
the  subject  and  arranged  a  tutorial.  They 
also  visited  a  factory  that  produces  the 
devices,  and  a  power  station  that  uses  them 
to  convert  power  received  from  France. 


"We  expect  students  to  have  the  basis 
for  undertaking  the  project  and  do  a  compe- 
tent job,  not  be  experts,"  says  faculty  advisor 
and  former  London  Project  Center  director 
R.James  Duckworth,  professor  of  electrical 
and  computer  engineering,  who  traveled 
with  the  students  to  London.  "They  need  to 
be  familiar  enough  with  the  field  to  explain 
it  to  generalists  and  nonengineers." 

By  the  time  students  make  their  final 
presentations,  however,  they  feel  like  experts. 
And  after  weekly  drill  sessions,  they've  also 
been  trained  to  give  expert  pre- 
sentations (without  notes)  for 
their  host  institutions  and  invited 
guests. 

"Most  universities  wouldn't 
expect  students  to  perform  this 
way,"  says  Duckworth.  "Here, 
they  are  given  a  challenging  pro- 
ject that  they  have  to  solve  using 
a  variety  of  resources."  By  the  end 
of  the  project,  he  adds,  "they've 
done  professional-level  work,  and 
WPI  has  given  them  these  skills." 
More  than  400  students  have  par- 
ticipated in  the  London  Project 
Center  since  its  inception  in  1987. 
Twice  as  many  students  apply  to 
work  on  London  projects  than 
there  are  slots  available. 

The  organizations  that  spon- 
sor WPI  projects  are  "getting 
very  good  value  for  their  invest- 
ment of  time  and  effort,"  says 
Duckworth.  They  provide  office 
space  and  support  services  for  the 
students,  plus  travel  money  if  the 
project  takes  them  out  of  central 
London.  Student  findings  often 
raise  controversial  subjects  that 
internal  reports  might  gloss  over, 
and  the  question-and-answer  ses- 
sions at  final  presentations  can  be 
quite  lively. 

"If  an  organization  didn't  think  it  would 
be  useful,  would  it  spend  its  time  and  money 
on  WPI  students?"  Duckworth  wonders.  The 
growing  number  of  organizations  that  ask  to 
take  on  additional  WPI  projects  demon- 
strates that  they  value  the  students'  work. 
And  more  WPI  students  are  eager  to 
travel  overseas,  take  on  a  big  city,  and  tackle 
real-world  problems.  "As  we  get  into  the 
next  century,  it  will  be  a  necessity  to  have 
a  global  perspective,"  Laher  says.  "There's 
so  much  going  on  between  companies  all 
over  the  world.  We  need  to  understand 
what  other  countries  do." 

—Allison  CmsoLiM 


WPI  JOURNAL 


37 


WPI      AT     THE     CROSSROADS 


"Somebody  Has  To  Help" 


Last  winter,  Henry  Strage  '54 
found  an  unexpected  visitor  in 
the  conservatory  of  his  home  in 
the  heart  of  London's  Holland  Park 
neighborhood.  A  wisteria  vine  grow- 
ing up  the  side  of  the  house  had  found 
a  space  between  the  wooden  frames  of 
his  window  and,  simply  following  its 
natural  course,  had  pushed  its  way 
inside. 

Much  like  this  determined  vine, 
Strage  doesn't  let  conventional  expec- 
tations interfere  with  the  direction  he 
wants  to  grow.  Now  retired,  he  could 
simply  play  with  his  seven  grandchil- 
dren, work  on  his  wooden  model  of 
the  H.M.S.  Victory,  or  potter  about  his 
darkroom.  But  for  Strage,  "retire- 
ment" is  merely  a  euphemism  for 
"next  career,"  one  that  often  takes  him 
out  of  his  conservatory  and  around  the 
world  as  a  philanthropist,  manage- 
ment consultant  and  teacher. 

It  wasn't  difficult  for  Strage  to 
adjust  to  early  retirement  in  1991 
from  his  position  as  director  of  the 
London  office  of  management  consul- 
tants McKinsey  &  Co.  Inc.  "It  took 
about  a  week  to  adjust  to  my  new  life 
pace,"  he  says.  "My  blood  pressure  has 
dropped  30  percent." 

Though  many  retired  manage- 
ment consultants  take  on  occasional 
teaching  or  consulting  assignments, 
few  devote  as  much  of  their  skills, 
time  and  energy  to  causes  they  feel  as 
strongly  about  as  Strage  does.  He 
teaches  and  accepts  consulting  clients,  but 
he  also  spends  at  least  a  third  of  his  time 
working  for  organizations  that  help  those 
often  overlooked  or  ignored:  the  disabled  in 
developing  countries,  residents  of  an  impov- 
erished Israeli  city,  students  seeking  further 
education.  "I  feel  very  strongly  that  some- 
body has  to  help,"  he  says,  "and  I'm  grateful 
that  I  have  the  capacity  to  do  so." 

WPI  has  benefited  from  Strage's  help  in 
a  number  of  ways.  In  recent  years,  his  sup- 
port has  gone  to  WPI's  Global  Perspective 
Program.  He  funded  several  Interactive 
Qualifying  Projects  at  the  London  and 
Bangkok  project  centers,  which  helped  bring 
the  expertise  and  energy  of  WPI  undergrad- 
uates to  bear  on  problems  posed  by  such 
nonprofit  organizations  as  Britain's  Royal 


Henry  Strage  in  Israel  at  a  square  honoring  his 
many  contributions  to  the  nation. 

National  Institute  for  the  Blind.  One  student 
team  recently  evaluated  computer  software 
and  hardware  for  blind  computer  users  (see 
previous  story).  With  Strage's  gift,  WPI 
purchased  the  personal  computers  and  the 
software  packages. 

"The  students  are  interested  in  non- 
profit work,  the  institutions  are  profoundly 
grateful,  and  the  impact  is  potentially  great," 
Strage  says.  He  hopes  other  alumni  will 
agree  to  support  more  of  these  international 
projects.  He  says  he  hopes  to  attract  other 
donors  to  fund  projects  aimed  at  helping  the 
10  percent  of  the  world's  population  that  is 
disabled. 

Strage's  interest  in  applying  WPI  student 
skills  to  nonprofit  organizations  reflects  his 
own  experiences  with  the  Inter-Action  Trust. 


Founded  in  1969,  the  trust  provides 
professional  advice  on  organization, 
structure  and  management  tactics  to 
hundreds  of  charitable  organizations 
throughout  Britain.  Advising  charities, 
however,  can  be  frustrating.  "They're 
doubly  disadvantaged,"  says  Strage. 
"They  have  to  beg  for  money,  and  they 
operate  without  a  corporate  structure, 
management  or  adequate  resources. 
These  charities  need  help  as  much  as 
any  Fonune  500  company." 

In  1986  Strage  and  his  wife  set  up 
their  own  charity,  the  Alberta  and 
Henry  Strage  Foundation,  to  provide 
seed  money  to  organizations  for  pro- 
jects designed  to  generate  gifts  from 
others,  and  to  involve  their  children 
in  the  notion  of  giving.  "In  the  charity 
world,  there's  a  lot  of  money  looking 
for  good  ideas,"  he  said.  He  hopes  his 
foundation  will  find  some. 

In  addition  to  receiving  his  phil- 
anthropy, several  charities  benefit 
from  Strage's  counsel  and  leadership 
skills.  He  chairs  the  executive  commit- 
tee of  the  International  Disability 
Foundation  (IDF)  in  Geneva,  estab- 
lished in  1992  by  former  secretary 
general  of  the  United  Nations  Javier 
Perez  de  Cuellar.  With  its  center  near 
the  Swiss  border  in  Ferney- Voltaire, 
IDF  serves  as  a  clearinghouse  for 
training,  communications  and 
resource  support  for  some  60  global 
disability  organizations,  representing 
the  blind,  deaf,  mentally  and  phys- 
ically handicapped,  and  war  victims. 

"Here  is  an  international  problem  that 
the  world  always  seems  to  find  excuses  not  to 
address,"  Strage  says.  "If  you're  mentally 
handicapped  in  Bosnia  or  blind  in  Burundi, 
you're  out  of  luck."  IDF  pools  professional 
assistance  that  can  help  identify  needs  and 
manage  projects  with  simple,  locally  based 
solutions.  For  example,  Strage  says,  "There's 
a  shortage  of  three  million  wheelchairs  in 
Pakistan.  While  they  cost  $3,000  to  $4,000  in 
the  U.S.,  we  set  out  to  design  a  solid,  usable 
wheelchair  with  a  price  under  $100." 

He  sees  wheelchair  production  as  the 
basis  of  a  new,  small-scale  industry  for 
Pakistan.  Six  prototypes  are  in  the  test  stage 
in  Gaza,  Palestine.  While  even  the  lowest 
price  represents  a  large  portion  of  a  typical 


Spring  1997 


Pakistani's  income,  Strage  remains  hopeful 
another  philanthropist  will  step  in  to  create 
a  fund  that  will  enable  users  to  lease  the 
chairs  for  a  small  monthly  payment. 

Strage  has  plenty  of  experience  combat- 
ing  poverty  on  many  fronts.  For  nearly  20 
years,  he  has  run  an  urban  renewal  program 
for  the  city  of  Ashkelon  in  Israel.  Respond- 
ing to  a  worldwide  call  (code-named  Project 
Renewal)  from  the  late  prime  minister  Men- 
achem  Begin  to  help  tight  poverty  in  Israel, 
Strage  oversees  projects  linking  the  Jewish 
community  in  Great  Britain  and  Ashkelon, 
a  city  today  of  1  ()(),()()()  people.  Each  year, 
hundreds  of  British  volunteers  have  under- 
taken hundreds  of  projects  that  respond  to 
a  broad  range  of  social  and  economic  needs. 
As  one  example,  British  dentists  make  annu- 
al visits  to  work  in  a  new  dental  clinic.  The 
breadth  of  volunteer  activities  appears  to 
have  made  a  difference  as  Ashkelon's  crime 
rate  and  jobless  numbers  decline. 

Strage  also  chairs  the  Balfour  Diamond 
Jubilee  Trust,  a  London  cultural  institution 
whose  monthly  events  feature  authors 
speaking  on  Israel  or  Jewish  topics.  Last 
year  they  collaborated  with  the  British 
Council  to  finance  a  UK/Israel  student 
fellowship  program.  Several  students  have 
already  benefited. 

Strage's  family  history  offers  clear  rea- 
sons for  his  abiding  interest  in  projects 
involving  Israel  and  his  Jewish  heritage.  His 
parents  fled  revolutionary  Russia  for  China, 
but  in  1930  another  revolution  forced  them 
to  Brussels,  Belgium.  By  1941  Hitler's 
march  across  Europe  made  them  refugees 
once  again.  They  came  to  New  York  City 
when  Strage  was  seven. 

He  became  a  U.S.  citizen,  attended 
Bronx  High  School  of  Science,  and  came  to 
WPI  on  an  athletic  grant.  A  chemical  engi- 
neer who  later  earned  an  iM.B.A.,  he  moved 
into  management  consulting  in  1962.  For 
the  next  30  years,  he  advised  chemical,  phar- 
maceutical and  petrochemical  companies  on 
how  best  to  manage  their  businesses.  But 
none  of  this  work  made  the  list  of  career 
highlights  he  wrote  for  the  yearbook  the 
Class  of  1954  prepared  for  its  40th  reunion. 
Instead,  Stage  named  the  national  and 
multinational  public  sector  institutions  he's 
helped,  such  as  the  United  Nations  and  the 
World  Bank,  along  with  the  honorary 
degree  he  received  from  WPI  in  1990. 

While  his  work  has  brought  him  great 
satisfaction,  Strage  says  his  family  has  always 
come  first.  "I  can  count  on  two  hands  the 
number  of  nights  I  missed  dinner  with  my 
family,"  he  says.  His  two  sons  and  two 


daughters  expected  him  to  attend  school 
functions,  as  well.  Strage  admits  he  brought 
a  lot  of  work  home. 

Retirement  beckoned  when  the  work 
felt  stale.  "After  doing  my  statutory  30 
years,  I  retired  because  I  thought  nothing 
different  would  happen  in  the  next  five  or 
six  years,"  he  says.  This  from  a  man  whose 
work  helped  restructure  the  government  of 
Tanzania,  who  undertook  the  first  compre- 
hensive review  of  Britain's  National  Health 
Service,  and  who  found  ways  for  the  United 
Nations  World  Food  Program  to  keep  80 
million  people  alive. 

As  he  considered  his  decision  to  take 
early  retirement,  Strage  knew  there  were 
many  directions  he  could  go.  A  client 
offered  some  sound  advice:  "Tell  people 
you're  retiring,  and  see  what  happens." 

After  leaving  McKinsey,  he  published 
a  book,  Milestones  in  Management,  that  has 
been  translated  into  Spanish  and  Japanese. 
With  his  son  Geoffrey  '85,  he  invented  The 
Selector,  an  interactive  touch-screen  com- 
puter system  they  sold  to  Sega  Enterprises. 

What  happened,  Strage  discovered  with 
genuine  surprise  and  delight,  was  that  "peo- 
ple were  really  interested  in  what  I  had  to 
say  as  an  individual  and  not  as  someone  with 
McKinsey  branded  on  my  forehead." 

His  phone  started  to  ring.  The  callers 
generally  fell  into  three  categories:  those 
seeking  Strage's  assistance  for  their  chari- 
ties, those  hoping  to  have  him  teach  man- 
agement courses,  and  those  seeking  his 
expertise  for  their  companies.  Strage  now 
runs  what  he  calls  a  "virtual"  consulting  firm 
that  links  a  network  of  experts  with  assign- 
ments they  tackle  together  by  phone,  fax 
and  electronic  mail,  often  from  Strage's 
homes  in  England,  Switzerland  and  France. 

"Without  being  clever  about  anticipat- 
ing the  niche,  I  suddenly  have  a  very  inter- 
esting consulting  practice  of  my  own,"  he 
says.  When  clients  hire  H.M.  Strage  & 
Associates,  they  benefit  from  a  customized 
team  of  expert  consulting  firms  like  McKin- 
sey &  Associates. 

But  McKinsey  was  far  from  a  large  firm 
in  London  when  Strage  arrived  there  in  1962 
for  what  he  thought  would  be  a  six-month 
assignment.  Back  then,  he  had  just  10  col- 
leagues; 30  years  on,  iMcKinsey  in  London 
employs  400.  In  his  virtual  consulting  firm, 
Strage  says,  "I  only  work  with  people  I 
know."  And  that  network  keeps  growing. 

"Out  in  the  world  beyond  McKinsey," 
he  says,  "there  are  lots  of  interesting  people 
available — retired  or  otherwise."  A  team  of 
five  in  Rome  recently  helped  Strage  with  a 


World  Food  Program  project.  Other  chal- 
lenges he's  faced  include  evaluating  the  pur- 
chase of  an  Italian  company  (while  he  speaks 
French  and  Russian,  he  doesn't  speak  Italian 
and  found  a  friend  to  help),  and  advising  on 
a  petrochemical  deal  in  China.  He's  even 
consulted  for  a  consulting  firm,  checking 
on  its  growth  and  development  strategy. 
He  is  also  active  with  financial  institutions. 

Strage's  broad  experience  in  the  corpo- 
rate world  certainly  qualifies  him  to  teach 
in  any  business  school.  "One  has  a  certain 
authority  after  being  in  the  thick  of  it  for  30 
years,"  he  says.  "I  didn't  need  case  studies; 
I  had  my  own."  In  1972  he  teamed  up  with 
professors  from  Harvard  and  Hebrew  Uni- 
versity to  found  the  Jerusalem  Institute  of 
Management,  where  he  still  lectures  senior 
executives.  He  has  taught  at  several  joint 
management  institutes,  including  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rochester  and  Swiss  University  at 
Berne;  Georgetown  and  Wharton  (in  Brati- 
slava, the  capital  of  Slovakia);  Harvard  and 
FMEDE  (a  renowned  international  business 
school  in  Geneva);  and  the  Plenchoff  Insti- 
tute in  Moscow. 

"I  guess  I  am  a  little  bit  of  a  ham,"  con- 
fesses Strage.  In  class  discussions,  he  says, 
"I  quite  like  the  interplay.  I  love  to  choose 
someone  who's  been  quiet  for  the  first  half- 
hour  and  get  them  to  run  the  rest  of  the 
class." 

He's  also  trying  out  a  new  career  as  a 
playwright.  His  subject?  Israel's  first  presi- 
dent, Chaim  Weizmann,  who  once  lived 
in  Strage's  house.  With  a  working  title  of 
Beneath  This  Roof,  the  play  features  what 
Strage  refers  to  as  the  "curious  juxtaposi- 
tions" of  such  characters  as  Weizmann, 
Winston  Churchill  and  British  foreign  sec- 
retary Arthur  Balfour,  author  of  the  1917 
Balfour  Declaration  of  Britain's  support  for 
a  Jewish  homeland  in  Palestine.  "This  is  a 
great  challenge  for  me,"  he  says.  "It  may 
never  be  produced  on  Broadway  or  in  the 
West  End,  but  someone  has  already  bought 
the  rights  for  Israel." 

Strage  seems  bemused  by  the  variety 
of  his  "post-retirement"  work,  but  he  takes 
it  all  in  stride.  "My  father  used  to  say  you 
should  plan  your  life  in  25-year  chunks — use 
the  first  25  to  prepare  for  the  next  25,  and 
then  spend  25  years  looking  for  peace  and 
quiet."  In  a  London  conservatory  graced  by 
a  tenacious  wisteria  vine,  Strage  has  found 
some  peace — until  the  next  phone  call. 

—ALLISON  CHISOLM 
Allison  Chisobn  is  a  freelance  writer  living  in 
Worcester.  Her  articles  have  frequently  appeared 
in  the  Journal. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


39 


FINAL     WORD 


Revealing  the  Wonders 
of  the  North  Atlantic 


By  Joan  killough-Miller 

As  spotlights  and  camera  sweep 
across  the  ocean  floor,  bizarre 
and  beautiful  creatures  go  about 
their  business,  paying  no  heed  to  the  divers 
who  have  penetrated  their  dark  and  secret 
world.  Two  blue  wolffish  nestle  in  a  crevice, 
peering  out  with  oafish  grins  that  seem  to 
belong  in  the  pages  of  a  Dr.  Seuss  book. 
A  flat-bodied  goosefish  swishes  by,  stalls, 
and  seems  to  disappear,  camouflaged 
against  the  sea  bed,  until  it  breaks  cover 
and  swirls  away. 

It's  hard  to  believe  that  this  is  New 
England,  just  a  few  hundred  miles  northeast 
of  Worcester.  Divers  Jonathan  Bird  '90  and 
Tom  Krasuski  '92  are  filming  off  the  coast 
of  Eastport,  Maine,  reveling  in  the  rich 
diversity  of  colorful  life  that  flourishes  in 
the  North  Atlantic. 

That's  right,  the  North  Atlantic. 
Bird  says  he  wants  you  to  revise  your  precon- 
ceptions about  his  favorite  ocean.  "Most 
people  think  of  the  North  Atlantic  as  this 
cold,  green,  murky,  polluted  cesspool,"  he 
says.  "They  say  you'd  have  to  be  insane  to 
dive  there,  that  there's  nothing  to  see." 

To  defend  the  fragile  beauty  of  the 
undersea  world,  Bird  and  Krasuski  founded 
Oceanic  Research  Group,  a  nonprofit  organi- 
zation with  this  motto:  "Dedicated  to  the 
conservation  of  the  world's  oceans  and 
marine  life  through  education."  The  more 
people  learn  about  the  world's  oceans  and 
their  inhabitants,  they  reason,  the  more 
they  will  want  to  protect  them. 

"If  people  don't  know  that  dolphins  are 
being  killed  in  nets  to  catch  tuna,  then  they 
won't  care,"  says  Bird.  "If  they  don't  know 
that  hazardous  wastes  are  being  dumped  into 
our  oceans,  they  can't  act  to  stop  it."  Krasuski 
sees  ORG's  role  as  forming  a  link  between 
researchers,  current  events  and  the  public,  by 
communicating  scientific  knowledge  in 
everyday  terms. 


The  Atlantic  wolffish,  part  of  the  rich  ecosystem  that  lies  beneath  the  North 
Atlantic,  just  a  few  hundred  miles  to  the  northeast  of  Worcester. 


The  wolffish  and  goosefish  won  an 
Emmy  for  Bird  and  Krasuski  last  year. 
The  duo  received  the  coveted  honor  for 
production  and  videography  of  an  episode  of 
Chronicle,  a  news  magazine  produced  by 
Boston  television  station  WCVB.  The  pro- 
gram, titled  "Underwater  New  England," 
brought  ORG's  message  to  millions  of  New 
England  area  viewers;  it  was  nominated  for  a 
second  Emmy  in  cinematography.  Another 
Chronicle  episode  on  sharks  aired  last  fall,  and 
proposals  for  other  television  specials  are  in 
the  works. 

Glossy  color  photos  of  North  Atlantic  sea 
creatures  began  showing  up  on  coffee  tables 
all  over  the  country  this  winter  when  Bird's 
book  Beneath  the  North  Atlantic  (Tide-Mark 
Press  Ltd.,  1996)  made  its  way  into  book- 
stores. The  large-format  book  features  120 
full -color  photographs  taken  from  Maine  to 
North  Carolina  (mostly  by  Bird)  and  75,000 
words  of  text,  also  by  Bird.  He  says  the  book 


combines  a  dive  adventure,  marine  biology 
and  art-book  photography. 

"You  see  so  many  books  about  the  trop- 
ical oceans — the  Caribbean,  the  South 
Pacific,"  Bird  says.  "People  always  think  of 
the  Caribbean  as  a  beautiful  blue  coral  reef 
area  that  is  just  wonderful,  but  they  never 
think  of  the  North  Atlantic  that  way.  Many 
people  just  don't  realize  the  incredible  diver- 
sity and  the  amazing  amount  of  life  there 
is  here  in  the  North  Atlantic."  ORG  also 
produces  a  yearly  Sharks  calendar.  Another 
calendar,  Wliales  &  Dolphins,  produced  in 
cooperation  with  the  Whale  Conservation 
Institute,  was  a  big  seller  during  last  year's 
Christmas  gift  season. 

Pretty  good  for  two  former  Raytheon  en- 
gineers who  started  out  by  traveling  around 
to  science  classes  to  put  on  slide  shows  for 
schoolchildren.  Ironically,  Bird  and  Krasuski, 
both  graduates  of  the  Electrical  and  Comput- 
er Engineering  Department,  did  not  know 


40 


SPRING  1997 


amamaasnuKMmHMUiyammimmsumtmn 


tja 


each  other  at  WPI.  Bird  received  his  bache- 
lor's degree  in  1990  and  was  interviewed  and 
hired  at  Raytheon  by  Krasuski,  who  complet- 
ed his  master's  degree  in  1992.  "We  became 
friends  and  diving  buddies,"  says  Krasuski. 
"He  inspired  me  to  try  it,  and  he  was  with 
me  on  my  first  dive."  Four  recreational  dives 
later,  they  started  ORG. 

Bird  took  up  diving  to  fulfill  WPI's  phys- 
ical education  requirement.  "By  my  senior 
year,  I  was  bombing  out  of  class  every  Friday 
and  driving  to  Cape  Ann  to  dive."  A  long- 
time photographer  and  former  president  of 
the  camera  club,  he  soon  found  that  just  div- 
ing wasn't  enough. 

"When  you  first  get  certified  as  a  diver, 
you're  thrilled  by  the  fact  that  you  can 
breathe  underwater,"  he  says.  "You're  per- 
fectly happy  to  go  to  the  local  lake,  where 
there's  absolutely  nothing  to  see,  and  go 
underwater  and  just  breathe.  When  you  get 
past  that  stage,  you  want  to  see  something 
when  you  dive.  Eventually,  I  think,  you  get 
to  the  point  where  you  take  up  some  kind 
of  an  underwater  hobby,  and  that  becomes 
the  reason  you  go  diving.  For  me,  diving  is 
a  tool,  to  get  me  where  I  need  to  go  to 
take  photographs." 

Soon  the  desire  to  know  more  about  the 
organisms  they  were  photographing  sent 
both  men  back  to  school.  Bird  started  with 
some  community  college  evening  courses  in 
marine  biology,  and  wound  up  leaving 
Raytheon  in  1993  to  enroll  full  time  in  the 
ocean  engineering  program  at  the  University 
of  New  Hampshire. 

Ocean  engineering  is  an  interface  disci- 
pline with  eccentric  subspecialties,  such  as 
designing  submarine  hulls  or  devising  instru- 
ments to  study  sea  creatures.  Bird  focused  on 
marine  biology  and  did  his  thesis  on  the  man- 
atees of  Central  Florida,  designing  an  audio 
device  that  picks  up  their  vocal  responses  to 
sound  stimuli. 

Krasuski  left  Raytheon  a  year  later  to 
begin  the  master's  program  at  UNH.  "Jon's 
into  zoology,"  he  says.  "I'm  more  of  a  physi- 
cal oceanographer."  He  specializes  in  two 
areas:  ocean  optics  and  ocean  acoustics. 
For  the  first,  he  writes  computer  algorithms 
to  help  researchers  understand  ocean  color 
as  recorded  by  satellites;  the  latter  involves 
developing  instrumentation  to  record  and 
map  underwater  sound  pressure  waves. 

While  in  school,  the  two  continued  to 
build  ORG,  which  incorporated  as  a 
Chapter  501  (c)(3)  nonprofit  environmental 
organization  in  1993.  Bird  serves  as  presi- 
dent, Krasuski  is  head  of  cinematography, 
and  Rick  Doyle,  another  friend  from 
Raytheon,  is  director  of  public  relations. 


Bird's  wife,  Kimberly  Whitworth,  handles 
legal  matters.  Through  its  Web  page 
(http://www.oceanicresearch.org/),  ORG 
publicizes  new  films  and  helps  schoolchildren 
track  the  progress  of  Chessie,  the  famous 
East  Coast  manatee.  Other  services  include 
on-location  internships,  undersea  photogra- 


film  and  have  time  left  for  discussion.  You 
don't  have  time  for  fluff,  or  die  adventures  of 
the  dive  crew.  'Ah,  zee  dive  crrrhuw  enters 
zee  wah-terrr' — diat  Jacques  Cousteau  thing. 
You  can't  do  it.  Teachers  and  distributors 
want  to  feel  they  are  getting  their  money's 
worth. 


Former  Raytheon  engineers  Tom  Krasuski,  left,  and  Jonathan  Bird  now  spend 
their  days  educating  people  about  the  beauty  and  fragility  of  the  oceans. 


phy  courses,  and  marketing  stock  photogra- 
phy and  video  footage  to  publishers  and  film- 
makers. Some  spectacular  images  of  undersea 
life  can  be  sampled  in  glorious  full  color. 
As  ORG  grows  beyond  its  roots,  the 
credits  and  awards  accumulate,  including 

"Many  people  just  don't  realize 

the  inn  edible  diversity  and  the 

amazing  amount  of  life  there  is 

here  in  the  Noith  Atlantic. " 

three  CINDY  (CINema  in  inDustrY)  awards 
and  a  "Kids  First"  endorsement  from  the 
Coalition  for  Quality  Children's  Video. 
The  current  challenge  is  breaking  into  the 
television  entertainment  market,  with  titles 
like  Sharks:  The  Real  Story,  which  will  broad- 
cast this  year  on  more  than  20  PBS  affiliates 
across  the  nation.  Written  for  adult  audi- 
ences, the  film  debunks  the  popular  image  of 
sharks  as  bloodthirsty  killers  by  revealing  the 
difficulties  ORG  encountered  trying  to  stage 
a  feeding  frenzy  for  its  educational  film 
Sharks  and  How  They  Live. 

Bird  admits  that  it's  hard  to  switch  gears 
between  the  educational  and  popular  enter- 
tainment approaches.  "A  school  film  has  to 
be  straight  science,"  he  says.  "Teachers  have 
a  40-minute  class,  and  they  want  to  show  a 


"The  big  difference  between  educational 
filmmaking  and  writing  for  television  is  that 
in  the  classroom,  the  students  have  a  teacher 
watching  them,  but  the  person  watching  TV 
has  a  remote  control.  You've  got  to  keep  the 
fun  in  there.  For  instance,  what  happens 
when  the  dive  team  does  something  wrong, 
when  the  animals  don't  cooperate  and  do 
what  you  want  them  to  do?  People  always 
enjoy  the  misadventures  of  the  dive  team. 
That's  why  Jacques  Cousteau  was  so  good — 
he  was  fun!" 

On  camera,  Bird  and  Krasuski  maintain 
a  sense  of  wonder,  even  after  all  the  hours 
they've  logged  underwater.  Krasuski  clowns  a 
bit  as  he  feeds  sea  urchins  to  an  anemone. 
Bird  compares  a  seal  to  a  puppy,  then  lies  still 
as  a  curious  seal  approaches  and  sniffs  at  the 
legs  of  his  wet  suit.  On  impulse,  Krasuski 
spears  an  urchin  on  his  diving  knife  and  feeds 
it  to  the  toothy  wolffish  (an  experiment  he 
admits  he  will  not  repeat,  after  seeing  the 
urchin  being  crushed  to  bits  between  the 
strong  bony  plates  of  the  wolffish's  mouth). 
Their  enthusiasm  impresses  even  the  smiling 
Chronicle  hosts. 

Can  it  be  that  a  WPI  gym  requirement 
has  spawned  the  next  Jacques  Cousteau?  "I've 
long  since  given  up  on  the  idea  of  getting 
rich  and  famous  from  this,"  says  Bird.  "Now 
I'm  just  hoping  to  make  a  living  doing  what  I 
love  to  do." 


i,m,Ti"r,iriTTim,,irii,irimm 


^33-303T0   WW   831S333QM 

laaais  -naaamaii  e 

HOSNHOX    X   WHMKJ    S^W 

£03X0   1I8K3-S  ***#*******#T3aS0d 


'  'I 


•4.  'suffp   • 


.  jh 


wimmionnijanBBtwninnt™ 

HBBJ^S^fSflS*! 

■. 


lilt  MAN  OALLtU  AtJ 


How  two  researchers  are  making  our  roads  safer 


—  On  Teddy  Bears  — 

"I've  always  enjoyed  creating  things  with  my  hands,  but  I've  gotten  the  greatest  satisfaction  from  making  teddy 
bears.  Each  one  can  be  unique,  with  its  own  personality.  Over  the  years,  I've  made  more  than  100  bears.  My  late 
husband,  David,  had  a  special  fondness  for  Reunion  Bear,  with  his  WPI  beanie  and  tie,  and  his  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
pin.  That  bear  has  attended  so  many  Reunions  and  other  WPI  events  over  the  years,  that  he's  become  a  mascot  for 
David's  class,  the  Class  of  1940.   He's  come  to  symbolize  the  special  place  I  have  in  my  heart  for  WPI." 

—  On  Planned  Giving  at  WPI  — 

"I  hope  my  teddy  bears  will  continue  to  bring  joy  to  others  for  many  years  to  come.  I  like  to  think  of  them  as 
part  of  my  legacy.  That's  also  the  way  I  feel  about  the  charitable  gift  annuity  I  established  at  WPI.  The  gift  ful- 
filled a  dream  that  David  and  I  shared  to  create  a  scholarship  fund  at  the  university  to  help  students  from  north- 
ern Worcester  county  who  share  David's  interests  in  ham  radio  and  mechanical  engineering.  At  the  same  time, 
it's  a  great  comfort  to  know  that  my  gift  will  provide  me  guaranteed  payments  four  times  a  year  for  the  rest  of 
my  life.  Imagine  having  a  reliable  income  stream  at  the  same  time  that  I'm  supporting  the  school  that  David 
and  I  loved  so  much.   I  don't  think  I  could  have  crafted  a  better  way  to  give  to  WPI." 

If  yon  would  like  to  join  Ollie  Knniholm  and  220  others  who  are  enjoying  the  many  benefits  of  planned  giving  at  WPI, 
please  contact  Liz  Siladi,  Director  of  Planned  Giving,  at  1-888- WPI  GIFT. 


tuamsamaim 


Bill 


MM 


Vol  l  \ll   C,  NO.  2,  Si  mmik  199: 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


Stirring  the  Pot  by  Michael  11 '.  Dorsey 

A  descendent  of  Congregational  missionaries,  Carl  Clark  says  he  inherited 

a  desire  to  change  things  that  sometimes  gets  him  into  trouble.  For  more 

than  30  years,  he's  been  fighting  to  change  the  face  of  automotive  safety. 

Page  5 

Building  a  Forgiving  Highway  Ay  Michael  W.  Dorsey 

With  steel,  plastic,  imagination  and  technical  know-how,  Provost  John 

Carney  designs  widely  used  devices  that  protect  vehicles  and  their 

occupants  from  the  hazards  that  lurk  along  America's  roadsides. 

Page  12 

aej  by  Allison  Chisolm 

His  career  at  WPI  has  spanned  the  modern  age  of  computers,  from  punch 

cards  to  the  World  Wide  Web.  Along  the  way  he's  been  a  quiet,  though 

sometimes  intimidating,  mentor  to  hundreds  of  students. 

Page  16 

The  Golden  Age  of  Hacking  by  Joan  Killough-Miller 

Back  in  the  days  before  windows  and  icons,  a  close-knit  band  of  students 

devoted  their  days  and  nights  to  learning  the  intricacies  of  Fortran  and  the 

DEC- 10.  In  the  process,  they  learned  a  little  bit  about  life — and  themselves. 

_  Page  20 

A  Shortcut  Into  Computer  History  by  Bonnie  Gelbwasser 

One  day  last  winter,  Paul  Green  was  just  another  student  struggling  to 

finish  a  project.  A  few  days  later,  he  was  a  national  media  star.  What  made 

the  difference  was  his  discovery  of  a  major  software  bug. 

Page  24 

DEPARTMENTS 


J 


Advance  Word  A  Man  for  All  Seasons,  By  Michael  W.  Dorsey.  Page  2 

Letters    Thoughts  on  the  Plan,  Keeping  the  Millenial  Faith.  Page  3 

WPI  at  the  Crossroads  Managing  in  the  Age  of  Technology,  By  Amy  L.  Marr  '96.  Page  28 

Final  Word  Student  Projects  Result  in  Medical  Advances,  By  Bonnie  Gelbwasser  and  Ruth  Trask.  Page  32 

Front  Cover:  Photo  by  Frank  Cezus/FPG  International  LLC.  Stories  on  pages  5  and  1 2. 


Staff  of  the  WPI  Journal:  Editor.  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelbwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask  ' 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  chairman,  Kimberly  A.  (Lemoi)  Bower-,  '90,  James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firlajr.  '60,Joel  P.  Greene  '69, 

William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  \.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  Harlan  li.  Williams  '50  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  by  the  Office 

of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Vt.   Printed  in  the  U.S.  \ 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  oj  the  editors  or  official  WPI  politics.  (I ,  it  elcome  letters  to  the  editoi  .  Iddress  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 

WPlJourn.il,  WPI.  100  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  Ml  01609  2280*  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  Fax:  (508)  831-6004*  Electronic  Mail,  wpi  journal@wpi.edu  •  World  Wide  Web: 

http://www.  wpi.edu/+Joitmal/  •  Postmaster:  Ifundeliverable,  please  vend  Form  ?  5  79  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  /  991  II  u  i  i  ter  Polytechnic  Institute. 


ADVANCE     WORD 


A  Man  for  All  Seasons 


On  July  10,  WPI  lost  one  of  its  best 
friends.  Sam  Mencow  '37,  who 
died  of  cancer,  was  the  volunteer 
every  organization  dreams  of. 
It  would  be  impossible  to  tally  the  hours 
he  devoted  to  his  alma  mater,  so  numerous 
were  they,  and  just  as  impossible  to  measure 
the  impact  his  service  had  on  the  success  of 
the  university  and  its  alumni  association. 

But  Sam's  service  to  WPI  was  most 
remarkable  because  he  gave  it  freely,  with- 
out expecting  anything  in  return.  He  did  it 
because  he  loved  WPI  and  because  it  was  a 
fundamental  part  of  his  nature.  "Sam  was  a 
truly  selfless  person,"  Rabbi  Sigma  Coran 
said  at  Sam's  funeral.  "He  would  say, 
'What  can  I  do  to  help?'  Pure  and  simple. 
And  even  when  he  became  sick,  he  didn't 
want  to  stop  helping  others.  He  didn't  feel 
that  was  an  excuse." 

Sam  Mencow  didn't  have  room  in  his 
life  for  excuses;  he  was  too  full  of  energy, 
ideas  and  dreams.  He  was  born  in  Worces- 
ter in  1917,  the  fourth  of  the  seven  children 
of  Russian  immigrants  David  and  Ida  Men- 
cow. An  extremely  bright  child,  he  graduat- 
ed from  high  school  when  he  was  16.  He 
enrolled  at  WPI  to  study  electrical  engi- 
neering and  graduated  cum  laude.  Opportu- 
nities for  engineers  were  lean  in  the  pre- 
War  years,  and  for  a  time  he  worked  as  a  gas 
station  manager,  a  salesman  in  an  electrical 
supply  store,  and  a  machinist. 

In  1940  he  became  a  civilian  employee 
of  the  Air  Force,  serving  as  head  procure- 
ment inspector  for  war  material  in  Boston. 
He  signed  up  for  active  duty  in  1943  and 
flew  as  a  navigator  in  heavy  bombers  over 
Europe.  After  the  war,  he  was  hired  as  a 
draftsman  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  in  Worces- 
ter, where  he  spent  the  rest  of  his  career. 
He  was  soon  made  an  engineer  in  the  boiler 
division,  but  not  long  after  he  joined  the 
sales  office.  From  that  point  on  he  devoted 
himself  to  marketing,  rather  than  designing, 
Riley  products.  He  retired  in  1982  as  assis- 
tant vice  president  for  marketing. 

When  he  talked  about  his  years  at  Riley, 
it  was  clear  that  they  were  enjoyable  and 
rewarding  and  that  he  pursued  his  work  with 


/#^, 


"Sam  was  a  truly  selfless  person. 

He  would  say,  ''What  can  I  do  to 

help?''  Pure  and  simple. " 

— Rabbi  Sigma  Coran 

the  same  vigor  and  dedication  that  marked 
all  of  his  activities.  But  he  was  not  one  to 
dwell  too  long  on  his  own  achievements, 
preferring  to  revel  in  the  accomplishments  of 
others.  It  was  only  after  his  death  that  many 
friends  learned  that  he  had  once  risked  his 
life  by  diving  down  a  flight  of  stairs  to  tackle 
a  gunman  who'd  shot  three  Riley  senior  exec- 
utives— including  Sam's  boss. 

Sam  had  long  been  involved  in  the  activ- 
ities of  his  WPI  class,  and  after  retirement 
he  threw  himself  into  alumni  affairs  with  a 
passion.  With  classmate  Gordon  Crowther, 
he  chaired  the  class's  major  Reunions.  As 
class  secretary  and  later  class  president,  he 
sat  down  at  his  manual  typewriter  and  wrote 
beautifully  crafted  and  devilishly  humorous 
class  newsletters.  He  and  his  wife,  Bea,  were 
active  in  the  Tech  Old  Timers.  He  served 
on  the  Alumni  Council  and  the  Alumni 
Association's  Executive  Committee,  and 
gave  many  hours  of  service  to  Executive 
Committee  subcommittees — including 
those  that  drafted  an  association  master  plan 


and  conducted  the  first  major  alumni  survey. 

For  16  years,  he  was  a  member  of  the 
Alumni  Publications  Committee,  chairing  it 
for  nearly  10  years.  He  presided  over  the 
committee's  two  yearly  meetings  with  style 
and  good  humor,  but  that  was  just  the 
beginning  of  his  service  to  WPI's  alumni 
publications.  He  met  regularly  with  the  edi- 
tors and  writers  of  the  Wire  and  Journal, 
bringing  them  news  tidbits,  story  ideas  and 
truckloads  of  encouragement.  He  never 
missed  an  opportunity  to  trumpet  their 
work  to  anyone  who  would  listen,  and  he 
did  everything  he  could  to  nurture  and  pro- 
tect the  alumni  association's  periodicals. 

Sam  modestly  accepted  the  accolades  of 
the  alumni  association,  including  the  Her- 
bert F.  Taylor  Alumni  Award  for  Service 
and  the  Tech  Old  Timers  Distinguished 
Service  Award.  His  favorite  honor  was  his 
election  to  Skull  in  1994,  when  he  was  77. 
He  gladly  joined  the  student  inductees  for 
their  initiation  rituals  in  the  wee  hours  of 
the  morning  and  relished  the  chance  to 
spend  time  with  his  fellow  Skull  "alumni." 

With  the  many  hours  he  spent  at  WPI 
over  the  years,  one  might  wonder  if  by 
serving  his  alma  mater,  he  neglected  his 
family.  Nothing  could  be  farther  from  the 
truth.  His  siblings  describe  Sam  as  their 
"pillar  of  strength."  In  his  later  years,  he 
devoted  himself  to  a  brother,  who'd  lost  his 
eyesight,  and  his  wife.  "Sam  was  a  source  of 
dependability  to  every  family  member,  and 
would  come  through  even  at  the  expense  of 
other  things  that  were  important  to  him," 
Rabbi  Coran  said. 

He  was  especially  devoted  to  Bea,  his 
wife  of  57  years.  They  met  at  WPI  and  were 
married  in  1939.  When  he  became  sick,  Sam 
wanted  to  stay  at  home  as  long  as  he  could, 
and  Bea  made  that  possible  by  caring  for 
him  for  more  than  nine  months  and,  in  Rab- 
bi Coran's  words,  "doing  more  than  one 
would  think  possible." 

Sam,  himself,  did  more  for  the  people 
and  institutions  he  loved  than  most  of  us 
would  think  possible.  With  his  death,  he  left 
a  void  that  can  never  be  filled. 

—MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


SUMMER  1997 


.Ak 


LETTERS 


TO  THE  EDITOR: 

As  a  fourth-generation  WP1  graduate 
(great-grandfather  Albert  K.  Fay, 
Class  of  1895;  grandfather  Luther  B. 
Martin  '25;  father  Christopher  F.  Martin 
'53;  brother  James  F.  Martin  '88),  I  take 
pride  in  WPI's  history.  Unfortunately,  I  am 
very  concerned  about  its  future. 

In  general,  I  thought  your 
series  on  the  WIM  Plan  ("Mira- 
cle at  Worcester,"  October 
1996;  "The  Best  Laid  Flans," 
Spring  1997)  was  informative 
and  fair.  While  1  don't  feel  I 
participated  in  the  Plan  as  it 
was  originally  designed,  1  was, 
through  my  brother's  tenure, 
privy  to  the  changes,  which  in 
my  estimation,  brought  about  its  demise. 

As  for  my  own  experience,  I  did  not 
feel  my  IQP  and  Sufficiency  were  taken 
seriously,  and  certainly  did  not  capture  the 
spirit  that  motivated  their  design.  My 
MQP,  on  the  other  hand,  played  a 
pivotal  role  in  my  decision  to  attend 
graduate  school,  one  of  the  most 
important  decisions  I  have  ever  made. 

I  suppose  I  take  my  opinion  of  the  cur- 
rent Plan  from  Professor  Emeritus  Jack 
Boyd.  I  hold  Professor  Boyd  in  the  highest 
esteem.  When  I  was  working  toward  m\ 
M.S.  at  WPI,  he  gave  a  talk  on  the  state  of 
the  Plan.  Any  attempt  I  could  muster  to 
explain  how  I  feel  about  the  WPI  curricula 
would  pale  in  comparison  to  his  words: 

"Another  critical  part  of  the  environ- 
ment at  WPI  is  that  we  seem  to  have  no  his- 
tory of  the  last  20  years,"  he  said.  "It  is  as 
talking  to  children  to  discuss  educational 
concepts,  needs  and  opportunities  with  most 
of  our  younger  (and  some  of  our  older)  fac- 
ulty. They  have  no  insight  into  educational 
values  and  process;  they  want  simply  to 
replicate  their  own  experience.  They  have 
no  idea  of  the  goals,  criteria  and  process  of 
the  last  20  years. 

"The  level  of  conversation  for  the  most 
part  is  what  to  put  into,  or  take  out  of  a 
course  or  a  curriculum,  or  what  are  the  cur- 
rent needs  and  fads  of  industry.  This  super- 
ficiality is  due  in  great  part  to  the  fact  that 
our  young  faculty  have  no  idea  what  the 
WPI  Plan  was.  We  trumpet  the  notion  that 
it  is  in  place,  when  in  fact  the  metaphysical 
and  pedagogical  benchmarks  were  razed  a 
decade  or  more  ago,  and  we  have  left  only 
some  half-ruined  structures,  the  MQP,  IQP, 


Thoughts 
on  the  Plan 

1\ 


"The  current  [tenure]  system  leads 
to  professors  who  are  so  concentrated 

on  publishing,  they  are  ill-prepared  to 
teach.  I  have  met  few  who  have  done 

both  well. "—Richard  Martin '91 


"I  was  pleased  to  hear  that 
teaching  is  still  valued  more  highly 
at  WPI  than  at  most  any  other  leading 
technical  university." 

—Howard  B.  Bernard  '86 


etc.,  with  no  life  in  them.  In  many  respects 
we  have  the  worst  of  both  worlds,  neither 
the  discipline  of  a  traditional  program  or  the 
flexibility  of  the  original  WPI  Plan." 

I  don't  have  a  sound  tooting  on  which 
to  discuss  the  details  of  the  Plan,  and  how 
to  improve  it.  The  real  reason  I  write  is  to 
make  two  points  that  have  troubled  me  since 
my  years  as  a  graduate  student.  It  was  during 
those  years  that  I  realized  that  the  current 
tenure  system,  in  effect,  encourages  poor 
teaching.  The  need  to  publish  and  to 
acquire  research  moneys  forces  professors 
to  lower  the  value  and  priority  they  place 
on  teaching 

To  me,  Professor  Boyd  exemplified  the 
ideal  professor.  He  was  dedicated  not  only 
to  academic  pursuit,  but  more  importantly 
and  passionately,  to  the  study  of  how  to 
teach.  I  regard  the  tenure  system  as  back- 
wards; rather  than  being  free  to  teach  (i.e., 
receive  tenure)  only  after  one  has  demon- 


strated the  ability  to  adequately  research  and 
publish,  one  should  be  free  to  perform 
research  only  after  one  has  demonstrated 
the  ability  to  adequately  teach.  It  is  my  con- 
tention that  the  current  system  leads  to  pro- 
lessors  who  are  so  concentrated  on  publish- 
ing, they  are  ill-prepared  to  teach.  I  have 
met  few  who  have  done  both  well. 

Finally,  as  mentioned  in  the  corollarj 
to  the  Spring  1997  Plan  article,  I  too  am 
concerned  about  how  well  WPI  teat  li- 
es fundamentals.  Basic  engineering 
mathematics,  for  example,  forms  the 
foundation  upon  which  all  practical 
engineering  skills  are  built.   There  is  far 
too  little  emphasis  given  to  mathematics. 
Perhaps  Galileo  said  it  best:  "Philosophy 
is  written  in  this  one  grand  book — I  mean 
the  Universe — which  stands  continually 

open  to  our  gaze,  but  it  cannot 
be  understood  unless  one  first 
learns  to  comprehend  the  lan- 
guage and  interpret  the  char- 
acters in  which  it  is  written.  It 
is  written  in  the  language  of 
mathematics." 

Richard  Martin '91 

worcester,  mass. 

to  the  editor: 

I  have  been  away  from  the  Plan  for  over 
10  years  now ,  but  at  one  time  I  was 
closely  involved  in  the  struggle  to  pre- 
serve it.  So  I  found  Part  2  of  your  series 
"The  Story  of  the  WPI  Plan"  (Spring  1997) 
very  interesting  reading. 

But  I  had  a  more  personal  connection  to 
the  article  than  most  readers,  as  I  wrote  the 
Newspeak  editorial  "We've  Been  Lied  to  and 
Now  the  Plan  Is  Dead,"  which  you  cited  in 
your  article. 

I  was  one  of  many  students  proud  to  be 
associated  with  top-flight  teachers  at  WPI — 
teachers  like  Jack  Boyd  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering and  Tom  Keil  in  physics.  Because 
the  Plan,  as  it  was  then  configured,  support- 
ed their  efforts  to  be  good  teachers  (which 
many  universities  fail  to  do),  I  struggled  to 
defend  it. 

Many  of  the  editorials  I  wrote  for 
Newspeak  during  1985,  when  I  was  editor-in- 
chief,  were  directed  toward  preserving  the 
Plan  and  encouraging  everyone  to  become 
involved  in  discussions  about  its  future.  But 
I  felt  as  though  the  outcome  of  the  battle 


WPI  JOURNAL 


had  been  carefully  engineered  long  before 
the  issues  were  made  public. 

By  1986,  as  ex  officio  associate  editor,  I 
continued  to  write  the  occasional  editorial. 
"We've  Been  Lied  to  and  Now  the  Plan  Is 
Dead" — perhaps  one  of  my  strongest  state- 
ments— was  from  that  period.  As  the  title 
indicates,  I  felt  the  battle  to  save  the  Plan 
had  been  lost  by  then. 

But  after  reading  your  article,  I  find  my 
interest  in  the  academic  atmosphere  at  WPI 
rekindled.  While  I  continue  to  believe  the 
Plan  before  the  mid-1980s  changes  was  an 
outstandingly  strong  educational  program, 
I  see  indications  that  teaching  and  whole- 
brained  intellectual  development  are  still 
valued  at  WPI.  I  hope  I'm  correct.  If  I  am, 
WPI  may  regain  some  of  the  luster  it  lost,  in 
my  view,  when  the  Competency  Exam  was 
eliminated  and  the  grading  system  was  mod- 
ified for  conformity. 

I  was  pleased  to  hear  from  my  friend 
John  Rulnick,  who  last  year  accepted  a  posi- 
tion as  assistant  professor  of  electrical  and 
computer  engineering  at  WPI,  that  teaching- 
is  still  valued  more  highly  at  WPI  than  at 
most  any  other  leading  technical  university. 
I  conclude  that  WPI  has  made  a  renewed 
commitment  to  a  pro-teaching  philosophy,  a 
move  I  applaud  with  gusto. 

As  Jack  Boyd  said  in  your  article,  "We 
live  in  an  era  of  technology,  and  there  is  a 
tremendous  need  to  educate  technologists 
who  are  sensitive  to  the  consequences  of 


LETTERS 


technology."  And  if  WPI  can  continue  to 
attract  and  retain  technically  skilled  teach- 
ers, who  have  strong  capabilities  in  many 
areas  within  and  outside  their  specialties, 
then  my  alma  mater  may  be  on  its  way  to 
becoming,  once  again,  an  institution  that 
provides  high-quality  technological  educa- 
tion with  a  conscience. 

HOWARD  B.  BERNARD  '86 
WEST  SPRINGFIELD,  MASS. 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

The  series  on  the  WPI  Plan  by 
Michael  Dorsey  constituted  the  best 
articles  published  in  the  Jo umal  in 
the  19  years  I  have  been  receiving  this  peri- 
odical. As  a  high  school  student  in  1973, 
interested  in  engineering,  the  revolutionary 
nature  of  the  Plan  attracted  me  to  WPI  over 
many  "traditional"  programs,  such  as  those 
at  RPI  and  VPI.  The  ability  to  self-start  and 
work  on  projects  as  part  of  an  undergraduate 
education  were  integral  to  my  future  career 
responsibilities. 

Yes,  the  seven-week  term  was  intense, 
especially  since  the  exams  tended  to  be 
bunched  together.  The  commitment 
required  to  succeed  and  the  50  hours  of 
studying  each  week  stood  me  in  good  stead 
for  the  "crunch  time"  that  so  often  occurs  in 
the  "outside  world."  It  was  also  important  to 
have  fun  and  outlets  such  as  the  Goat's  Head 
Pub  and  Spree  Day  were  key  to  good  morale. 


I,  too,  was  saddened  by  the  closure  of 
the  Plan  in  1986.  Loss  of  the  Competency 
Exam  and  Intersession,  and  the  return  to  a 
"normal"  grading  system,  removed  many  of 
the  positive  concepts  that  attracted  me  to 
WPI  in  the  first  place.  Yes,  the  Comp  was 
hard,  but  I  am  glad  to  have  gone  through 
the  experience.  And  no  one  can  forget  a 
two-week  experience  with  Doc  Wagner  in 
the  Maine  woods  in  winter!  Not  to  mention 
the  fact  that  having  to  provide  a  proper  and 
clear  explanation  of  the  WPI  Plan  during 
job  interviews  built  character. 

So,  kudos  on  an  excellent  series! 

Chris  James  78 
New  Hartford,  Conn. 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

The  two  WPI  Plan  special  issues  were 
exciting  and  well-organized,  bring- 
ing back  vivid  memories  of  the  Plan 
and  the  people  who  worked  for  it  and  with 
it.  You  and  your  staff  deserve  congratula- 
tions and  thanks  for  an  outstanding  service. 

Kay  W.  Draper 

EDITOR'S  NOTE:  Draper  taught  public 
speaking  at  WPI  from  1973  to  1985.  "'During 
those  years,  "she  says,  "I  was  privileged  to  teach 
some  marvelous  young  men  and  women,  and  it 
■would  he  a  joy  to  hear  from  some  of  them. " 
CoiTespondence  can  be  sent  to  her  at  Shindagin 
Road,  Wilmot  Flats,  NH,  03287. 


Keeping  the  Millennial  Faith 


TO  THE  EDITOR: 


I  was  pleased  to  note  in  the  Spring  1997 
issue  two  references  to  the  new  century 
and  millennium  as  beginning  in  2001. 

In  "The  Class  of  Aught  Aught,"  Joe 
Parker  noted  that  "the  last  class  in  the  20th 
century  will  graduate  in  June  2000." 

In  "A  New  Global  Era,"  Michael 
Dorsey  wrote  that  "in  less  than  four  years 
clocks  will  tick  off  the  last  seconds  of  the 
20th  century  and  a  new  millennium  will  offi- 
cially begin." 

The  WPI  Journal  has  been  consistent 
in  this.  In  the  Winter  1990  issue,  it  was 
stated,  "In  only  10  years  a  new  millennium 
comes  to  pass."  I  check  millennium  refer- 
ences carefully. 

As  an  old  calendar  buff,  I  am  dismayed 
at  the  media's  wide  acceptance  of  the  notion 


of  the  year  2000  being  the  beginning  of  the 
next  century  and  millennium.  For  example, 
Time  magazine,  in  a  response  to  a  letter  I 
wrote  to  the  editor,  defended  the  "decade  of 
the  '90s"  concept  as  defining  not  only  style 
and  pop  culture,  but  the  whole  calendar.  An 
editorial  in  the  Cape  Cod  Times  derides  the 
"small  legion  of  the  faithful"  as  "intransi- 
gents" who  do  not  accept  the  zero  year  as 
the  beginning  of  a  decade.  The  author  of  a 
letter  on  this  subject  to  the  Cape  Cod  Times 
was  dismissed  as  "coming  out  of  the  wood- 
work." The  Times  even  derided  Noah  Web- 
ster for  "confusing  things"  when  he  defined 
a  decade  as  the  years  1  to  10. 

The  front  page  of  The  New  York  Times 
for  Jan.  1,  1901,  is  in  front  of  me.  The  top  of 
the  right  hand  column  is  devoted  to  a  story 


celebrating  the  beginning  of  the  20th  cen- 
tury on  that  day.  If  the  Cape  Cod  Times  is 
to  believed,  the  20th  century  is  to  have  just 
99  years. 

This  issue  needs  airing  and  publicity, 
but  the  media,  in  the  service  of  our  pop 
culture,  is  a  most  awesome  force.  Writers 
whom  I  respect,  like  William  Safire  and 
Stephen  Jay  Gould,  are  well  aware  of  the 
calendar  problem,  but  seem  to  shrug  at  the 
big  parties  to  come  on  Dec.  3 1,  1999,  say- 
ing, in  effect,  that  it  is  all  part  of  life's  rich 
pageant. 

Thanks  to  the  Journal  for  keeping  the 
faith! 

Russell  A.  lovell  Jr.  '40 
Sandwich,  Mass. 


Summer  1997 


ihhihiI minimum  i  iii-nramniif*!— ~"*—"— 


sat 


'eideveloped  a  novel  way  ofetudying  the  workinge  of  the  cell. 

'Jmpbdinvent  dynamic  flight  simulation  and  trained  X- 15  pilots  and  Mercury  astronauts  for  their 
I  helped  lay  the  groundwork  for  the  Consumer  Product  Safety  Commission  when  the  idea 
of  product  safety  was  in  its  infancy.  But  Carl  Clark  s  most  lasting  legacy  is  his  pioneering  work  in  auto 
safety.  From  the  first  working  airbag  restraint  system,  to  safer  car  windows,  to  such  forward  looking 
ideas  as  airbag  bumpers,  hes  worked  tirelessly  to  reduce  the  carnage  on  American  roadways. 


By  Michael  dorsey 


arl  Clark  '45  doesn't  hesitate  to  admit  that  he's 
<^J  something  of  a  troublemaker.  For  more  than 
30  years,  he's  made  trouble  for  industries  and  other 
institutions  that  have  the 
power  to  make  people's 
lives  safer,  but  don't  use  it. 
Appalled  by  the  millions 
of  needless  deaths  and 
injuries  that  have  occurred 
in  those  three  decades, 
he's  fought  for  safety  in  the  face  of  the  indifference 
and  inactivity  of  organizations  that  were  often  too 
concerned  with  the  quest  for  profits,  too  mired  in 
bureaucratic  red  tape,  or  too  bound  up  by  political 
pressure  to  devote  themselves  to  protecting  lives. 


t^ 


0 


A, 


Stirring  the  pot 


44 

We  pushed 

ourselves  right 

up  to  the  limits. 

I  was 

unconscious 

on  the 

centrifuge 

perhaps 

1 0  times. 


♦♦ 


Clark's  interest  in  safety  crystallized  in  the 
mid-1960s  when,  as  a  researcher  at  the  Martin 
Company  in  Baltimore,  he  developed  the  first 
working  automotive  airbag  safety  system  and 
conducted  the  earliest  public  experiments  that 
demonstrated  that  the  new  technology  could  save 
lives.  When  the  automotive  industry  sought  to 
discredit  his  work,  he  persevered  in  promoting  the 
technology  in  public  forums.  His  persistence  is 
probably  an  important  reason  that  airbags  are 
found  in  virtually  all  cars  made  today. 

The  automotive  airbag  research  was  just  one 
element  of  a  long  and  amazingly  diverse  career 
that  has  taken  Clark  to  leading  edge  of  such  fields 
as  optics,  flight  simulation,  consumer  protection, 
satellite  communications  and  automotive  safety. 
He  has  earned  degrees  in  physics  and  zoology, 
has  taught  physiology,  safety  and  accident  recon- 
struction, and  has  conducted  research  on  such 
wide-ranging  topics  as  biological  pigments, 
aviation  medicine  and  the  biological  effects  of 
high-energy  radiation.  Throughout  his  career, 
the  glue  that  has  bound  his  many  interests  and 
activities  has  been  his  abiding  concern  for  the 
health  and  welfare  of  people. 

Clark  attributes  his  sense  of  social  responsi- 
bility and  his  willingness  to  persevere  in  the  face 
of  daunting  odds  to  his  family  history.  He  says 
ancestors  going  back  at  least  three  generations  on 
both  sides  of  his  family  tree  were  Congregational 
missionaries  stationed  around  the  world.  "So  this 
sense  of  trying  to  change  things  is  in  the  family — 
we're  busybodies,"  he  says.  "It  gets  us  into  trouble 
frequently,  but  it  leads  us  into  interesting  things." 

Clark's  father  became  an  electrical  engineer, 
rather  than  a  missionary,  but  with  his  inter- 
national background  (he  was  born  in  Japan),  he 
ended  up  in  Asia  as  an  engineer  with  General 
Electric's  international  division.  Clark  was  born 
while  his  family  was  in  Manila.  Two  years  later, 
his  father  died  and  his  mother  moved  the  family 
to  Vermont,  where  they  had  ancestral  roots. 

In  high  school,  Clark  became  interested  in 
science  and  mathematics  and  enrolled  at  WPI 
when  the  school  offered  him  a  scholarship.  To 
earn  money  for  expenses,  he  worked  as  a  night 
clerk  in  a  funeral  home,  a  job  he  says  may  have 
contributed  both  to  his  developing  interest  in 
biology  and  his  empathy  for  people  in  need. 
Having  started  out  to  be  a  mechanical  engineer,  he 
switched  his  major  to  physics,  with  the  intention  of 
going  on  to  do  graduate  work  in  biology. 

After  graduation,  he  became  a  lab  assistant  at 
Amherst  College,  where  he  also  took  undergraduate 
and  graduate  biology  courses  (a  subject  not  taught 
at  WPI)  and  broadened  his  background  in  the 
humanities.  He  spent  the  next  summer  studying  at 
the  Woods  Hole  Marine  Biological  Laboratory  and 
then  enrolled  at  Columbia  University  as  a  graduate 
student  in  zoology. 

For  his  thesis  work,  he  studied  the  physiology 


of  the  living  cell  by  looking  at  the  streams  of 
molecules  that  enter  and  leave  it.  "I  was  trying  to 
learn  about  the  dynamic  chemistry  of  the  cell,"  he 
says,  "something  that  I  still  think  will  be  valuable 
in  identifying  the  cause  of  many  illnesses." 

Clark's  graduate  research  resulted  in  articles  in 
the  international  journals  Science  and  Archives  of 
Biochemistry  and  Biophysics.  In  1951,  he  accepted  an 
appointment  as  an  assistant  professor  of  zoology  at 
the  University  of  Illinois,  where  he  taught  for  five 
years.  "I  continued  my  study  of  dynamic  cell 
chemistry,"  he  says,  "while  many  of  the  faculty  in 
the  department  were  identifying  the  clams  in  the 
Illinois  River.  I  just  didn't  seem  to  fit  in  there." 

As  a  graduate  student,  Clark  had  worked  in 
the  infrared  spectrophotometry  laboratory  of 
James  D.  Hardy  at  Cornell  Medical  College.  Now 
Hardy,  who'd  moved  on  to  become  director  of 
research  for  the  Aviation  Medical  Acceleration 
Laboratory  at  the  Naval  Air  Development  Center 
outside  of  Philadelphia,  came  to  Clark's  rescue  by 
asking  him  to  become  director  of  the  lab's 
Biophysics  Division. 

The  move  represented  a  dramatic  change  in 
focus  for  Clark:  from  the  individual  cell  to  the 
human  organism.  Like  Hardy,  he  accepted  a  joint 
appointment  at  the  nearby  Lmiversity  of 
Pennsylvania  School  of  Medicine,  where,  as  a 
research  assistant  and  later  an  assistant  professor 
of  physiology,  he  gained  a  broader  perspective  on 
the  functioning  and  limitations  of  the  body. 

Part  ot  Clark's  job  at  the  Aviation  Medical 
Acceleration  Lab  involved  conducting 
experiments  and  pilot  training  using  a  giant 
centrifuge  that  could  spin  human  beings  at  high 
speeds,  simulating  the  G  forces  pilots  encountered 
in  jet  aircraft.  W  nen  he  arrived,  the  centrifuge, 
with  its  50-foot  arm  and  4,000-horsepower  motor, 
was  being  used  primarily  in  what  he  calls  the 
"merry-go-round  mode,"  but  he  knew  the 
machine  had  gimbals  that  permitted  the  gondola 
to  be  tilted  in  virtually  any  direction  as  it  was  spun 
around.  These  could,  with  proper  control,  permit 
a  pilot  to  experience  the  effects  of  changes  he 
made  in  the  attitude  of  his  simulated  airplane. 

With  colleague  Richard  Crosby,  a  mathema- 
tician, he  decided  to  drive  the  centrifuge  with 
some  early  analog  computers.  They  installed  mock 
cockpits  in  the  gondola  and  wrote  algorithms  that 
caused  the  gondola  to  roll,  yaw  and  pitch  in  direct 
response  to  the  pilot's  movement  of  the  control 
stick.  While  the  system  worked,  they  quickly 
realized  it  could  benefit  from  more  computing 
muscle. 

They  received  permission  to  connect  the 
centrifuge  to  the  ENIAC  II  computer,  which  had 
been  installed  at  the  Naval  Air  Development 
Center.  ENIAC  II  was  a  cousin  of  the  original 
ENIAC,  the  world's  first  large  electronic  analog 
computer."  We  were  there  at  the  beginning  of 
dynamic  flight  simulation,  though  it  has  never 


SUMMER  1997 


in  inn  m minimi 


been  recognized  in  the  literature,"  Clark  says. 
"We  made  a  real  breakthrough." 

In  the  latter  half  of  the  1950s,  the  United 
States  began  turning  its  eyes  toward  space  and 
thinking  about  how  men  and  machines  would 
perforin  in  that  alien  environment.  Thoughts 
were  already  drifting  toward  interplanetary  travel 
and  the  prospect  of  sending  manned  missions  to 
Mars.  "A  trip  to  Mars  was  expected  to  take  six 
months,"  he  says.  "The  engineers  worried  about 
how  humans  would  hold  up  during  such  a  long 
flight.  'We  have  the  machines,'  they'd  say,  'it's  the 
human  beings  that  are  the  problem.'" 

(dark  says  the  travel  time  to  Mars  during  its 
closest  approach  to  Earth  could  be  cut  to  just  two 
days  if  the  spacecraft  could  be  accelerated 
continuously  at  two  times  the  force  of  gravity  for 
half  of  the  voyage  and  then  decelerated  at  the 
same  rate  the  second  halt.  But  nobody  knew  then 
how  continuous  acceleration  for  such  a  long 
period  might  affect  human  physiology.  To  find 
out,  Clark  climbed  into  the  centrifuge  during  the 
Thanksgiving  weekend  of  1957,  had  it  spun  it  up 
to  2  Gs,  and  stayed  there  for  24  hours. 

Reclining  in  a  contoured  couch,  he  found  that 
he  could  cook  on  a  hot  plate,  sleep — even  stand 
and  move  to  a  certain  degree.  A  film  made  of  him 
in  the  gondola  shows  the  skin  on  his  face  pulled 
back  as  if  he  had  developed  jowls.  The  experience 
left  him  groggy  and  tired,  but  convinced  that  a 
fast  trip  to  Mars  was  possible  (in  fact,  it  would  be 
the  need  for  new  developments  in  engine  technol- 
ogy, not  human  capabilities,  that  would  stand  in 
the  way  of  such  a  voyage). 

During  the  simulated  flight,  he  took  advantage 
of  the  opportunity  to  conduct  experiments  on  the 
Coriolus  illusion,  a  problem  that  affects  centrifuge 
riders.  "You  have  to  be  careful  about  moving  your 
head  when  the  centrifuge  (or  a  rotating  space 
station)  is  spinning  so  as  to  avoid  becoming 
nauseous,"  he  says.  "I  explored  that.  I  wanted  to 
see  at  what  point  it  becomes  serious.  I  moved  my 
head  at  various  rates  to  controllably  go  up  to  the 
point  where  I  was  throwing  up.  I  got  some  of  the 
first  numbers  on  the  disorientation  effects  of  head 
motion  under  centrifugation." 

I  le  says  it  was  common  for  the  scientists  who 
ran  the  centrifuge  to  use  themselves  as  test  subjects. 
In  fact,  he  notes,  they  would  often  expose 
themselves  to  conditions  more  severe  than  those 
the  pilots  and  test  subjects  experienced.  "We 
pushed  ourselves  right  up  to  the  limits,"  he  says.  "I 
was  unconscious  on  the  centrifuge  perhaps  1 0 
times.  That  was  the  whole  atmosphere  then." 

In  1957,  Clark  was  named  program  director 
for  a  project  that  contributed  to  the  design  and 
testing  of  the  X-15  experimental  aircraft.  Clark 
and  his  team  would  also  be  responsible  for  using 
their  expertise  in  dynamic  flight  simulation  to 
conduct  training  exercises  for  the  X-15  pilots  and 
to  demonstrate  that  the  pilots  could  withstand 


flights  in  the  craft,  which  was 
designed  to  travel  at  more  than 
4,000  miles  per  hour  to  altitudes  in 
excess  of  100  miles.  The  simulations 
contributed  to  the  design  of  a  special 
head  restraint  developed  for  the  X- 
15  and  demonstrated  the  need  for 
replacing  the  traditional  center-stick 
control  with  side-arm  controls  that 
pilots  could  more  easily  manipulate 
under  high  (is.  Most  important, 
they  familiarized  the  X-15  pilots 
with  normal  and  emergency  flight 
acceleration  conditions  before  they 
made  actual  flights. 

As  a  result  of  the  X-15  work, 
(dark  was  named  "Civil  Servant  of  the 
Year"  by  the  Federal  Business 
Association.   The  work  also  led  to  a 
contract  to  train  the  seven  astronauts 
chosen  to  inaugurate  America's 
manned  spaceflight  program  by  flying 
the  tiny  Mercury  capsule  into  Earth 
orbit.  A  full-scale,  working  simulated 
capsule  was  installed  inside  the 
gondola  and  the  astronauts  flew 
simulations  of  normal  and  emergency 
flight  procedures.  Two  emergency 
maneuvers  were  of  particular  concern 
to  NASA.  The  first,  a  launch  abort 
requiring  the  use  of  the  rocket- 
powered  escape  tower,  would  expose 
an  astronaut  to  1 1  Gs.  Even  more 
severe  was  an  emergency  reentry, 
which  could  generate  up  to  25  Gs. 

"An  astronaut  would  have 
experienced  1 1  Gs  when  the  escape 
tower  fired  and  again  when  the 
rockets  shut  down  and  the  capsule 
was  slowed  by  air  resistance,"  Clark 
says.  "People  had  never  been 
through  that  experience.  I  did  the 
initial  trials  myself.  In  small  steps, 
we  spun  the  centrifuge  up  to  1 1  Gs 
and  then  quickly  turned  the  gondola 
1 80  degrees  to  get  11  Gs  in  the 
opposite  direction.  It  was  an 
imperfect  simulation,  because  as  the 
gondola  turned,  we  had  to  rotate 
through  the  point  where  my  feet 
were  facing  down  and  much  of  the 
blood  drained  from  my  brain.  I  was 
right  at  the  edge  of  unconsciousness 
and  experiencing  tremors.  The 
astronauts  themselves  were  trained 
only  up  to  6  Gs." 

The  25  G  emergency  entry 
nearly  put  a  halt  to  the  Mercury 
program,  Clark  says,  because  the 
Washington  physician  advisors 
didn't  think  people  could  live 


A 


Stirring  the  pot 


Clark  (center)  designed  the 
first  working  airbag  restraint 
system,  originally  developed  for 
spacecraft.  He  tested  it  himself 
by  lying  between  two  airbags  in 
this  box,  which  was  repeatedly 
dropped  from  increasing 
heights. 


At  the  Aviation  Medical 
Acceleration  Lab,  Clark  ran 
what  was  then  the  largest 
human  centrifuge  (above). 
He  developed  methods  to 
dynamically  simulate  actual 
flight  accelerations  and  then 
trained  the  X-15  pilots  and 
Mercury  astronauts. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


A 


Stirring  the  pot 


44 


The  auto 

companies  did  some 

work  before  my 

studies. 

But  their  technical 

work  was  done 

in  secret. 

Ours  was  the 

first  published 

technical  work, 

and  they  didn  t 

want  us 
stiiring  the  pot. 


99 


through  such  extreme  forces.  "It  wasn't  until 
Carter  Collins,  lying  in  the  special  custom  molded 
couch  that  NASA  designed  for  the  Mercury 
capsule,  withstood  25  Gs  on  the  centrifuge  and 
walked  out  of  the  gondola,  that  they  dropped  their 
reservations." 

In  1961,  astronaut  Alan  Shepard  rode  the  first 
Mercury  capsule  into  space  in  his  historic 
suborbital  flight.  That  same  year,  Clark  agreed  to 
become  head  of  the  Life  Sciences  Division  of  the 
Engineering  Department  at  Martin  Company,  the 
Baltimore-based  aerospace  firm.  Martin  built  the 
Titan  ICBM,  which  would  become  the  launch 
vehicle  for  the  two-man  Gemini  spacecraft.  It  was 
also  hoping  to  make  a  bid  for  a  piece  of  the  multi- 
billion-dollar  Apollo  moon  landing  program. 

It  was  at  Martin  Company  that  Clark's 
interest  in  airbags  first  developed.  In  his  last  year 
at  the  Aviation  Medical  Acceleration  Laboratory, 
Clark  had  conducted  tests  of  a  belt/vest  restraint 
system  proposed  for  aircraft  that  used  low- 
pressure  airbags  to  tighten  the  restraint.  He  was 
also  aware  of  airmats  developed  for  the  "snatch 
landing"  of  aircraft,  and  of  airbags  used  to  soft- 
land  missiles.  Having  seen  the  expense  involved  in 
custom-molding  a  special  couch  for  each  Mercury 
astronaut,  at  the  Martin  Company  he  proposed 
that  the  Apollo  spacecraft  use  an  inflated  air  seat 
that  would  self-conform  to  the  shape  of  its 
occupant.  In  addition  to  providing  a  seat  that 
could  be  easily  deflated  and  stowed,  an  air  couch, 
in  combination  with  an  airbag  deployed  above  the 
couch,  could  offer  astronauts  exceptional 
protection  in  a  crash  landing,  he  noted. 

He  developed  a  test  unit  inside  a  large  box  and 
became  the  first  person  to  crash  test  an  airbag 
system.  He  lay  down  inside  the  box  between  two 
airbags  as  the  box  was  dropped  from  increasing 
heights.  "We  found  that  if  you  move  the  whole 
body  as  a  unit  in  a  controlled  manner  in  a  crash,  the 
G  levels  experienced  by  the  body  are  significantly 
lower  than  those  experienced  by  the  box,"  he  says. 
"I  later  wrote  a  chapter  in  a  book  that  explained 
that  in  a  crash,  it  isn't  the  rapid  deceleration  that's 
dangerous,  it's  the  distortion  of  the  body  as  a  result 
of  deceleration.  The  trouble  with  seat  belts,  for 
example,  is  that  they  are  only  2 -inches  wide.  They 
work  fine  at  low  speeds,  but  at  speeds  above  35 
miles  per  hour,  they  crack  your  ribs." 

His  work  resulted  in  a  government  contract 
(the  first  ever  awarded  for  work  on  an  airbag 
safety  system)  to  experiment  with  spacecraft 
airbags.  Although  NASA  did  not  incorporate  the 
system  into  the  Apollo  spacecraft,  the  work  led  to 
research  on  an  airbag  system  for  airplanes.  Like 
the  Apollo  unit,  the  system  included  an  airbag  and 
an  air  seat. 

The  system  was  tested  successfully  by 
launching  it  on  a  Federal  Aviation  Administration 
catapult  in  Atlantic  City,  N.J.,  where  it  offered 
protection  in  crashes  that  produced  velocity 


changes  of  more  than  100  miles  per  hour.  The 
system  also  performed  well  in  several  airplane  and 
helicopter  crash  tests.  In  one  test,  the  FAA 
crashed  a  DC-7,  loaded  with  instruments,  cameras 
and  an  assortment  of  experimental  safety  devices, 
into  a  hill  at  160  miles  per  hour. 

As  it  happened,  Life  magazine  and  NASA  had 
installed  cameras  to  record  the  drama  inside  the 
cabin.  The  photos  appeared  in  the  June  12,  1964, 
issue  of  Life.  "The  cameras  caught  special 
backward  facing  seats  falling  over,  dummies  in 
forward  facing  seats  breaking  their  heads  off  on 
the  seatbacks,  and  other  assorted  mayhem,"  Clark 
says.  "But  the  dummy  in  my  test  seat  went 
forward  into  the  airbag  and  then  gently  floated 
back  into  the  seat.  He  hit  the  bag  again  as  the 
plane  slammed  into  a  second  hill,  then  floated 
back  to  the  seat.  I  figured  the  dummy  may  have 
experienced  5  Gs.  It  was  obviously  a  breakthrough 
in  crash  protection." 

Aircraft  makers  and  airlines  showed  little 
interest  in  the  airbag  system.  Government 
regulations  did  not  (and  still  do  not)  require 
manufacturers  to  provide  high-G  protection  to 
airline  passengers,  so  airbags  seemed  a  needless 
expense.  "But  this  is  something  that's  still 
needed,"  Clark  says. 

Clark  was  already  exploring  another  potential 
market  for  airbags.  Recognizing  that  far  more 
people  die  on  the  roads  each  year  than  in  the  air, 
he  began  work  on  an  airbag  safety  system  for 
automobiles,  which  became  known  as  the  Airstop 
Restraint  System.  The  system  employed  reusable 
airbags  mounted  at  various  points  in  the  car 
(including  a  dashboard  bag  for  the  chest  and  a 
separate  bag  for  the  legs),  air  seats,  pressurized  air 
canisters  to  inflate  them  (the  canisters  could  be 
refilled  at  a  service  station  air  pump),  and  a  radar 
system  to  detect  an  imminent  crash  and  inflate  the 
bags  just  before  impact.  The  radar  system  would 
have  provided  just  enough  time  to  inflate  the 
bags — at  low  pressure. 

The  bags  installed  in  cars  today,  Clark  says, 
are  triggered  by  the  rapid  deceleration  of  an  actual 
impact.  They  use  the  ignition  of  sodium  azinide  to 
create  the  rapid,  high-pressure  inflation  needed  to 
till  the  bags  fully  in  the  few  milliseconds  between 
the  time  the  collision  begins  and  the  time  the  occu- 
pant strikes  the  vehicle  interior.  It  is  this  high-speed 
inflation  that  has  been  implicated  in  the  injury  and 
death  of  a  number  of  adults  and  children. 

"They  now  say  that  airbags  have  killed  more 
children  under  12  than  they've  saved,"  Clark  says. 
"That's  sad.  A  slowly  inflating  airbag  would  gently 
push  a  child  back  and  cause  no  injury.  In  the  early 
1970s,  Toyota,  perhaps  partially  as  a  result  of  my 
suggestion,  developed  a  radar  crash  anticipation 
system  to  trigger  airbags,  but  abandoned  it.  I 
understand  that  the  idea  is  now  being  considered 
by  other  auto  makers.  Still,  this  valuable 
technology  has  been  lost  for  25  years." 


Summer  1997 


BTEiwoiiimiiigamini«Miwn;uni^nniim«i 


As  his  airbag  work  progressed,  (Mark  got  his 
first  real  taste  of  the  competition  that  can  develop 
within  corporations  between  the  desire  to  serve  the 
public  good  by  making  safer  products  and  the  need 
to  continue  to  make  profits  by  maintaining  the 
status  quo.  As  a  result  of  a  merger  with  Marrietta, 
Martin  Company  acquired  a  line  of  paints  sold  to 
auto  makers.  Not  long  after  the  merger,  (dark 
discovered  that  this  group  of  customers  was 
anxious  to  keep  his  work  under  wraps. 

Already,  Clark  had  learned  that  he  was  not  the 
first  person  to  consider  putting  airbags  in  cars. 
Patent  attorneys  for  Martin  had  found  existing 
patents  for  airbag  restraint  systems  for  cars  and 
airplanes,  although  none  had  ever  undergone 
controlled  tests.  He  learned  later  that  a  number  of 
auto  makers  had  conducted  limited  tests  of  airbag 
components  but  had  decided  not  to  pursue  the 
technology.  "The  auto  companies  did  some  work- 
before  my  studies,"  Clark  says.  "But  their 
technical  work  was  done  in  secret.  Our's  was  the 
first  published  technical  work,  and  they  didn't 
want  us  stirring  the  pot." 

But  stir  the  pot  is  exactly  what  he  did.  In 
1966,  Ralph  Nader  and  Clark  were  invited  to 
testify  at  a  hearing  before  the  Iowa  state 
legislature,  which  was  considering  the  nation's 
first  law  to  require  seat  belts  in  automobiles.  Clark 
talked  about  the  additional  protection  that  airbags 
could  provide.  A  year  earlier,  Nader  had  quoted 
(dark  in  his  landmark  book,  Unsafe  lit  Any  Speed, 
which  chronicled  the  auto  industry's  reluctance  to 
make  safer  cars. 

With  others  at  Martin,  he  designed  a 
conceptual  safety  car  that  became  the  first 
prototype  car  to  have  airbags — at  least  on  paper. 
The  car  also  incorporated  a  host  of  advanced 
safety  features,  some  of  which  have  only  recently 
been  employed  or  suggested  for  production  model 
cars.  They  included  a  collapsible  steering  column, 
"heads-up"  displays  for  the  driver,  a  unitized 
passenger  compartment,  an  energy-absorbing 
structure  around  the  engine  compartment,  a  fire 
suppression  system,  and  tail  lights  and  signal 
flashers  mounted  on  the  car  roof  to  make  them 
more  visible. 

The  New  York  Times  published  the  drawing  of 
the  safety  car  and  an  article  about  Clark's  work  on 
automotive  airbags  on  Jan.  12,  1966.  In  the  story, 
he  foretold  the  danger  modern,  high-pressure 
airbag  systems  would  pose  to  children.  "The 
'explosive'  system  would  be  harmless  to  seated 
passengers,  Dr.  Clark  says,  but  could  seriously 
injure  a  child  who  happened  to  be  standing  up 
when  it  went  off.  That's  why  slower  inflation 
would  be  required,"  the  article  reported. 

After  the  story  came  out,  Clark  got  a  phone  call 
at  his  office  from  artist  Salvador  Dali.  "He  said  he 
was  intrigued  with  the  concept  of  a  billowy  thing 
that  will  protect  you  in  a  crash,  and  asked  me  to 
have  lunch  with  him,"  he  says.  "I  felt  I  had  to  get 


permission  from  management,  and  the 
upshot  is  I  didn't  go.  I've  kicked  myself 
ever  since." 

In  1965,  Clark  and  a  colleague 
presented  a  paper  on  the  Airstop 
Restraint  systems  at  the  annual  Stapp 
Car  Crash  Conference.  The  paper 
explained  that  lap  belts  (then 
available  in  few  cars)  are  inadequate 
to  prevent  serious  injury  and  death 
even  in  collisions  at  speeds  as  low  as 
20  miles  per  hour.  It  explained  how 
airbags — deploying  from  several 
directions — and  air  seats  could 
restrain  passengers  and  offer 
protection  even  at  highway  speeds. 
The  paper  contained  the  first  pub- 
lished description  of  a  side  airbag 
system. 

"That  paper  really  got  people 
thinking,"  he  says.  "Afterward,  the 
auto  companies  worldwide  began 
working  on  airbags.  Ford  and 
Ceneral  Motors  had  done  some 
work  in  the  U.S.,  but  companies  like 
Volvo  and  Mercedes  Benz  hadn't 
done  any  work  up  to  that  point.  By 
1966,  they  were  all  looking  at  the 
technology  and  wondering  what  to 
do  with  it.  I  took  a  system  the  auto 
companies  wanted  to  ignore  and  put 
it  in  the  spotlight." 

Just  how  much  the  auto 
companies  wanted  to  maintain  the 
airbag's  low  profile  became  clear 
when  the  U.S.  House  of 
Representatives  invited  Clark  to 
testify*  on  auto  safety-  as  part  of 
hearings  on  the  need  for  a  federal 
agency  to  regulate  consumer  safety, 
(dark  asked  the  legislative  committee 
holding  the  hearing  to  send  a  formal 
letter  of  invitation  to  his  superiors. 
As  the  date  for  his  testimony- 
approached,  he  learned  in  an  urgent 
phone  call  from  Washington  that  the 
letter  had  been  sent,  but  never 
responded  to. 

"Martin  didn't  want  me  to  talk," 
he  says.  "They  finally  decided  to  let 
me  testify,  but  I  spent  two  days  with 
the  chief  engineer,  the  legal  counsel 
and  other  executives  who  urged  me 
to  say  that  I  didn't  fully  understand 
the  implications  of  my7  experiments.  I 
did  appear  at  the  hearing,  but  the 
atmosphere  at  Martin  was  so  clouded 
after  that  that  I  decided  to  leave. 

"It  was  frustrating  to  see  the 
opposition  of  the  auto  companies. 
They  would  tell  my  bosses  that  their 


A 


Stirring  the  pot 


Having  developed  airbags 
for  spacecraft  and  airplanes, 
Clark  realized  they  had  greater 
potential  for  saving  lives  in 
automobiles.  Here  he  demon- 
strates part  of  a  comprehensive 
automotive  airbag  safety 
system  he  developed  while 
at  Martin  Company. 


Clark's  airbag  systems  proved 
themselves  in  a  variety  of  tests. 
Here,  he  is  the  test  subject  as  a 
rig  outfitted  with  his  airbag 
restraint  system  is  swung  at 
high  speed  into  a  wall. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


A 


Stirring  the  pot 


44 


People  have  had 

glass  removed  from 

their  brains  after 

accidents.  And  yet 

the  industry 

continues  to  say 

that  tempered  glass 

breaks  into  tiny, 

nonsharp  cubes 

that  don  t  hurt 

anyone. 


99 


research  showed  that  airbags  don't  work,  at  the 
same  time  that  I  was  doing  work  that  showed  that 
they  worked  very  well.  They  also  advanced  the 
notion  that  everybody  dies  in  catastrophic  crashes 
and  that  there  was  nothing  that  could  be  done, 
except  to  try  to  educate  the  'nut  behind  the 
wheel.'  But  some  people  do  survive  serious 
crashes,  and  they  should  have  been  asking  why 
some  people  live.  Despite  my  work  and  the 
concepts  we  and  others  demonstrated  with  our 
concept  cars,  they  insisted  that,  while  the  systems 
might  be  effective,  they  were  just  too  expensive." 

In  1966,  Clark  founded  Safety  Systems 
Company,  a  research  consulting  firm  he  has 
maintained  ever  since.  The  company  enabled  him 
to  continue  to  explore  his  interest  in  automotive 
safety.  A  year  later,  he  accepted  a  post  as  associate 
chief  of  the  Science  and  Technology  Division  at 
the  Library  of  Congress.  In  1969,  he  was  asked  to 
head  the  Task  Group  on  Industry  Self-Regulation 
of  the  National  Commission  on  Product  Safety. 
The  commission  was  the  first  step  toward  the 
creation  of  the  Consumer  Product  Safety 
Commission  in  1972. 

The  task  group  was  directed  to  investigate 
how  effectively  industry  could  regulate  itself  and 
produce  safe  products.  "The  commission  looked 
at  safety  in  the  home  and  found  that  we  were 
killing  30,000  people  a  year  in  preventable 
accidents — like  people  slipping  on  rugs  and 
infants  getting  their  heads  stuck  in  the  gaps  in  crib 
rails.  Our  group  looked  at  what  industry  was 
doing.  We  concluded  that  they  were  not  going  to 
solve  many  safety  problems  on  their  own.  The 
profit  motive  was  just  too  strong." 

Clark  spent  a  year  as  a  staff  consultant  in 
consumer  product  safety  at  the  National  Bureau 
of  Standards  and  in  1972  was  asked  to  help 
establish  and  serve  as  the  first  head  of  WPI's  Life 
Sciences  Department  (now  the  Biology  and 
Biotechnology  Department).  "For  many  years,  I 
had  been  saying  to  WPI  that  engineers  have  to 
understand  biology,"  he  says.  "They  must  have  an 
appreciation  for  the  people  who  use  and  control 
the  equipment  they  design.  I  set  it  up  as  a  fairly 
classical  department,  emphasizing  an  appreciation 
of  life  and  biochemistry.  But  I'm  not  a  money- 
maker, and  WPI  felt  that  I  should  have  been  out 
raising  funds.  After  two  years,  I  was  asked  to  step 
down,  and  I  did." 

He  returned  home  to  Baltimore  and  became  a 
member  of  the  senior  staff  of  the  Monsour 
Medical  Foundation.  His  focus  was  using 
computer  and  communications  technology  to 
address  issues  in  community  health.  He  set  up  a 
computer  database  (using  punch  cards)  that 
helped  community  groups  save  time  and  money 
by  finding  out  if  other  groups  had  already  solved 
problems  they  were  facing.  He  also  organized 
demonstration  projects  using  a  set  of  experimental 
NASA  satellites,  conducting  two  early  medical 


conferences  by  satellite.  "After  three  years,  the 
foundation  reduced  the  amount  of  money  it 
wanted  to  spend  on  this  type  of  thing,  so  I  had  to 
look  at  other  pastures,"  Clark  says. 

Those  other  pastures  would  take  him  back 
into  the  world  or  automobile  safety.  From  1977 
until  his  retirement  in  1990,  he  worked  as  a 
physical  scientist  in  the  Office  of  Crashworthiness 
Research  at  the  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety 
Administration  (NHTSA).  There,  he  became 
involved  in  an  area  of  research  that  continues  to 
occupy  him  today:  how  to  prevent  ejections 
through  the  side  windows  of  cars  and  trucks. 
About  10,000  people  die  each  year  after  being 
partly  or  completely  ejected  from  their  vehicles 
during  crashes  (most  of  the  victims  are  not 
wearing  seat  belts).  About  half  of  those  deaths 
occur  when  people  are  ejected  though  side 
windows,  often  in  rollover  crashes. 

Clark  says  the  major  culprit  in  side  window 
ejections  is  the  tempered  glass  that  auto  makers 
have  chosen  to  use  in  these  windows  since  the  late 
1950s  and  early  1960s.  Tempered  glass  is 
sometimes  called  safety  glass  for  its  tendency  to 
shatter  into  small  rounded  pieces — under  ideal 
conditions.  It  is  less  expensive  than  the  laminated 
glass  used  in  auto  windshields,  which  is  made  by 
sandwiching  a  sheet  of  polyvinyl  butyral  between 
two  sheets  of  glass. 

The  plastic  layer  in  laminated  glass  can 
prevent  missiles  from  penetrating  the  passenger 
compartment  of  a  car  and  can  keep  an  occupant 
from  penetrating  the  window  in  a  crash.  The 
lamination  also  holds  the  fragments  of  a  broken 
window  together,  preventing  sharp  pieces  of  glass 
from  flying  around  and  causing  lacerations.  If  an 
additional  layer  of  plastic  is  added  to  the  inside  of 
the  windows  (called  glass-plastic  glazing), 
occupants  are  also  protected  from  lacerations 
caused  by  contact  with  a  broken  pane. 

Tempered  glass,  on  the  other  hand,  generally 
shatters  in  a  crash — often  due  to  the  strain  placed 
on  the  window  frame.  And  studies  conducted  by 
Clark  and  others  have  demonstrated  that  when 
tempered  glass  breaks  under  strain,  it  forms  large, 
sharp  fragments  that  can  fly  through  the  passenger 
compartment  at  high  speeds.  These  fragments  are 
responsible  for  serious  laceration  injuries  in  about 
200,000  people  annually.  "These  fragments  cause 
terrible  injuries,"  he  says.  "People  have  had  glass 
removed  from  their  brains  after  accidents.  And  yet 
the  industry  continues  to  say  that  tempered  glass 
breaks  into  tiny,  nonsharp  cubes  that  don't  hurt 
anyone." 

Clark  has  conducted  a  number  of  laboratory 
and  crash  tests  that  demonstrate  that  glass-plastic 
side  windows  could  prevent  most  of  the  laceration 
injuries  that  occur  in  crashes  and  also  significantly 
reduce  ejection  deaths  and  injuries.  When 
concerns  were  raised  about  the  tendency  of  glass 
to  pull  out  of  a  window  frame  when  it  is  broken, 


10 


Summer  1997 


imMaiwMMi 


he  designed  a  T-shaped  plastic  strip  than  can  be 
bonded  to  the  edge  of  the  window.  The  "T"  sits 
in  the  window  channel  and  prevents  the  glass 
from  pulling  out,  enabling  the  plastic  layer  to 
become  a  strong  "safety  net"  that  keeps 
passengers  inside  the  car. 

Despite  Clark's  positive  test  results,  auto 
makers  have  been  reluctant  to  make  the  change 
and  have  disputed  his  and  others'  claims  about  the 
risks  ol  tempered  glass. 

Still,  change  ma\  be  in  the  wind.   The  \l  IIS  A 
has  continued  the  studies  of  glazing  that  (dark 
started  and  has  begun  to  lay  the  groundwork  for 
possible  new  regulations  requiring  glass-plastic 
side  windows.   \  number  ot  European  and 
Japanese  ear  makers  plan  to  offer  laminated  or 
glass-plastic  side  windows  as  an  option.  For  those 
companies,  the  motivation  for  change  seems  not  to 
be  safetj  ,  but  rather  the  concern  of  car  buyers  that 
the  ease  w  ith  which  tempered  glass  shatters  makes 
ears  too  vulnerable  to  break-ins. 

In  addition  to  continuing  his  work  on  car 
windows,  (dark  has  been  conducting  tests  of  a 
new  use  tor  airbags — airbag  bumpers.  He 
savs  the  concept  is  a  reaction  to  the  fact 
that  about  halt  ot  the  serious  injuries  in 
automobile  accidents  are  related  to  the 
intrusion  ot  parts  of  the  car  into  the 
passenger  compartment.  He  notes  that 
today's  smaller  cars  have  little  in  the  way 
of  a  "crush  zone"  to  absorb  the  energy  of 
a  collision.  In  addition,  bumpers,  which 
b\  law  must  be  strong  enough  to 
withstand  crashes  of  just  five  miles  per 
hour,  provide  little  protection  in  accidents 
at  higher  speeds. 

The  idea  of  temporarily  extending  the 
crush  /one  ot  a  car  was  first  developed  in 
the  early  1960s  b)  James  Ryan,  a 
mechanical  engineer  at  the  University  of 
.Minnesota.  Ryan  designed  and  built  a 
hydraulic  bumper  that  would  extend  about  17 
inches  w  hen  the  car  traveled  over  20  miles  pet- 
hour.  In  tests,  Ryan  showed  that  a  car  thus 
protected  could  be  driven  into  a  wall  at  about  20 
miles  per  hour  with  no  significant  damage  to  the 
vehicle  or  driver. 

At  40(1  pounds,  Ryan's  system  proved  too 
heavy  to  be  taken  seriously  by  auto  makers. 
Clark's  system  replaces  the  extendible  bumper 
with  lightweight  airbags  that  would  project  several 
feet  in  front  of  the  car  just  prior  to  a  crash, 
triggered  by  the  same  kind  of  radar  detection 
system  he  originally  proposed  using  with 
passenger  airbags.  So  far,  a  number  of 
experiments  and  crash  tests  with  pre-inflated 
airbags  have  been  undertaken.  The  results,  Clark 
says,  indicate  that  an  airbag  bumper  (in 
combination  w  ith  occupant  airbags)  could  protect 
occupants  from  serious  injury  in  a  crash  into  a 
wall  at  up  to  50  miles  per  hour. 


"It's  feasible  and  it  will  be  used  m  ears,"  sa\s  the 
man  who  crusaded  tor  passenger  airbags  long  before 

the  auto  industry  ami  federal  regulators  were  ready 
to  think  about  them.  "It  just  takes  tune  to  knock 
heads  enough  to  yet  things  to  begin  to  happen." 
Airbag  bumpers  may  show  up  in  ears  long 
before  another  (dark  innovation,  the  only  safety 
device  for  which  he  has  "afforded"  a  patent 
(awarded  in  1973).  "It's  called  the  retrorocket 
brake,  and  it  really  is  something  tor  the  future," 
he  says.  "It  will  probably  only  come  about  when 
cars  routinely  travel  above  100  miles  per  hour. 
\uto  companies  say  that  if  you  put  your  toot  on 
the  brake  and  you  start  to  skid,  that's  an  'act  of 
( rod'  and  there's  nothing  they  can  do  about  it.  But 
you  need  to  provide  a  way  to  develop  a  force 
counter  to  vehicle  motion,  other  than  friction, 
because  friction  can  take  you  only  up  to  about  1 
G — typically  0.7  C  on  dry  surfaces." 

(dark's  design  calls  for  a  solid-fueled  rocket 
with  two  exhaust  ports  located  on  either  side  of 
the  car,  facing  forward.  The  thrust  ot  the  rocket 
could  slow  a  car  from  55  miles  per  hour  to  S  miles 


A 


Stirring  the  pot 


per  hour  in  just  23  feet  of  travel.  The  obvious 
hazards  associated  with  driving  around  with  a 
rocket  under  one's  car  could  be  ameliorated  by 
using  a  rocket  that  expels  water  at  high  pressure, 
instead  of  hot  exhaust.  "Why  is  it  that  we  accept  a 
vehicle  crashing  when  the  driver  has  her  foot  on 
the  brake  and  intends  to  stop?"  he  wrote  in  a  1983 
memo  to  others  at  the  NHTSA.  "We  are 
providing  inadequate  control  capability." 

Clark  says  he  is  not  ready  to  fight  any  battles 
over  retrorocket  brakes.  But  the  question  might 
be  asked,  why  does  he  continue  to  wage  the 
campaigns  in  which  he  remains  engaged?  After 
years  of  standing  up  to  intransigent  industries  and 
slow-moving  bureaucracies,  is  he  ready  to  take  a 
rest  and  enjoy  retirement?  "No,"  he  says  without 
hesitation.  "I  enjoy  doing  something.  Besides, 
there  are  still  45,000  deaths  on  U.S.  highways 
each  year.  That's  125  a  day.  A  lot  of  those  deaths 
can  be  prevented.  I  just  have  to  keep  pushing."^ 


From  his  home 
office  in  Baltimore, 
Clark  continues 
his  work  in  auto 
safety.  One  cur- 
rent project  is 
developing  safer, 
glass-plastic  side 
windows  for  cars. 
The  "T"  edge  he 
developed  (above) 
would  help  side 
windows  become 
safety  nets  for 
passengers  in 
rollover  accidents. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


11 


a 


Americas  highways  are  the  eafeet  in  the  world, 

thanks,  in  large  measure,  to  devices  that  protect  cars  and  their  occupants  in 
collisions  with  roadside  hazards.  Some  of  the  most  successful  highway  crash 
cushions  were  designed  by  WP1  Provost  John  Carney,  whose  work  has  earned 
him  an  international  reputation  in  automotive  safety. 


Forgiving  Highway 


Hk 


^ 


&Y     MICHAEL     DORSEY 

The  slow-motion  film  shows  a  driverless 
automobile  traveling  along  a  paved  track. 
The  camera  follows  the  car  as  it  approaches  the 
blunt  end  of  a  concrete  median  barrier.   The  car 
strikes  the  barrier  head  on,  and  like  a  dull  knife, 
the  thin  concrete  slab  slices  deep  into  the  engine 
compartment  as  the  car's  front  end  explodes  in  a 
shower  of  metal  and  glass.  I  lad  this  been  a  real 
accident  instead  of  a  crash  test,  the  car's  occupants 
would  be  dead. 

In  the  next  film,  a  pickup  truck  speeds  toward 
another  median  barrier  at  more  than  60  miles  per 
hour.  This  time,  just  ahead  of  the  start  of  the  con- 
crete strip  is  a  line  of  hollow,  black  plastic  cylin- 
ders connected  along  their  sides  by  metal  cables. 
The  truck  strikes  the  first  cylinder,  which  imme- 
diately flattens.  In  four  tenths  of  a  second,  the 
entire  27-foot  column  of  cylinders  compresses  to 
just  three  feet,  absorbing  the  truck's  kinetic  ener- 
gy and  bringing  it  to  a  stop,  its  grill  and  hood 
slightly  crumpled.  Instrumentation  in  the  truck 
shows  that  the  occupants  would  have  survived  the 
crash  with  no  serious  injuries.  After  the  crash,  the 
cushion  restores  itself  to  its  original  shape,  ready 
for  the  next  wayward  vehicle. 

The  life-saving  line  of  plastic  cylinders  is  the 
culmination  of  more  than  25  years  of  research  in 
impact  mechanics  and  crash  attenuation,  work 
that  has  made  John  F.  Carney  III,  WPI's  provost 
and  vice  president  for  academic  affairs,  an  interna- 
tionally known  authority  on  highway  safetv. 

Currently  chairman  of  the  Transportation 
Research  Board's  Committee  on  Roadside  Safety 
Features,  an  arm  of  the  National  Academy  of  Sci- 
ences and  Engineering,  Carney  has  conducted 
groundbreaking  research  in  structural  mechanics 
and  roadside  safety  with  support  from  the  Nation- 
al Science  Foundation,  the  Federal  Highway 
Administration,  and  the  departments  of  trans- 
portation in  six  states,  among  other  organizations. 
The  results  have  been  published  in  over  140 
research  publications,  and  have  been  the  subject 
of  more  than  100  presentations  at  national  and 
international  meetings  and  conferences. 

But  his  greatest  accomplishments  may  well  be 
the  many  lives  saved  by  the  safety  devices  he's 
designed,  devices  that  have  come  between 
motorists  and  such  deadly  hazards  as  abutments, 
bridge  pilings  and  median  barriers. 

Carnev  sa\s  he  didn't  set  out  to  devote  his 


WPI  JOURNAL 


career  to  transportation  safety.  A  native  of  Lowell, 
Mass.,  he  received  his  bachelor's  degree  in  civil 
engineering  from  Merrimack  College  and  his  mas- 
ter's and  Ph.D.  from  Northwestern  University, 
where  he  was  supported  by  a  National  Defense 
Education  Act  Fellowship.  He  joined  the  engi- 
neering faculty  at  the  University  of  Connecticut  in 
1966  and  for  a  half  decade  conducted  research  in 
vibrations,  elasticity  and  the  stability  of  structures. 

In  the  early  1970s,  UConn's  Civil  Engineer- 
ing Department  got  a  phone  call  that  changed 
Carney's  life.  It  was  from  the  Connecticut 
Department  of  Transportation  (DOT),  which  had 
just  suffered  the  loss  of  two  highway  maintenance 
workers,  killed  when  a  car  ran  into  them  as  they 
were  working  alongside  an  interstate  highway. 
The  department  wanted  to  find  a  way  to  prevent 
such  tragedies  in  the  future.  With  his  background 
in  structural  mechanics,  Carney  seemed  a  logical 
choice  to  tackle  the  problem. 

"As  I  started  thinking  about  how  to  protect 
workers,"  Carney  says,  "I  got  interested  in  what 
happens  to  structures  when  loads  are  applied  to 
them  very  rapidly — as  when  a  car  hits  a  barrier  at 
highway  speeds.  Structural  materials  are  sensitive 
to  the  rate  at  which  loads  are  applied.  The  charac- 
teristics of  steel,  for  example,  change  dramatically 
when  loads  are  applied  quickly." 

For  the  Connecticut  DOT,  Carnev*  designed  a 
device  made  of  four  thin-walled  mild  steel  cylin- 
ders attached  to  an  aluminum  plate  on  one  end 
and  the  back  of  a  highway  service  truck  on  the 
other.  This  truck-mounted  attenuator  (TMA)  was 
designed  to  travel  behind  highway  crews  perform- 
ing mobile  operations,  such  as  line  painting,  or  act 
as  a  shield  for  crews  engaged  in  temporary  road- 
side work.  The  design  was  verified  in  a  series  of 
crash  tests  that  proved  that  it  could  protect  both 
road  crews  and  drivers. 

By  the  mid-1970s,  the  TMAs  were  put  into 
service  on  Connecticut  highways.  "Now,  20  years 
later,  Connecticut  has  about  100  of  these  in  use 
every  day,"  Carney  says. 

The  success  of  the  truck-mounted  attenuator 
led  Carney,  with  support  from  the  Federal  High- 
way Administration  and  the  Connecticut  DOT,  to 
develop  similar  devices  to  protect  errant  motorists 
from  roadside  hazards.  "Until  about  1960,"  Carney 
says,  "there  was  little  national  interest  in  highway 
safety.  As  far  as  many  federal  and  state  agencies 


13 


Forgiving  Highway 


44 


The  idea  was 

to  create  a 

forgiving  train, 

so  that  in  the 

event  of  a  crash, 

the  energy  of  the 

collision  would  be 

distributed  evenly 

throughout 
the  train,  instead 

having  it 

concentrated  in 

the  impacting  cars. 


99 


were  concerned,  it  the  'nut  behind  die  wheel'  was 
stupid  enough  to  drive  off  the  road,  any  adverse 
consequences  were  his  or  her  problem.  But  it  was 
about  then  that  Congress  became  alarmed  at  the 
rate  at  which  we  were  killing  ourselves  on  the  road 
and  began  providing  research  hands  to  address  the 
growing  fatality  rate." 

As  interest  in  crash  protection  grew,  the  fed- 
eral government  began  promulgating  regulations 
that  required  the  effectiveness  of  roadside  safety 
devices  to  be  demonstrated  in  controlled  crash 
tests.  Over  the  years,  those  regulations  have 
expanded  dramatically  and  today  run  to  several 
hundred  pages.  Crash  cushions,  for  example,  must 
pass  eight  tests  using  different  speeds,  different 
vehicles,  and  different  types  of  crashes  (head-on, 
at  a  slight  angle,  and  tangential).  The  tests  must 
demonstrate  that  vehicle  occupants  would  not  be 
exposed  to  unsafe  conditions  in  a  crash. 

"There  are  two  basic  requirements  you  have 
to  meet,"  Carney  says.  "They  are  associated  with 
the  occupant  impact  velocity  and  the  subsequent 
ridedown  deceleration.  If  you  are  driving  without 
a  seat  belt  and  hit  a  crash  cushion,  the  vehicle  will 
immediately  begin  to  decelerate,  but  you  will  keep 


moving  at  your  pre-impact  speed  until  you  hit  the 
vehicle  interior.  If  the  velocity  at  which  you  hit  is 
too  high,  there's  a  high  probability  that  you'll  be 
seriously  injured  or  killed.  Current  regulations 
limit  the  occupant  impact  velocity  to  no  more 
than  12  meters  per  second. 

"Once  you've  hit  the  interior,  you  decelerate 
with  the  vehicle.  If  that  deceleration  is  too  severe, 
you'll  die.  Your  brain  is  swimming  in  a  fluid  to 
protect  it  from  sudden  acceleration  and  decelera- 
tion, and  it  can  withstand  high  G  forces  for  short 
periods  of  time.  In  fact,  the  regulations  allow  an 
average  10  millisecond  deceleration  of  20  Gs, 
which  is  very  high — much  higher  than  what  astro- 
nauts experience.  In  addition  to  these  require- 
ments, the  regulations  specify  that  the  passenger 
compartment  can  not  be  crushed  and  that  the 
vehicle  may  not  roll  over." 

The  first  stationary  crash  cushion  Carney 
developed  for  the  Connecticut  DOT  was  designed 
to  protect  vehicles  from  crashing  into  bridge  piers 
or  wide  concrete  barriers  at  exit  ramps.  Like  the 
truck-mounted  attenuator,  it  used  steel  cylinders 
that  collapsed  laterally  on  impact,  absorbing  the 


kinetic  energy  of  a  wayward  car.  Steel  cross  mem- 
bers were  attached  to  the  insides  of  the  cylinders 
to  stiffen  them  when  the  cushion  was  struck  near 
the  back  or  at  an  oblique  angle,  so  as  to  safely  redi- 
rect the  vehicle.  The  26-foot  long,  12 -foot-wide 
cushion  employed  14  cylinders  of  various  sizes 
arranged  in  the  shape  of  an  arrowhead. 

For  his  next  project,  Carney  tackled  the  grow- 
ing problem  of  unprotected  highway  median  bar- 
riers. "These  barriers,  sometimes  called  the  con- 
crete safety  shape  or  New  Jersey  Barriers,  are 
popular  because  they  don't  require  any  mainte- 
nance," Carney  says.  "But  you  have  to  terminate  a 
run  of  median  barrier  at  some  point,  and  the  blunt 
end  is  a  severe  hazard."  Carney  modified  his  wide 
highway  cushion  and  produced  an  attenuator  that 
uses  a  single  line  of  steel  cylinders  of  various 
widths. 

Carney's  early  crash  cushion  designs  have 
been  used  by  state  transportation  departments 
around  the  country  and  overseas.  In  addition  to 
being  highly  effective  at  saving  lives  and  reducing 
injuries,  they're  relatively  easy  and  inexpensive  to 
build.  But  they  do  have  an  important  disadvan- 
tage: they  can  be  used  just  once.  "Once  a  cushion 


is  hit,  it's  out  of  commission,"  Carney  says. 
"Often,  it  will  sit  for  days,  weeks — even  months 
before  it's  replaced.  A  crash  cushion  that  has  not 
been  refurbished  won't  work,  and  that's  bad  news 
for  the  errant  motorist  and  a  severe  legal  exposure 
for  the  agency  responsible  for  the  device." 

For  his  next  generation  of  crash  cushions, 
Carney  knew  he  would  have  to  find  a  material  that 
would  provide  the  same  level  of  protection  as  mild 
steel,  but  that  was  also  capable  of  springing  quick- 
ly back  into  shape.  By  this  time,  he  was  a  professor 
of  civil  and  environmental  engineering  at  Vander- 
bilt  University  (where  he  would  serve  as  associate 
dean  for  graduate  affairs  and,  later,  associate  dean 
for  research  and  graduate  affairs).  One  day,  during 
a  meeting  at  the  Tennessee  Department  of  Trans- 
portation, he  got  a  tantalizing  lead. 

"The  head  of  maintenance  for  the  state  was 
talking  about  problems  they  were  having  with 
corrosion  in  submerged  metal  drainage  pipes,"  he 
says.  "Instead  of  replacing  the  pipes,  they  were 
lining  them  with  high-molecular-weight,  high- 
density  polyethylene  tubing.  The  intriguing  thing 
was  that  these  were  pre-formed  cylinders  made  in 


14 


Summer  1997 


ii  i  in  iiiiimn  in! 


exactly  the  right  diameters  tor  crash  cushions. 
Also,  the  material  is  relatively  inexpensive — com- 
parable in  cost  to  that  of  steel  cylinders." 

Since  nobody  had  ever  considered  using  poly- 
ethylene pipes  to  dissipate  energy,  little  was 
known  about  their  deformation  characteristics.  To 
learn  more,  Carney  obtained  some  small-diameter 
pipes  and  conducted  preliminary  lab  tests.  The 
encouraging  results  convinced  him  to  apply  tor  a 
grant  from  the  federal  Strategic  1  lighway 
Research  Program,  which  funded  the  project  after 
the  State  of  Washington  agreed  to  pay  half  of  the 
costs.  Additional  small-scale  tests  demonstrated 
that  the  polyethylene  pipes  had  the  characteristics 
Carney  sought  for  his  reusable  crash  cushions. 

With  these  results  in  hand,  he  obtained  funding 
from  a  consortium  of  states  to  develop  a  working 
device.  Rather  than  moving  on  immediately  to  an 
expensive  full-scale  crash-testing  program,  Carney 
decided  to  refine  his  design  through  computer  sim- 
ulations using  the  tools  of  finite  element  analysis. 

"A  typical  crash  test  at  one  of  the  few  facilities 
in  the  U.S.  capable  of  conducting  them  can  cost 
$15,000  to  $20,000,"  he  says.  "Using  the  standard 
trial-and-error  approach,  you  may  end  up  run- 


M 


ning  50  to  75  tests — at  a  cost  that  can  easily 
exceed  $1  million — to  get  a  design  that  works,  if 
you  ever  do,  that  is. 

"Now,  with  sophisticated  computer  software 
and  workstations,  you  can  eliminate  most  of  the 
trial  and  error  and  develop  a  design  that  is  likely 
to  pass  the  required  eight  tests  the  first  time  out. 
We  did  many  scale  model  experiments  along  with 
the  finite  element  simulations.  When  we  were 
finally  ready  for  full-scale  crash  tests,  we  were  able 
to  pass  all  eight  tests  with  very  few  failures." 

The  finite  element  techniques  Carney  used  to 
model  crash  cushions  have  proven  useful  in  anoth- 
er transportation  safety  project.  In  1980,  while  on 
a  sabbatical  leave  at  Cambridge  University,  he 
worked  with  a  colleague  who  later  established  the 
British  Advanced  Railroad  Research  Centre  with 
funding  from  British  Rail.  Knowing  of  Carney's 
success  with  roadside  crash  cushions,  he  asked 
him  if  would  be  interested  in  working  on  a  British 
Rail  initiative  to  develop  safer  passenger  trains. 

Carney  began  studying  the  mechanics  of  rail 
crashes  and  found  that  the  design  of  passenger 
coaches  was  a  major  contributor  to  the  injuries 


and  dot  lis  suffered  in  rail  accidents.  "Rail  stock 
throughout  the  world  tends  to  be  built  with  a  very 
rigid  chassis,"  he  says,  "so  the  cars  don't  dissipate 
energy  well.  In  the  worst  accidents,  cars  override 
their  neighbors  and  break  right  through  the  skm 
ot  the  other  cars." 

To  prevent  that  kind  of  accident,  Carney  pro- 
posed the  revolutionary  idea  ot  building  sacrificial 
crush  /.ones  into  the  ends  ot  rail  cars.  Using  finite 
element  analyses,  he  and  his  colleagues  developed 
a  variety  of  crush  /one  configurations  and  deter- 
mined that  a  zone  roughly  3  feet  long  at  either 
end  ot  the  car  can  significantly  reduce  tatalities  in 
rail  accidents.  "The  idea  was  to  create  a  forgiving 
train,"  Carney  says,  "so  that  in  the  event  of  a 
crash,  the  energy  of  the  collision  would  be  distrib- 
uted evenly  throughout  the  train,  instead  having  it 
concentrated  in  the  impacting  cars." 

British  Rail  recently  spent  1.5  million  pounds 
(about  Si  million)  to  organize  and  conducl  .i 
full-scale  crash  test  program  that  verified  the 
results  of  the  computer  models.  The  concept  has 
yet  to  find  its  way  into  actual  rail  cars,  Carney 
says.  Still,  he  is  hopeful  that  it  will  be  employed 
in  new  generations  of  rail  coaches  in  Europe  and 


Forgiving  Highway 


the  United  States. 

In  his  most  recent  research,  Carney,  who 
joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1996,  has  revisited  the 
problem  that  first  brought  him  into  the  field  of 
highway  safety:  the  truck-mounted  attenuator. 
With  funding  from  the  federal  government  and  a 
consortium  of  state  departments  of  transportation, 
he  has  developed  a  reusable  version  of  the  cushion 
he  created  for  the  state  of  Connecticut  in  the 
1970s.  Like  his  reusable  crash  cushions,  the  new 
TA1A  is  made  from  polyethylene. 

Thanks  to  his  research  and  the  work  of  many 
other  researchers,  entrepreneurs  and  transporta- 
tion agencies,  Carney  says  the  state  of  American 
roadsides  have  changed  dramatically  since  he  first 
began  designing  crash  cushions. 

"The  United  States  now  leads  the  world  in 
highway  safety,"  he  says.  "Our  highways  have  nev- 
er been  safer.  But  there  is  still  much  to  be  done. 
Despite  the  strides  we've  made,  safety  is  still 
largely  an  afterthought  in  highway  design.  That's 
a  battle  we've  been  fighting  for  decades.  It  might 
well  make  a  good  subject  for  faculty  research  and 
student  projects  right  here  at  WPI."  ■ 


This  sequence 
from  a  crash  test 
of  Carney's  new 
reusable  line  of 
crash  cushions 
shows  how  the 
plastic  cylinders 
compress  to  absorb 
the  energy  of  an 
errant  vehicle 
(first  two  frames), 
then  restore 
themselves  to 
their  original 
shape,  ready  for 
the  next  crash. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


15 


By  Allis 


hen  Allan  E.  Johannesen  '68  go 
WPI  in  1964,  the  only  compute 
he'd  ever  seen  was  in  the  movies. 
But  when  he  took  a  mandatory  ROTC  course — 
a  one-week  introduction  to  computers — he  can 
face-to-face  with  an  IBM  1620.  It  changed  his  life 
■  was  low  to  the  ground  and  had  a  large, 
j  console  with  a  dial  on  it,"  he  recalls. 
"It  had  a  lot  of  lights."  It  also  had  20,000  digits 
(10,000  characters)  of  memory,  with  punch-card 
input  and  output.  He  still  remembers  the  instruc- 


programs  could  take  up  to  three  days  using  punc 
cards,  so  Johannesen  suggested  the  center  run  ar 
11  -aluati^mrogram  he'd  written  and  already 
P§em  (in  test  mode,  he  was  quick  to  ; 
Three  days'  work  shrunk  to  the  three  minutes 
needed  to  identify  the  problem,  and  his  boss  knew 
he'd  made  the  right  decision. 

Today,  Johannesen  is  managing  senior  U 
systems  administrator,  but  for  many  years  he 
the  manager  of  academic  time-sharing,  a  title  he 
insists  still  describes  his  job  quite  well.  With  the 


input  ana  output,  rie  still  remembers  tne  instruc-  insists  still  describes  his  job  quite  well.  With  the 

tions  to  add  (type  in  2 1),  subtract  (12),  multiplvg^  university's  network  of  UNIX  computers,  he  says, 

(13)  and  divide  (19).  ^  "we're  still  time-sharing." 

That  first  contact  occurred  in  the  basement  of  "WPI  is  nearly  unique  in  that  we  don't  p 

tton  Hall  (the  computer  was  then  the  proper-  restrictions  on  students'  use  of  the  system,"  s 

ty  of  the  Mathematical  Sciences  Department).  For  Jim  Jackson,  director  of  the  College  Computer 


Johannesen,  it  proved  the  beginning  of  a  lifelong 
fascination  with  computers,  as  well  as  a  more  than 
30-year  career  at  WPI. 

The  first  undergraduate  employee  in  the  uni- 
versity's computer  center,  Johannesen  was  a 
mechanical  engineering  major  (the  Computer  Sci- 
ence Department  would  not  be  established  until  a 
year  after  his  graduation).  Soon  after  he  was  hired 
in  1965,  he  began  exploring  the  1620's  operating 
system  disk  and  was  amazed  by  the  number  of  s 
data  errors  he  found.  He  knew  it  would  crash 
someday,  and,  sure  enough,  it  did.  Reloading  the 


Center  (CCC).  "It's  a  shared^ietwork  for  all.  If 
you  need  more  space,  you  go  see  Al." 

On  the  flip  side,  if  you  abuse  the  system, 
Johannesen  is  its  policeman,  sifting  through  alias- 
es, breaking  through  encryption  to  find  memory- 
wasting  perpetrators.  "We  have  three  to  four 
thousand  users  on  our  system,"  notes  Jackson,  "all 
at  varying  levels  of  competence  and  devilishness, 
trying  to  see  what  they  can  sneak  by." 

And  if  they're  caught,  they  have  to  go  see  Al. 
"Students  line  up  at  his  doorway  as  if  it's  a  confes- 

(Continued  on  next  page) 


IIIU— I UHUIIW MIMM 


"Please,  Sir, 

I  Want  Some  More..." 


T 


he  experience  of  facing  Johannesen  hasn't 
changed  much  in  25  years,  although  the 
spare  hut  modern  office  he  works  in  today 
m  Fuller  Laboratories  is  a  pleasant  change  from 
the  pale  green  (and  later,  bright  orange)  cinder- 
block-walled  space  he  occupied  lor  nearly  two 
decades  in  the  basement  of  Gordon  Library. 
Students  who  want  more  "quota,"  or  disk 
space,  have  to  make  their  case  in  person.  Over  the 
years,  the  memory  allocated  to  students  has  risen 
exponentially,  keeping  pace  with  the  growth  in 
the  capacity  of  the  university's  computer 
resources,  but  students  still  rind  the  need  for 
more.  Each  day,  several  stand  before  Johannesen's 
desk,  some  visibly  shaking,  as  he  takes  up  to  half 
an  hour  to  scrutinize  their  files  for  games  or 
spurious  memory  use. 

"You  could  tell  by  their  foot 
steps  that  they  wanted  more 
disk  space,"  says  Eric  Hahn 
'80,  now  a  senior  vice 


An  Accidental  Career 


J 


ohannesen  describes  his  career  as  a  series 
of  accidents,  starting  back  in  high  school. 


"You  could  tell 
by  their  footsteps  that 
[the  students]  wanted  more 
disk  space.  It  was  a  personal 
thing,  and  a  pretty  traumatic 
experience  " 
—Eric  Hahn  '80 


president  for  Netscape 
Communications 
Corp.,  who  worked 
at  the  desk  next  to 
Johannesen's  while 
he  was  an  undergrad- 
uate. "It  was  a  per- 
sonal thing,  and  a  pret- 
ty traumatic  experience. 

"He  was  universally 
feared,"  says  Greg  Scott  '77,  now 
president  of  his  own  software  company,  Scott 
Software  Systems  Inc.,  who  was  once  a  student 
employee  in  the  computer  center.  "You  wouldn't 
want  to  cross  him."  Or  cross  the  street  in  front  of 
him.  Some  students  would  even  move  to  the 
opposite  sidewalk  to  avoid  crossing  his  path,  Scott 
recalls. 

Despite  Johannesen's  gruff  reputation,  Hahn 
says,  "there  was  a  twinkle  in  his  heart.  He'd  go  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth  for  people  if  they  really 
needed  that  disk  space  or  other  help."  Notes 
Scott,  "I  recall  him  once  spending  an  entire  day  at 
a  whiteboard  helping  a  student  with  his  MQP." 

"He  really  enjoys  helping  people  solve  their 
problems  through  his  programming,"  says  Helen 
Sinister,  head  of  Gordon  Library,  where  Johan- 
nesen enabled  the  distribution  of  the  electronic 
card  catalog  over  the  campus  network  in  1989, 
making  it  available  through  desktop  terminals 
across  WPI's  campus. 

"Since  that  time,"  she  adds,  "he  has  continued 
to  work  with  the  library  and  has  created  a  whole 
menu  of  electronic  services  of  great  value  to  the 
entire  YYTI  community.  Most  recently,  he  assisted 
the  library  in  implementing  a  completely  new 
library  system." 


While  at  Daniel  1  land  I  Iigh  in  Madison, 
Conn.,  he  ended  up  in  a  typing  course-  when  he 
couldn't  get  into  another  course  he  wanted  to 
take.  It  turned  out  to  be  one  of  his  best  courses  in 
high  school,  which  astonished  him.  But,  he  says, 
"it's  what  I  rely  on  most  days." 

I  lis  arrival  at  WPI's  computer  center  was 
somewhat  accidental,  as  well.  After  graduating  in 
1968,  Johannesen  had  a  job  lined  up  with  IBM  to 
work  on  the  operating  system  for  the  company's 
360  computer.  But  a  month  before  graduation,  he 
got  a  draft  notice  from  the  U.S.  Army.  He  spent 
the  next  two  months  in  basic  training  and  then  20 
months  at  Fort  Bliss  in  El  Paso, 

Texas,  where  they  were  replac- 
ing their  IBM  1620  with  the 
newer  360.  Johannesen 
helped  with  the  conver- 
sion, reprogramming 
and  staff  training.  Pri- 
vate Johannesen  became 
a  Specialist  5,  the  tech- 
nical equivalent  of  a 
sergeant,  he  says,  only 
he  was  "a  commander  of 
machines,  not  men." 
By  1970,  the  country  was  in 
recession,  and  the  IBM  job  was 
gone.  Johannesen's  WPI  roommate, 
Lain  Johnson  '68,  had  tried  the  IBM  career 
track  himself  and  landed  back  at  WPI's  computer 
center.  He  suggested  they  recruit  AJ.  Johannesen 
decided  to  return  to  WPI  for  a  computer  science 
degree,  and  then  face  the  real  world.  "I  still 
haven't  done  it,"  he  says  with  a  wry  grin.  He  last- 
ed a  year  in  the  master's  program  and  found  he- 
enjoyed  working  more  than  studying.  For  him, 
"a  resume  was  better  than  a  degree." 

"From  day  one,  we  knew  we  had  two  gems 
with  AJ  and  Larry,"  says  Jackson,  who  was  manag- 
er of  operations  at  the  time.  "We  kept  giving  Al 
more  and  more,  and  he  took  on  more  and  more." 

During  Johannesen's  senior  year,  in  1967, 
WPI  had  established  the  Worcester  Area 
College  Computation  Center  (WACCC,  pro- 
nounced "whack"),  to  provide  computer  services 
to  a  number  of  colleges  in  Worcester,  including 
Clark  University.  Thanks  to  a  grant  from  the 
National  Science  Foundation,  the  center  was 
able  to  purchase  an  IBM  360/30,  which  had  a 
whopping  64K  of  RAM  (random  access  memo- 
ry), about  the  same  amount  personal  computers 
would  have  15  years  later. 

"It  was  immensely  expensive,"  says  Johan- 
nesen, "and  it  looked  like  a  locomotive."  Ten  feet 
long,  six  feet  high  and  about  three  feet  wide,  it 
would  fill  one  side  of  his  current  office.  People 
from  area  schools  would  bring  their  punch  cards 


WPI  JOURNAL 


17 


Al  Johannesen  had 
only  seen  computers 
in  the  movies  before 
he  encountered  the 
Mathematics  Depart- 
ments IBM  1620, 
above,  left,  as  a  WPI 
student.  When  he 
returned  to  WPI  after 
service  in  the  Army, 
he  found  that  the 
college  had  upgraded 
to  the  IBM  360  (in 
center  of  photo  at 
right),  which  had  64K 
of  RAM.  He  joined  the 
staff  of  WPI  s  com- 
puter center  and 
began  a  career  man- 
aging WPI's  academic 
computers  that  has 
now  lasted  more  than 
three  decades. 


to  WPI  to  run  them  through  the  IBM.  Clark  later 
obtained  a  remote  card  reader  and  printer,  which 
enabled  them  to  communicate  with  the  computer 
over  the  phone  lines. 

In  nine  months,  WACCC  outgrew  the  360. 
For  its  next  machine,  it  chose  the  UNWAC 
(RCA)  Spectra  70/46G,  just  as  RCA  was  poised  to 
become  a  giant  in  the  computer  industry.  Two 
years  later,  RCA  pulled  out  of  the  computer  busi- 
ness, and  WPI  bought  its  first  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.  machine,  the  PDP-10.  Its  successor,  the 
DECsystem-10,  "became  Al's  machine,"  says 
Jackson.  "Al  got  to  make  so  many  modifications 
to  the  operating  software,  we  were  accused  of 
making  it  the  WPI-DEC-10. 

And  then  came  the  WPI-DEC-20,  a  comput- 
er that  served  up  to  50  users  at  a  time  with  a 
processor  slower  than  the  Intel  286,  the  chip  that 
drove  IBM-compatible  computers  a  decade  ago. 
"With  limited  resources,  we  modified  every- 
thing," says  Scott,  who  worked  at  WACCC  when 
WPI's  computer  network  consisted  of  the  DEC- 
10  and  three  disk  drives  (which  together  had 
about  80  megabytes  of  space).  "We  were  on  con- 
stant patrol  for  disk  space." 

Adds  Johannesen,  the  machine's  main 
memory  topped  out  at  163,840  words.  "And  that 
was  core  memory,  prior  to  the  invention  of 
chips.  Every  bit  of  memory  was  a  pinhead-sized 
doughnut  of  magnetic  material  with  two  wires 
threaded  through  the  hole.  With  163,840  words 
of  memory,  each  with  38  bits  (36  data  bits  and 
two  parity  bits),  that's  6.2  million  doughnuts. 
No  wonder  that  thing  was  so  big  and  used  so 
much  power!" 

Life  in  the  Romper  Room 

The  hub  of  WACCC  activities  was  the  base- 
ment of  Gordon  Library — "the  Romper 
Room,"  Jackson  calls  it.  "For  almost  20 
years,  it  was  really  home  for  us." 


The  1970s  was  "a  good  era,"  Johannesen  says 
with  characteristic  understatement.  He  and  a 
number  of  student  employees  (and  hangers-on) 
worked  to  modify  the  center's  Digital  computers 
to  suit  WPI's  needs  (see  related  story,  page  20). 
The  WACCC  staff  soon  discovered  they  could 
make  needed  changes  faster  and  more  effectively 
than  could  Digital,  itself. 

So  they  began  to  edit  the  software.  They 
found  they  could  do  some  of  their  work  while  the 
computer  was  running.  "It  was  a  scary  time," 
recalls  Johannesen.  "That  was  the  system  we  all 
relied  on." 

"You  had  to  prove  yourself  to  be  a  good 
hacker  before  you  could  work  there,"  Scott  says. 
A  good  hacker,  he  explains,  produced  a  solution 
to  a  problem  that  was  "elegantly  done,  with  min- 
imal load  on  the  computer — work  that  others 
would  want  to  study."  Most  of  the  work  had  to 
be  done  late  on  Saturday  nights,  when  they  could 
take  down  the  system.  Another  slow  period  was 
during  Intersession  (the  winter  break  between 
Terms  B  and  C).  "That  was  a  time  for  major 
hacks,"  he  says. 

Scott  ostensibly  worked  for  WACCC  about 
10  hours  a  week,  but  typical  of  his  group  of 
friends,  he'd  be  there  "whenever  I  wasn't  in  class, 
in  The  Pub  or  sleeping." 

"These  were  bright,  hardworking,  intelligent 
kids,"  says  Johannesen.  "They  had  a  good  time 
working  and  contributing  to  the  redesign  of  the 
system  and  the  result  was  a  more  productive, 
effective  system  that  was  better,  with  features  we 
hadn't  had  before."  They  also  postponed  WPI's 
next  computer  purchase  and  secured  its  position 
as  a  beta  test  site  for  Digital,  a  distinction  WPI 
continues  to  enjoy  today.  "Any  one  of  them 
would  say  they  got  a  good  return,"  he  adds. 
"They  got  their  hands  into  that  computer, 
learned  how  it  worked  in  ways  they  wouldn't 
learn  in  a  classroom." 

Hahn  agrees.  "Al  taught  me  the  notion  of 
real-world  pragmatism,"  he  says.  "As  an  under- 


18 


Summer  1997 


SHjH 


From  its  early  IBM 
machines,  WPI  moved 
on  to  an  RCA  Spectra, 
far  left,  before  getting 
its  first  Digital  Equip- 
ment system  (that's  Jim 
Jackson,  now  director 
of  the  College  Computer 
Center).  A  constant 
through  Johannesen's 
career  has  been  a 
stream  of  students 
driven  to  learn  all  they 
could  about  WPI's  com- 
puters. For  many  years, 
their  haunt — night  and 
day — was  the  lower  level 
of  Gordon  Library,  left, 
where  the  computers 
and  terminals  resided. 


graduate,  you  learn  theory,  not  practice.  Al  want- 
ed to  make  sure  the  system  ran  fast,  was  easy  to 
use,  and  had  the  right  documentation.  He's  some- 
thing of  a  perfectionist." 

Johannesen  also  shared  with  Hahn  the  per- 
sonal joy  he  took  in  developing  software.  "I  was  an 
apprentice  to  a  master  in  the  craft,"  I  lahn  says. 

Parsimonious  Porsche  Owner 

Another  source  of  joy  in  Johannesen's  life 
has  been  exotic  cars.  "Other  than  WPI's 
computers,  cars  have  been  his  obsession," 
says  Scott.  Yet,  as  with  his  computers,  he  strives 
to  use  his  vehicles  in  the  most  efficient  and  frugal 
manner.  With  some  reluctance,  Johannesen 
admits  that  two  years  ago,  he  bought  a  "very 
used"  '87  Porsche  91 1  Carrera  Cabriolet.  He 
belongs  to  the  Porsche  Club  of  New  England, 
"but  only  for  the  discounts."  He  says  he  often  car- 
pools  or  bikes  the  eight  miles  to  work  from  his 
home  in  Rochdale  to  save  wear  and  tear  on  his 
only  car. 

While  owning  a  Porsche  was  always  his 
dream,  in  the  past  he's  had  (in  succession)  a  Volk- 
swagen beetle,  a  1973  BMW  20()2tii,  a  1979  red 
Chevy  pick-up  truck,  a  1984  Alfa  Romeo  GTV6, 
and  a  5 -liter  Mustang.  He's  also  got  a  motorcycle 
"rusting  away"  in  his  garage.  Almost  as  an  aside, 
he  mentions  that  he  once  rode  it  to  Key  West  and 
back,  and  later,  halfway  across  Canada.  As  warm 
weather  approaches,  "I  still  get  that  twinge  and  I 
think,  i  should  go  to  work  on  that  bike,'"  he  says. 
"But  then  again,  I  do  have  a  convertible." 

Over  the  years,  Johannesen  has  done  many 
projects  for  WPI  that  went  far  beyond  his  job 
description.  His  work  on  the  library  card  catalog 
is  one  example.  Another  is  the  Alumni  Gateway, 
a  Web-based  alumni  information  service  he  built 
tor  the  WPI  Alumni  Association.  According  to 
Sharon  Davis,  former  director  of  Alumni  Affairs, 
and  now  major  gifts  officer,  his  work  on  that  pro- 
ject was  voluntary  and  "incredibly  responsive." 


She  explained  to  him  one  da\  the  problems 
WPI  had  had  with  a  previous  system,  and  Johan- 
nesen just  nodded  and  said,  "Let  me  think  about 
this."  About  a  week  later,  he  told  her  he  had 
"something  up  on  the  system;  take  a  look."  1  le 
had  created  the  prototype  Web  page  that  would 
let  alumni  post  class  notes,  update  their  entries 
in  the  Alumni  Directory,  list  job  openings,  and 
e-mail  friends  and  colleagues  through  a  WPI 
address. 

"Anytime  I  or  another  user  suggested  other 
things  that  might  be  useful  on  the  gateway,"  says 
Davis,  "Al  would  have  the  same  general  response: 
'Let  me  think  about  it,'  and  a  few  days  later,  'I've 
got  something  up,  see  what  you  think.'" 

The  Alumni  Gateway  officially  "opened"  in 
May  1996  and  since  then  has  had  more  than 
18,000  visits  from  alumni.  Johannesen  continues 
to  add  new  features  regularly  that  expand  its  use- 
fulness. A  stack  of  e-mail  generated  by  alumni 
through  the  gateway  stands  at  least  two  feet  high 
in  the  Alumni  Office,  representing  more  written 
alumni  contacts  than  Davis  had  received  in  all  ot 
her  previous  seven  years  on  the  job. 

"It's  the  most  dynamic  communications  vehi- 
cle we've  ever  had,"  she  says.  "Al  has  made  it  as 
easy  as  humanly  possible.  He's  a  very  sophisti- 
cated, savvy  systems  guy." 

And  WPI  is  fortunate  to  have  kept  him  so 
long.  Why  has  he  stayed?  For  the  simple  reason 
that  he  likes  what  he  does,  he  says. 

"I  biew  I  could  make  more  in  the  private 
sector,  but  I  like  the  job,"  says  Johannesen.  Over 
the  years,  a  number  of  WPI  alumni  who've  gone 
on  to  become  senior  managers — or  founders — 
of  successful  companies  from  New  York  to  Cali- 
fornia have  tried  to  lure  him  away,  but  they've 
always  heard  the  same  response. 

"I'm  pretty  happy  where  I  am,"  he  says. 
"There's  not  a  whole  lot  I  would  change." 

— Chisolm  is  a  freelance  writer  living  in  I  I  orcester, 
whose  articles  appear  frequently  in  the  Journal. 


WPI  Journal 


19 


A 


y^i 


U   .mill 
Hill 

31    i  in 


I!  1111 


^ 


0*  >> 


--K- 


1 


G« 


<$\ 


7* 


c 


L 


-d 


Vil 


"    "  i- 


-[- 


Vm. 


The 
Golden 

Age  of 

Hocking 

Bu  Joon  Killough-Miller 
Illustrations  by  Corlo  Ventresco. 


^%~ 


A 


3* 


..  , -  -g 


■sa 


KB"*- 

111 


)- 


enaHann 


In  the  1970s,  a  small  band  of 
UUPI  students  got  turned  on  by 
something  new  and  revolution- 
ary and  went  underground. 
There,  these  zealots  spent 
huge  amounts  of  time,  out  oP 
the  public  eye,  pursuing  their 
radical  interests.  But  these 
were  not  your  typical  revolu- 
tionaries. The  "underground" 
they  practically  lived  in  was 
the  windowless  bottom  Ploor  oP 
Gordon  Library,  home  then  to 
WFICCC,  the  Worcester  Area 
College  Computational  Center, 
find  the  novelty  to  which  they 
were  irresistibly  drawn  was 
the  world  oP  mainPrame  com- 
puters— including  the  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.  PDP-10,  on 
which  many  oP  these  early 
hackers  cut  their  computing 
teeth. 


ft 


ut  don't  mistake  these  hackers  for  "crackers,"  the  modern-day 
miscreants  who  worm  their  way  into  computers,  hoping  for  a 


crack  in  the  program  code  that  will  let  them  commit  evil  deeds. 
Nothing  angers  a  true  hacker  more  than  being  contused  with  these 
cybercriminals.  Back  in  the  "golden  age  of  hacking,"  the  passion  for 
programming  was  more  innocent. 

Devotees  of  the  PDP-10  swallowed  its  TOPS- 10  instruction  set 
whole,  and  spent  every  tree  moment  (and  often  entire  nights  and 
weekends)  clustered  around  a  console.  I  lacker  communities  were 
evoking  at  colleges  across  the  country  and  developing  a  distinctive  jar- 
gon and  culture  that  was  transmitted  over  ARPANKT,  the  predecessor 
of  the  Internet.  Although  WPI  was  not  connected  to  this  early  net- 
work, the  campus  was  still  a  reputable  stronghold  of  hacker  culture  in 
the  70s,  supporting  a  cast  of  eccentric  characters  who  had  their  own 
heroes  (,u\{\  anti-heroes),  a  local  dialect,  and  even  epic  literature. 

"We  were  a  self-respecting  crew — a  complete  community  on 
our  own,"  says  Andy  Tannenbaum  78,  a  system  architect  with  Cable- 
Soft  Corporation  in  Burlington,  Vt.,  who  manages  the  "WPI  Hackers 
of  the  70s"  site  on  the  World  Wide  Web  (www.wpi.edu/~trb/ 
hacker70s.html).  "We  had  something  the  bigger  schools  didn't. 
At  WPI,  undergraduates  had  free,  unlimited  access  to  time-sharing. 
Thai  was  unheard  of  at  most  schools.  It  made  us  free  to  explore  and 
experiment,  regardless  of  our  course  of  study." 

In  fact,  most  of  the  exploration  went  on  outside  of  courses  in  com- 
puter science,  which  hackers  studied  for  background,  but  rarely  as  a 
major.  "You  learned  as  much  sitting  around  the  table  in  the  cafeteria 
as  you  did  in  classes,"  Tannenbaum  recalls.  "It  was  like  ancient  Greek 
times,  when  Socrates  would  talk  and  his  disciples  would  sit  and  listen, 
only  Socrates  was  Greg  Walsh."  Walsh,  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
1976,  is  a  founding  member  of  Epiphany  Marketing  Software  in 
Mountain  View,  Calif.  He  is  remembered  as  a  quiet  but  talented  engi- 
neer who  had  a  genius  for  hacking  everything  he  touched,  from  tele- 
phones to  car  transmissions.  It  was  an  accepting,  unselfish  community, 
with  mentors  like  Rich  Rupp  78,  now  an  executive  with  Donnelley 
Enterprise  Solutions  Inc.,  who  wrote  a  program  called  "Lesson"  to 
initiate  younger  hackers  in  the 
mysteries  of  TOPS- 10. 

Legends  of  the 
elders  live  on  in  the 
memories  of  other 
hackers,  and  now  also  on  the 
World  Wide  Web,  where 
hacker  ballads,  poems  and  sto- 
ries (often  with  cross-references 
and  glossaries)  share  an  interna- 
tional audience.  Hacker  versions 
of  popular  songs  and  Christmas 
carols  written  at  WPI  by  Rich 
Holmes  77,  AJ  Corda  77 
and  David  Kinder  77  have 
traveled  around  the 
world.  Within  minutes 
of  a  request  from  the 
Journal,  Holmes, 


Opposite,  clockwise  from  top  left,  with  memorabilia  from  the  DEC  10.  are 
Andy  Tannenbaum  78,  Harley  Privitera  '76,  Al  Johannesen  '68  and  Greg 
Walsh  '76.  Walsh,  a  hacker's  hacker,  was  a  mentor  to  many  students 
(above).  "It  was  like  ancient  Greek  times,  when  Socrates  would  talk  and  his 
disciples  would  listen.  Only  Socrates  was  Greg  Walsh." 


WTI  JOURNAL 


21 


J 


n  common  prank 

was  to  leave  a  bit 

of  graffiti,  altering 

a  corporation's 

welcome  screen  in 

some  silly  way. 

The  hackers  looked 

on  this  as  providing 

a  free  service — 

warning  system 

managers  to 

improve  security. 


now  a  graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Mary- 
land, was  able  to  locate  and  download  some 
favorites  from  a  web  site  in  Germany,  including 
"Magtapes  Roasting  on  a  Open  Fire,"  "Away  in 
QMANGR,"  and  "The  Twelve  Days  of  Uptime." 
The  trio's  epic  work,  "The  Adventures  of  the 
Lone  Perkins,"  captures  the  spirit  of  the  times  in  a 
takeoff  on  the  old  "Lone  Ranger"  radio  drama. 
"Lone  Perkins"  refers  to  Ed  Perkins  '72,  a  former 
manager  of  operations  at  WACCC  who  is  now  a 
software  engineer  with  Integrated  Measurement 
Systems  Inc.  in  Beaverton,  Ore.  Al  Johannesen  '68 
also  appears  as  "Joe  Hansen."  Johannesen,  who 
remains  at  WPI  as  Managing  Senior  UNIX  Sys- 
tem Administrator,  is  considered  a  "spiritual 
father"  by  several  generations  of  hackers  who 
worked  under  him  at  WACCC  (see  story,  page 
16).  Once  an  intimidating  authority  figure  who 
doled  out  additional  disk  allocation  only  to 
deserving  students,  he  now  holds  the  family 
together  by  hosting  a  weekly  hacker  happy  hour 
called  WACCC  Night. 

The  arch  villain  of  the  Lone  Perkins  saga  was 
Marc  Ramsey,  or  "The  Great  Ramsey."  Ramsey, 
who  was  actually  expelled  from  WPI  as  a  fresh- 
man (temporarily,  it  turns  out)  tor  overzealous 
hacking  that  crossed  the  border  into  cracking,  is 
quick  to  point  out  that  the  Lone  Perkins  story  is 
much  embellished,  and  that 
certain  events  and  characters 
have  been  compounded 
for  dramatic  effect.  The 
dissent  of  the  1970s  has 
mellowed  into  friendship. 
Ramsey,  now  vice  pres- 
ident of  Vite  Inc.  in 
Stanford,  Calif., 
a  startup  software 
firm  developing 
project  manage- 
ment systems, 
proudly  posts  all 
eight  episodes  of 
"Lone  Perkins" 
on  his  web  site 


(www.ranlog.com/ramsey/lp.html),  and  joins  the 
hackers  for  WACCC  Night  when  business  brings 
him  to  the  East  Coast. 

Although  hacking,  by  definition,  means  going 
beyond  the  established  order,  a  hacker  ethic  of 
integrity  and  cooperation  prevailed  in  the  1970s, 
according  to  Megan  Gentry  '79,  now  a  senior 
software  engineer  for  Digital  Equipment  Corpo- 
ration, where  she  worked  during  her  last  two  years 
at  WPI  as  a  DECsystem-10  operator.  "Many  peo- 
ple tried  to  subvert  the  protections  on  the  system 


in  order  to  log  out  over  quota  [students  were  allo- 
cated a  measly  100  blocks  of  disk  space],"  she 
recalls.  "Some  succeeded,  including  myself.  I  like 
to  think  that  those  who  typified  the  hacker  ethic 
were  the  ones  who  reported  how  they  did  it,  so 
that  it  could  be  corrected."  [WPI  was,  at  that 
time,  a  test  site  for  Digital's  TOPS- 10  operating- 
system.] 

This  didn't  stop  hackers  from  breaking  into 
computers  at  other  colleges  and  corporations  in 
nondestructive  ways.  A  common  prank  was  to 
leave  a  bit  of  graffiti — for  example,  altering  a 
corporation's  welcome  screen  in  some  silly  way. 
The  hackers  looked  on  this  as  providing  a  free 
service — warning  system  managers  to  improve 
security. 

"The  fun  thing  for  us  wasn't  so  much  break- 
ing in,  but  figuring  out  cool,  new  ways  to  break 
in,"  says  Tannenbaum.  "If  you  break  in  with 
stolen  passwords,  without  understanding  how 
you  did  it. ..that's  sort  of  like  filling  in  a  crossword 
puzzle  when  you  have  the  answers  in  front  of 
you,  or  picking  a  lock  with  a  key  that  someone 
copied  for  you."  Tannenbaum  contends  that  this 
lock-picking  was  actually  good  career  prepara- 
tion— especially  for  those  who  now  write  security 
systems. 

The  WACCC  denizens  took  time  to  play,  but 
even  everyday  games  like  hide-and-seek  involved 
computers.  A  small  hacker  could  hide  inside  the 
drum  cabinet  of  the  RCA  Spectra,  or  in  the  myste- 
rious "WACCC  hole."  Greg  Scott  admits  that  he 
rigged  the  game  with  an  impromptu  program  that 
illuminated  the  PDP-10's  banks  of  status  lights 
when  it  was  his  turn  to  seek,  and  darkened  the 
room  as  much  as  possible  when  it  was  his  turn  to 
hide.  Other  pastimes  included  trying  to  spell  out 
derogatory  messages  on  the  status  light  display, 
replacing  the  notice.txt  (daily  messages)  file  with 
something  spicier,  and  of  course,  trying  to  seize 
control  of  the  system  through  any  means  possible. 
Standard  punishment  for  getting  caught  was  being 
"canned" — having  your  user  account  canceled. 

Because  computer  courses  were  not  required, 
and  computer  literacy  wasn't  a  prerequisite  for 
anything  in  the  early  1970s,  those  who  played 
with  computers  did  it  for  love,  not  riches.  "You 
weren't  going  to  make  your  million  in  program- 
ming in  those  days,"  Tannenbaum  laughs.  "We 
hackers  were  pretty  low  on  the  engineering  totem 
pole.  Of  course,  every  last  one  of  those  engineers 
in  'respectable'  fields  ended  up  becoming  a  slave 
to  computers,  so  we  hackers  got  the  last  laugh!" 

Was  it  really  the  golden  age?  Every  group 
that  passes  though  WPI  feels  nostalgia  for  the 
good  old  days,  but  Johannesen,  a  veteran  of  three 
decades  of  change,  says  there  are  some  factors  that 
made  the  hacker's  work  in  the  1970s  more  rigor- 
ous and  more  rewarding. 

"Today's  computer  software  is  distributed  on 
CDs,  in  an  unchangeable  binary  form.  Dealing 


11 


SUMMER  1997 


isnmjrac 


with  the  system  is  just  a  matter  of  pointing  a 
mouse  and  clicking  on  a  fixed  list  of  options.  II 
something  goes  wrong,  all  you  can  do  is  scratch 
your  head,"  he  says.  But  in  the  days  of  the  PDP- 
10,  Digital  also  distributed  the  source  code  for  its 
software,  which  meant  that  programs  could  he- 
al te  red. 

Under  Johannesen,  a  corps  of  work-study 
students  tinkered  with  the  campus's  central  acad- 
emic and  research  computer — a  heady  rcsponsi- 
hilitv  for  mere  students.  Their  modifications 
allowed  YVPI  to  support  its  entire  student  body 
and  much  of  its  staff — up  to  50  users  at  a  time- 
on  the  modest  capacity  of  a  single  PDP-10.  "We 
ran  the  PDP-10  for  eight  years,  a  ridiculously 
long  time  by  today's  standards,"  Johannesen  says. 
"By  the  time  that  computer  was  removed  from 
WPI,  mavhc  as  much  as  50  percent  of  the  soft- 
ware had  heen  customized."  He  adds  that  the 
students  were  working  directly  in  assembly  lan- 
guage, a  challenge  that  is  now  pretty  much 
extinct.  These  days,  most  programmers  work  in 
higher-level  languages,  such  as  C. 

As  the  computer  age  evolves,  affordable 
hardware  with  ample  memory  makes  life  easier 
for  programmers  and  users.  But  in  the  1970s,  the 
high  cost  of  core  memory  demanded  tight  pro- 
gramming, in  which  every  character  counts.  "Back 
then,"  recalls  Tannenbaum,  "if  a  computer  pro- 
gram could  he  modified  to  run  faster,  thus  making 
it  cheaper  to 
use,  it  didn't 
really  matter 
how  it  treated 
the  person." 
Programmers 
were  expend- 
able— cheap 
labor,  indefa- 
tigable John 
I  lenrvs,  who 
worked  with 
their  hands, 
so  to  speak. 


Eric  I  lahn  'SO,  known  as  a  crackerjack  pro- 
grammer and  entrepreneur  even  in  his  student 
days,  agrees.  "It  was  a  different  era,"  says  I  lahn, 
who  in  1995  sold  his  successful  software  company, 
Collabra  Software  Inc.,  to  Netscape  Communica- 
tions Inc.,  where  he  is  now  senior  vice  president 
for  enterprise  technologies.  "The  tools  were  fat- 
more  crude  and  esoteric.  Modern  PC  software  is 
neat,  very  neat — hut  also  quite  antiseptic."  Some 
hackers  of  the  '70s  generation  are  encouraged  by 
the  development  of  the  Web,  where  they  find 
innovation,  after  a  lackluster  period  of  uninspiring 
computing.  The  Web  also  plays  an  important  role 
in  keeping  alive  hacker  history  and  culture,  and  in 
sustaining  the  friendships  forged  at  WACCC  two 
decades  ago. 

"It  was  our  software  fraternity,"  says  Tannen- 
baum, who  points  out  that  the  group's  loyalty  has 
endured  without  any  official  organization  or  cam- 
pus affiliation.  More  than  100  people  from  all  over 
the  country  flocked  to  Worcester  for  a  hacker 
reunion  held  at  the  Mandarin  Room  of  the  Shera- 
ton-Lincoln Inn  in  1981.  These  days,  the  locals- 
man)  of  whom  now  staff  WPI's  College  Computer 
Center  in  Fuller  Labs — still  gather  with  Johan- 
nesen on  WACCC  Night  at  watering  holes  around 
Worcester  County.  Those  who  have  migrated  to 
the  Silicon  Valley  and  other  parts  of  the  world 
drop  by  on  occasion,  to  tip  a  brew  with  comrades 
in  memory  of  the  golden  age  of  hacking  at  WPI. 


€ven  everyday 
gomes  like  hide- 
and-seek  involved 
computers,  fl  small 
hacker  could  hide 
inside  the  drum 
cabinet  of  the 
RCfi  Spectra,  or 
in  the  mysterious 
WfKCC  hole." 


RC4 


WPI  Journal 


iK1_ 


IN  STUMBLING  UPON 

ONEOFTHE  BIGGEST 

SOFTWARE  BUGS 

IN  REGENT  MEMORY, 

PAUL  GREENE '98 

JUST  MAY  HAVE  WON 

HIMSELF  A  PLAGE  IN 

THE  HAGKER  HALL 

OF  FAME.  HERE'S  HOW 

HE  FOUND  A  FLAW 

INMIGROSOFTS 

INTERNET  EXPLORER. 


O  A'v  V  U  Vli 


ExpLOHEt  Bug 


L  S'VO  l\  V 


BY  BONNIE  GELBWASSER 


At  10:10  p.m.  on  Thursday,  Feb.  27, 
1997,  WPI  student  Paul  Greene  clicked 
his  mouse  and  catapulted  himself  into 
Microsoft-  and  computer-history.  "All 
I  wanted  to  do  was  connect  to  my  Web  page," 
says  Greene,  a  28-year-old  senior  majoring  in 
electrical  engineering.  "Instead,  I  discovered  a 
bug  in  Microsoft's  Internet  Explorer  software 
that  could  allow  anyone  to  build  a  booby  trap 
into  a  Web  page." 

What  Greene  discovered  was  a  flaw  that  cre- 
ated a  serious  security  breech  in  one  of  the  most 
widely  used  Web  browsers — software  applications 
that  enable  computer  users  to  harvest  the  vast 
bounty  of  information  and  multimedia  content 
available  through  the  World  Wide  Web.  The  bug 
could  enable  unethical  Web  designers  to  reach 
into  your  computer  from  across  the  miles  and 
retrieve  information,  delete  files  and  generally 
wreak  havoc — all  without  your  being  aware,  until 
it  was  too  late.  It  was  like  giving  potential  burglars 
a  key  to  your  front  door. 

Greene  never  expected  his  discovery  to 
become  big  news.  But  within  four  days,  he  and  his 
roommates  had  been  profiled  by  countless  news- 
papers and  trade  journals  in  the  U.S.  and  Canada, 
had  been  interviewed  on  national  television  news 
programs,  and  had  seen  their  own  site  on  the 
World  Wide  Web  accessed  over  100,000  times 
(that  number  would  grow  more  than  sevenfold 
within  two  months). 

Things  began  innocently  enough.  "I  was 
•working  on  my  IQP,"  Greene  says.  "It  was  an 
evaluation  of  the  freshman  orientation  program 
that  WPI  developed  for  the  Class  of  2000.  There 
were  four  of  us  on  the  project  team,  all  working 
on  different  parts  of  our  report.  Sharing  a  floppy 
disk  wasn't  practical,  and  since  we'd  all  had  expe- 
rience developing  Web  pages,  we  decided  to  cre- 
ate a  page  where  we  could  post  our  files  for  every- 
one to  see  and  edit." 

Greene  had  stored  his  files  in  a  directory  [or 
folder]  on  his  computer.  Rather  than  copying  the 
whole  folder  onto  the  Web  page  he  was  sharing 
with  his  project  team,  he  created  a  shortcut  to 
the  folder  and  posted  that.  "A  shortcut  is  a  con- 
venient feature  in  Microsoft's  Windows  95," 
Greene  says.  "It's  just  a  tiny  file  that  points  to  a 
big  one.  They're  simple  to  make,  and  you  can 
put  them  anywhere  on  your  system  where  you 
can  access  a  file." 


Greene's  shortcut  was  not  to  a  file,  but  to  a 
directory  full  of  files.  Ordinarily,  ii  you  create  a 
shortcut  to  a  folder  and  then  click  on  it,  Windows 
95  will  launch  the  program  Windows  Explorer, 
which  will  then  open  the  folder  and  display  its 
contents.  But  Web  pages  are  not  supposed  to  be 
able  to  run  programs  on  your  computer,  at  least 
not  without  first  securing  your  permission.  When 
he  clicked  on  the  shortcut  he'd  placed  on  the  Web 
page  using  his  browser,  Microsoft's  Internet 
Explorer,  Greene  fully  expected  the  browser  to 
warn  him  that  the  Web  page  was  about  to  take 
undue  liberties  with  his  computer.  But  it  didn't. 
"When  I  clicked  on  it,  much  to  my  surprise,  Win- 
dows Explorer  started,  and  listed  all  the  files  I'd 
put  there. 

"I  began  experimenting.  I  made  a  shortcut  to 
the  Solitaire  card  game  that  comes  with  Windows, 
put  the  shortcut  on  my  Web  page,  clicked  on  it, 
and,  sure  enough,  the  Solitaire  game  actually 
started.  At  this  point,  I  knew  I'd  found  something 
unusual.  I'd  never  heard  of  anything  like  this.  My 
first  thought  was,  'Could  I  possibly  be  the  only 
one  in  the  world  to  have  discovered  this  flaw?'" 

It  turns  out  he  was.  "I  still  can't  believe  it," 
he  says.  "Companies  run  their  products  through 
rigorous  tests  before  they  are  marketed.  I  think 
that  the  reason  this  flaw  was  not  caught  is  that 
Microsoft  never  checked  it  out  at  this  basic  level. 
What  I  did  was  something  anyone  could  do  inad- 
vertently. The  difference  is  that  I  recognized  it  as 
a  major  security  threat." 

What  Greene  had  discovered  was  a  flaw  in 
Microsoft's  browser,  which  works  widi  the  Win- 
dows 95  and  Windows  NT  operating  systems.  It 
is  also  the  browser  used  by  millions  of  subscribers 
to  America  Online.  The  bug  could  allow  a  Web 
site  operator  to  secretly  run  programs,  delete 
files,  copy  passwords  and  software — even  transfer 
money — on  someone  else's  computer,  and  damage 
software  stored  on  a  hard  drive. 

To  accomplish  all  this,  the  site  operator  would 
make  use  of  standard  programs  that  come  pack- 
aged with  Windows,  including  programs  that  can 
create,  edit  and  delete  information,  files  that  con- 
tain information  your  computer  needs  to  operate 
properly,  and  directories  where  popular  programs 
like  Microsoft  Word  store  documents  you  create. 
By  using  a  Windows  Internet  shortcut  file  (known 
as  a  "url  file")  rather  than  a  standard  shortcut  file 
(a  "Ink  file"),  a  Web  page  designer  wouldn't  even 


"WHAT  I  DID 
WAS  SOMETHING 
ANYONE  COULD 
DO  INADVER- 
TENTLY.   THE 
DIFFERENCE  IS 
THAT  I  RECOG- 
NIZED IT  AS  A 
MAJOR  SECURITY 
THREAT." 
-PAUL  GREENE '98 


WPI  JOURNAL 


25 


"I  CALLED  IN  MY 
ROOMMATES, 
WHO  ARE  BOTH 
COMPUTER 
SCIENCE  MAJORS. 
THEY  WERE 
AMAZED.    I  COULD 
HAVE  RUN  PRO- 
GRAMS ON  THE 
COMPUTER  OF 
ANYONE  WHO 
VISITED  MY 
WEB  PACE." 


Paul  Greene,  center, 

with  roommates 

Brian  Morin,  left,  and 

Geoffrey  Elliott  not 

long  after  news  of  the 

Internet  Explorer  bug 

hit  the  national  media. 


have  to  know  the  exact  location  ot  those  programs 
and  files,  since  a  .url  file  can  hunt  them  down.  To 
make  matters  worse,  designers  can  use  a  program- 
ming language  called  Java  and  a  Web  publishing 
tool  known  as  the  META  refresh  tag  in  combina- 
tion with  shortcuts  to  execute  a  sequence  of  com- 
mands and  to  launch  a  shortcut  without  the  user 
having  to  do  anything. 

The  bug  represented  a  serious  security  risk.  It 
affected  only  users  of  the  Microsoft  browser 
designed  for  Windows  95  and  NT.  Users  of  other 
versions  of  Windows  or  other  browsers,  such  as 
Netscape  Communications  Corp's  Navigator,  were 
not  affected.  Still,  with  45  million  users  of  the 
affected  versions  of  Internet  Explorer,  the  flaw  had 
the  potential  to  cause  problems  on  a  large  scale. 
The  moment  he  realized  what  he'd  found, 
Greene  began  searching  security  Web  sites  to  see 
if  anyone  else  had  discovered  the  flaw.  "By  10:30, 
when  I  wasn't  able  to  find  anything  that  even 
resembled  what  I  had  discovered,  I  was  on  pins 
and  needles,"  he  says.  "I  called  in  my  roommates, 
who  are  both  computer  science  majors." 

Geoffrey 
Elliott,  22,  of  Ver- 
non, Vt.,  is  vice 
president  and  chief 
technology  develop- 
er tor  Harvest 
Webmasters  Inc.,  a 
Worcester-based 
Internet  service 
company.  Brian 
Morin,  20,  of 
Nashua,  N.H., 
writes  Web  server 
software  in  his  spare 
time — just  for  the  fun  of  it.  "They  were  amazed," 
Greene  says.  "We  began  brainstorming  about 
what  could  be  done  with  this  bug.  I  could  have 
run  programs  on  the  computer  of  anyone  who 
visited  my  Web  page." 

The  students  stayed  up  until  4  a.m.  talking 
about  the  discovery.  Later  that  day  they  construct- 
ed a  Web  page  with  nondestructive  demonstrations 
to  prove  to  Microsoft  that  Greene  had  indeed  dis- 
covered a  flaw  in  the  browser.  They  put  it  on  a 
Web  site  they  maintain  called  Cybersnot  Industries 
(the  flaw  has  since  come  to  be  known  as  the 
"Cybersnot  Bug"). 

The  page  they  created  included  dramatic 
(though  safe)  demonstrations  of  the  kinds  of 
breeches  the  bug  made  possible.  For  example, 
clicking  on  one  link  would  cause  the  calendar  pro- 
gram to  start  running  on  a  user's  computer. 
Another  link  created  and  deleted  a  directory,  and 
then  copied  a  batch  file  (a  file  containing  a  set  of 
instructions)  onto  the  user's  computer  and  ran  it. 
Among  other  actions,  the  file  opened  the  comput- 
er's autoexec.bat  and  config.sys  files  (which  con- 
tain instructions  that  help  the  computer  start  up 
and  run  normally). 


26 


Having  proved  their  case,  they  alerted 
Microsoft  with  an  e-mail  message  and  waited.  It 
was  now  Friday  afternoon.  "We  never  heard  from 
Microsoft,"  Greene  says.  "Either  it  fell  through 
the  cracks  or  they  didn't  believe  I'd  found  any- 
thing. By  Sunday,  we  realized  that  this  was  huge 
and  that  we  could  no  longer  keep  quiet  about  it. 
We  decided  to  go  public  and  tell  everyone  about 
the  flaw.  This  way,  we  figured,  people  could  be 
careful  until  Microsoft  created  a  fix.  Up  to  this 
point,  only  the  three  of  us,  Microsoft,  and  a  cou- 
ple of  other  WPI  students  knew  what  we  had." 

The  students  released  the  information  to  a 
couple  of  trade  journals  and  individuals.  Although 
they  didn't  know  it  at  the  time,  they  had  just 
unleashed  the  first  snowflakes  of  what  would 
become  an  avalanche  of  publicity. 

On  Sunday  evening,  Bob  Trout,  a  reporter  for 
the  weekly  magazine  InfoWorld,  e-mailed  Greene, 
Morin  and  Elliott  a  series  of  questions.  The  stu- 
dents also  gave  Trout  permission  to  quote  them. 
"Being  completely  naive,"  says  Greene,  "we  fig- 
ured that  Trout  would  write  the  story,  contact 
Microsoft  and  that  would  be  the  end  of  it.  We 
thought  only  the  trade  journals  would  be  interest- 
ed. We  never  thought  it  would  be  this  big." 

InfoWorld  put  the  story  on  its  Web  page  and 
the  Associated  Press  picked  it  up  and  put  it  out  on 
the  national  news  wire.  Almost  immediately,  the 
bug  began  making  headlines  everywhere.  The 
storm  of  publicity  started  with  an  on-air  interview 
with  a  Los  Angeles  radio  station  on  Sunday  night. 
"We  were  so  unprepared  for  all  of  this,"  Greene 
says.  "The  requests  for  interviews  began  coming 
in  and  we  said,  'Sure,  we'll  talk.'" 

The  pressure  escalated  as  the  evening  wore  on. 
NBC  called  to  ask  the  three  to  go  on  the  air  live 
the  following  morning  on  MSNBC,  the  network's 
cable  news  service.  The  request  surprised  Greene 
because  the  network  is  partially  owned  by 
Microsoft,  whose  oversight  they  were  exposing. 
"We  were  on  Cloud  9,"  Greene  says,  "in  the  midst 
of  a  natural  high.  We  didn't  sleep  at  all  that  night." 

Greene  managed  to  get  to  his  9  a.m.  class  on 
Monday  before  a  limousine  whisked  the  trio  to 
Watertown,  Mass.  Word  about  the  discovery 
began  to  get  out  to  the  campus  community  after 
Greene  asked  his  professor  for  an  extension  for  his 
project  and  the  professor  announced  it  to  the  class. 

The  team  spent  more  than  12  hours  on 
Monday  giving  interviews  from  a  studio  in 
Watertown.  As  a  result,  the  discovery  was  dis- 
cussed on  CNN's  Moneyline,  the  Boston  affil- 
iates of  CBS  and  NBC  news,  the  Canadian 
Broadcasting  Company,  and  CNBC.  Stories 
also  ran  in  The  Boston  Globe,  The  New  York  Times, 
USA  Today,  Mass  High  Tech  and  other  major 
newspapers  and  magazines.  WPI  President 
Edward  Parrish  read  the  news  in  a  local  edition 
of  USA  Today  while  on  a  business  trip  in  Egypt. 

Greene  took  a  break  from  the  media  frenzy  to 
alert  his  parents,  William  and  Collette  Stowell  of 

SUMMER  1997 


Tiverton,  R.I.,  that  their  son  was  about  to  become 
front-page  news.  "My  parents  both  work,  so  all  I 
could  do  was  leave  a  message  on  their  answering 
machine,"  says  Greene.  "I  said,  i  li,  this  is  Paul. 
I'm  going  to  be  famous.'  My  mother  had  no  idea 
how  to  reach  me  and  she  always  assumes  the 
worst.  She  didn't  relax  until  she  saw  me  on  the 
evening  news." 

Back  at  WPI,  the  News  Service  was  swamped 
with  requests  for  interviews,  the  students'  phones 
didn't  stop  ringing,  and  the  page  the  students  had 
created  to  announce  the  bug  was  absorbing  thou- 
sands of  "hits."  And  through  all  this  frenzy,  the 
students  still  hadn't  heard  from  Microsoft.  "We 
figured  that  since  MSNBC  was  partially  owned  by 
Microsoft,  the  company  would  sent  a  representa- 
tive to  talk  to  us,  hut  they  didn't." 

It  turns  out  that  just  as  they  were  settling  in 
before  the  cameras  and  microphones  in  Water- 
town,  Microsoft  was  trying  to  contact  them  by 
phone  and  e-mail.  The  company  had  finally  recog- 
nized the  seriousness  of  the  flaw  and  was  busy  try- 
ing to  create  a  fix  for  the  problem.  The  first  version 
of  a  patch  for  Internet  Explorer  appeared  in 
Microsoft's  Web  site  the  next  day.  Before  it  was 
released,  Microsoft  asked  Greene,  Elliott  and 
Morin  to  try  it  out.  More  recently,  Microsoft 
released  newer  versions  of  the  program  that  have 
this  and  other  bug  fixes  built  in  (see  box,  this  page). 

After  the  commotion  subsided,  the  trio  was 
invited  to  visit  Microsoft  headquarters  in  Red- 
mond, Wash.,  to  discuss  the  possibility  of  doing 
internships  for  the  company'.  Elliot  and  Morin 
worked  for  the  company  this  summer,  while 
Greene  accepted  a  summer  internship  at 
Lockheed-Martin  in  Nashua,  N.I  I. 

A  native  of  Fall  River,  Mass..  ( rreene  took  a 
few  detours  on  the  road  to  WPI.  After  graduating 
from  high  school,  he  attended  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Amherst,  for  a  semester  before 
joining  the  Navy.  Five  years  on  an  aircraft  carrier, 
including  a  tour  during  the  Gulf  War,  convinced 
him  to  return  to  school,  and  he  enrolled  at  Bristol 
.Community  College  in  1994.  His  chemistry  pro- 
fessor, Cynthia  Hahn,  encouraged  him  to  pursue 
a  four-year  degree,  and  so  he  applied  to  WPI, 
where  he  was  accepted  in  1996  as  a  computer 
engineering  major  in  the  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering  Department.  Flis  interests  are  in 
computer  hardware  and  software  design. 

After  experiencing  the  isolation,  close  quarters 
and  regimentation  of  life  on  an  aircraft  carrier,  in  a 
potentially  life-threatening  assignment,  there's  not 
much  that  overwhelms  Greene.  I  le  says  he's  man- 
aged to  keep  the  hoopla  over  his  discovery  of  the 
Internet  Explorer  bug  in  perspective.  And  yet,  he 
says  he  still  finds  himself  shaking  his  head  from 
time  to  time  over  how  the  news  media  went  wild 
over  his  story.  "During  that  same  weekend,  there 
was  a  flood  in  Kentucky  and  Al  Gore  was  having 
campaign  problems,"  he  says.  "And  we  were  front 
page  news!" 


COROLLARY 


Anatomy 
of  a  Bug 


The  Web: 

For  the  uninitiated,  the  World 
Wide  Web  (die  Web)  is  a 
method  of  delivering  text,  graphics, 
sound,  animation  and  video  to  indi- 
vidual computers  over  the 
Internet.  \  Web  page  is  an 
electronic 

that  can 

incorporate  all  of  these  elements, 
along  with  hyperlinks  to  other 
Web  pages.  To  view  Web 
pages  you  need  a  comput- 
er and  a... 


Web  Browser: 

\  browser  is  a  software  ^^P 

package  that  can  connect  your 
computer  to  another  computer  some- 
where else  on  the  Internet,  retrieve  a 
Web  page  from  that  computer,  and  then 
display  it  on  your  screen.  Currently,  the 
browser  market  is  dominated  by 
Netscape  Communications'  Navigator 
and  Microsofts'  Internet  Explorer. 
Microsoft  also  makes  Windows  95, 
which  includes  the  work-saving  device 
called  the... 

Shortcut: 

Essentially,  a  shortcut  is  an  icon — or 
picture — that,  when  clicked  on  by  your 
mouse,  will  launch  a  sequence  of 
events  that  may,  for  example,  start 
your  word  processing  program.  Short- 
cuts make  Windows  easier  to  use,  but 
for  users  of  Internet  Explorer,  they 
also  opened  the  door  to  a  serious... 

Security  Breech: 

Ordinarily,  Web  browsers  are  designed 
to  prevent  Web  page  designers  from 
medling  with  programs  and  files  on  your 
computer.  But  the  shortcut  feature  in 
Windows  95  enabled  designers  to  create 
files  on  their  pages  that  would  tell  Inter- 
net Explorer  to  run  programs  on  your 
machine.  The  programs  in  question 
were  those  that  are  part  of  Windows  and 
diat  tend  to  be  in  standard  locations  on 
all  computers.  These  include  programs 


for  creat- 
ing, editing  and  deleting 
files,  as  well  as  data  files  that  tell 
your  computer  how  to  operate.  This 
breech  left  computers  running  Inter- 
net Explorer  vulnerable  to  serious  tam- 
pering. Using  a  shortcut,  a  designer 
might  even  have  instructed  your  com- 
puter to  erase  all  the  data  stored  on  your 
hard  drive.  Clearly,  there  was  a  need  for 
an  immediate... 

Bus  Fix: 

The  patch  that  Microsoft  released  short- 
ly after  learning  of  the  bug  from  Paul 
( rreene  and  his  roommates  does  not 
preclude  a  designer  from  using  shortcuts 
to  affect  your  computer.  But  with  the  fix, 
Internet  Explorer  will  detect  such  an 
attempt  and  give  you  a  warning, 
enabling  you  to  put  a  stop  to  it. 

Lean  More  on  the  Web 

Greene  and  his  roommates  created  a 
W^eb  page  that  explains  how  the  bug  in 
Internet  Explorer  works  and  provides 
a  few  nondestructive  demonstrations 
that  will  run  programs  on  your  com- 
puter if  you  have  a  version  of  the 
browser  that  has  not  been  "patched." 
If  you've  upgraded  your  copy  of 
Explorer,  you  can  run  these  demos 
to  verify  that  the  enhanced  securitj 
features  are  working.  The  page  is  at: 
www.cybersnot.com/iebug.html 

If  you  have  an  older  version  of 
Internet  Explorer,  you  may  download 
the  latest  version  directly  from  Micro- 
soft at  www  .microsoft.com/ie 


WPI  JOURNAL 


27 


EDITOR'S  NOTE:  Over  the  past  few  decades,  the  world  has  become  far  more  complicated  for  the  men  and  women  who  transact 

the  world's  business.  Perhaps  the  most  profound  change  to  transform  the  business  world  is  the  rise  of  computer  and 

communications  technology.  No  aspect  of  business  and  industry — and  no  profession — has  been  untouched  by  the  Information 

Revolution.  Modern  technology  has  accelerated  the  pace  of  business,  catalyzed  the  growth  of  the  global  marketplace,  and  redefined 

the  nature  ofz  To  manage  people  and  organizations  today,  one  must  understand  technology  and  be  adept  at  using  it. 

'  dicated  to  looking  at  the  issues  and  opportunities  the  university  faces  with  the  approach  of 

'.ment  at  TVPI  is  evolving  to  meet  this  challenge  and  at  how  WPFs 
national  leader  in  education  for  the  management  of  technology. 


L 


\ 


O'^ 


C 


/ 


[ 


A 


analogy 


Those  familiar  with  the  initials 
"WPI"  most  often  associate  them 
with  the  word  "engineering." 

In  fact,  for  more  than  130  years,  WPI  has 
been  preparing  engineers  and  other  tech- 
nological professionals  to  deftly  balance 
theory  and  practice  in  all  manner  of  profes- 
sions. But  while  many  of  those  graduates 
went  on  to  manage  people  and  organizations 
as  part  of  their  jobs,  they  may  not  have  felt 


fact,  more  than  80  percent  of  the  students 
who  enroll  in  our  MBA  program  have 
engineering  backgrounds." 

Undergraduates  and  technological  pro- 
fessionals who  choose  WPI's  management 
offerings  benefit  from  a  program  with  a 
unique  focus.  Rather  than  merely  covering 
the  fundamentals  of  business,  as  do  most 
university  management  programs,  WPI  has 
designed  its  program  to  prepare  students  for 
the  future  of  management,  which  Banks  and 
Wilkinson  say  means  managing  organiza- 


"Business  Week  predicted  that  in  the  not  too 
distant  future,  the  typical  job  will  require  at 
least  a  master's  degree.  Behind  that  pronounce- 
ment was  the  recognition  of  the  increasing 
technological  sophistication  of  business. " 
— McRae  Banks 


well  prepared  to  deal  with  the  realities  of 
management  when  they  left  the  university. 
That's  about  to  change. 

Two  years  ago,  McRae  Banks  came  to 
WPI  from  Mississippi  State  University  to 
head  WPI's  Department  of  Management, 
where  he  found  a  challenging  set  of  tasks 
waiting  for  him:  strengthening  the  depart- 
ment's undergraduate  and  graduate  pro- 
grams, earning  national  accreditation  for  its 
programs,  and  developing  a  more  effective 
presence  in  distance  education.  With  the 
help  of  the  management  faculty-  and  Norm 
Wilkinson,  director  of  graduate  manage- 
ment programs,  Banks  dove  right  in.  Under 
his  leadership,  the  department  has  emerged 
with  a  bold  strategic  intent:  "Within  the 
next  15  years,"  he  says,  "WPI  will  become 
the  premier  provider  of  graduate  and  under- 
graduate education  in  the  management  of 
technology." 

The  Department  of  Management  was 
officially  founded  in  1974,  though  WPI 
reportedly  offered  a  management  engi- 
neering concentration  as  early  as  1942. 
The  reasons  for  teaching  technological 
professionals  about  management  haven't 
changed  much  over  the  decades,  Wilkin- 
son says.  "There  are  skills  we  teach  in 
management  that  students  who  do  purely 
technical  course  work  generally  don't 
acquire.  These  are  skills  that  emplovers 
tell  us  they'd  like  to  see  in  their  technical 
employees.  In  addition,  engineers  are  quite 
likely  to  end  up  in  managerial  positions.  In 


tions  in  the  age  of  technology.  The  depart- 
ment recently  dratted  a  new  mission  state- 
ment that  defines  the  management  of 
technology  in  three  ways:  "the  conversion  of 
technology  into  commercial  products/ser- 
vices, the  integration  of  technology  into  the 
work  environment,  and  the  management  of 
technological  organizations." 

"We  want  students  to  understand  how 
to  use  technology  to  help  their  organiza- 
tions work  better  and  to  help  people  be 
more  effective,"  Banks  says.  "An  article  in 
Business  Week  predicted  that  in  the  not  too 
distant  future,  the  typical  job  will  require  at 
least  a  master's  degree.  Behind  that  pro- 
nouncement was  the  recognition  of  the 
increasing  technological  sophistication  of 
business.  If  people  don't  understand  that, 
they're  not  going  to  work  effectively.  If  our 
students  graduate  and  understand  the 
importance  of  technology,  they  will  be  far 
ahead  of  everyone  else." 


"More  than 

80  percent  of  the 

students  who  enroll 

in  our  MBA  program 

have  engineering 

backgi'ounds. " 

— Norm  Wilkinson 


The  Road  to  the  Future 

The  first  step  toward  the  fulfillment  of 
the  department's  plan  for  the  future  was 
strengthening  its  existing  programs.  "When 
our  graduate  committee  looked  at  restruc- 
turing our  programs,  we  talked  to  students, 
alumni,  employers,  our  board  of  advisors 
and  our  faculty  to  find  out  what  skills  they 
thought  our  graduates  needed  to  come  awaj 
with,"  Wilkinson  says.  "That's  how  we  came 
to  recognize  that  our  programs  needed  to 
give  students  a  global  perspective,  provide 
them  with  leadership  training,  and  help 
them  develop  communications  skills." 

These  skills  are  the  focus  of  several  core 
courses  developed  for  WPI's  new  49-credit 
MBA  program.  (  Complementing  the  course 
work  is  the  new  three-credit  Graduate  Qual- 
if\  ing  Project  (( rQP).  Similar  to  the  qualify- 
ing projects  undergraduates  complete  as  part 
of  the  project-based  WPI  Plan,  the  GQP  will 
help  students  gain  experience  in  real-world 
problem  solving.  Management  is  the  first 
department  at  WPI  to  require  such  a  project 
of  its  graduate  students.  "The  GQP  is 
designed  to  pull  together  a  number  of  busi- 
ness functions  to  focus  die  students'  creative 
energies  on  both  analyzing  and  solving  a 
problem,"  Banks  says.  "We're  now  looking 
for  corporations  to  sponsor  these  projects." 

In  addition  to  putting  a  global  and  tech- 
nological spin  on  the  MBA  program,  the 
department  has  begun  offering  two  new 
30-credit  master  of  science  programs:  Mar- 
keting and  Technological  Innovation,  and 
Operations  and  Information  Technology. 
Both  are  geared  toward  students  who 
already  have  a  general  business  degree  and 
are  looking  for  a  more  focused  program,  or 
students  who  simply  have  a  more  specialized 
need  than  the  MBA  program  can  satisfy.  "If 
you're  in,  or  are  aspiring  to,  a  position  that 
requires  one  of  these  specific  skills,  it  makes 
sense  to  take  one  of  our  new  focused  degree 
programs,"  Wilkinson  says. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


29 


WPI      AT     THE     CROSSROADS 


Worcester,  Waltham, 
the  World 

During  the  past  academic  year,  die  Depart- 
ment of  Management  began  offering  graduate 
certificate  programs  at  WPI's  new  Waltham 
campus.  Located  in  an  office  building  just  out- 
side of  Boston  on  Route  128 — in  the  heart  of 
one  of  America's  high-technology  strong- 
holds— the  campus  beckons  passing  motorists 
with  a  bright  red  sign  that  reads  "WPI 
Waltham  Campus."  "It's  a  beautiful  facility," 
Banks  says.  "And  it's  right  in  the  area  where 
we  need  to  be.  We  have  high  visibility  in 
Waltham  and  the  campus  is  surrounded  by 
technology-oriented  companies." 

To  existing  five-course,  15-credit  certifi- 
cate programs  in  technology  marketing  and 
the  management  of  technology,  the  depart- 
ment recently  added  a  new  program  in 
information  technology.  "We've  found  that 
about  half  of  our  certificate  stu- 
dents have  prior  graduate 
degrees,"  Wilkinson  says.  "So 
people  who  already  have  an  MBA 
or  an  M.S.  in  an  engineering  field 
are  coming  back  for  one  of  these 
specializations.  The  certificate 
programs  also  lead  nicely  into  our 
graduate  degree  programs.  Quite 
a  few  potential  students  who 
express  an  interest  in  a  certificate 
program  end  up  applying  to  a 
degree  program,  and  even  more 
are  looking  in  that  direction." 

Another  option  for  those  seek- 
ing management  education  from 
WPI  is  the  Advanced  Distance 
Learning  Network  (ADLN), 
which  enables  students  all  over 
the  world  to  take  courses  at  WPI. 
The  network  distributes  course 
lectures  to  students  on  videocas- 
settes.  Students  communicate  with 
one  another  and  with  their  profes- 
sors via  the  Internet,  phone  and 
fax.  Courses  can  also  be  delivered 
to  remote  classrooms,  often  at 
corporate  sites,  using  videocon- 
ferencing technology.  "WPI  has 
been  offering  distance  learning 
programs  since  1979,"  Banks  says, 
"and  we  may  well  have  been  the 
first  university  to  provide  an  entire 
MBA  program  at  a  distance." 

"The  criteria,  the  expectations 
and  the  grading  procedures  are 
the  same,  whether  one  takes  a  graduate 
management  program  on  campus  or  via 
ADLN,"  Wilkinson  says.  "We've  found  that 


our  distance  students  perform  as  well  as — 
if  not  better  than — on-campus  students. 
Many  say  they  feel  they  have  more  contact 
with  their  instructors  than  on-campus  stu- 
dents do.  During  the  course,  they  have  a 
semester-long  e-mail  conversation  with 
a  professor,  rather  than  just  three  hours  a 
week  in  a  classroom." 

As  more  departments  at  WPI  begin 
developing  distance  learning  programs, 
Banks  says  time  in  the  university's  television 
studio  will  be  at  a  premium.  Recognizing 
this,  the  Department  of  Management  is 
exploring  other  distance  learning  technol- 
ogies to  assure  that  it  can  maintain  its  capac- 
ity to  meet  the  growing  demand  for  its 
programs.  These  technologies  include  the 
World  Wide  Web,  which  is  already  being 
used  by  many  universities  (including  WPI) 
to  deliver  courses  remotely,  and  CD-ROMs 
and  digital  videodisks. 


Professor  Frank  Noonan  conducts  a 
class  in  the  television  studio  in  WPI's 
Fuller  Labs.  The  recorded  session 
will  then  be  distributed  through  the 
Advanced  Distance  Learning  Network. 


Undergraduate  Changes 

As  it  worked  to  revise  its  graduate  programs, 
the  department  has  also  been  taking  time  to 
reinvigorate  its  undergraduate  offerings. 
Currently,  the  management  and  manage- 
ment engineering  major  programs  are  being 
reworked  to  complement  a  newly  revamped 
management  information  systems  (MIS) 
major.  Faculty  members  Dieter  Klein, 
Diane  Strong  and  Wenhong  Luo  made  the 
MIS  program  one  of  the  first  in  the  nation 
to  conform  to  IS  '97,  a  new  set  of  guidelines 
for  this  major.  "The  MIS  program  needed 
to  be  strengthened,"  Banks  says.  "The  out- 
come of  that  strengthening  was  an  immedi- 
ate increase  in  enrollment.  We  began  the 
1996-97  academic  year  with  five  MIS 
majors.  The  new  program  was  passed  by 
the  faculty  last  October,  and  in  January  we 
had  41  majors." 

The  1995-96  academic  year 
saw  the  debut  of  a  new  major: 
industrial  engineering.  "Few  busi- 
ness schools  offer  a  major  in  indus- 
trial engineering,"  Banks  says. 
"Our  students  take  more  manage- 
ment topics  than  the  traditional 

"We  may  well  have  been 
the  first  university  to 
provide  an  entire  MBA 
program  at  a  distance. " 

industrial  engineering  major 
would.  That's  because  of  our  belief 
that  the  industrial  engineer  needs 
to  be  aware  of  the  larger  context  of 
business.  We're  also  concentrating 
much  more  on  the  service  side  than 
on  the  manufacturing  side.  By 
doing  this,  we're  creating  a  pro- 
gram that  gives  our  graduates  a 
competitive  advantage." 

Like  the  revamped  MIS  pro- 
gram, the  industrial  engineering 
major  seems  to  be  a  hit  with  stu- 
dents. "It's  a  new  program,"  Banks 
a.  savs,  "and  without  anv  advertising, 
1  we  brought  in  five  majors  last 
|  year.  Two  months  into  the  school 
1  year,  industrial  engineering 
»  enrollment  had  grown  to  32  with 
|  internal  transfers.  This  year, 
despite  graduations,  the  depart- 
ment is  up  to  48  IE  majors.  Sharon  Johnson, 
director  of  the  IE  program,  Frank  Noonan 
and  Art  Cerstenfeld  have  done  an  outstand- 


30 


Summer  1997 


-M,™™|M"mi 


MI8iMmiMinM«iMBm«i 


"Students  can  build 

programs  that  go  in  a 

number  of  directions. 

That's  made  possible  by 

the  flexibility  of  the  Plan. " 

ing  job  in  getting  the  IF,  program 
oft  the  ground." 

Traditionally,  most  undergrad- 
uates majoring  in  management  pro- 
grams at  WPI  have  been  internal 
transfers — students  who've  moved 
from  other  majors  to  management. 
Hut  banks  says  the  department's 
new  and  revamped  undergraduate 
programs  are  designed  to  draw  the 
attention  of  high  school  juniors  anil 
seniors. 

The  changes  in  the  undergrad- 
uate program  come  about  at  a  time 
when  parents  are  beginning  to 
understand  the  need  tor  their  sons  and 
daughters  to  receive  management  training. 
Banks  recalls  one  parent  who  peppered  him 
with  questions  during  a  department  open 
house  last  year.  Afterward,  she  said  to  him, 
"I  want  my  daughter  to  understand  the  tech- 
nical side,  but  I  also  want  her  to  understand 
the  management  side."  "That's  what  we  do 
at  WPI,"  Banks  says.  "We  merge  the  two, 
producing  much  stronger  graduates  than 
other  universities." 

Banks  says  the  WPI  Plan  adds  even 
more  value  to  the  undergraduate  manage- 
ment programs.  "It's  a  tremendous  advan- 
tage to  be  part  of  the  \YTI  Plan,"  he  says. 
"Within  management,  students  can  build 
programs  that  go  in  a  number  of  directions. 
That's  made  possible  by  the  flexibility  of  the 
Plan.  Students  can  bundle  courses  together 
in  a  unique  manner  to  come  up  with  a  focus 
that's  going  to  help  them  meet  their  own 
career  objectives.  Also,  our  projects  tend  to 


i.w-Yfr 


.-» * 


\ 


says.  "The  department  is  a  candidate  for 
accreditation  by  AACSB,  the  International 
Association  for  Management  Education. 
That's  at  least  a  five-year  process. 

"Another  initiative  the  department  is 
pursuing  is  an  increased  presence  in  out- 
reach and  research.  We  have  many  faculty 
members  who  are  interested  in  working 
with  the  business  community  on  applied 
research  projects.  These  are  projects  that 
the  companies  define  with  our  faculty  mem- 
bers, either  to  solve  a  specific  problem  or  to 
improve  their  general  understanding  of 
some  area  they  feel  is  critical  to  their  future 
success."  Among  the  research  centers  the 
department  is  exploring  are  ones  focused  on 
financial  distress,  data  quality  and  new  prod- 
uct development. 

"We're  also  trying  to  tackle  what  may 
be  one  of  the  more  important  obstacles  to 
our  future  growth  and  success:  a  lack  of 
community  among  our  students,  faculty 
address  real  problems  faced  by  real  organi-        aml  alumni.  We  want  to  make  sure  that  our 
/ations.  That  experience  adds  tremendously      undergraduate  and  graduate  students  feel 
to  our  students'  backgrounds.  I  think  that's        as  though  they  have  a  tie  to  the  department 
why  our  undergraduates  tend  to  earn  higher      and  vice  versa-  BY  doing  that;  we  b<flieve  we 
than  average  starting  salaries  and  why,  after 


five  years,  they  earn  much  more  than  other 
majors  from  WPI." 

Looking  ahead 

What's  next  for  management  at  WPI?  "In 
addition  to  rolling  out  our  new  undergradu- 
ate and  graduate  programs  and  enhancing 
our  distance  learning  programs,  we're  taking     include  families  in  a  lot  of  the  activities  we 
the  first  steps  toward  accreditation,"  Banks        sponsor,  because  many  of  our  students  have 


can  foster  a  much  stronger  alumni  body  in 
years  to  come." 

Although  Banks  says  he  feels  the  depart- 
ment is  doing  a  good  job  of  building  a  sense 
of  community  at  the  undergraduate  level,  he 
and  Wilkinson  acknowledge  the  difficulty  of 
accomplishing  that  same  goal  with  a  popula- 
tion that  includes  a  substantial  number  of 
part-time  graduate  students.  "We've  tried  to 


Professor  Michael  Elmes 

families  and  they  already  spend  time  away 
from  them  to  pursue  our  degree  programs," 
Wilkinson  says.  "For  example,  when  we  do 
our  own  graduate  management  student  ori- 
entation each  fall,  we  include  a  department- 
wide  barbecue.  We're  putting  together  a 
graduate  management  student  organization,  a 
member  of  which  will  sit  on  the  department's 
graduate  policy  and  curriculum  committee." 

The  department  is  also  developing  a 
graduate  management  alumni  association. 
"We  have  nearly  S00  graduate  alums  out 
there,"  Wilkinson  says.  "They  constitute  a 
loyal  alumni  group."  Adds  Banks,  "Admit- 
tedly, we  haven't  really  stayed  in  close  con- 
tact with  them.  We  hope  we  can  build  a 
relationship  with  our  graduate  alumni  that 
will  benefit  them  and  the  department." 

By  strengthening  its  programs  and  build- 
ing a  sense  of  community,  the  department 
seems  to  be  well  on  its  way  toward  achieving 
its  lofty  goal:  to  be  the  premier  provider  of 
graduate  and  undergraduate  education  in 
the  management  of  technology.  "We'll  get 
there,"  Banks  sa\7s.  "WPI  has  a  tremendous 
reputation  that  we  can  leverage.  We  have 
outstanding  faculty  members  in  the  depart- 
ment and  we  have  outstanding  students  at  the 
graduate  and  undergraduate  levels.  There's 
no  reason  we  can't  achieve  our  goal." 

— AMY  L.  MARR  '96 

— Marr  is  WPI's  World  Wide  Web  Coordina- 
tor and  a  WPI  graduate  student  in  manage- 
ment, pursuing  an  M.S.  in  marketing  and 
technological  innovation. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


31 


FINAL     WORD 


Student  Projects  Result  in 
Medical  Advances 


Study  Yields  Possible 
Breakthrough  in  AIDS 
Treatment 

An  opportunistic  pathogen  that  often 
affects  patients  with  acquired 
immunodeficiency  syndrome  (AIDS) 
is  actually  present  in  the  body  before  the 
onset  of  the  disease  and  may  represent  a 
common  parasite  of  healthy  humans,  as  well 
as  several  species  of  macaque  monkeys.  That 
was  the  conclusion  of  a  Major  Qualifying 
Project  by  Daniel  R.  Hebert  '97  who  plans  a 
career  in  veterinary  medicine. 

This  startling  discovery  could  have  a 
major  impact  on  the  treatment  of  AIDS 
patients  and  others  whose  immune  systems 
are  compromised  by  illness.  Hebert,  who 
received  his  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 
biotechnology  in  May  and  will  work  toward 
a  Doctor  of  Veterinary  Medicine  degree 
at  Tufts  University  School  of  Veterinary 
Medicine,  investigated  the  presence  of 
microsporidia  in  the  macaque  colony  at  the 
New  England  Regional  Primate  Research 
Center  in  Southboro,  Mass.  The  center, 
which  opened  in  1966,  is  affiliated  with 
Harvard  Medical  School  and  is  part  of  the 
Regional  Primate  Research  Centers  Pro- 
gram established  by  Congress  in  1959.  Its 
mission  is  to  conduct  basic  and  applied  bio- 
medical research  aimed  at  solving  human 
health  and  societal  problems. 

Microsporidia  are  parasites  that  exist  as 
latent  spores  until  they  infect  a  host  cell, 
usually  within  the  ocular,  pulmonary,  mus- 
cular and  intestinal  systems.  One  species, 
Enterocytozoon  bieneusi,  is  the  major  cause  of 
chronic  diarrhea  and  inflammation  of  the 
bile  ducts  and  gall  bladder  in  individuals 
with  MDS  and  other  immuno-suppressed 
patients. 

Hebert  worked  with  Keith  G.  Mans- 
field, D.V.M.,  who  had  previously  used  new 
molecular  diagnostic  techniques  to  locate 
the  parasite  within  the  macaque  colony.  His 
faculty  advisor  was  Daniel  G.  Gibson,  assis- 
tant professor  of  biology  and  biotechnology. 
Hebert,  the  first  WPI  student  to  complete  a 


project  at  the  primate  center,  was  one  of  two 
students  to  receive  a  Provost's  MQP  Award 
from  the  Biology  and  Biotechnology 
Department  this  year.  His  work  was  also 
nominated  for  the  university's  Sigma  Xi 
Research  Award. 

"This  really  is  a  breakthrough  in  gas- 
trointestinal medicine,  as  well  as  AIDS 
research,"  says  Gibson.  "It  identified  a 


"  (Hebert  s  research)  identified  a 

chronic  parasite  that  may  be  the 

cause  of  many  unexplained  cases  of 

gastritis,  enteritis,  chronic  diarrhea, 

and  other  digestive  problems. " 

— Professor  Daniel  Gibson 


chronic  parasite  that  may  be  the  cause  of 
many  unexplained  cases  of  gastritis,  enteri- 
tis, chronic  diarrhea,  and  other  digestive 
problems.  Here  is  a  pathogen  that  can  wreak 
havoc  on  the  intestines,  but  is  seldom  detec- 
ted because  it  resides  elsewhere — in  the 
ducts  of  the  liver.  This  is  as  important  as 
the  discovery  that  many  ulcers  are  caused 
by  a  bacterium,  helicobacter pylori,  rather  than 
by  hypersecretion  of  stomach  acid." 

Hebert  used  a  technique  called  South- 
ern blotting  to  detect  the  presence  of 
microsporidia.  The  procedure  involved 
immobilizing  DNA  to  detect  certain 
sequences.  The  DNA  was  transferred  from 
a  gel  medium  to  a  nylon  membrane,  which 
was  exposed  to  a  nucleic  acid  probe  for  E. 
bieneusi.  Hebert  was  able  to  identify  the 


parasite  in  22  of  145  normal  rhesus 
macaques  and  15  of  42  macaques  infected 
with  Simian  Immunodeficiency  Virus. 
Once  the  positive  animals  were  identified, 
bile  and  tissue  samples  were  taken  to  study 
the  location  of  infection.  Persistence  stud- 
ies indicated  that  the  parasite  lived  for  7-1 1 
months;  prior  to  the  study  there  had  been 
no  indication  that  microsporidians  were 
chronic  inhabitants  of  healthy  animals. 

"Daniel's  contribution  to  our  research 
effort  to  elucidate  and  characterize  the  path- 
ogenesis of  E.  bieneusi  in  rhesus  macaques 
has  proven  invaluable  to  the  progress  of 
the  study,"  says  Mansfield.  "His  work  here 
will  aid  the  understanding  of  E.  bieneusi  in 
humans  and  eventually  add  to  efforts  to 
prevent  and  treat  the  debilitating  condition 


32 


Summer  1997 


SSEOJfflS 


"■""""■""■ 


UZ 


From  left,  recent  graduates  Nicole 
Robert,  Jason  Wening  and  Colleen  Fox. 


the  parasite  causes  in  AIDS  patients." 

"In  the  future,"  says  Hebert,  "new  steps 
in  AIDS  treatment  could  include  screening 
for  E.  bieneusi  at  the  onset  of  HIV  infection. 
Once  an  effective  cure  for  the  parasite  can 
be  found,  it  can  be  administered  to  these 
patients  and  prevent  much  of  the  discomfort 
and  disease  that  AIDS  patients  experience 
toward  the  end  of  their  illness." 

-Bonnie  Gelbwasser 


Multidisciplinary  Project 
Takes  First  Step  Toward 
Fully  Motorized  Prosthesis 


Today,  there  is  no  such  thing  as  a  ful- 
ly motorized,  user-actuated  shoul- 
der prosthesis.  But  tomorrow  there 
may  well  be,  thanks  to  the  ingenuity  of  three 
recent  WPI  graduates. 

For  their  Major  Qualifying  Project, 
Colleen  Fox,  an  electrical  engineering 
major  from  Fairbanks,  Alaska,  Nicole 
Robert,  an  engineering  physics  major  from 
Webster,  Mass.,  and  Jason  Wening,  a 
mathematical  sciences  major  from  Jefferson 
City,  Mo.,  set  for  themselves  an  especially 
challenging  goal:  to  develop  a  prototype 
electronic  control  unit  that  will  allow  an 
amputee  to  simultaneously  execute  motions 
in  more  than  one  joint  of  a  motorized 
prosthesis. 

Fach  student  brought  to  the  project  his 
or  her  special  area  of  expertise.  In  addition, 
Wening,  a  double  leg  amputee  (see  "Swim- 
ming Against  the  Odds,"  Spring  1995  WPI 
Journal),  provided  insights  that  only  the 
physically  challenged  can  offer.  "Our  pro- 
ject began  a  process  that  we  hope  will 
result  in  the  development  of  a  shoulder 
prosthesis  that  will  give  the  amputee  the 
tools  he  or  she  needs  to  be  self-sufficient," 
he  says. 

During  the  first  phase  of  the  project,  the 
students  established  the  design  parameters 
for  the  control  unit  by  modeling  the  forces 
involved  in  moving  a  prosthetic  arm.  They 
learned  how  long  it  takes  for  the  arm  to 


"Our  project  began  a  process  that  we 

hope  will  give  the  amputee  the  tools 

he  or  she  needs  to  be  self-sufficient. " 

— -Jason  Wening  '97 


accelerate,  the  torque  changes  required  to 
retain  constant  angular  velocity,  the  pre- 
dictability of  starting  and  stopping  accuracy, 
and  the  possibility  of  overshooting. 

"During  the  second  phase,  we  built  the 
electronic  control  unit,"  Fox  says.  "We  used 
a  motion  algorithm  based  on  the  models  we 
developed  in  the  first  phase.  The  algorithm 
transforms  input  signals  into  output  signals 
that  drive  the  motors  of  the  prosthesis." 

The  group  used  three  motors  to  model 
the  motion  of  the  prosthesis:  two  to  control 
shoulder  flexibility  and  one  to  control  elbow 
flexibility.  "We  used  a  double  arm-driven 
pendulum  to  simulate  two  joints  and  a  single 
arm-driven  pendulum  to  simulate  one  joint 
of  the  prosthesis,"  explains  Robert. 

As  an  added  challenge,  they  had  to  con- 
sider the  fact  that  the  motors  put  out  a  cer- 


tain torque  in  order  to  move  the  arm  in  spe- 
cific patterns.  They  ultimately  designed  a 
motion  control  system  to  include  a  low- 
power  device  that  is  compact  in  size  and 
weight — one  that  has  the  ability  to  change 
the  limb's  velocity  or  to  stop  it  at  any  time 
in  any  location. 

The  students  emphasize  that  their  pro- 
ject is  just  a  first  step  in  the  development  of 
a  motorized  prosthesis.  Their  recommenda- 
tions for  the  future  include  developing  more 
sophisticated  motion  algorithms  and  creat- 
ing lightweight  motor  and  battery  systems. 
"We  hope  our  efforts  will  enable  the  physi- 
cally challenged  to  enjoy  a  better  quality  of 
lire,"  they  say. 

The  project,  sponsored  by  Liberty 
Mutual  Research  Center  (where  Ted 
Clancy  '83  is  WPTs  principal  MQP  con- 
tact), received  WPTs  Provost's  MQP  Award 
from  both  the  Electrical  and  Computer 
Engineering  and  Physics  departments.  It 
was  advised  by  Fred  Looft,  professor  of 
electrical  and  computer  engineering,  Van 
Bluemel,  professor  of  physics,  and  Paul 
Davis,  professor  of  mathematical  sciences. 

—RUTH  TRASK 


Rising  above  Route  128 
outside  Boston,  WPI's 
new  Waltham  campus 
has  become  a  landmark 
for  drivers  on  "America's 
High-Tech  Highway." 
The  graduate  manage- 
ment programs  offered 
in  Waltham  are  just  one 
way  WPI's  Department 
of  Management  is  set- 
ting the  stage  for  the 
decades  ahead.  Photo 
by  Jonathan  Kannair. 
Story  on  page  28. 


&wmmm*w  iimn 


001035*********$   CftR-RT  SORT  **   R001 
,1S.   PuRGTHr  HCCrtRTnY 

83  KEITH  HILL   ROAD 
GRAFTON  MA   01513-1314 


ill......!l.l.ln..!!i.!M...ll.ill.n.!l.!..l.l.l.l 


«a<nmiuiiij«»iiiii!iiuiiunmaM 


IRC.     ILHn    III    IIL¥ILVV/1«0U    3//T     WW  I    I    *f    ■   lliniiwint    ■    nui  ikb 


^ 


FALL       1997 


f k   I 


/ 


The  WPI  Education  of 


—  0*t  ty&nultf,  'In&dUtlOHA.  — 
When  Diane  was  10,  her  mother  became  paralyzed  from  multiple  sclerosis.  During  her  mother's  10-year  illness, 
the  community  rallied  around  the  family  as  a  thank  you  for  her  many  years  of  community  service.  This  experi- 
ence helped  shape  the  life  that  Diane  and  Les  made  with  their  daughters,  Pam,  left,  and  Kay.  Together,  Diane 
and  Les  have  continued  the  tradition  of  both  their  families  of  helping  others — sharing  their  home  with  12  foster 
children,  helping  start  a  shelter  for  battered  women,  founding  a  jail  chaplaincy  and  an  affordable  housing  cor- 
poration for  young  families,  and  leading  a  family  counseling  service. 

—  0*  Planned  Qujincj,  <U  WP9  — 

"Years  ago  we  changed  our  wills  to  leave  20  percent  of  our  estates  to  several  nonprofits — including  WPI,'1  Les 
Reynolds  says.  "In  1997,  we  noted  that  we  had  stocks  iocked  up'  in  our  portfolio,  having  high  capital  gains  and 
small  dividends,  whose  value  equaled  the  percentage  we  planned  to  give  through  our  estates.  We  decided  to 
make  our  gifts  right  then  through  a  charitable  remainder  unitrust.  We  receive  seven  percent  of  the  trust's  value 
each  year  of  our  lives,  and  we  have  benefited  from  a  charitable  deduction  up  front.  We  unlocked  highly  appreci- 
ated assets,  and  gave  ourselves  a  significant  raise.  Best  of  all,  during  our  lifetimes,  we  assured  the  continuation  of 
our  family  tradition  of  helping  others." 

If you  would  like  to  join  Diane  and  Les  Reynolds  and  210  others  who  are  enjoying  the  many  benefits  of  planned  giving 
at  WPI,  please  contact  Liz  Siladi,  Director  of  Planned  Giving,  at  1-888-WPI  GIFT. 


■jtuma 


U*M 


VOLl   \ll    <..  Ml.  i,  ]•  \|.|.  1VV/ 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


Putting  the  Pieces  Together  By  Edward  a.  Parrish 

Accompanying  essays  by  Allison  Chisolm,  Elizabeth  Walker  and  Michael  IV.  Dorsey 

Photographs  by  Patrick  O'Connor 
Page  2 

From  the  Information  Revolution,  to  the  global  economy,  to  upheaval  in  the 

workplace,  the  world  is  changing  in  dramatic  ways.  At  the  same  time,  technological 

higher  education  is  undergoing  an  unprecedented  transformation.  The  shifting  landscape 

is  raising  the  visibility  ofWPI's  pioneering  curriculum — a  program  well  suited  to  the 

world  of  today  and  tomorrow — and  creating  an  opportunity  for  the  University  to  once 

again  lead  the  way  in  defining  a  better  way  of  preparing  technological  professionals. 

To  capitalize  on  that  opportunity,  WPI  last  year  began  a  communitywide 
strategic  planning  process  that  will  help  it  build  a  new  vision  for  the  future  and  a  plan 
for  turning  that  vision  into  reality.  In  the  first  phase  of  that  process,  a  cross  section  of 
the  community  made  a  critical  appraisal  of  today's  WPI  and  suggested  ways  to  build  a 
better  University.  From  those  proposals,  the  Strategic  Planning  Steering  Committee 
formulated  eight  draft  goals.  To  understand  what  WPI  might  be  like  in  the  future, 
we  look  here  at  eight  current  programs  that  exemplify  those  goals: 

Create  a  Campus  in  Harmony  With  Our  Programs  £ni!dirra  WPI  A  livirm  R.oor* 

Provide  Global  Opportunites  for  Potentially  All  Students  ?\cV  Up  a  PArrpoH  fo  fht  Fnfuh: 

Develop  Creative  Pathways  to  Graduate  Degrees  pit'tTAfe+Y  Ccr»ftt  fc\«zu  frU  T>aJ| 

Integrate  Education  and  Research  WaI^iHA  FIPOB  or?  Mai-T 

Continue  To  Innovate  in  Undergraduate  Programs  r3ui!diriA  £hdatT  fo  UridttrfAridihA 

Recognize  and  Adapt  to  Continuing  Change  Thhl'irm  orr  Crumy  ih  VUilf  rur- 

Make  Creative  Use  of  Information  Technology  WtfpAhic  Culful't  in  fht  Mol/it  IaI> 

Improve  Community  Relations  and  Diversity  &&ACYiitiA  frtt  NtiakkoWood 


The  Year  in  Review:  1996-97,  By  Michael  W.  Dorsey.  Page  12 

University  Relations  Highlights,  By  John  L.  Heyl.  Page  16 

Financial  Summary  and  Highlights,  By  Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66.  Inside  Back  Cover 

Front  Cover:  Photos  by  Patrick  O'Connor,  design  by  Michael  J.  Sherman.  Story  on  page  2. 

Back  Cover:  Winter  came  early  to  Boynton  Hill  this  year  as  frigid  fall  winds  chilled  the  air  and  a  November 

storm  left  behind  a  glistening  white  blanket  on  the  hillsides  and  rooftops.  Photo  by  Brian  Crowley. 

Staft  of  the  WPI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contributing  Writers,  Bonnie  ( lelbwasser.Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask  ' 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Robert  CI  Labonte  '54,  chairman,  Kimberlj   V  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firlajr.  '60. Joel  P.  Greene  '69, 

William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  N.  Pern,' Jr.  '45,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  tor  the  W'Pl  Alumni  Association  by  the  Office 

of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Vt.  Printed  in  the  L'.S.A. 

Divcnc  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editon  or  official  WPI  policies.  He  welcome  letter,  to  the  editor.  .  Iddress  correspondence  to  the  Editor. 
\\  I'l  Journal,  WPI,  KM  Institute  Road,  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280*  Phone:  (508)  831-5609,  !  ,n  (508)  831-6004*  Ekctronit  Mail,  wpi-journal@mpi.edu*  World  Wide  Web: 
www.7Vpi.edu/-t Journal/  •  Postmaster:  Ij  undeliverable,  please  send  Form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  1997,  It  'orcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


Putt  ma  \  de 

Over  the  past  year,  the  WPI  comnwivhas  been  developing  a  new  strategic  plar 


Pie 


By  Edward  A.  Parrish 

Accompanying  essays  by  Allison 
Chisolm,  Elizabeth  Walker  and 
Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Photographs  by  Patrick  O'Connor 


K/ 


hat  will  WPI  be  like  in  the  early 
2 1  st  century?  This  is  a  question 
that's  been  on  the  minds  of  many 
members  of  the  University  com- 
munity over  the  past  few  years.  It's  not  a  matter  of  idle  curiosity. 
There  is  a  sense  that  the  world  is  changing  in  dramatic  ways,  that 
the  changes  are  creating  extraordinary  opportunities  for  WPI,  and 
that  the  time  to  act  on  those  opportunities  has  arrived.  In  short,  as 
a  community  we  have  come  to  the  consensus  that  the  time  may  be  ripe  for 
another  major  stride  in  our  journey. 

What  changes  have  led  us  to  this  conclusion? 


•  The  explosion  of  information  technology  and  the 
ever  accelerating  pace  of  technological  change  have 
transformed  the  nature  of  work.  Today,  all  profes- 
sionals, no  matter  what  kinds  of  jobs  they  do,  must 
be  familiar  with  technology  and  be  prepared  to  use 
it  effectively.  WPI's  flexible  approach  to  technologi- 
cal education  offers  an  ideal  way  for  young  men  and 
women  to  blend  studies  in  technology  with  prepara- 
tion in  a  broad  range  of  technical  and  nontechnical 
fields. 

•  The  Information  Revolution  has  catalyzed  the  rise  of 
a  true  global  economy  and  made  a  global  perspective 
a  much  sought  after  quality  in  today's  professionals. 
WPI  stands  apart  from  other  technological  universi- 
ties in  offering  its  students  the  opportunity  to  gain 
global  experience  by  doing  meaningful  projects  for 
sponsoring  organizations  at  sites  all  over  the  world. 

•  The  end  of  the  Cold  War  and  the  concurrent  down- 
sizing and  reorganization  of  major  corporations  has 
put  an  end  to  the  "one  job  for  life"  paradigm  that 
characterized  the  business  world  for  generations.  To 
prepare  for  this  new  world  of  work,  students  must 
learn  how  to  learn  and  how  to  adapt  to  change — 
qualities  that  are  fostered  by  WPI's  student-driven, 
project-oriented  style  of  education. 

•  The  skills,  needs  and  motivations  of  college  students 
have  changed,  arguing  strongly  for  the  replacement 


of  traditional  approaches  to  education  with  new 
forms  of  active,  student-directed  learning.  With  its 
nearly  three  decades  of  experience  with  the  WPI 
Plan,  the  University  has  a  head  start  on  adapting  its 
educational  delivery  methods  to  the  needs  of  today's 
students. 
The  world  of  technological  higher  education  is  changing 
as  well,  and  in  an  equally  dramatic  fashion: 

•  A  number  of  national  studies  and  task  forces,  echo- 
ing calls  by  industry,  government  and  academic  lead- 
ers, have  recommended  new  approaches  to  techno- 
logical higher  education  that  incorporate  many  of  the 
features  of  WPI's  curriculum. 

•  The  Accreditation  Board  for  Engineering  and  Tech- 
nology has  approved  a  sweeping  new  set  of  out- 
comes-oriented accreditation  criteria  by  which  all 
engineering  programs  in  the  United  States  will  soon 
be  measured.  To  a  substantial  degree,  the  criteria 
are  consonant  with  the  philosophy  of  WPI's  curricu- 
lum. For  this  reason,  the  University  was  one  of  two 
schools  nationwide  chosen  by  ABET  to  be  accredited 
under  the  new  criteria  in  a  1 996  pilot  program. 

•  WPI's  approach  to  technological  education,  having 
been  honed  and  tested  over  many  years,  is  being 
viewed  as  a  model  by  the  educators,  industry  lead- 
ers and  government  agencies  who  are  working  to 
revitalize  engineering  education  in  the  United  States. 


■wimrnmiHiiirmra  tmr 


ef  Toaef  (lef 

md  assembling  a  common  mux  of  the  University's  future. 


The  transformation  of  technological  education 
in  this  country  is  shining  a  spotlight  on  WPI  and  its 
remarkable  achievements  as  an  educational  pace- 
setter. Our  success  can  serve  as  a  beacon  to  other 
educators,  for  example,  as  some  of  them  seek  to 
meet  the  requirements  of  the  new  engineering 
accreditation  criteria  and  to  impart  to  their  stu- 
dents the  skills  and  qualities  technological  profes- 
sionals will  need  to  thrive  in  the  decades  ahead. 

But  WPI  can  do  even  more.  We  can  blaze  a 
new  trail  and  once  again  define  the  leading  edge 
of  technological  higher  education.  Like  planets 
moving  into  a  rare  and  transitory  alignment,  the 
changes  in  the  world  around  us  and  the  evolution 
of  technological  higher  education  are  converging 
to  create  an  extraordinary  opportunity  for  the 
University  to  develop  a  new  model  for  the  prepa- 
ration of  technological  professionals,  one  attuned 
to  the  needs  of  the  2 1  st  century. 

How  can  we  best  capitalize  on  these  oppor- 
tunities? What  kinds  of  changes  must  we  make? 
What  should  we  no  longer  do?  In  what  new  dir- 
ections should  we  move?  What  must  we  do  to 
prepare  for  the  voyage  that  lies  ahead?  To  answer 
those  questions,  WPI  began  a  communitywide 
process  of  strategic  planning  during  the  1 996-97 
academic  year. 

The  work  began  in  the  summer  of  1 996  with 
a  conference  of  the  University's  senior  adminis- 
trators, the  secretary  of  the  faculty  and  the  chair 
of  the  faculty  Committee  on  Governance,  at 
which  a  process  for  planning  was  established. 
The  process  moved  forward  during  a  fall  meeting 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees,  which  began  the  task 
of  assessing  the  state  of  WPI  and  considering  a 
vision  for  its  future.  About  60  members  of  the 
University  community  met  later  that  fall  to  dis- 
cuss ways  to  bolster  the  Interactive  Qualifying 
Project  and  the  Global  Perspective  Program,  the 
two  most  distinctive  elements  of  WPI's  educa- 
tional program. 

In  the  fall  of  1 996, 1  appointed  the  Strategic 
Planning  Steering  Committee  (SPSC),  made  up  of 
members  of  the  faculty,  administration  and  stu- 
dent body,  to  guide  the  process  of  developing  a 


formal  strategic  plan.  The  committee  created  1 3 
task  forces  composed  of  faculty  members,  staff 
members,  students  and  alumni  to  conduct  detailed 
studies  of  the  following  specific  areas  of  WPI's 
operations:  admissions,  educational  technology, 
financial  resources  and  incentives,  global  opportu- 
nities, graduate  programs,  information  infrastruc- 
ture, learning  environment  and  campus  culture, 
new  programs,  outcomes  assessment  and  feed- 
back, pre-college  outreach,  project-based  educa- 
tion and  cooperative  learning,  scholarship,  and 
support  services. 

Having  collated  and  considered  the  detailed 
reports  written  by  the  task  forces,  and  having 
gathered  ideas  and  opinions  from  members  of 
the  greater  WPI  community  at  a  number  of  open 
meetings,  the  SPSC  released  a  report  and  made  a 
presentation  of  the  following  draft  set  of  recom- 
mended goals  (the  presentation  was  endorsed  by 
the  faculty  and  shared  with  the  trustees  in  the 
spring  of  1997): 

•  create  a  campus  in  harmony  with  our 
programs 

•  provide  global  opportunities  for  potentially 
all  students 

•  integrate  education  and  research 

•  develop  creative  pathways  to  graduate  degrees 

•  continue  to  innovate  in  undergraduate 
programs 

•  recognize  and  adapt  to  continuing  change 

•  make  creative  use  of  information  technology 

•  improve  community  relationships  and  diversity 

The  work  of  the  SPSC  laid  a  solid  foundation 
for  the  recommendations  that  will  ultimately 
emerge  from  the  strategic  planning  effort.  This 
fall,  the  committee  handed  the  baton  to  the  Plan- 
ning and  Implementation  Committee  (PIC),  a  new 
body,  again  made  up  of  faculty  members,  students 
and  administrators.  Before  the  end  of  the  1 997- 
98  fiscal  year,  this  new  committee  will  take  the 
strategic  planning  process  to  completion  and  craft 
a  new  vision  for  WPI's  future.  That  vision  will 
become  the  foundation  for  a  major  capital  cam- 
paign— to  be  formally  launched  next  fall — that 
will  raise  the  funds  WPI  must  invest  in  its  people, 


programs,  plant  and  community  if  that  vision  is  to 
become  a  reality. 

The  committee  will  benefit  from  the  work  of 
two  other  new  task  forces  that  are  assessing 
WPI's  needs  in  the  areas  of  information  infrastruc- 
ture and  administrative  services.  In  addition, 
WPI's  Budget  Development  Advisory  Committee, 
along  with  the  faculty  Committee  on  Administra- 
tive and  Financial  Policy,  is  working  with  a  num- 
ber of  WPI  departments  to  develop  a  new,  more 
forward-looking  approach  to  budgeting.  All  of  this 
work  should  provide  the  PIC  with  a  wealth  of 
information  and  ideas  to  help  WPI  develop  new 
ways  of  doing  business  in  the  future. 

Eight  Pieces  of 
the  Puzzle 

The  first  phase  of  the  strategic 

planning  effort  yielded  eight 

draft  goals — a  rough  cut  at 

strategies  for  the  decades 

ahead.  The  spirit  of  those  goals 

can  be  found  in  eight  current 

programs  that  provide  a  glimpse 

at  the  WPI  of  the  2 1st  century. 

On  the  pages  that  follow,  you'll 

read  about  those  programs  and 

the  people  who  are  building 

WPI's  future  today. 

The  members  of  the  PIC  have  been  meeting 
weekly  to  build  on  the  work  of  the  SPSC  and  to 
draft  not  only  a  plan  for  WPI's  future  but  a  mech- 
anism for  putting  it  into  action.  Too  often,  strate- 
gic plans — no  matter  how  bold  or  how  carefully 
crafted — sit  on  shelves  and  are  forgotten  in  the 
crush  of  everyday  responsibilities.  Without  an 
accompanying  mechanism  for  implementing  them 
and  without  the  continual  revisiting  and  revising 
of  their  elements,  strategic  plans  have  no  value. 

While  the  final  results  of  WPI's  strategic 
planning  effort  may  diverge  from  the  spirit  of  the 
SPSC's  goals,  they  represent  a  working  consensus 
on  possible  ways  to  build  the  WPI  of  the  future. 
Read  on  to  see  what  that  future  may  look  like. 


MnumiMUUUAiMtf 


Create  a  Campus  in 
Harmony  With  Our 
Programs 

Janet  Begin  Richardson 
at  the  site  of  the  pro- 
posed campus  center. 
She  says  the  building 
will  promote  the  learn- 
ing and  maturing  that 
goes  on  outside  the 
classroom. 


In  the  late  1800s,  silver-tray 
tea  lounges,  smoky  gram- 
ophone rooms  and  white- 
linen  dining  distinguished  the 
elegant  union  buildings  where  British 
university  students  gathered  to 
debate,  read,  and  play  billiards. 
These  private  wood-paneled  unions 
provided  the  blueprint  for  the  more 
egalitarian  campus  centers  that 
today  serve  as  "living  rooms"  on 
U.S.  college  campuses. 

Since  1 87 1 ,  WPI  has  grown 
from  two  buildings  and  an  initial 
graduating  class  of  16  male  seniors 
to  3 1  major  buildings  and  a  student 
body  of  3,500  men  and  women.  But 
the  campus  still  lacks  a  living  room. 

That's  about  to  change.  In  Octo- 
ber 1997,  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees 
approved  a  $1 7  million  WPI  campus 
center  project.  The  68,000-square- 
foot  campus  center  building,  to  be 
sited  behind  Alumni  Gymnasium,  is 
being  designed  by  Boston  architects 
Shepley  Bulfinch  Richardson  and 
Abbott.  Fund  raising  for  the  project 
will  be  part  of  a  major  capital  cam- 


paign to  be  publicly  launched  in  the 
latter  half  of  1 998,  and  the  trustees 
have  called  for  ground  to  be  broken 
by  October  1 999. 

The  idea  of  a  WPI  campus  cen- 
ter has  been  germinating  for  many 
years.  The  dream  moved  closer  to 
reality  four  years  ago  when  then- 
WPI  president  Jon  Strauss  appointed 
a  broad-based  planning  committee, 
chaired  by  Janet  Begin  Richardson, 
assistant  vice  president  for  student 
affairs  and  dean  of  student  life,  to 
determine  what  a  campus  center 
would  add  to  WPI  and  to  define  the 
right  mix  of  facilities,  amenities  and 
services  needed  to  create  such  a 
center. 

The  committee  solicited  the 
opinions  of  more  than  40  campus 
focus  groups,  pored  through  infor- 
mation from  earlier  center  initia- 
tives, surveyed  the  literature  on  col- 
lege centers  worldwide,  and  visited 
campus  centers  throughout  the 
region.  Richardson  says  they  began 
by  asking,  "What's  missing  at  WPI?" 
The  most  common  response,  she 


£*!»  Uk»A_V^  PI Atii^_Roo  r* 


reports,  was  "a  place  in  the  center 
of  the  campus  for  the  community  to 
gather." 

The  focus  groups  also  told  the 
committee  that  WPI  lacked  ade- 
quate dining  facilities,  space  for 
group  study,  small  conference  and 
meeting  rooms,  multipurpose 
rooms,  and  offices  for  student 
organizations.  The  proposed  WPI 
center  will  have  all  that,  along  with  a 
bookstore,  a  postal  facility,  expand- 
ed food  and  dining  services,  a  game 
room,  lounges  and  a  campus  infor- 
mation desk. 

Richardson  says  the  new  center 
should  make  WPI  more  attractive 
to  prospective  students.  Campus 
centers,  she  notes,  can  provide  an 
immediate  "snapshot"  of  campus  life 
to  potential  students  and  influence 
applicants'  decisions  to  enroll  when 
academic  and  scholarship  consider- 
ations appear  equal  among  the 
colleges  they're  considering. 

The  center  will  also  fill  a  void  in 
the  social  and  academic  life  of  the 
campus,  she  says,  providing  WPI  stu- 
dents, faculty  and  staff  a  place  to 
gather  and  explore  common  social, 
intellectual  and  cultural  interests  in 
an  informal  setting.  And,  it  will  be  a 
common  ground  where  WPI's  diver- 
sity of  populations  (students,  faculty, 
staff,  alumni  and  visitors)  and  its 
diversity  of  functions  (offering  acade- 
mic programs,  housing  and  feeding 
students,  offering  opportunities  for 
social  and  recreational  involvement) 
will  come  together. 

"But  even  more  than  a  gather- 
ing place,  the  center  will  be  an 
important  adjunct  to  the  University's 
academic  programs,"  Richardson 
says.  "It  will  serve  as  a  social  'labor- 
atory' for  promoting  and  nurturing 
the  all-important  learning  and  matur- 
ing that  happens  outside  the  class- 
room and  lab — experiences  that  can 
be  critical  to  the  personal  and  social 
growth  that  is  so  essential  to  the  full 
realization  of  a  WPI  education." 

Even  without  a  gramophone, 
the  new  WPI  Campus  Center 
promises  to  be  a  "living  room" 
worth  the  wait. 

— Elizabeth  Walker 


WW" 


m  «u  niniWWIIillllll WHIM  111  irWIIllHT 


Take  off  from  WPI"  was 
the  message  printed  on 
balsa  airplanes  distributed 
at  WPI's  Global  Opportu- 
nities Fair  in  September  1997.  To 
get  the  students  launched,  next  fall 
the  University  will  help  every  eligible 
freshman  get  a  U.S.  passport.  All  stu- 
dents will  have  to  do  is  fill  out  the 
application — and  smile.  WPI  will 
pick  up  the  cost  of  the  application 
and  photos. 

WPI  contributes  the  largest 
share  of  the  U.S.  engineers  who 
have  gained  international  experience 
during  their  years  of  undergraduate 
education.  Some  30  percent  of  all 
undergraduates  complete  a  project 
at  an  off-campus  residential  site,  and 
about  a  third  of  all  faculty  have 
served  as  overseas  project  advisors. 

Those  numbers  may  soon  be 
rising.  After  a  global  projects  fair  this 
fall,  about  half  of  all  undergraduates 
indicated  an  interest  in  studying 
abroad. 

"We  want  to  attract  students 
who  understand  that  having  a  global 
perspective  and  experiencing  cultur- 
al diversity  is  important,"  says  Bob 
Voss,  executive  director  of  admis- 
sions and  financial  aid.  "WPI  believes 
that;  we  want  students  who  believe 
it,  too."  The  free  passport  program 
merely  reinforces  the  University's 
commitment  to  global  education,  he 
says.  WPI  is  also  purchasing  pass- 
ports for  all  eligible  students  accept- 
ed to  global  project  and  exchange 
programs  this  year. 

Having  a  passport  can  "open  the 
door  to  the  greatest  experience  in  a 
student's  life,"  says  Hossein  Hakim, 
associate  professor  of  electrical  and 
computer  engineering  and  director 
of  the  Global  Studies  Program. 
"What  we  offer  is  not  the  typical 
international  experience,"  he  says. 
"The  nearly  200  WPI  students  who 
will  travel  overseas  this  year  will  act 
as  consultants  to  organizations  that 
have  asked  us  to  help  them  solve  a 
problem.  This  is  experiential  learning 
applied  to  international  education." 

Once  on  the  ground  in  one  of 
the  1 7  countries  where  WPI  runs 
project  programs,  students  work  in 
teams  on  projects  for  nonprofit 
agencies,  government  organizations 


Pick  U|  A^AXJ^otffqili^FuML- 


or  corporations.  They  share  apart- 
ments or  live  in  student  housing, 
cooking  local  food  to  keep  expenses 
down.  They  spend  seven  weeks 
defining  and  responding  to  the  issues 
presented  to  them,  finishing  up  with 
a  presentation  to  their  sponsors  and 
a  detailed  project  report.  Most  pro- 
jects satisfy  the  requirements  for  the 
Interactive  Qualifying  Project  (IQP), 
which  asks  students  to  examine  the 
impact  of  technology  on  society. 

Recent  projects  include  a  market 
research  study  for  an  ecotourist  site 
in  a  Costa  Rican  rain  forest,  a  study 
of  the  feasibility  of  using  solar  energy 
in  a  Danish  high  school,  and  the 
development  of  a  graphical  database 
of  outdoor  art  in  Venice.  The  effects 
of  this  international  experience  is 
long-lasting.  Students  return  with  a 
changed  outlook  on  their  lives  and, 
often,  their  potential  careers. 

"Although  every  day  is  some- 
what of  a  struggle,  and  I  have  none 
of  the  comforts  of  home,"  wrote 
Luke  Poppish  '98  from  Coimbatore, 
India,  in  the  spring  of  1 997,  "the  fact 


is,  I  wouldn't  trade  this  journey  for 
the  world.  I  will  look  at  things  in  a 
different  light  when  I  return  to 
Worcester." 

"Students  who  go  overseas  are 
seen  as  risk  takers,  more  adaptive, 
able  to  deal  with  ambiguities,  and  as 
experienced  team  players,"  says 
Hakim.  "They  prove  they  can  write 
lengthy  reports  and  make  oral  pre- 
sentations to  people  they've  never 
met."  Their  international  experi- 
ences set  them  apart  from  other  job 
candidates,  he  says,  since  they're 
more  prepared  to  live  and  work  in 
a  global  society. 

As  more  and  more  students  and 
faculty  return  to  Worcester  ener- 
gized from  their  exposure  to  new 
ways  of  thinking  and  living,  WPI  will 
retain  its  undisputed  leadership  posi- 
tion in  global  technological  educa- 
tion. More  important,  the  campus 
atmosphere  will  become  one  of 
greater  understanding  of  the  variety 
of  cultures  and  perspectives  in  the 
world  beyond  Worcester. 

—Allison  Chisolm 


Provide  Global 
Opportunities  for 
Potentially  All 
Students 

Hossein  Hakim,  left,  and 
Bob  Voss  hope  that  giving 
incoming  students  free 
passports  will  make  dear 
WPI's  commitment  to 
leading  the  way  in  global 
technological  education. 


•Jlt^TAfEiY  CcjTfct  ^Azerflie  TrAfL^ 


Develop  Creative 
Pathways  to  Graduate 
Degrees 

David  Lucht  says  the  tools 
of  modern  distance  learning 
are  helping  his  department 
meet  a  strong  demand  for 
graduate  education  in  fire 
protection  engineering. 


Advanced  distance  edu- 
cation delivery  systems 
have  blurred  geographical 
boundaries  among  college 
campuses  and  increased  competi- 
tion in  the  traditional  markets  they 
serve.  Today's  high-tech  systems  for 
bringing  learning  to  students  rather 
than  students  to  campus  have  also 
removed  real  and  perceived  barriers 
to  attracting  adult  learners  who  live 
or  work  at  a  distance  from  a  college 
campus. 

This  technology-driven  libera- 
tion from  the  narrow  lines  on  the 
map  and  the  mile  markers  along  the 
highway  means  that  schools  can 
expand  their  geographic  base, 
extend  their  reach  into  untapped 
markets,  and  develop  innovative 
ways  for  students  to  earn  graduate 
degrees,  certificates  and  other  pro- 
fessional credentials. 

Among  the  trailblazers  in  this 
bold  new  world  is  WPI's  Center  for 
Firesafety  Studies,  the  first  academic 
program  in  fire  protection  engineer- 
ing to  offer  for-credit  fire  protection 


engineering  courses  to  practicing 
engineers  via  distance  learning  tech- 
nology. 

The  increasing  sophistication  of 
communications  and  information 
technology — including  e-mail,  two- 
way  interactive  video,  videotapes, 
the  Internet  and  the  World  Wide 
Web  — has  enabled  the  center  to 
deliver  courses  to  students  in  nearly 
50  communities  in  the  United  States 
and  Canada  through  WPI's  Advanced 
Distance  Learning  Network  (ADLN). 
David  Lucht,  director  of  the  center, 
tells  of  a  student  who  made  a  career 
move  to  England  midway  through  his 
academic  program  in  fire  protection 
engineering.  Through  ADLN,  he  was 
able  to  continue  his  studies. 

The  market  is  strong  for  contin- 
uing and  graduate  education  pro- 
grams. In  fact,  more  than  40  percent 
of  the  U.S.  adult  population  has  par- 
ticipated in  adult  education  activities 
over  the  past  few  years.  That  comes 
as  no  surprise  to  Lucht,  who  has 
seen  enrollment  in  the  fire  protec- 
tion program  more  than  triple  over 


the  past  1 5  years.  The  job  market  is 
strong  for  fire  protection  engineers, 
he  says.  The  center's  graduates  are 
sought  by  engineering  consulting 
firms,  public  utilities,  hospitals, 
hotels,  government  agencies,  insur- 
ance companies  and  many  other 
industries. 

Fire  protection  engineering  is  a 
multidisciplinary  field  that  attracts 
working  professionals  with  academic 
backgrounds  in  a  host  of  disciplines, 
including  chemical,  civil,  electrical, 
industrial  and  mechanical  engineer- 
ing. "We  offer  students  several 
options,  including  a  graduate  certifi- 
cate or  a  master's  degree  program. 
The  latter  usually  takes  five  or  six 
years  to  finish  on  a  part-time  basis," 
Lucht  says.  "Through  distance  learn- 
ing technology,  we  are  able  to  take 
these  programs  directly  to  the 
students." 

Lucht  says  distance  learning 
students  receive  the  same  lectures 
and  homework  assignments  as  do 
students  who  attend  classes  on  cam- 
pus. Courses  delivered  to  on-  and 
off-campus  students  originate  in 
WPI's  state-of-the-art  television 
classrooms.  They  are  either  offered 
through  two-way  interactive  video 
or  whisked  to  students  on  videotape 
via  express  mail,  depending  on  the 
facilities  available  to  the  student. 
Distance  learners  communicate 
with  professors  via  telephone,  fax 
and  e-mail. 

Lucht  says  the  distance  learning 
program  is  of  special  value  to  prac- 
ticing fire  protection  engineers  who 
want  to  keep  current  with  the  field. 
"The  technology  of  fire  protection  is 
changing  so  quickly  that  practicing 
engineers  need  to  keep  pace,"  he 
says.  "There's  no  better  place  to  do 
that  than  WPI." 

Lucht  says  the  growth  in  the 
popularity  of  his  department's  pro- 
grams is  due  as  much  to  word-of- 
mouth  as  it  is  to  the  center's  formal 
marketing  efforts.  "Our  students  talk 
to  their  colleagues  about  our  pro- 
grams," he  says.  "In  addition,  more 
and  more  people  are  finding  us  on 
the  Web.  There's  a  strong  market 
out  there;  we're  taking  it  one  step 
at  a  time." 

—ELIZABETH  WALKER 


——————■■'"■■"—""" 


Integrate  Education 
and  Research 


From  left,  Mars  robot  team 
members  Keisuke  Watanabe, 
John  Sullivan,  Ed  Gaboriault, 
Paul  Bunuan  (aloft),  Thomas 
Parent  and  Eben  Cobb 
conduct  a  bit  of  field  work. 


hen  the  first  human 
steps  onto  Martian 
soil,  there's  likely  to 
be  a  robotic  compan- 
ion tagging  along,  thanks  to  the  col- 
laborative design  work  of  engineers 
from  WPI  and  Hamilton  Standard  in 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  Dubbed 
FIDOE  (Fully  Independent  Delivery 
of  Expendables),  the  autonomous, 
self-propelled  robot  will  follow  an 
astronaut  on  daily  explorations, 
carrying  oxygen  and  equipment  for 
gathering  soil  and  rock  samples. 

It's  not  the  stuff  of  science  fic- 
tion anymore.  If  NASA's  current 
scenarios  prevail,  a  two-year 
manned  mission  to  Mars  will  take 
place  in  2009.  Two  years  earlier,  an 
unmanned  spaceship  will  drop  off 
equipment  to  establish  a  power 
plant  and  habitat  for  the  astronauts. 
The  astronauts  will  be  expected  to 
put  in  six-  to  eight-hour  days  on  the 
surface,  so  they  will  need  to  take 
multiple  life-support  packs  with 
them  on  their  excursions. 

"On  Mars,  which  has  about  one- 


third  of  Earth's  gravity,  people  won't 
be  able  to  carry  hundreds  of  pounds 
of  equipment,  as  astronauts  did  on 
the  Moon,"  says  team  advisor  John 
Sullivan  Jr.,  associate  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering.  "They'll 
need  a  robot  that  can  act  like  a 
pack  mule,  following  close  by  and 
responding  to  voice  commands." 

Together  with  Eben  Cobb,  visit- 
ing assistant  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering,  Sullivan  supervises  a 
research  team  that  includes  senior 
mechanical  engineering  majors  Ed 
Gaboriault,  Thomas  Parent  and 
Keisuke  Watanabe,  who  are  designing 
the  power  train  and  transmission  for 
their  Major  Qualifying  Project,  and 
manufacturing  engineering  graduate 
student  Paul  Bunuan,  who  is  design- 
ing the  communication  and  remote 
sensing  systems.  The  team  expects  to 
have  a  prototype  ready  for  Hamilton 
Standard  early  in  1 998. 

"I  view  research  as  education," 
Sullivan  says.  "You're  usually  step- 
ping out  into  areas  you  don't  know." 
That's  especially  true  for  the  Mars 


-_  _V!/Altir^FIPOB  oti  M_akt 


robot  project,  he  notes,  which  has 
required  the  team  to  integrate 
knowledge  from  several  disciplines 
—many  of  which  they  had  had  little 
or  no  exposure  to  previously. 

The  prototype  robot,  which  will 
measure  just  3  feet  wide  by  3  feet 
long,  must  perform  a  multitude  of 
functions.  It  must  be  rugged  enough 
to  traverse  the  rocky  Martian  land- 
scape carrying  heavy  equipment — 
and  even  an  injured  person.  It  must 
be  smart  enough  to  track  an  astro- 
naut with  a  radio  triangulation  sys- 
tem and  detect  and  avoid  obstacles. 
It  must  monitor  the  condition  of  the 
astronaut  and  record  the  feeds  from 
video  cameras  and  microphones 
built  into  the  astronauts'  helmets. 
And,  it  must  carry  an  oxygen  storage 
system  that  can  be  easily  connected 
several  times  a  day  to  the  space  suit 
that  will  be  designed  by  Hamilton 
Standard. 

Hamilton  Standard  contacted 
WPI  about  collaborating  on  the  Mars 
robot  project  in  the  spring  of  1 997 
after  WPI's  strong  performance  in 
the  annual  FIRST  robot  competition. 
FIRST  (www.usfirst.org)  is  a  national 
creative  engineering  contest  featur- 
ing high  school,  industry  and  univer- 
sity partnerships.  Each  team  has 
seven  weeks  to  brainstorm,  design, 
construct  and  test  their  robot.  Sulli- 
van advised  the  WPI  and  Massachu- 
setts Academy  of  Mathematics  and 
Science  high  school  team.  The  team, 
with  its  robot,  "Extensor,"  won  the 
Proctor  &  Gamble  Creativity  Award 
in  the  Mid-Atlantic  regional  competi- 
tion and  the  Number  One  Seed 
Award  in  the  national  competition  at 
EPCOT  Center  in  Orlando,  Fla. 

The  integration  of  research  and 
education  represented  by  the  Mars 
robot  project  continues  when  Sulli- 
van and  Cobb  enter  the  classroom. 
Sullivan  uses  numerous  components 
of  the  project  in  his  engineering 
experimentation  course.  Similarly, 
multiple  robotic  components  are 
designed  and  modeled  in  Cobb's 
course  Introduction  to  Computer- 
Aided  Design  "There  really  are  no 
clear  boundaries  between  education 
and  research,"  Cobb  says.  "It's  an 
integrated  process  all  the  time." 

—ALLISON  CHISOLM 


m     m  any  e'ements  °f  tne 

gkja    WPI  Plan  have 
»^^       changed  since  1970; 
™     others  may  well 
change  in  the  future,"  the  Strategic 
Planning  Steering  Committee  noted 
in  its  April  1 997  draft  report.  "What 
we  seek  is  to  reinvigorate  the  spirit 
of  the  Plan,  not  recapture  all  its 
mechanisms.  Values  endure;  their 
expression  may  change.  It  is  thus 
important  to  recognize  that  several 
of  the  principal  ambitions  expressed 
in  the  Plan  have  not  been  realized." 

One  of  those  ambitions,  the 
committee  noted,  was  to  coordinate 
learning  and  doing  throughout  the 
curriculum.  Thanks  to  a  two-year, 
$200,000  grant  from  the  National 
Science  Foundation,  that  ambition  is 
beginning  to  be  realized.  The  award 
is  funding  an  innovative  program 
aimed  at  extending  the  benefits  of 
integrative,  project-based  learning, 
the  hallmark  of  the  Plan,  into  the 
first  two  years  of  a  typical  under- 
graduate career. 


Students  typically  spend  much 
of  their  first  two  years  learning  fun- 
damental concepts  in  math,  science 
and  engineering.  According  to  Judith 
Miller,  professor  of  biology  and 
biotechnology  and  director  of  WPI's 
Center  for  Educational  Develop- 
ment, they  often  fail  to  see  how  the 
principles  of  one  discipline  relate  to 
the  concepts  they're  learning  in  oth- 
er courses,  or  why  those  concepts 
will  be  important  in  later  course  and 
project  work.  "They  might  know 
how  to  solve  an  equation  in  calculus, 
but  they  can't  see  how  it  applies  to  a 
problem  in  chemistry  or  physics," 
she  says. 

The  first  two  years  also  offer 
students  few  opportunities  to 
engage  in  the  kind  of  project  work 
that  will  characterize  their  junior  and 
senior  years.  Project  work  enables 
students  to  put  what  they  learn  in 
the  classroom  to  practical  use  by 
solving  complex  problems.  By  work- 
ing in  groups  on  projects,  they  also 
learn  about  teamwork,  managing 


complex  assignments  and  communi- 
cating professionally — skills  that  will 
be  vital  in  their  careers. 

"The  NSF  grant  will  help  us 
address  both  the  lack  of  project 
experience  and  the  lack  of  integra- 
tion in  the  first  two  years,  and  also 
help  students  acquire  skills  that  will 
be  critical  to  the  successful  comple- 
tion of  their  required  projects  and, 
later,  to  their  professional  careers," 
says  Arthur  Heinricher,  associate 
professor  of  mathematics  and  the 
author  of  the  NSF  proposal.  "The 
vehicle  for  accomplishing  this  is  what 
we're  calling  bridge  projects." 

Heinricher  says  the  idea  behind 
bridge  projects  is  that  freshmen  and 
sophomores  taking  introductory 
classes  in  fundamental  subjects  must 
see  how  the  concepts  in  those  sub- 
jects relate  to  one  another.  Each 
project  will  build  curricular  and  con- 
ceptual bridges  between  a  pair  of 
introductory  courses — for  example, 
biology  and  chemistry,  or  calculus 
and  physics.  The  instructors  in  both 


fe»!  JipA  ^hJfltr  foJUoJctrfAtfJifig 


courses  will  work  together  to  devel- 
op examples,  assignments  and  pro- 
jects that  require  students  to  use 
aspects  of  both  disciplines. 

The  bridge  project  program 
will  take  advantage  of  the  concept  of 
the  peer  learning  assistant  (PLA),  an 
innovation  developed  by  Miller  and 
others  with  support  from  the  Davis 
Educational  Foundation.  PLAs  are 
students  who  help  instructors  of 
introductory  courses  work  more 
efficiently  by  assisting  student  groups 
with  projects  and  assigned  tasks. 
"PLAs  must  have  taken  the  courses 
before  and  have  good  academic 
records  and  good  interpersonal 
skills,"  Miller  says.  "For  their  efforts, 
they  receive  a  stipend,  along  with 
valuable  experience  in  teamwork 
and  project  management. 

"The  NSF  award  will  have  many 
positive  outcomes  for  WPI,"  Miller 
adds.  "It  will  bring  faculty  members 
from  different  disciplines  together  to 
think  about  education.  Just  as  impor- 
tant, it  will  help  WPI  continue  to 
build  its  reputation  as  a  center  for 
curricular  innovation  and  as  a  model 
for  engineering  educators  across  the 
country." 

—Michael  Dorsey 


*  Continue  To  innovate  in 
Undergraduate  Programs 

Art  Heinricher  and  Judith 
Miller  are  extending  the 
benefits  of  project  work 
throughout  the  curriculum 
and  helping  students  see 
the  links  between  concepts 
in  math  and  science. 


Agile,  flexible  and  able  to 
adapt  to  a  changing  envi- 
ronment. Those  charac- 
teristics can  save  a 
species  from  extinction.  They're  also 
the  attributes  career-minded  profes- 
sionals— as  well  as  institutions  of 
higher  education — must  have  to 
thrive  in  today's  highly  competitive, 
ever  changing  marketplace. 

WPI's  Office  of  Continuing  Edu- 
cation has  provided  market-driven 
professional  education  programs  to 
nearly  45,000  people  in  the  last  two 
decades.  The  content  of  those  pro- 
grams has  evolved  to  keep  pace  with 
the  new  knowledge  and  sophisti- 
cated delivery  systems  wrought  by 
rapid-fire  technological  advances. 
The  competition  from  other  educa- 
tional service  providers  has  grown 
stronger,  as  well.  WPI,  like  the 
working  professionals  who  enroll  in 
its  classes,  knows  the  importance  of 
acquiring  new  knowledge,  upgrading 
skills,  and  expanding  its  reach  to 
remain  a  strong  contender  in  an 
increasingly  global  market. 

Knowledge  and  skills  run  a  daily 
race  with  obsolescence  in  today's 
high-tech  work  environments.  To 
get  ahead,  stay  ahead,  or  retool  their 
skills,  unprecedented  numbers  of 
professionals  today  are  seeking  edu- 
cational opportunities  that  are  both 
relevant  and  accessible.  WPI  is 
reaching  out  to  that  significant  mar- 
ket in  the  Northeast  by  offering  its 
certificate,  graduate  and  continuing 
education  programs  on  campus  and 
at  new  branch  campuses  in  West- 
boro  and  Waltham,  Mass. 

One  of  the  largest  concentra- 
tions of  high  technology  profession- 
als in  New  England  lives  and  works 
near  Rte.  1 28,  outside  of  Boston. 
Now,  as  that  skilled  workforce  races 
along  this  busy  stretch  of  road,  a 
large  sign  on  the  side  of  a  tall  office 
building  beacons  them  to  the  WPI 
Waltham  Campus.  According  to 
Arlene  Lowenstein,  director  of  con- 
tinuing education  at  WPI,  the  Uni- 
versity chose  the  site  of  its  second 
branch  campus  carefully. 

"We  went  where  the  industries 
and  the  greatest  number  of  technical 
professionals  are  concentrated,"  she 


jjlhl/jrTA  oj7  CJlArrge  Irr  VUMwun 


says.  "We  went  into  Waltham  with 
high  expectations." 

Those  expectations  have  been 
exceeded  since  day  one,  largely  due 
to  WPI's  reputation  for  high-caliber 
education.  "It's  been  gratifying  to  see 
the  response  from  individuals  and 
the  business  community  to  our  pres- 
ence in  Waltham,"  Lowenstein  says. 

The  1 5, 000-square-foot  facility 
boasts  the  latest  in  computing  equip- 
ment and  technology.  In  its  six  class- 
rooms, including  two  state-of-the-art 
computer  labs,  WPI  faculty  teach 
certificate  programs  in  client/server 
technology,  UNIX/C  programming 
and  C++  programming,  along  with 
evening  courses  and  graduate  degree 
programs  in  management,  computer 
science  and  several  engineering  disci- 
plines. During  the  work  week,  many 
professional  development  seminars 
and  customized  corporate  training 
programs  meet  there. 

The  campus's  core  clientele  is 
the  fastest  growing  academic  popu- 
lation today — the  adult  learners.  The 


demographics  of  the  American  col- 
lege population  have  changed  dra- 
matically in  the  past  decade.  Nearly 
half  of  all  students  enrolled  in  col- 
leges nationwide  attend  school  part 
time.  Adults  25  and  older  account 
for  half  of  all  college-credit-seeking 
students  and  half  of  all  graduate  stu- 
dents. The  adult  population's  return 
to  school  is  tied  to  the  rapid  pace  at 
which  technology  continues  to 
change  the  workplace.  The  scale  of 
those  changes  has  sent  a  clear  mes- 
sage to  employees  in  every  industry. 
Lifelong  learning  has  become  an 
unspoken  condition  of  employment 
because  knowledge  is  both  a  perish- 
able commodity  and  a  resource  that 
must  be  continually  renewed. 

"Like  today's  working  profes- 
sionals, we  at  WPI  can't  stand  still," 
Lowenstein  says.  "We  need  to  be  at 
the  forefront  in  the  educational  ser- 
vices and  training  we  offer,  if  we  are 
to  stay  competitive  in  a  changing 
marketplace." 

—ELIZABETH  WALKER 


Recognize  and  Adapt  to 
Continuing  Change 

Arlene  Lowenstein  says 
creating  a  branch  campus 
in  Waltham  has  enabled  WPI 
to  reach  out  to  one  of  the 
nation's  largest  concentra- 
tions of  high  technology 
workers. 


Riq^Uijc  Culfntc  JrL+t^Moi/iclAt: 


Make  Creative  Use 
of  information 
Technology 

>4nge/  Rivera,  left,  with 
the  help  of  Mike  0' Neil, 
used  the  high-tech 
tools  in  a  new  multi- 
media lab  to  bring  Latin 
American  culture  alive 
for  his  students. 


The  Nutty  Professor"  and 
"Grumpy  Old  Men,"  read 
the  signs  on  the  walls. 
They're  not  descriptions 
of  instructors  left  by  disgruntled  stu- 
dents; they're  movie  posters  that 
decorate  WPI's  newest  multimedia 
computer  lab.  But  the  first  class  to 
make  use  of  the  Movie  Lab  took  stu- 
dents far  from  Tinseltown. 

Students  who  took  "Topics  in 
Latin  American  Culture"  in  the  fall  of 
1 997  met  in  the  Movie  Lab  on  a  reg- 
ular basis  to  access  audio  and  video 
clips,  review  World  Wide  Web  sites, 
and  make  presentations  relying  on 
student-created  Web  pages.  The 
class  also  met  in  a  traditional  class- 
room to  work  on  Spanish  conversa- 
tional skills  and  to  discuss  course 
material. 

"The  technology  is  an  enhance- 
ment for  education,  not  a  replace- 
ment," says  course  instructor  Angel 
Rivera,  assistant  professor  of  Span- 
ish, whose  foray  into  the  technologi- 
cal world  of  the  Movie  Lab  was  an 
education  in  itself.  Beginning  with 


only  basic  computer  skills,  he 
received  a  tutorial  from  Mike 
O'Neil,  instructional  designer  in 
WPI's  Instructional  Media  Center 
(IMC),  and  then  spent  many  hours 
learning  to  set  up  a  Web  site  for  his 
course,  which  includes  maps, 
images,  video  clips,  lecture  sum- 
maries, concept  and  vocabulary 
reviews,  and  study  questions. 

In  addition  to  serving  as  an  aid 
in  class  discussions,  Rivera  says,  the 
Web  "gives  students  some  power. 
They  come  to  the  lab  on  their  own 
to  review  course  material  and  create 
their  own  Web  pages — in  Spanish — 
for  their  final  presentation.  I  was 
tired  of  receiving  traditional  papers. 
When  a  student  submits  a  Web 
page,  suddenly  it's  not  a  flat  paper 
anymore.  It  branches  out  in  many 
directions." 

Students  in  the  class  worked  in 
teams  of  three  or  four  to  create  two 
Web  pages:  one  presenting  histori- 
cal, political,  geographical  and  cultur- 
al background  on  a  selected  Latin 
American  country,  and  a  second 


exploring  a  topic  such  as  economic 
and  political  problems  in  Puerto  Rico 
or  racial  questions  in  the  Hispanic 
Caribbean. 

The  results  were  impressive, 
Rivera  says.  One  presentation  on 
Puerto  Rico  included  a  link  to  audio 
clips  of  Puerto  Rican  music.  Other 
links  introduced  sources  in  both 
Spanish  and  English,  including  daily 
newspapers.  Students  really  "soaked 
up  information,"  Rivera  says.  "They 
had  to  write,  listen,  talk  and  respond 
in  Spanish.  And  they  fielded  some 
tough  questions  from  their  peers." 

O'Neil  has  seen  this  magic  work 
before.  "The  process  of  building 
interactive  Web  pages  encourages 
you  to  come  up  with  new  ideas  and 
perspectives,  and  to  dig  deeper  into 
a  subject  than  you  might  otherwise." 

Located  on  the  ground  floor  of 
Fuller  Labs,  the  Movie  Lab  is  the 
product  of  the  collaboration  of  Lee 
Fontanella,  head  of  the  Humanities 
and  Arts  Department,  David  Cygan- 
ski,  professor  of  electrical  and  com- 
puter engineering,  Pennie  Turgeon, 
director  of  the  IMC,  and  Helen 
Shuster,  director  of  the  Gordon 
Library.  It  was  made  possible  by 
a  $200,000  contribution  from  the 
Class  of  1 956,  part  of  its  40th  anni- 
versary gift  to  WPI  that  also  made 
possible  a  new  library  computer 
system.  The  Hollywood  theme  was 
selected  to  foster  a  more  creative 
environment,  O'Neil  says. 

Seating  28,  the  lab  is  equipped 
with  14  powerful  multimedia  PCs 
loaded  with  a  large  assortment  of 
graphics,  word  processing,  3-D  ani- 
mation and  Web  authoring  software. 
On  top  of  each  computer  sits  a  small 
video  camera  that,  in  concert  with 
special  software,  can  enable  students 
to  see  and  talk  with  people  around 
the  world.  "This  is  an  exciting  appli- 
cation for  language  instruction,"  says 
O'Neil. 

Other  innovative  applications 
will  be  added  as  new  courses  in  the 
humanities,  arts,  and  electrical  and 
computer  engineering  are  taught 
using  the  lab's  facilities.  Notes 
O'Neil,  the  Movie  Lab's  potential, 
like  the  imagination  of  Hollywood 
itself,  is  virtually  limitless. 

—ALLISON  CHISOLM 


. 


^^^    ood  neighbors  reach 
^r  out  to  each  other,  share 

§      ^^  resources,  and  build 
^^^^W     long-term  relationships 
That's  how  strong  communities  are 
created,  nurtured  and  sustained. 
WPI,  a  good  neighbor  in  Worcester 
County  for  nearly  1 30  years,  is 
reaching  out  in  new  directions  to 
populations  that  might  not  find  their 
way  to  campus  without  such 
encouragement.  Camp  REACH  is 
one  such  effort. 

A  two-week  overnight  adven- 
ture in  engineering,  Camp  REACH 
(Reinventing  Engineering  and  Creat- 
ing new  Horizons)  offers  its  campers 
no  hikes,  no  boating,  no  campfires, 
no  marshmallows,  no  mosquitoes. 
Instead,  it  provides  a  hands-on  intro- 
duction to  engineering  for  girls  in 
Worcester  County  who  are  entering 
the  seventh  grade.  Applications 
poured  in  for  its  first  session,  held 
last  summer  on  campus. 

The  camp  directors,  Denise 
Nicoletti,  associate  professor  of  elec- 
trical and  computer  engineering,  and 
Chrys  Demetry,  Norton  assistant 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering, 
selected  30  campers  without  regard 
to  academic  record.  They  wanted  to 
reach  girls  who  might  not  otherwise 
have  explored  engineering  as  a 
career  option.  They  organized  Camp 
REACH  with  help  from  WPI's  Minor- 
ity Affairs  and  Outreach  Programs 
Office,  and  with  funding  from  the 
National  Science  Foundation. 

"For  some  reason,  many  girls  in 
this  age  group  begin  to  lose  interest 
in  math  and  science,  and  start  to  fall 
behind  the  boys,"  Nicoletti  says. 
"We  want  to  catch  them  before 
that  happens.  It's  a  detriment  to  the 
community  when  a  large  segment 
of  the  population  is  left  out  of  mak- 
ing decisions  about  engineering 
careers." 

Often,  the  girls  whose  math  and 
science  test  scores  fall  in  adoles- 
cence are  the  same  ones  who  earlier 
showed  aptitude  in  those  disciplines. 
While  the  reasons  behind  the  decline 
are  still  being  debated,  the  implica- 
tions are  all  too  clear:  the  number 
of  women  pursuing  careers  in  math 
and  some  sciences  has  increased 
sharply  since  the  late  1 970s,  but  the 


growth  is  not  as  strong  for  women 
going  into  engineering. 

To  pique  girls'  interest  in  engi- 
neering as  both  a  career  and  a  collab- 
orative process  for  solving  everyday 
problems,  Nicoletti  and  Demetry 
organized  the  camp  curriculum 
around  several  community-based 
engineering  projects  for  Worcester- 
area  clients.  Working  in  three  teams, 
campers  redesigned  the  supplies  and 
recycling  room  at  a  day  care  center, 
designed  a  toy  and  book  storage  area 
for  a  hospital  pediatric  ward,  and  put 
together  an  information  resource 
for  parents  of  premature  infants  in 
a  neonatal  intensive  care  unit.  They 
also  participated  in  on-  and  off- 
campus  workshops  that  focused  on 
various  specialties  within  engineering. 
A  favorite,  conducted  on  a  Cape 
Cod  beach,  encouraged  campers 
to  "examine  the  building  dynamics 
and  material  properties  of  sand." 
They  built  sand  castles. 

The  camp  experience  will  res- 
onate throughout  the  community 
and  beyond,  Nicoletti  says.  "I  think 


Camp  REACH  will  make  a  significant 
contribution  because  it  involves  a 
wide  range  of  people — not  only  the 
campers  but  their  parents,  several 
high  school  students  who  serve  as 
counselors,  the  teachers  and  the 
clients.  All  those  groups  see  what 
college  life  is  like  at  WPI.  The  camp- 
ers were  so  excited  to  be  in  a  col- 
lege atmosphere — just  to  eat  in  the 
cafeteria  and  sleep  in  the  dorms." 

The  end  of  the  two-week  camp 
signified  the  start  of  the  next  phase 
in  the  relationship  between  the  girls 
and  WPI.  Nicoletti  and  Demetry  will 
bring  the  campers  back  for  a  reunion 
and  a  follow-up  on  their  projects. 
Some  could  come  back  to  campus  as 
members  of  WPI's  Class  of  2007.  It's 
difficult  to  predict  the  choices  1 2- 
year-olds  will  make  within  the  hour, 
let  alone  years  from  now.  But  there 
is  one  certainty:  30  Worcester 
County  girls  had  their  educational 
interests  broadened  and  career 
options  expanded  when  WPI 
reached  out  to  its  young  neighbors. 
—ELIZABETH  WALKER 


Improve  Community 
Relations  and  Diversity 

At  Worcester's  Burncoat 
Middle  School  are  campers 
Joslyn  Foley,  left,  and  Erin 
Dalianis  with,  from  left, 
Denise  Nicoletti,  Chrys 
Demetry  and  Assistant 
Principal  Alice  Bowen. 


il^jCK'?2^ttcNei^i>o^o?iL- 


The  progress  made  by  the  WPI  community  toward  the  development  of  a  new  strategil 

the  only  reason  to  look  back  on  the  academic  year  just  concluded.  WPI  also  became  one  of  the  firs] 

criteria.  It  inaugurated  its  14th  president.  And,  aided  by  an  award-winning  World  Wide  Web  site,  it  recorded  an 


Accreditation 
Brings  Rewards 
for  WPI  and  Its 
President 

Engineering  accredita- 
tion figured  prominently 
in  the  events  of  1996-97, 
although  two  of  the 
most  significant  devel- 
opments occurred  after 
the  academic  year  offi- 
cially closed.  In  the  first, 
WPFs  programs  in 
chemical,  civil,  electri- 
cal, manufacturing  and 
mechanical  engineering 
were  re-accredited  and 
the  program  in  industrial  engineering 
gained  initial  accreditation  by  the  Accredita- 
tion Board  for  Engineering  and  Technology 
(ABET).  In  the  second,  WPI  president 


President  Parrish  accepts 
the  Fellow  of  ABET  Award 


colleges  and  universities, 
bestowed  its  1997  Fellow  of 
ABET  Award  on  Parrish. 
WPI's  president  was  one 
of  three  educators  honored 
for  giving  "sustained  quality 
service  to  the  engineering 
profession,  in  general,  and 
to  engineering  education, 
in  particular,  through  the 
activities  of  ABET." 

Parrish  was  honored  for 
his  leadership  of  ABET's 
Engineering  Accreditation 
Commission  and  the  com- 
mission's Criteria  Commit- 
tee. The  committee  paved 
the  way  for  the  creation  of  a  new  approach 
to  accrediting  engineering  programs,  one 
that  departs  dramatically  from  the  method- 
ology ABET  has  employed  for  decades. 


Edward  A.  Parrish  received  one  of  the  high-      Called  Engineering  Criteria  2000,  the  new 


est  honors  bestowed  by  ABET.  The  com- 
mon thread  in  both  events  was  a  bold  new 
set  of  engineering  accreditation  criteria 
developed  under  the  leadership  of  Parrish 
and  first  applied  to  WPI  and  one  other  tech- 
nological university. 

In  October  1997,  at  its  annual  meeting 
in  Washington,  D.C.,  ABET,  the  organiza- 
tion responsible  for  accrediting  engineering 
and  technology  programs  at  the  nation's 


approach  shares  many  of  the  qualities  of 
the  WPI  Plan,  the  University's  outcomes- 
oriented  curriculum.  In  a  major  address 
to  the  ABET  annual  assembly,  Parrish  ex- 
plained why  the  new  criteria  were  needed. 

He  noted  that  ABET's  criteria  had 
expanded  from  1 V4  pages  of  simple  precepts 
in  1957  to  19  V2  pages  of  detailed  rides  by 
1997.  Accounting  for  a  significant  portion  of 
the  growth  were  increasingly  detailed  and 


prescriptive  discipline-specific  criteria 
requested  by  various  engineering  profes- 
sional societies  and  associations.  The  result, 
he  said,  was  "a  document  that  some  view  as 
encouraging  a  'cookie-cutter'  approach  to 
engineering  education. ...Consequently,  the 
emphasis  has  been  on  examining  what 
courses  students  passed  rather  than  what 
they  learned  and  could  do,  as  well  as  a  lack 
of  encouragement  for  experimentation  with 
new  pedagogy  or  curricula." 

In  the  early  1990s,  concern  about 
ABET's  bean-counting  approach  to  accredi- 
tation came  to  a  head.  The  organization's 
board  appointed  the  Accreditation  Process 
Review  Committee,  which  confirmed  the 
need  to  overhaul  the  criteria.  In  1994,  with 
support  from  the  National  Science  Founda- 
tion, ABET  sponsored  a  series  of  workshops 
on  accreditation.  The  criteria  workshop, 
chaired  by  Parrish  and  Ira  Jacobson,  chair- 
elect  of  ABET's  Engineering  Accreditation 
Commission  (EAC),  brought  together  60 
participants  from  industry,  government  and 
academia,  who  recommended  that  ABET 
throw  out  its  existing  criteria  and  build  a 
new  set  of  rides  from  the  ground  up. 

Over  the  course  of  a  year,  the  Criteria 
Committee  developed  new  criteria,  called 
Engineering  Criteria  2000,  that  were  unani- 
mously approved  at  the  1995  annual  meet- 
ing of  the  EAC.  In  November  1995,  Parrish, 


12 


FALL  1997 


MM.WMHMIIHI1II 


OHUHiyuflaatd 


Ian  (see  pages  2-11)  was  one  of  the  most  significant  events  of  1 996-97,  but  it  is  not 

wo  universities  in  the  United  States  to  be  evaluated  under  a  new  set  of  engineering  accreditation 

xceptional  year  in  admissions.  Here  are  the  details  behind  these  and  a  number  of  the  year  s  other  accomplishments. 


as  newly  elected  EAC  chairman,  brought 
the  new  criteria  before  the  hill  ABET  board, 
which  also  approved  them  unanimously. 

Because  of  the  major  philosophical 
change  represented  by  the  new  criteria,  they 
are  being  phased  in  between  now  and  2001. 
In  the  interim,  five  universities  are  being 
evaluated  under  the  new  rules  in  a  pilot  test 
program.  Because  of  its  experience  with  out- 
comes-oriented education,  WPI  was  asked 
to  be  one  of  the  first  two  schools  to  experi- 
ence Engineering  Criteria  2000. 

A  team  of  visitors  arrived  at  WPI  in  the 
fall  of  1996  to  begin  a  thorough  review  of 
six  of  the  university's  engineering  programs. 
The  exercise  proved  a  learning  experience 
for  ABET  and  WPI.  ABET  learned  from 
WPI's  experience  with  designing  and  imple- 
menting outcomes-oriented  programs  and 
WPI  gained  insight  into  the  strengths  and 
weaknesses  of  its  own  methods  for  measur- 
ing outcomes.  The  result,  accreditation  for 
all  six  programs,  was  a  significant  accom- 
plishment, Parrish  says.  "A  great  many 
members  of  the  faculty  and  administration 
worked  hard  to  prepare  for  the  ABET  visit 
and  to  compile  the  information  ABET 
needed  to  evaluate  our  programs,"  he  says. 
"I  think  the  positive  outcome  is  as  much  a 
tribute  to  their  tremendous  effort,  as  it  is  an 
affirmation  of  the  quality  of  the  education 
we  offer." 


Student  Authors/Web  Help  Snare 
Record  Applicant  Pool 

WPI  had  one  of  its  most  successful  admissions 
years  ever  in  1996-97.  More  than  3,100  stu- 
dents applied  for  admission  to  the  Class  of 
2001,  the  largest  applicant  pool  in  the  Univer- 
sity's history.  When  all  was  said  and  done,  688 
of  those  students  matriculated  in  the  fall  of 
1997.  The  class,  one  of  die  largest  and  most 
academically  accomplished  that  WPI  has 
enrolled,  included  155  women  and  34  students 
of  color.  W7ith  these  additions,  the  proportion 
of  women  and  students  of  color  in  the  under- 
graduate student  body  rose  to  22  percent  and 
4.8  percent,  respectively. 

The  Admissions  Office  credits  some  of 
its  success  to  the  W;orld  W^ide  Web.  WPI 
was  one  of  just  a  few  universities  in  the 
nation  to  offer  prospective  students  the 
opportunity  to  submit  an  application 
through  the  Web  last  year.  WPI's  Web 
form  was  unique  in  enabling  students  to  save 
a  partially  complete  application  if  they  need- 
ed time  to  obtain  information  or  to  think. 
Nearly  half  of  applications  for  the  Class  of 
2001  were  received  electronically — 800  over 
the  Web  and  another  700  on  computer  disk. 

The  content  and  design  of  the  Universi- 
ty's WAeb  site  may  also  have  played  a  role  in 
the  successful  admissions  year.  The  site  was 
recognized  for  its  completeness  and  utility 
by  two  publications.  NctGuide,  an  online 


magazine  about  the  Internet,  named  WPI's 
W^eb  a  Gold  Site,  a  designation  reserved  for 
the  top  places  on  the  Web.  WPI  was  one  ot 
1 5,000  sites  so  honored.  WPI  was  one  of 
300  colleges  included  in  Your  Personal  Net- 
College  1997,  a  guidebook  that  rated  the 
technological  sophistication  of  schools.  WPI 
earned  a  perfect  5  out  of  5  "wired"  rating 
and  an  A+  rating  for  its  Web  site. 

Another  plus  for  the  Admissions  Office 
was  its  1996-97  viewbook — the  glossy 
marketing  publication  sent  to  prospective 
students.  In  an  innovative  move,  the  office 
asked  some  WPI  students  (above)  to  write 
the  book.  "If  there's  one  thing  college  stu- 
dents are  always  willing  to  share,  it's  their 
opinions,"  notes  Robert  G.  Voss,  executive 
director  of  admissions  and  financial  aid.  "If 
there's  one  thing  prospective  students  most 
want  to  hear  as  they  move  through  the  col- 
lege admissions  process,  it's  the  opinions  of 
students  already  attending  the  school  the) 
are  interested  in  applying  to."  The  book 
garnered  high  praise  from  students,  parents 
and  college  marketers,  Voss  says. 

WPI  Installs  14th  President 
With  Style 

On  Sept.  20,  1996,  in  a  ceremony  in  Har- 
rington Auditorium,  Edward  A.  Parrish 
accepted  the  WPI  charter  and  the  mantle 
of  leadership,  formally  becoming  the  Uni- 


WPI  JOURNAL 


13 


THE     YEAR      IN      REVIEW 


versity's  14th  president.  In  addition  to  the 
formal  installation  event,  the  daylong  inau- 
guration included  a  luncheon  for  about 
1,800  guests  under  a  huge  white  tent,  a 
symposium  on  the  future  of  technological 
education  held  in  Alden  Memorial,  a  recep- 
tion in  Higgins  House  that  showcased  the 
performing  arts  at  WPI,  and  a  gala  dinner 
back  in  Harrington. 

Special  guests  included  Claire  Gaudiani, 
president  of  Connecticut  College,  who  deliv- 
ered an  inspirational  address  during  the 
installation  ceremony,  and  symposium  partic- 
ipants Eleanor  Baum,  dean  of  the  School  of 
Engineering  at  Cooper  Union;  Douglas 
Bowman,  director  of  electronics  and  infor- 
mation technology  at  Lockheed  Martin  Cor- 
poration; Frederick  E.  Hutchinson,  president 
of  the  University  of  Maine;  David  A.  Kettler, 
executive  director  of  science  and  technology 
at  Bell-South  Corporation;  Mark  M.  Little, 
vice  president  for  power  generation  at  GE 
Power  Systems;  and  George  D.  Peterson, 
executive  director  of  ABET. 


John  Nelson  and  Ed  Parrish  take  a  mo- 
ment to  relax  after  the  board  chairman 
formally  installed  WPI's  14th  president. 

In  his  address,  titled  "Making  a  Differ- 
ence," Parrish  pointed  to  the  "clarion  calls" 
for  change  in  technological  higher  educa- 
tion that  have  been  sounded  by  industry, 
government  and  academia,  and  to  the 
national  studies  that  have  made  recommen- 
dations for  improving  the  quality  and  effec- 
tiveness of  technological  education.  "As  one 
of  a  relatively  small  number  of  technological 
universities  in  this  country,"  he  said,  "WPI 
has  a  special  responsibility  in  helping  to 
meet  those  challenges.  It  is  in  these  chal- 
lenges that  I  envision  great  opportunities  for 
WPI  over  the  next  decade." 

In  fact,  he  noted,  WPI,  with  its  consider- 
able experience  in  project-based  learning  and 


outcomes-driven  education,  is  in  an  excellent 
position  to  lead  the  "cultural  change"  that 
will  sweep  the  nation's  universities.  (The 
complete  text  of  Parrish's  address  and  a 
report  on  his  inauguration  can  be  found  in 
the  December  1996  WPIJounml). 

New  Initiatives  Improve  Student 
Services 

WPI  added  a  number  of  new 
services  and  programs  for  its 
students  during  the  academic 
year.  The  first  is  aimed  at  help- 
ing undergraduates  become 
better  leaders,  communicators, 
team  members  and  team 
builders — skills  that  are  highly 
valued  by  business  and  industry 
today.  Called  LEAP  (Leader- 
ship Education  and  Practice),  it 
is  a  four-year  self-assessment, 
education,  training  and  practice 
process  established  to  prepare 
undergraduates  for  their  future 
roles  as  professionals. 

LEAP  was  the  brainchild  of 
Yvonne  Harrison,  director  of 
the  Career  Development  Cen- 
ter, Andrea  Dorow,  assistant 
director  for  student  activities,  and  Thomas 
Balistrieri,  director  of  student  development 
and  counseling.  An  advisory  board  made  up 
of  1 8  representatives  from  the  business  and 
Worcester  communities  and  the  WPI  facul- 
ty7, staff  and  student  body  helped  plan  the 
noncredit  program,  which  was  offered  to  75 
students  during  its  initial  year.  "LEAP  is  a 
cutting-edge  program  unlike  any  other  in 
the  country,"  Balistrieri  says.  "It  gives  WPI 
students  leadership  opportunities  few  other 
universities  can  offer." 

In  another  pilot  program,  12  members 
of  the  Board  of  Trustees  (many  of  whom  are 
WPI  graduates)  have  been  paired  with  a  like 
number  of  undergraduates,  with  whom  they 
have  been  exchanging  personal  and  profes- 
sional experiences.  The  Trustee/Student 
Mentor  Program  was  the  idea  of  trustee 
Leonard  E.  Redon  '73,  Rochester  site  ser- 
vices manager  for  Eastman  Kodak  Co. 

WPI  expanded  its  commitment  to  its 
international  students  last  year  by  creating 
the  Office  of  International  Students  and 
Scholars,  headed  by  Tom  Hartvig  Thom- 
sen,  associate  dean  of  student  life,  who  has 
been  WPI's  international  student  advisor  for 
many  years.  The  office,  located  in  the  new- 
International  House,  just  south  of  the  main 
campus,  is  responsible  for  helping  interna- 
tional undergraduate  and  graduate  students 


make  the  transition  from  their  home  coun- 
tries and  cultures  to  life  at  WPI. 

Also  located  in  International  House  is 
WPI's  new  English  as  a  Second  Language 
(ESL)  program.  Directed  by  Billy 
McGowan,  the  program  helps  foreign  stu- 
dents prepare  for  studies  in  science  or  engi- 
neering at  American  universities  through  a 


LEAP  participants  Jennifer  Shemowat  '00,  left,  and 
Nila  Almstrom  '00  with  Kevin  Donohue,  manager  of 
human  resources  for  Lockheed  Martin,  which  sup- 
ported the  program  with  a  gift  of  $5,000. 


five-week  summer  English  program  with  a 
focus  on  technical  terms  and  phrases.  In 
addition,  McGowan  serves  as  a  resource  to 
WPI's  international  students  and  offers  ESL 
instruction  to  the  University's  international 
students  and  teaching  assistants. 

"I  hope  International  House  will  help 
our  international  students  and  scholars  cre- 
ate a  sense  of  community,"  says  Thomsen. 
"I  envision  it  as  a  center  for  international 
education  that  will  draw  on  the  diverse 
resources  of  the  campus." 


At  International  House  are,  from  left, 
Tom  Thomsen,  Janice  Martin,  inter- 
national student  office  assistant,  and 
Billy  McGowan. 


14 


FALL  1997 


THE     YEAR     IN     REVIEW 


Commencement  Focuses  on 
Global  Opportunities 

WPI's  1 2*>t  H  Commencement  exercises  on 
May  24,  1997,  were  dedicated  to  the  theme 
"(  rlobal  Perspectives:  The  Key  to  the  New 
Millennium."  The  theme  reflected  the  need 
for  today's  technological  professionals  to 
gain  global  experience  and  an  appreciation 
for  other  cultures.  It  was  also  an  opportunity 
to  showcase  WPI's  recognized  leadership  in 
global  technological  education.  WPI  award- 
ed 810  degrees  during  the  ceremony:  580 
bachelor's  degrees,  218  master's  degrees  and 
12  Ph.D.s. 

The  speaker 
was  R.  Nicholas 
Burns,  then  the 
Department  of 
State's  principal 
assistant  secre- 
tary for  public- 
affairs  and  cur- 
rently U.S. 
ambassador  to 
Greece.  Burns 
noted  that  the 
Information  Age  and  the  "International 
Age"  are  changing  the  world  and  presenting 
today's  graduates  with  new  challenges  and 
opportunities.  "Like  it  or  not,"  he  said,  "our 
fate  is  to  be  a  nation  of  global  interests  and 
global  responsibilities." 

1  lonorarv  decrees  were  awarded  to 
Burns  and  three  international  business  lead- 
ers: Martin  G.  Bromberg  '51,  retired  chair- 
man of  Industria  e  Comercio  Brosol  Ltda., 
in  Brazil;  Douglas  R.  Starrett,  chairman 
and  CEO  of  L.S.  Starrett  Co.  in  Athol, 
Mass.,  and  Dennis  H.S.  Ting,  chairman  of 
Kader  Holdings  Co.  Ltd.  in  Hong  Kong. 


More  Highlights  of  the  Year  Past 

Sixteen  tenure-track  faculty  members 

joined  WPI  during  the  academic  year.  They 
include  provost  John  F.  Carney  HI,  who  is 
also  a  professor  of  civil  and  environmental 
engineering,  and  new  professors  in  the 
departments  of  Biology  and  Biotechnology, 
Chemical  Engineering,  Chemistry  and  Bio- 
chemistry, Civil  and  Environmental  Engi- 
neering, Computer  Science,  Electrical  and 
Computer  Engineering,  Management,  and 
Mechanical  Engineering. 

Formally  recognizing  a  collaboration 
that  has  existed  for  a  quarter  of  a  century, 
WPI  and  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  Center  established  a  joint  Ph.D. 
program  in  biomedical  engineering. 
Graduates  will  receive  degrees  from  WPI 
and  UMMC's  Graduate  School  of  Biomed- 
ical Sciences.  The  program  offers  shared 
courses  and  options  to  do  thesis  work  at 
either  institution.  "The  marriage  between 
WPI  and  the  UMass  Medical  Center  is  an 
important  step  forward  that  neither  institu- 
tion could  have  achieved  alone,"  said  Dr. 
Thomas  B.  Miller  Jr.,  dean  of  the  UMass 
Graduate  School  of  Biomedical  Sciences. 

WPI's  Career  Development  Center 
moved  into  new  quarters  in  the  lower  level 
of  the  Project  Center.  The  attractive  new 
home  for  the  University's  career  services, 
Cooperative  Education  Program  and  Major 
Selection  Program  includes  private  inter- 
view rooms,  a  computer  resource  room,  and 
a  lounge  for  recruiters. 

Leah  Vetter,  the  first  director  of  the 
Massachusetts  Academy  of  Mathematics 
and  Science  in  Worcester,  resigned  in  Jan- 
uary due  to  health  concerns.  James  Hamos, 
director  of  the  Office  of  Science  Education 


and  an  associate  professor  of  cell  biology  at 
the  UMass  Medical  Center,  y\  as  named  to 
succeed  Vetter.  Established  in  1992  by  the 
Massachusetts  legislature  and  located  in 
WPI's  ( Jordon  Library,  the  academy  is  a 
public  high  school  that  serves  1 1th  and  12th 
grade  students  who  have  exceptional  apti- 
tude for  mathematics  and  science. 

WTI's  second  all-campus  Project 
Presentation  Day  in  April  1997  brought 
dozens  of  corporate  executives  and  repre- 
sentatives of  other  organizations  and  agen- 
cies to  campus  to  hear  undergraduates  talk 
about  the  results  of  Major  Qualifying  Pro- 
jects. The  more  than  250  projects  presented 
were  the  culmination  of  work  in  12  academ- 
ic departments. 
A  highlight  of 
the  day  was  the 
annual  I  lull 
Memorial  Lec- 
ture, delivered 
by  Peter  Senge, 
director  of  the 
Center  for  Orga- 
nizational Learn- 
ing at  MIT's 
Sloan  School  of  Management  and  author  of 
The  Fifth  Discipline. 

A  new  online  resource  is  helping  WPI 
alumni  stay  in  touch  with  their  alma  mater 
and  with  each  other.  Called  the  Alumni 
Gateway,  the  Web  site  (www.wpi.edu/ 
alumni/gateway.html)  enables  alumni  to 
search  for  information  (including  e-mail 
addresses)  about  fellow  graduates,  post  class 
notes  for  The  Wire,  review  job  listings  from 
WPI's  Career  Development  Center,  create 
W^eb  pages,  and  participate  in  e-mail  discus- 
sion groups. 


Milton  P.  Higgins  helps  WPI  rededicate 
Boynton  Hall  after  renovations  in  1978. 


WPI  Loses  a  Dear  Friend 

Milton  P.  Higgins,  grandson  of  the  first 
superintendent  of  WTI's  Washburn  Shops, 
died  in  February  1997  at  the  age  of  93. 
A  member  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees 
for  31  years  (he  chaired  the  board  from  1971 
to  1978),  Higgins  was  chairman  of  the  WPI 
Centennial  Fund  (1965-68),  which  made 
possible  the  construction  of  Goddard  Hall, 
Gordon  Library  and  Harrington  Auditori- 
um. He  is  commemorated  on  campus  by 
the  Milton  P.  Higgins  Lecture  Hall  in  the 
Washburn  Shops  and  by  Higgins  Laborato- 
ries, WTI's  recently  renovated  mechanical 
engineering  building,  which  is  named  for 
the  Higgins  family. 

Members  of  the  Higgins  family  have 
been  closely  tied  to  the  affairs  of  WPI  since 


its  founding.  In  addition  to  Milton  Prince 
Higgins  (who  along  with  George  Ira  Alden, 
WPI's  first  professor  of  mechanical  engineer- 
ing, helped  found  Norton  Company),  they 
include  his  father,  Aldus  C.  Higgins,  Class  of 
1893,  a  trustee  for  nearly  three  decades  and 
a  president  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association, 
and  his  uncle,  John  Higgins,  Class  of  1896. 
A  1928  graduate  of  Harvard,  Milton  P. 
1  liggins  was  president  of  Norton  Company 
from  1946  to  1961  and  chairman  until  his 
retirement  in  1974.  He  was  a  benefactor 
and  board  member  of  numerous  Worcester 
institutions  and  organizations,  including  the 
Worcester  Art  Museum  and  Clark  Universi- 
ty. He  leaves  his  wife,  Alice  (Coonley),  three 
sons,  two  daughters,  and  11  grandchildren. 


WTI  Journal 


15 


UNIVERSITY     RELATIONS     HIGHLIGHTS 


Moving  Ahead  on  All  Fronts 

BY  JOHN  L.  HEYL,  VICE  PRESIDENT  FOR  UNIVERSITY  RELATIONS 


The  Office  of  University  Relations 
performs  a  multitude  of  services  for 
WPI,  but  they  boil  down  to  three 
basic  responsibilities:  raising  resources  to 
help  the  University  fulfill  its  mission  of  edu- 
cating tomorrow's  leaders;  building  the 
image  and  enhancing  the  reputation  of  the 
University;  and  helping  alumni  stay  in  touch 
with  and  connected  to  their  alma  mater. 
During  the  1996-97  fiscal  year,  the  office 
made  progress  on  all  of  three  fronts. 

In  resource  generation,  WPI  had  a  suc- 
cessful year,  recording  some  $7  million  in 
gifts  of  cash  and  gifts-in-kind  and  over  $4.2 
million  in  new  pledges  from  individuals, 
corporations,  foundations,  friends  and  oth- 
ers. Our  annual  giving  program  raised  more 
than  $1.45  million  in  funds  that  can  be 
immediately  spent  to  help  WPI  meet  the 
expenses  associated  with  providing  a  high- 
qualitv  education  to  its  students.  More  than 
$1.2  million  of  that  total  came  from  alumni 
(a  new  record),  which  was  part  of  the  $2.6 
million  (including  corporate  matching  gifts) 
raised  last  year  through  the  Alumni  Fund. 
The  Alumni  Fund  Board,  chaired  by  Anne 
M.  McPartland  Dodd  '75,  and  the  annual 
giving  staff  are  to  be  commended  for  mak- 
ing it  all  happen. 

Other  highlights  of  the  annual  giving 
program  include  the  $10,000  raised  by  the 
Class  of  1997  through  the  Senior  Class  Gift 
Program — the  first  such  program  organized 
in  several  years — and  the  significant 
progress  made  in  setting  up  the  Class  Agent 
Program.  That  program  is  aimed  at  increas- 
ing participation  in  the  Alumni  Fund  by 
having  alumni  receive  solicitations  from 
their  classmates. 

The  President's  Advisory  Council  cele- 
brated its  25th  anniversary  last  year.  The 
organization,  made  up  of  alumni,  parents 
and  friends  who  make  gifts  to  WPI  of 
$1,500  or  more,  was  founded  by  trustee 
emeritus  Leonard  H.  White  '41.  Henry  W. 
Nowick  '56  completed  a  long  and  produc- 
tive term  as  PAC  chairman  in  1996-97. 
Bringing  things  full  circle,  David  H.  White 
'75,  Len's  son,  has  become  the  new  chair- 
man. The  PAC  celebrated  its  anniversary  by 
hosting  a  number  of  Presidential  Forums — 
including  events  in  Newport  Beach  and 


Santa  Clara,  Calif. — focused  on  WPI's 
Global  Perspective  Program. 

An  expanded  marketing  program 
resulted  in  a  significant  increase  in  interest 
in  the  various  deferred  giving  vehicles  WPI 
makes  available  to  potential  donors.  These 
vehicles  enable  individuals  to  realize  a  finan- 
cial return  from  their  gifts  during  their  life- 
time. Over  the  course  of  the  fiscal  year, 
WPI  received  56  deferred  gifts  totaling 
more  than  $1.7  million.  Another  highlight 


"The  year  ahead  promises  to  be 
an  exciting  one.  Most  important, 

the  University  will  prepare  to 

formally  launch  its  next  major 

capital  campaign? 


of  the  year  was  recorded  by  the  Anniversary 
Gift  Program.  At  Reunion  in  June  1997,  the 
Class  of  1957  presented  President  Parrish 
with  a  check  for  $2.3  million,  an  exciting 
new  record  for  class  gifts.  The  Class  of  1947 
raised  more  than  $203,000. 

WPI's  efforts  to  raise  its  visibility  yield- 
ed a  great  deal  of  coverage  in  local,  regional, 
national  and  international  media  (including 
The  New  York  Times,  USA  Today,  the  Moscow 
Times,  die  Caribbean  Business  News  and  New 
Zealand  Television).  One  of  the  biggest 
splashes  was  made  by  three  students  who 
identified  a  security  hole  in  Microsoft 
Corp.'s  Internet  Explorer  Web  browser 
(see  "A  Shortcut  Into  Computer  History," 
Summer  1997  Journal).  Their  discovery 
resulted  in  worldwide  coverage. 

A  documentary  featuring  WPI's  state- 
of-the-art  fire  science  laboratory,  originally 
broadcast  in  July  1996,  proved  to  be  one  of 
the  most  watched  programs  in  the  history 
of  the  Discovery  Channel.  Check  your  local 
television  listings  this  winter  for  a  Discovery 
Channel  program  featuring  a  student 
project  that  resulted  in  a  high-tech  safety 
system  for  the  Providence  &  Worcester 
Railroad  and  a  two-hour  History  Channel 
documentary  on  fire  featuring  our  fire  pro- 
tection engineering  program. 


The  WPI  Alumni  Association,  in  an 
effort  to  assure  that  the  association  and 
WPI's  Alumni  Affairs  Office  will  be  pre- 
pared to  serve  the  needs  of  WPI  graduates 
well  into  the  next  century,  began  work  on  a 
new  five-year  master  plan.  Under  the  lead- 
ership of  Robert  E.  Maynard  Jr.  '63,  the 
association's  Executive  Committee  devel- 
oped a  draft  plan  and  appointed  four  task 
forces  to  address  issues  the  committee 
believes  are  of  particular  importance  to  the 
association's  future: 

*  Lifelong  Learning:  determining  ways  for 
WPI  to  provide  career  services  to  alumni 
and  to  help  them  continue  to  renew  their 
professional  skills. 

*  Communications:  exploring  ways  to 
enhance  communications  to  alumni 
through  publications,  class  boards  of  direc- 
tors and  the  online  Alumni  Gateway. 

*  Global  Programming:  re-examining  die 
concept  of  regional  alumni  clubs  and  looking 
for  opportunities  for  interaction  between 
WPI  and  its  alumni  on  a  global  scale. 

*  Organizational  Structure:  reassessing 
the  structure  of  the  Alumni  Association 
and  reviewing  and  updating  its  by-laws  to 
reflect  the  new  vision  and  initiatives  evolv- 
ing from  the  master  planning  process. 

The  year  ahead  promises  to  be  an  excit- 
ing one.  Most  important,  the  University 
will  prepare  to  formally  launch  its  next 
major  capital  campaign,  which  will  provide 
the  resourses  WPI  needs  to  implement  its 
emerging  strategic  vision  for  the  future. 

During  the  past  fiscal  year,  board 
vice  chairman  Ronald  L.  Zarrella  '71, 
vice  president  and  group  executive  for 
General  Motors  Corp.,  agreed  to  serve  as 
chairman  of  the  Campaign  for  WPI.  As 
chairman  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees, 
John  M.  Nelson,  chairman  of  The  TJX 
Companies  Inc.,  began  visiting  members 
of  the  board  to  request  their  participation 
in  the  drive. 

Work  also  continued  within  University 
Relations  on  putting  in  place  the  necessary 
volunteer  and  administrative  infrastructure 
for  a  major  fund-raising  effort.  If  all  goes  as 
planned,  the  campaign  will  begin  in  the  fall 
of  1998. 


16 


FALL  1 


"J\AC^i\ ,  -  MC 


X 


(li 


rrrr 
rrrr 
rrrr 


nancial   Statements   of  the  University   for   the   Fiscal   Year    1997    •    A   Supplement   to   the   WPI  Journal 


BftltMUIttXMMHlsailiMtt 


REPORT       OF       INDEPENDENT       ACCOUNTANTS 


The  Board  of  Trustees 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute: 

We  have  audited  the  accompanying  statements  of  financial  position  of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  ("WPI"  or  "the 
University")  as  of  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  and  the  related  statements  of  activities  and  cash  flows  for  the  years  then 
ended.  These  financial  statements  are  the  responsibility  of  the  University's  management.  Our  responsibility  is  to 
express  an  opinion  on  these  financial  statements  based  on  our  audits. 

We  conducted  our  audits  in  accordance  with  generally  accepted  auditing  standards.  Those  standards  require 
that  we  plan  and  perform  the  audit  to  obtain  reasonable  assurance  about  whether  the  financial  statements  are  free  of 
material  misstatement.  An  audit  includes  examining,  on  a  test  basis,  evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in 
the  financial  statements.  An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and  significant  estimates  made 
by  management,  as  well  as  evaluating  the  overall  financial  statement  presentation.  We  believe  that  our  audits  provide  a 
reasonable  basis  for  our  opinion. 

In  our  opinion,  the  financial  statements  referred  to  above  present  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  financial 
position  of  WPI  as  ot  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  the  changes  in  its  net  assets  and  cash  flows  for  the  years  then  ended 
in  conformity  with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles. 


^^^ ? '^^W^ 


Boston,  Massachusetts 
September  28,  1997 


AUDITED       REPORTS 


Statements  of  Financial  Position 

June  30,  1991  and  1996 


Assets 

Cash  and  cash  equivalents 

Accounts  receivable,  net 

Accrued  income  receivable 

Contributions  receivable,  net 

Inventories 

Deposits  with  trustees 

Prepaid  expenses  and  other  assets 

Notes  receivable 

Intermediate  and  long-term  investments 

Land,  buildings  and  equipment,  net 

Total  assets 

Liabilities  and  Net  Assets 

Accounts  payable  and  accrued  liabilities 
Deposits  and  deferred  revenues 
Short-term  portion  of  long-term  debt 
Annuities  payable 
Funds  held  for  others 
Refundable  government  loan  hinds 
Long-term  debt,  net 
Commitments  (Note  9) 

Total  liabilities 

Net  assets: 

Unrestricted 
Temporarily  restricted 
Permanently  restricted 

Total  net  assets 

Total  liabilities  and  net  assets 


1997 

1996 

$    14,473,586 

$      8,897,041 

3,665,575 

3,513,567 

348,076 

244,401 

2,193,239 

875,475 

12,256 

11,600 

21,989,745 

1,074,532 

995,349 

1,237,632 

14,692,079 

13,692,116 

221,046,818 

186,330,612 

63,750,281 

68,111,281 

$343,167,004 

$283,988,257 

6,838,137 

5,625,670 

2,926,937 

2,427,714 

1,695,200 

1,668,502 

2,058,419 

1,967,071 

329,210 

330,377 

8,982,466 

8,826,754 

64,687,592 

38,921,640 

87,517,961 

59,767,728 

147,793,560 

133,828,020 

57,017,940 

41,170,281 

50,837,543 

49,222,228 

255,649,043 

224,220,529 

$343,167,004 

$283,988,257 

The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  pan  of  the  financial  statements. 


F2 


Fall  1997 


mam 


Statement  of  Activities 

for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997 


Operating  revenues: 
Tuition  and  fees 

Less:  Unrestricted  student  aid 
Endowed  scholarships 
Externally  funded  student  aid 

Total  student  aid 

Net  tuition  and  fees 

( )ther  educational  operations 

Contributions 

Contract  and  exchange  transactions 

Investment  income  on  endowment 

Net  realized  and  unrealized  gains  on  endowment,  expended 

Other  investment  income 

Gain  on  sale  of  real  estate 

Sales  and  services  of  auxiliary  enterprises 

Other 

Total  revenues 

Net  assets  released  from  restriction 

Total  revenues  and  other  support 

Operating  expenses: 

Instruction  and  department  research 

Sponsored  research 

External  relations 

Institution  and  academic  support 

Student  services 

Operation  and  maintenance  of  plant 

Auxiliary  enterprises 

Total  operating  expenses 

Change  in  net  assets  from  operating  activities 
.  Nonoperating: 

Realized  and  unrealized  gains 
Loss  on  refinancing 
Contributions 

Change  in  net  assets  from  nonoperating  activities 

Total  change  in  net  assets 
Net  assets  beginning 

Net  assets  ending 


The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  the  financial  statement. 


Temporarily       Permanently 
Unrestricted         Restricted  Restricted 


Total 


$    49,183,646 

$    49,183,646 

14,020,126 

14,020,126 

1,932,388 

1,932,388 

2,657,544 

2,657,544 

18,610,058 

18,610,058 

30,573,588 

30,573,588 

8,746,894 

8,746,894 

4,607,189 

$    1,905,473 

6,512,662 

12,994,866 

12,994,866 

3,589,360 

$        21,089 

3,610,44'' 

2,184,240 

1,645,167 

50,770 

3,880,177 

1,845,133 

293,742 

37,864 

2,176,739 

407,240 

497,240 

8,052,947 

8,052,947 

739,976 

739,976 

73,831,433 

3,844,382 

109,723 

77,785,538 

2,507,185 

(2,507,185) 

— 

76,338,618 

1,337,197 

109,723 

77,785,538 

33,517,942 

33,517,942 

7,518,009 

7,518,009 

2,700,718 

2,700,718 

10,479,718 

10,479.7  IS 

4,474,395 

4,474,395 

12,167,421 

12,167,421 

6,138,289 

6,138,289 

76,996,492 

76,996,492 

(657,874) 

1,337,197 

109,723 

789,046 

17,828,141 

13,961,195 

309,577 

32,098,913 

(3,204,727) 

(3,204,727) 

549,267 

1,196,015 

1,745,282 

14,623,414 

14,510,462 

1,505,592 

30,639,468 

13,965,540 

15,847,659 

1,615,315 

31,428,514 

133,828,020 

41,170,281 

49,222,228 

224,220,529 

$147,793,560 

$57,017,940 

$50,837,543 

$255,649,043 

WPI  Journal 


F3 


Statement  of  Activities 

for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1996 


Operating  revenues: 
Tuition  and  fees 

Less:  Unrestricted  student  aid 
Endowed  scholarships 
Externally  funded  student  aid 

Total  student  aid 

Net  tuition  and  fees 

Other  educational  operations 

Contributions 

Contract  and  exchange  transactions 

Investment  income  on  endowment 

Net  realized  gains  on  endowment,  expended 

Other  investment  income 

Gain  on  sale  of  real  estate 

Sales  and  services  of  auxiliary  enterprises 

Other 

Total  revenues 

Net  assets  released  from  restriction 

Total  revenues  and  other  support 

Operating  expenses: 

Instruction  and  department  research 

Sponsored  research 

External  relations 

Institution  and  academic  support 

Student  services 

Operation  and  maintenance  ot  plant 

Auxiliary  enterprises 

Total  operating  expenses 

Change  in  net  assets  from  operating  activities 
Nonoperating: 

Realized  and  unrealized  gains 

Contributions 

Net  assets  released  from  restrictions 

Change  in  net  assets  from  nonoperating  activities 

Total  change  in  net  assets 
Net  assets  beginning 

Net  assets  ending 


Temporarily       Permanently 
Unrestricted         Restricted  Restricted 


1.044,932 


437,485 


81,948 


Total 


$   46,910,644 

$    46,910,644 

12,511,276 

12,511,276 

1,888,006 

1,888,006 

2,888,281 

2,888,281 

17,287,563 

17,287,563 

29,623,081 

29,623,081 

6,427,083 

6,427,083 

5,878,535 

$      601,906 

6,480,441 

11,530,280 

11,530,280 

4,498,177 

$       28,433 

4,526,610 

1,537,602 

1,131,052 

15,913 

2,684,567 

1,516,832 

150,008 

37,602 

1,704,442 

164,500 

164,500 

7,651,494 

7,651,494 

874,081 

874,081 

69,701,665 

1,882,966 

81,948 

71,666,579 

1,445,481 

(1,445,481) 

— 

71,147,146 

437,485 

81,948 

71,666,579 

30,269,303 

30,269,303 

6,328,533 

6,328,533 

2,014,806 

2,014,805 

9,938,004 

9,938,004 

4,152,898 

4.152,898 

10,728,737 

10,728,737 

6,669,936 

6,669,936 

70,102,214 

70,102,214 

1,564,365 


11,973,512 

557,574 
6,643,154 

9,022,382 
659,212 
(6,643,154) 

177,934 
2,668,147 

21,173,828 
3,884,933 

19,174,240 

3,038,440 

2,846,081 

25,058,761 

20,219,172 
113,608,848 

3,475,925 
37,694,356 

2,928,029 
46,294,199 

26,623,126 
197,597,403 

$133,828,020 

$41,170,281 

$49,222,228 

$224,220,529 

The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  the  financial  statements. 


F4 


Fall  1997 


Statements  of  Cash  Flows 

for  the  years  ended  June  10,  1997  and  1996 

1997 

1996 

Cash  flows  from  operating  activities: 

Change  in  net  assets 

$  31,428,514 

$26,623,126 

Adjustments  to  reconcile  change  in  net  assets  to  net  cash  provided  by  operating  activities: 

Depreciation  and  amortization 

6,558,383 

5,894,081 

Loss  on  refinancing 

3,204,727 

— 

Provision  for  bad  debts 

(109,156) 

53,91 5 

Contributions  other  than  cash 

(683,273) 

(2,278,933) 

Noncash  increase  in  annuities  payable 

(114,033) 

(80,489) 

Net  realized  and  unrealized  gain  on  investments 

(36,332,223) 

(23,967,099) 

Gain  on  sale  of  land 

(497,240) 

— 

Contributions  restricted  for  long-term  investments 

(1,196,015) 

(2,668,147) 

Investment  income  restricted  for  long-term  investments 

(58,953) 

(81,948) 

Changes  in  operating  assets  and  liabilities: 

(Increase)  decrease  in  accounts  receivable 

(150,978) 

45,317 

(Increase)  decrease  in  contributions  receivable 

(1,317,764) 

685,925 

Increase  in  notes  receivable 

(391,289) 

(39,750) 

Decrease  in  prepaids  and  other  assets 

123,018 

42,560 

Increase  (decrease)  in  funds  held  for  others 

(1,167) 

83,601 

Increase  in  accounts  payable  and  accrued  expenses 

1,212,467 

387,960 

Increase  in  annuities  payable 

91,348 

172,166 

Increase  (decrease)  in  deferred  revenue 

499,223 

(67,651) 

Net  cash  provided  by  (used  by)  operating  activities 

2,265,589 

4,804,632 

Cash  flows  from  investing  activities: 

Proceeds  from  sales  and  maturities  of  investments 

89,090,801 

73,443,683 

Purchases  of  investments 

(82,634,807) 

(77,409,949) 

Proceeds  from  sales  of  land 

497,240 

164,500 

Purchase  of  land,  building  and  equipment 

(6,240,054) 

(5,325,050) 

Disbursement  of  loans  to  students 

(2,376,177) 

(2,193,727) 

Repayments  of  loans  from  students 

1,771,954 

1,588,941 

Net  cash  provided  by  (used  by)  investing  activities 

108,957 

(9,731,602) 

Cash  flows  from  financing  activities: 

Receipts  of  refundable  government  loan  funds 

155,712 

178,597 

Contributions  restricted  for  long-term  investments 

1,196,015 

2,668,147 

Investment  income  restricted  for  long-term  investments 

58,953 

81,948 

Deposits  with  trustees 

(20,915,213) 

315,253 

Proceeds  from  issuance  of  debt,  net  of  discount 

61,741,874 

835,869 

Repayment  of  indebtedness 

(37,928,021) 

(1,224,472) 

Debt  issuance  costs  paid 

(1,107,321) 

— 

Net  cash  provided  by  financing  activities 

3,201,999 

2,855,342 

Net  increase  (decrease)  in  cash  and  cash  equivalents 

5,576,545 

(2,071,628) 

Cash  and  cash  equivalents,  beginning 

8,897,041 

10,968,669 

Cash  and  cash  equivalents,  ending 
Supplemental  cash  flow  information: 

$14,473,586 

$8,897,041 

Interest  paid 

$  2,536,402 

$2,555,972 

The  accompanying  notes  are  an  integral  part  of  the  financial  statements. 

WPI  Journal 


F5 


1.  Accounting 
Policies: 


NOTES       TO       FINANCIAL       STATEMENTS 


Basis  of  Presentation    In  fiscal  1996,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  ("WPI"  or  the  "University")  adopted  Statement  of 
Financial  Accounting  Standards  (SFAS)  No.  1 16,  "Accounting  for  Contributions  Received  and  Made,"  SFAS  No.  117, 
"Financial  Statements  of  Not-for-Profit  Organizations,"  and  SFAS  No.  124,  "Accounting  for  Certain  Investments  Held  by 
Not-for-Profit  Organizations."  SFAS  No.  1 16  requires  that  unconditional  promises  to  give  (pledges)  be  recorded  as  receiv- 
ables and  revenues  within  the  appropriate  net  asset  category.  SFAS  No.  117  establishes  standards  for  general-purpose 
external  financial  statements  of  not-for-profit  organizations,  including  a  statement  of  financial  position,  a  statement  of 
activities  and  a  statement  of  cash  flows.  SFAS  No.  124  establishes  standards  of  financial  accounting  and  reporting  for  certain 
investments  in  securities  and  establishes  disclosure  requirements  for  most  investments  held  by  not-for-profit  organizations. 
The  University  adopted  the  requirements  of  the  American  Institute  of  Certified  Public  Accountants  (AICPA)  Audit 
and  Accounting  Guide  (the  Guide),  "Not-for-Profit  Organizations,"  in  fiscal  1997.  Adoption  of  the  guide  resulted  in 
changes  to  the  financial  statement  presentation  of  die  following: 

•  Display  of  student  financial  aid  as  a  reduction  of  tuition  and  fees  revenue  rather  than  an  expenditure. 

•  Allocation  of  certain  expenses  (e.g.,  interest,  depreciation  and  operation  and  maintenance)  by  functional  category. 
These  financial  statements,  which  are  presented  on  the  accrual  basis  of  accounting,  have  been  prepared  to  focus  on 

WPI  as  a  whole  and  to  present  balances  and  transactions  according  to  the  existence  or  absence  of  donor-imposed 
restrictions.  This  has  been  accomplished  by  classification  of  fund  balances  and  transactions  into  three  classes  of  net 
assets  —  permanently  restricted,  temporarily  restricted  or  unrestricted. 

WPI  has  defined  its  primary  activities  as  operating  and  nonoperating.  Operating  activities  consist  primarily  of  activ- 
ities supporting  the  educational  mission  and  purpose  of  WPI.  Nonoperating  activities  consist  primarily  of  endowment 
gifts,  unspent  appreciation  on  endowment,  and  contributions  for  capital  use. 

Net  assets  and  revenues,  expenses,  gains  and  losses  were  classified  based  on  the  existence  or  absence  of  donor- 
imposed  restrictions.  Accordingly,  net  assets  and  changes  therein  are  classified  as  follows: 

Permanently  Restricted  Net  Assets    Net  assets  subject  to  donor-imposed  stipulations  that  they  be  maintained  perma- 
nently by  the  University.  Generally,  the  donors  of  these  assets  permit  the  institution  to  use  all  or  part  of  the  income 
earned  on  related  investments  for  general  or  specific  purposes. 

Temporarily  Restricted  Net  Assets    Net  assets  whose  use  is  restricted  by  state  law  or  subject  to  donor-imposed  stipu- 
lations that  may  or  will  be  met  by  actions  of  WPI  and/or  the  passage  of  time. 

Unrestricted  Net  Assets    Net  assets  not  subject  to  donor-imposed  stipulations. 

Revenues  are  reported  as  increases  in  unrestricted  net  assets  unless  use  of  the  related  assets  is  limited  by  donor-imposed 
restrictions.  Expenses  are  reported  as  decreases  in  unrestricted  net  assets.  Gains  and  losses  on  investments  and  other  assets 
or  liabilities  are  reported  as  increases  or  decrease  in  unrestricted  net  assets  unless  their  use  is  restricted  by  explicit  donor  stip- 
ulation or  by  law.  Expirations  of  temporary  restrictions  on  net  assets  (that  is,  the  donor-stipulated  purpose  has  been  fulfilled 
and/or  the  stipulated  time  period  has  elapsed)  are  reported  as  reclassifications  between  the  applicable  classes  of  net  assets. 

Permanently  restricted  net  assets  consist  of  the  following  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996: 


Endowment  funds  —  original  principal 
Split-interest  agreements  and  perpetual  trusts 
Student  loan  funds 

Temporarily  restricted  net  assets  consist  of  the  following  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996: 

Gifts  and  other  unexpended  revenues:  Instruction,  research  and  institutional  support 

Acquisition  of  building  and  equipment 


Endowment  funds  —  unspent  income  and  appreciation 
Split-interest  agreements  and  perpetual  trusts 


1997 

$45,022,083 
4,305,129 
1,510,331 


1996 

$44,117,581 
3,677,311 
1,427,336 


$50,837,543 

$49,222,228 

1997 

$    2,661,743 
2,126,591 

1996 

$    1,618,288 
1,789,783 

4,788,334 

46,645,637 
5,583,969 

3,408,071 

33,158,358 
4,603,852 

$57,017,940 

$41,170,281 

F6 


Years  ending  June  30 


Total  Operating  Revenues  (Net  of  Student  Aid) 


1988  dollars  (millions)         Current  dollars  (millions) 
1996  1997  1996  1997 


53.7 


56.7 


Total  Operating  Expenses 

52.5 

56.1 

70.1 

77.0 

Tuition  and  Fees  Revenues  (Net  of  Student  Aid) 

22.2 

22.3 

29.6 

30.6 

Fall  1997 


1997 

1996 

S  117,376,813 

$  100,190,366 

23,112,098 

26,618,897 

3,802,541 

3,649,808 

3,502,108 

3,368,949 

$147,793,560 

$133,828,020 

At  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  substantially  all  of  the  University's  unrestricted  net  assets  were  designated  for  specific 
purposes,  as  follows: 

Long-term  investment  (quasi-endowment  funds) 
Net  investment  in  plant  facilities 
Loans  to  students 
Undesignated 

Gifts  and  Pledges  Contributions,  including  unconditional  promises  to  give,  are  recognized  as  revenues  in  the  period 
received.  Conditional  promises  to  give  are  not  recognized  until  they  become  unconditional,  that  is  when  the  conditions 
on  which  they  depend  are  substantially  met.  The  net  assets  of  the  Alumni  Association  of  WPI,  a  separate  501(c)(3)  cor- 
poration, are  not  reflected  on  the  books  of  WPI.  Net  assets  were  approximately  $1.6M  and  $1.3M  at  June  30,  1997  and 
1996,  respectively.  Contributions  of  assets  other  than  cash  are  recorded  at  their  estimated  fair  value  at  the  date  received. 
Contributions  to  be  received  after  one  year  are  discounted  at  a  rate  of  6%.  Amortization  of  the  discount  is  recorded  as 
additional  contribution  revenue  in  accordance  with  donor-imposed  restrictions,  if  any,  on  the  contributions.  An  allow- 
ance for  uncollectible  contributions  receivable  is  provided  based  upon  managements  judgment  including  such  factors  as 
prior  collection  history,  type  of  contribution  and  nature  of  fund-raising  activity. 

Conditional  promises  to  give  not  reflected  in  the  financial  statements  are  approximately  $4,965,000  and  $3,958,000 
as  of  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  respectively,  and  consist  primarily  of  bequests. 

Contributions  with  Restrictions  Met  in  the  Same  Year  Contributions,  received  with  donor-imposed  restrictions  that 
are  met  in  the  same  year  as  received,  are  reported  as  revenues  of  the  unrestricted  net  asset  class. 

Release  of  Restrictions  on  Net  Assets  for  Acquisition  of  Land,  Building  and  Equipment  Contributions  of  land, 
building  and  equipment  without  donor  stipulations  concerning  the  use  of  such  long-lived  assets  are  reported  as  revenues 
of  the  unrestricted  net  asset  class.  Contributions  of  cash  and  other  assets  to  be  used  to  acquire  land,  building  and  equip- 
ment with  such  donor  stipulations  are  reported  as  revenues  of  the  temporarily  restricted  net  asset  class.  The  restrictions 
are  considered  to  be  released  at  the  time  of  acquisition  of  such  long-lived  assets. 

Cash  and  Cash  Equivalents  Cash  and  cash  equivalents  include  cash  on  hand  and  short-term  investments  with  maturi- 
ties of  90  days  or  less  when  purchased. 

Inventories  Inventories,  consisting  principally  of  alumni  souvenirs,  are  valued  at  the  lower  of  cost  (first-in,  first-out)  or  market 

Deferred  Financing  Costs  Deferred  financing  costs  relate  to  debt  issuance  costs  that  are  amortized  over  the  life  of  the 
bonds.  Total  amortization  expense  for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  was  $68,783  and  $69,852,  respectively. 

Sponsored  Research  Revenues  associated  with  research  and  other  contracts  and  grants  at  the  University  are  recog- 
nized as  related  costs  are  incurred.  Indirect  cost  recovery  by  the  University  is  based  on  a  predetermined  rate. 

Property,  Plant  and  Equipment  Land  and  land  improvements,  buildings  and  equipment  are  recorded  at  cost  at  the 
date  of  purchase.  When  assets  are  retired  or  otherwise  disposed  of,  the  cost  and  related  accumulated  depreciation  are 
removed  from  the  accounts,  and  any  resulting  gain  or  loss  is  reflected  in  operation  for  the  period.  The  cost  of  mainte- 
nance and  repairs  is  charged  to  income  as  incurred,  significant  renewals  and  betterments  are  capitalized. 

WPI  depreciates  capital  assets  based  upon  their  useful  lives.  The  policy  applies  to  assets  acquired  with  an  expected 
useful  life  of  three  years  or  more  and  a  cost  greater  than  $500.  Depreciation  is  calculated  using  the  straight-line  method, 
half-year  convention  over  the  following  estimated  useful  lives: 

Land  improvements  10  -  20  years 

Buildings  and  improvements    20-60  years 
Equipment  3-10  years 

Depreciation  expense  for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  was  $6,489,600  and  $5,824,229,  respectively. 


Years  ending  June  30 


1988  dollars  (millions)         Current  dollars  (millions) 
1996  1997  1996  1997 


Operations  and  Plant  Maintenance  Expenditures 


8.0 


8.9 


10.7 


12.2 


Instruction  and  Department  Research 


22.7 


24.4 


30.3 


33.5 


Tuition  and  Fees  as  a  Percent  of  Total  Operating  Revenues       1996/41  3%      1997/39.3% 


WPI  Journal 


"-~~"""-" 


MM^MMi 


F7 


2.  Amounts 
Receivable 


3.  Notes  Receivable 


Impairment  of  Long- Lived  Assets  During  fiscal  1997,  the  University  adopted  Financial  Accounting  Standards  Board 
(FASB)  No.  121,  "Accounting  for  the  Impairment  of  Long-Lived  Assets  to  Be  Disposed  Of."  The  University  periodical- 
ly reviews  the  value  of  its  property  in  relation  to  the  current  and  expected  operating  results  of  the  related  husiness  seg- 
ments in  order  to  assess  whether  there  has  been  a  permanent  impairment  of  their  carrying  values. 

Split-Interest  Agreements  and  Perpetual  Trusts  The  University  has  split-interest  agreements  with  donors  consisting 
primarily  of  charitable  gift  annuities,  pooled  income  funds  and  irrevocable  charitable  remainder  trusts.  Assets  held  in 
trust  are  separately  invested  and  are  included  in  intermediate  and  long-term  investments  on  the  statement  of  financial 
position.  Income  distributions  are  made  to  beneficiaries  in  accordance  with  the  trust  agreements. 

Contribution  revenues  for  charitable  gift  annuities  and  charitable  remainder  trusts  are  recognized  at  the  dates  the 
agreements  are  established,  after  recording  liabilities  for  the  present  value  of  the  estimated  future  payments  to  be  made 
to  the  respective  donors  and/or  beneficiaries.  For  pooled  income  funds,  contribution  revenue  is  recognized  upon  the 
establishment  of  the  agreements  as  the  fair  value  of  the  estimated  receipts,  discounted  for  the  estimated  time  period  to 
complete  the  agreements.  Such  contributions,  net  of  the  related  liabilities,  are  classified  as  increases  in  temporarily  or 
permanently  restricted  net  assets  based  on  donor-imposed  stipulations. 

The  present  value  of  payments  to  beneficiaries  ot  charitable  gift  annuities  and  charitable  remainder  trusts  and  the 
estimated  future  receipts  from  pooled  income  funds  are  calculated  using  discount  rates  from  6%  to  10%. 

Vested  Vacation  Accrual  WPI  accrues  a  liability  for  estimable  compensated  absences  (vested  vacation  for  hourly  and 
salaried  employees)  as  required  by  FASB  Statement  No.  43. 

Tax-Exempt  Status  The  University  is  exempt  from  federal  income  tax  under  Section  501(c)(3)  of  the  Internal  Revenue 
Code. 

Use  of  Estimates  in  the  Preparation  of  Financial  Statements  The  preparation  of  the  financial  statements  in  confor- 
mity with  generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management  to  make  estimates  and  assumptions  that  affect 
the  reported  amounts  of  assets  and  liabilities  and  disclosure  of  contingent  assets  and  liabilities  at  the  date  of  the  financial 
statements  and  the  reported  amounts  of  revenues  and  expenses  during  the  reporting  period.  Actual  results  could  differ 
from  those  estimates. 

Reclassification  Certain  1996  amounts  have  been  reclassified  to  conform  to  current  year  presentation. 


Accounts  receivable  consist  of  the  following  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996: 

Sponsored  research 
Other  receivables 

Less:  allowance  for  doubtful  accounts 
Total  accounts  receivable 

Notes  receivable  consist  of  the  following  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996: 

Student  loans 
Other 

Less:  allowance  for  doubtful  accounts 
Total  notes  receivable 


1997  1996 

$    1,976,983  $    2,078,695 

2,057,165  1,908,150 

4,034,148  3,986,845 

368,573  473,278 

$  3,665,575  $  3,513,567 


1997 

$14,203,511 
499,966 


1996 

$  13,599,288 
108,677 


14,703,477 
11,398 


13,707,965 
15,849 


$14,692,079       $13,692,116 


Notes  receivable  are  principally  amounts  due  from  students  under  federally  sponsored  loan  programs  that  are 
subject  to  significant  restrictions.  Accordingly,  it  is  not  practicable  to  determine  the  fair  value  of  such  amounts. 


Market  Value  of  Endowment 


Endowment  Total  Return 


Years  ending  June  30, 1988-97 


■Current  dollars  (millions) 


>  1 988  dollars  (millions)      Years  ending  June  30, 1 988-97 


■Percent 


— 

..•- 

»2UU 
160 

i 

120 

•   •  •  4 

89.1 
89.1 

97.2 
92.8 

98.2 
89.5 

105,9 
91.6 

114.9 
96.3 

126.2 
102.5 

126.5 
100.3 

149.2 
114.9 

172.5 
1293 

80 

204.5 
149.1 

'I 

8         'C 

9         '« 

O         '91          '92         '93         '94         '95         '96         '97 

'89         '90         '91  '92         '93         '94         '95 


F8 


Fall  1997 


■a 


^^^^^^■^^^^H 

4.  Contributions 

Unconditional  promises  at  June 

30,  1997  and  1996, 

are  expected  to 

be  realized  in  the 

following  periods: 

Receivable: 

In  one  year  or  less 
Between  one  and  five  years 
Greater  than  five  years 

1997 

$    1,068,670 

1,184,569 

340,000 

1996 

$      670,595 
604,880 

2,593,239 

1,275,475 

1  ess: 

Discount 

223,000 

81,690 

Allowance 

1  "7,000 
$  2,193,239 

318,310 
$     875,475 

5.  Property,  Plant 

Property,  plant  and  equipment 

consists  of  the  following  at  June  30, 

1997 

and  1996: 

and  Equipment 

Land  and  land  improvements 

Buildings 

Equipment 

Construction  in  progress 

Less:  accumulated  depreciation 

1997 

$    5,602,193 

79,685,627 

26,008,749 

1,430,237 

112,726,806 

48,976,525 

$63,750,281 

1996 

$  5,140,848 
78,837,572 
24,069,562 

3,067,982 

111,115,964 
43,004,683 

$68,111,281 

6.  Investments 

Investments  in  equities,  bonds, 

mutual  funds,  and  funds  held  in  trust  by  < 

jthers  have  been  reported  in  the  financial  state- 

ments  at  fair  value.  Investment 

in  the  realty  trust  is  reflected  at  cost 

.  Fair 

values  for  investments  held  through  limited 

partnerships  are  estimated  by  the  respective  externa 

1  investment  managers  if  fair  values  are  not  readily  ascertainable. 

During  the  year  the  University 

transferred  the  real 

estate  and  operations 

of  the  Salisb 

ury  Estates  from  the 

plant  fund 

to  the  endowment  at  a  net  book  value  of  approximately  $4.2  millioi 

t.  Cash  and  investments  at  June  30,  1997,  were  as 

follows  (comparative  totals  are 

included  for  1996): 

1997 

1996 

Split-Interest 

Cash  and  cash  equivalents 

Endowment 

$      7,122,759 

Agreements 

$      240,784 

Other 

$7,110,043 

Total 

$    14,473,586 

Total 

$      8,897,041 

Equities 

114,836,265 

5,043,165 

12,000 

119,891,430 

88,584,767 

Bonds 

15,582,785 

6,206,687 

100,000 

21,889,472 

19,812,051 

Mutual  funds: 

Equity  funds 

39,921,678 

39,921,678 

36,981,458 

Fixed  income  funds 

24,293,494 

228,278 

24,521,772 

23,689,709 

Realty  trust* 

2,682,000 

2,682,000 

3,000,000 

Oil  and  gas,  L.P* 

3,459,831 

3,459,831 

7,581,344 

Bioventures,  L.P.* 

608,505 

608,505 

1,075,114 

Other  partnerships* 

861,198 

861,198 

2,918,115 

- 

Real  estate* 

5,026,801 

5,026,801 

700,000 

Other* 

128,000 

128,000 

241,880 

Funds  held  in  trust  by  others  * 

2,056,131 

2,056,131 

1,746,174 

Total  intermediate  and 

long-term  investments 

207,272,557 

13,433,983 

340,278 

221,046,818 

186,330,612 

Total 

'Not  publicly  traded 

$214,395,316 

$13,674,767 

$7,450,321 

$235,520,404 

$195,227,653 

Sponsored  Program  Awards 


Years  ending  June  30, 1988-97 


■Current  dollars  (millions) 


Student  Aid 


•1988  dollars  (millions)       Years  ending  June  30, 1988-97 


■Current  dollars  (millions) 


•1988  dollars  (millions) 


— 

•  • 

1^- 



••.. 

9 
7 

••••••« 

•  •  •  a 

•  • 

»«••••• 

5 



"••••■ 

^ 

3 

— 

5.0 

4.1 

3.9 

5.5 

5.4 

5.7 

7.9 

8.9 

7.1 

7.2 

•  •  •  « 

5.0 

3.9 

3.6 

4.8 

4.5 

4.6 

6.3 

6.9 

5.3 

5.2 

'8 

8          '8 

9         'S 

O 

'91 

'92         'S 

3         '9 

4         '9 

5         '9 

6         '9 

lA 

20 
16 
12 

, 

8 

8.4 

9.1 

10.5 

12.2 

12.5 

14.4 

15.7 

17.1 

17.3 

18.6 

■  •  • « 

8.4 

8.7 

9.6 

10.6 

10.5 

11.7 

12.5 

13.2 

13.0 

13.6 

'88         '8 

9         '90         '9 

1          '9 

2         '9 

3         '9 

4          '9 

5         '9 

6         '9 

ZJ 

WPI  Journal 


■""»" — rmrnflrrfrnniaiMi 


F9 

wmmmtk 


Endowment  Income  and  Spending  At  June  30,  1997,  there  was  a  total  of  47,101,811  units,  each  having  a  market 
value  of  $4,345.  Of  the  total  units,  19,970,833  were  owned  by  endowment  funds  and  27,130,978  were  owned  by  inter- 
nally designated  funds. 

A  summary  of  the  market  value  per  unit  and  the  income  per  time-weighted  unit  for  the  pooled  investments  held  as 
of  June  30,  1997,  and  in  each  of  the  prior  four  years  is  as  follows: 

Income  Per  Time         Market  Value 
Weighted  Unit  Per  Unit 

1997  $0,079  $4,345 

1996  0.106  3.698 

1995  0.114  3.190 

1994  0.094  2.968 

1993  0.121  3.028 

The  University  observes  a  spending  rule  with  respect  to  unrestricted  investment  income  on  investments  of  the 
endowment.  In  accordance  with  that  spending  rule,  the  University  distributed  5.5%  of  the  average  unit  market  value  for 
the  previous  two  years  to  current  operations. 

The  spending  rule  distributions  for  fiscal  1997  and  1996,  respectively,  were  .169  and  .165  per  time  weighted  unit, 
which  were  comprised  of  .079  and  .106  of  income  per  time-weighted  unit  and  .090  and  .059  per  unit  distributed  from 
accumulated  capital  gains. 

Intermediate  and  long-term  investments  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  include  the  following  split-interest  agreements: 

1997  1996 

$    3,047,459       $    2,148,149 


Charitable  gift  annuities 
Charitable  remainder  trusts 
Pooled  income  funds 
Perpetual  trusts 


5,457,296 
2,873,097 
2,056,131 


4,416,008 
2,620,843 
1,746,174 


$13,433,983   $10,931,174 


7.  Long-Term  Debt: 


Investment  Return  The  investment  return  in  the  statement  of  activities  for  the  year  ended  June  30,  1997,  with 
comparative  totals  for  1996,  can  be  summarized  as  follows: 

1997 


1996 


Unrestricted 

Temporarily 
Restricted 

Permanendy 
Restricted 

Total 

Total 

Investment  income 

Net  realized  and  unrealized  gains 

$    3,589,360 
20,012,381 

$  15,606,362 

$    21,089 
360,347 

$    3,610,449 
35,979,090 

$4,526,610 
23,858,395 

Return  on  endowment 
Other  investment  income 

23,601,741 
1,845,133 

15,606,362 

293,742 

381,436 

37,864 

39,589,539 
2,176,739 

28,385,005 
1,704,442 

Total  return  on  investments 

Invesffnent  return  designated  for 
current  operations 

25,446,874 

7,618,733 

15,900,104 

1,938,909 

419,300 

109,723 

41,766,278 

9,667,365 

30,089,447 

8,915,619 

Investment  return  in  excess  of  amount 
designated  for  current  operation 

$17,828,141 

$13,961,195 

$309,577 

$32,098,913 

$21,173,828 

Investment  income  is  net  of  management  expenses  of  $1,653,855  and  $825,441  for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1997 
and  1996,  respectively. 


Long-term  debt  at  June  30,  1997,  amounted  to  $66,382,792.  Schedule  I  (next  page)  summarizes  the  components  of 
long-term  debt.  The  aggregate  amounts  of  principal  due  for  each  of  the  next  five  fiscal  years  are  as  follows: 


1998 
1999 
2000 
2001 

2002 


$1,695,200 
1,625,936 
1,839,251 
2,497,190 
5,585,299 


On  October  1,  1988,  WPI  deposited  with  Trustees  sufficient  funds  to  defease  HEFA  Series  B  Bonds  that  mature 
July  1,  2000.  The  amount  of  Series  B  principal  outstanding  at  June  30,  1997,  was  $3,140,000. 

On  February  15,  1997,  WPI  deposited  with  Trustees  sufficient  funds  to  prepay  in  full  HEFA  Series  C  and  Series  E 
Bonds  that  mature  September  1,  2000  and  September  1,  2017,  respectively.  WPI  issued  Massachusetts  Industrial 


F10 


m 


Fall  1997 
mm 


Finance  Agency  Series  I  bonds  of  $29,855,000  in  connection  with  the  refinancing.  (See  Schedule  1)  WPI  recognized  a 
loss  of  approximately  $3.2  million  on  the  refinancing.  However,  a  net  present  value  savings  will  be  realized  over  the  life 
of  the  bonds. 

During  fiscal  1997  WPI  prepaid  in  full  HEFA  Series  J 1  and  J2  loans.  WPI  issued  MIFA  Series  II  bonds  of 
$29,600,000,  which  included  proceeds  for  the  retirement  of  these  HEFA  loans. 

In  compliance  with  the  University's  various  bond  indentures,  deposits  with  Trustees  at  June  30,  1997  and  1996, 
include  investments  in  debt  service  and  reserve  funds  of  $21,989,745  and  $1,074,532,  respectively. 

The  bond  agreements  contain  restrictive  covenants  that,  among  other  restrictions,  include  the  maintenance  of 
certain  financial  ratios. 

The  University  entered  into  an  interest  rate  swap  agreement  with  an  investment  broker  in  November,  1991,  in 
order  to  reduce  the  cost  of  borrowing  on  its  HEFA  Series  C  and  E  bonds.  The  swap  had  a  notional  principal  amount  of 
$30  million  and  effectively  changed  the  interest  rate  exposure  on  the  Series  C  and  E  bonds  to  a  variable  rate  based  on  a 
specified  bond  index.  The  swap  agreement  terminated  in  December  1996.  The  University  recognized  income  from  the 
swap  of  approximately  $165,000  and  $316,000  during  fiscal  years  1997  and  1996,  respectively,  which  is  included  in  other 
investment  income  in  unrestricted  net  assets.  The  Series  C  and  E  bonds  were  refunded  in  February  1997. 

In  April  1994,  WPI  entered  into  a  second  six-year  swap  agreement  (the  "Agreement")  for  a  notional  amount  of  $30 
million  in  order  to  further  reduce  its  cost  of  borrowing.  The  Agreement  terminates  in  fiscal  2000  and  calls  for  the 
receipt  of  fixed  payments  by  the  counterparty  at  4.85%  of  the  notional  amount  in  exchange  for  variable  payments  on  an 
equivalent  amount  based  on  the  PSA  Municipal  Bond  Index.  In  March  1996  the  University  amended  the  Agreement  to 
receive  fixed  payments  from  the  counterparty  through  June  1999  of  $63,000  per  quarter.  The  University  is  exposed  to 
market  risk  from  June  1999  through  the  termination  of  the  Agreement.  In  fiscal  1997  and  1996  the  University  recog- 
nized income  of  approximately  $252,000  and  $123,000,  respectively,  from  the  Agreement,  which  is  included  in  other 
investment  income  in  unrestricted  net  assets.  The  fair  value  of  the  Agreement  at  June  30,  1997,  was  approximately 
$275,000,  which  represents  the  present  value  of  the  future  payments  to  be  received  by  the  University. 

The  University  is  exposed  to  credit  risk  in  the  event  of  nonperformance  by  the  counterparty.  The  counterparty  to  the 
Agreement  is  an  established  investment  bank  and  the  University  does  not  anticipate  nonperformance  by  the  counterparty. 


Note  7,  Schedule  I  Summary  of  Bonds,  Notes  and  Mortgages  Payable 

June  30,  1991 


Maturity 

Interest 

Original 

Purpose  and  Definition 

Date 

Rate  % 

Issue 

Bonds  Payable: 

Housing  and  Urban  Development: 

Series  A  -  April  1,  1969(1) 

10/1/97 

2.75 

$987,000 

Series  B  -  April  1,  1969(2) 

4/1/01 

3.375 

919,000 

Series  C  -  April  1,  1969(3) 

4/1/19 

3.00 

1,160,000 

Amount  Balance 

Due  Within  June  30, 

One  Year  1997 


$      47,000      $       47,000 
45,000  169,000 

25,000  727,000 


Massachusetts  Health  and  Educational 
Facilities  Authority: 
Series  A -July  1,1977(4)  7/1/03 

Massachusetts  Industrial  Finance  Agency: 

Series  I  (5)  9/1/17 

Series  II  (6)  9/1/27 

Mortgage  Payable: 

Ellsworth-Fuller  Student 
Residence  Center  (7)  12/31/03 

Unsecured  Notes: 

Fleet  Bank  -  9/28/93  9/1/01 

Total  bonds  and  mortgages  payable  (8) 


4.7-5.3 

5.11 
4.1  -5.5 


4,150,000 

29,745,814 
29,257,316 


7.25 


1,950,000 


Libor+.135     4,500,000 


117,000 

943,000 

190,000 

1,300,000 

1,060,000 

29,745,814 
29,257,316 

1,060,000 

59,003,130 

103,200 

824,162 

225,000 

4,312,500 

$1,695,200 

$66,382,792 

(1)  Collateralized  by  land,  building  and  equipment  known  as  Morgan  Hall  (carried  on  the  accounts  at  $809,293)  and  pledged  net  revenues, 
from  the  operations  of  the  dormitory  and  dining  hall  located  therein. 

(2)  Collateralized  by  land,  building  and  equipment  known  as  Daniels  Hall  (carried  on  the  accounts  at  $580,451)  and  pledged  net  revenues 
from  the  operations  of  the  dormitory  and  bookstore  located  therein. 

(3)  Collateralized  by  land,  building  and  equipment  known  as  Stoddard  Residence  Center  (carried  on  the  accounts  at  $770,750)  and  pledged 
net  revenues  from  the  operations  of  the  dormitory  and  health  center  located  therein. 


WPI  Journal 


Fll 


aaaa 


8.  Pension  Plans 


9.  Commitments 


10.  Contingencies 


1 1 .  Expenses  by 
Functional 
Category 


(4)  Pledged  as  collateral  are  $1,430,000  of  internally  designated  endowment  funds  equal  to  110%  of  the  principal  amount  of  the  bonds  out- 
standing, which  are  held  by  a  Trustee  in  the  Debt  Service  Reserve  Fund.  Various  academic  revenues  are  pledged  for  the  HEFA  Series  A 
bonds. 

(5)  The  bonds  are  not  secured  by  a  mortgage  lien  on  security  interest  in  any  real  property  a  revenues  of  the  University  and  represent  a  general 
obligation  of  the  University.  The  balance  at  June  30,  1997,  is  net  of  a  discount  of  $109,186. 

(6)  The  bonds  are  not  secured  by  a  mortgage  lien  on  security  interest  in  any  real  property  a  revenues  of  the  University  and  represent  a  general 
obligation  of  the  University.  The  balance  at  June  30,  1997,  is  net  of  a  discount  of  $342,684. 

(7)  Interest  is  at  7  1/4%,  of  which  3%  is  paid  by  WPI  and  the  balance  is  paid  by  the  U.S.  Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development. 

(8)  The  total  amount  outstanding  at  June  30,  1997,  approximates  fair  value  based  on  estimates  using  current  interest  rates  available  for  debt 
with  the  same  remaining  maturities. 

WPI  contributes  to  a  defined  contribution  plan  (TIAA-CREF)  for  academic  and  nonacademic  personnel.  Contributions 
to  TIAA-CREF  are  based  on  a  percentage  of  payroll.  The  University's  pension  costs  amounted  to  $2,506,185  and 
$2,342,933  for  the  fiscal  years  ended  in  1997  and  1996,  respectively. 

During  fiscal  year  1997,  WPI  entered  into  additional  commitments  with  several  limited  partnerships  to  invest 
$4,000,000,  bringing  the  cumulative  total  to  $8,000,000.  These  partnerships  invest  in  venture  capital.  As  of  June  30, 
1997,  WPI  has  funded  $3,330,000,  and  has  remaining  commitments  under  the  agreements  of  $4,670,000. 

The  University  has  guaranteed  a  $1,287,000  mortgage  debt  of  two  fraternities.  The  mortgages  are  collateralized  by 
real  property  owned  by  the  fraternities. 

WPI  is  obligated  under  noncancelable  operating  leases  for  various  facilities  and  equipment.  Assets  under  these  lease 
agreements  consist  of  office  furniture,  computer  equipment,  office  space  and  storage  facilities. 

Commitments  under  noncancelable  operating  leases  provide  for  minimum  rental  payments  for  the  next  five  fiscal 
years  of: 

1998  $  404,088 

1999  347,643 

2000  284,208 

2001  284,208 

2002  19,200 

$1,339,347 


Rental  expense  was  $335,909  and  $111,616  for  the  years  ended  June  30,  1997  and  1996,  respectively. 

WPI  has  pending  several  cases  that  have  arisen  in  the  normal  course  of  operations.  WPI  believes  that  the  outcome  of 
these  cases  will  have  no  material  adverse  effect  on  the  University's  financial  position. 

The  University's  sponsored  research  program  and  indirect  cost  recovery  are  subject  to  the  future  audits  by  the 
respective  sponsoring  federal  agency  as  provided  for  in  federal  sponsored  research  regulations.  Management  believes 
that  such  audits  will  not  have  a  materially  adverse  effect  on  WPI's  financial  position. 

Following  is  a  schedule  of  expenses  by  functional  category: 

Instruction  and  department  research 

Sponsored  research 

External  relations 

Institution  and  academic  support 

Student  services 

Auxiliary  enterprises 


1997 

1996 

$39,001,424 

$35,097,235 

8,256,526 

6,972,257 

2,700,718 

2,014,803 

14,275,419 

13,263,912 

4,474,395 

4,152,898 

8,288,010 

8,601,109 

$76,996,492 

$70,102,214 

Depreciation,  maintenance,  interest  and  other  expenses  have  been  functionalized.  Methods  in  allocating  these 
expenses  include  actual  expenses  incurred  and  percentage  of  square  footage  for  each  functional  area. 

External  relations  expenditures  include  $2,631,766  and  $1,922,169  of  fund-raising  expenses  for  the  years  ended 
June  30,  1997  and  1996,  respectively. 


F12 


Fall  1997 


W  P  I       T  R  U  S  T  I     E  S       AND       OFFICERS 


As  of  June  30,  1997 
Board  of  Trustees 


John  M.  Nelson, 

Chairman 
Chairman,  The  TJX  Companies  Inc. 

Peter  H.  Horstmann  '55, 

Vice  Chair/nan 
Director  of  Human  Resources 
Chronicle  Publishing  Company 

Ronald  L.  Zarrella  71, 

Vice  Chaii7//an 
Vice  President  and  Group  Executive, 
NAO  Vehicle  Sales,  Service  and 
Marketing 
General  Motors  Corporation 

George  T.  Abdow  '53 

Chairman  of  the  Board 
Abdow  Corporation 

Paul  A.  Allaire  '60 

Chairman  and  CEO,  Xerox  Corporation 

Paul  W  Bayliss  '60 

Independent  Consultants 

Robert  H.Beckett '57 

Retired 

Daniel  I.  Coifman  '67 

Manufacturer's  Representative 
Able  International  Corporation 

Thomas  A.  Corcoran 

President  and  COO 

Lockheed  Martin  Electronics  Sector 

Michael  A.  DiPierro  '68 

President,  Baystone  Corporation 

Warner  S.  Fletcher 
Fletcher,  Tilton  &  Whipple,  PC. 

Robert  A.  Foisie  '56 

John  C.S.  Fraj 

Deputy  Director,  Integrative  Biology  and 
Neuroscience,  National  Science 
Foundation 

deceased 


John  J.  Gabarro  '61 

Professor  and  Chair,  Organizational 

Behavior 

Harvard  Business  School 

Barbara  Bain  Gatison  '74 

President,  HebCom 

James  NT.  I  [eald  II 

Retired 

WilfredJ.Houde'59 

President,  W.J.  Houde  &  Associates 

M  Howard  Jacobson 

Senior  Advisor,  Bankers  Trust 

Charles  C.Johnston  '57 
Ventex  Technologies 

Paul  J.  Keating  JJ  '64 

President,  RoofBlok  Ltd. 

Gordon  B.  Lankton 

President,  Nypro  Inc. 

Peter  H.  Levine 

President  and  CEO 
Memorial  Health  Care  Inc. 

Claude  P.  Mancel71 

Vice  President  for  Research  and 
Development,  Europe,  Middle  East 
and  Africa 
N.V.  Procter  &  Gamble  Company 

F.  William  Marshall  Jr. 
President  and  CEO,  SIS  Bancorp 

Myles  McDonough 

Chairman,  Flexcon  Company  Inc. 

AlfredA.MoknariJr.  '63 

President  and  CEO,  Data  Translation  Inc. 

Philip  R.  Morgan 

President  and  CEO 

Morgan  Construction  Company 

Judith  Nitsch  75 

President,  Judith  Nitsch  Engineering  Inc. 


Officers  of  the  University 


Edward  A.  Parrish 
President 

Office  of  Academic 
Affairs 

John  F.  Carney  III 

Provost  and  Vice  President  for 
Academic  Affairs 

William  W.  Durgin 

Associate  Provost  for  Academic  Affairs 

Lance  E.  Schachterle 

Assistant  Provost  for  Academic  Affairs 

Office  of  Business 
Affairs 

Stephen  J.  Hebert '66 

Vice  President  for  Administration, 
Treasurer,  Secretary  of  the  Corporation 


Frank  P.  Conti 

Controller  and  Assistant  Secretary 

Sylvia  Cucinotta 
Associate  Treasurer 

John  E.  Miller 
Associate  Vice  President  for 
Business  Affairs  and  Director  of 
Physical  Plant 

Division  of  Student 
Affairs 

Bernard  H.  Brown 

Vice  President  for  Student  Affairs 

Janet  Begin  Richardson 

Assistant  Vice  President  for  Student 
Affairs  and  Dean  of  Student  Life 


David  P.  Norton  '62 

President,  Renaissance  Solutions  Inc. 

Edward  A.  Parrish 
President,  WPI 

Windle  B.  Priem  '59 

President,  North  America 
Korn/Ferry  International 

Leonard  E.  Redon  73 

Rochester  Site  Services  Manager 
Eastman  Kodak  Company 

Carol  L.  Reinisch 

Chair,  Department  of  Environmental 

and  Population  Health 

Tufts  University  School  of  Veterinary 

Medicine 

Stephen  F.  Rubin  74 
President  and  CEO,  Intellution  Inc. 

Frederick  D.  Rucker  '81 

Senior  Vice  President,  Corporate 
Strategy,  Bell  Canada 

John  J.  Shields '69 

President  and  CEO 
King's  Point  Holding  Inc. 

II.  Kerner  Smith 

Chairman,  President  and  CEO 
Stone  &  Webster  Inc. 

Claude-Alain  Tardy 

Saint-Gobain 

Donald  Taylor  '49 

Sullivan  Associates 

Emeriti  Members 

Walter  J.  Bank  '46 

Retired 

John  Lott  Brown  '46 

President  Emeritus 
University  of  South  Florida 


Office  of  University 
Relations 

John  L.  Heyl 

Vice  President  for  University  Relations 

Legal  Counsel 

Fletcher,  Tilton  &  Whipple  P.C. 

Academic  Department 
Heads 

Kenneth  A.  Stafford 
Aerospace  Studies 

Ronald  D.  Cheetham 
Biology  and  Biotechnology 

Robert  A.  Peura 

Biomedical  Engineering 

Albert  Saccojr. 
Chemical  Engineering 


Robert  Cushman 

Chairman  of  the  Board,  Retired 
Norton  Company 

C.  Marshall  Dann '35 

Dann,  Dorfman,  Herrell  and  Skillman 

Richard  A.  Davis  '53 

J&R  Associates 

William  A.  Delphos  74 

President,  Delphos  International 

Albert  M.  Demont  '31 

Retired 

Wlliam  P.  Densmore  '45 

Retired 

Irving  James  Donahue  Jr.  '44 

Chairman,  Donahue  Industries  Inc. 

Raymond  J.  Forkey  '40 

President,  Retired 

Coppus  Engineering  Corporation 

I  toward  G.  Freeman  '40 

Founder  and  Chairman,  Retired 
Neles-Jamesbury  Corporation 

Anson  C.  Fyler  '45 

Management  Consultant 

Caleb  D.  Hammond  '37 
Chairman  Emeritus,  Hammond  Inc. 

Wdliam  E.  Hanson  '32 

Retired 

Francis  S.  Harvey  '37 

President  and  Treasurer 
Harvey  &  Tracy  Associates  Inc. 

Milton  P.  Higgins* 

John  E.  Hossack  '46 

Retired 

Chandler  W.Jones  '26 

Retired 

Carl  W  Lewin  '39 

Retired 


James  P.  Dittami 

Chemistry  and  Biochemistry 

Frederick  L.  Hart 

Civil  and  Environmental  Engineering 

Robert  E.  Kmicki 

Computer  Science 

Hossein  Hakim 

Interdisciplinary  and  Global  Studies 
Division 

John  A.  On- 
Electrical  and  Computer  Engineering 

David  A.  Lucht 

Center  for  Firesafety  Studies 

Lee  Fontanella 

Humanities  and  Arts 

McRae  C.  Banks  II 

Management 


C.John  Lindegrenjr.  '39 

Chairman  of  the  Board,  Lindco  Inc. 

Arthur  J.  LoVetere  '60 

Chairman,  Reflexite  Corporation 

John  C.  Metzgerjr.  '46 

Group  Vice  President,  Retired 
E.I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.  Inc. 

Charles  R.  Michel '37 

Retired 

John  F.  O'Brien 

President  and  CEO,  Allmerica  Financial 

Stanley  C.  Olsen 

President,  Gulf  to  Lakes  Corporation 

Milliard  W  Paige  '41 

Raymond  J.  Perreault  '38 

Retired 

Donald  E.  Ross  '54 

Retired,  MPB  Corporation 

Miriam  B.  Rutman 

President,  The  Herald  Press 

George  E.  Saltus  '53 

Retired,  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  Inc. 

Gordon  H.  Sigmanjr.  '59 

Retired 

Dorothy  M.  Simon 

S.  Merrill  Skeist  '40 

President,  Spellman  High  Voltage 
Electronics  Corporation 

Robert  C.  Stempel  '55 
Energy  Conversion  Devices 

Howard  C.  Warren  '42 

Retired 

RobertJ.  Whipple 

Leonard  H.  White  '41 
Chairman  and  Treasurer 
R.H.  White  Construction  Co. 


Gordon  C.  Branche 

Mathematical  Sciences 

Mohammad  X.  Noori 

Mechanical  Engineering 

Stephen  H.  Tupper 

Military  Science 

Raymond  R.  Gilbert 
Physical  Education  and  Athletics 

Thomas  H.  Keil 
Physics 

Douglas  W  Woods 

Social  Science  and  Policy  Studies 


"^^*««" 


K&S 


: 


FINANCIAL     SUMMARY     AND     HIGHLIGHTS 


BY  STEPHEN  J.  HEBERT  '66 

Vice  President  for  Administration,  Treasurer  and  Secretary  of  the  Corporation 


On  June  30,  1997,  WPI  marked  the  conclusion  of  a  highly 
successful  fiscal  year,  as  the  operating  budget  finished  with 
a  surplus  of  approximately  $14,000.  It  was  a  year  that  saw 
WPI  with  a  full  enrollment,  with  an  expanding  reputation,  and  with 
a  caring  group  of  faculty  and  staff  who  worked  diligently  to  enhance 
the  overall  quality  of  the  University's  educational  experience. 

The  total  revenue  for  the  fiscal  year  was  $75,064,000.  When 
financial  aid  is  discounted  from  that  figure,  the  net  revenue  for  the 
year  was  $61,366,000.  There  was  less  dependence  upon  tuition  as  a 
source  of  revenue,  which  continues  a  positive  pattern  that  has  extend- 
ed over  the  last  three  years  (actual  dependence  dropped  from  41.6 
percent  in  FY  94  to  39.3  percent  in  FY  97).  WPI's  Waltham  Campus, 
in  its  first  year  of  operation,  turned  in  a  net  contribution  ol  $2 18,000. 

As  the  University  entered  the  early  stages  of  a  comprehensive 
capital  campaign,  gift  income  increased  slightly  from  the  previous 
year  as  the  base  was  set  for  the  development  of  the  campaign  nucleus 
fund.  The  return  on  endowment  from  the  spending  rule  of  5.5  per- 
cent produced  a  net  change  in  revenue  for  the  year  of  $4,675,000. 

While  it's  not  reflected  in  the  numbers  for  FY  97,  there  was  a 
positive  turn  of  events  in  May  1997,  as  73  percent  of  the  Class  of 
2001,  which  matriculated  in  August  1997,  required  need-based 
financial  aid,  down  from  77.8  percent,  which  has  been  the  case  for 
several  years.  The  average  award  was  actually  down  from  the  previ- 
ous year,  as  well.  While  one  year  does  not  make  a  trend,  this  change 
in  financial  aid  is  viewed  as  quite  positive,  for  as  was  noted  in  last 
year's  annual  report,  the  continued  growth  of  financial  aid,  which 
represents  approximately  30  percent  of  tuition  income,  has  been  a 
major  source  of  concern  to  universities  such  as  WPI. 

The  investment  performance  for  the  year  was  outstanding  and 
generally  reflected  the  overall  growdi  in  equity  markets  throughout 
the  world.  At  year  end,  the  endowment  portfolio  was  slightly  above 
its  targeted  asset  allocation  of  70  percent  in  equities,  which  was 
reflected  in  the  total  return  net  of  fees  for  the  year — 22.9  percent. 
This  places  WPI  in  the  top  quartile  of  colleges  and  universities  as 
measured  by  the  National  Association  of  College  and  University 
Business  Officers.  The  Investment  Committee  of  the  Board  of 
Trustees  is  to  be  commended  for  its  oversight  and  management 
of  this  portfolio,  which  in  many  ways  is  the  flywheel  that  drives  the 
University  from  year  to  year  and  allows  it  to  offer  innovative  pro- 
gramming and  to  undertake  forward-looking  initiatives. 

During  the  course  of  the  year,  WPI  refinanced  approximately 
$30  million  of  debt  at  an  average  all-in  rate  of  5.46  percent.  The  Uni- 
versity also  acquired  $29.6  million  of  new  debt  late  in  June,  again  at  a 
competitive  rate  of  5.5  percent.  The  proceeds  from  this  new  issue  will 
be  used  to  fund  the  renovations  of  three  residence  centers — Daniels 
Hall,  the  Ellsworth/Fuller  Residence  Complex  and  Morgan  Hall- 
over  a  three-year  period.  It  will  also  provide  approximately  $5.6  mil- 
lion for  the  planned  construction  of  a  campus  center,  $1.9  million  for 
parking  expansion,  $2  million  for  computer  system  enhancement, 
$2.5  million  for  the  acquisition  and  renovation  of  a  major  property 
adjacent  to  the  campus,  and  approximately  $7.4  million  for  the  retire- 
ment of  an  additional  segment  of  debt  that  was  not  refinanced  in 
February.  The  positive  ratings  of  WPI  by  Moody's  and  Standard  & 
Poor's  (A2  and  A+,  respectively)  speak  well  of  the  strength  of  the 
financial  base  of  the  University. 

All  in  all,  it  was  a  strong  year  for  WPI,  financiallv. 


YEARS  ENDI  DjUNE  30,  1997  AND  1996 


1.  General  Operating 

Funds     Crhousiiiids  of  Dollars) 


1997 


1996 


Percent 
Change 


Tuition,  fees  and  other 
educational  revenues 

Student  financial  aid 

Gifts  and  bequests  received 

Revenues  from  sponsored 
research  programs 

Total  staff  benefit  expenses, 
before  allocation 

2.  Endowment  and  Similar 
Funds     (Thousands  of  Dollars) 


$57,931  $53,338       +8.6% 

18,610  17,288       +7.6 

8,258  10,131  -18.5 

7,518  6,329  +18.8 

7,502  7,067       +6.2 


Percent 
1997  1996        Change 


Beginning  asset  market  values        $177,406     $154,734     +16.4% 

plus: 

Investment  results 

Income  (interest  and  dividends) 

Realized  and  unrealized  gains 

Total  investment  results 

less: 

Used  in  support  of  college 

Net  reinvested  in  endowment 

plus: 

Additions  to  endowments 

Ending  asset  market  value 


$3,610 

$5,086 

34,910 

20,716 

$38,520 

$25,802 

+49.3 

(6,818) 

(5,739) 

+  18.8 

31,702 

20,063 

+58.0 

5,287 

2,609 

+  102.6 

$214,395     $177,406     +20.9 


Five-Year 
Summary  of 
Total  Return  Data 


'97 


'96 


'95 


'94        '93 


WPI  Total  Return 
WPI  Policy  Index 
S&P  500 

LB  G/C  Bond  Index 
CPI  Index 


22.9%  18.5%  16.9%     4.0%  11.9% 

20.7  16.9  18.5         3.2  13.5 

34.8  26.1  26.1  1.4  13.6 

7.8  4.7  12.8  -1.5  13.2 

2.9  2.8         3.1         2.5         3.0 


Copies  of  the  complete  audited  financial  reports  for  WPI  for  Fiscal 
Year  1997  can  be  obtained  by  writing  to: 

Office  of  Business  Affairs 

WPI 

100  Institute  Road 

Worcester,  MA  01609-2280 


""■"■"""""■"-^       ■  ■-•■■ 


Mrearejj.muiMiuM 


1  II 


s 

1  (VJB 

.4            •    ■ 

... 

.- 

».  » 

1 

v        1 

fat 

• 

4 

• 

umiMiSiaig&i 


fflH 


.■■■  .:■■::'.•         .>v  -■■>,■;.;:■■.  ■■■:■..    ■■■.-■ .        ■-::■■■  ■ 


ster  Problem  Solver    a  Toy  Story 


if 

w 

Jk* 

•^L^M 

SPRING       1998 

p#:vv:-A' 

H£r 

\ 


PROFILES  IN  GIVING 


Marcia  & 

jjarm    Jenneu  Jr.  '$6 

Home:  Wakefield,  R.I. 

Planned  Gift:  Deferred  Gift  Annuity 


—  On  trie  Joys  of  Retirement  — 

"I  retired  in  1995  after  38  years  in  the  plastics  industry,"  Harry  says.  "Marcia  and  I  moved  to  Wakefield,  where 
her  family  had  summered  since  1941.  I  stay  active  as  a  manufacturer's  representative  in  flexible  packaging,  and 
we  enjoy  fishing,  swimming,  tennis,  golf,  traveling,  and  spending  time  with  our  children  and  five  grandchildren. 
I  thoroughly  enjoyed  my  past  WPI  involvement  with  regional  clubs,  as  president  of  the  Alumni  Association,  and 
as  chair  of  our  class's  successful  40th  Anniversary  Gift  campaign.  Moving  closer  to  WPI  has  given  me  the  oppor- 
tunity to  once  again  serve  my  alma  mater  as  chair  of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board.  As  a  second-generation  graduate, 
WPI  has  always  been  part  of  my  life.  It's  also  been  one  of  Marcia's  and  my  greatest  pleasures  over  the  years." 

—  On  I  lanned  (jiving  at  Wl  I  — 

"When  my  class  celebrated  its  40th,  1  wanted  to  make  a  special  gift.  I  was  intrigued  by  gift  annuities.  They  provide 
a  predictable  and  secure  lifetime  income  stream,  they're  simple  to  establish,  and  you  can  even  defer  the  payments 
until  after  retirement.  We  used  appreciated  stock  and  received  a  sizable  tax  deduction  immediately.  Next  year 
we'll  begin  receiving  quarterly  payments  that  far  exceed  the  stock's  dividends.  Making  a  significant  gift  to  WPI 
seemed  a  natural  outgrowth  of  my  affection  for  my  alma  mater,  and  of  the  example  my  father  set  as  a  lifelong 
contributor  to  the  Alumni  Fund.  We  look  forward  to  the  continued  joy  that  supporting  WPI  will  bring." 

If  you  would  like  to  join  Marcia  and  Harry  Tenney  and  222  others  who  are  enjoying  the  many  benefits  of  planned 
giving  at  WPI,  please  contact  Liz  Siladi,  Director  of  Planned  Giving,  at  1-888- WPI  GIFT. 


VOLUME  C,  NO.  4,  SPRING  1WH 


WPI  JOURNAL 


CONTENTS 


People  of  the  Century  by  Michael  W.  Dorsey 

Since  its  first  issue  went  to  press  a  century  ago,  the  WPI  Journal  has 

chronicled  the  lives  and  careers  of  thousands  of  alumni.  Together,  their 

stories  comprise  a  panorama  as  rich  and  exciting  as  the  20th  century  itselt. 

To  ohserve  its  100th  birthday,  the  Journal  retells  100  of  those  stories. 

Page  5 

No  Big  Deal  by  Joan  Killough-Miller 

For  Maureen  McCaffrey,  helping  manage  one  of  the  largest  construction 

projects  in  the  world  is  just  another  day  on  the  joh. 

Page  20 

Classic  D.T.  by  Elizabeth  Walker 

There  are  nearly  as  many  adjectives  to  describe  the  late  David  Todd  as 

there  are  friends,  colleagues  and  students  whose  lives  he  touched. 

Page  23 

Seeing  the  Possibilities  h  Michael  W.  Dorsey 

The  16th  installment  of  "The  Entrepreneurial  Spirit"  looks  at  William 

Price,  who  has  focused  his  inventive  genius  on  a  long  list  of  problems  in 

fields  as  diverse  as  cosmetics  packaging  and  airplane  manufacturing. 

Page  27 

DEPARTMENTS 


. 

■ 

' 

■1 

**■  fee- 

•""^■J 

»;/• 

Wk, .    \\alwl  *» 

'  ^Hhr 

a 


Advance  Word  A  Daunting  Task,  By  Michael  W  Dorsey.  Page  2 

Explorations  How  Antiestrogens  Save  Bones,  Building  A  Wildlife  Database,  Looking  Beneath 

the  Surface  of  Art,  Solving  the  Mystery  of  a  Statue,  By  Bonnie  Gelbwasser.  Page  3 

Final  Word  Building  Dreams  at  The  Construction  Site,  By  Joan  Killough-Miller.  Page  32 

Front  Cover.  Completed  in  1913,  Grand  Central  Terminal  in  New  York  quickly  became  the 

crossroads  of  America.  Today,  this  monumental  transportation  center  symbolizes  the  incredible 

scientific,  technological,  social  and  political  changes  that  have  transformed  our  world  over  the  past 

century.  Hamilton  Chapman,  Class  of  1886,  a  consulting  engineer  for  Grand  Central,  was  one  of  the 

thousands  of  WPI  graduates  who  helped  drive  that  change.  He  is  among  the  100  "people  of  the 

century"  profiled  in  this  special  centennial  issue  of  the  Journal.  Story  on  page  5.  Photo  copyright 

Library  of  Congress/Corbis.  Back  Cover:  A  student  enjoys  a  break  from  the  end-of-term  frenzy  in 

Reunion  Plaza.  Photo  by  Lionel  Delevingne. 

Staff  of  the  H  PI  Journal:  Editor,  Michael  W.  Dorsey  •  Art  Director/Designer,  Michael  J.  Sherman  •  Contrihuting  Writers,  Bonnie  Gelhwasser,  Joan  Killough-Miller  and  Ruth  Trask 
Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Robert  C.  Labonte  '54,  chairman.  Kimberly  V  (Lemoi)  Bowers  '90,  James  S.  Demetry  '58,  William  J.  Firla  Jr.  '60,  Joel  P.  Greene  '69, 
William  R.  Grogan  '46,  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.  '45,  Harlan  B.  Williams  '50  •  The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  published  quarterly  for  the  WPI  AJumni  Association  by  the  Office 
of  University  Relations.  Periodicals  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Mass.,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Printed  by  The  Lane  Press,  Burlington,  Vt  Printed  in  the  U.S.A. 

Diverse  views  presented  in  this  magazine  do  not  necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or  official  WPI  policies.  We  welcome  letters  to  the  editor.  Address  correspondence  to  the  Editor, 

WPI  Journal.  WPI.  100  Institute  Road.  Worcester.  M-i  01609-2280  '  Phone:  (508)  831-5609.  Fax:  (508)  831-6004  '  Electnmn  Mail,  wpi-journal@wpi.edu  •  WorldWide  Web: 

http://v.yiriv.wpi.edu/+Jounial/ •  Postmaster.  Ifundeliverable,  please  send  Form  3579  to  the  address  above.  Do  not  return  publication.  Entire  contents  ©  1998,  1 1  orcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 


hnmii^fiifrJT»*»n*»*1 


Remembering  Sam 
Mencow's  Quiet  Dignity 

TO  THE  EDITOR: 

I  was  frozen  in  my  tracks  when  I  opened 
the  Journal  to  see  the  picture  of  Sam 
Mencow  '37  ("A  Man  for  All  Seasons," 
Summer  1997).  It  was  my  honor  and  plea- 
sure to  work  with  him  over  several  years 
on  various  committees  at  WPI.  I  recall 
many  long  evenings  and  Saturday  morn- 
ings made  less  difficult  because  of  his  pres- 
ence. He  was  always  a  wealth  of  infor- 
mation. But  more  than  that,  he  personified 
the  quiet  dignity  of  so  many  of  the  older 
alums  and  the  devotion  they  have  to  the 
University.  In  whatever  capacity  I  am  priv- 
ileged to  serve  WPI  in  the  future,  it  will 
always  be  a  little  sadder  because  I  will  not 
be  seeing  Sam. 

howard  h.  levine  72  ph.d. 
Stamford,  Conn. 

Corrections 

//;  a  caption  for  the  photo  on 
page  20  of  the  Summer 
1997  issue,  we  incorrectly 
identified  the  alumnus 
shown  here.  He  is  Greg 
Scott  '77,  president  of  Scott 
Software  Syste??is  Inc. 

A  photograph  on  page  32  of  the  same  issue  was 
attributed  to  the  wrong  photographer.  It  was 
taken  by  Alison  Hampton,  graphic  arts  special- 
ist at  the  New  England  Regional  Primate 
Research  Center. 


ADVANCE     WORD 


A  Daunting  Task 


\ 


he  handwritten  message  was  them.  Would  they  be  drawn  into  an  essay 

meant  as  a  friendly  reminder,  on  WPI's  history,  a  subject  tackled  so  bril- 

-JL_      but  it  struck  a  note  of  panic  in  liantly  in  Mildred  Tymeson's  Two  Towers 

me.  "The  Journal's  coming  up  on  its  100th  and  in  Seventy  Years  of  the  Worcester  Poly- 

anniversary,"  it  said.  "That's  an  opportu-  technic  Institute,  written  by  beloved  Journal 

nity  few  editors  will  ever  have."  editor  Herbert  Taylor  '12?  Would  they 

An  opportunity,  yes,  but  a  ponderous  care  to  peruse  a  chronicle  of  the  Journal 

one.  As  John  D.  Rockefeller  once  said,  itself,  learning  about  its  various  incarna- 

"every  opportunity  implies  an  obligation."  tions  and  about  the  people  behind  its 

As  editor  of  the  WPI  Journal  for  the  past  uncounted  words  and  pictures? 

decade,  I've  done  my  best  to  fulfill  my  The  answer  to  both  questions  is  prob- 

obligation  to  tell  readers  what  they  want  ably  "yes."  And  yet,  I  kept  returning  to 


to  know  about  WPI  and 
its  people.  But  doing  jus- 
tice to  a  century's  worth 
of  reporting  about  the 
University  by  dozens  of 
dedicated  editors,  writ- 
ers, photographers  and 
artists?  That  would  be  a 
daunting  task,  if  not  an 
impossible  one. 

At  the  kind  sugges- 
tion of  the  late  Sam 
Mencow  '37,  then  chair- 
man of  the  Alumni  Pub- 
lications Committee,  I  organized  a  com 


To  select  from 
among  the  thou- 
sands of  individuals 
the  Journal  has 
covered,  I  had  to 
make  some  tough 
choices. 


what  the  Journal  has 
always  done  best:  telling 
interesting  stories  about 
people.  In  every  survey 
the  magazine  has  ever 
done,  readers  have  said 
what  they  like  most  is 
reading  about  other 
alumni.  With  that  as  a 
starting  point,  I  culled 
from  the  pages  of  the 
magazine  the  stories  of 
100  graduates.  Retelling 
these  tales  seemed  the 
most  appropriate  way  to  pay  tribute  to  the 


mittee  to  think  about  the  best  way  to  Journal  and  the  role  it  has  played  in  the 
observe  the  close  of  the  Journal's  first  cen-  lives  of  generations  of  WPI  alumni, 
tury.  The  committee  members,  Sam,  Bill  To  select  from  among  the  thousands 
Grogan  '46,  Bob  Labonte  '54,  Doug  of  individuals  the  Journal  has  covered,  I 
McKeown  '41  and  Roger  Perry  '45,  came  had  to  make  some  tough  choices.  Many, 
up  with  a  number  of  excellent  ideas.  For  many  worthy  candidates  did  not  make  the 
example,  they  suggested  telling  the  story  final  cut.  It  is  worth  making  special  note  of 
of  WPI,  decade  by  decade,  through  the  one  decision  I  made  that  helped  narrow 
eyes  of  the  Journal.  They  also  thought  it  the  field.  I  chose  to  include  in  this  article 
might  be  a  good  idea  to  look  at  how  the  only  what  the  Journal  once  called  "corn- 
University  and  its  graduates  have  changed  pleted  careers."  I  recognize  that  my  deci- 
over  the  span  of  the  Journal's  existence.  sion  excludes  many  distinguished  individ- 

In  the  end,  I  chose  my  own  peculiar  uals  who  continue  to  make  their  mark  on 

route.  While  deeply  indebted  to  the  ideas  the  world.  Regrettably,  this  choice  also 

and  support  of  the  committee,  and  pro-  produced  a  final  field  without  women; 

foundry  grateful  for  the  many  hours  they  since  WPI  has  been  graduating  women  for 

spent  digging  through  100  years  of  the  less  than  three  decades,  their  careers  are 

magazine  in  search  of  interesting  stories,  I  far  from  completed. 

take  full  responsibility  for  the  article  that  Having  said  all  that,  I  sincerely  hope 

begins  on  page  5.  you  enjoy  this  special  100th  anniversary 

As  my  predecessors  in  the  editor's  issue  and  the  panoramic  view  of  WPI 

chair  have  done  so  well  over  the  years,  I  alumni  it  presents.  As  always,  I  welcome 

tried  to  put  myself  in  the  place  of  Journal  your  comments, 
readers  and  ask  what  would  most  appeal  to  —  MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


tsmi 


EXPLORATIONS 


Research  Reveals 
How  Antiestrogens 
Save  Bones 

For  many  years  doctors  have  prescribed 
the  hormone  estrogen  to  post- 
menopausal women  to  prevent  osteo- 
porosis. But  estrogen  may  also  make  women 
more  susceptible  to  breast  cancer  and  seems 
to  accelerate  the  growth  of  existing  cancers. 
To  provide  women  the  benefits  of  estrogen 
therapy  without  the  risks,  and  to  enable 
breast  cancer  patients  to  continue  to  safe- 
guard their  bones  without  reducing  their 
odds  of  survival,  a  number  of  companies 
make  drugs  known  as  partial  antiestrogens, 
which  prevent  bone  loss  without  promoting 
cancer. 

Until  recently,  it  wasn't  clear  how  anti- 
estrogens affect  bone  tissue  or  how  their 
benefits  compare  with  estrogen.  Research  by 
Christopher  J.  Lengner  '98  is  helping  to 
answer  those  questions.  For  his  Major  Qual- 
ifying Project  in  biology,  Lengner  studied 
the  effects  of  estrogen  and  several  antiestro- 
gens on  cultures  of  bone  tissue.  Working  in 
the  laboratory  of  Gar)'  Stein,  deputy  direc- 
tor for  basic  research  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  Center,  Lengner  ex- 
posed bone  tissue  from  rats  to  various  doses 
of  each  compound.  He  then  watched  to  see 
how  the  drugs  affected  the  production  of 
proteins  that  promote  the  growth  of 
osteoblasts  (cells  responsible  for  the  matur- 
ing, mineralization  and  hardening  of  bone) 
and  osteoclasts  (cells  that  eat  away  at  bone). 

"Maintaining  healthy  bones  requires  a 
fine  balance  between  the  actions  of  these 
two  cell  types,"  Lengner  says.  "If  there  are 
too  many  osteoblasts,  bones  become  over- 
grown; too  many  osteoclasts,  and  bones 
deteriorate.  Estrogen  prevents  bone  loss  by 
promoting  the  growth  of  osteoblasts  more 
than  osteoclasts.  We  found  that  antiestro- 
gens promote  osteoblast  growth,  but  also 
retard  the  growth  of  osteoclasts.  In  this  way, 
they  actually  have  a  more  beneficial  effect 
on  bones." 

Lengner  says  his  research  also  revealed 
that  antiestrogens  boost  the  levels  of  the 
osteoblast-promoting  proteins  during  the 
period  of  programmed  cell  death,  a  time 
when  bone  cells  normally  don't  produce 
many  proteins.  "The  results  indicate  that 
these  drugs  are  capable  of  not  only  helping 
bones  grow  stronger,  but  of  ensuring  that 
bones  remain  strong  even  after  the  period  of 
growth  has  ended." 


— r 


From  left,  UMass  researchers  Gary  Stein  and  Jane  Lian  with  Christopher  Lengner. 


"Chris  is  working  on  a  small  but  vital 
piece  of  a  puzzle  we  feel  we  are  close  to 
solving,"  says  Jane  Lian,  professor  of  cell 
biology  at  UMass  Medical  Center,  who  is 
co-advisor  for  the  project  with  Jill  Rulfs, 
associate  professor  of  biology  and  biotech- 
nology at  WPI.  "It's  rare  for  an  undergradu- 
ate to  have  the  opportunity  and  the  skill  to 
complete  this  type  of  research.  We  expect 
his  findings  to  be  a  significant  contribution 
to  our  understanding  of  how  to  keep  post- 
menopausal breast  cancer  survivors  alive  and 
healthy  for  many  years  after  diagnosis." 

—BONNIE  GELBWASSER 


Where  the  Wild 
Things  Are 

Veterinary  professionals  who  work 
with  cats  and  dogs  can  find  a  wealth 
of  clinical  data  readily  available  to 
help  them  assess  their  patients'  status.  Until 
recently,  similar  information  about  such  deni- 
zens of  the  forest  or  fields  as  the  black-footed 
ferret,  the  American  black  bear,  the  eastern 
screech  owl  or  the  American  kestrel  was 
harder  to  come  by.  A  Major  Qualifying  Proj- 
ect by  a  WPI  student  has  changed  all  that. 

"Little  data  is  available  on  these  species 
because  they  are  seen  less  often — and  in 
smaller  numbers — by  animal  experts,"  says 
Thomas  Jenei  '99,  who  worked  with  Mark 
Pokras,  D.V.M.,  of  the  Tufts  University 
School  of  Veterinary  Medicine  to  develop  a 


wildlife  database  for  the  World  Wide  Web 
(www.vec.tufts.edu/rehab/index.html).  The 
database  contains  information  about  blood 
counts,  serum  chemistry,  temperature, 
pulse,  respiration  and  average  adult  weights 
for  33  species.  Jenei  surveyed  veterinarians 
and  wildlife  rehabilitators  to  guide  the 
development  of  the  site. 

"There  is  a  large  database  for  captive 
zoo  animals,  called  ISIS/MedArks,  but  ours 
is  the  first  database  for  free-ranging  wild 
animals,"  Pokras  says.  "It's  a  valuable  contri- 
bution to  the  care  of  these  birds  and  mam- 
mals, and  has  been  well-received  by  wildlife 
rehabilitators  and  others  involved  in  wild 
animal  care." 

Jenei,  a  biology  major,  is  enrolled  in 
WPI's  joint  degree  program  with  Tufts,  and 
will  continue  on  to  the  Tufts  veterinary 
school  in  the  fall  to  complete  his  D.V.M. 
degree.  He  and  Pokras  say  both  Tufts  and 
WPI  intend  to  expand  on  the  database  proj- 
ect next  year. 

— BG 


Thomas  Jenei  and  his  wildlife  database. 


mrsSmKvm/tiammmr™™"'**i*n*i™*lK*x" 


Project  Makes 
an  Art  of  High 
Technology 


EXPLORATIONS 


Depicting  a  mourning  woman,  it 
once  sat  atop  a  tomb  in  Canosa,  a 
region  in  Southern  Italy  that  was 
then  colonized  by  Greeks. 

The     3-foot-tall     statue — 
believed  to  be  one  of  about  15 

An     innovative     scanner  extant  in  the  world — broke  into 

developed  through  a  part-  Iff  wjj|     several  pieces  during  its  journe\  to 

nership  between  WPI  and  ^  *  •  /         Worcester.  It  was  placed  in  stor- 

the  Worcester  Art   Museum  will     *  ^k.    "%»  i  -Jl^M     B^     a&e'  awaitmS  repair,  ar>d  was  not 

enable  museums  and  galleries  to     E  \  M    ft  jf^»m     sccn    aga'n    until    1996,    when 

see  what  lies  beneath  the  surface  *•  ^"  ^r    KjSA     Lawrence  Becker,  the  museum's 

of  their  art  treasures.  The  low-     ^—- r  -     ,&  gM        ^Jf^        chief  conservator,  discovered  it  in 

cost  imaging  device  makes  the  a  back  room. 

u       r       r  j  ■       1  From  left,  Pat  Noonan  and  Scott  Townsend  with  Worces-          i,nan  v„  a     v   ,kj„0    „„  • 

benefits  of  digita  1  imaging,  previ-  .       ..I.               -..    .  ~                                           B      •,                    When  Karen  Rutledge,  assis- 

,,5     ,       .?    5   F    .  ter  Art  Museum  Chief  Conservator  Lawrence  Becker.                       -              -    .        .  °  : 

ously  possible  only  with  expensive  tant  professor  of  chemical  engi- 

technology,  available  to  virtually  any  art  his-  "Pat  and  Scott  started  with  inexpensive,     neering  at  WPI,  learned  about  the  statue, 

torian,  curator,  gallery  owner  or  collector.  off-the-shelf  technology,  then  applied  just     she  wondered  whether  modern  materials 

The  scanner  illuminates  an  artwork  with  the  right  amount  of  intelligent  engineering,"     science  might  provide  some  answers  about 

light  in  the  visible,  near-infrared  and  ultravi-  McNeill  says.  "The  result  is  an  affordable,     its  origin,  composition,  function  and  sym- 

olet  spectra.  Minerals  in  paint  pigments  react  easy-to-use  system  that  meets  the  immediate     bolism.  She  organized  two  student  projects 

differently  to  light  of  different  wavelengths,  needs  of  a  wide  range  of  customers.  They've 

so  variations  in  the  intensity  of  the  reflected  also  identified  the  issues  that  need  to  be 

light  can  reveal  details  about  what  lies  be-  addressed  to  scale  up  the  concept  to  image 

neath  the  surface  layers  of  paint  and  dirt.  It  large-scale  works  of  art,  such  as  murals  and 

was  developed  by  Patrick  Noonan  '98  and  frescoes.  This  MQP  is  a  great  example  of    examined  the  feasibility  of  using  nonde- 


to  get  some  answers. 

For  their  Interactive  Qualifying  Project, 
Christopher  Cote  '99  and  Leslie  Valentine 
'98  looked  into  the  statue's  history  and 


— BG 


Scott  Townsend  '98,  who  modified  a  docu-     engineers  working  to  understand  what  cus- 
ment  scanner  by  adding  controlling  circuitry     tomers  need  and  then  designing  a  solution." 
and  a  source  of  near-infrared  light.  They  also 
wrote  software  that  allows  the  device  to  be 
controlled  with  a  personal  computer. 

The  prototype  the  students  built  uses 
only  visible  and  near-infrared  light;  they 
hope  the  ability  to  scan  in  ultraviolet  wave- 
lengths will  be  added  to  future  models.  The 
device  can  scan  an  8-inch  by  10-inch  area 
and  must  be  placed  close  to  a  painting  to 

obtain  an  accurate  image,  making  it  suitable     A    I  ~ A  hree  WPI  undergraduates  are  using 
for  scanning  small  works  or  portions  of  large 
paintings.  The  students  developed  specifica- 
tions for  a  full-scale  model. 

Noonan  and  Townsend  worked  with 


Student  Sleuths  Use 
Science  to  Solve  the 
Mystery  of  the  Statue 


i 


Chief  Conservator  Lawrence  Becker,  Paint- 
ings Conservator  Rita  Albertson  and  Paper 
Consevator  Joan  Wright  at  the  art  museum 
to  learn  more  about  how  museums  use 
imaging  devices;  Becker  and  Albertson  also 
helped  with  the  design  and  testing.  The  proj- 
ect was  advised  by  Richard  Vaz  '79,  asso- 
ciate professor  of  electrical  and  computer 
engineering,  John  McNeill,  assistant  profes- 
sor of  electrical  and  computer  engineering, 
and  Fabio  Carrera  '84,  adjunct  instructor. 
Carrera,  a  native  of  Venice,  and  Vaz  are  co- 
directors  of  WPI's  Venice  Project  Center, 
where  the  definition  of  the  project  began 
about  three  years  ago  when  Carrera  learned 
that  Paolo  Spezzani,  a  world-renowned  art 
historian  and  curator  based  in  Venice,  was 
interested  in  an  affordable  scanner. 


structive  evaluation — using  equipment  at 
the  museum  or  the  capabilities  of  WPI's 
Materials  Characterization  Laboratory — to 
reveal  some  of  the  object's  secrets.  In  the 
process,  they  learned  how  the  job  of  mu- 
seum curator  has  changed  over  the  years. 

"There  are  major  differences  between 
how  curators  examine  art  materials  now  and 
how  they  learned  about  their  history  in  the 
past,"  Cote  says.  "A  hundred  years  ago,  peo- 
ple didn't  care  what  they  did;  they  would 
break  off  pieces  to  see  what  the  materials 
were.  Now  we  recognize  the  importance  of 
not  damaging  the  object." 

Lisa  Angle  '99  used  such  materials  sci- 
ence tools  as  x-ray  defraction  and  scanning 
electron  microscopy  to  examine  bits  of 
terra-cotta  and  paint  from  various  parts  of 
the  statue.  She  was  particularly  interested  in 
the  chemical  makeup  of  the  pink-toned  pig- 
ment on  the  hands  and  feet  and  the  white 
between  how  Curators  examine     "slip"  that  coats  the  entire  figure,  and  in 

determining  whether  the  paint — and  even 
some  of  the  clay — was  added  after  the  statue 
was  created. 

"Having  the  statue  in  pieces  is  an  advan- 
tage," she  says.  "In  some  cases,  you  can  see 
where  the  statue  had  been  pieced  together 
and  whether  someone  slapped  on  some 
adhesive  or  glue." 

The  museum  hopes  to  bring  the  statue 
back  to  its  original  appearance — a  project 
expected  to  take  several  years. 

— BG 


computers  and  materials  science  to 
solve  a  70-year-old-mystery  for  the 
Worcester    Art   Museum.    The    puzzle 
revolves  around  an  ancient  terra-cotta  statue 
the   museum   purchased   in   the    1920s. 


"There  are  major  differences 


art  materials  now  and  how 

they  learned  about  their 

history  in  the  past... . Now  we 

recognize  the  importance  of 

not  damaging  the  object. " 

— Christopher  Cote  y99 


4 


hhuh 


People  of  the  Century 


The  engineer  who  ran  the  Trans-Siherian  Rail- 
way. The  man  who  built  one  of  the  world's  first 
automobiles.  The  nation's  first  traffic  engineer.  The  inventor  of 
one  of  the  first  practical  time  clocks.  The  supervisor  of  one  of  the 
greatest  water  supply  projects  of  all  time.  A  cartoonist  for  Harper's 
and  the  New  York  Herald.  The  inventor  of  rock  wool.  The  founder 
of  Alden,  Pa.  A  developer  of  sulpha  drugs.  The  designer  of  the  first 
airplane  to  cross  the  Atlantic  Ocean.  The  classifier  of  more  than 
1,000  new  species  of  plants  and  animals.  The 
founder  of  one  of  the  earliest  and  most  successful 
study-at-home  programs.  The  attorney  who 
defended  Sacco  and  Vanzetti.  A  governor  of 
Connecticut.  The  general  who  was  President 
Truman's  eyes  and  ears  in  Korea.  The  father  of 
commercial  radio  broadcasting.  Winners  of  the 
Academy  Award  and  the  Emmy. 

What  do  these  individuals  have  in  common? 
For  one,  they  all  studied  at  WPI.  For  another, 
their  stories  were  told  in  the  pages  of  the  WPI 
Journal  during  its  first  100  years. 

When  it  debuted  in  November  1897,  the 
Journal  was  one  of  the  nation's  earliest  college 
alumni  magazines.  It  was  the  brainchild  of  a 
group  of  adventurous  WPI  students  and  faculty 
who  believed  that  there  was  a  need  for  a  regular  publication  to 
highlight  the  accomplishments  and  personal  milestones  of  WPI's 
graduates,  and  to  keep  those  men  (there  were  no  women  graduates 
until  1972)  informed  about  their  ever  changing  alma  mater.  The 
fact  that  the  magazine  lives  on,  a  century  after  that  first  issue,  is  a 
testament  to  their  foresight. 

Over  the  years,  the  Journal  has  changed  dramatically.  Original- 
ly a  technical  journal  filled  with  long-winded  dissertations  on  engi- 
neering milestones  and  practices,  it  slowly  evolved  into  the  more 
traditional  university  magazine  you  see  before  you.  It  has  under- 
gone numerous  transformations  in  size,  typography,  illustration, 
layout  and  frequency.  It  has  survived  near  financial  ruin  and  the 
occasional  scrutiny  of  budget  cutters.  Its  history  includes  a  brief 


BY  MICHAEL  W.  DORSEY 


"With  their  ideas, 

their  imagination, 

their  knowledge, 

their  creativity,  their 


INDOMITABLE  SPIRIT, 


AND  THEIR  SWEAT  AND 


TEARS,  THEY  BUILT  THE 
WORLD  OF  THE  20TH 


CENTURY  AND  LEFT 


BEHIND  A  LEGACY  THAT 


WILL  LONG  ENDURE. 


marriage  with  several  other  alumni  magazines 
that  formed  a  publishing  consortium,  the  birth  of 
an  offspring  (the  newsy  WPI  Wire),  and  the  creation  of  an  elec- 
tronic clone  on  the  World  Wide  Web  (www.wpi.edu/+Journal). 

But  one  thing  has  not  changed  about  the  WPI  Journal.  From 
that  first  issue  right  up  to  the  edition  you  hold  in  your  hands,  the 
magazine  has  always  been  a  showcase  for  individuals  who  have  taken 
their  WPI  degrees  out  into  the  world  and  done  remarkable  things. 
And,  throughout  those  event-filled  100  years, 
there  has  never  been  a  shortage  of  interesting  peo- 
ple to  write  about. 

When  the  editors  began  work  on  Vol.  1, 
No.  1,  they  looked  out  at  the  world  of  the  late 
19th  century  and  saw  how  technology  was  trans- 
forming it  in  every  way  imaginable.  They  also 
saw  how  WPI  alumni  were  shaping  that  technol- 
ogy and  leaving  a  remarkable  imprint  on  history. 
Through  the  years,  graduates  of  the  University 
have  invented,  designed  and  manufactured  tech- 
nologies that  changed  our  lives.  They  have 
founded  and  run  companies  too  numerous  to 
mention,  designed  and  erected  buildings,  dams, 
and  bridges,  and  fashioned  great  networks  of  rail- 
roads, highways,  waterways  and  power  lines. 
They  have  made  scientific  discoveries  and  explored  uncharted  ter- 
ritory—both physical  and  metaphorical.  They  have  held  nearly 
every  job  and  pursued  nearly  every  occupation  one  could  envision, 
and  they  have  excelled  at  most  of  them.  With  their  ideas,  their 
imagination,  their  knowledge,  their  creativity,  their  indomitable 
spirit,  and  their  sweat  and  tears,  they  built  the  world  of  the  20th 
century  and  left  behind  a  legacy  that  will  long  endure. 

To  celebrate  the  Journal's  first  century  of  publication,  its  editors 
have  combed  through  every  issue  of  the  magazine  looking  for  100  of 
those  stories  to  tell  again.  We  have  uncovered  some  familiar  tales, 
and  some  lesser-known  gems.  Taken  together,  they  tell  the  story, 
not  only  of  an  educational  institution  and  its  remarkable  products, 
but  of  the  evolution  of  the  technological  world  we  inhabit. 


WPI  JOURNAL    5 


MUdHMUHUUJI 


«""^  urnrttwirm 


For  early  graduates,  the  burgeon- 
ing railroad  industry  must  have 
been  a  powerful  lure.  Those 
early  alumni  emerged  at  a  time  of 
tremendous  expansion  and  consoli- 
dation in  this  young  industry.  For 
those  with  a  willingness  to  set  out 
for  America's  frontier,  the  possibili- 
ties were  endless.  One  of  the  first  to 
answer  the  siren  call  of  the  railroads 
was  John  W.  Kendrick,  Class  of 
1873.  In  1879  he  landed  a  job  as  a 
surveyor  with  the  Northern  Pacific 
and  by  1888  was  chief  engineer  of 
the  entire  railroad.  Later,  as  general 
manager,  he  reorganized  the  line 
and  put  the  Northern  Pacific  back 
on  a  firm  footing  after  a  period  of 
financial  hardship.  He  went  on  to 
become  a  senior  executive  with  the 
Atchison,  Topeka  &  Santa  Fe  and 
the  International-Great  Northern. 

William  L.  Darling,  Class  of 
1877,  joined  the  Northern  Pacific 
in  1878  and  was  soon  working  on 
the  first  northern  transcontinental 
line.  He  led  the  crews  that  built  the 
line  from  Missoula,  Mont.,  to  the 
Columbia  River,  where  they  met  the 


party  coming  west.  He  also  built  the 
main  line  out  of  Minneapolis  and 
the  city's  passenger  terminal.  Later 
in  his  career  he  was  part  of  the  Rail- 
way Advisory  Commission,  a  group 
of  railway  experts  who  advised  the 
Russian  government  on  improve- 
ments to  the  Trans-Siberian  Rail- 
road just  before  the  Russian  Revolu- 
tion (see  essay  on  Benjamin 
Johnson,  below). 

John  Q.  Barlow,  Class  of 
1882,  also  started  out  with  the 
Northern  Pacific;  by  1887  he  was 
division  engineer  with  the  Union 
Pacific,  responsible,  ultimately,  for 
building  250  miles  of  track  in  four 
states.  He  eventually  worked  for 
several  railroads  in  the  West, 
Northwest  and  East.  As  chief  engi- 
neer for  the  Western  Maryland 
Railroad,  he  built  a  new  transcon- 
tinental line,  the  first  to  take  passen- 
gers coast  to  coast  without  changing 
trains.  He  later  became  chief  engi- 
neer for  Utah  Construction  Co., 
one  of  the  firms  that  helped  build 
the  West.  For  one  assignment,  Bar- 
low supervised  the  laying  of  20  miles 


of  rail  line  needed  for  the  construc- 
tion of  Boulder  Dam. 

John  J.  Donovan,  Class  of 

1882,  went  west  to  work  for  the 
railroads,  but  ultimately  became  an 
important  name  in  the  lumber 
industry.  He  worked  on  rail  projects 
in  Montana  and  Washington  before 
finding  himself  in  charge  of  several 
rail  lines  emanating  from  the  village 
of  Bellingham,  Wash.  He  resigned 
from  his  railroad  duties  in  1906  and 
with  a  partner  formed  Bloedel- 
Donovan  Lumber  Mills,  which 
became  one  of  the  largest  lumber 
companies  in  the  Northwest.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  board  of  free- 
holders who  framed  Bellingham's 
charter  and  served  on  its  city  council 
for  many  years. 

Benjamin  O.  Johnson,  Class 
of  1900,  had,  perhaps,  the  most 
colorful  and  adventure-filled  rail- 
roading career  of  any  YVTI  alumnus. 
While  the  industry's  trailblazing 
days  were  largely  over  by  the  time 
he  graduated,  the  lure  of  the  rails 
drew  him  west,  where  he  worked  for 
the  Northern  Pacific  and  the  Atchi- 


son, Topeka  &  Santa  Fe.  In  1917, 
after  the  Russian  Revolution,  he  was 
commissioned  a  major  in  the  Russ- 
ian Railway  Service  Corps.  Continu- 
ing the  work  of  the  Railway  Adviso- 
ry Committee  (see  essay  on  William 
Darling,  above),  this  American  mili- 
tary unit  was  established  to  protect 
railroad  interests  in  Siberia  and  to 
reorganize  and  run  the  Trans-Siber- 
ian Railroad.  Johnson's  assignment 
was  to  repair  tracks  and  bridges 
damaged  in  military  action  and 
direct  operations  on  the  line.  He 
also  took  charge  of  some  of  the 
Czech  Legion  troops  who  were 
engaging  the  revolutionary  forces 
for  control  of  the  tracks.  The 
Czechoslovakian  government  would 
later  honor  him  with  the  War 
Cross,  its  highest  honor  (he  was  the 
first  American  to  receive  the  medal). 
When  the  head  of  the  Interallied 
Technical  Board  returned  to  the 
United  States,  Johnson  became  act- 
ing president,  which  put  him  in 
command  of  Allied  forces  in  Siberia 
and  in  charge  of  portions  of  the 
Trans-Siberian  and  Chinese  Eastern 


■nQMl 


g  He  went  on  to  become  a  reporter 

E  for  the  Anaconda  Standard,  and  was 

§  later  managing  editor  ot  the  Daily 

3  Missoulian  in  Missoula.  It  was  then 

that  Montana  State  University  asked 

him  to  start  its  journalism  school. 

Stone  served  the  school  as  dean  for 

many  years. 

New  England  sports  tans  near 
the  turn  of  the  century  enjoyed  the 
pose  of  two  WPI  alumni.  Harry  L. 
Dadmun,  Class  of  1891,  achieved 
tame  as  a  runner  when  he  won  the 
national  championship  in  the  halt- 
mile  event  while  still  a  student.  Alter 
graduation,  he  became  a  sports 
writer  tor  the  Worcester  Telegram. 
lie  left  the  paper  to  work  for  the 
Worcester  Sewer  Department  and 
to  he  secretary  for  a  Rochester, 
N.Y.,  basehall  team.  Me  eventuall) 
returned  to  the  Telegram  to  resume 
his  writing  career.  Walter  E.  Hap- 
good,  Class  of  1895,  was  a  sports 
writer  for  the  Worcester  Spy  before 
he  joined  the  Boston  Herald,  where 
he  was  named  sports  editor  after  just 
three  years.  1  le  later  wrote  tor  the 
Boston  Transcript  before  taking  a  post 
as  secretary  and  business  manager  ot 
the  Boston  Braves  in  1914,  just  after 
the  team  won  the  World  Series.  He 
was  part  owner  ot  the  Rochester, 
N.Y.,  Baseball  Club  and  general 
manager  of  the  Montreal  Exhibition 
Co.  before  founding  and  editing  the 
Horsemen  V  News. 

While  he  began  his  career  as  a 
mechanical  engineer,  Leon  P. 
Alford,  Class  of  1896,  found  his 


railways  (about  2,000  miles  of  track, 
in  all).  When  he  returned  to  the 
United  States  in  1922,  Johnson  was 
honored  by  several  governments. 
France  gave  him  the  Cross  of  the 
Legion  of  Honor,  China  its  Chia 
Ho,  or  Distinguished  Service  Deco- 
ration, and  the  United  States  its 
Distinguished  Service  Medal. 


The  State  of 
the  Arts 

WPI  alumni  have  achieved  suc- 
cess— and  occasional  fame — 
in  a  number  ot  creative 
endeavors.  The  field  of  journalism 
was  an  especially  popular  occupation 
tor  graduates  during  WPI's  first  half 
century.  Among  them,  Arthur  L. 
Stone,  Class  of  1884,  stands  out, 
for  he  may  be  the  only  WPI  gradu- 
ate to  have  founded  a  journalism 
school.  He  went  west  after  gradua- 
tion to  work  as  a  chemist  for  the 
Union  Pacific,  but  left  railroading  to 
teach  science  in  Anaconda,  Mont. 


Alford 

true  calling  as  an  editor.  He  also 
became  one  of  the  country's  fore- 
most authorities  on  industrial  engi- 
neering and  management.  In  1921 
he  founded  Management  Engi- 
neering, and  also  edited  Industrial 
Management  and  Manufacturing 
Industries.  He  ultimately  became 
vice  president  of  the  Ronald  Press, 
which  published  these  and  other 
periodicals.  He  was  also  the  author 
of  Management's  Handbook  and  Laws 
of  Management  Applied  to  Manu- 
facturing. His  achievements  won 
him  the  Melville  Medal  and  the 
Henry  Laurence  Gantt  Medal  from 
the  American  Society  of  Mechanical 
Engineers. 


John  F.  Keyes  Jr.  '18  was 

music  critic  for  Worcester's  I  he 
/•'.veuii/g  Gazette  lor  30  years,  a  job 
he  landed  alter  working  tor  several 
manufacturing  companies  in  the 
Worcester  area,  lie  likely  covered 
the  early  career  ot  Arthur  W. 
Backgren  '32,  a  talented  member 
of  the  WPI  Glee  Club  who  sang 
with  the  Worcester  Music  Festival 
Chorus  while  pursuing  a  career  in 
construction.  In  time,  he  decided  to 
leave  engineering  and  move  to  New 
York  to  study  voice.  In  1944  he  won 
a  spot  in  the  chorus  ot  the  New 
York  City  Opera  Co.;  a  year  later  he- 
joined  the  chorus  of  the  Metropoli- 
tan Opera,  where  he  sang  lor  20 
years.  He  also  did  choral  work  with 
Arturo  Toscanini  and  the  NBC 
Symphony  Orchestra. 

William  A.  Rogers,  Class  of 
1874,  left  WPI  long  before  gradu- 
ation to  pursue  his  interest  in  draw- 
ing. He  moved  to  New  York  City, 
and  over  the  years  his  drawings  and 
editorial  cartoons  appeared  in 
Harper's,  Puck,  Life  and  the  New  York 
Herald.  Among  Rogers'  most  famous 
works  was  a  Herald  cartoon  about 
the  Tammany  Hall  scandal  that 
showed  a  pyramid  ot  policemen  ot 
increasing  rank  handing  hags  up. 
The  caption  read,  "How  high  up 
does  it  go?"  "Tammany  bought  up 
every  copy  of  the  issue  from  the 
newsstands,"  Rogers  said. 


Kendrick 


Darling 


Donovan 


Opposite,  a  Northern  Pacific  passenger  train  in  1900. 
Above,  a  William  Rogers  cartoon  from  the  New  York  Herald. 


imi»uit^tnji»j 


From 

the 

Ground 

Up 


Hi 


Important  buildings  and  other 
major  edifices  around  the  world 
bear  the  imprint  of  WPI  gradu- 
ates. They  include  the  Government 
Printing  Office  and  the  Army  War 
College  engineering  school  and  bar- 
racks in  Washington,  D.C.,  which 
were  built  under  the  supervision  of 
Mark  Wilmarth,  Class  of  1876, 
while  he  was  principal  assistant 
engineer  in  the  United  States  Engi- 
neers Office.  Willmarth  began  his 
career  with  the  Boston  Sewer 
Department  and  was  later  an  execu- 
tive with  several  construction  firms 
in  New  England.  He  returned  to 
Boston  in  1907  as  general  manager 
of  Monolith  Steel  Co.,  which  gave 
him  the  opportunity  to  supervise  the 
construction  of  the  Custom  House 


Tower,  one  of  Boston's  most  recog- 
nizable landmarks. 

The  ingenuity  of  T.  Spencer 
Miller,  Class  of  1879,  made  work 
easier  at  construction  sites  all  over 
the  world,  and  is  credited  with 
speeding  progress  on  such  mam- 
moth projects  as  the  Panama  Canal 
and  Boulder  Dam.  Miller  perfected 
a  cable  carrier  system  that  made  it 
possible  to  deliver  heavy  loads,  like 
concrete,  easily  and  accurately  over 
long  distances.  One  of  his  cable- 
ways,  used  in  the  construction  of 
Hoover  Dam,  was  2,500  feet  long 
and  could  carry  10-ton  loads.  He 
joined  Lingerwood  Co.  as  chief 
engineer  in  1888  and  immediately 
set  to  work  to  improve  a  cable  sys- 
tem the  company  was  working  on. 


His  invention  of  the  "button  stop" 
fall  rope  carrier  made  the  product 
an  instant  success.  Miller  also  devel- 
oped a  log-skidding  cableway  that 
made  it  economical  to  remove 
cypress  logs  from  the  Louisiana 
swamps,  a  conveyor  for  coaling 
ships  at  sea,  and  an  automatic  ten- 
sion engine  that  made  it  possible  to 
use  a  breeches  buoy  to  rescue  people 
from  disabled  ships  even  in  the 
roughest  weather. 

Charles  C.  Hall,  Class  of 
1882,  was  working  in  the  steel 
industry  when  he  invented  a  build- 
ing material  still  commonly  used  for 
heat  and  sound  insulation.  Called 
rock  wool,  or  mineral  wool,  it  is 
made  by  blowing  steam  through 
molten  rock.  Hall  formed  a  partner- 
ship to  make  the  new  product  and 
later  founded  Banner  Rock  Products 
Co.,  which  was  purchased  by  Johns 
Manville  Co.  in  1929. 

Hamilton  J.  Chapman,  Class 
of  1886,  was  a  consulting  engineer 
for  such  New  York  City  landmarks 
as  Grand  Central  Terminal  and  the 
Flatiron  Building  (New  York's  first 
skyscraper),  as  well  as  the  Treasury 
Building  Annex  in  Washington, 
DC.  Walter  F.  Conlin  '17  was 
one  of  the  top  building  project  man- 
agers in  the  country.  He  joined 
Turner  Construction  Co.  after 
graduation  and  supervised  such 
diverse  projects  as  an  aircraft  factory 
in  New  Orleans,  a  rubber  factory  in 
Massachusetts,  the  Navy  Test  Basin 
in  Maryland,  and  the  Port  Authority 
Bus  Terminal  in  New  York. 

A.  Winthrop  Merchant, 
Class  of  1897,  was  one  of  the  most 
prominent  architects  and  building 
contractors  in  New  England.  With  a 
partner,  he  founded  Williams  & 
Merchant;  when  his  partner  died  in 
1916,  he  took  over  the  business, 
which  was  renamed  AW.  Merchant 
Inc.  The  company  built  the  Rhode- 
Island  Auditorium,  the  Metcalf  Lab- 
oratory at  Brown  Lmiversity  and  the 
Roger  Williams  Memorial,  all  in 
Providence. 

Building  bridges,  dams  and  pow- 
er projects  has  been  the  principal 
occupation  of  a  number  of  WPI 
graduates  through  the  years.  During 
his  lifelong  career  with  Bethlehem 
Steel  Co.,  E.  Leland  Durkee  '19 
worked  on  the  design  and  erection 
of  many  of  the  world's  most  notable- 
bridges,  including  the  Golden  Gate 
Bridge  in  San  Francisco,  the  Cooper 
River  Bridge  in  South  Carolina  and 
the  Rainbow  Bridge  in  Niagara 
Falls.  George  R.  Rich  '19  was  a 
renowned  designer  of  power-gener- 
ating plants.  In  his  57  years  as  a  pro- 
fessional engineer,  he  worked  on 


such  projects  as  the  Passamaquoddy 
Tidal  Power  Project  in  Maine,  the 
St.  Lawrence  Power  Project,  and 
the  Cape  Cod  Ship  Canal  and 
Locks.  Charles  C.  Bonin  '38  was 
a  worldwide  authority  on  the  con- 
struction of  arch  dams.  He  joined 
Ebasco  Services  after  graduation 
and  ultimately  became  chairman  and 
CEO  of  Chemico,  an  Ebasco  affili- 
ate. He  was  responsible  for  the 
design  and  construction  of  the 
Kamishuba  Arch  Dam,  the  first  arch 
dam  built  in  Asia. 

Two  graduates  played  pivotal 
roles  in  the  building  of  new  towns. 
Kirtland  M.  Smith,  Class  of 
1872,  was  an  engineer  for  the 
AJden  Coal  Co.  when  he  discovered 
a  rich  coal  vein  in  rural  Luzerne 
County  in  Pennsylvania.  He  super- 
vised the  construction  of  a  mine  and 
founded  the  town  of  Alden,  Pa.,  to 
support  it.  He  was  Alden's  leading 
citizen  for  50  years.  Warren  W. 
Parks  '17  was  the  resident  engineer 
on  the  layout  and  construction  of 
Marimont,  Ohio,  a  model  town 
built  in  the  1920s. 


A  NEW 

Generation  of 
Mariners 


The  railroads  were  not  the  only 
means  of  transportation  to  have 
benefited  from  the  creativity 
and  talents  of  WPI  alumni.  A  num- 
ber of  graduates  helped  shape  the 
modern  era  of  shipbuilding.  Hugo 
P.  Frear,  Class  of  1883,  for  ex- 
ample, was  a  designer  and  builder  of 
ships  and  shipyards.  Frear  joined  the 
Union  Iron  Works  in  San  Francisco 
as  a  draftsman  after  graduation  and 
went  on  to  become  chief  naval 
designer.  He  later  became  chief 
naval  architect  for  Bethlehem  Ship- 
building Corp.  He  designed  one  of 
the  earliest  West  Coast  shipbuilding 
yards,  the  first  to  be  fitted  with  an 
immense  hydraulic  lifting  dry  dock. 
He  designed  ships  in  many  classes, 
from  tugboats  to  patrol  boats  to 


8 


cruisers,  and  was  chief  designer  of 
the  Battleship  Wisconsin.  The  Soci- 
ety of  Naval  Architects  and  Marine 
Engineers  honored  him  in  1939 
with  its  David  W.  Taylor  Medal. 

The  powder  used  in  the  guns  on 
the  ships  Frear  designed  was  likely 
the  product  of  the  ingenuity  of 
George  W.  Patterson,  Class  of 
1888.  Patterson  was  considered  the 
foremost  expert  on  the  compound- 
ing and  manufacture  ot  smokeless 
powder.  He  was  chief  chemist  and 
expert  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Powder 
Factory  for  more  than  40  years, 
and  is  credited  with  new  develop- 
ments that  gave  U.S.  ships  superior 
firepower. 

The  interest  of  Charles  E. 
Eveleth,  Class  of  1899,  was  not 
building  ships,  but  finding  them.  As 
an  engineer  at  General  Electric's 
Schenectady  Works,  he  was  a  mem- 
ber of  a  group  that  in  1917  invented 
a  submarine  detector.  The  device, 
used  on  many  vessels  operating 
under  American  and  Allied  flags 
during  World  War  I,  contributed  to 
the  destruction  or  disabling  of  50 
enemy  craft. 

Robert  L.  Hague  '03  may  be 
the  only  alumnus  to  have  had  a 
major  oceangoing  vessel  named  for 
him.  The  17, 800-ton  oil  tanker 
R.  L.  Hague  was  built  in  Italy  in  1932, 


putting  america 
Behind  the 
Wheel 

As  the  heyday  of  the  great  rail- 
roads was  waning,  the  age  of 
the  automobile  was  beginning. 
Several  WP1  alumni  played  pivotal 
roles  in  the  development  and  success 
of  the  early  automotive  industry. 
Perhaps  the  most  famous  is  Elwood 
Haynes,  Class  of  1881,  who  built 
one  of  the  first  gasoline-powered 
cars  in  America  and  took  it  for  a 
brief  drive  near  Kokomo,  Ind.,  on 
July  4,  1894.  The  car  is  now  in  the 
Smithsonian  Institution,  and  a  mon- 
ument commemorates  Kokomo  as 
"the  birthplace  of  a  new  era  of  trans- 
portation." 

Haynes  turned  his  invention  into 
a  successful  business,  the  Haynes 
iVlotor  Co.  He  also  founded  Haynes 
Stellite  Co.,  which  commercialized 
seminal  discoveries  he  made  in  the 
field  of  metallurgy.  As  a  student  at 
WPI,  he  had  become  discouraged 
when  a  steel  razor  blade  he  made 
rusted.  Later,  he  became  one  of  the 
first  researchers  to  develop  and 
manufacture  stainless  steel.  He  also 
invented  a  number  of  alloys  of 
chromium,  cobalt,  tungsten  and 
molybdenum.  One,  called  Stellite, 


I 


-^SS*?» 


jKv^vi^ 


a  tribute  to  an  accomplished  ship 
designer  who  spent  his  entire  career 
on  the  ocean  or  building  vessels  to 
ply  it.  He  first  went  to  sea  as  crew- 
man on  a  Great  Banks  fishing  smack 
and  then  was  an  apprentice  on  a 
four-masted  bark.  He  was  later  an 
oiler  on  a  freighter  owned  by  the 
American  Hawaiian  Steamship  Co., 
and  rose  through  the  ranks  to  be- 
come assistant  in  charge  of  new 
construction  for  the  line.  After 
World  War  I,  he  joined  Standard 
Oil  of  New  Jersey,  where  he  even- 
tually became  general  manager 
of  the  marine  department.  During 
his  tenure,  the  company's  fleet  of 
tankers  grew  from  81  to  205,  and 
its  shipping  tonnage  more  than 
doubled. 


was  much  harder  than  many  steels 
and  proved  an  ideal  material  for  cut- 
ting tools. 

Windsor  T.  White,  Class  of 
1890,  built  another  early  car. 
White  formed  the  White  Motor  Co. 
in  Cleveland,  Ohio,  in  the  early  part 
of  the  century  and  made  steam  cars 
until  switching  over  to  gasoline- 
powered  cars  and  trucks  in  1909. 
He  was  also  president  of  White 
Sewing  Machine  Co.  For  a  time,  he 
served  as  president  of  the  National 
Association  of  Automobile  Manu- 
facturers and  was  chairman  of  the 
Motor  Truck  Committee  of  the 
National  Automobile  Chamber  of 
Commerce. 

Critical  developments  in  manu- 
facturing technology  pioneered  by 


WPI  graduates  contributed  immea- 
surably to  the  growth  of  the  auto- 
motive industry.  Victor  E. 
Edwards,  Class  of  1883,  as  chief 
engineer  for  Morgan  Construction 
Co.  in  Worcester,  is  credited  with  a 
number  of  innovations  in  rolling 
mill  technology  that  revolutionized 
steel  making.  Perhaps  his  best- 
known  invention  was  the  flying 
shear  that  cut  steel  billets  while  they 
were  in  motion,  making  possible  the 
continuous  manufacture  of  steel. 
James  N.  Heald,  Class  of  1884, 
the  third  generation  of  his  family  to 
run  Heald  Machine  Co.,  developed 
the  internal  grinding  machine  that 
paved  the  way  for  the  mass  produc- 
tion of  internal  combustion  engines. 

Until  it  closed  in  the  mid-1960s, 
the  Studebaker  Company  made 
innovative,  stylish  automobiles.  For 
nearly  two  decades,  until  his  death 
in  an  automobile  accident  in  1952, 
Stanwood  W.  Sparrow  '11 
directed  the  company's  research  and 
development  operation.  Sparrow 
served  for  a  time  as  president  of  the 
Society  of  Automotive  Engineers. 

Studebaker  was  just  one  of  many 
automobile  companies  that  sent  new 
cars  to  WPI  to  be  tested  in  the  labo- 
ratory of  David  L.  Gallup,  Class 
of  1901,  professor  of  mechanical 
and  gas  engineering.  Gallup  was  a 
pioneer  in  the  study  of  the  mechani- 
cal performance  of  automobiles. 
Using  equipment  largely  of  his  own 
design,  he  built  a  testing  laboratory 
in  the  basement  of  Stratton  Hall, 
where  he  became  the  first  researcher 
to  demonstrate  that  the  relationship 
between  vehicle  weight  and  power  is 
an  important  consideration  in  auto- 
motive design.  He  left  WPI  in  1917 


Miller 


Eveleth 


Gallup 


Far  left,  the  Flatiron  Building, 
a  milestone  in  building 
construction,  rises  in  1902. 
Center,  a  model  of  the  oil 
tanker  named  for  Robert  L. 
Hague.  Above,  top,  Elwood 
Haynes  in  his  historic  auto- 
mobile in  Indiana  at  the 
site  of  his  first  test  drive. 


Marsh 


Bennett 


Irons 


Karl  Schmidt  supervised 

the  construction  of  the 

dirigible  ZR-3,  similar  to  the 

airship  being  built  in  the 

photo  at  right,  top.  George 

Smith  helped  design  the 

NC-4,  right,  bottom,  the  first 

plane  to  cross  the  Atlantic. 


and  later  became  vice  president  and 
director  of  engineering  at  Bendix 
Brake  Co. 

WPI  graduates  were  responsible 
for  innovations  in  a  number  of  auto- 
motive components.  Selden  T. 
Williams  '16  invented  the  "snap- 
in"  valve  that  is  now  used  in  many 
tubeless  tires.  Frederick  A.  Farrar 
'31,  founder  of  a  Keene,  N.H., 
company  that  repaired  electric- 
motors,  is  credited  with  developing 
the  first  dimmer  for  car  headlights. 
As  an  engineer  with  the  Haynes 
Motor  Co.,  Charles  Hollerith 
'17,  son  of  the  inventor  of  the  IBM 
punch  card,  was  responsible  for 
many  developments  in  automotive 
mufflers. 

During  his  43 -year  career  at 
Pittsburgh  Plate  Glass,  Russell  G. 
Whittemore  '27  was  instrumental 
in  the  development  of  laminated 
safety  glass,  an  invention  that  led  to 
modern  laminated  glass  windshields. 
During  World  War  II,  he  was  a 
consultant  to  the  military  on  the 
glass  needs  of  the  aircraft  industry 
and  was  consulted  by  Howard 
Hughes  during  the  construction  of 
his  famous  flying  boat,  Spruce  Goose. 
After  the  assassination  of  President 
Kennedy  in  1963,  Whittemore  ad- 
vised the  government  on  the  safety 
glass  requirements  of  a  new  presi- 
dential limousine. 

Burton  W.  Marsh  '20  wasn't 
interested  in  cars,  themselves,  but  in 
the  safety  of  the  people  who  drove 
them  and  who  shared  the  streets 
with  them.  Marsh  was  the  first  full- 
time  traffic  engineer  in  the  United 
States.  Having  achieved  success  as  a 
city  planner,  he  attracted  the  inter- 
est of  the  mayor  of  Pittsburgh,  who 
appointed  him  head  of  the  city's 
new  Bureau  of  Traffic  Relief  in 
1924.  He  was  so  successful,  Phila- 
delphia lured  him  away  to  tackle  its 
traffic  mess  in  1930. 

Three  years  later,  Marsh  became 
director  of  traffic  engineering  and 
safety  for  the  American  Automobile 
Association,  where  he  pioneered  an 
emphasis  on  pedestrian  safety  that 
contributed  to  a  major  reduction  in 
pedestrian  fatalities  between  1937  to 
1957 — despite  a  jump  in  the  number 
of  cars  on  the  road.  He  also  helped 
establish  the  AAA's  school  safety 
patrol  and  assisted  in  setting  up  dri- 
ver education  programs  in  the 
nation's  elementary  and  secondary 
schools.  From  1967  to  1970,  he  was 
executive  director  of  the  Institute  of 
Transportation  Engineers,  an  orga- 
nization he  helped  found.  In  1970 
the  ITE  created  the  Burton  W. 
Marsh  Distinguished  Service  Award, 
its  highest  honor. 


ENLIGHTENING 
NEW 

Generations 

High  school  teacher,  college 
professor,  university  dean — 
WPI  graduates  have  held 
these  and  many  other  positions  in 
the  field  of  education.  They  have 
also  been  associated  with  important 
developments  in  educational  tech- 
niques and  technology.  Charles  A. 
Bennett,  Class  of  1886,  for  exam- 
ple, was  an  important  figure  in  the 
manual  training  movement  of  the 
late  19th  century,  which  sought  to 
teach  young  people  practical  skills 
such  as  woodworking  and  metal- 
working.  He  taught  high  school  in 
Minnesota  before  joining  the  faculty 
of  Teachers  College  at  Columbia 
University  and,  later,  Bradley  Poly- 
technic Institute.  He  was  the  first 
editor  of  the  journals  Manual  Train- 
ing and  Vocational  Education  and 
founded  the  Manual  Arts  Press  in 
Peoria,  which  published  these  and 
other  journals  and  books.  For  a 
time,  he  was  president  of  the  Manu- 
al  Training  Department  of  the 
National  Education  Association. 

Like  Bennett,  James  E.  Smith 
'06  believed  in  giving  young  people 
the  skills  they  needed  to  build  suc- 
cessful careers.  That  belief  led  him 
to  establish  one  of  the  nation's  earli- 
est and  most  successful  study-at- 
home  programs,  the  National  Radio 
Institute.  As  a  high  school  teacher  in 
the  state  of  Washington,  he  built  a 
receiving  station  and  began  teaching 
his  students  about  the  exciting  new 
field  of  wireless  communications. 

He  decided  to  turn  his  hobby 
into  a  business.  The  National  Radio 
Institute  was  the  first  correspon- 
dence school  to  teach  through 
hands-on  experiments  using  profes- 
sional tools,  and  it  was  the  first  to 
teach  TV  repair  (students  built  their 
own  operating  televisions  as  early  as 
1932).  By  the  time  of  Smith's  death 
in  1973,  his  school  had  taught  more 
than  a  million  students  around  the 
world.  In  1968,  the  National  Radio 
Institute  became  a  division  of 
McGraw-Hill,  where  as  NRI 
Schools,  it  is  still  a  leader  in  distance 
education. 

Tsinghua  University  is  China's 
top  engineering  school,  and  also  one 
of  its  most  distinguished  educational 
institutions.  It  owes  that  status,  in 
large  part,  to  the  accomplishments 
of  Yi  Chi  Mei  '14,  who  led  the 
university  during  one  of  its  most 
challenging  periods.  Mei  was  one  of 
the  first  Chinese  students  to  study  in 
America  under  a  scholarship  pro- 


gram  created  when  the  United 
States  and  Great  Britain  chose  to 
return  some  of  the  funds  exacted 
from  China  after  the  Boxer  Rebel- 
lion. After  graduating  from  WPI,  he 
returned  to  China  to  teach  at  Tsing- 
hua University  and  became  pres- 
ident in  1931.  Under  his  leadership, 
the  university  nearly  doubled  its 
enrollment  and  it  established  an 
engineering  school.  The  Japanese 
invasion  of  China  in  1938  led  to 
several  harrowing  years  as  the  uni- 
versity was  forced  to  move  repeated- 
ly and  carry  out  its  programs  under 
constant  threat  of  bombing.  After 
World  War  II,  Mei  settled  for  a 
time  in  the  United  States.  In  1955, 
he  established  National  Tsinghua 
University  in  Taiwan  and  served  as 
its  first  president. 

Richard  K.  Irons  '27,  a  long- 
time faculty  member  at  the  Groton 
School  in  Massachusetts,  had  the 
distinction  of  being  WPI's  first 
Rhodes  Scholar.  Irons  tried  engi- 
neering for  a  while  after  graduating, 
but  decided  he  had  chosen  the 
wrong  profession.  He  earned  a 
bachelor's  degree  in  history  from 


10 


MMI 


'-■■ 
'-■-_■ 


Johns  Hopkins  University  in  1929, 
the  same  year  he  won  a  Rhodes 
Scholarship  to  study  at  Oxford 
University.  He  taught  history  at 
Groton  for  42  years,  inspiring  such 
future  leaders  as  McGeorge  Bundy, 
national  security  advisor  under 
President  Kennedy,  his  brother 
William  Bundy,  assistant  secretary 
of  state  and  director  of  the  CIA,  and 
Endicott  Peabody,  a  Massachusetts 
governor. 


M 


ost  WPI  graduates  know  that 
Robert  H.  Goddard  '08 

was  the  father  of  space  flight. 
But  the  history  of  aviation  is  also 
replete  with  the  accomplishments  of 
the  University's  alumni.  Among  the 
first  to  enter  the  field  was  George 
F.  Myers,  Class  of  1888,  who  is 
credited  with  making  one  of  the 
earliest  attempts  at  vertical  flight.  A 
patent  attorney  and  a  prolific  inven- 
tor, he  held  numerous  aviation- 


related  patents.  His  first  application 
for  a  helicopter  patent  was  denied, 
but  the  machine,  dubbed  the  "Fly- 
ing Doughnut,"  helped  inspire  later 
developments  in  vertical-horizontal 
flight.  In  1904,  Myers  built  a  heli- 
copter that  rose  six  inches  off  the 
ground.  In  1926,  two  years  after  the 
first  free  flight  of  a  helicopter,  he 
built  a  machine  that  traveled  1,000 
feet  at  an  altitude  of  10  feet.  Myers 
also  built  and  flew  his  own  airplane 
six  years  after  the  Wright  brothers' 
historic  flight. 

An  invention  by  Louis  W. 
Rawson,  Class  of  1893,  also  has  a 
place  in  the  history  of  the  heli- 
copter. Rawson  became  superinten- 
dent of  \\TFs  Washburn  Shops  in 
1903  and  retired  30  years  later.  In 
the  late  1920s  he  invented  what 
came  to  be  known  as  the  Rawson 
Coupling,  which  permitted  a  motor 
to  come  up  to  speed  before  a  load 
was  applied.  The  coupling  found 
many  applications  over  the  years;  in 
1942,  J.  Adam  Holbrook  '38  mod- 
ified it  for  use  in  helicopters  made 
by  Sikorsky  Aircraft  and  Kaman 
Corp. 


The  initial  design  lor  such  well- 
known  helicopters  ;is  the  Black 
I  lawk,  Super  Stallion  and  S-76  was 
developed  under  the  direction  of 
Harry  T.Jensen  '33,  who  retired 
in  1978  as  vice  president  for  engi- 
neering at  Sikorsky.  I  le  was  a  fellow 
of  the  Royal  Aeronautical  SocietJ  of 
Great  Britain  and  .in  honorary  fel- 
low of  the  American  Helicopter 
Society,  which  created  the  Harry  T. 
Jensen  Award  to  recognize  out- 
standing advances  in  helicopter  safe- 
ty,  reliability  and  maintainability. 

I  wo  alumni  were  associated 
with  pioneering  aircraft  that  made 
famous  ocean  crossings.  Karl 
Schmidt  '13  was  a  lieutenant  in  the 
Navy  in  1924  when  he  supervised 
the  construction  of  the  ZR-3,  one  of 
the  great  dirigibles  built  for  the 
United  States  by  the  Zeppelin  Co. 
in  Germany  as  part  of  the  World 
War  I  reparations  program.  Once 
called  "the  noblest  Zeppelin  of  them 
all,"  the  airship  was  later  christened 
the  Los  Angeles.  Schmidt  was  one  of 
six  Americans  aboard  the  craft  for  its 
initial  flight  and  was  also  on  board 
when  it  made  its  maiden  voyage 
across  the  Atlantic  to  Lakehurst, 
N.J.  George  W.  Smith  Jr.  '15 
helped  design  the  NC-4,  the  first 
airplane  to  cross  the  Atlantic  Ocean. 
In  1919,  eight  years  before  Charles 
Lindbergh's  well-known  solo  flight, 
a  three-man  Navy  crew  flew  the 
NC-4,  a  modified  Curtiss  flying 
boat,  from  Rockaway,  N.Y.,  to  Ply- 
mouth, England.  The  3,925-mile 
trip  took  57  hours.  Smith,  a  com- 
missioned officer  in  the  Naval 
Reserve,  worked  on  the  NC-4  while 
he  was  chief  of  engineering  at  the 
Naval  Aircraft  Factory  in  Phila- 
delphia. 

Making  better  and  more  efficient 
motors  for  airplanes  was  the  passion 
of  Arthur  Nutt  '16,  a  member  of 
the  Aviation  Pioneers  Hall  of  Fame. 
Nutt  joined  Curtiss  Aeroplane  & 
Motor  Co.  in  Buffalo  after  gradu- 
ation and  in  1920  the  company 
named  him  its  chief  motor  engineer. 
He  designed  engines  that  powered 
the  planes  that  won  the  coveted 
Pulitzer  Trophy  in  1921  and  1922, 
and  his  engines  were  on  the  planes 
that  set  every  world  speed  record  tor 
more  than  a  decade  beginning  in  the 
1920s.  He  later  oversaw  the  devel- 
opment of  the  world-famous  Whirl- 
wind  and  Cyclone  engines  that  at 
one  time  powered  90  percent  of  the 
world's  commercial  aircraft. 

Arthur  E.  Smith  '33  also  made 
a  name  for  himself  in  aircraft  engine 
research.  He  joined  the  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Division  of  United 
Aircraft  in  1935  as  a  test  engineer. 


11 


nmnmn.uL 


KmW'imiMMHIM 


WPI  graduates  have  been 
involved  in  all  aspects  of 
power  generation  and  distri- 
bution, below,  and  have 
designed  and  constructed  all 
manner  of  public  works, 
from  roads,  opposite,  to 
aqueducts  and  dams. 


Flinn 


Eddy 


During  World  War  II,  as  chief  engi- 
neer at  a  Pratt  &  Whitney  plant  in 
Kansas  City,  Mo.,  he  made  numer- 
ous improvements  in  the  design  of 
Pratt  &  Whitney  engines  and  did 
pioneering  work  on  the  use  of  water 
injection  to  increase  engine  power 
production.  By  1949,  he  was  chief 
engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney.  A 
fellow  of  the  American  Institute  of 
Aeronautics  and  Astronautics,  he 
would  ultimately  become  president 
of  Pratt  &  Whitney  and  president 
and  chairman  of  United  Aircraft 
(now  United  Technologies). 

The  field  of  aviation  research  is 
indebted  to  Henry  J. E.  Reid  '19, 
who  directed  the  Langley  Research 
Center  in  Virginia,  one  of  the 
world's  best-known  aeronautical 
research  centers.  Reid  joined  Lang- 
ley  in  1921,  just  a  few  years  after  the 
National  Advisory  Committee  on 
Aeronautics,  the  forerunner  of 
NASA,  created  the  lab.  He  worked 
initially  on  the  design  and  improve- 
ment of  flight  research  instruments, 
and  was  co-inventor  of  the  V-G 
recorder,  used  widely  to  obtain  data 


on  velocities  and  inertial  loads. 
Under  his  direction,  the  lab  grew 
considerably  in  size  and  reputation. 
Reid,  himself,  became  a  pioneer  in 
wind  tunnel  design  and  operation 
and  a  leading  authority  on  balances 
for  measuring  forces  on  wind  tunnel 
models. 

As  chief  of  the  equipment  de- 
velopment section  of  Teleregister 
Corporation's  engineering  division, 
George  L.  Bush  '27  developed  a 
photoelectric  transmitting  type- 
writer, the  Transmityper,  that  was 
used  in  air  traffic  control.  It  let  radio 
operators  and  controllers  transmit 
flight  data  for  display  on  electronic 
flight  boards.  Bush  was  also  instru- 
mental in  the  development  of  the 
original  display  boards  for  the  New 
York  Stock  Exchange  and  the  tally 
boards  used  in  the  presidential  elec- 
tion of  1954. 

A  naval  aviator  during  World 
War  I,  Paul  K.  Guillow  '20  devel- 
oped a  fascination  for  airplanes  and 
aviation  history  that  stayed  with  him 
after  he  left  the  service.  That  interest 
led  him  to  making  model  airplanes,  a 
hobby  that  became  a  business  when 
he  started  manufacturing  and  selling 
model  plane  kits  on  a  small  scale.  In 
time,  his  company,  Nucraft  Toys  in 
Wakefield,  Mass.,  became  one  of  the 
largest  and  best-known  model  air- 
plane makers  in  the  country. 


POWERING  THE 
NATION 

The  University  has  produced 
many  graduates  who,  through 
their  inventions  and  insights, 
have  helped  shape  the  electric  pow- 
er industry.  One  of  the  earliest  was 
Charles  S.  Cook,  Class  of  1885, 
who  in  1892  laid  out  and  sold  the 
first  long-distance  electric  transmis- 
sion system  in  the  country — a  28- 
mile,  10,000-volt  line  connecting 
Pomona  and  San  Bernardino,  Calif. 
The  following  year  he  designed  the 
power  plant  for  the  World's 
Colombian  Exposition  in  Chicago 
for  George  Westinghouse.  He  ulti- 
mately became  manager  of  West- 
inghouse's  Railway  and  Lighting 
Department  in  East  Pittsburgh, 
before  leaving  in  1917  to  direct  the 
Duquesne  Light  Co.  in  Pittsburgh. 

The  Charles  A.  Coffin  Award  is 

the  highest  honor  General  Electric 

bestows  on  its  employees.  Arvid  E. 

1  Anderson  '20  won  the  honor  in 

■   1941  for  his  "unusual  foresight  in 

s  anticipating  new  and  distinctive 

3  trends  in  design."  As  a  longtime 


designer  in  the  GE  Swichgear 
Department,  he  was  active  in  the 
design  of  high-voltage  switches  and 
relays  used  in  electric  transmission 
stations  and  lines,  protective  systems, 
power  switchgear,  capacitor  banks 
and  manufacturing  methods.  As 
manager  of  General  Electric's  metal- 
lurgical laboratory  for  many  years, 
Weston  Morrill  '23  was  credited 
with  dramatically  reducing  the  cost 
of  producing  and  transmitting  elec- 
tric power.  An  internationally  known 
chemist  and  engineer,  he  played  a 
key  role  in  developing  metals  used  in 
the  cores  of  large  GE  transformers. 

The  public  power  movement  in 
the  United  States  began  in  the  late 
19th  century  to  promote  the  electri- 
fication of  rural  areas.  Its  pioneers 
included  Francis  H.  King  '28, 
who  served  as  president  of  the 
American  Public  Power  Association 
in  the  1960s  and  was  instrumental  in 
the  formation  of  public  power  orga- 
nizations in  New  England.  He  was 
an  advisor  to  Presidents  Kennedy 
and  Johnson  and  to  many  U.S.  sena- 
tors and  congressmen.  Upon  his 
retirement  after  46  years  as  manager 
of  the  Holyoke,  Mass.,  Gas  and 
Electric  Department,  it  was  said, 
"he  ranks  as  perhaps  the  single  most 
distinguished  figure  in  the  history  of 
public  power." 

Halbert  E.  Pierce  Jr.  '29, 
another  electric  power  pioneer 
based  in  New  England,  was  an 
expert  on  the  reliability  of  intercon- 
nected power  systems.  As  the  first 
director  of  NEPLAN,  the  planning 
arm  of  the  New  England  Power 
Pool,  he  studied  reliability  issues 
associated  with  linking  power  sys- 
tems in  New  England  and  New 
York.  After  his  retirement  in  1972, 
he  served  on  the  National  Electric 
Reliability  Commission  for  five 
years,  running  reliability  studies  for 
the  entire  nation. 

James  A.  Lane  '36  was  one  of 
the  first  power  engineers  in  the 
United  States  to  recognize  the  com- 
mercial potential  of  nuclear  energy. 
A  design  engineer  with  the  Manhat- 
tan Project,  he  became  a  top  staff 
member  at  the  Oak  Ridge  National 
Laboratory  in  Tennessee  and  was 
largely  responsible  for  establishing 
the  lab  as  a  center  for  nuclear 
research  after  the  war.  For  a  time, 
he  was  chief  of  the  reactor  evalua- 
tion staff  at  the  Atomic  Energy 
Commission.  He  returned  to  Oak 
Ridge  in  1953  as  director  of  the 
Reactor  Experimental  Engineering 
Division  and  led  teams  that  devel- 
oped nuclear  programs  in  Brazil, 
Egypt,  Israel  and  Pakistan. 


1  2     SPRING  1 


where  the 
rubber  me1 

THE  ROAD 


As  more  and  more  Americans 
purchased  automobiles,  the 
need  arose  for  a  network  of 
roads  for  them  to  travel  on.  The 
construction  of  roads  and  highways 
was  just  one  facet  of  an  era  of  public 
works  that  followed  WPI's  found- 
ing, a  time  when  the  nation  sought 
to  tame  the  North  American  conti- 
nent. It  was  also  a  period  that  saw 
the  country  awaken  to  the  need  for  a 
new  field  of  engineering  to  bring 
potable  water  to  cities  and  towns 
and  safely  dispose  of  their  wastes. 

Building  and  maintaining  roads 
was  the  preoccupation  of  Erwin  O. 
Hathaway,  Class  of  1889.  Hath- 
away was  one  of  the  first  federal 
highway  engineers.  He  joined  the 
federal  Office  of  Public  Roads  in 
1913  as  a  senior  highway  engineer 
and  worked  in  North  and  South 
Dakota,  Minnesota  and  Wisconsin. 
William  H.  Rhodes  '10  also  worked 
for  the  Office  of  Public  Roads,  but 
left  to  become  an  engineer  for  the 
newly  formed  State  Highway 
Department  in  Louisiana,  where  he 
organized  the  nation's  first  state 
highway  maintenance  department. 


Just  as  roads  were  needed  to  take 
drivers  where  they  wanted  to  go, 
new  distribution  systems  were  need- 
ed to  deliver  clean  water  to  thirsty 
cities.  Alfred  D.  Flinn,  Class  of 
1893,  earned  a  national  reputation 
as  the  man  behind  one  of  the  great- 
est water  supply  projects  of  all  time. 
As  deputy  chief  engineer  for  the 
Board  of  Water  Supply  for  the  City 
of  New  York,  he  directed  the  con- 
struction of  the  Catskill  Aqueduct 
(below),  a  monumental  project  that 
became  the  primary  water  supply  for 


r"    ..   _ 


the  city.  Stretching  from  the 
Catskill  Mountains  in  upper  New 
York  to  Manhattan,  a  distance  of 
120  miles  (nearly  three  times  the 
length  of  the  Panama  Canal),  the 
aqueduct  passes  through  mountains 
and  under  rivers,  delivering  500  mil- 
lion gallons  of  water  a  day. 

After  the  project  was  completed, 
Flinn  became  secretary  of  the  newly 
formed  United  Engineering  Society, 
which  represented  the  major  engi- 
neering associations.  In  1922  he  was 
named  chairman  of  the  Division  of 
Engineering  at  the  National  Re- 
search Council  and  director  of  the 
new  Engineering  Foundation.  He 
received  an  honorary  degree  during 
the  500th  anniversary  celebration  of 
the  University  of  Louvain  in  Bel- 
gium in  1927  and  the  following  year 
represented  American  engineers  at 
the  dedication  of  the  rebuilt  Lou- 
vain Library  (the  original  had  been 
destroyed  during  World  War  I). 
The  library  contained  a  number  of 
memorials  to  the  American  engi- 
neers who  helped  rebuild  it.  One  of 
its  entrance  pillars  was  inscribed 
"Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute." 


Sanitation  was  just  as  important 
as  potable  water  to  growing  urban 
areas.  Among  its  pioneers  was 
Harrison  P.  Eddy,  Class  of 
1891,  best  known  as  co-founder  of 
the  internationally  recognized  engi- 
neering firm  Metcalf  &  Eddy.  WPI 
civil  engineering  professor  Leonard 
P.  Kinnicutt,  himself  a  well-known 
figure  in  sanitation,  kindled  Eddy's 
interest  in  the  field.  Eddy  did  his 
senior  thesis  on  the  Worcester 
sewage  treatment  plant,  which  Kin- 
nicutt designed,  and  supervised  the 
plant  and  the  city  sewage  system 
before  joining  with  Leonard  Met- 
calf to  create  a  consulting  practice. 
Eddy  became  senior  partner  when 
Metcalf  died  in  1926  and  was 
involved  in  problems  relating  to 
sewerage,  water  supply  and  drain- 
age in  cities  all  over  the  country. 
With  Metcalf,  he  wrote  American 
Sewerage  Practice,  a  mainstay  in  the 
field  for  decades.  For  a  time,  he  was 
president  of  the  American  Society 
of  Civil  Engineers,  which  in  1928 
awarded  him  the  Rudolph  Hering 
Medal  for  his  contributions  to  san- 
itary engineering. 


5NAL     13 


.M>nu*u,iiun,unjn«uMmxgja«m>iLiah 


vKmmuvtm 


Recent  issues  of  the  Journal  have 
related  the  stories  of  two  men 
who  were  part  of  the  great  age 
of  exploration  and  scientific  discov- 
ery that  stretched  from  the  time  of 
WPI's  beginnings  well  into  the 
20th  century.  You  can  read  about 
Edward  H.  Thompson,  Class  of 
1878,  who  explored  the  Mayan 
ruins  in  the  Yucatan  Peninsula,  in 
the  Spring  1995  Journal.  The  story 
of  Albert  H.  Bumstead,  Class  of 
1898,  was  told  in  the  Summer  1994 
issue.  Bumstead,  chief  cartographer 
for  the  National  Geographic  Soci- 
ety, also  developed  the  sun  compass 
that  kept  Admiral  Richard  E.  Byrd 
on  target  on  his  famous  flight  over 
the  North  Pole. 

Byrd  took  another  piece  of  tech- 
nology developed  by  a  WPI  alum- 
nus on  that  trans-Arctic  adventure. 
It  was  the  Osiso,  a  camera-sized 
osillograph  invented  by  Joseph  W. 
Legg  '15,  which  Byrd  used  to  study 
dead  areas  that  interfere  with  radio 
transmissions.  Legg  was  a  researcher 
at  Westinghouse  Engineering  and 
Manufacturing  Co.  when  he  invent- 
ed the  six-element  portable  osillo- 
graph, which  was  used  to  study 
machinery,  monitor  the  action  of 
the  heart,  locate  oil  fields,  and  help 
the  deaf  learn  to  speak.  Legg  also 
invented  a  high-speed  camera  that 
could  take  3,000  frames  a  second. 

Like  Admiral  Byrd,  William  H. 
Hobbs,  Class  of  1883,  was 
attracted  to  the  Earth's  frozen 
realms.  A  professor  of  geology  at  the 
Lmiversity  of  Wisconsin  and  head  of 
the  university's  Geology  Depart- 
ment, Hobbs,  a  well-known  expert 
on  volcanoes,  earthquakes  and  glaci- 
ers, was  considered  one  of  the 
world's  foremost  authorities  on 
Greenland,  having  led  three  expedi- 
tions there  in  the  late  1920s  to  study 
meteorology  and  glaciers.  A  glacier 
in  Antarctica  bears  his  name  in 
recognition  of  his  contributions  to 
geology.  The  maps  he  made  of 
Greenland  helped  Charles  Lind- 
bergh lay  out  the  most  favorable 
routes  for  Pan  Am  to  fly  on  its  early 
trans-Atlantic  flights. 

During  World  War  I  Hobbs 
campaigned  for  preparedness  among 
the  allied  nations,  work  that  won 
him  a  decoration  from  the  French 
government.  After  the  war,  he  wrote 
The  World  War  and  Its  Consequences, 
which  was  published  with  a  fore- 
word by  Theodore  Roosevelt.  He 
was  also  the  author  of  a  biography 
of  Robert  E.  Peary,  the  first  person 
to  reach  the  North  Pole.  In  the  early 
1920s,  he  led  an  around-the-world 
expedition  that  was  partly  devoted 


BLAZING 

New  Trails 


to  the  study  of  oceanic 
mountain  formations  in  the 
Dutch  East  Indies.  The 
photos  he  took  and  the 
maps  he  made  of  islands  in 
the  Pacific  were  carried 
aboard  every  U.S.  warship 
in  the  Pacific  during  World 
War  II. 

Two  graduates  of  the 
1890s  turned  their  interest 
in  natural  history  into 
directorships  at  New  Eng- 
land museums.  Charles  A. 
Davis,  Class  of  1891,  pursued 
natural  history  as  an  avocation  and 
developed  a  national  reputation  as 
an  expert  on  entomology  and  con- 


|  '■•aaB^^.j-w 


Class  of  1896,  was  curator 
and  director  of  the  Worces- 
ter Natural  History  Muse- 
um, now  the  New  England 
Science  Center.  An  author- 
ity on  ornithology,  he  was 
considered  one  of  the  fore- 
most bird  artists  of  his  day. 
He  made  paintings  of  750 
species  of  North  American 
birds  and  included  them  in 
several  widely  read  books. 

Two  alumni  named 
Williams  made  their  mark 
chology  (the  study  of  shells).  In  in  the  field  of  chemistry.  John  W. 
1904,  he  was  elected  curator  of  the  Williams  '21  established  the 
Roger  Williams  Park  Museum  in  nation's  first  university  ultracen- 
Providence,  R.I.  Chester  A.  Reed,     trifuge  laboratory  at  the  University 


14 


BOH 


of  Wisconsin.  He  was  a  pioneer  in 
the  study  of  macromolecules  and 
developed  the  technique  for  remov- 
ing globulin  from  whole  blood, 
revolutionizing  the  field  of  immu- 
nology. A  member  of  the  National 
Academy  of  Sciences,  he  was  once 
honored  as  one  of  the  nation's  top 
10  chemists.  James  H.  Williams 
'29  was  one  of  the  developers  of  sul- 
pha drugs  and  Aureomycin  (the 
name  he  gave  the  antibiotic  chlorte- 
tracycline),  among  other  lifesaving 
products.  After  working  in  the 
patent  department  of  Allied  Chemi- 
cal Corp.,  he  joined  the  research 
laboratories  of  American  Cyanamid 
Co.  lie  later  transferred  to  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid's  Lederle  Laborato- 
ries, where  he  eventually  became 
director  of  research.  In  1945,  he  was 
one  of  the  200  top  U.S.  scientists 
chosen  by  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff 
to  study  conditions  in  the  pharma- 
ceutical and  chemical  industries  in 
Europe  after  World  War  II. 


in  service  to 
Their  Country 


eral  to  come  out  of  retirement  to  be 
his  personal  representative.  Lowe 
reported  to  Truman  on  military 
operations,  a  task  that  frequently 
took  him  to  the  front  lines.  For  his 
bravery,  he  received  the  Distm 
guished  Service  Cross.  His  citation 
read,  in  part,  "Accepting  personal 
hazards  tar  beyond  the  requirements 
of  his  mission,  he  devoted  long  peri- 
ods of  time  with  the  forward  ele- 
ments of  our  major  units  in  combat 
in  order  that  he  might  better 
observe  and  evaluate  the  battle 
efficiency  of  the  United  States 
Command."  General  Douglas 
MacArthur  bestowed  the  honor  on 
Lowe  in  April  1951  as  one  of  his  last 


Army  across  France  and  into  Ger- 
many, filming  and  conferring  with 
U.S.  Cenerals  Lisenhower,  Patton 
and  Bradley,  British  Field  Marshal 
Montgomery,  and  French  General 
DeGaulle.  On  M.n  ",  1945,  Lawton 
was  present  at  the  unconditional  sur- 
render of  the  German  forces  in  a 
technical  school  in  Reims,  Frame, 
and  took  the  only  color  photographs 
of  the  event.  Two  months  later,  he 
"sneaked  in"  to  the  Potsdam  Con- 
ference and  took  a  photograph  of 
Harry  Truman,  Winston  Churchill 
and  Joseph  Stalin  that  has  been 
printed  in  a  number  of  publications. 

After  the  war,  Lawton  again 
found  himself  caught  up  in  the 


w 


PI  alumni  have  served  in 
virtually  every  branch  anc 
division  of  the  military  and 
have  fought  in  every  war  since  WPI 
opened  its  doors.  Several  graduates 
have  gone  on  to  earn  high  distinc- 
tion in  uniform.  Percy  E.  Barbour, 
Class  of  1896,  a  prominent  mining 
engineer  and  metallurgist,  also  had  a 
distinguished  career  as  a  reserve  mil- 
itary officer.  Barbour  served  in  the 
New  York  National  Guard,  Regi- 
ment of  Engineers,  on  the  Mexican 
border  in  1916-17,  and  then  became 
associate  organizer  and  first  depart- 
ment supervisor  of  the  New  York 
State  Troopers.  After  that  assign- 
ment, he  held  a  number  of  posts 
with  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers 
before  being  promoted  to  colonel  in 
the  Army  reserves.  In  1928,  he 
received  the  Gold  Medal  for  distin- 
guished service  from  the  American 
Society  of  Military  Engineers. 

Among  the  ranks  of  WPI  grad- 
uates are  two  distinguished  U.S. 
Army  generals.  Major  General 
Frank  E.  Lowe  '08  was  President 
Harry  Truman's  "eyes  and  ears"  in 
Korea  during  the  Korean  War. 
Lowe  first  worked  with  Truman 
during  World  War  II,  wrhen  Lowe 
was  executive  officer  assigned  to  the 
Senate  War  Investigating  Commit- 
tee, chaired  by  the  then  senator. 
When  the  Korean  War  broke  out, 
Truman  asked  the  65 -year-old  gen- 


general  orders  before  President 
Truman  relieved  him  of  his  com- 
mand in  Korea. 

As  head  of  the  Army  Pictorial 
Service,  Major  General  Kirke  B. 
Lawton  '17  chronicled  some  of  the 
most  important  moments  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  20th  century.  He  was 
assigned  to  the  Supreme  Headquar- 
ters of  the  Allied  Forces  in  Europe 
during  World  War  II  and  coordinat- 
ed all  ground  combat  photographv 
of  U.S.  troops.  Starting  1 2  days  after 
D-Dav,  he  followed  the  .American 


sweep  of  major  events.  He  was 
named  commander  of  the  Signal 
Corps  Center  at  Fort  Monmouth, 
N.J.,  where  he  instituted  a  loyalty 
check  system  for  civilian  employees. 
Senator  Joseph  McCarthy  praised 
the  system  during  the  infamous 
Army-McCarthy  hearings.  Later,  in 
Nevada,  Lawton  filmed  post-war 
atomic  bomb  tests.  His  military  ser- 
vice earned  him  the  LLS.  Legion  of 
Merit,  three  battle  service  stars,  the 
Victory  Medal,  and  Czechoslo- 
\akia's  Medal  of  Merit,  First  Class. 


I 
I 


Hobbs 


7    i  * 


Barbour 


Admiral  Richard  Byrd 
explored  Antarctica  by  ship, 
opposite,  top,  and  flew  a 
plane  over  the  North  Pole. 
On  board  that  plane  was 
the  Osiso,  opposite,  bottom, 
an  instrument  designed  by 
Joseph  Legg.  Left,  Major 
General  Frank  Lowe  on 
the  front  lines  in  Korea. 


15 


mniMKiimiwmiwiMW 


inninw.LumWiiiwnnmi>HHr,niwftHniamrtiTni 


wnmimjimMM 


Making  Things 
Grow 

One  of  the  earliest  WPI  gradu- 
ates to  devote  his  life's  work  to 
agriculture  was  Henry  P. 
Armsby,  a  member  of  WPI's  first 
graduating  class,  the  Class  of  1871. 
Years  later,  he  also  had  the  distinc- 
tion of  earning  WPI's  first  honorary 
degree.  Armsby  helped  establish  the 
Connecticut  Experimental  Station 
and  taught  at  the  Storrs  Agricultural 
School  (later  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut) before  directing  a  new  agri- 
cultural experiment  station  at  the 
University  of  Wisconsin.  It  was 
there  that  he  became  interested  in 
the  new  science  of  animal  nutrition 
and  developed  tables  of  feeding  stan- 
dards based  on  experimentation.  In 
1887,  he  joined  Pennsylvania  State 
University,  where  he  built  a  respira- 
tion calorimeter  to  study  large  ani- 
mals. With  it,  he  showed  that  it  was 
wasteful  to  feed  animals  agricultural 
products  that  could  be  consumed  by 
humans.  He  published  Principles  of 
Annual  Nutrition,  a  classic  reference 
for  researchers  and  farmers. 

Nathan  A.  Cobb,  Class  of 
1881,  is  credited  with  classifying 
more  than  1,000  new  species  of 
plants  and  animals  around  the 
world.  He  began  his  career  in  Aus- 
tralia, where  he  was  a  professor  of 
biology  at  Sydney  University.  He 
later  became  the  chief  scientific  offi- 
cer and  pathologist  for  the  Aus- 
tralian Department  of  Agriculture, 
where  he  made  important  discover- 
ies about  tapeworms,  a  killer  of 
sheep.  He  ultimately  returned  to  the 
United  States  to  work  in  the  Bureau 
of  Plant  Industry  in  the  U.S. 
Department  of  Agriculture.  Later, 
as  chief  nemotologist,  he  made 
many  new  discoveries  about  nema- 
todes, which  are  destructive  to  many 
agricultural  crops.  He  received  a 
special  medal  from  the  National 
Cotton  Manufacturers  Association 
for  his  development  of  methods 
for  determining  the  properties  and 
value  of  cotton. 

Elmer  C.  Rice,  Class  of 
1890,  began  his  career  as  a  newspa- 
per reporter  for  the  Boston  Herald. 
But  after  interviewing  a  poultry 
farmer  and  discovering  that  there 
was  a  ready  market  for  squabs,  he 
abandoned  daily  journalism  and 
began  publishing  pamphlets  on  the 
care  and  breeding  of  squabs.  Even- 
tually, he  decided  to  try  his  hand  at 
poultry  farming.  Finding  it  difficult 
to  meet  the  demand  for  the  young 
birds,  he  began  importing  squabs; 


when  World  War  I  cut  off  his  sup- 
ply, he  found  a  fast-breeding  stock 
in  New  Jersey  and  watched  his  busi- 
ness grow.  In  time  he  became  the 
undisputed  leader  in  the  field. 

Anyone  familiar  with  farm 
equipment  knows  the  name  John 
Deere.  Theo  Brown,  Class  of 
1901,  was  responsible  for  many  of 
the  innovations  introduced  by 
Deere  in  the  first  half  of  the  20th 
century.  Brown  began  his  career 
with  Richardson  Manufacturing  Co. 
as  an  inventor  of  agricultural  equip- 
ment and  joined  John  Deere  in 
1911.  He  was  ultimately  responsible 
for  nearly  160  patents,  most  of  them 
for  Deere.  His  lifetime  achieve- 
ments won  him  the  Cyrus  H. 
McCormick  Medal  for  outstanding 


service  to  agricultural  engineering. 

Two  WPI  alumni  made  impor- 
tant contributions  to  the  textile 
industry.  Thaddeus  S.  Grimes, 
Class  of  1889,  was  named  a  "Mod- 
ern Pioneer  of  America"  by  the 
National  Association  of  Manufac- 
turers for  his  inventions  in  the  field 
of  cotton  ginning,  which  included 
an  automatic  lift  for  the  cotton 
press.  Charles  F.  Goldthwait  '09 
was  one  of  the  nation's  premier  tex- 
tile chemists.  Working  in  industry, 
government  and  academia,  he  stud- 
ied virtually  every  manmade  and 
natural  fiber.  His  inventions  includ- 
ed a  stretch  cotton  fabric  and  the 
differential  dye  test  of  maturation 
and  processing  quality  of  cotton 
fiber  in  the  boll. 


For  a  number  of  WPI  students,  a 
preparation  in  science  or  engi- 
neering became  the  foundation 
for  a  career  in  law.  One  WPI  attor- 
ney went  on  to  play  a  pivotal  role  in 
one  of  the  most  infamous  legal  cases 
of  the  20th  century — the  trial  of 
Sacco  and  Vanzetti.  William  G. 
Thompson,  Class  of  1884,  left 
WPI  early  when  his  father,  Charles 
O.  Thompson,  resigned  his  post  as 
WPI's  first  president  to  become  the 
first  president  of  Rose  Polytechnic 
Institute.  William  Thompson  start- 
ed a  legal  practice  in  Boston  and  for 
a  time  was  an  assistant  U.S.  attor- 
ney. He  later  joined  the  firm  of 
Thomas,  Spring  &  Mears  as  a  senior 
partner,  developing  a  reputation  as 
one  of  the  city's  best  legal  minds. 

In  1921,  Italian  immigrants  and 
radicals  Nicola  Sacco  and  Bartolo- 
meo  Vanzetti  were  convicted  of  the 
murder  of  a  paymaster  in  South 
Braintree,  Mass.  When  the  judge 
denied  them  a  new  trial,  Sacco  and 
Vanzetti  became  discouraged  by  the 
performance  of  their  defense  attor- 
ney and  asked  Thompson  to  take 
over.  Offended  by  what  he  and  oth- 
ers saw  as  improprieties  in  the  con- 
duct of  the  trial  and  convinced  of  his 
clients'  innocence,  he  uncovered 
new  evidence  and  mounted  appeals 
that  ultimately  took  the  case  to  the 
U.S.  Supreme  Court.  After  every 
legal  avenue  had  been  exhausted, 
Sacco  and  Vanzetti  were  executed  on 
Aug.  22,  1927.  Vanzetti  summoned 
Thompson  to  his  cell  that  night  to 
take  down  his  final  statement.  In  a 
1927  article  in  the  Atlantic,  future 
Supreme  Court  Justice  Felix  Frank- 
furter wrote  of  Thompson,  "The 
espousal  of  the  Sacco-Vanzetti  cause 
by  a  man  of  Mr.  Thompson's  profes- 
sional prestige  at  once  gave  it  a  new 
complexion  and  has  been  its  main- 
stay ever  since." 

Harold  B.  Whitmore  '21  be- 
gan his  law  career  soon  after  gradu- 
ation, joining  the  staff  of  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office  in  Washington.  He 
eventually  became  superintendent  of 
the  Examining  Corps,  the  highest 
career  post.  He  was  elected  a  fellow 
of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and 
Electronics  Engineers  and  of  the 
American  Association  for  the 
Advancement  of  Science,  and  he 
received  the  Gold  Medal,  the  high- 
est employee  honor  bestowed  by  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Commerce. 

Through  the  years,  WPI  gradu- 
ates have  served  their  towns,  cities, 
states  and  nation  as  elected  and 
appointed  officials.  One  of  the  most 
remarkable  stories  of  government 
service  concerns  two  members  of  the 


16 


mmmmmm 


wHHHmuia 


Class  of  1 890  who  were  elected  lieu- 
tenant governors  of  different  states 
within  a  two-year  span.  In  1904, 
Francis  W.  Treadway  was  elected 
to  the  House  of  Representatives  in 
Ohio,  where  he'd  started  a  law  prac- 
tice that  grew  to  become  one  of  the 
state's  largest.  Early  in  his  legislative 
career,  Treadway  caught  the  eye  of 
the  state's  Republican  leadership, 
which  in  1908  placed  his  name  in 
nomination  for  lieutenant  governor, 
a  post  he  won  by  a  wide  margin.  At 
the  end  of  his  term,  he  left  politics 
and  devoted  his  energies  to  business. 
He  was  instrumental  in  starting 
WPI's  Alumni  Fund  and  was  chosen 
its  first  honorary  chairman.  After  his 
death,  WPI  named  the  principal 
account  of  the  fund  in  his  honor. 

The  political  career  of  Everett 
J.  Lake  didn't  stop  at  the  Connecti- 
cut lieutenant  governor's  chair, 
which  he  won  in  1906.  Having 
served  as  a  state  representative,  state 
senator  and  lieutenant  governor 
between  1901  and  1909,  he  lost  the 
Republican  nomination  for  gover- 
nor by  10  votes  in  a  bitterly  contest- 
ed 1910  race.  Discouraged,  he 
dropped  out  of  politics  for  a  time, 
but  agreed  to  attend  the  1920  con- 
vention to  nominate  a  friend.  When 
a  deadlock  loomed,  Lake's  name  was 
placed  in  the  running  and  he  won 
the  nomination  on  the  fourth  ballot 
when  his  friend  withdrew.  He 'went 
on  to  become  Connecticut's  67th 


governor,  winning  by  the  largest 
plurality  to  that  time.  His  two-year 
term  was  marked  by  disputes  with 
the  state  Republican  Party  leaders, 
and  as  a  result,  he  was  not  nominat- 
ed for  a  second  term. 

The  eight-year  political  career  of 
G.  Albert  Hill  T3  was  also  spent 
in  Connecticut,  where  he  was  a  pro- 
fessor of  chemistry  at  Wesleyan 
University  for  30  years.  In  1947, 
Connecticut  Governor  James  L. 
McConaughy,  a  former  Wesleyan 
president,  appointed  1  lill  state  high- 
way commissioner.  His  term  was 
marked  by  public  battles  with  two 
governors.  He  fought  with  Chester 
Bowles  over  the  commissioner's 
right  to  present  problems  directly  to 
the  state  legislature;  during  the  term 
of  John  Davis  Lodge,  he  defied  an 
edict  that  required  all  state  cars  to 
bear  special  markers,  believing  he 
could  be  more  effective  in  his  duties 
in  an  unmarked  vehicle.  In  1948 
Hill  received  the  President's  Certifi- 
cate of  Merit,  the  second  highest 
White  House  honor,  for  his  work 
on  aerial  nitjht  photography  during 
World  War  II. 

In  1923,  Frederick  M.  Feiker 
'04  began  a  memorable  foray  into 
national  government  when  Herbert 
Hoover,  then  secretary  of  com- 
merce, chose  him  to  be  his  assistant 
secretary  of  commerce.  After  that 
assignment,  Feiker  returned  to 
McGraw-Hill    Publishing    Co., 


where  he  was  vice  president  and  edi- 
torial director  of  the  company's  1 1 
publications.  Hoover  had  become 
acquainted  with  Feiker  when  the 
future  U.S.  president  was  the  head 
of  the  American  Engineering  Coun- 
cil of  the  Federated  American  Engi- 
neering Societies  and  Feiker  helped 
him  develop  a  plan  for  the  elimina- 
tion of  waste  in  industry.  Hoover 
later  asked  Feiker  to  be  vice  chair- 
man of  a  committee  that  studied 
national  distribution  systems.  After 
he  was  elected  president  in  1929, 
Hoover  tapped  Feiker  as  director 
of  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Foreign 
and  Domestic  Commerce.  A  decade 
later,  Feiker  joined  the  faculty  of 
George  Washington  University, 
where  he  was  named  dean  of  the 
school  of  engineering. 

In  1947,  U.S.  Secretary  of  State 
George  Marshall  proposed  an 
economic  development  plan  for 
war-ravaged  Europe.  Edmund  M. 
Flaherty  '11,  an  executive  with 
E.I.  Du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
was  chosen  to  head  the  chemical 
division  of  the  Marshall  Plan,  work- 
ing to  help  Europe  rebuild  its 
chemical  industry.  At  DuPont,  he 
was  one  of  a  small  group  of  chem- 
ists credited  with  inventing  Duco 
nitrocellulose  lacquer,  which 
reduced  the  time  needed  for  paint- 
ing cars  from  weeks  to  hours, 
removing  the  last  barrier  to  the 
mass  production  of  automobiles. 


; 


John  Deere  equipment,  oppo- 
site, is  a  familiar  site  on 
American  farms.  Theo  Brown 
was  Deere's  chief  designer 
for  many  years.  The  trial  of 
Nicola  Sacco,  left,  and  Bar- 
tolomeo  Vanzetti  was  a  noto- 
rious episode  in  American 
legal  history.  Attorney 
William  Thompson  took  their 
fight  for  justice  all  the  way 
to  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court. 


Treadway 


Lake 


Flaherty 


WPI  Jot 


17 


3TKTK 


Davis 


Watkins 


Haigis 


A  camera  operator  and 
sound  man  on  a  desert 
shoot,  right,  a  technician 
checking  telegraph  cables, 
opposite,  and  the  studio  of 
KDKA,  the  first  commercial 
radio  station,  above.  Like 
Henry  Davis,  who  author- 
ized the  establishment  of 
KDKA,  many  WPI  graduates 
have  helped  build  the  mod- 
ern age  of  information  and 
mass  media. 


ENTERTAINING 
THE  MASSES 

The  technical  and  entrepreneur- 
ial skills  of  WPI  graduates 
played  seminal  roles  in  the 
development  of  the  radio,  television 
and  film  industries  in  the  United 
States.  Perhaps  the  best  known 
among  this  distinguished  group  is 
A.  Atwater  Kent,  Class  of  1900, 
whose  company  made  one  of  the 
most  popular  radios  of  all  time. 
Today,  collectors  prize  Atwater 
Kent  radios  for  their  quality  and 
beauty.  Kent  left  WPI  before  grad- 
uating to  start  his  own 
business  making  elec- 
trical   equipment    and 
instruments.  He  became 
interested  in  electrical 
systems  for  the  emerging 
automotive  industry  and 
invented  the  Unisparker, 
an  ignition  system  that 
prevented  backfiring  and 
automatically  advanced 
or  retarded  the  spark  as 
the  needs  of  the  engine 
changed.  The  invention 
won  him  the  John  Scott 
Legacy  Medal  and  Pre- 
mium from  the  Franklin 
Institute  in  Philadelphia. 
He  began  manufacturing  radios 
after  World  War  I,  and  they  soon 
became  the  fastest  selling  receivers 
on  the  market.  He  was  the  first 
radio  producer  to  build  his  units  on 
an  assembly  line. 

Kent's  products  would  have  had 
little  attraction  for  consumers  were 
it  not  for  the  achievements  of 
Henry  P.  Davis,  Class  of  1880, 
who  is  considered  the  father  of  com- 
mercial broadcasting.  In  1920, 
Davis,  then  vice  president  for  engi- 
neering and  manufacturing  for 
Westinghouse,  became  impressed 
with  the  growing  interest  in  the 
entertainment  value  of  radio  broad- 
casting. In  particular,  he  noted  the 
popularity  ot  an  amateur  radio  sta- 
tion manned  by  Frank  Conrad,  assis- 
tant chief  engineer  at  Westinghouse. 
Seeing  the  commercial  potential  of 
this  new  media,  Davis  authorized 
Westinghouse  to  set  up  radio  station 
KDKA.  On  Nov.  2,  1920,  it  became 
the  world's  first  commercial  radio 
station.  Davis,  himself,  stood  before 
the  microphone  on  that  historic  day 
to  read  the  results  of  the  presidential 
elections.  A  visionary  and  a  skilled 
inventor  (he  earned  more  than  80 
patents),  Davis  continued  his  interest 
in  broadcasting  throughout  the 
remainder  of  his  career.  When  the 
National  Broadcasting  Company 


(NBC)  was  founded  in  1926,  he 
became  its  first  chairman,  a  post  he 
held  until  his  death  in  1931. 

Around  the  same  time  that  radio 
broadcasting  was  coming  into  its 
own,  another  technical  breakthrough 
was  adding  sound  to  motion  pic- 
tures. Early  in  his  career,  Lincoln 
Thompson  '21  was  an  engineer 
with  Bristol  Co.  in  Connecticut, 
where  he  helped  perfect  equipment 
that  produced  one  of  the  world's 
first  "talking  pictures,"  a  two-reel 
educational  film.  Later,  Thompson 
developed  the  first  practical  talking 
book  records  for  the  blind.  He  start- 
ed his  own  company,  Sound  Special- 


ties Inc.,  which  made  dictation 
machines,  one  of  which  was  used  by 
Winston  Churchill  to  dictate  his 
memoirs.  Hartley  C.  Humphrey 
'17  helped  pioneer  the  sound 
recording  for  the  first  feature  length 
talkie,  The  Jazz  Singer,  when  he  was 
an  engineer  for  Warner  Brothers- 
Vitaphone  Corp.  During  his  career 
in  the  entertainment  industry, 
Humphrey  also  worked  on  projects 
with  Samuel  Goldwyn,  Louis  B. 
Mayer  and  Howard  Hughes  and 
recorded  a  number  of  the  stars  of  the 
Metropolitan  Opera.  For  a  time,  he 
served  as  a  consultant  to  the  English 
and  German  film  industries. 

While  he  was  not  directly 
responsible  for  any  new  motion  pic- 
ture technology,  Ellery  B.  Paine, 
Class  of  1897,  was  a  catalyst  for  a 
key  development  in  marrying  sound 
and  film.  As  head  of  the  electrical 
engineering  department  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Illinois,  Paine  recruited 
Joseph  Tykociner,  a  distinguished 
Russian  radio  engineer  who  fled  his 
homeland  during  the  Russian  Revo- 
lution. With  Paine's  encourage- 
ment, Tykociner  took  on  the  thorny 
problem  of  recording  sound  directly 
onto  film,  a  challenge  that  no  one 
had  yet  solved.  By  1921,  he  had  a 
solution.  The  following  year,  Paine 
and   Tykociner  set  up  a  demonstra- 


tion and  Paine,  reciting  the  Get- 
tysburg Address,  became  the  first 
person  to  have  his  voice  recorded 
on  film.  The  film  industry  at  first  re- 
jected Tykociner's  invention;  later, 
when  other  techniques  proved 
unsatisfactory,  it  became  the  indus- 
try standard.  Paine  was  head  of  the 
University  of  Illinois  electrical  engi- 
neering department  for  31  years. 
Today,  the  department  annually 
honors  its  outstanding  junior  with 
the  Ellery  B.  Paine  Award. 

One  of  the  more  notable  devel- 
opments in  film  technology  in  the 
years  following  the  sound  era  was 
the  creation  of  superwide  screen 
formats,  including  20th 
Century  Fox's  Cinema- 
Scope.  Created  to  lure 
audiences  captivated  by 
television     back     into 
movie  theaters,  the  wide 
films  themselves  could 
not  be  shown  on  TV, 
eliminating  a  potential 
1  source  of  revenue  for 
1  Fox.  Ralph  D.  Whit- 
o  more  '09,  as  an  engineer 
3  with     Fox's     research 
§  department,  was  part  of  a 
|  team  that  figured  out 
§  how  to  transform  wide- 
|  screen  films  for  the  small 
screen.    CinemaScope 
films  were  compressed  laterally  and 
then  spread  by  special  lenses  to  fill  a 
double-wide  screen.  The  challenge 
Whitmore's  team  faced  was  finding 
a  way  to  decompress  the  images  and 
recompress  them  into  the  proper 
aspect  ratio.  For  this  achievement, 
the  team   received  an  Academy 
Award  from  the  Academy  of  Motion 
Picture  Arts  and  Sciences  in  1961. 
He  was  also  named  a  fellow  of  the 
Society  of  Motion  Picture  and  Tele- 
vision Engineers. 

A  technical  achievement  by 
another  WPI  graduate  won  him  the 
highest  honor  in  the  field  of  tele- 
vision arts  and  sciences.  In  1956, 
K.  Blair  Benson  '41,  then  an  elec- 
tronics engineer  with  CBS  Televi- 
sion, was  part  of  a  team  that  won  an 
Emmy  for  the  best  engineering  and 
technical  achievement  of  the  year — 
the  development  of  videotape.  The 
following  year,  the  CBS  program 
"Douglas  Edwards  and  the  News" 
became  the  first  program  to  be 
broadcast  on  tape  delay.  During 
Benson's  long  career  with  CBS, 
where  he  led  the  network's  New 
York  design  team,  he  was  involved 
in  a  number  of  other  advances  in 
broadcasting.  A  fellow  of  the  Society 
of  Motion  Picture  and  Television 
Engineers,  he  was  a  member  of  the 
society's  Color  TV  Standards  Com- 


18 


HH 


ttW 


mm 


mittee  and  contributed  to  the  fideli- 
ty of  color  TV  broadcasts  and  the 
development  of  the  VIR  (vertical 
interval  reference)  signal,  which 
provides  each  television  with  its  own 
color  phase  reference.  He  edited  the 
1,500-page  Audio  Engineering  Hand- 
book for  McGraw-Hill  in  1986  and 
the  1, 000-page  Television  Engineer- 
ing Handbook  in  1988.  An  early 
advocate  of  high-definition  televi- 
sion, he  had  just  completed  HDTl ': 
Advanced  Television  for  the  1990s 
before  his  death  in  1990. 

While  decidedly  "low-tech," 
board  games  and  puzzles  have 
always  been  popular  ways  for 
Americans  to  entertain  them- 
selves. One  of  the  largest  makers 
of  games,  puzzles  and  educa- 
tional materials  is  Milton 
Bradley  Co.  in  Springfield,  Mass. 


For  some  30  years,  James  J. 
Shea  '12  directed  the  operations 
of  the  company,  first  as  president 
and  later  as  chairman,  before 
retiring  in  1971. 


N 


umerous  contributions  to  the 
fields  of  electronics,  communi- 
cations and  computer  technol- 
ogy, all  attributed  to  alumni  ofWPI, 
have  helped  bring  about  the  Infor- 
mation Age.  One  of  the  earliest  ten- 
drils of  the  information  technology 
to  enter  the  workplace  was  the  time 
clock,  which  recorded  the  comings 
and  going  of  workers  with  an  accura- 
cy not  previously  possible.  Edward 
G.  Watkins,  Class  of  1886, 
invented  and  patented  one  of  the 
first  practical  time  clocks  while  he 
was  in  charge  of  the  engineering 


department  of  Haywood  Brothers  & 
Wakefield  Co.  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  a 
maker  ot  chairs  and  school  furniture. 
Watkins  started  a  company  to  make 
the  clocks,  which  eventually  became 
the  Simplex  Time  Recorder  Co. 

Few  innovations  of  the  last  100 
years  have  changed  life  more  than 
the  telephone,  and  WPI  graduates 
played  important  roles  in  its  evolu- 
tion. For  example,  John  G.  Trues- 
dell  '08,  who  spent  many  years  as  a 
supervisor  for  AT&T  Co.,  demon- 
strated a  possible  nationwide  tele- 
phone network  for  the  Navy  in 
1917;  it  included  the  first  teletype 
service  and  the  first  ship-to-shore 
radio  connections.  During  World 
War  I,  he  handled  long-distance  and 
special  telephone  service  for  Pres- 
ident Wilson  and  his  cabinet.  In 
1920,  he  helped  install  the  first  loud 


speaker  system  used  at  both  the 
Democratic  and  Republican  presi- 
dential conventions. 

Carlton  D.  Haigis  '15  devel- 
oped the  original  walkie-talkie  units 
used  by  the  U.S.  military.  After  sev- 
eral years  as  chief  physicist  at  the 
Victor  Talking  Machine  Co.,  he- 
started  his  own  laboratory  to  stud) 
ultra-high-frequency  radio,  work 
that  led  to  the  development  of  the 
military  radios.  In  1935,  he  became 
a  radio  engineer  with  the  New  Jer- 
sey State  Forest  Fire  Service,  where 
he  established  the  forest  radio  ser- 
vice system  for  the  state.  A  tew  years 
later,  he  became  chief  of  commun- 
ications for  the  Control  and  Com- 
munications Branch  of  the  Office  of 
Civil  Defense,  and  in  1943,  he  was 
named  operations  analyst  for  the 
Army  Air  Corps.  I  lis  career  was  cut 
short  a  year  later  when  an  Army 
plane  in  which  he  was  riding  crashed 
in  North  Carolina. 

Visitors  to  the  National  Inven- 
tors Hall  of  Fame  in  Akron,  Ohio, 
will  find  exhibits  about  two  WPI 
graduates,  Robert  II.  Goddard  and 
Harold  S.  Black  '21.  Black  earned 
347  patents  during  his  long  career  at 
Bell  Laboratories.  The  one  that 
earned  him  a  spot  in  the  hall  of  fame 
resulted  from  a  moment  of  inspir- 
ation he  had  on  the  ferry  as  he  trav- 
eled to  work  in  New  York  City  one 
morning  in  1927.  He  had  been  try- 
ing to  figure  out  how  to  eliminate 
distortion  on  long-distance  tele- 
phone calls.  His  solution  was  the 
negative  feedback  amplifier,  which 
corrected  the  distortion  by  feeding 
part  of  the  signal  back  to  the  ampli- 
fier and  comparing  it  to  the  original 
signal.  Black's  theory  of  negative 
feedback,  which  has  been  called  one 
of  the  greatest  engineering  achieve- 
ments of  all  time,  has  been  applied 
in  fields  as  diverse  as  control  engi- 
neering, digital  computers  and 
psychology.  His  invention  won  him 
the  John  Price  Wetherell  Award 
from  the  Franklin  Institute  and  the 
Lamme  Gold  Medal  from  the 
American  Institute  of  Electrical 
Engineers. 

The  modern  floppy  disk,  familiar 
to  computer  users  everywhere,  owes 
a  bit  of  its  heritage  to  Harrison  W. 
Fuller  '46,  a  pioneer  in  applied 
research  in  thin-film  magnetics, 
fuller  was  director  of  the  Solid- 
State  Electronics  Laboratory  at  the 
Laboratory  for  Electronics  Inc.  in 
Boston,  where  he  was  also  chief 
physicist.  At  LFE,  he  conducted 
some  of  the  early  work  in  thin-film 
magnetics  that  helped  make  possible 
low-cost  storage  devices — floppy 
disks — for  early  personal  computers. 


IrtlUWnMllBMJ^MJJMMMMMnggUaWMJ^^ 


■I 


THE  BIG  DIG,  Boston's 
Central  Artery  /  Tunnel 
Project,  is  one  of  the  larg- 
est construction  projects 
under  way  in  the  world.  As 
assistant  project  manager 
for  one  of  the  project's 
most  complex  and  visible 
elements,  Maureen  McCaf- 
frey '86  works  every  day 
under  the  watchful  eyes  of 
the  media  and  the  public. 
But  this  construction 
industry  veteran  says  she 
takes  it  all  in  stride. 

By 


JOAN  KILLOUGH-MILLER 


JANET  WOODCOCK 


I 


Maureen  McCaffrey  moves  easily  amid  the  nibble  and  hat;  I  saw  this,  I  saw  that...'  We  get  letters,  faxes  and  'nastygrams' 
confusion  of  Atlantic  Avenue,  weaving  though  a  every  day.  But  every  once  in  a  while  you  get  a  nice  phone  call,  from 
landscape  of  construction  barriers,  tangled  hoses  and  someone  who  likes  the  sight  of  the  lights  on  the  tower  cranes."  She 
throbbing  machinery.  She  stops  to  offer  directions  to  sighs.  "Not  so  many,  really." 
a  bewildered  tourist,  then  squeezes  though  a  pad-  McCaffrey  stops  to  watch  with  satisfaction  as  a  backhoe  rips 
locked  gap  in  a  chain-link  fence  marked  "Restricted"  into  a  pit  of  earth  where  a  tangle  of  steel  cable  protrudes  like  stub- 
and  "Authorized  Personnel  Only."  Recharged  after  a  rare  long  week-  born  tree  roots.  "That  used  to  be  a  T  kiosk,"  she  shouts,  above  the 
end,  McCaffrey  steps  lightly  across  sheets  of  plywood  that  have  been  din.  Locating  and  rerouting  the  conduits  for  utilities — water,  steam, 
thrown  down  over  a  marsh  of  mud  and  concrete  runoff.  As  she  electric,  natural  gas,  telephone  and  fiber-optic  cable — is  a  time  con- 
makes  her  way  to  South  Station,  everyone  greets  Maureen  by  suming  process,  but  consolidating  these  lines  will  improve  service 
name — everyone  with  a  hard  hat,  that  is.  After  asking  about  her  and  expedite  maintenance.  Scanning  the  horizon,  McCaffrey  spots  a 
vacation,  they  fill  her  in  with  some  vital  bit  of  information,  or  group  of  men,  hands  at  their  sides,  circling  a  silent  bulldozer,  and 
remind  her  of  a  concern  still  to  be  resolved  back  in  her  office.  she  goes  to  investigate. 

Boston's  Big  Dig  is  no  big  deal  to  McCaffrey,  who  oversees  a  It's  a  big  step  up  from  her  previous  assignment  on  the  Big  Dig, 

$400  million  contract  on  the  Central  Artery/Tunnel  Project.  She  as  assistant  project  manager  on  the  Charlestown  loop  ramps  onto 


serves  as  assistant  project  manager  for  joint  ven- 
ture partners  Perini,  Kiewit,  Cashman,  contrac- 
tors for  the  northbound  tunnel  that  will  take 
Interstate  93  from  the  Massachusetts  Turnpike's 
Chinatown  exit  along  Atlantic  Avenue  to  Con- 
gress Street.  With  a  projected  work  schedule  of 
66  months,  the  project  is  considered  by  contrac- 
tors to  be  one  of  the  most  complex  jobs  in  the 
multibillion-dollar  highway  renovation  project. 

"Building  the  tunnel  is  the  least  of  our  wor- 
ries," says  McCaffrey,  a  Massachusetts  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  and  a  12 -year  vet- 
eran of  the  construction  industry.  "We  also 
have  to  reroute  utilities  and  build  a  new  Red 
Line  T  station  at  South  Station,  and  an  MBTA 
Transitway  bus  tunnel  that  runs  on  top  of  the 
1-93  tunnel.  If  we  could  just  build  this  job  and 
not  have  all  the  people  around  and  outside 
forces  to  deal  with,  it  really  wouldn't  be  so 
extraordinary." 

Keeping  the  city  open  for  business  through- 
out the  14-year  megaproject  is  a 
nightmare  for  everyone  involved  with 
the  Big  Dig.  But  McCaffrey's  site 
comprises  a  mind-boggling  conflu- 
ence of  traffic,  pedestrians  and  high- 
profile  abutters.  The  main  administrative  offices  for  the 
Central  Artery  project  are  quartered  in  South  Station; 


"Building  the  tunnel 

is  the  least  of  our 

worries. . . .  If  we  could 

just  build  this  job  and 

not  have  all  the  people 

around  and  outside 

forces  to  deal  with, 

it  really  wouldn't  be 

so  extraordinary. " 


Interstate  93  from  Route  1,  near  Boston  Sand 
&  Gravel.  The  $20  million  project  was  com- 
pleted in  1 5  months,  under  the  management  of 
McCaffrey,  three  other  engineers  and  one 
superintendent.  "Nobody  really  noticed  we 
were  over  there,"  she  recalls.  "The  focus  was 
already  on  the  big  Central  Artery  projects."  By 
contrast,  her  current  project  involves  a  team  of 
70  full-time  engineers  and  superintendents,  and 
250  tradespeople,  not  including  subcontractors. 
Work  began  in  February  1995  and  continues  24 
hours  a  day,  six  days  a  week,  with  almost  half 
the  personnel  on  the  night  shift.  McCaffrey's 
responsibilities  are  less  direct,  but  there  is  much 
more  to  account  for. 

"For  years  as  a  field  engineer,"  she  says,  "I 

was  responsible  for  such  tasks  as  reviewing  shop 

drawings,  assisting  in  resolving  design  conflicts, 

coordinating  the  work  of  subcontractors,  and  so 

on.  As  an  assistant  project  manager,  I  deal  with 

much  more  global  issues.  I  spend  most  of  my 

time  on  engineering  matters:  the 

project  schedule,  coordinating  special 

initiatives  to  save  time  or  improve 

construction  methods,  dealing  with 

environmental  agencies,  and  so  on. 

"To  use  a  football  analogy,  I  coach  the  defensive 

team.  We  try  to  keep  problems  from  impacting  the 


at  the  other  end  of  the  job  site  sits  the  headquarters  of  the  Mass-  offensive  team  (the  people  constructing  the  project  in 
achusetts  Highway  Department,  where  officials  can  watch  the  con-  the  field).  My  boss,  Project  Manager  Roger  Borggaurd,  coaches  the 
struction  on  video  monitors.  Towering  over  the  work  site,  the  whole  team,  while  Dick  Melin,  assistant  project  manager  of  oper- 
Federal  Reserve  Bank  and  One  Financial  Center  contain  70  stories  ations,  is  the  offensive  coach.  Our  goal  as  a  team  is  to  build  the  pro- 
full  of  the  city's  most  powerful  bankers  and  lawyers.  ject  safely,  with  minimal  impact  on  the  public  and  the  schedule." 

"We  have  a  lot  of  important  people  looking  out  of  their  win-  McCaffrey  and  other  women  working  on  the  Big  Dig  have 

dows  every  day,"  McCaffrey  admits.  "When  they  pick  up  the  phone  received  special  media  attention,  including  a  write-up  in  the  Boston 

and  call  the  project  director  to  say,  'I  don't  like  this  situation  here,'  Phoenix  last  summer.  She  is  matter-of-fact  about  being  a  minority, 

their  concerns  become  our  concerns.  The  Federal  Reserve  Bank  is  She  says  she  has  experienced  minimal  discrimination  and  har- 


the  financial  lifeline  to  the  entire  Northeast  Corridor.  Every  check 
you  write  goes  though  here.  If  we  disrupt  their  operations,  it  can 
impact  thousands  of  lives." 

All  the  while,  nonstop  pedestrian  and  automobile  traffic,  as  well 


assment,  but  maintains  that  the  gender  issue  is  not  a  factor  in  her 
professional  life. 

"Those  of  us  in  construction  are  less  surprised  by  women  on  the 
job,"  she  says.  "From  an  engineering  standpoint,  we  work  as  a  team. 


as  MBTA  (Massachusetts  Bay  Transit  Area)  and  commuter  trains,  It  doesn't  matter  who's  male  or  who's  female.  Working  in  crews, 

run  over,  around  and  under  the  site.  "Five  days  a  week,  some  30,000  you  develop  relationships  that  make  you  work  together  well."  Occa- 

people  come  out  of  South  Station  and  walk  though  our  work  area,"  sionally,  she  notes,  she  is  mistaken  for  a  receptionist  or  payroll 

she  says.  "With  so  many  people  looking  over  your  shoulder,  you're  clerk,  but  she  excuses  these  as  innocent  errors. 

always  going  to  find  someone  who's  maybe  not  so  happy  with  what  "People  have  these  notions  in  their  mind,  but  they  get  over  it  as 

you're  doing  today.  Not  a  day  goes  by  without  a  phone  call:  soon  as  they  figure  out  who  you  are.  I  don't  think  they  have  trouble 

'There's  a  traffic  cone  out  of  place;  I  saw  someone  without  a  hard  accepting  it.  But  people  outside  of  construction  have  preconceived 


21 


PMMWW<WWIII)IUittWUUI.UItWJW^WHJLUi>MlUUJU]>«MWII 


notions."  Especially  enraging  is  the  suggestion  that  she  has  succeed-     "Everyone  asks  about  my  work  because  it's  so  massive,  and  it's  tan- 


I       lR»l<i 


ed  only  by  the  grace  of  quotas  and  affirmative  action  laws. 

"That  couldn't  be  further  from  the  truth!  Because 
especially  in  the  engineering  profession,  if  you  don't 
cut  it,  you  don't  stay.  Nobody  gets 
paid  to  hang  around  on  a  construction 
site  just  because  they  are  female.  I 
don't  know  of  any  construction  com- 
pany that  provides  women  engineers 
with  employment  as  a  charity." 

McCaffrey  started  with  Perini  Corp.  right 
after  graduation.  She  was  initially  skeptical 
when  her  father  suggested  construction  as  a 
career,  but  she  has  never  regretted  the  choice. 
She  revels  in  the  fast-paced,  action-packed 
nature  of  her  work,  although  the  12 -hour  days 
are  wearing.  "Construction  gives  you  immedi- 
ate gratification,"  she  says.  "You  see  progress 
every  day.  Eventually,  it's  finished,  and  you 
have  cars  driving  on  it.  Sitting  in  one  place, 
designing  something,  that's  not  for  me.  I 
wanted  something  more  people-oriented  and 
integrated  with  the  real  world." 

Engineering  and  WPI  run  in  the  family — 
at  least  the  family  she  married  into.  Her  hus- 
band, Jeff  Breed  '85,  an  electrical  engineering 
major,  is  a  program  manager/senior  engineer 
for  GTE.  Jeff's  brother,  Steven  Breed  '87, 
his  sister,  Kristen  Kibbee  '88,  and 
her  husband,  Stuart  Kibbee 
'89,  are  working  in  dif 
ferent  branches  of 
engineering. 


D  I  G 


wo™ 


$* 


V*l 


"Everywhere  I  go, 
everyone  that  I  run  into 

asks,  'What's  up  at 

work?'  They  blame  me 

for  the  traffic.  They  say 

'Hey — /  could  go  down 

there  and  show  you  how 

to  build  that  thing!'"'' 

cioston,  OhA 


gible — you  can  describe  it  and  people  understand  it.  That's 
not  true  of  my  husband's  job,  which  is  truly  high-tech." 
McCaffrey  is  amused  by  the  public  fascination 

with  the  Big  Dig,  but  modestly  shirks 

the  attention  it  brings.  "I  don't  go  out 

of  the  way  to  talk  about  my  job, 

because  I  don't  want  to  be  a  bore.  I  try 

to  downplay  it.  When  people  ask  about 

I  just  say  'it's  OK,  we're  on  schedule,' 

and  leave  it  at  that.  I  think  they're  just  asking 

out  of  politeness,  and  are  probably  sick  of 

hearing  about  it." 

Apparently  they  aren't.  "Everywhere  I  go, 
everyone  that  I  run  into  asks,  'What's  up  at 
work?'  They  blame  me  for  the  traffic.  They 
say  'Hey — I  could  go  down  there  and  show 
you  how  to  build  that  thing!'  You  get  a  lot  of 
ribbing  too."  She  was  surprised  but  amused 
when  friends  bribed  her  with  lunch  in 
exchange  for  an  inside  job  tour. 

Of  course,  McCaffrey  is  not  oblivious  to 
the  fact  that  she  goes  to  work  every  day  on 
what  is  widely  acknowledged  to  be  one  of  the 
biggest  construction  projects  in  the  world, 
and  she's  not  above  having  a  bit  of  fun  with 
it.  With  majestic  understatement,  she  jotted 
the  following  on  her  WPI  alumni  update 
form:  "Having  fun  building  a  tun- 
nel in  Boston.  Enjoying  work  at 
Perini.  Nothing  too 
exciting. 


A 


he  challenge  of 
opening  up  a  passage 
beneath  the  infrastructure  of  a 
congested  city  has  brought  a  variety  of 
nstruction  techniques  and  exotic  machinery 
>  Boston.  ''Slurry  walls" — a  series  of  opposing 
concrete  panels — will  form  the  underground  side 
walls  of  the  new  Central  Artery  tunnel.  Working  from 


The  slurry  wall 
which  are  constructed  in  24- 
foot  sections,  become  the  permanent 
walls  for  the  tunnel.  Built-up  steel  struts 
span  the  distance  from  slurry  wall  to  slur 
wall,  and  the  tunnel  is  decked  over. 


*>: 


> 


the  Big  Dig  contractors  will  construct  a  total  of  26,000  feet 
of  slurry  walls,  then  hollow  out  the  earth  between  them  to 

create  a  tunnel. 


rst,  a  deep,  narrow  slot  is  dug  by  a  special 
xcavator  that  has  a  compact  head  and  oppos- 
ing cutting  wheels  in  straight  alignment,      | 
which  can  be  dropped  into  a  narrow  hold.  As 
it  digs,  the  milling  drums  of  the  excavator 
pulverize  earth  and  stone,  which  are 
suctioned  off  at  an  astounding  rate. 

ut  you  can't  dig  a  huge  hole  in  the  middle 
of  the  city  and  expect  it  not  to  go 
anywhere,"  Maureen  McCaffrey  '86  points 
-ut.  The  deep,  narrow  slot  is  filled  with 
irry — a  gooey  "mud"  of  Bentonite  and  water.  The  slurry  keeps  the 
hole  open  until  steel  beams  and  concrete  are  in  place.  As  concrete  is 
umped  in  from  the  bottom,  the  slurry  is  sucked  off  the  top,  pumped 
back  to  a  recycling  plant,  filtered,  and  used  again. 


Tunneling  under  Boston's  South  Station  requires  some 
complex  enaineerina.  "We  can't  iust  dia  our  hole  and 


build  our  tunnel  walls  like  we  want  to,  because  there  would 

be  nowhere  for  the  trains  to  run,"  McCaffrey  says.  To  gain 

access,  Perini  excavated  two  vertical  shafts  adjacen 

to  the  South  Station  tunnel,  then  mined  two 

horseshoe-shaped  access  tunnels,  90  feet 

apart,  under  the  tunnel.  From  these  parade. 

.    tunnels,  cross  tunnels  are  mined  to  insert 

|    the  post-tensioned  roof  girders  for  the 

new  Interstate  93  tunnel.  The  1-93  tunnel 

walls  will  also  be  constructed  from  the 

[  vertical  shafts  by  mining  drifts  similar  to 

the  access  tunnels. 

"By  the  time  you're  done  putting  in  the 
roof  beams,  you've  constructed  the 
tunnel — and  all  the  dirt  is  still  inside  of  it, 
says  McCaffrey.  "Then  you  mine  away  the  dirt  between  the  walls.  In 
the  meantime,  trains  from  South  Station  are  running  8  feet  above 
your  head!  From  an  engineering  viewpoint,  that's  probably  the  n 
intense  part  of  the  project." 


O 


n 


22 


Scholar,  educator, 

activist,  humanitarian, 

bread  maker  and  late-night 

correspondent  — the  late 

David  Todd,  longtime 

professor  of  chemistry  at 

WPI,  was  many  things  to 

many  people.  The  many 

facets  of  this  remarkable 

man  live  on  in  the  memories 

of  the  people  whose  lives 

he  touched. 


By  Elizabeth  Walker 


djectives  have  a  way  of  attaching  themselves  to 
people.  Given  voice,  they  seldom  let  go.  But  it's 
the  anecdotes  behind  the  adjectives  that  reveal  the 
strength  and  fidelity  of  their  hold. 

Professor  David  Todd  was  a  man  of  prodigious  intellect 
and  generous  spirit.  That's  how  colleague  James  Dittami, 
head  of  WPI's  Chemistry  and  Biochemistry  Department, 
described  Todd  at  a  memorial  service  held  in  October  1997. 
Dittami  supposedly  took  over  some  of  Todd's  responsibilities 
in  the  area  of  organic  chemistry  when  he  retired  in  19S7. 

"There  were  two  problems  with  that,"  Dittami  notes. 
"First,  Dave  was  irreplaceable;  second,  he  never  left." 

Dittami,  like  most  of  his  colleagues,  has  a  file  fat  with 
articles,  clippings  and  notes  from  Todd  written  on  the  backs 
of  recycled  exams,  memos  and  envelopes.  He  pointed  to  a 
New  York  limes  article  covered  with  notes  and  suggestions 
that  Todd  had  sent  him.  The  clipping  resulted  in  funding  for 
Dittami. 

"Dave  was  a  catalyst,"  he  says.  "He  would  do  his  work 
and  then  do  yours.  He  kept  up  with  what  everyone  was  doing 
and  filled  in  the  holes.  He  kept  everyone  informed — and  not 
just  about  chemistry.  He  talked  about  civil  rights  in  Africa, 
about  Cuba,  or  about  new  scientific  discoveries — whatever  he 
felt  deserved  our  attention.  He  was  also  a  watchdog  of  litera- 
ture. He'd  correct  the  grammar  in  journal  articles  he'd  read 
and  send  marked-up  copies  back  to  the  editors." 

Ask  people  about  David  Todd,  and  the  adjectives  begin  to 
fly.  Generous,  frugal,  vigorous,  curious,  intellectual,  passion- 


23 


!»JUJ«AfltlJWIUU»UKI«tlUUai«MU«UiiMUa 


ate,  principled,  impulsive,  eccentric.  He  was  noted  for  "daring  recti-  eling  companions.  He  seemed  to  share  a  special  interest  with  each 

tnde"  and  was  called  a  "joyous  atheist  who  attended  Unitarian  church  one:  classical  music,  cooking,  hiking,  beekeeping  or  a  favorite 

services  religiously."  He  cared  deeply  about  the  safety  of  his  students  author.  All  who  knew  him  treasure  at  least  one  "classic"  story  or 

in  the  lab,  but  was  known  to  drive  on  tires  so  bald  they  cupped  at  the  image  that  portrays  his  unorthodox  approach  to  his  professional  and 

edges.  He  carefully  recorded  his  results  on  the  lined  paper  of  lab  personal  lives,  which  were  one  and  the  same. 

books,  but  entrusted  countless  scientific  insights  and  formulas  to  any  "A  big,  tall  guy  in  shorts."  That  was  Professor  Stephen 

scrap  of  paper  at  hand.  Though  a  legendary  bread  maker  who  taught  Weininger's  first  image  of  Todd,  his  soon-to-be  colleague  and 

students  the  chemistry  of  leavening,  he  was  known  to  whip  up  a  fairly  eventual  friend  in  what  was  then  WPI's  Chemistry  and  Chemical 

hideous  meat  loaf  on  occasion.  Engineering  Department.  Weininger  met  Todd  over  three  decades 

Todd  wore  these  oxymoronic  descriptors  as  easily  as  he  wore  his  ago  while  enjoying  afternoon  tea  in  England, 

eclectic  wardrobe.  After  30  years  on  the  organic  chemistry  faculty  at  "I  still  have  a  vivid  impression  of  the  first  time  I  saw  David," 

WPI  and  a  decade  of  alleged  retirement,  Todd  officially  returned  to  Weininger  says.  "I  was  in  Durham,  and,  by  phone  and  letter,  had 

campus  last  summer  with  his  signature  look  intact.  He  sported  a  seri-  just  negotiated  a  job  at  WPI.  I  had  never  met  anyone  from  WPI.  It 

ous  lack  of  agreement  in  socks,  Rorschach-quality  ink  stained  shirts,  was  four  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  and  I  was  having  tea,  as  usual, 

and  sweaters  well  ventilated  by  years  of  chemical  burns.  One  of  his  when  this  big,  tall,  vigorous  guy  in  shorts  dropped  by  and  intro- 

retirement  gifts  from  the  department  in  1987  had  been  a  "pair"  of  duced  himself.  It  was  'vintage  D.T.'  to  appear  like  that." 

gloves,  one  brown  and  one  black,  "to  match  his  other  pair."  Weininger  quickly  learned  that  his  new  colleague  had  no 

In  an  essay  about  her  grandfather  that  accompanied  her  college  patience  with  preliminaries  and  that  he  might  call  at  any  hour  to 

applications,  Lauren  Todd  wrote,  "Last  weekend  he  came  to  my  discuss  a  chemistry  problem  or  announce  a  new  or  interesting 

cross-country  race  dressed  in  his  characteristic  grandpa  outfit:  a  result.  "My  wife  got  used  to  the  phone  ringing  at  midnight,"  he 

tightly  fitting  wool  sweater,  wrinkled  pants  pulled  above  his  waist,  says.  "I  learned  to  get  the  receiver  to  my  head  quickly  when  David 

and  shoes  with  'holed'  socks  protruding  from  the  sides. ..he  just  called,  because  as  soon  as  you  picked  up,  he'd  start  talking." 

doesn't  care  about  most  material  things.  He  cares  more  about  Todd  was  taking  his  annual  summer  walking  tour  of  the  English 

chemistry,  writing,  reading  and  learning."  coast  when  he  detoured  to  meet  his  new  colleague.  He  would  walk 

from  one  bed  and  breakfast  to  the  next,  taking  up  his  walk  each  year 

By  Aug.  12,  1997,  Todd  had  come  nearly  full  circle  in  his  from  where  he  had  stopped  the  summer  before.  In  later  years  he 

40-year  relationship  with  WPI.  More  than  a  decade  after  he  would  invite  one  or  another  of  his  grandchildren  to  join  him.  His  love 

had  officially,  if  not  actually,  retired,  he  accepted  an  appoint-  of  England  and  English  literature  paralleled  his  passion  for  chemistry, 

ment  to  teach  a  full  load  of  organic  chemistry  classes  and  labs  He  told  his  family  he  had  no  desire  to  visit  any  other  country, 

through  the  1997-98  academic  year.  His  enthusiasm  showed  in  the  Todd's  heart  was  as  large  as  his  all-encompassing  intellect, 


course  materials  he  pain- 
stakingly revised,  in  the 
experiments  he  carefully 
planned,  and  in  the  collec- 
tion of  lichens  he  had 
gathered  in  Alaska  and 
divided  among  small  dish- 
es interspersed  with  a 
benchload  of  flasks  and 
outmoded,  but  to  his  mind 
"perfectly  serviceable," 
equipment.  He  was  pre- 
pared— though  not  for 
what  was  to  happen  that 
day. 

Todd  stopped  by 
Goddard  Hall  to  check  on 
his  lab  bench  and  to  share 
the  blueberries  he  had 
recently  gathered  with  his 
son,  Chris,  in  Alaska.  He 
stopped  by  the  Worcester 
Public  Library,  and  then 


Todd's  interest  in  chemistry  developed  at  a  young  age.  He  earned  his 
bachelor's  degree  at  Swarthmore  in  1938,  the  year  he  caught  that 
impressive  string  of  fish  on  an  outing  in  Virginia,  and  went  on  to  grad- 
uate school  at  Harvard,  in  the  days  when  "graduate  students  still 
cooked  their  dinners  over  their  Bunsen  burners." 


according  to  Dittami.  (He 
underscores  the  words 
kind  and  compassionate  in 
the  litany  of  adjectives 
that  trail  Todd  to  wherev- 
er his  name  is  mentioned.) 
"Dave  opened  his  heart 
and  his  home  to  his  col- 
leagues and  his  students. 
He'd  listen  to  people  and 
anticipate  the  kind  of  help 
they  needed.  He'd  offer 
before  you'd  asked  him. 
He  always  invited  students 
to  his  home  for  holidays  if 
they  weren't  able  to  be 
with  their  families." 

Every  year  Todd 
would  write  a  poem  that 
he  would  read  aloud  at 
the  department  Christmas 
party.  To  the  annual 
amazement  of  his  col- 


called  his  wife,  Connie,  to  say  he  was  heading  home  with  blueber-  leagues,  he  somehow  rhymed  everyone's  name,  including  those  of 

ries  and  salmon  from  Alaska  and  fresh  bread.  Less  than  10  miles  the  graduate  students,  many  of  whom  had  extremely  difficult 

from  their  Woodstock,  Vt.,  summer  house,  he  suffered  a  massive  names  to  rhyme  in  English.  No  one  was  ever  left  out. 

heart  attack  that  precipitated  a  fatal  car  accident.  Todd  knew  he  wanted  to  be  a  chemist  by  age  12,  according  to 

At  his  core,  Todd  was  a  remarkable  chemist  who  in  his  many  his  son,  Larry.  After  several  years  in  a  Swiss  boarding  school,  he 

relationships  held  himself  to  the  same  high  standard  that  he  careful-  graduated  from  the  private  Friends-Sidwell  School  in  Washington, 

ly  nurtured  within  his  family  and  among  his  friends,  colleagues  and  D.C.,  and  went  on  to  Swarthmore  College,  where  he  immersed 

students.  Those  relationships  evolved  like  the  active  science  of  himself  in  the  discipline  that  was  to  become  his  driving  passion.  In 

change  that  consumed  him.  Students  became  colleagues;  colleagues  1938,  he  earned  his  bachelor's  degree  and  went  on  to  graduate 

became  friends;  friends  became  family;  grandchildren  became  trav-  school  at  Harvard,  where  he  earned  a  doctorate  in  chemistry  in 


24 


«MMMiMMWI 


1942.  The  timing  of  his  graduation  could  have  been  difficult  for  a  hack  to  the  lab,  I  found  a  scrap  of  paper  on  my  bench  with  a  note  I 
pacifist  like  Todd.  Fortunately,  his  "war  research"  (he  made  shark  could  hardly  read,"  he  says.  "It  was  from  Dave.  It  said,  'I  thoughl 
repellent  at  Harvard  and  the  Woods  Hole  Oceanographic  Institute)  graduate  students  still  cooked  their  dinners  over  their  Bunsen  burn- 
earned  him  a  deferment.  He  held  appointments  at  Cornell,  Amherst  ers.'  Fortunately,  I  caught  up  with  him  the  next  day." 
College  and  the  Worcester  Foundation  for  Fxperimental  Biology,  Todd's  years  in  the  lab  challenging  his  students  provided  him 
before  joining  the  WPI  faculty  in  1957.  the  fodder  and  stimulus  to  write  a  lab  manual.  Experimental  Organic 
Todd  was  a  demanding  teacher,  but  students  liked  him  because  Chemistry,  published  by  Prentice  Hall  in  1979,  was  widely  adopted 


he  was  interested  in  what  interested 
them,  Dittami  says.  Students  who 
didn't  take  to  his  brand  of  teaching 
during  their  years  on  campus  appar- 
ently had  second  thoughts  later  on. 
The  name  that  appeared  most  often 
on  surveys  that  asked  alumni  to  name 
a  professor  they  had  come  to  appreci- 
ate since  leaving  campus  was  Todd's. 
Former  students  remembered  how 
well  he  prepared  them  for  the  chal- 
lenges they  encountered  after  grad- 
uation. Todd  often  told  Larry  that 
the  most  important  part  of  college 
happened  outside  the  classroom. 

The  wide  range  of  issues  and 
applications  that  Todd  brought  into 
his  labs  touched  Ed  Kleinman  '72. 
The  intensity  of  the  professor's  devo- 
tion to  chemistry  and  teaching  also 
made  a  deep  impression  on  the  organ- 
ic chemistry  convert.  Kleinman,  a 
principal  research  investigator  at 
Pfizer  Central  Research  in  Groton, 
Conn.,  was  a  chemical  engineering 
major  at  WPI  who  shifted  his  focus  to 
organic  chemistrv  after  one  term  in 
Todd's  class  and  lab.  Today  he's 
involved  in  immunology  and  the 
development  of  drugs  to  treat  asthma. 

"Dave  was  my  first  organic  chem- 


and  included  many  inside  jokes  that 
delighted  colleagues  and  former  stu- 
dents like  Kleinman. 

"Chemists  have  this  insult  they 
reserve  for  each  other,"  says  Larry 
Todd.  "For  experiments  and  such 
that  go  from  A  to  Z,  they  say,  'That's 
cookbook  chemistry.'  To  have  fun 
with  that,  my  dad  included  two 
recipes  in  his  textbook,  one  for  oat- 
meal molasses  bread  and  the  other 
for  chocolate  chip  ice  cream.  He 
used  to  teach  the  chemistry  of  bread- 
and  ice  cream-making  back  when 
they  offered  Intersession  classes  at 
WPI.  One  reviewer  suggested  that 
the  bread  recipe  alone  was  worth  the 
price  of  the  book." 

In  addition  to  experiments  in 
bread  preparation  and  ice  cream  syn- 
thesis, Todd  included  a  section  on 
student  lab  errors.  On  page  82  he 
wrote,  "These  errors  have  all  been 
committed  by  college  students  in 
spite  of  careful  instruction  and  close 
supervision.  Some  are  dangerous, 
some  safe,  but  silly.... Mr.  N.  (here 
N.  approaches  infinity)  did  a  suction 
filtration,  using  his  aspirator  trap 
without  closing  the  pressure-release 
pinchcock.  It  took  him  a  long 
time. ...Miss  R.  boiled  a  50  percent 
water-alcohol  solution  in  an  open 
beaker  with  a  flame  'because  water 
doesn't  burn.'" 

After  recounting  more  than  two 


Todd  had  eclectic  interests,  including  England  and 
istry  instructor  and  that  changed    English  literature.  He  made  an  annual  walking  sum 
everything  for  me,"  Kleinman  says.    mer  tour  of  England,  confessing  that  he  had  no 
"To  say  that  he  was  devoted  to  chem-    interest  in  seeing  any  other  country.  His  greatest 
istry  would  be  an  understatement.  He   passion  was  chemistry;  when  he  died,  he  left  a 
taught  from  the  soul  and  from  every   workbench  overflowing  with  new  experiments. 
limb  of  his  body.  He  would  tell  us  about  his  work  with  L-dopa,  a     dozen  errors,  many  of  which  were  annotated  with  Todd's  wry  corn- 
compound  that  is  used  to  treat  people  with  Parkinson's  disease.  He     ments,  he  finished  the  section  with  an  example  of  an  error  commit- 
was  trying  to  make  it  cheaper.  During  lab,  he  would  discuss  issues     ted  by  "Prof.  T." 
outside  of  chemistry.  He  had  so  many  political  and  cultural  interests."  Todd's  work  was  also  published  in  the  Journal  of  Chemical  Edu- 

Kleinman  could  see  that  not  everyone  appreciated  Todd's  blend  cation  and  other  chemical  journals  and  scholarly  publications.  He 
of  humor  and  gentle  sarcasm,  but  it  inspired  him  to  go  on  to  the  regularly  contributed  to  a  specialty  column  in  Chemical  and  Engi- 
University  of  California,  Berkeley,  and  earn  a  doctorate.  He  dedi-  neering  News  and  was  a  favorite  reviewer  of  editors  who  continued 
cated  his  thesis  to  Todd,  with  whom  he  had  done  research  as  an  sending  him  books  and  articles  long  after  his  retirement.  He  would 
undergraduate.  correct  the  grammar  as  well  as  the  science.  He  wrote  single-spaced 

"Some  students  were  overwhelmed  by  Dave,  so  reactions  were     on  an  old  manual  typewriter, 
mixed,"  Kleinman  says.  "He  was  quick  to  point  out  the  flaws  in  peo-  One  of  Todd's  more  whimsically  titled  publications  was  precipi- 

ple's  logic — especially  that  of  politicians.  He  wouldn't  insult  you,  tated  by  an  unexpected  time-dependent  result  he  observed  in  the  lab 
but  he'd  insult  your  behavior  just  to  wake  you  up.  You'd  have  to  be  at  Pomona  College,  where  he  taught  for  several  years  while  in  retire- 
asleep  not  to  understand  his  lab  briefings.  I  was  impressed  that  he  ment.  After  he  had  set  up  a  reaction  to  clarify  a  problem  a  student 
swept  up  broken  glass  himself  and  wanted  to  do  experiments  with  had  had  in  the  lab,  Todd  was  called  away  by  a  department  secretary 
students.  He  had  great  faith  in  human  nature  and  he  maintained  to  attend  a  lunch  that  lasted  longer  than  he  anticipated.  The  reaction 
lifelong  commitments  with  his  students."  was  long  past  completion  when  he  returned  but,  to  his  discerning  eye, 

Kleinman  felt  that  commitment  "up  close  and  personal,"  even  yielded  the  resolution  to  the  problem.  He  published  his  findings, 
while  he  was  attending  graduate  school  3,000  miles  from  the  WPI  entitled  "The  Evelyn  Effect."  The  article  is  still  cited  in  the  literature, 
campus.  "I  had  gone  home  for  dinner  one  night  and  when  I  got     according  to  Dittami.  (You  can  guess  the  secretary's  name.) 


25 


■MMtnnMMKwn 


iKJLkaKa»tiH«ra« 


Todd's  response  to  retirement  was  to  go  back  to  school  and 
get  a  job.  He  enrolled  at  the  Harvard  Institute  for  Learning 
in  Retirement.  "He  was  driven  to  teach,"  says  colleague  and 
friend  Alvin  Weiss,  a  chemical  engineer  who  joined  the  WPI  faculty 
in  1966.  "When  Dave  retired,  he  took  jobs  all  over  the  country, 
from  Pennsylvania  to  Poughkeepsie  to  Pomona  College  in  Califor- 
nia. He  also  taught  at  Vassar  and  Juniata  colleges.  He  often  would 
fill  in  for  people  on  sabbatical." 

Todd  had  every  chemical  known  to  man  since  1910,  all  in  the 
most  colorful  little  containers,  according  to  Al  Weiss.  "Dave  was  an 
old-school  organic  chemist  who  used  large  amounts  of  chemicals. 
Yet  he  was  one  of  the  first  to  develop  a  micro-scale  lab." 

That  effort  garnered  Todd  a  $1,000  grant  from  DuPont  several 
months  before  his  retirement  was  official.  He  wrote  to  DuPont  ask- 
ing for  the  seed  money  to  set  up  a  micro-scale  chemistry  lab.  When 
he  received  the  grant,  he  wrote  to  thank  the  company's  committee 
on  educational  aid  from  saving  him  from  what  he  considered  the 
twin  terrors  of  retirement,  Florida  and  shuffleboard. 

Todd  never  met  a  chemical  he  didn't  like.  An  inveterate  recy- 
cler,  he  kept  them  all — at  times  to  the  dismay  of  David  Messier, 
chemistry  lab  manager  and  WPI's  environmental  health  and  safety 
officer.  "D.T.  was  a  gentle  man  with  a  gazillion  stories  that  he  gen- 
erously shared,"  Messier  says.  "He  was  a  safety  ally,  but  he  was  also 
a  pack  rat.  I'm  responsible  for  hazardous  waste  disposal.  I'd  do  an 
inspection  and  weed  through  the  chemicals,  setting  aside  those  that 
would  need  to  be  disposed  of.  Dave  would  reclaim  the  materials  at 
night,  when  he  still  had  a  key  to  where  they  were  kept." 

Messier  and  Todd  shared  an  interest  in  beekeeping.  "I'm  a  bee- 
keeper and  D.T.  loved  honey,  so  we  had  a  lot  to  talk  about," 
Messier  says.  "He  was  always  leaving  me  articles  to  read." 

Todd  was  also  known  to  talk  with  Messier  at  midnight  when  he 
couldn't  find  a  certain  chemical.  "I  never  told  him  not  to  call,"  he 
says.  "I  just  felt  that  that  was  D.T.  and  I  needed  to  help  him  get 
what  he  needed.  He  used  to 
have  a  key  to  the  storage  room 
by  the  loading  dock.  One  day  he 
mistook  the  alarm  for  the  light 
switch.  He  couldn't  hear  the 
alarm,  so  the  building  had  been 
evacuated  before  he  came  out 
wondering  why  everyone  was 
outside." 

If  the  lab  was  Todd's  second 
home,  the  library  was  his  third, 
according  to  Al  Weiss,  who 
remains  in  awe  of  the  depth  and 
breadth  of  Todd's  interests  and 
reading.  "Dave  was  always  in 
libraries,"  he  says.  "A  favorite 
was  the  Widener  at  Harvard,  his 
alma  mater.  Half  the  time,  it  was 
for  chemistry,  the  other  half  it 
was  for  English  literature.  He 
was  trying  to  identify  the 
sources  of  obscure  quotations 
for  the  NEMO  Almanac,  a  publi- 
cation of  elite  literary  scholars.  We  often  dined  together.  Some- 
times, between  dinner  and  a  PBS  show  we  all  enjoyed,  he'd  run  to  a 
library  to  do  a  little  work." 

Todd  loved  challenges.  Finding  solutions  is  what  drove  him 
through  life  and  lab.  Yet  little  in  his  early  years  suggested  that  he 
would  encounter  many  limits.  He  was  born  in  1916  in  New  York 
City  to  parents  who  socialized  with  and  apparently  spoke  their 


Fund,  Symposium  Honor 
Todd's  Memory 


I    -5\  ^  \ 


The  family  of  David  Todd  has 
^^  established  a  memorial  fund  that 

K  will  benefit  WPI's  Chemistry  and 

Biochemistry  Department  and  its 
students.  Contributions  may  be 
sent  to: 

David  Todd  Memorial  Fund 
University  Relations  Office 
WPI 

100  Institute  Road 
^Vl  Worcester,  MA  01609-2280 

On  Friday,  Oct.  2,  1998,  the 
day  before  WPI's  Homecoming,  the  Chemistry  and  Biochem- 
istry Department  will  hold  a  special  symposium  in  Todd's 
honor.  Details  of  the  afternoon  symposium  have  not  yet  been 
announced.  For  more  information,  please  contact  the  depart- 
ment at  508-831-5371. 


minds  to  the  movers  and  shakers  of  their  day.  Todd  grew  up  in  the 
comfortable  environs  of  Chevy  Chase,  outside  of  Washington,  D.C. 
His  mother,  a  Bryn  Mawr  graduate,  was  in  and  out  of  the  White 
House.  His  father  was  a  newspaperman  who  had  been  a  bureau 
chief  in  the  1930s  for  the  Russian  news  agency  TASS.  Both  parents 
had  a  definite  tilt  to  the  left.  David  told  Larry  Todd  about  being 
upset  once  when  his  mother  made  him  give  his  Christmas  apple  to 
labor  leader  Eugene  Debs,  founder  of  the  American  Socialist  Party, 
when  they  met  him  at  Union  Station  in  Washington. 

Steve  Weininger  remembers  Todd's  showing  him  a  copy  of  a 
letter  author  Sinclair  Lewis  sent  his  father.  Apparently  the  reputed- 
ly strong-willed  Mrs.  Todd  would  not  allow  her  husband  to  enter- 
tain Lewis  in  their  home  because  he  drank.  Both  parents  were 
Socialists  and  activists  who  passed  on  to  their  children  high  moral 
standards,  their  lack  of  concern  for  material  goods,  and  their  strong 
Quaker  belief  in  service  to  others.  The  children  chose  different 
paths,  but  pursued  them  passionately.  In  fact,  Todd's  sister,  Mary, 
became  an  ardent  follower  of  Fidel  Castro  and  his  politics.  She  now 
lives  in  Cuba. 

The  Todds'  highly  principled  approach  to  child  rearing  led  to 
David's  staunch  and  vigorous  defense  of  Nobel  Prize-winning 
chemist  Irene  Joliot-Curie,  who  was  denied  membership  in  the 
American  Chemical  Society  in  1953  because  of  her  pro-Communist 
involvements.  Todd's  activism  found  outlets  through  his  leadership 
positions  in  the  local  ACLU  chapter  and  in  advocating  for  accom- 
modations for  students  with  disabilities.  He  was  also  quick  to 
defend  underdogs  and  unpopular  causes  when  he  believed  it  was  the 
right  thing  to  do.  He  was  a  prolific  writer  of  letters  to  the  editor  and 
anyone  else  he  thought  should  rethink  a  position.  Service  was  also  a 
constant  thread  through  his  life.  For  years,  he  took  it  upon  himself 
to  organize  the  annual  sale  of  UNICEF  cards  in  Worcester. 

When  he  returned  to  WPI  to  teach  late  last  summer  after  his 
unorthodox  decade  of  retirement,  David  Todd,  at  81,  had  not 

changed  or  slowed,  physically  or 
intellectually.  Nor  had  his  great 
passion  for  every  aspect  of 
organic  chemistry  waned  in  the 
slightest.  As  Al  Weiss  notes,  he 
had  kept  up,  was  still  "hot  in  his 
field."  Gravity's  gentle  pull  on 
his  shoulders  was  the  only  sign 
that  time  had  marched  on.  It  was 
clear  that  Todd  still  stepped 
lively  to  that  other  drummer. 

It  also  was  obvious  that 
Todd  still  managed  to  elude  the 
grip  of  the  clock  hands  that  tell 
most  of  us  when  not  to  call  oth- 
er people.  Late-night  phone 
calls,  wee-hour  visits  to  the  lab, 
and  notes  and  formulas  scribbled 
on  the  backs  of  old  phone  bills 
or  placemats  remained  his  call- 
ing cards.  Though  the  chemists 
on  campus  (and  their  spouses) 
are  assured  of  sleeping  through 
the  night  these  days,  most  would  give  up  a  good  night's  sleep  for  an 
occasional  midnight  ring  that  announced  the  magic  that  was  David 
Todd. 

— Walker  is  a  freelance  writer  who  has  written  extensively  about  higher 
education.  She  contributed  to  our  coverage  of  IVPPs  strategic  planning  ini- 
tiative in  the  Fall  1 991  WPI  Journal. 


26 


; 


• 


The  rem  a  i 


:e  '37 


; 


• 


THE     ENTREPRENEURIAL     SPIRIT 


—  Sixteenth   in  a  Series 


Bv  Michael  w.  dorsey 


I  ill  Price  has  never  met  a  problem  he  couldn't  solve.  In  a 
career  that  has  spanned  more  than  six  decades  and  a  host 
of  industries  and  occupations,  he  has  proven  himself  to 
be  a  master  problem  solver,  often  seeing  solutions  where 
others  have  found  only  dead  ends.  Through  the  com- 
bination of  an  inventive  mind,  keen  insight  and  an  entre- 
preneurial bent,  he  has  retrieved  products  from  the  brink  of 
disaster,  founded  and  sold  highly  successful  companies,  won 
dozens  of  patents  and  sold  most  of  them  for  tidy  profits,  and 
retired  twice — the  first  time  when  he  was  just  3 1 . 

From  an  early  age,  Price  proved  himself  a  natural  inventor, 
able  to  take  a  problem  and  turn  it  into  an  opportunity,  able  to 
look  around  him  and  see  a  landscape  rich  with  the  potential  for 
change  and  improvement,  able  to  thrive  in  a  business  with  no 
rules  and  no  guidelines — a  world  where  anything  is  possible 
with  imagination  and  vision.  His  inventions  range  from 
machinery  for  manufacturing  and  packaging  cosmetics,  to  a 
system,  now  employed  by  builders  around  the  world,  for  mak- 
ing fiberglass  used  to  form  concrete  into  complex  shapes,  to  a 
drive-up  teller  window  for  banks  that  can  move  not  only  in  and 
out,  but  up  and  down  to  accommodate  cars  of  different 
heights.  But  Price  has  also  been  the  consummate  entrepreneur, 
the  rare  inventor  with  the  instinct  and  initiative  to  turn  good 
ideas  into  highly  successful  businesses. 

Now  mostly  retired  from  the  fields  of  engineering,  busi- 
ness and  industry,  Price  still  can't  help  seeing  problems  in  the 
world  around  him  and  finding  solutions.  "We  filed  a  patent 
application  just  last  week,"  he  tells  an  interviewer.  "I  developed 
an  antitheft  device  for  cars.  I  figure  this  device  could  be  sold 
for  under  $100.  There  are  well  over  100  million  cars  on  the 
road  today  that  have  no  security  devices,  so  the  possibilities  are 
just  fantastic." 


27 


iiniiMiiimnnirwnnrrvirrnnrrnuiiiiii  in  mini  ii  tilll""»""»"«"™" 


MllEMnB 


THE      ENTREPRENEURIAL     SPIRIT 


Seeing  the  possibilities — and  under- 
standing how  to  unleash  them  through  hard 
work  and  good  business  sense — is  something 
Price  observed  firsthand  growing  up  in 
Brookline,  Mass.  His  father,  a  native  of 
Lithuania,  had  emigrated  to  the  United 
States  around  the  turn  of  the  century  after 
studying  in  St.  Petersburg  and  London. 
Beginning  with  next  to  nothing,  he  founded 
Price  Pressing  Machine  Co.  and,  later, 
Acme  Electric  Heating  Co.,  a  large  industri- 
al electrical  heating  company. 

"My  father  was  very  imaginative,  and  he 
loved  to  patent  his  ideas,"  Price  says.  "For 
example,  he  invented  a  steam  pressing 
machine  that  is  still  used  today.  He  traveled 
all  over  the  country  to  set  up  garment  man- 
ufacturers to  use  steam  pressing  instead  of 
hand  irons.  He  didn't  like  dealing  in  the 
garment  industry,  though,  so  he  eventually 
sold  his  patent  and  the  business." 

Bill  Price  had  hoped  to  study  engineer- 
ing at  Harvard,  but  when  the  college  closed 
its  engineering  school,  he  made  the  deci- 
sion to  travel  farther  afield  to  go  to  school. 
He  enrolled  at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute,  but  he  says  he  felt  unchallenged 
by  his  freshman  courses.  Halfway  through 
his  first  year,  he  transfered  to  WPI.  "WPI 
put  me  on  probation,"  he  says,  "which  wor- 
ried me  because  the  courses  there  seemed 
much  more  advanced  than  those  at  Rens- 
selaer. I  had  to  be  very  careful  and  study 
hard." 

To  catch  up  on  the  material  he  had 
missed,  Price  tutored  fellow  students  in  San- 
ford  Riley  Hall.  He  managed  to  do  well 
enough  in  several  courses  to  be  exempted 
from  taking  the  final  exam.  One  exam  he 
could  not  get  out  of,  though,  was  in  the 
physics  course  taught  by  the  infamous  Mor- 
ton Masius.  "It  was  tough. ..very  tough," 
Price  remembers.  "He  impressed  upon 
everybody — especially  me — to  learn  the  first 
part  of  our  studies.  The  rest,  he  said,  would 
come  easy.  I  studied  the  first  part  very  hard, 
and  the  rest  did  come  easy. 

"It  was  a  three-hour  final,  and  I  left  after 
an  hour.  Professor  Masius  came  out  and 
asked  me,  'What's  the  matter,  can't  you 
handle  it?  Don't  you  know  the  answers?' 
But  I'd  finished  the  exam,  and  I  got  the  top 
grade  in  the  class.  Two  years  later,  I  walked 
into  his  office  and  he  remembered  me  right 
away.  I  asked  him  how,  with  all  the  students 
he  had,  that  he  happened  to  remember  me. 
He  said,  'You  are  the  only  student  who  ever 
walked  out  early  from  one  of  my  exams,  and 
I  will  never  forget  it.' " 

After  graduating  with  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  electrical  engineering,  Price  went 


"One  day  I  went  to  talk 
with  the  head  of  engineer- 
ing and  I  asked  him,  'Who 
is  the  top-paid  man  here?' 
He  said  it  was  the  chief 
architect.  I  told  him  that 
he  had  two  chief  architects 
— that  I  was  one,  too. 
He  said,  'Well,  then,  we 
can't  have  you.' " 

to  work  for  his  father's  company.  At  one 
time  he  designed  high-dielectric  ceramics 
for  use  in  large  saline  heat-treating  tanks 
that  the  company  had  contracted  to  build 
for  the  Navy.  But  Price  says  his  father  never 
gave  him  the  credit  he  was  due  for  his 
design  work  on  the  tanks — work  that  had 
solved  a  problem  engineers  at  a  major  com- 
peting manufacturing  company  had  been 
unable  to  tackle.  So  when  he  saw  an  ad  in 
the  local  newspaper  for  a  junior  engineering 
position  at  Eastman  Kodak  Company,  he 
decided  to  apply  and  was  soon  on  his  way  to 
Rochester,  N.Y. 

"In  those  days,  a  junior  engineer  sharp- 
ened pencils,  delivered  blueprints,  and  so 


on,"  he  says.  "After  a  few  weeks,  I  couldn't 
take  it.  I  went  to  the  head  of  engineering 
and  told  him  I  needed  something  that  would 
give  me  more  responsibility.  Perhaps  just  to 
take  care  of  this  wise  kid,  they  made  me  a 
senior  engineer — the  youngest  senior  engi- 
neer in  Kodak's  history." 

In  his  new  position,  Price  was  put  in 
charge  of  the  electrical  and  mechanical 
design  work  for  a  huge  new  building  where 
Kodak  would  house  its  film  finishing  depart- 
ment. "I  had  never  been  on  a  construction 
site  in  my  life,"  he  says,  "but  I  had  a  copy  of 
the  building  codes  and  I  knew  layout.  I'd 
make  sketches  and  the  architectural  drafting 
department  would  turn  them  into  drawings. 
I'd  take  them  into  the  field  and  the  won- 
derful foreman  would  say,  'You  can't  do  it 
that  way,  it  has  to  be  this  way.'  I'd  have  the 
drawings  redone  and  we'd  go  ahead.  It  was 
the  first  time  a  building  at  Kodak  had  been 
finished  within  budget  and  on  time." 

In  the  brief  time  he  spent  at  Kodak, 
Price  was  responsible  for  two  patents.  The 
first  was  for  an  interlock  switch  that  instant- 
ly cut  off  power  to  the  lights  inside  and  out- 
side a  darkroom  if  the  darkroom  door  was 
inadvertently  opened,  preventing  the  film 
from  being  exposed.  The  second  was  for 
matched  pairs  of  electric  motors  for  a  film 
coating  system  that  assured  that  the  proper 
thickness  of  emulsion  was  applied  to  the 
film.  According  to  Kodak  policy,  Price 
received  a  total  of  $1  for  the  two  patents. 
"That  hurt  my  pride,"  he  says. 


28 


Price  says  Kodak  also  failed  to  pay  him  use,  so  1  went  to  the  catalogs.  I  designed  a 

what  he  thought  his  work  was  worth.  "After  substation  and  listed  all  the  equipment  that 

my  success  with  the  film  finishing  building,  I  would  be  needed,  and  the  War  Department 

thought  I  deserved  a  raise  from  the  $40  a  accepted  the  design.  Everybody  was  excited, 

week  I  was  making.  In  a  few  weeks,  they  and  I  later  found  out  why.  That  was  the 

came  and  said  they  had  gotten  me  a  raise;  firm's  fourth  attempt  to  get  a  substation 

I  didn't  ask  how  much.  When  I  got  my  pay-  design  approved,  and  they  were  in  danger  of 

check,  it  was  for  $44 — a  $4-a-week  raise.  1  losing  the  whole  contract  over  it." 
said,  'I'm  sorry,  I  think  I'm  worth  more  than  Price  says  be  does  not  like  to  draw,  so  he 

$44  and  I'd  like  to  resign.' "  convinced  the  head  of  the  engineering 

Kodak  asked  him  to  stay  on  to  oversee  department  to  assign  him  seven  draftsmen 

the  remaining  details  for  the  building.  "I  that  he  kept  busy  by  making  freehand 

said,  'What  do  I  get  paid  as  a  consultant?'  sketches  of  designs  for  electrical  systems  for 

They  said,  '$50  a  day.'  So  I  started  the  next  the  depot,  which  the  draftsmen  turned  into 

week  at  $50  a  day,  instead  of  $44  a  week.  I  finished  drawings.  "One  day  I  went  to  talk 

learned  that  consultants  make  good  money!"  with  the  head  of  engineering  and  I  asked 

After  leaving  Kodak  in  1941,  Price  him,  'Who  is  the  top-paid  man  here?'  He 

moved  to  New  York  City,  where  he  landed  a  said  it  was  the  chief  architect.  I  told  him  that 

job  as  a  draftsman  for  a  consulting  firm  that  he  had  two  chief  architects — that  I  was  one, 

had  received  a  contract  from  the  War  too.  He  said, 'Well,  then,  we  can't  have  you.' 

Department  to  build  the  Rome,  N.Y.,  Air  I  decided  to  leave,  but  instead  they  agreed  to 

Depot  (now  Griffiss  Air  Force  Base).  The  pay  me  the  same  salary  as  the  chief  archi- 

base  was  to  have  its  own  generating  plant  tect — which  was  more  than  eight  times  what 

that  would  be  linked  to  the  distribution  grid  I  was  making  as  a  draftsman." 
of  Niagara  Hudson  Power  Corp.,  so  that  the  After  the  depot  was  completed,  Price 

military  could  sell  power  to  the  utility  at  went  on  to  work  as  a  consultant  for  several 

times  of  low  demand  and  purchase  extra  other  architects  and  engineers,  developing 

power  at  times  of  peak  demand.  the  electrical  and  mechanical  plans  for 

Price  was  assigned  to  design  the  electri-  plants  for  Remington  Arms,  General  Elec- 

cal  substation  that  would  tie  the  base  into  trie  and  other  major  companies.  One  day  he 

the  grid.  "There  were  all  kinds  of  catalogs  received  a  call  from  the  president  of  cosmet- 

that  people  who  do  that  kind  of  design  work  ics  maker  Helene  Curtis  in  Chicago.  Aware 

A  wartime  consulting  project  for  Heiene  Curtis  led  Price  into  the  cosmetics  busi- 
ness. He  eventually  founded  Rona  Industries  in  a  storefront  in  Chicago,  opposite, 
and  built  it  into  the  nation's  largest  cosmetics  packager  and  manufacturer. 


of  Price's  work  for  Kodak,  he  asked  if  he 
could  fix  a  problem  with  a  movie  projector 
the  company's  military  division  was  making 
tor  the  Air  Force.  "To  be  honest,  I  had  nev- 
er set  foot  in  Kodak's  camera  plant,"  Price 
says,  "but  I  agreed,  anyway." 

(Price  had  another  reason  in  accepting 
the  company's  offer  to  move  him  to  Chi- 
cago; in  1942  he  had  married  the  former 
Sydelle  Katz,  who  was  originally  from  the 
Windy  City.) 

Price  discovered  that  the  projector  was 
of  exceptional  quality.  Its  one  failing  was  the 
direct-drive  mechanism  it  used  for  rewind- 
ing, which  had  a  tendency  to  tear  the  film. 
"It  was  obvious  to  me  that  it  needed  some- 
thing that  had  variable  tension  on  it,"  he 
says.  "I  designed  a  tiny  slip  clutch  with  two 
cork  faces  and  a  spring  behind  it.  We 
installed  it  in  a  few  days  and  ran  film 
through  it  with  no  problem." 

The  success  of  the  clutch  led  to  an 
assignment  to  solve  a  problem  with  the 
manufacture  of  gun  mounts  that  Helene 
Curtis  was  making  for  the  rear  turrets  of 
bombers.  Designed  by  engineers  at  another 
company,  the  mounts  were  being  rejected  at 
a  phenomenal  rate.  "I  went  through  the 
drawings  and  tightened  up  the  tolerances 
quite  a  bit,"  he  says.  The  mounts  cost  a  bit 
more  to  manufacture,  but  the  rejection  rate 
dropped  from  as  high  as  95  percent  down  to 
about  5  percent." 

Impressed  with  the  ease  with  which 
Price  could  find  his  way  to  the  heart  of  an 
engineering  challenge,  and  knowing  that 
work  in  the  company's  military  division 
would  slow  after  the  war,  the  chairman  of 
Helene  Curtis  invited  Price  to  become  a 
full-time  problem  solver  for  the  company's 
cosmetics  division.  One  of  the  first  problems 
he  tackled  revolved  around  the  wartime 
restriction  on  the  use  of  glass  bottles  for 
packaging.  The  cosmetics  division  had 
recently  introduced  a  new  permanent  cold- 
wave  solution,  and  demand  for  the  product 
was  so  high,  the  company  knew  it  would 
quickly  go  through  the  half  million  empty 
bottles  it  had  in  storage. 

"I  asked  the  head  of  the  chemical  divi- 
sion if  the  solution  could  be  made  in  con- 
centrated form,"  Price  says.  "He  said  it  was 
possible,  so  we  made  a  concentrate  and  I 
designed  a  machine  that  would  make 
ampoules  from  glass  tubing,  which  was  not 
restricted.  The  machine  cut  the  tubing  and 
put  in  bottoms.  The  ampoules  were  filled 
with  concentrate,  then  the  necks  were  drawn 
and  sealed.  The  customer  just  had  to  open 
the  ampoule  and  mix  the  concentrate  with 
water." 


WPI  JOURN4 


29 


HNfi 


«MIM«IWJ«l»UMaUM1MtKHro{ma 


THE      ENTREPRENEURIAL     SPIRIT 


Helene  Curtis  also  manufactured  per- 
manent wave  pads  that  included  thermite 
powder,  a  material  that  generates  a  consid- 
erable amount  of  heat  when  exposed  to 
moisture.  Because  of  humidity  in  the  air,  a 
fire  would  erupt  in  the  plant's  dust  collec- 
tors nearly  every  day.  Price  suggested  han- 
dling the  thermite  in  a  room  with  extremely 
low  humidity.  He  supervised  the  design  and 
construction  of  a  100-ton  air  conditioning 
system  that  scrubbed  the  air  and  heated  it  to 
103  degrees  Fahrenheit,  bringing  the  rela- 
tive humidity  down  to  just  2  percent.  The 
system  reduced  the  frequency  of  fires  to 
once  every  few  months. 

Price  found  opportunities  to  do  consult- 
ing work  for  a  number  of  other  cosmetics 
companies.  One  client  was  poised  to  intro- 
duce a  new  perfume  with  a  national  promo- 
tion, only  to  discover  that  the  bottle  would 
not  fit  into  the  boxes  that  had  already  been 
made  for  it.  With  no  time  to  print  new  box- 
es, they  turned  to  Price.  "Within  a  couple  of 
hours,  I  built  a  small  steam  chamber,"  he 
says.  "We  shot  steam  into  the  boxes,  which 
made  them  soggy.  The  bottle  fit  in  the  sog- 
gy box.  You  couldn't  get  it  out  easily  after 
the  box  dried,  but  that  was  immaterial. 
From  then  on,  anytime  that  company  had  a 
problem,  I  had  a  chance  to  work  on  it." 

As  a  consultant,  Price  took  note  of  the 
large  fees  paid  to  subcontractors.  "I  told  the 
chairman  of  the  company,  Til  make  a  deal 
with  you.  I  would  like  to  go  into  the  cosmet- 
ics packing  business.  Fll  take  any  subcon- 
tract you  have  at  50  cents  on  the  dollar,  but 
I  don't  want  to  bid  on  it.'  " 

The  deal  was  made,  and  Price  founded 
his  own  firm,  Rona  Industries,  in  a  store- 
front in  downtown  Chicago.  He  started  out 
with  $700  in  capital  and  just  two  employees. 
When  he  sold  the  company  in  1946,  it  had 
3,300  employees  and  had  grown  to  become 
the  largest  firm  of  its  kind  in  the  country.  "I 
was  satisfied  with  a  profit  of  just  $1  per 
employee  per  day,"  he  says.  "But  other  com- 
panies couldn't  get  by  on  that,  so  we  had  no 
competition." 

Over  time,  the  company  expanded 
beyond  packaging  and  began  manufacturing 
shampoos,  colognes,  perfumes  and  other 
cosmetics  that  were  sold  under  a  variety  of 
national  brand  names.  "We  started  Sears, 
Montgomery  Ward,  Walgreens  and  a  num- 
ber of  other  national  chains  in  the  cosmetics 
business,"  Price  says.  At  other  times,  it  set 
up  operations  lines  to  package  boxes  of 
assorted  valentines,  assemble  and  package 
the  first  American  ballpoint  pen  for  the  pen 
manufacturer,  and  build  a  toy  bank  shaped 
like  a  wall  telephone.  "We  also  became  the 


country's  largest  export  packager  of  military 
supplies  for  the  European  and  Pacific  the- 
aters," he  says. 

Price  sold  the  business  when  the  weath- 
er in  Chicago  began  to  take  a  toll  on  his 
health.  At  the  age  of  31,  he  retired  and 
moved  to  Phoenix,  where  he  built  the  house 
he  has  lived  in  ever  since.  Not  content  to 
relax  in  the  sun,  he  bought  the  oldest  and 
largest  machine  shop  in  Arizona — "as  a  hob- 
by," he  says — and  quickly  increased  the 
shop's  business  more  than  tenfold. 

One  contract  came  from  the  Atomic 
Energy  Commission,  which  needed  cooling- 
water  tubes  for  reactors  that  made  enriched 
uranium.  Price's  shop  proved  the  only 
source  able  to  manufacture  the  tubes  to  the 
precise  tolerances  required  by  the  AEC. 
Eventually,  as  other  contractors  failed  to 
deliver  acceptable  parts,  Price  became  the 
sole  supplier.  Beginning  with  a  contract  for 
10,000  tubes,  he  went  on  to  make  several 
million,  running  his  shop  around  the  clock 
to  keep  up  with  the  demand. 

Price  also  made  street  signs  and  traffic 
light  poles  for  the  growing  city  of  Phoenix. 
He  won  patents  for  a  number  of  devices 
used  in  secondary  electrical  distribution  sys- 

"If  someone  has  a  problem, 
I  try  to  help.  The  majority 
of  the  clients  I  see  should 
not  go  into  business.  I  tell 
them,  'If  you  want  to  have 
fun,  take  your  money  and 
go  to  Vegas.  At  least  you 
will  have  enjoyed  yourself 
I  don  H  like  to  see  people 
lose  their  money. " 

terns.  "At  one  time  there  was  not  a  utility 
pole  in  the  state  of  Arizona  that  did  not  have 
something  on  it  that  came  out  of  our  plant." 
When  the  Salt  River  Project,  a  public 
electric  utility  and  water  company  in  Ari- 
zona, began  switching  its  distribution  system 
over  from  25  hertz  to  60  hertz,  farmers  in 
the  region  had  to  replace  the  large  2  5 -cycle 
electric  motors  that  powered  their  irrigation 
pumps.  Price  went  into  the  business  of 
rebuilding  the  motors  into  a  vertical-thrust 
design.  The  rebuilt  motors,  which  sold  for 


\ 


half  the  cost  of  new  motors,  were  not  only 
rewound  to  operate  on  60-cycle  power,  but 
were  given  new  bearings  that  made  them 
easier  to  service. 

In  1948,  Price  underwent  a  major  opera- 
tion, followed  by  four  months  of  recupera- 
tion. Unable  to  provide  day-to-day  supervi- 
sion of  the  machine  shop,  he  decided  to  sell 
the  business.  He  received  an  offer  to  merge 
with  a  holding  company  in  Texas  that  held 
the  rights  to  manufacture  a  single-engine  air- 
craft called  the  Navion.  Designed  and  built 
just  after  World  War  II  as  a  trainer  by  North 
American  Aviation,  it  was  modeled  after 
North  American's  famed  P-51  Mustang.  The 
all-metal  plane  was  considered  the  "Cadillac" 
of  small  civilian  aircraft.  "To  this  day,"  Price 
says,  "it  remains  the  only  small  plane  in  the 
air  with  a  chromoly  steel  frame." 

The  holding  company  was  making 
replacement  parts  for  existing  Navions  and 
was  negotiating  with  an  Italian  company  to 
build  new  planes.  Price  prevailed  on  the 
company  to  let  him  manufacture  the  parts  in 
Arizona  and  ship  them  to  a  plant  in  Texas  to 
be  assembled  into  finished  aircraft.  Operat- 
ing as  the  Navion  Aircraft  Company,  the 
firm  also  redesigned  the  plane,  converting  it 
from  a  five-seater  to  a  six-seater.  Within  a 
few  years,  Navion  Aircraft  was  producing  26 
planes  a  month,  the  largest  production  vol- 
ume for  any  private  plane  in  its  price  cat- 
egory. "The  demand  was  so  great,  we  didn't 
need  a  sales  or  marketing  department," 
Price  says.  "The  plane  sold  itself." 

Encouraged  by  the  early  success  of  the 
new  Navion,  the  board  of  directors  of 
Navion  Aircraft  decided  to  take  the  compa- 
ny public.  "As  president,  I  said,  'We  do  not 


30 


KHUn| 


'^l&l*N2AVn 


In  1948,  Price's  machine  shop  merged  with  a  company  that  owned  the  rights  to 

make  the  Navion,  the  "Cadillac"  of  small  civilian  aircraft.  Price  made  the  parts 
for  the  highly  successful  plane. 

have  enough  history  to  go  puhlic.  I  think  we  His  consulting  work  in  Asia  brought 
should  wait  a  few  years,'"  Price  remembers,  him  to  the  Orient  quite  often.  On  those 
"I  got  voted  down.  I  resigned  and  took  my  trips,  he  took  time  out  to  indulge  his  inter- 
money  out,  and  they  tried  to  go  public,  est  in  collecting  art,  antique  carvings,  gold 
They  spent  $15  million  in  the  process  and  coins  and  fine  jewelry,  interests  he  has  pur- 
ended  up  bankrupt."  sued  on  other  overseas  trips,  including  a  vis- 
After  leaving  Navion  in  the  early  it  to  the  Soviet  Union  and  Eastern  Europe 
1960s — his  second  retirement — Price  turned  in  1972.  Price  was  a  member  of  a  delegation 
his  attention  to  business  and  investment  of  business  leaders  who  accompanied  Presi- 
opportunities.  He  helped  found  the  fourth  dent  Richard  Nixon  when  he  became  the 
largest  bank  in  the  city  and  served  on  its  first  U.S.  president  to  visit  the  Soviet 
board  of  directors  for  25  years,  until  it  was  empire.  "Eve  also  traveled  around  the  world 
sold.  He  invested  extensively  in  real  estate  in  many  times  and  seen  things  most  people  see 
and  around  Phoenix,  including  buildings  in  only  in  brochures,"  he  says, 
the  bustling  business  district.  "In  past  "The  trip  to  Russia  was  an  interesting- 
years,"  he  says,  "I've  been  involved  in  mil-  experience,"  he  says.  "We  had  access  to 
lions  of  dollars  in  real  estate  transactions."  places  the  average  tourist  never  sees. 
Over  the  years,  Price  has  also  been  Though  I  enjoyed  the  visit,  I  decided  that  I 
involved  in  a  number  of  joint  ventures  in  could  never  do  business  there.  Everything 
Asia.  This  phase  of  his  career  began  when  moves  too  slow.  Most  business  meetings 
he  acted  as  an  engineering  consultant  for  a  involve  eating  and  drinking,  and  I  do  not 
multinational  consortium  building  a  plant  to  drink.  Plus,  the  technology  I  saw  there  was 
quick-freeze  fish  in  Singapore.  "Korea  sup-  30  to  40  years  old — absolutely  useless,  as  far 
plied  the  fish,  Italy  supplied  the  capital,  and  as  I  was  concerned." 

the  United  States  supplied  the  technology,"  Although  he  considers  himself  semire- 

he  says.  "It  went  very  well.  Compared  to  tired  now,  Price  remains  active,  despite 

similar  plants  in  this  country,  it  was  fairly  health  problems  that  have  worsened  in 

small,  but  it  was  the  first  such  facility  in  that  recent  years.  He  also  continues  to  recover 

country."  from  a  serious  automobile  accident  in  1996 

Price  later  became  a  consultant  in  man-  that  left  him  with  slightly  diminished  use  of 

ufacturing  and  distribution  for  a  machine  his  right  arm.  His  wife  has  also  been  seri- 

tool  company  in  Taiwan.  "They  built  auto-  ously  ill  for  many  years, 
mated  machine  tools  and  we  set  up  a  compa-  He  is  chairman  of  Price  Investment 

ny  to  sell  them  all  over  the  world,"  he  says.  Fund,  a  diversified  fund  dealing  in  varied 

"We  didn't  sell  many  in  the  United  States,  areas  of  finance,  real  estate,  stocks,  bonds 

but  Europe  was  a  big  customer."  and  other  investment  vehicles.  Perhaps  his 


greatest  current  interest  is  helping  others 
turn  their  good  ideas  into  successful  busi- 
nesses through  his  work  for  the  Small  Busi- 
ness Administration  and  SCORE,  the  Ser- 
vice Corps  of  Retired  Executives.  He  joined 
the  ranks  of  SCORE  15  years  ago,  and  is 
today  a  lifetime  member  and  a  member  ot 
the  executive  committee  of  the  Phoenix 
chapter.  Over  that  span,  he  has  counseled 
hundreds  of  potential  entrepreneurs,  cri- 
tiquing their  ideas  and  plans  and  encourag- 
ing the  small  number  who  have  the  makings 
ot  a  going  venture.  After  a  career  that  has 
involved  virtually  every  aspect  of  starting 
and  running  a  business,  Price  is  in  a  position 
to  offer  the  kinds  of  insight  and  wisdom  that 
tew  executives  can. 

"I've  been  involved  in  so  many  areas,"  he 
says.  "I've  covered  engineering,  I've  covered 
manufacturing,  I've  covered  management, 
I've  covered  banking,  I've  covered  finance 
and  business  planning.  Still,  I'm  never  sure  if 
I'm  an  asset  or  a  liability.  If  someone  has  a 
problem,  I  try  to  help.  The  majority  of  the 
clients  I  see  should  not  go  into  business.  1  tell 
them,  'If  you  want  to  have  fun,  take  your 
money  and  go  to  Vegas.  At  least  you  will 
have  enjoyed  yourself.'  I  don't  like  to  see 
people  lose  their  money.  A  few  ideas  do  have 
potential,  and  that  makes  it  interesting." 

Price  is  especially  proud  of  one  particu- 
lar success  story.  "One  client  came  in  with 
his  wife  and  the  first  thing  he  said  was,  'I'm 
wasting  my  time  and  I'm  wasting  your  time.' 
His  wife  said,  'Listen  to  Dr.  Price.'  They 
had  a  product  that  removes  the  hard  water 
ring  from  the  toilet  bowl.  A  very  simple 
product,  and  it  works.  He  said,  'I  can't  get 
anybody  to  help  me  with  this.'  I  gave  him 
the  names  of  friends  in  the  plastics  business, 
and  when  he  left,  I  said,  'If  you  don't  make  a 
success  of  this,  it  will  be  your  own  fault.' 
That  product  is  now  in  almost  all  the  major 
hardware  stores.  In  a  few  years  they'll  be 
able  to  retire,  all  because  of  this  little  device 
that  sells  for  about  five  dollars." 

Price  says  his  work  for  SCORE  is  just 
"something  to  do,"  but  it  is  clear  as  he  talks 
about  the  people  he  has  helped,  and  the 
ideas  that  have  germinated  with  the  aid  of 
his  counsel,  that  there  is  a  bit  more  to  it. 
Like  everything  else  he  has  accomplished  in 
his  distinguished  career,  it  is  yet  another 
opportunity  to  transform  problems  into 
solutions,  to  turn  the  fruits  of  imagination 
into  money-making  enterprises,  and, 
through  the  remarkable  alchemy  of  entre- 
preneurship,  to  transmute  inspiration,  vision 
and  hard  work  into  products  that  can  truly 
change  the  world.  And  that  may  be  the 
greatest  legacy  for  a  master  problem  solver. 


31 


mMwnnsiwmiuwwn 


FINAL     WORD 


Building  Dreams  at 
The  Construction  Site 


The  Construction  Site  is  a  small  store, 
tucked  between  a  curtain  shop  and  a 
furniture  store  on  Moody  Street  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  The  customers  tend  to  be 
small,  too — and  are  often  clad  in  Vel- 
cro  sneakers  and  OshKosh  over- 
alls. Small,  but  serious.  They 
walk  in,  knowing  exactly 
what  they  want,  and  express 
great  relief  at  having  found — 
at  last — a  supplier  with  the 
inventory  and  the  technical 
knowledge    to    meet    their 
exacting  demands. 

"We  get  a  lot  of  great  kids," 
says  owner  Steve  Delfino,  who  earned 
his  bachelor's  degree  in  mathematics 
at  WTI  in  1985.  "They're  only,  like,  this 
big"  [he  gestures  at  hip  height],  but  they're 
really  articulate.  They  know  every  LEGO 
set,  and  they'll  tell  you  everything  about 
what  they've  built.  The  kind  of  kids  who  like 
to  build  things  tend  to  be  very  creative,  and 
their  enthusiasm  is  great." 

From  the  moment  Delfino  and  co-owner 
Crispin  Richey,  a  graduate  of  the  University 
of  North  Carolina,  opened  their  doors  in 
September  1997,  children  have  been  nothing 
less  than  ecstatic  upon  entering  the  cheery, 
colorful  store.  Floor-to-ceiling  shelves  laden 
with  bright  boxes  in  primary  colors  cover 
every  inch  of  the  walls.  Elaborate  creatures — 
some  with  thousands  of  pieces — are  poised 
among  the  merchandise.  A  5-foot-tall, 
remote-controlled  Robotix  robot  named 
Coco  guards  the  door,  and  Annette,  a  plump 
infant  made  of  LEGO  bricks — including  her 
bottle — nestles  on  a  high  perch.  Behind  the 
cash  register,  a  solar-powered  Ferris  wheel 
made  of  K'Nex  spins  gaily. 

The  Construction  Site  toys  have  to  be 
fun,  of  high  quality,  and  made  up  of  pieces 
that  can  be  assembled  and  reassembled  in 
different  ways.  A  model  airplane  would  not 
qualify,  since  there  is  only  one  way  to  put  it 
together,  and  once  it  is  glued  together,  it 
can't  be  disassembled  and  built  again.  The 
store's  concept  appears  to  be  unique, 
according  to  the  owners  and  their  suppliers. 
Even  the  LEGO  Group  was  taken  aback  by 
the  store's  initial  order. 

32    SPRING  1991 


Steve  Delfino,  right,  and  Crispin 
Richey  have  created  a  wonderland 
for  anyone  who  loves  construction 
toys.  In  addition  to  a  Ferris  wheel 
made  from  K'Nex,  a  Robotix 
robot  named  Coco  and  an 
infant  made  from  LEGOs, 
visitors  to  The  Construc- 
tion Site  will  find  the 
full  line  from  these  and 
other  manufacturers, 
including  hard-to-find  sets. 

"They  knew  we  were  a  small  toy  store, 
just  starting  up,"  Delfino  says,  "and  they 
were  startled  to  see  such  a  big  order.  It  took 
them  a  while  to  realize  we  were  a  small  toy 
store  carrying  their  entire  line!"  Three 
months  after  opening,  The  Construction 
Site  placed  in  LEGO's  300  top-selling  inde- 
pendent stores.  "I  think  they  know  us  now," 
Delfino  smiles. 

Almost  a  quarter  of  the  store — 36  feet  of 
display  space — is  devoted  to  LEGO  sets, 
ranging  from  simple  stacking  toys  for 
infants,  to  vehicles  with  rack-and-pinion 
steering,  to  kits  that  involve  pneumatics  and 
even  fiber  optics.  There  are  also  sections 
devoted  to  robotics,  geometries,  toddler 
toys,  and  classics  (such  as  wooden  blocks  in  a 
choice  of  six  stocks,  from  basic  pine  to  high- 
end  maple)  and  erector  sets.  Visitors  can  try 
out  display  sets  at  child-sized  play  tables. 

Unlike  regular  toy  stores,  which  might 
carry  only  a  few  of  the  most  common  sets, 
The  Construction  Site  stocks  the  full  line 
from  selected  manufacturers,  including  spe- 
cialized accessories  and  add-ons,  extra 
pieces,  storage  units,  and  new  or  hard-to- 
find  sets  for  the  true  aficionado.  It  also  car- 
ries large  sets  designed  for  group  play, 
which  have  been  purchased  by  local  day  care 
centers  and  the  Waltham  public  schools. 

Although  many  of  the  toys  specify  a  sug- 
gested age  range,  The  Construction  Site 
philosophy  is  that  one  can  never  be  too  old 
to  play  with  any  of  these  toys.  This  may  be 


especially  true  for  engineers.  Delfino  enjoys 
Geoshapes,  a  connecting  set  that  relates  to 
his  Major  Qualifying  Project  on  graph  theo- 
ry. He  sent  a  similar  toy  to  a  WPI  friend 
who  wrote  that  it  rekindled  his  passion  for 
tensegrity  structures  and  inspired  a  desire  to 
build  a  geodesic  dome.  Actually,  toy  sales  to 
adults  were  factored  into  Delfino  and 
Richey's  business  plan. 

Some  grown-up  customers  of  The  Con- 
struction Site  are  open  and  proud,  while 
others  try  to  cover  up  the  fact  that  they  are 
buying  for  themselves.  "We  have  some 
hard-core  LEGO  fans,"  Delfino  acknowl- 
edges. "We  recently  had  this  38-year-old 
woman  who  piled  up  a  large  purchase  at  the 
register  and  happily  told  us  it  was  a  birthday 
present  for  herself."  He  knows  of  some 
households  where  there  are  strict  rules 
about  "Mommy's  LEGOs."  Although  they 
don't  have  figures  for  adult  sales,  their  clien- 
tele includes  engineers,  architects  and  soft- 
ware designers  from  many  well-known  high- 
tech  companies  around  Route  128.  The 
store's  Internet  mailing  list  has  many  e-mail 
addresses  that  end  with  ©mit.edu. 

Richey's  passion  for  construction  toys 
began  in  childhood,  but  Delfino  didn't  get 
hooked  until  he  was  at  WPI.  "I  think  my 
first  exposure  was  a  LEGO  sample  set  that 
came  in  a  cereal  box  or  a  McDonald's  Hap- 
py Meal,"  he  says.  He  didn't  have  much 
money  for  toys  in  his  student  days,  but  once 
he  graduated  and  had  a  salary,  his  collection 
took  off.  Today  his  house  has  a  LEGO 
room,  with  an  inventory  of  some  60,000 
pieces,  organized  by  color.  It  took  several 
trips  with  a  borrowed  pick-up  truck  to  move 
the  collection  to  its  present  location. 

In  fact,  it  was  during  a  trip  to  LEGO- 
Land  in  Windsor,  England,  that  the  idea  for 
the  store  took  form.  After  two  years  of  plan- 
ning and  securing  funding,  The  Construction 
Site  went  into  action,  with  Richey  manning 
the  register  full  time,  and  Delfino,  who  works 
as  an  actuary  at  Arbella  Mutual  in  Quincy, 
working  in  the  store  nights  and  weekends. 
Business  has  been  steady  since  the  Christmas 
season  (which  typically  accounts  for  40  per- 
cent of  sales),  and  the  owners  are  pleased  to 
see  customers  coming  from  great  distances. 


..'        ■■ 


The  Construction  Site  philosophy 
is  that  one  can  never  be  too  old 

i  play  with  any  of  these  toys. 
This  may  be  especially  true  for 
engineers/' 


The  location  attracts  evening  browsers  from 
Moody  Street's  "Restaurant  Row,"  and  the 
store's  best  advertising  is  word-of-mouth.  A 
network  of  female  construction  workers, 
delighted  with  the  concept,  has  been  faxing 
the  store's  ad  around  town. 

The  store's  motto,  "Construction  Toys 
for  Girls  and  Boys,"  is  meant  to  send  a  mes- 
sage; girls  are  not  just  in  there  for  the  sake  of 
cadence.  An  estimated  40  percent  of  cus- 
tomers are  girls.  Delfino  and  Richey  are  frus- 
trated when  parents  look  around  at  their 
wares  and  ask,  "Is  there  a  toy  store  for  girls 
anywhere  near  here?"  Some  toy  companies 
are  progressive  in  marketing  equally  to  both 


genders,  they  note,  but  others  perpetuate 
stereotypes  with  separate  catalogs  for  boys 
and  girls. 

Richey,  who  bears  the  brunt  of  the 
store's  long  hours,  says  that  although  the 
venture  has  been  more  work  than  he  could 
have  imagined,  it  has  brought  much  joy.  "It 
seems  like  you're  going  and  going  and  going 
all  week,  and  you're  so  busy  that  you  think 
you're  not  enjoying  it  because  you're  con- 
stantly working.  Then,  on  Sunday  at  six 
o'clock,  when  the  store  closes,  you  look  back 
and  you  say,  'Wow!  That  was  fun.'" 

—JOAN  KILLOUGH-MILLER 


The  Construction  Site  is  located  at  284  Moody 

Street  in  Waltham,  Mass.  For  directions,  store 

boars,  product  descriptions  and  fun  links,  visit 

the  store's  Web  site:  www.constructiontoys.com. 

The  site  features  fabulous 

creations  from  The 

Construction  Site's 

Builder's  Expositions 

— monthly  events  that 

bring  together  kids 

and  adults  to  showcase 

projects  on  designated 

themes,  such  as  animals 

and  undersea  adventures. 


irniyniniiHWTTftrmiff 


SWWKWWSWKti 


UEHB 


BroHmaptMBangnrnggs 


MJitnmxisuamM 


MM 


