K 


((  orccstcr polytechnic  institute 
Ocorgc  £.  Gordon  library 


^^S^*^^ 


OCTOBER  1975 


y,  1T&^ 


UIPpMMEy 


Vol.  79,  No.  2 


October  1975 


3  On  the  Hill 

4  Feedback 

6     Alumni  Association 

8     The  cycle  begins  again 

Admissions  Director  John  Brandon  looks  at  the  Class  of  '79 

10      God  and  EPA 

A  fable  about  the  problems  of  dealing  with  a  bureaucracy,  no 
matter  who  you  are 

12      From  kosher  catering  to  WPI  and  back  again 

Ron  Sarver,  '74,  found  that  his  math  studies  at  WPI  just  took  too 
much  time  from  his  sideline  business,  so  he  decided  that's  really 
where  his  future  lay 

15  Take  a  powder . .  . 

Ronald  Chand  and  his  custom  carbides 

16  Math,  microcircuits,  and  mainsails 

Sue  and  Alan  Carlan  (both  '56),  enjoying  life  on  (and  off)  the 
West  Coast 

17  Jake's  crazy  idea 

The  inventor  of  the  underwater  amplifier  that  made  the 
transatlantic  cable  possible  is  up  to  some  new  tricks 

18  Now  you  see  him  .  .  . 

Steve  Dacri,  '74,  doesn't  solve  problems  —  he  creates  them  in 
front  of  audiences.  A  look  at  the  burgeoning  career  of  a  nationally 
known  magician 

20     Your  class  and  others 

32     Completed  careers 


tor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

imni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

blications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
,  '51,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57; 
snard  Brzozowski,  '74;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
,  '45;  Rev  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

sign:  H.  Russell  Kav 

lography  and  Printing: 
3  House  of  Offset, 
merville,  Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  JOURNAL,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright©  1975  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October,  Decem- 
ber, February,  and  April.  Second  Class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Postmaster-  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alum- 
ni Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.A.  Julian,  '49 
R.A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B.  E. 
Hosmer,  '61;  L.  Polizzotto  '70;  J. A.  Palley, 
'46;  J.  L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.H.  White,  '41;  G.A.  Anderson,  '51;  H.I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  1 


by  the  editor 

landmark  and  a  tradition 

olen  . . . 

id  some  other  things,  too 

;t  issue,  we  ran  a  story  here  about 
dismantling  of  Boynton  Hall's  flag- 
e,  and  we  also  printed  a  picture  of 
Pi's  two  towers  in  all  their  beauty. 
The  flagpole  died  a  natural  death  of 
t  and  was  quietly  put  away.  Now  the 
lament  on  the  other  tower  is  gone, 
i,  and  not  so  gently.  The  arm  and 
nmer  weathervane  which  has  stood 
p  Washburn  Shops  since  1868  was 
len  early  in  October.  The  thieves  ap- 
ently  got  onto  the  roof  of  the  build- 
one  night,  threw  a  rope  up  and  las- 
d  the  vane's  base  at  one  of  the  di- 
tional  markers.  Then  they  pulled  it 
ir  until  the  arm  and  hammer  fell  off, 
>k  their  booty  and  left. 
The  first  question  that  almost  every- 
e  asked  was,  "Did  a  student  do  it?" 
e  just  don't  know.  A  year  or  two  ago 
:re  was  a  rash  of  weathervane  thefts 
oughout  New  England,  some  of  them 
dently  by  helicopter.  These  culmina- 
i  in  the  theft  of  the  vane  from  Fan- 
1  Hall,  since  recovered.  Perhaps  the 
ashburn  theft  was  done  for  gain  and 
t  as  a  prank.  No  ransom  has  been 
;ed  for. 

The  theft  was  discovered  during  the 
Drning  of  October  2,  and  since  then 
:  campus  police  have  been  investigat- 
;  in  an  attempt  to  recover  the  vane. 
it  does  not  turn  up,  presumably  a 
)lica  will  be  created  to  take  its  place 
top  of  Washburn's  cupola. 
The  weathervane  was  designed  by 
larles  H.  Morgan  for  the  building, 
e  drawing  of  it  here  is  a  reproduction 
his  original  sketch,  taken  from  the 
37  history,  Seventy  Years  of  the  Worces- 
Polytechnic  Institute.  The  arm  and 
mmer  were  adopted  as  a  part  of  the 
liege  seal  in  1888. 


Actually,  it  was  a  bad  week  for  the 
Institute  in  other  places.  On  Wednes- 
day, a  piece  of  19th  century  embroidery 
was  stolen  from  the  top  floor  of  Gordon 
Library,  where  it  was  on  display.  Ac- 
cording to  Albert  G.  Anderson,  head 
librarian,  this  is  the  first  theft  in  the 
eight  years  the  library  has  been  exhibit- 
ing. After  discovering  the  theft,  An- 
derson ordered  the  rest  of  the  exhibit 
taken  down.  Unless  he  can  figure  out  a 
way  to  safeguard  future  displays,  the  Li- 
brary may  be  forced  to  cancel  its  plans 
for  all  future  exhibits. 

And  finally,  the  Physics  Department 
recently  discovered  the  theft  of  a  Nikon 
autocollimator  from  Olin  Hall.  A  no- 
questions-asked  reward  for  its  return  is 
being  offered. 


What  was  that? 

Where  are  the  trolley  doors?  Who  is 
Big  George?  Who  are  Tuna,  Titi,  and 
the  Old  Bastard?  Where  on  the  campus 
is  there  a  vineyard?  Which  building  is 
held  up  by  jacks?  And  which  one  has 
gargoyles?  What  was  the  score  of  the 
1943  WPI-Harvard  football  game?  To 
whom  is  the  chairman  of  the  Clark 
Board  of  Trustees  married? 

These  and  35  similar  questions  were 
part  of  a  scavenger  hunt  for  entering 
students  held  during  freshman  orienta- 
tion. In  teams  of  five  or  six,  the  stu- 
dents spent  one  evening  wandering 
around  campus,  vying  for  the  best  score. 

The  informational  scavenger  hunt  was 
first  devised  by  the  Student  Affairs  Of- 
fice last  year,  and  it  has  proved  an  in- 
teresting and  entertaining  way  of  intro- 
ducing new  students  to  some  of  the 
traditions  and  arcane  bits  of  knowledge 
that  contribute  to  enjoying  life  at  WPI. 


We  goofed  . . . 

In  the  August  issue,  we  ran  a  partial  list 
of  alumni  whose  addresses  we  didn't 
have.  Well,  that's  what  we  thought  that 
list  was.  Unfortunately,  it  also  contained 
the  names  of  alumni  who  had  died  in 
the  past  year,  as  well  as  "Class  of  1934 
'34!" 

Our  records  aren't  as  mixed  up  as 
that  list  was.  We  know  who  had  died. 
But  in  between  the  hurry  of  trying  to 
assemble  the  list  as  close  to  publication 
time  as  possible,  the  normal  confusion 
that  occurs  when  a  number  of  the  office 
staff  are  on  vacation  simultaneously,  and 
finally  a  mixup  in  the  computer  program 
that  generated  the  printout — somewhere 
in  all  of  that  we  forgot  one  important 
checking  step  and  all  those  wrong 
names  crept  through  into  publication. 

The  Alumni  Office  prides  itself  on 
the  accuracy  of  its  records  and  the  care 
they  take  in  handling  all  information  re- 
lating to  alumni.  That  only  makes  this 
mistake  that  much  worse. 

On  the  positive  side,  we  were  abso- 
lutely amazed  at  the  number  of  people 
who  discovered  our  errors  and  took  the 
time  to  write  or  call  us  about  them. 
Nothing  the  Journal  has  published  before 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  3 


(except  tor  a  questionnaire  two  years 
ago)  has  generated  that  kind  of  re- 
sponse. Our  thanks  to  all  those  people, 
as  well  as  our  apologies  to  them  and  to 
anyone  else  who  suffered  any  incon- 
venience or  distress  or  offense. 

And  you  can  he  sure  we'll  never  let 
another  listing  go  hv  without  triple- 
checking  it. 

Journal  editor  gets  prize 

Ruth  Trask.  who  compiles  and  writes 
the  class  notes  tor  the  Journal,  leads  a 
second  lite  as  a  successful  and  now 
prize-winning  free-lance  writer.  In  a  re- 
cent contest  sponsored  hy  the  magazine 
Writer's  Digest,  her  short  story  "Moonev 
and  the  Gol  Darned  Old  What's 
Now" — honest,  that's  the  title — came 
in  30th  place  out  of  thousands  of  en- 
tries. The  final  judging  was  hv  the  fic- 
tion editor  ot  The  Atlantic  Monthly. 


Kutli  (who  is  .ilso  wife  ol  Placemen! 
I  )ir «-».  t < >r  William  Irask)  has  hecn  ac- 
tively writing  fiction  foi  about  three 
\t.irs  now,  .iiul  her  work  li.is  been  pub- 
lished nationally.   I  Ins  second  career  is  a 
return  to  one  ol  her  former  activities. 
tor  sin-  holds  a  MA  in  creative  writing 

Ironi   ,\1uldlehiir\    (  ollege.  and   was  at 

one  nine  .1  campus  correspondent  lor 
Mademoiselle. 

It  would  seem,  ion.  thai  Ruth's  talent 
runs  in  the  t.innU    thr  daughter,  (  arrie, 
17   recently  won  second  prize  in  a  na- 
tional  contest  lor  writing  the  best  con- 
clusion to  a    IV  so.ip  opera  which  was 
going  oil  the  ait    I  let  Is  yeat  old 
daughter  I  aurie,  a  freshman  at  (  ai 

Hon  I  Inn  ersit)  in  Pittsburgh,  is  a 

st. ill   writer   tor   the  college   |>a|>ei 


Please  feel  free  to  write  the  Journal  to  ex- 
press your  opinions  and  views  on  WPI  and 
alumni  matters.  Those  letters  which  are  pub- 
lished may  be  edited  for  length  or  to  concen- 
trate on  a  specific  topic.  The  Journal  pub- 
lishes nearly  all  letters  received. 


Burning  request 

Editor:  I  have  just  read  with  considerable 
interest    your   article    "Fire    Up    Above" 
published  in  the  August   1975  issue  of  the 
WPI  Journal. 

I  would  like  to  purchase  100  reprints 
of  this  article  if  you  have  available. 

Cris  H.  Schaefer 

Manager  of  Marketing 

ITT  Suprenant  Division 

Clinton,  Mass. 


Another  limerick 

Editor:  Here's  an  old  limerick  written  in 
linguistic  protest  against  the  non-phonic 
spellings  of  Worcester,  Leicester,  etc. 
It's  not  original,  but  it's  so  old  I 
thought  you  might  find  it  worth 
repeating. 

There  was  a  young  lady  from  Worcester 

Who  ucester  crow  like  a  roocester. 

She  ucester  climb 

Two  trees  at  a  time, 

But  her  sicester  ucester  boocester! 

Charlie  Richardson,  '46 
Huntington  Station,  N.Y. 


Public  vs.  private  . . . 

Editor:  Although  I  write  this  as  a  private 
citizen,  I  am  also  an  alumnus  of  WPI 
and  an  associate  dean  of  engineering  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
Amherst. 

This  letter  is  in  response  to  that 
submitted  by  T.  J.  Denney  of  WPI  in 
the  August  Journal.  Tech  must  really  be 
on  hard  times  when  its  top  personnel 
are  willing  to  become  so  sloppy  in  their 
analyses  that  they  allow  false  and 
misleading  information  to  help  support 
cases  they  make  to  the  public  —  this 
time  WPI  alumni.  In  his  article,  Denney 
says  the  following: 

1.  The  combined  expenditure 
per  student  tor  1975  is 
estimated  as  follows: 
University  of  Massachusetts 
(Includes  medical  school) 
$7,514." 

I  suspect  I  know  how  Denney  got 
his    figure    but,    for    the    information    of 
those   who   read    the  Journal,    the   State- 
appropriated  operating  budget  for  the 
Amherst  campus  ot  UMass  for  last  year 
was  approximately  $70  million  and  this 
was  for  23,000  students,  undergraduate 
and  graduate,  making  the  costs  far  lower 
than  anv  of  those  cited  in  the  article. 
Denney  also  overlooked  approximately 
$250  in  required  fees  charged  students 
over  and  above  the  $300  tuittion 
charge  and  neglected  to  comment  on 
the  fact  that  room  and  board  costs  are 
completely  carried  by  the  student. 

2.  "Colleges  and  universities  in 
the  state  system  are  funded 
by  the  Commonwealth.  The 
more  students  they  register, 
the  more  they  get  — 
automatically." 

The  implication  is,  ol  course,  that  the 
tuitions  revert  to  the  institution  and  this 
is  incorrect.  All  tuitions  collected  revert 
to  the  general  fund  ol  the 
(  ommonwealth.    Io  be  sure,  in  the  past, 
the  University  was  funded  on  the  basis 
<<\  ,i   IS:  I  student  to  faculty  ratio  but 
Denney  neglects  to  note  that  the 
support  in  the  critical  accounts  like 
equipment,  supplies,  services,  etc.,  never 

really  did  keep  pace  with  the  rapidly 
glowing  student  body  although  I  must 
admit  the  faculty  s.il.u\   .mounts  did. 

I  Ins  year,  however,  legislative  and 
executive  actions  completely  belie  the 
I  )enney  remark. 


4     Octotm  1975      WPI  Journal 


The  whole  discussion  of  public  versus 
rivate  must  be  taken  in  historical  per- 
pective.  I  am  sympathetic  to  the  private 
istitutions  and  feel  strongly  that  good 
nes  like  Tech  must  be  protected.  There 
re  marginal  ones  that  1  am  not  so  sym- 
athetic  about.  But,  where  were  the 
ri\ate  schools  as  recently  as  10  years 
go? 

A  Massachusetts  Board  of  Higher 
ducation  Report  dated  January,  1969 
idicated  that  there  would  be  a  deficit 
i  spaces  for  students  in  higher 
ducation  of  20.000  in  1969  and  that 
us  would  increase  to  60,000  in  1975 
nd  113,000  in  1980.  Private  in- 
itutions  indicated  at  that  time  that  they 
nticipated  only  limited  expansion  to  ac- 
jmmodate  these  deficits.  It  is  easy  on 
le  basis  of  hindsight  to  criticize  but 
ny  good  engineering  analysis  would 
ave  recommended  an  increase  in  the 
ze  of  the  public  sector  under  those  cir- 
jmstances.  Especially,  since  at  that 
me.  Massachusetts  exported  (and  I 
elieve  still  does)  more  students  outside 
le  Commonwealth  for  education  than 
educates  at  home.  In  fact,  ten  years 
jo,  private  institutions  were  not  as 
hilanthropic  as  they  have  become 
)dav  under  economic  pressures.  Tech 
ould  have  turned  up  its  nose  at  some 
f  the  students  we  accepted  at  UMass 
ver  the  years. 

If  private  education  wants  public 
lonies,  it  must  be  willing  to  forego 
>me  privileges  in  return.  We,  at 
IMass,  take  95%  of  our  undergraduate 
tudent  body  from  the  Commonwealth 
f  Massachusetts  —  Tech  considers  it- 
elf  national.  We  are  accountable  to  the 
.•gislative  and  executive  branches  of 
tate  government  for  expenditure  of  our 
unds  —  Tech  answers  only  to  its 
rustees. 

I  regret  having  to  respond  so  sharply 
o  my  alma  mater  but  the  words  of  the 
•pod  Admiral  Cluverius,  president  of 
VPI  when  I  was  there,  still  ring  in  my 
ars:   "Men  ot    lech,  we  must  aiwavs  be 
nen  ot  integrity 

Joe  Marcus,  '44 
Amherst,  Mass. 


...  vs.  public 

Editor:  You  were  thoughtful  to  share 
with  me  Mr.  Marcus'  reply  to  mv 
earlier  letter  which  appeared  in  trie 
Journal. 

Mr.  Marcus  is  quick  to  point  out 
that  the  operating  budget  for  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  last  year 
was  approximately  $70,000,000.  But 
he  does  not  include  the  actual  amounts 
spent:   $78.3  million  for  operation. 
$47.5  million  for  debt,  $6.9  million  for 
retirement  and  $1.7  million  for  . 
insurance,  for  a  grand  total  of  $134.4 
million  of  taxpayers'  dollars  expended. 
The  cost  for  a  full-time-equivalent 
student  was  $5,140.  Based  on  an 
enrollment  of  29,548,  the  combined 
taxpayers-student  expenditure  for  the 
year  1975  was  $7,514. 

I  was  in  error  in  my  earlier  figure  of 
$7,514,  for  it  was  not  annotated  to 
show  it  as  a  combined  taxpayers-student 
expenditure.  (These  figures  were 
compiled  by  John  Silber,  president  of 
Boston  University,  and  presented  to  the 
Education  Committee  of  the  General 
Court  of  Massachusetts.) 

One  of  the  nagging  problems  in 
discussion  of  tax-supported  and 
independent  institutions  is  the  validity 
of  the  figures  used.  I  suspect  the 
arguments  concerning  questions  of 
applying  capital  expenditures,  full-time- 
equivalent  rather  than  full-time  students, 
and  services  provided  by  the  state  and 
not  charged  back  to  the  university  will 
continue.  In  spite  of  this,  one  fact 
remains  perfectly  clear.  The  cost  of 
education,  whether  in  private  or  tax- 
supported  institutions,  is  approximately 
the  same.  The  price  in  the  tax-supported 
institutions  to  the  student  is  $350. 

Mr.  Marcus  finds  fault  with  the 
statement  that  the    "Colleges  and 
universities  in  the  state  system  are 
funded  by  the  Commonwealth.  The 
more  students  they  register,  the  more 
they  get  —  automatically.''  He  goes  on 
to  point  out  that  this  is  related  directly 
to  faculty  salaries  but  does  not  include 
support  in  other  areas.  The  legislative 
Budget  Analyst  and  Research  Assistant, 
responding  to  a  request  from  Senator 
James  Kelly  of  the  Ways  and  Means 
Committee,  reported:    "Each  fiscal  \e.ir. 

the  legislature  appropriates  dollars  lor 
higher  education  based  on  numbers  <>l 

Students."    Hie  report  goes  on  to 


recommend  that  dollars  for  higher 
education  can  no  longer  be  appropriated 
based  on  enrollment  and  aggregate 
totals  of  proposed  new  students.  It  also 
argues  that  expansion  ot  public  higher 
education  be  allowed  only  after  efforts 
to  contract  services  from  private  schools 
are  exhausted. 

Mr.  Marcus'  projections  tor  the  needs 
ot  higher  education  in  the  Com- 
monwealth are  outdated.  He  quoted  a 
1969  report  which  has  since  been 
discarded  by  educators  and  planners 
because  of  the  dramatic  changes  in  birth 
rates.  There  were  115,000  live  births  in 
1960,  92.000  in  1970  and  75.000  in 
1973.  A  drop  of  40,000  in  births  per 
year  between  1960  and  1973.  Yet  $600 
million  in  new  bond  issues  was  ap- 
propriated by  the  General  Court  to 
finance  further  expansion  ot  state- 
subsidized  higher  education. 

My  comments  should  not  be  in- 
terpreted as  being  critical  ot  the  fine 
services  provided  the  citizens  of  this 
state  by  the  tax-supported  educational 
institutions  within  it.  Clearly,  govern- 
ment has  met  a  need  which  private  in- 
stitutions were  unable  to  fulfill. 
However,  state  support  of  education  has 
been  built  on  a  philosophy  which 
guarantees  a  taxpayers'  scholarship  to 
the  student  whether  or  not  he  or  slu- 
actually  needs  it.  Taxpayers'  money  has 
built  and  supported  this  system  and  in 
the  process  the  private  institutions  ot 
the  Commonwealth,  which  have  served 
so  well  for  so  many  years  at  not  cost  to 
the  taxpayer,  may  quicklv  become  an 
endangered  species  unless  a  sound  lisc.il 
balance  is  established  between  the  two 
systems. 

Thomas  /.  Denney 

Vice  President  foi  University 
Relations,  \\  I 'I 


WPI  Journal     October  1975     5 


Committee  calls  for  Trustee 
nominations 

For  approximately  fifty  years,  the  Board 
of  Trustees  ot  WPI  has  granted  to  the 
Alumni  Association  die  privilege  of  re- 
commending to  the  Board  three  candi- 
dates per  year  tor  Alumni  Term  Trustee 
positions.  This  provides  a  total  ot  titteen 
alumni  members  ot  the  Board  who  serve 
tor  a  term  of  five  years  and  may  he  re- 
elected once.  WPI  is  fortunate  to  have 
one  of  the  largest  percentages  ot  alumni 
on  the  Board  ot  Trustees  among  col- 
leges of  comparable  size  in  the  country. 

For  the  past  tour  years  the  Bv-laws 
of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  have 
provided  tor  a  Trustee  Search  Commit- 
tee which  is  charged  with  the  responsi- 
bility ot  recommending  annually  to  the 
Alumni  Council  the  name  ot  at  least 
one  alumnus  tor  each  alumni  vacancy 
which  exists  on  the  WPI   Board  of 
Trustees.  The  committee  is  composed  ot 
live  members  representing  five  decades 
of  alumni.  The  Alumni  Council  each 
M.iv    nominates  a  candidate  tor  each  ot 
the  three  positions  and  forwards  these 
nominations  to  the  Board  itself  tor  elec- 
tion. 

In  lime   I97t>.  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37. 
Howard  (  .  Warren,  '42.  and  lames  |. 
(  lerkin.   Ir..   '4S  will   be  completing  their 
five  year  terms  on  the  Bo.ird.  Only  Mr. 
Warren  is  eligible  tor  re-election,  tor 
Mr.   Harvey  and  Mr.  (  lerkin  have  com- 
pleted two  consecutive  live  year  terms 
and  .ire  now    ineligible  according  to  the 

B) -I  aws. 

The  By-Laws  provide  that   there  are 
two  distinct  ways  in  which  alumni  may 
participate  in  the  selection  ot  alumni 
members  ol  the  Board  <>l   trustees,  first 
is  dn-  actual  proposal  of  an  alumnus  t<> 

the  Alumni  (  ouikil   through   the  sub- 
mission ot  ,i  signed  proposal.    I  he 
mechanics  ol  proposal  are  threefold. 
Alumni  chapters  may  propose  candidates 
to  the  (  ouncil  In  submitting  a  signed 
I > r . •  | *« » -»-•  I  with  fifteen  signatures  in  more, 


6     Ortoher  197',      WPI  Journal 


together  with  a  statement  by  the  candi- 
date ot  his  willingness  to  serve,  to  the 
Trustee  Search  Committee.  A  second 
method  is  for  any  group  of  at  least 
twenty-five  alumni  to  propose  a  candi- 
date bv  submitting  a  signed  proposal, 
together  with  a  statement  by  the  can- 
didate of  his  willingness  to  serve,  to  the 
Trustee  Search  Committee.  For  1976 
these  proposals  must  be  received  by  the 
Trustee  Search  Committee  in  care  of  the 
Secretary-Treasurer  ot  the  Alumni  As- 
sociation on  or  before  November  15, 
1975. 

The  second  method  tor  alumni  to 
participate  in  the  Trustee  selection  pro- 
cess is  by  suggesting  names  ot  alumni 
directly  to  the  Trustee  Search  Commit- 
tee itself.  Each  year  there  is  a  significant 
input  of  new  names  to  the  committee 
from  which  point  they  are  researched 
and  involved  by  the  committee  as  is 
deemed  appropriate.  It  is  the  hope  of 
the  committee  that  a  large  reservoir  of 
potential  candidates  who  would  be 
honored  by  this  consideration  can  be 
maintained.  Please  contact  any  member 
of  the  Committee  with  such  names  or 
submit  the  names  to  Stephen  ).  Hebert 
'66,  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  c/o 
WPI  Alumni  Office. 

The  third  method  is  for  the  Trustee 
Search  Committee  itself,  which  has  the 
responsibility  of  assuring  that  there  is  at 
least  one  candidate  for  each  position,  to 
propose  candidates. 

Formal  notice  is  hereby  given  that 
petitions  for  proposing  alumni  for  posi- 
tions on  the  Board  of  Trustees  are  now 
being  received  and  may  be  received  by 
the  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer  on  or 
before  November  15,  1975.  Sample 
forms  for  the  proposal  ot  candidates  are 
available  upon  request  from  the  Alumni 
Secretary-Treasurer. 

Tile  Committee  thanks  all  alumni  ot 
WPI  tor  their  interest  and  involvement 
in  this  most  important  area  which  pro- 
vides for  the  best  possible  members  to 
be  elected  to  the  Board  ot  Trustees  ol 
their  Alma  Mater.  The  Committee  tor 
the   1975-76  year  is  composed  ol  C. 
I  ugene  (  enter,  '30,  Pittsburgh,  Pa., 
(  hairman ;   Francis  S.  Harvey.  '37, 
Worcester,  Mass.:    William  A.   lulian, 
'49,  Mclean,  Va.;   George  E.  Saltus, 
'53,   Boulder.  (  olo.;    Paul  W.   Bavliss, 
'60,   Pennington,  NJ.i    and  William   I. 
Hakkinen,  '70,  Ledyard,  Conn. 


r\* 


•«»t  ■•*«, 


\  / 


The  cycle  begins  again 


as  a  new  class  of 
entering  students 
begins  its  WPI  stay 


—  •  ^ 

■ 
■ 

**Jtf^                 1 

1 

• 
E 

John  Brandon,  WPI  directoi  o)  admissions,  joined  the  WPI 
sidfl  just  ovet  a  yeai  </</i'.  •*<>  the  (.lass  of  '70,  which  he 
describes  m  tin*'  article,  is  his  first  class  tit  WPI.  Brandon  is  a 
graduate  <>/  Brown  University  </»/</  holds  ,i  master's  degree  from 
Stanford. 


by  John  Brandon 

AND  THEREFORE,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  according 
to  the  collective  wisdom  of  the  Admissions  Office, 
you  represent  the  best  class  ever  at  this  college." 

Any  college,  any  year  up  until  the  1970s.  The  words 
rang  in  our  ears,  and  as  freshmen  many  of  us  took  ever 
so  seriously  the  responsibilities  for  achievement  implicit  in 
that  assessment  of  us.  Not  only  were  we  expected  to  live 
up  to  the  standards  of  our  chosen  alma  mater,  but  now 
we  were  told  that  we  would  set  new  and  higher 
standards  for  future  classes  to  come.  That  was  heady  stuff 
for  an  18-year-old. 

Unfortunately,  however,  there  were  some  of  us  who 
returned  to  campus  early  the  next  year  for  cross-country 
or  football  practice  and  inadvertently  dropped  in  on 
freshman  orientation.  Our  complacent  naivete  was 
shattered  by  hearing  the  familiar  words  spoken  to  the 
new  class:   "And  therefore,  ladies  and  gentlemen,  accord- 
ing  to  the  collective  wisdom  .  .  .  ." 

From  the  admissions  point  of  view,  those  were  good 
days  indeed.  For  the  past  several  years,  at  colleges 
throughout  the  land,  there  have  been  few  "best  class 
ever"  discussions.  These  have  been  replaced  with 
questions  of  "Did  you  fill  your  entering  class?"  and 
"How?"  At  WPI  this  year,  the  class  of  '79  may  indeed 
be  among  the  best  classes  ever  to  enter  the  college.  And 
it  certainly  did  get  filled. 

Last  year's  entering  class  numbered  520  students.  Our 
goal  this  year  was  slightly  higher,  about  550.  We  found, 
though,  that  we  weren't  able  to  "turn  the  spigot  off 
quickly  enough,  and  the  number  of  new  students  stands 
at   S95. 

The  class  of  '79  is  an  interesting  aggregate  of  individ- 
uals .  .  .  or  an  aggregate  of  interesting  individuals,  to  put 
it  another  way.  Statistically,  they  look  like  this: 

•  40%  of  the  class  ranks  in  the  top  10%  of  their  high 
school  graduating  class. 

•  More  than  80%  rank  in  the  top  30%  of  their  high 
school  class. 

•  24  states  and  14  foreign  countries  are  represented.  At  a 
time  when  geographical  distribution  is  shrinking  at 
most  colleges,  the  number  of  students  from  outside  the 
Northeast  is  growing  at  WPI.  But  we  are  still  a  very 
northeastern  institution  in  terms  ol  the  homes  of  the 

<  >\  ii  whelming  majority  of  the  class. 


8  i  October  1975      WPI  Journal 


I  The  class  is  15%  larger  than  last  year's.  At  other  engi- 
neering schools,  the  number  of  entering  students  is 
about  the  same  or  slightly  greater  than  last  year, 
indicating  a  somewhat  renewed  interest  in  the  field. 
But  none  of- these  institutions  that  I  am  aware  of  has 
reported  an  increase  of  the  size  we  have  experienced 
here  at  WP1. 

*  There  are  more  women  in  the  new  class  than  any 
other  in  WPI's  short  history  of  coeducation.  And  they 

:  are  an  extremely  well-prepared  group  of  students.  The 
65  women  include  more  than  half  the  high  school 

,  valedictorians  and  salutatorians  entering  WPI  this  fall. 
Their  scores  on  the  math  sections  of  the  College  Board 

I  tests  are  comparable  to  those  for  men  students  (and  as 

f  a  total  group,  the  median  score  for  the  Class  of  '79 

1  was  nearly  200  points  higher  than  the  national  median 
for  all  students  taking  the  exam).  The  women, 
however,  scored  significantly  higher  on  the  verbal  and 
composition  exams.  With  a  600  median  English 

'  composition  score,  our  entering  women  are  the  first 
identifiable  subgroup  at  WPI  to  achieve  that  level. 
Mathematics  medians  have  long  been  and  continue  to 
be  in  the  high  600s,  bordering  on  700  for  the  Level 
II  test.  (All  College  Board  tests,  incidentally,  are 
scored  with  a  maximum  of  800  and  a  minimum  of 
200.) 

One  of  the  new  women  students,  from  Norman, 
dahoma,  is  one  of  the  first  fifteen  recipients  nationwide 
a  scholarship  from  the  Society  of  Women  Engineers. 


5 


UT  CLASS  RANKS  and  test  scores  have  never  told 
the  whole  story  of  an  entering  class.    In  assessing 
I  Hr  general  level  of  preparedness,  Dean  of  Academic 
|  (vising  John  van  Alstyne  notes  that  they  include  the 
igest  number  ever  to  submit  advanced  placement  exams 
[  )llege  credit  for  work  done  while  in  high  school).  After 
iving  helped  them  with  their  initial  course  selection, 
1  'an  van  Alstyne  credits  them  with  a  great  deal  of  self- 
|  nfidence  in  coming  to  grips  with  the  difficult  task  of 
Signing  their  college  programs. 
I  They're  workers,  too.  Some  40%  have  held  part- 
lie  jobs  while  in  school,  and  the  figure  nearly  doubles 
I  you  add  in  one  summer's  employment.  One-sixth  of 
p  class  were  on  the  staff  of  their  school  newspapers, 
id  they  include  21  editors-in-chief.  More  than  a  quarter 
{.  active  in  musical  organizations.  Some  20%  were  in 
ieir  student  governments,  and  enough  student  body 
lesidents  entered  WPI  to  make  campus  politics  very 
i.eresting  indeed  if  they  maintain  their  interests. 

Athletics  continues  to  be  the  largest  nonacademic  area 
[  interest.  At  last  count,  nearly  half  the  new  students 
fd  participated  in  some  form  of  organized  or  semi- 
fganized  sports.  Whether  or  not  enough  of  them  wore 
fotball  uniforms  to  bring  a  winning  season  to  WPI  is  an 
«-vet  unanswered  question,  but  the  New  York  All-City 
larterback  from  Brooklyn  Technical  High  School  is 
fliong  the  595.  The  undefeated  track  team  has  some  fine 
lent  coming  its  way  to  help  in  efforts  to  duplicate  last 
ar's  record  season.  The  Chess  Club  should  have  some 
teresting  times,  too,  helped  by  a  new  student  who  is 
nked  among  the  top  70  players  in  the  United  States. 


Because  of  the  strong  element  of  self-motivation 
required  of  each  student  under  the  WPI  Plan,  academic 
ability  alone  is  often  not  enough.  For  a  student  to  do 
well  and  enjoy  his  educational  experience  under  the  Plan, 
he  or  she  needs  a  certain  amount  of  maturity,  initiative, 
and  curiosity  (though  this  is  hardly  a  comprehensive  list). 
It  has  been  our  experience  in  admissions  that  one  of  the 
best  indicators  of  these  factors  is  prior  experience  with 
projects  and  similar  activities.  These  range  from  the 
student  who  has  redesigned  the  frame  of  his  motocross 
bike  more  times  than  he  can  remember  to  a  student 
whose  science-fair-winning  project  took  him  to  national 
competition  with  the  possibility  of  a  trip  to  London. 
Some  20%  of  the  class  reported  activity  like  this,  and  it 
certainly  bodes  well  for  their  success  at  WPI.  This  year, 
three  students  from  the  Springfield,  Massachusetts,  area 
were  winners  in  the  state  science  fair  competition. 
Numbers  1  and  3  have  entered  WPI;   MIT  had  to  settle 
for  number  2. 

BUT  WHAT  does  the  admissions  picture  look  like 
for  next  year,  and  for  the  future?  Because  of  the 
uncertain  state  of  the  economy,  a  generally  declining 
interest  in  college-going  among  young  people,  and  a 
student-age  population  that  has  now  peaked  in  numbers 
and  will  decline  dramatically  in  the  next  decade,  it's  very 
difficult  to  attempt  prediction.  While  it  is  reasonable  to 
expect  that  WPI  will  continue  to  draw  large  numbers  of 
students  from  the  Northeast,  our  goal  must  be  to  broaden 
the  potential  applicant  pool  if  we  are  to  continue  our 
present  success.  Our  strongest  asset  is  the  WPI  Plan, 
which  is  already  instrumental  in  attracting  an  extremely 
high  caliber  of  student  and  one  who  sees  WPI  as  a  place 
where  he  or  she  can  obtain  an  educational  background 
superior  to  and  different  from  that  available  anywhere 
else. 

When  the  WPI  faculty  adopted  the  WPI  Plan  as  the 
future  course  of  the  college,  it  did  so  out  of  the 
conviction  that  the  traditional  engineering  and  science 
program  could  and  should  be  improved  upon.  The 
success  of  the  Plan  —  the  professional  competence  and 
social  awareness  of  our  recent  graduates  —  is  increasingly 
manifest,  and  that  is  the  real  reason  we  can  be  optimistic 
that  WPI  will  prosper  and  our  proud  tradition  of 
excellence  will  continue. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  9 


God 

and 

EPA 


as  read  into  the  Congressional  Record  by 
the  Hon.  Andrew  J.  Hinshaw,  of  Cali- 
fornia, in  the  House  of  Representatives 
on  October  10,  1974. 


In  the  beginning  God  created 
heaven  and  earth. 

He  was  then  faced  with  a  class 
action  lawsuit  for  failing  to  file  an 
environmental  impact  statement  with 
HEPA  (Heavenly  Environmental 
Protection  Agency),  an  angelically 
staffed  agency  dedicated  to  keeping 
the  Universe  pollution  free. 

God  was  granted  a  temporary 
permit  for  the  heavenly  portion  of 
the  project,  but  was  issued  a  cease 
and  desist  order  on  the  earthly  part, 
pending  further  investigation  by 
HEPA. 

Upon  completion  of  his  con- 
struction permit  application  and  en- 
vironmental impact  statement,  God 
appeared  before  the  HEPA  Council 
to  answer  questions. 

When  asked  why  he  began  these 
projects  in  the  first  place,  he  simply 
replied  that  he  liked  to  be  creative. 

This  was  not  considered  adequate 
reasoning  and  he  would  be  required 
to  substantiate  this  further. 

HEPA  was  unable  to  see  any 
practical  use  for  earth  since  "the 
earth  was  void  and  empty  and  dark- 
ness was  upon  the  face  of  the  deep." 

Then  God  said:   "Let  there  be 

light." 

He  should  never  have  brought  up 
(his  |*>int  since  one  member  of  the 
(  ouikiI  was  active  in  the  Sierrangel 

(  liib  and  immediately  protested, 

asking  "How   was  the  light   tO   be 
made  ?"   \\  Ollld   llicrc  be  strip 
mining?  What  about  thermal 

pollution?"  God  explained  the  Ii^Ih 

would  Kiinc   Iroin  a   luigr   ball  of   fire. 


Nobody  on  the  Council  really  un- 
derstood this,  but  it  was  provision- 
ally accepted  assuming  (1)  there 
would  be  no  smog  or  smoke 
resulting  from  the  ball  of  fire,  (2)  a 
separate  burning  permit  would  be 
required,  and  (3)  since  continuous 
light  would  be  a  waste  of  energy  it 
should  be  dark  at  least  one  half  of 
the  time. 

So  God  agreed  to  divide  light  and 
darkness  and  he  would  call  the  light 
Day  and  the  darkness  Night.  (The 
Council  expressed  no  interest  with 
in-house  semantics.) 

When  asked  how  the  earth  would 
be  covered,  God  said,  "Let  there  be 
firmament  made  amidst  the  waters; 
and  let  it  divide  the  waters  from  the 
waters." 

One  ecologically  radical  Council 
member  accused  him  of  double  talk, 
but  the  council  tabled  action  since 
God  would  be  required  first  to  file 
for  a  permit  from  the  ABLM 
(Angelic  Bureau  of  Land 
Management)  and  further  would  be 
required  to  obtain  water  permits 
from  appropriate  agencies  involved. 

The  Council  asked  if  there  would 
be  only  water  and  firmament  and 
God  said,  "Let  the  earth  bring  forth 
the  green  herb,  and  such  as  may 
seed,  and  the  fruit  tree  yielding  fruit 
alter  its  kind,  which  may  have  seen 
itself  upon  the  earth." 

Hie  Council  agreed,  as  long  as 
native  seed  would  be  used. 

About  future  development  God 
also  said:    "Let  the  waters  bring  forth 
the  creeping  creature  having  life,  and 


the  fowl  that  may  fly  over  the 
earth." 

Here  again,  the  Council  took  no 
formal  action  since  this  would 
require  approval  of  the  Fish  and 
Game  Commission  coordinated  with 
the  Heavenly  Wildlife  Federation 
and  the  Audubongelic  Society. 

It  appeared  everything  was  in  or- 
der until  God  stated  he  wanted  to 
complete  the  project  in  6  days. 

At  this  time  he  was  advised  by 
the  Council  that  his  timing  was  com- 
pletely out  of  the  question  .  .  . 
HEPA  would  require  a  minimum  of 
180  days  to  review  the  application 
and  environmental  impact  statement, 
then  there  would  be  public  hearings. 

It  would  take  10  to  12  months 
before  a  permit  could  be  granted. 

God  said,  "To  Hell  with  it!" 

UIP 


10     October  1975  I  WPI  Journal 


lelped  provide  a  better 
Tome  for  thousands  of 
ish  in  Old  Hickory 


Reservoir. 


Frank  DeCaria  holds  a  BS-ChE 
m  West  Virginia  University.  He's  twenty-four 
jrs  old  and  has  worked  at  Du  Pont's  Old  Hickory 
nt  near  Nashville  for  just  over  two  years  now 

When  Frank  joined  Du  Pont,  he 
mediately  went  to  work  on  the  start-up  of  a 
n  waste  treatment  plant.  The  resulting  system 
)vides  a  cleaner  environment  for  thousands 
Dass,  bluegill,  and  carp.  In  addition,  his  work 
>  helped  concentrate  trace  quantities  of  scarce 
iterials  to  recoverable  levels. 

At  the  moment,  Frank  is  a  member 
a  team  working  to  make  the  waste 

ratment  plant  even  more  efficient. 
1983,  he  expects  that  the  BOD 
charge  rate  will  have  been  further 
I  luced  to  less  than  1 0%  of  its 
}  "rent  level. 

i|       Frank's  contribution  is  not 
Jique.  Du  Pont  has  a  reputation 
k  getting  young  engineers  into 
I;  mainstream  quickly. 

If  you'd  like  to  work  for  a 
impany  where  contributions 
i  illy  count  and  where  you're 
1  Dre  than  just  another  number 
j  a  computer  printout,  do  what 
|ank  did.  Talk  to  your  Du  Pont 
jrsonnel  Representative.  He'll 
iow  you  how  to  help  yourself 
diile  helping  others.  Du  Pont  Co., 
ln.24113,WilmingtonlDE.  19898. 

\  Du  Pont. .  .there's  a  world  of  things 
u  can  do  something  about 


0 


"EG  US.  PAT  OFF 


An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer,  M/F. 


From  kosher  catering 

to  WPI 

and  back  again 


IF  THE  WOMAN  WHO  LIVED  IN  THE  SHOE  had 
married  Ronald  Sarver,  '74,  she  never  would  have 
needed  to  worry  about  feeding  all  those  children  before 
they  went  to  bed.  Ronnie's  Catering,  Inc.,  and  Ronnie's 
Kosher  Deli  &  Restaurant,  businesses  which  Sarver  owns 
and  operates  in  Randolph,  Mass.,  would  take  care  of  it  all. 

Sarver  serves  thousands  of  people  every  week  through 
his  various  enterprises.  Nearly  800  people  eat  at  his 
restaurant  every  day.  Over  Memorial  Day  weekend,  he 
served  4,200  at  a  regular  round-robin  of  weddings,  parties, 
and  Bar  Mitzvahs  which  he  catered  all  the  way  from 
Greater  Boston  to  Worcester. 

"We  had  to  rent  four  extra  trucks  to  keep  up  with  the 
deliveries  over  the  weekend,"  Sarver  says,  "even  though 
we  have  trucks  of  our  own.  And  we  had  to  employ  88  ex- 
tra people  as  part-time  help." 

At  these  special  occasions  the  spread  is  considerably 
more  lavish  than  chicken  soup  and  bagels.  "At  a  typical 
Jewish  wedding  we  go  all  out,"  he  declares.  "Customers 
usually  want  fourteen  appetizers,  fresh  fruit,  roast  prime 
ribs  of  beef,  baked  potato,  asparagus,  fancy  fondues,  and 
flaming  desserts."  Sarver  usually  presides  himself  at  the 
biggest  affairs,  resplendent  in  red  jacket,  blue  ruffled  shirt, 
and  spanking  white  bow  tie.  He  is  a  stickler  for  detail.  The 
hot  foods  must  be  hot;  the  cold  foods  cold.  The  service 
has  to  be  fast,  courteous,  and  performed  with  a  smile;  the 
cleanup,  quick. 

"Just  handling  the  logistics  for  this  business  keeps  me 
going  about  70  hours  a  week,"  says  Sarver,  who  never 
finds  time  to  clock-watch,  and  who  tools  around  the  state 
in  a  telephone-equipped  Mercedes  Benz  so  that  he  can 
keep  on  top  of  things. 

Ronnie  Sarver  has  been  on  top  of  things  ever  since  he 
turned  12  and  got  a  sub  shop  summer  job  at  Nantasket 
Beach.  At  16  he  started  his  own  catering  business  in  Hull. 
This  was  purely  a  home-based  operation  until  one  day  his 
mother  returned  home  and  discovered  that  most  of  her  fur- 
niture had  been  moved  against  the  walls  and  that  her  kit- 
chen was  overflowing  with  knishes,  pastrami,  varieties  of 
rye  and  cissel,  and  roast  beef.  The  living  room  was  stacked 
with  paper  goods.  "She  evicted  me,"  Sarver  chuckles. 


In  order  to  get  his  growing  business  under  cover,  he 
rented  an  abandoned  store  on  Nantasket  Avenue  in  Hu 
a  move  which  brought  him  immediate  success  when  he 
vertised  chicken  or  brisket  dinners  for  $1.75.  By  the  tirrn 
he  graduated  from  high  school,  customers  were  standing 
long  lines  waiting  to  eat  everything  he  had  to  offer. 

Sarver  took  his  catering  know-how  along  with  him  to 
WPI,  where  he  began  studying  mathematics  with  the 
thought  of  someday  becoming  an  actuary.  At  Tech  he  w; 
in  complete  charge  of  meals  and  housing  at  Higgins  Hou 
when  students  lived  there.  "But  outside  catering  kept 
becoming  a  bigger  and  bigger  part  of  my  life,"  he  recalls 
"I  was  studying  in  Worcester  and  catering  in  Hull.  It  got 
to  be  pretty  hectic." 

While  still  a  student  he  was  grossing  $20,000  a  year 
and  even  had  the  good  fortune  of  winning  $2,500  in  the 
state  lottery.  (That  $2,500,  plus  interest,  is  still  in  the 
bank.)  "I  took  a  real  ribbing  about  winning  the  lottery," 
he  laughs,  especially  since  I  had  just  upped  my  sandwich 
prices  by  10  cents." 

Finally,  half  way  through  his  junior  year,  Sarver  left 
WPI.  It  was  obvious  that  his  future  didn't  lie  with  the 
study  of  math.  Also,  he  says,  "the  business  kept  rolling  in 
so  fast  I  couldn't  keep  up  with  it.  And  the  time  was  right 
People  in  catering  were  retiring  and  good  opportunities 
were  coming  up." 

SARVER  HAS  NEVER  regretted  his  days  at  WPI, 
however.  "Being  exposed  to  an  engineering  way  of 
thinking  has  helped  me  immensely,"  he  declares.  "I  can 
look  at  things  more  logically  and  work  out  problems  that 
never  would  have  been  able  to  solve  otherwise." 

A  case  in  point  is  his  new  commissary  in  Randolph, 
which  he  personally  designed.  "The  contractors  probably 
all  ended  up  hating  me,"  he  admits.  "I  knew  just  what  I 
wanted,  where  I  wanted  it  installed,  and  why." 

He  smiles.  "What  mechanical  knowledge  I  gained  at 
Tech  has  come  in  handy,  too.  Especially  when  something 
like  the  cash  register,  the  coffee  urn,  or  the  dishwasher 
goes  on  the  blink.  I  can  usually  fix  appliances  myself,  on 
the  spot,  or  I  can  tell  the  repairman  what  is  wrong  and 
how  to  fix  it.  You'd  be  surprised  how  few  caterers  have 
this  kind  of  know-how.  It  really  gives  me  an  advantage." 


12  I  October  1975  I  WPI  Journal 


Ronnie's  mother,  Judith,  supervises  the  kitchens  and  has 
jssed  on  favorite  recipes  which  her  mother  created  when 
ije  was  the  cook  at  the  old  Rose  Gordon  Hotel  in  Nan- 
i.ket.  Advice,  too,  comes  from  his  father,  Samuel,  who  is 

th  Boston  meat  suppliers  Morrison  &  Schiff.  His  twin 
\  cles  have  delicatessen  backgrounds.  On  especially  busy 
1  ekends  everybody  pitches  in,  including  his  aunt  and 
•  lother)  uncle  and  his  older  sister.  "One  could  honestly 
•:  '  that  this  business  is  'all  in  the  family',"  he  quips. 
,    Ronnie's  Catering,  Inc.,  is  not  like  the  usual  catering 
I  vice.  "It's  strictly  kosher,"  reports  Sarver.  "Still,  about 
:   percent  of  our  restaurant  clientele  and  10  percent  of 
r  catering  clientele  is  non-Jewish,"  he  adds. 
With  a  twinkle  in  his  eye,  Ron  recalls  one  young  man 
o  attended  a  function  that  he  was  catering.  The  menu 
s  sumptuous,  as  usual,  and  the  guest  looked  longingly  at 
•  food  on  display,  but  he  didn't  take  anything  to  eat. 
/hat's  the  matter,"  Sarver  asked.  "Why  aren't  you 

!"g?  „ 

"Oh,"  groaned  the  man,  "1  can't.  This  food  is  kosher 

i  I'm  Catholic." 

Sarver  laughed  and  told  him  about  all  the  non-Jewish 

Dple  who  have  eaten  his  food.  The  guest  breathed  a  sigh 

relief  and  filled  his  plate. 

Because  it  is  kosher,  Sarver's  establishment  is  under 

ly  rabbinical  supervision  and  has  been  approved  by  the 

snruth  Commission  of  the  Associated  Synagogues  of 

issachusetts.  In  kosher  restaurants  either  a  meat  or  dairy 

nu  may  be  used  exclusively  to  avoid  the  possibility  of 

:  dairy  and  meat  utensils  getting  mixed.  Sarver  says, 

onnie's  serves  only  meat  products.  You  cannot  get  a 

gel  and  cream  cheese  (only  margarine),  a  glass  of  milk, 

anything  dairy  at  my  restaurant." 

In  the  Boston  area  many  Orthodox  Jews  still  adhere  to 

;  kosher  tradition.  Sarver  judges  that  in  recent  weeks  he 

rchased  some  300  pounds  of  chopped  liver,  1000 

unds  of  corned  beef,  and  600  roasting  chickens  to  meet 

:  demand.  He  also  provides  food  for  students  keeping 


kosher  at  M.I.T.  with  the  students  heating  the  food  them- 
selves in  their  own  kitchen.  "It's  one  of  the  few  kosher 
kitchens  in  New  England  on  a  college  campus,"  Sarver 
reveals.  "And  we  give  them  a  bonus.  We  make  kosher 
Chinese  food  for  them  by  substituting  veal  for  pork  and 
making  chicken  'wonton'  soup." 

Sarver  has  had  other  unusual  jobs.  He  has  catered  for 
former  Massachusetts  governor  Sargent  in  a  private  home 
in  Randolph,  at  a  reception  for  opera  star  Jan  Peerce  when 
he  was  appearing  at  the  South  Shore  Music  Circus.  He's 
also  served  famed  trial  lawyer  F.  Lee  Baily  and  guitarist 
Harry  Chapin. 

Ron  admits  to  a  couple  of  close  calls  in  his  burgeoning 
business.  There  was  the  time  when  somebody  on  his  staff 
mistakenly  prepared  for  a  dinner  party  at  a  Jewish  temple 
.  .  .  when  it  was  actually  to  be  held  at  the  Jewish  Com- 
munity Center  in  the  same  town.  (Luckily  it  was  right 
around  the  corner,  so  no  harm  was  done,  according  to  Sar- 
ver.) Also,  a  few  days  before  each  function,  he  calls  his 
clients  to  check  on  the  final  attendance  figure.  Once  he 
called  such  a  client  prior  to  a  scheduled  weekend  event 
and  inquired,  "Are  you  still  expecting  100?"  There  was  a 
pause,  and  then  the  woman  replied,  "Yes,  we  are."  She 
hesitated  again  and  asked,  "But  aren't  you  calling  a  little 
early?" 

"We  always  check  before  an  event,"  Sarver  informed 
her. 

"Twelve  months  before,"  she  asked  incredulously.  "It 
isn't  until  a  year  from  next  Saturday!" 

"1  don't  remember  exactly  what  I  said,  but  I  mumbled 
something,"  Sarver  says.  "And  I  hung  up  in  a  hurry." 
Anyway,  he  still  handled  the  job. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  13 


Ron  Sarver  has  been  handling  so  many  jobs  of  late  that 
he  is  branching  out.  Not  long  ago  he  and  Willie 
Newcomb,  Steve  Engel.  and  Dave  Pulzetti,  all  members  or 
the  class  of  '74.  drove  up  Mt.  Greylock,  the  highest  moun- 
tain in  the  Berkshires  and  in  the  state  ot  Massachusetts. 
"The  \  iew  was  fabulous, "  he  says,  "and  we  noticed  that 
the  Bascomb  Lodge,  which  is  right  on  top,  was  tor  sale. 
Somebody  suggested  that  we  buv  the  place,  so  we  did." 

Nov*   Sarver  is  not  only  president  of  his  catering  firm, 
he  is  also  president  of  the  Sunset  Management  Corporation 
which  controls  Bascomb  Lodge.  "Willie,  Steve,  and  Dave 
run  the  show  up  there,"  he  reports.  "The  hotel,  the 
restaurant,  the  gift  shop,  the  works.  They're  keeping  the 
place  tilled.  I'm  more  or  less  a  silent  partner." 

AT  THE  START  ot  Sarver's  career,  there  were  days 
when  the  sledding  was  rough.  "We  did  a  lot  of 
business  back  then,"  he  says,  "but  we  didn't  own  so  much 
as  a  table  service.  We  rented  everything.  The  overhead 
was  terrific." 

At  first  practically  every  dollar  he  made  was  plowed 
back  into  the  business.  "I  never  borrowed  a  cent,  though." 
he  recalls  proudlv.  Such  austerity  at  the  beginning  is  now 
paying  off  handsomely.  He  has  a  $250,000  investment  in 
his  new   Randolph  commissary  and  it's  practically  all  paid 
tor.  Gone  are  the  paper  cups,  plates,  and  plastic  cutlery 
which  he  had  to  use  when  he  first  started  out.  Now  he 
can  accommodate  2,800  people  complete  with  dishes  and 
gold  or  sikerplated  place  settings.  He  has  his  own  tables, 
chairs,  portable  ovens,  barbecues,  and  linens.  He  has  a 
permanent  staff  of  23  including  a  tull-time  chef  and  cooks, 
all  ot  whom  are  perfectly  happy  right  where  they  are. 
How  main  bosses  could  they  find  who  would  serve  the 
help  roast  beet  when  they're  catering  a  party  at  which  the 
guests  .ire  eating  chicken?  Gary  Berlin,  '71,  who  is  em- 
ployed in  the  atomic  energy  field,  so  much  enjoys  being  a 
part-time  maitre  </'  tor  Sarver  that  he  commutes  to 
Massachusetts  from  Connecticut  on  special  occasions. 

"My  motto  is  to  treat  the  customers  and  the  employees 
well  and  the  profit  will  take  care  ot  itself,"  says  Sarver. 

Some  of  the  profit,  which  has  taken  'care  of  itself,  can 
now  be  used  for  personal  enjoyment.  He  has  owned  two 
Mercedes  Ben/es  and  taken  trips  to  Europe,  Israel,  and 
Haw. in.  last  spring  he  spent  a  month  in  Puerto  Rico.  On 
the  oilier  hand,  he  hasn't  found  an  apartment  that  suits 
him.  so  he  still  lives  with  his  parents  in  Hull.  A  genial  but 
bus\   bachelor,  he  doesn't  plan  on  marriage  until  his 
business  is  more  self-sustaining. 

"I  usuall)    reserve  Fridays  tor  dating,"  he  reports.  "But 
win  should  I  bother,"  he  jokes.  "Everybody  else  is 
looking  around  tor  me.   Everyone  knows  that  'perfect  little 
lewish  girl.' 


Sarver  claims  that  at  catered  functions  it  is  not  at  all 
unusual  for  a  nice  Jewish  grandmother  to  spend  a  full  ten  J 
minutes  telling  him  all  about  her  granddaughter.  He  laughs 
"In  my  business,"  he  explains,  "the  phrase  'Have  1  got  a 
girl  for  you'  is  as  common  as  knishes." 

He  feels  that  his  aunt  in  Newton  probably  has  the  right 
slant  on  his  matrimonial  prospects.  "But  Ronnie,"  she 
worries,  "if  you  get  married,  who  will  cater  the  wedding?' 

UIPI 


14     O,  tobm  !'//'>      WPI  Journal 


ake  a 
powder 


4  MERICA,  the  so-called  'land  of 
A. milk  and  honey',  is  certainly  a  land 
infinite  opportunities,"  says  Ronald 
Chand,  '65,  president  of  Arsee 
;sign  &  Manufacturing,  Inc.  in  Wor- 
ker. "Where  else  in  the  world  could 
.tranger  from  a  foreign  land  walk  into 
Dank  and  an  hour  later  emerge  with 
ery  cent  necessary  to  acquire  his  own 
siness — especially  when  the  only 
llateral  he  had  to  offer  was  his 
ucation,  his  ambition,  and  a  dream?" 
Chand,  a  native  of  India,  who  proudly 
came  a  naturalized  citizen  last 
'cember,  first  put  foot  on  American 
HI  back  in  1963.  Ever  since  that  day 
s  had  a  love  affair  with  America  and 
riericans. 

"Why  shouldn't  I,"  he  asks.  "Since 
•  moment  I  arrived,  everyone  has 
le  out  of  his  way  to  be  helpful." 
For  example,  it  was  the  dean  of 
ston  University,  which  his  brother 
s  attending,  who  introduced  Chand  to 
orcester. 

"Not  only  did  he  drive  me  from 
ston  to  WPI,"  he  says,  "he  also 
ocked  on  doors  with  me  until  I  found 
uitable  apartment  near  the  campus." 
was  a  welcome  which  the  19-year- 
1,  fresh  from  India,  would  never  for- 

Once  at  WPI,  Chand  became  the 
dent  of  Prof.  Carl  Johnson  and  Prof. 
>nald  Zwiep,  whom  he  credits  with 
Iping  to  shape  his  career.  It  was 
ough  the  late  Prof.  Johnson  and  his 
ociation  with  Presmet  Corp.  in  Wor- 
ker that  he  became  interested  in 

jwder  metallurgy. 
"And  Prof.  Zwiep  encouraged  me  all 

«>ng  the  way,"  says  Chand,  who 

t reived  his  MS  in  mechanical  engineer- 

i !  in  1965. 


After  leaving  WPI  and  doing 
graduate  work  at  Michigan  State  and 
Brown  University,  Chand  became 
associated  with  Mott  Metallurgical  Corp. 
in  Farmington,  Conn.  Inside  of  four 
years  he  was  promoted  from  project 
engineer  to  assistant  plant  manager.  He 
also  worked  for  Tungsten  Carbide  Pro- 
ducts, the  firm  where  he  did  his 
master's  thesis  and  which  later 
established  a  fellowship  for  him  at  WPI. 

Two  years  ago  when  Tungsten 
Carbide  Products  came  up  for  sale, 
Chand  approached  a  commercial  bank 
which  so  thoroughly  believed  in  his 
potential  and  that  of  the  company  that 
it  lent  him  all  the  money  he  needed  to 
take  over  the  business.  The  faith  which 
the  bank  showed  in  Chand  and  his  firm 
has  already  borne  fruit. 

Arsee  Design  &  Mfg.,  Inc.  is  a  one- 
of-a-kind  company  in  Massachusetts.  It 
manufactures  hot  pressed  and  sintered 
carbides  and  specializes  in  powder  metal 
and  related  tooling. 

"Actually,"  Chand  relates,  "tungsten 
carbide  is  the  hardest  alloy  known  next 
to  diamonds,  and  we  are  the  only  firm 
in  the  state  which  makes  the  product.  It 
is  used  where  wear  application  requires 
the  hardest  material  possible.  There  is  a 
ready  market  for  it  in  the  Northeast, 
which  we  serve." 

The  company  which  Chand 
purchased  had  originally  made  rough 
carbide.  Arsee  not  only  makes  carbide, 
it  finishes  it.  It  has  become  a 
manufacturer  and  fabricator  of  carbide. 

Powdered  metals  are  pressed  together 
and  presintered  at  a  low  temperature, 
(1700  degrees  F)  so  that  the  wax  that 
holds  the  slugs  is  burned  away.  The 
substance  then  becomes  like  chalk  and 
can  be  machined  to  proper  shape  and 
size.  It  is  then  vacuum  sintered  at 
around  2600  degrees  F  to  obtain  full 
density  and  strength. 


Chand  emphasizes  that  his  company 
can  customize  and  shape  the  product  to 
suit  the  buyer.  Preforms  can  be  made 
close  to  the  finished  product.  The  shop 
is  fully  equipped  (including  a  Swiss 
electric  discharge  machine)  to  finish 
carbide  preforms. 

"We  serve  a  number  of  industries," 
he  reports,  "even  though  our  specialty 
is  powder  metal  dies." 

Among  those  who  are  customers  of 
Arsee  are  manufacturers  in  the  spring, 
machine  building,  stamping,  machining, 
wire,  wood,  screw,  and  coated  wire 
industries.  "When  you  come  right  down 
to  it,  we  make  carbide  for  almost  every 
industry  in  Worcester,"  Chand  relates. 

Currently  Arsee  employs  five  people 
in  the  manufacture  of  carbide  and 
powder  metal  tools,  but  business  is  good 
and  there  are  tentative  plans  for 
expansion.  The  company  could  easily  be 
geared  to  make  large  quantity  parts,  too. 

"When  the  time  is  right,  we'll 
decide,"  Chand  says.  Whenever  he 
makes  up  his  mind,  it  will  undoubtedly 
be  the  right  decision.  It's  a  family  trait. 

The  great  grandson  of  a  shepherd, 
and  son  of  a  high  school  teacher  and  a 
nurse,  Ronald  Chand  (along  with  two 
brothers  and  two  sisters),  has  fared  well 
because  of  what  his  parents  decided 
years  ago  —  to  educate  their  children 
in  America. 

Chand  says,  "It's  worked  out 
wonderfully  for  us  in  America.  I  met 
my  wife,  Pamela  Sawin,  here,  and  we 
were  married  in  1968.  All  of  the 
Chands  have  acquired  graduate  degrees, 
including  two  PhD's.  The  main  thing  is 
that  no  other  country  on  earth  offers 
the  opportunities  that  this  one  does,  in 
spite  of  what  you  read  in  certain  news- 
papers! " 

He  cites  the  case  of  the  early  New 
England  settlers  who  had  to  clear  away 
trees  and  dig  rocks  out  of  the  ground 
before  they  could  profitably  live  off  of 
the  land. 

"They  had  to  work  hard,"  says 
Chand,  "but  opportunity  was  waiting 
for  them  right  underneath  their  feet.  All 
they  had  to  do  was  go  after  it.  It  can 
still  be  done  today." 

Ronald  Chand  is  successful,  not 
because  he  asked  what  his  adopted 
country  could  do  for  him,  but  because 
he  asked  what  he  could  do  for  himself 
and  his  country  —  then  went  ahead 
and  did  it.  America  did  well  to  answer 
in  kind. 

UIPI 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975 1  15 


retail    \^aiiaii    u>  t    tiic   inyii   ocao 


Math, 

microcircuits, 
and  mainsails 


Back  in  1956  the  term  "Women's 
Lib''  was  unheard  of.  WPI  had  never 
granted  a  degree  to  a  woman  (much 
less  to  a  husband-and-wife  team!). 
And  the  college  had  yet  to  award  a 
graduate  degree  in  physics.  But  on  June 
7.  1957  Audrey  and  Alan  Carlan  changed 
all  that.  ("I  didn't  invent  Women's  Lib 
that  day.''  Audre\  says,  "although  I  guess 
you  could  say  I  gave  it  a  quiet  boost.  ") 

On  that  day.  tor  the  first  time  WPI 
conferred  a  degree  on  a  coed  —  and 
her  husband.  Both  Carlans  were 
awarded  master  of  science  degrees  in 
physics,  the  first  so  given  by  the  college. 

"Six  weeks  after  commencement  our 
first  child.  Stephen,  was  born,"  Audrey 
recalls.  "He  was  the  first  baby  with  a 
\\ PI  alumna  as  his  mother." 

The  Carlans  came  to  WPI  with  an 
impressive  track  record.  Natives  of 
Brooklyn,  they  met  in  an  analytical 
geometry  class  at  Brooklyn  College 
where  tney  graduated  in  1951  with  a 
pair  of  BA's  in  mathematics.  Later  Alan 
served  with  the  Marines,  and  when  he 
was  commissioned  a  second  lieutenant 
lie  and  Audrey  were  married.  After  his 
discharge  in  19^  they  studied  al 
George  Washington  University. 

In   1954  the  C  arlans  were  assigned  to 
the  research  center  at  American  Optical 
(  o.  in  South  bridge,  Mass..  and  also 
enrolled  on  a  part-time  basis  at  WPI  to 
work  on  advanced  degrees.  At  A()  Alan 
was  .i  physicist  in  research  and  Audrey  a 
mathematical  physicist  in  the  optical 
computing  system.  Boih  played  an 
important  pan  in  developing  the  highly 
publicized  wide-screen  Podd-AO 

process  used  to  lilm  and  project  the 
movies     Oklahoma''  and    "Around  the 
World  in  so  I  >ays." 


After  leaving  AO  and  WPI,  the 
family  settled  in  Pennsylvania  where 
Alan  founded  a  successful  business  in 
Scottsdale.  As  president  of  Power 
Components,  Inc.,  he  directed  the 
production  of  various  types  of  rectifiers, 
regulators,  switching  devices,  and  other 
solid-state  electronic  components.  Alan's 
idea  for  developing  the  components  was 
hatched  while  he  was  doing  graduate 
work  in  solid  state  physics  at  WPI. 
Later  he  implemented  his  idea  while 
studying  at  Mellon  Institute  on  a  fellow- 
ship. The  company's  products  are  used 
in  radios,  TV  sets,  automotive  parts, 
missiles,  and  other  industrial  and  mili- 
tary equipment. 

Since  1966  the  Carlans  have  been 
living  in  California  where  they've  dis- 
covered all-year  sunshine  and  all-year 
sports.  "Sailboating  is  our  passion," 
Audrey  reports.  "We  have  a  29-foot 
sloop  ('Cal  29)  and  enjoy  cruising  and 
racing." 

All  five  Carlans  race  —  and  quite 
successfully.  They  just  purchased  a  new 
home,  with  double  the  area  of  the  pre- 


vious one,  "to  hold  all  the  trophies," 
they  joke.  Last  summer  they  participatec 
in  a  cruise  race  from  Los  Angeles  to 
Santa  Barbara  and  return. 

"Sailing  a  boat  can  be  quite  scientif- 
ic," Audrey  explains.  "There  are  all 
sorts  of  forces  and  pressures  acting  on 
the  boat  and  the  sails,  and  trimming 
sails  to  maximize  speed  and  minimize 
leeway  must  be  carefully  done." 

Along  with  the  sailboat  goes  knowin 
the  rules  of  the  road.  Alan  joined  the 
U.S.  Power  Squadrons  and  then 
proceeded  to  take  courses  in 
seamanship,  advanced  piloting,  junior 
navigation,  navigation,  weather,  sail,  an« 
engine  maintenance.  According  to 
Audrey,  the  Power  Squadron  is  not  as 
liberated  as  WPI  and  doesn't  admit 
women  as  members,  but  they  do  allow 
women  to  take  courses.  So  she  signed 
up  and  became  the  only  woman  navi- 
gator in  the  Redondo  Beach  Power 
Squadron  at  the  time.  Then  she  and 
Alan  taught  navigation,  and  Alan  also 
taught  sail. 


The  Carlans:  (from  right)  Stephen,  Audrey,  Susan,  Alan,  and  David 


16  I  October  1975     WPI  Journal 


To  support  their  hobby,  Alan  works 
Rockwell  International  as  manager  of 
vanced  process  development  for  the 
icroelectronics  Division.  He  is  in 
arge  of  developing  new  products  and 
icesses  to  be  used  in  computers, 
culators,  and  processors. 
Audrey  is  an  associate  professor  of 
ithematics  and  computer  science  at 
s  Angeles  Southwest  College.  She  is 

0  chairman  of  the  math  department 
i  computer  science  coordinator. 
.SW  is  one  of  nine  community 
leges  in  the  LA  Community  College 
strict.  She  has  been  there  for  seven 
irs,  one  year  less  than  the  college 
■If. 

The  Carlan  children  are  very  active. 
|th  Stephen  and  David  earned  Eagle 

k  in  Boy  Scouts.  Stephen  also  earned 
bronze  palm.  Stephen  ranked  sixth 

his  graduating  class  of  over  700  at 
llling  Hills  H.S.  in  Palos  Verdes,  Cal. 
1 1  plans  to  enter  Cal  Tech.  David  has 
i  5ped  one  year  of  school  and  expects 
|  attend  Harbor  College  while  com- 

ting  high  school  this  year.  He  is 
iking  forward  to  attending  U.C.  in 

)  Diego  as  a  premed  student.  Susan, 
has  been  in  the  Girl  Scouts.  She  and 
brothers  have  given  numerous  piano 
|itals,  and  Susan  plays  the  guitar  as 

1  I.  She  is  an  animal  lover  and  has  a 

bunny  called  Honey.  She  follows  in 
family  tradition,  by  qualifying  for 
'bra  in  8th  grade. 

To  the  women  now  at  WPI,  Audrey 
>:   "Let  me  remind  you  that  when  I 
nded  classes,  I  had  to  carry  a 
iies'  sign  around  with  me,  because 
restrooms  were  all  for  men.  Because 
)ur  daytime  jobs  at  AO,  Alan  and  I 
nded  at  night.  By  the  final  semester 
)ur  third  year  I  was  pregnant  and 
jging,  but,  everything  went  O.K. 
'One  further  incident  that  seems 
jsing  —  now!   We  had  to  get  our 
ipleted  theses  in  by  a  certain  dead- 
.  We  started  out  from  Southbridge, 
suddenly  I  discovered  that  the  corn- 
ed copies  of  my  important  computa- 
is  were  missing.  Luckily,  I  had  a 
)licate  copy  to  submit  instead.  Years 
r,  driving  along,  I  had  to  make  a 
y  sharp  stop.  The  original  copies 
le  flying  out  of  the  bottom  of  the 
it  seat  carpet  of  the  car! 
'1  feel  that  I  am  a  'quiet  women's 
■  )er'.  I  hope  1  have  helped  show  that 
men  can  compete,  at  least  mentally, 
h  men." 


Jake's 
crazy 
idea 


This  year  Oliver  B.  Jacobs,    10,  has 
had  good  reason  to  celebrate.  He  has 
a  satisfying  career  to  look  back  on,  he 
attended  his  65th  reunion  at  WPI  in 
June,  and  in  August  he  took  a  bride! 

"Jake,"  as  he  is  known  to  his  friends, 
likes  to  talk  about  the  "good  old  days," 
but  at  86  he  still  knows  how  to  enjoy 
the  present  and  look  to  the  future.  The 
spirit  that  inspired  his  inventive  mind 
still  runs  strong. 

"Actually,"  he  admits,  "it  was  the 
Depression  that  spurred  me  on  in  the 
inventing  field.  I  was  with  Bell  Labs  and 
some  engineers  were  being  laid  off.  1 
was  afraid  my  turn  would  be  next.  I 
had  to  think  of  something  worthwhile." 

So,  in  order  not  to  lose  his  job, 
Oliver  Jacobs  went  home,  sat  down  at 
his  desk,  and  invented  something  —  an 
invention  which  was  to  play  a  big  part 
in  making  it  possible  to  use  underwater 
cable  to  transmit  telephone  messages 
across  the  oceans. 

"At  first  everyone  thought  that  the 
invention  was  just  another  of  lake's 
crazy  ideas,"  he  laughs.  Crazy  or  not, 
his  idea  worked.  The  plan  called  for  the 
use  of  amplifiers  uniformly  spaced  along 
the  cable  on  the  sea  bottom.  These 
would  use  vacuum  tubes  energized  by 
direct  current  passing  through  all  of  the 
tubes  in  a  continuous  path  from  shore 
to  shore.  Very  long  life  operation  would 
be  obtained  by  using  very  low  voltages 
and  currents  in  the  tubes.  The  resulting 
restriction  of  the  signal  output  power 
capacity  would  be  no  handicap:   the 
inputs  could  be  much  lower  than  on 
land  lines  because  the  bottom  of  the 
ocean  is  the  quietest  place  on  earth. 

This  particular  invention,  one  of  his 
20  patents,  helped  establish  the  basis 
upon  which  modern  transoceanic  cables 
operate  today.  Another  Jacobs' 
invention  keeps  the  current  supplied  to 
the  cable  constant  despite  differences  in 
earth  potential  due  to  magnetic  storm 
disturbances. 


His  career  at  AT&T  started  when  he 
took  a  summer  job  with  the  company 
just  prior  to  his  senior  year  in  college. 
In  1925  he  was  transferred  to  Bell  Labs 
where  he  retired  in  1954  at  the  age  of 
65.  "Then  another  company  leased  my 
services  to  the  Bell  Labs  until  my 
'second'  retirement  in  1963,"  he  recalls 
with  obvious  relish. 

"I  worked  on  telephone  problems  all 
those  years,"  he  says,  "taking  time  out 
only  for  World  War  I."  He  is  modest 
about  his  war  services,  saying  that 
during  his  tour  of  duty  in  France  he 
"didn't  do  much."  He  was,  however,  a 
member  of  the  staff  of  the  chief  signal 
officer  and  was  in  charge  of  providing 
telephone  and  telegraph  equipment  in 
the  Signal  Corps  offices  of  the  American 
Expeditionary  Forces. 

Once  away  from  war  and  his  duties 
at  AT&T,  he  and  his  late  wife,  DeEtte, 
became  involved  in  community  activities 
in  Morristown,  N.  J.  They  were  busy 
with  gardening  circles,  the  Red  Cross, 
Girl  Scouts,  and  conservation  organiza- 
tions. Jacobs  served  as  former  chairman 
of  the  Morristown  Board  of  Adjustment. 
From  the  age  of  11,  when  he  published 
his  own  newspaper,  until  failing  eyesight 
forced  him  to  give  it  up,  he  enjoyed 
do-it-yourself  printing.  He  continues  to 
be  a  man  of  many  interests. 

This  year  he  brought  with  him  a 
charming  lady.  Miss  Marian  Bathgate, 
82,  to  help  celebrate  his  65th  class  re- 
union at  WPI.  On  August  23rd  they 
were  married.  "We're  having  a  wonder- 
ful time,"  he  declares.  "And  we  hope  to 
have  many  more  good  years  together." 

Oliver  Jacobs  is  always  looking 
ahead. 

WPI 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  17 


Now  you  see  him 


Milton  Berle  calls  him  "Fantastic  —  the 
greatest  magician  1  have  seen."  Alice  Cooper  has 
told  him,  "If  ever  I  can  help  you,  let  me  know."  And 
fellow  magicians  at  the  Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood  have 
nominated  him  two  years  in  a  row  "visiting  magician  of 
the  year  award,"  an  Oscar-caliber  award  for  magicians. 

Such  unsolicited  endorsement  from  star  performers  is 
music  to  the  ears  of  Worcester's  Steve  Dacri,  '74,  who 
was  bitten  by  the  magic  bug  at  age  six  and  has  been  on 
stage  professionally  since  he  was  twelve. 

"Berle  calls  me  a  magician,"  he  says  (Dacri  has 
appeared  on  TV  with  him),  "but  I  consider  myself  an 
entertainer  first  and  foremost." 

When  it  comes  right  down  to  brass  tacks,  just  what 
Steve  Dacri  actually  is,  besides  a  prodigious  success,  is 
hard  to  pin  down.  Still  living  in  the  Worcester  area,  he 
crisscrosses  the  country  hundreds  of  times  a  year  to 
entertain  at  nightclubs,  resorts,  trade  shows,  conventions, 
and  college  campuses.  A  veteran  of  over  350  TV  shows, 
he  now  has  his  own  weekly  television  show,  "The  Steve 
Dacri  Magical  Mystery  Tour,"  which  is  aired  in  New 
England.  He  owns  the  Steve  Dacri  Magic  and  Fun  Shop 
directly  across  from  the  Worcester  Public  Library.  He  is 
opening  a  magic  school,  is  about  to  publish  a  book,  and 
operates  a  magician's  booking  service  and  a  nationwide 
mail-order  business. 

Dacri  smiles  as  he  describes  the  birth  of  his  mail-order 
business.  "It  all  came  about  as  a  direct  result  of  the  WPI 
Plan,"  he  recalls.  "Ken  Nourse,  who  was  Director  of 
Admissions  when  I  was  applying  at  Tech,  told  me  that 
the  school  was  instituting  the  plan.  That  sounded  like 
something  I  could  get  my  teeth  into." 

Right  away  he  began  to  work  on  his  project,  a  book 
about  the  mail-order  business,  one  that  he  has  since 
updated  and  is  planning  to  publish.  "Instead  of  going 
around  interviewing  mail-order  executives,  1  decided  to 
start  my  own  business  and  write  up  the  results,"  he  says. 

Being  a  magician,  I  naturally  handled  magicians'  tricks 
.iihI  supplies  —  and  still  do." 

I). kn  went  one  step  further  than  most   businessmen. 
He  invented  a  number  of  tricks  and  novelties  himself  and 
retailed  them  through  mail  order.  His  most  successful  was 
what  he  <.alls  a  "shrunken  penny." 

While  Still  at  WPI.  I  sold  50,000  of  those  pennies 
the  very  first   year,"  he  reports,  "And  even  today  they're 
selling  ai  the  rate  ol  about  5,0<  K  I  .i  yeai 

Orders  |<,i   numerous  other   products  poured   in.   "My 

fraternity  roommate  practically  had  to  move  out,"  he 


relates.  "Our  room,  the  main  base  for  my  operations 
while  I  was  at  Tech,  was  filled  to  overflowing  with 
inventory,  orders,  and  boxes.  It  was  quite  a  sight!" 

So  successful  was  this  venture  that  Dacri  left  WPI  in 
1972  to  devote  himself  exclusively  to  entertainment  and 
business.  "At  the  time  I  was  giving  dozens  of 
performances  throughout  the  country  every  month  and 
running  the  business,  too.  There  weren't  enough  hours  in 
the  day." 

He  did,  however,  manage  to  squeeze  in  enough  time 
to  earn  an  associate's  degree  from  Quinsigamond 
Community  College  in  Worcester.  "My  WPI  project 
helped  me  out  a  lot  at  Quinsig,"  he  says.  "They  gave  me 
a  full  semester's  credit  for  the  research  I  had  done  on  my 
book." 

His  formal  education  over,  Dacri  declares  that  he  hasn'i 
done  a  day  of  work  since.  All  he  does,  he  confides,  is  hav 
"fun."  Most  people  would  consider  Dacri's  'fun'  absolutel 
exhausting  — ;  such  as  his  performing  at  the  national  trade 
shows,  just  one  of  the  many  facets  of  his  thriving  career. 

"I  do  ten-minute  shows  every  ten  minutes  all  day  at  tH 
trades,"  he  reports.  "It's  my  job  to  catch  the  attention  of 
prospective  buyers  and  sell  them  on  what  ever  product  I 
happen  to  be  representing."  He  feels  that  by  working  the 
trades  he  not  only  sells  his  sponsor's  products,  he  also 
promotes  magic  and,  of  course,  his  own  talents.  Spin-off 
contracts  have  been  rewarding. 

In  order  to  become  familiar  with  the  manufacturer's 
products  initially,  he  meets  with  company  executives  who 
bone  him  up  on  the  selling  points  of  the  products.  Then 
he  creates  a  special  magic  act  to  spotlight  those  selling 
points,  always  with  an  eye  toward  making  a  sale. 

Apparently  he  has  been  doing  quite  a  job.  Already  he 
has  worked  for  Speidel  watchbands;  the  National  Elec- 
tronics Show  in  Boston;   the  Premium  Show  at  the 
Coliseum  in  New  York  City;   the  Tobacco  Show;  and  th 
recent  National  Entertainment  Conference  in  Washington, 
D.C.,  at  which  President  Ford  and  comedian  Redd  Foxx 
were  guests. 

"One  of  the  highlights  of  my  year  is  doing  the  Toy  Fa 
in  New  York  City,"  he  confesses.  "It's  held  in  February, 
but  even  then  the  toy  buyers  are  looking  ahead  to  the 
next  December.  Christmas  decorations  get  everyone  in  a 
festive  mood.  It  doesn't  make  any  difference  that  the  big 
day  is  months  away." 


18     October  1975      WPI  Journal 


Another  highlight  for  Dacri  is  when  he's  booked  at  the 
jntainbleau  in  Miami  for  an  organization  such  as  the 
oriel  Meeting  Planners.  "It's  a  fantastic  place  to  sell  at," 
reports.  Last  year  when  he  was  at  the  Fountainbleau  he 

one  of  his  better  selling  jobs.  (Or  was  it  magic?) 
"There  was  an  attractive  secretary  a  few  booths  away 
m  me  and  1  told  myself  that  she  was  the  one,"  he 
eals.  After  each  of  his  ten-minute  shows  he  spent  ten 
lutes  with  the  secretary.  When  she  left  for  Detroit,  he 

he'd  been  seeing  her,  a  statement  which  she  took  with 
Tain  of  salt.  Today  Sheryl  Ollie  is  now  Mrs.  Steve 
cri  of  Westboro. 
'She's  wonderful,"  he  enthuses,  "and  is  fitting  right  into 

Worcester  scene.  She  even  works  with  two  assistants 
he  mail  order  department."  He  laughs.  "Last,  but  not 
it,  she  acts  as  a  guinea  pig  for  my  newest  tricks.  I  prac- 

three  hours  a  day  and  naturally  I  want  to  get  her  reac- 
1  when  I'm  perfecting  a  new  routine." 
One  routine  that  Mrs.  Dacri  OK'd  was  his  famous  cup 
i  ball  trick,  redesigned  with  a  special  twist  just  for  her. 
;  night  he  presented  her  with  an  engagement  ring,  he 
>t  putting  balls  under  an  overturned  cup  and  asking  her 
v  many  there  were.  She  guessed  there  were  two,  but 
en  she  lifted  the  cup  the  balls  were  gone.  Only  a  box 
h  a  ring  remained.  She  didn't  even  protest  when  he 
'ed  her  into  three  pieces  just  48  hours  prior  to  their 
dding  last  February.  After  all,  he  did  manage  to  get  her 
i  k  together  again  for  the  ceremony. 


Once  he  has  perfected  his  routines,  be  it  cutting  up 
ladies  in  magic  boxes  or  his  real  specialty,  close-up  sleight- 
of-hand  tricks,  Steve  Dacri  is  all  set  to  go  on  stage.  "Ex- 
cept for  the  dialogue,"  he  admits.  "I've  paid  writers  to 
write  dialogue  for  me,  but  the  minute  I  step  before  an 
audience  my  mind  goes  completely  blank.  Every  audience 
is  different,"  he  declares.  "A  set  script  just  doesn't  work. 
You've  got  to  feel  out  what  people's  reactions  will  be  and 
suit  your  patter  to  them  on  the  spot." 

Dacri  is  a  master  of  spontaneous  patter  and  an  ac- 
complished comedian.  He  definitely  is  not  in  need  of  a 
script.  He  has  an  inexhaustible  supply  of  one-liners  which 
evidently  come  from  thin  air  as  do  the  bewildering  array 
of  magic  cards,  scarves,  and  ropes  which  appear  from 
nowhere  and  do  improbable  things. 

To  a  goggle-eyed  youngster  who  had  the  gall  to  suggest 
on  stage  that  Dacri  might  have  something  up  his  sleeve, 
the  magician  quipped,  "How  old  are  you,  son?" 

"Eight,"  came  the  reply. 

"Do  you  want  to  be  nine?" 

Goggle-eyes  looked  very  solemn,  as  if  Dacri,  with  a 
swish  of  his  magic  want,  were  about  to  make  him  disap- 
pear. The  audience  loved  it. 

That  is  another  of  the  secrets  of  Dacri 's  success  — 
audience  participation.  The  kids  fall  all  over  themselves 
when  he  asks  for  assistants,  with  adults  running  a  close 
second.  None  of  them  can  wait  to  have  their  pockets 
picked,  in  fact  none  of  them  believe  it's  even  happened 
until  they  suddenly  discover  that  they  have  been  com- 
pletely stripped  of  wallets  and  jewelry.  Billed  as  "the 
fastest  hands  in  the  world,"  Dacri  lives  up  to  that 
reputation  as  he  skillfully  separates  the  valuables  from  his 
unsuspecting  "assistants."  Although  Fagin,  the  prototype 
pickpocket,  would  be  proud  of  such  cunning,  police  depar- 
tments all  over  the  country  are  undoubtedly  relieved  that 
he  has  chosen  a  more  legitimate  profession. 

These  days  Dacri  is  heavily  into  the  entertainment 
aspect  of  his  career,  leaving  the  mail-order  department 
primarily  in  the  hands  of  his  bride  and  the  magic  shop  in 
the  care  of  two  employees.  He  also  employs  several  agents, 
a  lawyer,  and  accountant,  and  a  business  manager. 

"Performing  is  what  I  love  best,"  he  says.  "I  built  up 
the  rest  of  the  business  and  now  feel  free  to  give  most  of 
the  responsibility  to  somebody  else." 

Recently  he  appeared  on  the  "New  England  Journal"  on 
Channel  3  in  Hartford;  Worcester's  Channel  27  state  lot- 
tery drawing;  and  "News  Magazine"  in  Denver.  Right 
now  he's  negotiating  for  a  possible  stint  in  Las  Vegas  and  a 
guest  spot  on  a  national  TV  show.  He's  scheduled  to  do 
ten  "Take  One"  shows  with  Paul  Benzaquin  in  Channel  7 
in  Boston  and  his  magic  school  is  slated  to  open  soon  at 
the  Sheraton-Lincoln  in  Worcester.  His  career  just  keeps 
booming  along. 

Steps  to  success?  Dacri  advises:    (1)  set  limited  goals  for 
yourself  and  meet  them ;    (2)  keep  those  goals  within 
reason  so  that  you  don't  get  discouraged  and  fail;    (3) 


don't  generalize  by  saying,  "I  want  to  be  rich  and 

lly  considering 
do  to  get  there,  and  (4)  most  of  all,  pick  a  profession  that 


famous,"  without  really  considering  what  it  is  you  have  to 

i  (4) 
you  have  a  passion  for. 


I1IPI 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  19 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  September  15,  when  it 
was  compiled  for  publication.  Information  re- 
ceived after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1906 

Franklin  Green  was  honored  on  the 
occasion  of  his  90th  birthday  when  he  was 
guest  of  honor  at  a  dinner  given  him  by 
members  and  friends  of  the  Salt  Creek 
Baptist  Church.  Well  known  in  the  Dallas 
area,  he  went  there  to  teach  high  school 
mathematics  in  1943.  Later  he  was  elected 
Polk  County  superintendent  of  schools  and 
served  for  eight  years.  Until  last  fall,  he 
taught  calculus  at  Portland  Community 
College  and  still  tutors  students.  He  is 
presently  planning  a  trip  to  Alaska. 


1908 


Sumner  A.  Davis  writes  that  his  son, 
Sumner  D.  Davis  II  (M.D.),  passed  away  on 
June  19,  1975. 


1914 

Ray  Crouch  has  a  new  address:  Park  Forest 
Apts.,  Apt.  234,  3605  Villaverde  Ave.,  Dallas, 
Texas,  75234. 


1915 


The  Non-Ferrous  Division  of  the  Wire 
Association  has  selected  Maurice  G.  Steele 
to  write  a  chapter  for  a  forthcoming  non 
ferrous  handbook  to  be  published  by  the 
association.  Mr.  Steele's  chapter  will  be 
devoted  to  the  carbon-block  brazing  of 
copper  wire,  a  superior  method  of  joining 
copper  wire  that  he  perfected  while  he  was 
attached  to  the  Research  Center  of  Rome 
(NY  I  Cable  Corp. 

1932 

Constantino  J.  G.  Orfanos  writes  that  in 
recent  years  he  has  been  active  with  Electric 
Utility  Equipment  projects  in  Brazil,  Columbia, 

Greece,  and  Taipei,  Taiwan.  He 
has  been  concerned  primarily  with  thermal 
rind  nuclear  electric  power  plants   Last 
sumrr  ■  i  his  children  while  on  a  trip 

lo  (he  West  Co ■< 


1933 

Currently  Jeremiah  H.  Vail  is  manager  of 
equal  employment  opportunity  at  U.S.  Steel 
Corporation  in  Pittsburgh. 

1934 

Charles  S.  Frary,  Jr.,  retired  in  July 
following  41  years  at  American  Biltrite, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  (formerly  Boston  Woven 
Hose  &  Rubber  Co.).  He  has  been  living  at 
camp  while  completing  a  new  home  in 
Northwood,  N.H. 


1935 

Dr.  Paul  R.  Shepler  is  manager  of  piston 
ring  and  seal  development  at  Koppers  Co., 
Inc.,  in  Baltimore,  Maryland. 

1937 

Morton  S.  Fine  was  awarded  the 
distinguished  service  certificate  by  the 
National  Council  of  Engineering  Examiners 
(NCEE)  at  their  annual  meeting  held  in 
Boston  in  August.  A  former  long-term 
member  of  the  Connecticut  Board  of 
Registration  for  Professional  Engineers  and 
Land  Surveyors,  he  was  recognized  for  his 
outstanding  contributions  in  the  area  of 
safeguarding  the  public  welfare  through 
promotion  of  engineering  registration.  He 
served  twelve  years  as  a  member  of  the  state 
regulatory  board,  including  three  terms  each 
as  chairman  and  vice  chairman. 

Fine  has  served  NCEE  in  committee 
assignments  primarily  relating  to  development 
of  the  examinations  and  establishment  of 
uniform  standards  for  registration  by  the 
states.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  and  land  surveyor  in  the  Northeast 
and  a  registered  landscape  architect  in 
Connecticut  and  Massachusetts.  He  is  also  a 
planner  in  New  Jersey.  Since  1950  he  has 
offered  his  services  through  his  own  firm, 
Morton  S.  Fine  and  Associates,  Bloomfield, 
Conn. 

For  many  years  he  has  been  active  in  the 
National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers 
and  has  served  as  president  of  the 
Connecticut  Society.  He  also  served  as 
national  chairman  of  the  Professional 
Engineers  in  Private  Practice.  The  immediate 
past  president  of  NCEE,  he  will  remain  on  the 
NCEE  board  until  next  August. 

1938 

WPI  Prof.  Donald  W.  Howe  Jr.,  drove  one 
of  six  pollution-free  vehicles  that  conquered 
the  6,288  foot  peak  in  the  Mt.  Washington 
Alternative  Vehicle  Regatta  held  in  June.  His 
blue  electric  battery-operated  car  made  it  to 
the  top  in  one  hour  and  eleven  minutes  .  .  . 
Capt.  Milton  P.  Hubley,  who  is  with  Eastern 
Air  Lines,  expects  to  retire  next  year  .  .  . 
Francis  L.  Witkege  writes  that  he  is 
"unretired."  Currently  he  is  chief  of  the  Earth 
Sciences  Branch  at  the  Smithsonian  Science 
Information  Exchange,  Inc.,  in  Washington, 
DC. 


I5JW 

Rally  Bates  serves  as  engineering  manager 
at  Teledyne  Relays  in  Hawthorne,  California. 

1941 

Back  to  teaching  math  at  Burlington  (Vt.) 
High  School  is  Kenneth  R.  Dresser,  who 
recently  received  his  MS  from  the  University 
of  Vermont.  .  .  .   Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  H. 
Hinman  celebrated  their  25th  wedding 
anniversary  on  June  8th  at  a  special  dinner  a 
the  Harbor  Beach  Club  in  Mattapoisett,  Mass 
Their  son,  John,  graduated  from  high  school 
that  afternoon.  Mr.  Hinman  is  chief  chemist 
with  Revere  Copper  and  Brass,  Inc.,  New 
Bedford,  Mass. 

1943 

Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  has  appointed 
Nelson  M.  Calkins,  Jr.,  as  manager  of 
machines  and  equipment  for  the  International 
Unit  of  engineering  and  construction  services 
He  will  be  concerned  with  the 
implementation  of  a  recently  undertaken 
Polish  program.  In  1956  he  started  at  Norton 
as  a  plant  layout  engineer.  In  1963  he  was 
promoted  to  senior  engineer  and  in  1970  to 
area  engineer  in  the  Grinding  Wheel  Division. 
He  became  chief  engineer  of  project  and  kiln 
engineering  two  years  ago.  .  .  .  Donald  M. 
Roun  owns  Music  Alley  in  Lexington,  Mass. 

1944 

Prof.  Joseph  S.  Marcus,  associate  dean  of 
the  school  of  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  was  cited  as  an  honoree  by 
the  UMass  engineering  alumni  group  at  its 
annual  awards  ceremonies  held  on  May  10th. 
He  received  his  MSCE  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  in  1954. 

1946 

The  Charles  H.  Jennings  Memorial  Award, 
which  is  conferred  on  a  student  or  faculty 
representative  of  a  college  for  outstanding 
welding  literature  published  in  the  We/ding 
Journal,  has  been  won  by  Dr.  Edward  R. 
Funk.  Dr.  Funk  shared  the  prize  with  three 
coauthors  for  the  article,  "Suppression  of 
Spiking  on  Partial  Penetration  EB  Welding 
with  Feedback  Control."  He  is  an  assistant 
professor  in  the  metallurgy  department  at 
MIT;  assistant  manager  of  the  technical 
service  department  at  Goodyear  Aerospace 
Corp.;  cofounder  and  president  of  Johnston 
Er  Funk  Titanium  Corporation  in  Wooster, 
Ohio;  cofounder  and  president  of  Astro 
Metallurgical  Corporation  in  Wooster;  and 
founder  and  president  of  the  Funk 
Metallurgical  Corporation.  Currently  he  is  an 
associate  professor  in  the  department  of 
welding  engineering  at  Ohio  State  University. 
He  was  a  WPI  term  trustee  from  1969  to 
1974. 


1947 

Edward  C.  Perry  works  for  Radio  Shack, 
Palm  Springs,  California. . 


20     OetOtm  1976     WPI  Journal 


western  Electric 
Reports: 

Moving  phone  calls 
bit  by  bit. 


To  meet  the  growing  demand  for  communica- 
tions facilities,  the  people  at  Western  Electric 
and  Bell  Labs  have  developed  digital 
techniques,  which  dramatically  increase  the  number 
Df  phone  calls  that  can  be  carried  over  existing  wires. 

In  digital  communications,  a  voice  signal  is 
sampled  8,000  times  a  second.  Each  sample 
'epresents  the  amplitude  of  the  voice's  wave  pattern 
Dn  a  scale  from  1  to  256. This  measurement  is  coded 
n  binary  form  as  a  series  of  pulses  or  "bits." 
\nd  the  code  is  transmitted  to  the  receiving  end 
vhere  it's  decoded  to  faithfully  recreate  the  voice. 
3ecausethis  is  a  sampling  technique,  the  pulses 
1  epresenting  a  number  of  voice  signals  can  be 
'  nterleaved.  For  example,  the  T1  System,  work- 
horse of  the  Bell  System's  evolving  digital 
;  letwork,  transmits  24  simultaneous  conversations 
t  )n  two  pairs  of  wire. 

Development  of  digital  techniques  has 
f  lemanded  close  coordination  between  designer 
j  nd  manufacturer.  Interleaving  24  conversations 

>n  wire  pairs  originally  intended  to  carry  a 
6  ingle  voice  signal  meant  designing  theT1 
i  iystem  to  fitthe  characteristics  of  cable  already 

i  place.  It  meant  manufacturing  components 
[  lat  operate  with  clockwork  precision,  since 
I  ie  system  must  transmit  a  "bit"  precisely  every 

48  nanoseconds.  (The  time  it  takes  light  to" 

avel  about  650  feet.)  And  because  the  stream 
[  f  pulses  must  be  regenerated  at  about  one  mile 
;  itervals  — often  in  manholes  under  busy  city 
i  treets— the  components  must  be  extremely  stable. 

Engineers  at  Western  Electric's  plant  in 
flassachusetts  are  working  with  Bell  Labs  on  a 
!  'ide  range  of  design  and  manufacturing  innova- 
fons.  For  example,  previous  timing  circuits  used  in 
j  le  regenerator  for  the  T1  System  were  tuned 
■Manually.  Western  Electric  engineers  have 

eveloped  a  computerized  process  that 
I  jnes  the  circuits  faster  and  more  accurately. 

leanwhile,  Bell  Labs  has  developed  even 
.  [igher  capacity  digital  systems. The  latest 
tan  interleave  4,032  simultaneous  conver- 
: !  ations  on  a  pair  of  coaxial  conductors. 

Benefit:  Digital  communications 
[jchniques  are  one  more  way  the 
ell  System  is  working  to  meet 
bur  communications  needs 
pliably  and  economically. 


24  VdlCE  SIGNALS 


SIGNAL  1 


SEQUENTIAL 
SAMPLER 


SIGNAL 


^A/ 


SAMPLES 


SIGNAL  3 


/fiflly^ffOT  ,. 


INTERLEAVED  SAMPLES 


MEASURING 

AND 
ENCODING 


jiMfuir\ 


DIGITAL  PULSE 
STREAM 


The  Tl  System  samples  24 
voice  signals  and  encodes  the 
measurements  in  binary  form 
for  transmission  over  a  con- 
ventional pair  of  telephone 
wires  as  a  stream  of  pulses. 


The  timing  circuit  is  an 
inductor-capacitor  It  is  brought 
to  a  specific  frequency  by 
abrading  the  exposed  elec- 
trode of  the  thick-film  capaci- 
tor. A  computer  controls  the 
process  by  measuring  the 
frequency  of  the  timing  circuit 
during  trimming. 


Western  Electric 

We're  part  of  the  Bell  System. 
We  make  things  that  bring  people  closer. 


The  uncompromising  ones. 


<?3W56"78-c? 


ON  OEG 


i/x         SIN        COS        TAN        Hi 

yl                       StM"'                   COS"1                    TAN-' 

X$y         R*          6X         STO       RCL 

« n                .»  p                 i_m-               lor               10" 

ENTER*           CHS       EEX        CLX 

rs-                       IT                    CLR 

B  B  B  B 

B  B  B  B 
B  B  B  B 
B  B  B   B 

^  H  5  6  -i  e   -  ^5 


ON         PRGM 


FIX 

SCI 

ENG 

SST 

X 

BST 

s 

GTO 

ll 

E- 

xsy 

R* 

STO 

—  CLEAR  - 

RCL 

2+ 

'        PREFIX 

PRGM 

CHS 

OEC* 

REG 
EEX 

RAO 

STK 
CLX 

ENTER  ♦ 

x<y 

M 

In 

log 

9 

B 

|          | 

8    B 

x%y 

sin 

V                    ■ 

U'MV 

COS 

tan 

xxy 

■     4 

1  1 

W9B 

6 

X 

1 

1  1 

2 

3 

AX      , 

x=y 

+  H.MS           LASTx 

PAUSE 

1    * 

0 

1  1 

E9JB 

R/S 

□OB  < 

-«  ■  W  1.  ■ 

T  T    -     F» 

A  C   X  A  «  1 

a    as 

HP-21  Scientific. 
$125.00: 


HP-25  Scientific  Programmable. 
$195.00.* 


22     1.  WPI  Journal 


he  calculations  you  face  require  no  less. 


he  HP-21  offers  you: 

preprogrammed  functions  &  operations.  The 

I  P-21  performs  all  log  and  trig  functions,  the  latter  in 
\  dians  or  degrees,  including: 

rectangular/polar  conversion; 
j  register  arithmetic; 
i  common  log  evaluation. 

The  HP-21  also  performs  all  basic  data  manipula- 

I  ns  and  executes  all  preprogrammed  functions  in  one 
•  :ond  or  less. 

1 11  display  formatting.  You  can  choose  between  fixed 
i  cimal  and  scientific  notation,  and  you  can  control 

I I  number  of  places  displayed.  If  a  number  is  too  large 
d  small  for  fixed  decimal  display,  the  HP-21  switches 
a  romatically  to  scientific.  If  you  give  it  an  impossible 
ij  truction,  it  displays  E-r-r-o-r. 

E  >th  share  these  features. 


The  HP-25  offers  you: 

Keystroke  programmability.  The  automatic  answer 
to  repetitive  problems.  You  enter  the  keystrokes  neces- 
sary to  solve  the  problem  once.  Thereafter,  just  enter 
the  variables  and  press  the  Run /Stop  key  for  an  almost 
instant  answer  you  know  is  accurate. 

No  software.  No  "computer"  language.  You  can 

program  without  prior  programming  experience. 

Full  editing  capability.  You  can  add,  delete  or  change 
any  step  in  your  formula  anytime.  Easily. 

Branching  &  conditional  test  capability.  8  Ad- 
dressable Memory  Registers.  You  can  do  register 
arithmetic  on  all  8. 

72  preprogrammed  functions  &  operations. 

Fixed  decimal,  scientific  &  engineering  notation. 


t  N  logic  system.  It  lets  you  evaluate  any  expression  without  copying  parentheses,  worrying  about  hierarchies  or 
tructuring  beforehand.  You  see  all  intermediate  data;  you  rarely  re-enter  data,-  and  you  can  easily  backtrack 
find  an  error,  because  your  HP  calculator  performs  all  operations  sequentially. 

icompromising  design  and  craftsmanship.  One  reason  Nobel  Prize  winners,  astronauts,  cosmonauts  (an 
1  calculator  flew  aboard  the  recent  Apollo-Soyuz  mission),  conquerors  of  Everest,  America's  Cup  navigators 
I  over  a  million  other  professionals  use  HP  calculators. 

full  range  of  accessories.  When  you  buy  an  HP  calculator,  you  get  more  than  a  machine.  Each  comes  with  a 
nplement  of  standard  accessories  that  help  you  get  the  most  from  yours.  There  are  also  many  optional  acces- 
ies,  so  you  can  add  to  your  calculator's  capability  as  time  goes  on. 

st  the  HP-21  and  HP-25  at  your  bookstore.  Today. 

Bj  h  are  there  right  now,  waiting  for  you.  So  there's  no  reason  to  wait  until  after  mid-terms  to  test  them.  The 
ner  you  get  one  the  easier  your  mid-terms  will  be. 

f  your  bookstore  happens  to  be  out  of  stock,  call  us,  toll-free,  at  800-538-7922  (in  Calif.  800-662-9862).  We'll 
;  you  the  name  of  another  dealer  near  you. 


HEWLETT  lHd]  PACKARD 


'M 


;ted  retail  price,  excluding  applicable  stale  and  local  taxes — Continental  U.S.,  Alaska  &  Hawaii. 


Sales  and  service  from  172  offices  in  65  countries. 
Dept.  239B,  19310  Pruneridge  Avenue,  Cupertino,  CA  95014 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  1 23 


We  didn't  make 
this  one  up 

When  Gordon  F.  Crowther,  '37.  was  a 
little  how  he  probahly  never  dreamed 
that  he'd  grow  up  to  be  a  goose,  but 
that's  what  he  is  —  and  not  just  an  or- 
dinary, everyday  goose,  hut  the  biggest 
one  of  all! 

At  the  69th  annual  convention  of  the 
Honorable  Order  of  Blue  Goose  Inter- 
national held  recently  in  Minneapolis, 
Gordon,  who  is  engineering  personnel 
administrator  for  the  Factory  Insurance 
Association  in  Hartford,  was  elected 
Most  Loyal  Grand  Gander,  the  top 
postion  in  the  Order. 

The  Honorable  Order  of  Blue  Goose- 
is  a  fraternal  organization  made  up  of 
representatives  from  main  facets  of  the 
insurance  industry.  Currently  there  are 
approximately   10,000  members  with 
nearly  loo  ponds  and  puddles  (chap- 
ters) throughout  the  U.S.  and  Canada. 
In  spite  ot  Ins  expanded  duties  with 
Blue  Goose,  Grand  Gander  Crowther 
still  is  a  strong  WPI   booster.   He  serves 
■is  chairman  01  the  nominating  com- 
mittee of  the  Alumni  Association,  is  im- 
mediate  past   president  of  the  Hartford 
Alumni  (  hapter,  and  for  six  years  was  .1 
member  of  the  Alumni   Fund  Board.   He 
is  also  deepl)  involved  in  the  i<  >th 
reunion  activities  of  his  class.  Yes.  busy 

indeed ' 

I  l(       never  turned  me  down  once 

when  I've  asked  him  to  do  something," 

reports  Stephen   I.    Hebert.    '66,   secre- 

tary-treasurer  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

I  ooks  like  .111  extra      honk''  ,\ih\  ,1 
few    "qua*  ks"   arc  due  for   the   Most 

I  oyal  ( irand  ( iandei ' 


1948 

Donna  J.  Eteson,  the  daughter  of  WPI  Prof. 
Donald  C.  Eteson,  recently  became  the  first 
woman  dental  graduate  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  School  of  Dental  Medicine.  She 
and  her  husband,  John  Kishibay,  notched 
another  first  as  the  first  husband-and-wife 
team  to  graduate  from  the  Connecticut 
school.  ...  Dr.  Mervyn  W.  Perrine,  a 
professor  in  the  psychology  department  at 
the  University  of  Vermont,  is  also  a  director 
of  Project  ABETS,  which  is  concerned  with 
the  role  of  alcohol  and  marijuana  in  highway 
safety.  The  project,  which  is  located  at  UVM, 
has  twelve  staff  members  and  is  funded  by 
the  National  Highway  Traffic  Safety 
Administration  and  the  National  Institute  on 
Alcohol  Abuse  and  Alcoholism.  Dr.  Perrine 
was  a  cofounder  of  CRASH  and  in  1972  was 
the  originator  and  director  of  the  Vermont 
Symposium  on  Alcohol,  Drugs  and  Driving. 
That  same  year  he  was  co-recipient  of  the 
award  of  merit  for  research  in  accident 
prevention  from  the  National  Safety  Council. 

Russell  Turner  has  been  promoted  to 
manager  of  environmental  and  energy 
conservation  engineering  at  Miller  Brewing 
Company  in  Milwaukee.  He  had  been 
Milwaukee  plant  engineer  since  1967.  In  1963 
he  joined  the  firm  as  a  maintenance 
superintendent. 

1949 

Albert  A.  Dulac  was  recently  promoted  to 
director  of  technical  services  of  the 
Semiconductor  Products  Division  (SPD)  at 
Motorola,  Inc.,  in  Scottsdale,  Arizona.  He  will 
report  to  the  office  of  the  general  manager  of 
the  SPD  division.  The  company  manufactures 
and  markets  solid-state  components 
worldwide.  .  .  .  Frederick  Krauss  says  that 
he  is  "proud,  relieved,  and  broke."  This  year 
his  son,  Matthew,  graduated  from  Norwich 
University;  his  daughter,  Katherine,  graduated 
from  UMass;  and  his  son,  Courtney,  received 
his  master's  degree  from  Georgia  Institute  of 
Technology.  Two  years  ago  another  son, 
Clinton,  earned  a  BA  from  Boston  University. 
Krauss  says  he  hasn't  calculated  to  the 
penny  what  all  this  education  has  cost  him. 
"If  I  did  I'd  probably  be  floored,"  he 
comments.  .  .  .  Johnson  Controls,  Inc.  of 
Milwaukee  has  elected  Donald  Taylor  as  a 
director.  The  company  makes  industrial  and 
environmental  control  equipment. 

1950 

Arnold  Agulnick  now  holds  the  post  of 
general  manager  at  Roy  Lapidus,  Inc.,  in 
Newton,  Mass.  The  firm  manufactures 
hospital  equipment.  ...  Ed  Ahlstrom,  long 
associated  with  Avco  Corp.,  has  been  active 
on  the  steering  committee  for  building  a  new 
church  in  his  community.  Presently  he  serves 
with  the  American  Field  Service  Program 
committee  which  selects  students  to  study 
abroad.     .    Sailing,  travel,  skiing,  jogging, 
and  tennis  are  the  outside  interests  of 
Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr.,  who  is  located  in 
Lakewood,  Ohio.  The  Alveys  have  four 
children,  one  daughter  already  a  college 
graduate;  a  son  and  daughter  still  in  college; 
and  another  daughter  in  school  in  Maine. 


.  .  .  Richard  E.  Amidon,  vice  president  fo 
manufacturing  for  New  Hampshire  Ball 
Bearings,  Inc.,  Peterborough,  is  currently 
town  moderator  in  Hancock,  N.H.  For  twe 
years  he  served  as  selectman.  He  is  also  a 
trustee  of  the  Peterborough  Savings  Bank. 
.  .  .  Although  he  used  to  be  a  sports  car 
racer,  John  O.  Archibald,  Jr.,  says  that  r 
hobbies  are  now  less  "virile."  At  the  prese 
time  he's  interested  in  antique  car  restorati 
antique  guns,  amateur  radio,  sailing,  golf,  i 
sculpture  (mobiles  and  stabiles).  A 
professional  engineer,  he  has  been  associa 
with  the  Carborundum  Company  for  twelv< 
years.  He  belongs  to  ACS,  ASME,  AIME,  t 
Engineering  Society  of  Buffalo  and  the  Ne\ 
York  State  Society  of  Professional  Enginee 
George  S.  Barna,  Jr.,  is  manager  of  th< 
Tiros  program  at  RCA-Astrol  Electronics 
Division  in  Princeton,  N.J.  He  is  an  associa 
fellow  of  AIAA  and  was  a  member  of  a  tea 
which  received  an  award  for  developing  th( 
return  beam  vidicon  camera.  He  is  listed  in 
Who's  Who  in  the  East;  Who's  Who  in  Ne\ 
Jersey;  and  American  Men  Er  Women  in 
Science  and  Engineering  (12th  edition). 
.  .  .  Twenty  patents,  mostly  in  exposure 
control  and  control  systems  in  the 
photographic  field,  have  been  granted  to 
John  P.  Burgarella,  who  is  director  of 
engineering  for  electronics  at  Polaroid  Corp 
in  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  has  pioneered  the 
use  of  electronics  and  electro-mechanical 
devices  in  amateur  cameras  and 
instrumentation  design  for  photometry  and 
camera  manufacturing.  He  designed 
magnetics  and  electronics  for  Model  100-401 
series  camera  and  managed  the  technology 
for  the  SX-70  system  including  control, 
integrated  circuitry,  solenoids,  motor,  and 
"flashbar".  Son  Paul  is  in  the  class  of  1979 
WPI. 

Joseph  J.  Burgarella,  Jr.,  who  is  with 
Avco  in  Wilmington,  Mass.,  enjoys  carpentr 
and  gardening.  His  son,  Jim,  is  a  WPI 
student.       .  Richard  H.  Carlson,  now  chie 
control  and  development  engineer  at  U.S. 
Steel  in  Worcester,  began  work  there  as  a 
lab.  technician  25  years  ago.  He  belongs  to 
ACS,  SPE,  the  Wire  Association,  and  ASTfl 
Currently  he  is  chairman  of  the  electrical  an 
electronic  division  for  SPE.  ...  For  23  years 
Harvey  W.  Carrier  has  been  employed  at    \ 
United  Technologies  Corporation.  Presently  3 
he  is  associated  with  facilities  planning, 
which  is  involved  with  Pratt  &  Whitney 
customer  assistance  in  planning  and  the 
overhauling  of  jet  engines.  A  grandfather,  h 
hobbies  include  bicycling,  photography,  wo 
carving,  and  piano  playing.  He  is  a 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts  and 
has  had  one  patent  issued.  .  .  .  Everett  S 
Child,  Jr.,  of  E.S.  Child,  Jr.  Real  Estate,  is  t 
director  of  the  National  Association  of 
Realtors.  He  is  also  a  registered 
representative  for  Investors  Diversified 
Services  and  is  located  in  Seekonk,  Mass. 
.  .  .  John  T.  Cocker  writes  that  he  has  taker "" 
up  recreation  "in  earnest,"  chiefly,  sailing.    e 
Connected  for  many  years  with 
communications  technology  at  Bell  Labs,  H  ju 
claims  that  he  has  enjoyed  microelectronics,, 
but  "little  fame." 

3r  en 


on 


24     October  197b      WPI  Journal 


i  ire  dancing,  traveling,  and  church  work 
up  the  spare  time  of  Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr. 
;ntly  he  is  serving  in  a  staff  position  in 
hivision  responsible  for  the  operation  of 
•uildings  at  Polaroid  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Richard  Connell's  16-year-old  daughter, 
e,  has  won  her  school  basketball  team's 
'und  trophy  for  two  years  running,  while 
Martin,  17,  is  an  actor  with  a  bent  for 
.  Connell,  who  is  with  W  and  H 
eyor  Systems  in  Carlstadt,  N.J.,  has 
n  a  beard  and  is  taking  up  yoga.  .  .  . 
"Pete"  Cummings,  Jr.,  president  and 
ral  manager  of  Lowell  Corporation 
s:  "My  great  grandfather,  John  E. 
air,  was  head  of  the  math  department  at 
my  grandfather,  Louis  C.  Smith, 
lated  from  WPI;  my  two  sons,  Dave, 
nd  Steve,  will  both  graduate  from  WPI; 
ompany  was  founded  by  WPI  faculty; 
he  company  currently  participates  in 
plan  projects.  Without  a  doubt,  WPI  is  a 
jart  of  my  past,  present,  and  future!" 
r.  Donald  W.  Dodge  is  technical 
ger  of  the  film  department  at  duPont  in 
ington,  Delaware. 

hough  Stanley  Friedman  is  president 
aulding  Fibre  Co.,  a  subsidiary  of 
igram  Industries,  Inc.,  Tonawanda,  N.Y., 
>o  serves  as  a  vice  president  of 
>gram  Industries.  He  is  a  director  of 
len-Greatbotch  Electronics,  vice 
nan  of  NEMA,  and  vice  president  and  a 
Der  of  the  executive  committee  of  the 
d  Way  of  the  Tonawandas.  ...  A 
ed  professional  planner  in  New  Jersey, 
-Id  W.  Giles  is  serving  his  second  term  as 
irer  of  the  New  Jersey  chapter  of  the 
|  eas  Institute  of  Planners.  He  is  planning 
j  or  of  Wayne  Township,  N.J.  and  has 
1  n  several  magazine  articles  on  planning, 
i  /illiam  C.  Griggs'  16-year-old  competed 
d  Junior  Olympics  and  AAU  National 

Irs  meet  last  year,  all  of  his  six  children 
active  competitive  swimmers.  He  is 
Buffalo  Forge  in  Colorado.  .  .  .  This  fall 
I  ed  Grimwade's  son,John,  entered  WPI. 
i  ,/ade  serves  as  treasurer  and  manager  of 
s  larlton  (Mass.)  Woolen  Co.  He  is  also 
mor  of  the  Southbridge  Water  Supply 
l\  dvisory  director  of  the  Worcester 
|  y  National  Bank,  and  trustee  of  the 
I  bridge  Savings  Bank.  .  .  .  Earle  A. 
^  rom  is  vice  president  for  operations  at 
<  /ne  Rodney  Metals  in  New  Bedford, 
il  He  is  also  a  director  of  Vitraman,  Inc., 
BMgeport,  Conn.  .  .  .  The  president  of 
/side  Motor  Company,  Holden,  Mass., 
I  J.  Harrington,  Jr.,  is  currently  the 
or  of  the  New  England  Ford  Dealers' 
tising  Fund  and  the  New  England 
rs'  Parts  Co-op.  Also  he  is  a  member  of 
anning  board  and  a  trustee  of  the 
'  in  Holden;  an  advisory  committee 
Der  of  the  First  Federal  Bank  in 
faster;  and  a  corporator  of  Holden 
■t:t  Hospital. 

*;ently  Bartlett  H.  Hastings  is  district 
i  executive,  BSA,  Chester  County 
J:il,  West  Chester,  Pa.  The  family  has 
Wid  from  Maine  to  Florida  in  their 
*f  ;r.  .  .  .  John  L.  Hawley,  manager  of 
:jir  engineering  at  Walworth  Company  in 
ii,  N.J.,  is  a  professional  engineer  in 
/(lersey.  The  Hawleys  like  spending  their 
$Dns  in  Wingarsheek,  West  Gloucester, 


at  their  cottage.  .  .  .   Sumner  W.  Herman  is 
president  and  treasurer  of  Insurance 
Marketing  Associates,  Worcester.  He  is  an 
insurance  adviser  and  was  listed  in  the  1974 
edition  of  Who's  Who  in  Massachusetts.  .  .  . 
Now  the  manager  of  Middle  East  operations 
for  Dames  &  Moore,  Malcolm  D.  Horton 
expects  to  be  residing  in  Beirut,  Lebanon  in 
the  near  future.  .  .  .   Richard  N.  Jones 
serves  as  product  development  manager  at 
A.C.  Lawrence  Leather  Co.,  Peabody,  Mass. 
He  was  editor  of  the  New  England  Tanners' 
Club  book,  Leather  Facts,  which  is  now  in  its 
sixth  printing.  He  is  past  president  of  the 
Tanners'  Club  and  is  active  in  the  American 
Leather  Chemists'  Association.  He  is  an 
original  member  (now  snare  drum  sergeant) 
of  the  nationally  known  Linn  Village  Drum 
Band,  which  participated  last  year  in  the 
700th  anniversary  celebration  of  the  city  of 
Rothenburg  in  Germany. 

Frank  S.  Jurcak  is  manager  of  control 
systems  at  Turbo-Power  &  Marine,  Inc.,  a 
subsidiary  of  United  Technologies  Corp.  in 
Farmington,  Conn.  He  belongs  to  ASME  and 
IEEE.  .  .  .  Francis  E.  Kearney  currently 
works  as  plant  manager  of  Monsanto 
Company's  Bircham  Bend  Plant  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  He  serves  as  director  of 
the  Greater  Springfield  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  chairman  of  the  Horizons  section 
of  the  Wilbraham  Bicentennial  Committee 
and  is  past  chairman  of  the  western 
Massachusetts  section  of  AlChE  .  .  .  A 
registered  professional  engineer,  G.  Willard 
King,  Jr.  is  presently  superintendent  of  the 
die  department  at  Wyman-Gordon  Company, 
Worcester.  Last  year  he  graduated  from  WPI 
a  "second  time"  from  the  School  of 
Industrial  Management.  .  .  .  Ernest  A. 
Larose  continues  with  Thiokol  Corporation  in 
Huntsville,  Ala.,  where  he  heads  up  a  group 
responsible  for  preparing  cost  proposals 
related  to  solid  propellant  technology  and 
rocket  motor  manufacture.  He  was  the 
program  manager  for  the  first  stage  of  the 
Spartan. missile.  .  .  .  Currently  the  capital 
budget  coordinator  for  Creole  Petroleum 
Corp.,  a  subsidiary  of  Exxon  in  Venezuela, 
John  C.  Margo  also  has  served  as  vice 
president  and  president  of  the  North 
American  Association,  an  organization  that 
promotes  understanding,  friendship,  and 
good  will  between  the  U.S.  citizens  living  in 
Venezuela  and  Venezuelans.  .  .  .  George 
McAllan,  who  works  for  the  New  York 
Telephone  Co.,  has  two  sons  who  are 
through  college  with  one  married.  His 
sixteen-year-old  daughter  is  well  known  in 
metropolitan  AAU  swim  circles. 

At  the  present  time  Dick  McMahan 
works  in  Washington,  D.C.  with  the  Center 
for  Energy  Systems,  a  research  staff  of  the 
GE  Energy  Systems  and  Technology  Division. 
Daughter  Kathleen  is  at  the  University  of 
Maryland;  Andrew  is  in  high  school;  and 
Martha,  the  family  athlete,  is  in  junior  high 
school.  .  .  .  Although  Robert  L.  Moison 
heads  his  own  consulting  firm,  Robert  L. 
Moison  Er  Associates,  Inc.,  Apple  Valley, 
Minn.,  he  also  recently  helped  found 
Northern  Sun  Products  Co.  The  new 
company  processes  sunflower  seeds  and 
other  oil-bearing  materials.  Moison  is 
president  and  a  part-time  consultant  to  the 
firm.  .  .  .  Presently  Dr.  Herman  "Art"  Nied 
is  employed  by  GE  in  the  gas  turbine 


products  division  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  His 
responsibilities  include  development  of 
advanced  methods  of  analysis  and  computer 
programs  for  conducting  stress  analysis  of 
industrial  gas  turbine  components  subjected 
to  elevated  temperature.  Art  also  teaches 
graduate  courses  at  Union  College  in  the 
evenings.  .  .  .  Francis  W.  Norton  writes  that 
since  graduation  he's  worked  in  thirteen 
states  and  has  helped  to  supervise  forty 
projects,  some  funded  for  billions  of  dollars. 
Some  of  his  projects  were  concerned  with 
large  reactors,  dams,  chemical  plants,  and  the 
design  of  a  chemical  complex.  He  has 
received  many  awards  for  cost-saving 
suggestions.  .  .  .  Karl  O.  Olson  is  a  senior 
process  engineer  in  the  ITT  Royal  Electric 
Division.  He  is  active  in  church  groups, 
F& AM  and  as  an  advisor  to  Loyalty  Chapter 
DeMolay  in  Riverside,  R.I.  He  belongs  to 
ASME.  ...  Dr.  John  C.  Orcutt,  who  is  with 
Stauffer  Chemical  Co.  in  Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y., 
is  working  on  So2  abatement  process 
development  and  industrial  chemical 
manufacturing  processor.  He  is  interested  in 
competitive  pistol  shooting  and  is  also 
principal  clarinet  player  and  trustee  of  the 
Northern  Westchester  Symphony  Orchestra 
Association.  .  .  .  Also  at  Stauffer  Chemical  in 
Dobbs  Ferry  is  Frank  W.  Pease,  who  is 
manager  of  purchasing  for  the  corporate 
engineering  department.  Presently  he  is 
president  of  his  local  affiliate  of  the  National 
Association  of  Purchasing  Management. 


1951 

Charles  H.  Bouchard  has  been  named 
marketing  manager  of  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corporation's  industry  equipment  and 
services  group.  He  will  have  worldwide  staff 
marketing  responsibility  for  the  group's 
thirteen  operating  divisions.  The  group,  one 
of  the  corporation's  three  major  operating 
units,  operates  over  150  apparatus  service 
facilities  and  field  engineering  locations.  It 
manufactures  motors,  process  control 
computers  and  instrumentation,  control 
systems,  and  process  equipment  for  welding 
induction  heating,  and  ultrasonic  cleaning. 
Bouchard  joined  the  firm  in  1951  on  the 
graduate  student  course.  In  1968  he  was 
named  a  sales  manager  in  the  industrial 
systems  division  at  Buffalo,  N.Y.  That  same 
year  he  was  appointed  the  division's  product 
line  manager  for  adjustable  speed  drives,  a 
post  he  held  until  1972  when  he  became 
industrial  field  sales  zone  manager  in 
Pittsburgh. 

George  R.  Griffin  was  recently  appointed 
to  the  newly-created  post  of  associate  dean 
at  Anna  Maria  College  in  Paxton.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  the  daily  operation  of 
undergraduate  programs,  including  academic 
counseling  and  consultation.  Since  1955  he 
has  been  a  math  teacher  at  West  Boylston 
Junior-Senior  High  School,  where  he  was 
chairman  of  the  mathematics  department.  He 
has  been  a  part-time  instructor  at  Anna  Maria 
since  1967. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  I  25 


5:s-  f. 


G.  Eric  Friberg   — 


a-;-;e    :-  :  :  a-:: 
5  ;-  =:  ~c— s  :  .e- 
5  :ea_  -5— ec  ::  :~= 
-?-.  ::  —  r.ea    -a  ~ss 
s  -  re  '  E6Z  >a     " :  =  s 


1953 

George  T.  Abdow  and  hs 

z~ : "  a--  -:::   ■  s  r  :  r  :  ■   : a-       -  a  r  -  a  _ 

:::f-   •'•    -  '.zzt-z  z    a 

z-  z   -  rr"   "-="•'•  "        ■  •■  zi    z    ~z-  -  ~  ■ 

«•:::-  ::_f  ::fr  .:  :a  a  :~   ■•• :  •  a-:  :a 
:   ;:  a-  :  asa   "a:  a        a   ."     t5"     -' 
,'.>'::-r=-Vi:>:-'    s-  5." r     -a  -as 


1958 


Donald  S.  Inglis,  manager  of  the  eastern 
division  in  Rankin  County  (Mass.)  of  the 

-a.;  :  tt     -=-€■:  asa  a;-' 
::  -.-zres.^-:    Z  .'  ~z  ~  s  se.e-tee-   .e=*s 

--;-:i-.    -  r     .  r  ~  a:  ;'3~ 
.-5;:  — ?■•.=    -  ;•;  aa    =  :::_""    z~z 


z~.iT.z-" 

,'e~z-  a 


1954 


1959 


•;-    ■ 


-  a  a  a   "  • 
partner  in 

:  :  -   ~  a     a  - 


1956 


1960 

Richard  D.  Brewster,  l 

engineer  for  Wesbnghouse.  is  presently  on  a 

■-■'—    -zz-    z\z    -.'--—     -     .='-■---       .:-z-z    '-.     5 
■zZ.-z.-Z.    "z    .zZz'z-\.z     -    ■--.    z-zz.1    :• 

-r.'.-zrzr:  :•-  =-r     a    -  a       -  = 
r  famiy  is  resiifng  near  a  smal 

a:a  :-  "a      rr  a  a  aa    :'  ----- 

z-il   --.    l-z  •         -~-    ••••  "r:        :-•= 

is.5.  ;--■?- "    5  a  > :  "  ' :  a '  '-  '- ' '-  -■'  ~z  ~  ~z 

1961 


-Z-  : 

-:       ---r.    :-;  ~   •-:-    :  z- 

:    z-'-yz"  z'    '.  "      ■'•  r:  '----.'.—  Z  " 

"  -T      '---"-  '        '       Z      --    Z..-       t'z"    '    Z  ~Z 

.-.  :>;-:       "    --  =:  .a-r.-:     -a 


1962 


Bernard  F  Dowd  nas  been  named 
administrative  engineer  at  Hahnemann 
HospMa  r  ;:er.  For  nine  years  he  waff 

r  a-:  a-;  _ee-  a:  _a.-.-e_  :e  '.'e~c-  3 
-:sc:a    n  Medford    Mass.  Previouslv  he 
.•.-.-  :  ::;r_'i"  =  a:e  3  ass  I:~ra- .    5- 
Z     Z  :~Zz~  .  a~z  -:~a  -  _~r  ~ ;  a": 
-ea:~:  I:~:a-.    -:  -a~-f— a--  ~e  .•. 

z  -  -zz-    -  z-  z  ~z  ~-.z-  z'  :z  :* 

-rV-=-     a    55  as  a    a  ==    a;::       :a    : 

;-  2aa"   5:     .'.creste'  William  S. 

Properzio  -as    z.z  .a:  a  --Z    -  _a;  :. 


-a: 


1963 

3-    Richard  A.  Kashnow  -as  oee- 
-----  ----z  z  -------     z  i-'  >z  £-:  s:  a:    -a 

Research  and  Development  Center  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  In  his  new  position  he 
be  responsfcle  for  maintaining  a  two-way 
-  ; ...   :-    --;  -a    :"  :-a -.'.aa-    3E  s  ~a  :■ 
a::   a:a  i_a  "e5-=  ;:-a  a-:    "a  la'a- 

:     a:      a  2e— .e-   -  ".".  as  a  :    .5  :  " 
s:a:;   :_:    "     a;aa:"   ."     z  -  z  .-  .Yz\ 

5  a  ~ z-~z~-  :*:'=  -~a-  :a_  =" 


1964 

Richard  R.  Brown  was  recendy  promote 

-  a-  a:  a-  -,~z--.-z  : :  —  -'  .--'  -  z\ 

Zz'z  Zz'-.i    ":-z:-a:a-    "  S-_-.^dg'C. 

Mass.  He  wil  be  m  charge  of  all  adver  si 

:  a::  a  a"  :-  ;  a.-  :  "a  a:  aa  ai  :  :'  :' 
._  ;.t:  ..-_.__.--       .  .  -      - ..    :   ■  .     .,- 

work  for  the  firm  in  1970  as  a  pubic  relal 
stMH-yjfcra  and  later  served  as  manage'  ol 
advertising  and  sales  promotion.  Last 
•.;.z-z-.-  -a  :e:;~a  ~a-a;a-  :;  ::-:•:' 
inforrnabbn  and  advertising.  . . .  Currenth 
Steven  C  Grossman  is  property  mr  =g 
;-:  a: —  r*r  a  ...---.-.■  v  ..--• 
Cabot  &  Forbes  Co..  Cambridge.  Mass. 
.  .  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  M.  Jabionski 

;    '.'      .:■-.■--.    V    ■--■-     --    ■---■--■  '■-.    -     ■'--■    ■■■-■'-'-   '  z\ 

z--  .z-\.z-.  ----■•■  z  ■  "-a  -  --  -a-a  -.-  :-'  - 
May  10th.  One  of  their  gHts  was  a  trip  to 
:a-"  .:;     ..:.-.•      \  --■     '  z  .:  '  a    -'  V  " 

at  Ray-O-Vac Dr.  Mason  H   Somer 

a;:  aa   -  :  -.-a-..  -.  •  :•  ~a-:-  a'  -.a    -"  -  — ^ 
r-    -t   ."   .a-a  -.    :■  V-~    la-aa    -a:  a^ 
a;;:  -"a-:  -a  --a  -a.'.  z:r  :;  ---■?.-.-  : 
-.-  z  -  ~~  ~  z.  -.>  ia-  ~  a-"  a  "a"  a"   a"  "a 

-.-a-.  ~z. zZ'  .  .-  z~z  -  ':C2 
the  R£rD  arm  of  the  engineering  school. 
a:-  -  a-a-a    aaaa-a-   a.    -a.-     r-  :  --  aa 

a  a  .  -.   -  a"  a^-a    -   "  a  •    a-aaa:'     '.a.-. 

al 
-^  Eaniad  Ml  ■  *e  eatm'mteM  ifKhm. 


>5 


ain  Frank  J.  Pinhack,  a  pilot  in  the 
^  FR,  is  presently  stationed  at  Westover 
in  Massachusetts. 


>6 

•  rthan  H.  Pardee  has  opened  his  own 
ance  office  for  Occidental  Life  of 
Drnia  in  Atlanta  and  has  been  appointed 

|  leral  agent  for  the  company.  Last  year 
ined  Occidental  as  an  agent  for 
samerica's  Atlanta  branch.  He  is  a 

I   ber  of  the  National  Life  Underwriters 

^'ciation. 


♦7 

ed:  James  P.  O'Rourke  and  Miss  Mary 
Dolan  in  Worcester  on  June  28,  1975. 
O'Rourke  graduated  from  Worcester 
College  and  teaches  at  Our  Lady  of  the 
Is  School.  The  groom,  who  graduated 
the  Coast  Navigation  School  of 
■nomy,  Santa  Barbara,  Calif.,  is  now 
ing  for  his  doctorate  in  astrophysics  and 
electrical  engineer  and  project  coadviser 
PI. 
hn  P.  Dow  is  in  sales  and  marketing  at 

1  iman  Aircraft  in  Savannah,  Ga. 

J  radford  A.  Johnson  received  his  juris 
>rate  degree  from  the  University  of 
1  in  June  and  is  now  an  estate  tax 
ley  with  the  Internal  Revenue  Service  in 
iO,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Recently  Joel  B.  Kameron 
ne  the  first  graduate  of  City  University 
w  York  to  receive  a  doctor  of 
;ophy  degree  in  environmental 
iology  from  the  school.  He  now  teaches 
Himental  psychology  at  Ramapo  College 
w  Jersey.  .  .  .  Dan  B.  Levinson  holds 
Dsition  of  president  at  Crown  Mt. 

\    ruction  Corp.,  Aspen,  Colorado. 

:8 

1    t  J.  Attermeyer  works  as  a  naval 
*.   ect  in  the  organization  of  planning  and 
i  eering  for  repairs  and  alterations  for 

ibious  ships  and  is  located  at  the 
'^  Ik  Naval  Shipyard  in  Postsmouth,  Va. 

rganization  does  the  early  planning  for 
^  auls  of  amphibious  ships.  Attermeyer's 
alty  is  the  field  of  ship  stability.  .  .  .  Gary 
rn  has  purchased  Brookside  TV  Sales  & 
;e  in  Nabnasset,  Mass.  He  is  an  avid 
I  railroader  and  belongs  to  the 
/brook  Railroad  Club  and  the  National 
;l  Railroad  Association.  He  also  belongs 
;  Westford  Business  Associates, 
ormerly  a  financial  analyst,  Neil  W. 
'J  ee  was  recently  named  business 
"dms  manager  for  the  Coated  Abrasives 
:V  on  of  the  North  American  abrasive 
>4itions  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  Before 
■  g  Norton  he  was  a  project  engineer  with 
Jigton  Co.  .  .  .  Theodor  A.  Heidt,  who 
>$ieen  a  lieutenant  and  civil  engineer  in  the 
'  Navy,  is  attending  Carnegie-Mellon 
h^rsity  Graduate  School  of  Industrial 
i  nistration  in  Pittsburgh. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mess.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


William  G.  Polk  has  been  promoted  to 
data  processing  officer  at  People's  Savings 
Bank  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  He  joined  the  data 
processing  programming  staff  at  the  bank  in 
1967.  Since  then  he  has  served  as  senior 
programmer,  systems  analyst,  research 
analyst,  and  operations  research  analyst. 
.  .  .  Jeffrey  E.  Shaw  is  now  a  section  head 
at  Data  General,  Southboro,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Malcolm  Wittenberg  serves  as  a  clerk 
to  Associate  Justice  P.B.  Baldwin  of  the  U.S. 
Court  of  Customs  and  Patent  Appeals  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

1969 

Married:  Bruce  Lee  Turtle  and  Miss  Carol 
Ann  McClenahan  in  Centre  Hall,  Pennsylvania 
on  June  14,  1975.  Mrs.  Turtle,  a  graduate  of 
Pennsylvania  Valley  High  School,  is  employed 
at  Penn  State  University.  Her  husband  is  a 
doctoral  candidate  at  Penn  State,  where  he  is 
employed  as  an  instructor  in  industrial  and 
management  systems  engineering. 

Ernest  K.  Kenneway,  SIM,  has  been 
named  president  of  Specialty  Valve  and 
Controls  of  Fairview,  Pa.,  a  division  of  White 
Consolidated  Industries.  .  .  .  Donald  W.  Rule 
has  received  a  doctorate  in  physics  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  American  Society  of  Physicists. 
.  .  .  Joseph  Stahl  has  his  MBA  from 
American  International  College. 

1970 

Married:  Howard  G.  Norcross  and  Miss 
Bethel  Jane  Bladen  on  June  7,  1975  in 
Chatham,  Massachusetts.  The  best  man  was 
Garrett  Graham,  '70.  Ushers  from  WPI  were 
Peter  G.  Bladen  and  Thomas  Mallory,  both  of 
the  class  of  1970.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
Colby  Junior  College,  New  London,  N.H.  and 
is  currently  a  medical  secretary.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  partner  with  his  father  in 
their  construction  business  in  South 
Chatham. 

The  Graduate  School  of  Arts  and  Sciences 
at  Harvard  University  has  awarded  the  PhD 
degree  in  solid  state  physics  to  Stephen  E. 
Bernacki.  Dr.  Bernacki  is  on  the  staff  at  MIT 
and  is  presently  conducting  research  at  MIT's 
Lincoln  Laboratory  in  Lexington.  .  .  .  Maria 
DiNorcia  Alio,  MNS,  received  her  doctor  of 
medicine  degree  from  the  University  of 
Michigan  Medical  School  in  May.  She  began 
her  residency  in  surgery  at  the  University  of 


Michigan  Medical  Center  in  July.    Her 
husband,  Clifford  Alio,  is  research  director 
of  the  Michigan  Governor's  Commission  on 
Workmen's  Compensation.  .  .  .  Lt.  j  g  Paul 
Dresser  is  rounding  out  his  second  year  as  a 
Navy  pilot  on  the  USS  Midway.  He  and  his 
wife.  Sue,  have  been  living  in  Japan,  but 
expect  to  return  to  the  States  soon. 
.  .  .  James  G.  Hannoosh  recently  received 
the  degree  of  doctor  of  philosophy  with  high 
distinction  from  MIT.  His  thesis,  done  in  the 
field  of  mechanical  engineering,  was  entitled: 
"Craze  Initiation  in  Glassy  Polymers."  .  .  .  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Richard  E.  Scholz  have  adopted  a 
15-month-old  Vietnamese  baby  whom  they 
have  named  Tara  Lisa.  The  couple  also  has  a 
three-year-old  son,  Karl.  Scholz  is  with  the 
New  England  Telephone  Co.  in  Framingham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Suffolk  University  has  awarded 
Richard  Schwartz  a  juris  doctor  degree. 
.  .  .  Ross  Willoughby  serves  as  a  computer 
programmer  and  analyst  at  F.W.  Faxon  Co.,  a 
library  subscription  agency  in  Westwood, 
Mass. 

1971 

Married:  James  P.  Murphy  and  Miss  Laura 
J.  Winslow  on  June  28,  1975  in  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire.  The  bride  is  director  and 
choreographer  of  the  Nashua  School  of 
Ballet  and  the  Nashua  Ballet  Co.  Her 
husband  works  for  the  Impco  Division  of 
Ingersol  Rand  in  Nashua. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donald  Usher,  a 
son,  Christian  Donald,  on  July  9,  1975.  Don  is 
with  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.  and  is  currently 
on  assignment  in  Harrisburg,  Pa. 

Gary  Berlin  works  for  United  Nuclear  in 
Uncasville,  Conn.  .  .  .  Kent  D.  Borner  is 
southern  New  England  sales  representative 
for  Tenneco  Chemicals,  Inc.,  in  Piscataway, 
N.J. 


WPI  Journal     October  1975    27 


The  SR-50A.  The  SR-51  A. 


Texas  Instruments  is  steeped  in  cal- 
culator technology  from  start  to  finish. 
We  make  all  critical  parts,  and  control 
quality  every  step  of  the  way.  This  is 
the  key  to  the  exceptional  quality  and 
value  of  Tl's  professional  calculators. 


**  m  *• 


Capability.  Quality,  \alue. 

The  technological  achievement  under  the 

keyboard  is  still  the  reason  TFs  professional  calculators 

offer  so  much  quality  and  math  power  for  the  money. 


ngineer  .  .  .  Scientist .  .  .  Business- 
lan  . . .  Geologist . . .  Chemist . . .  Stat- 
tician  . . .  Student . . .  whatever  your 
eld,  if  you're  doing  more  than  basic 
lathematics,  consider  an  SR-50A  or 
R-51A  from  Texas  Instruments.* 

IR-51A:  simple  arithmetic  to 
>mplex  statistics. 

heer  math  power.  Log  and  trig  and 
yperbolics  and  functions  of  x.  The 
R-51A  has  these  and  also  statistical 
inctions.  Like  mean,  variance  and 
andard  deviation.  Factorials,  per- 
utations,  slope  and  intercept, 
rend  line  analysis.  And  there's  a 
indom  number  generator.  Plus  20 
•eprogrammed  conversions  and  in- 
?rses.  Check  this  list  for  a  closer 
ok  at  the  real  math  power  you  can 
it  in  both  the  SR-51A  and  the 
R-50A: 


UNCTION                         SR-51A  SR-50A 

og,  Inx 

yes 

yes 

rig  (sin,  cos.tanlNV) 

yes 

yes 

yperbolic  (sinh,  cosh,  tanhJNV 

)  yes 

yes 

egree-radian  conversion 

yes 

yes 

eg/rad  mode  selection  switch 

yes 

yes 

ecimal  degrees  to  deg.min.sec. 

yes 

no 

olar-rectangular  conversion 

yes 

no 

* 

yes 

yes 

* 

yes 

yes 

y 

yes 

no 

i 

yes 

yes 

x~ 

yes 

yes 

/y- 

yes 

yes 

l\ 

yes 

yes 

yes 

yes 

xchange  x  with  y 

yes 

yes 

xchangex  with  memory 

yes 

no 

,  and  A  % 

yes 

no 

lean,  variance  and  standard 

yes 

no 

deviation 

inear  regression 

yes 

no 

Trend  line  analysis 

yes 

no 

Slope  and  intercept 

yes 

no 

tore  and  sum  to  memory 

yes 

yes 

ecall  from  memory 

yes 

yes 

roduct  to  memory 

yes 

no 

andom  number  generator 

yes 

no 

utomatic  permutation 

yes 

no 

reprogrammed  conversions 

20 

1 

igits  accuracy 

13 

13 

Igebraic  notation 

yes 

yes 

(sum  of  products) 

lemories 

3 

1 

ixed  decimal  option 

yes 

no 

eys 

40 

40 

econd  function  key 

yes 

no 

onstant  mode  operation 

yes 

no 

?rformance,  accuracy  and  efficiency. 

)th  the   SR-50A  and 

SR-51A  de- 

-er  answers  you  can  tr 

ust.  Quickly 

id  efficiently.  To  problems  ranging 

om    simple    arithmetic    to 

highly 

73 

975  Texas  Instruments  Incorporated 

complex  calculations.  You  don't 
have  to  learn  special  entry  methods 
or  difficult-to-master  key  sequences. 
There's  a  better  way  —  TI's  algebraic 
entry  system  lets  you  key  your  prob- 
lem just  the  way  you  would  say  it. 
Naturally.  You  don't  worry  about 
losing  data  in  stacks,  or  keeping 
track  of  what  is  in  each  stack,  or 
remembering  if  the  stack  is  full.  The 
way  you  learned  math  is  the  way 
it's  done.  On  both  the  SR-50A  and 
SR-51A  — you  can  command  tremen- 
dous math  power  with  confidence  — 
from  the  beginning.  Power  and 
accuracy  you  can  really  put  to  work. 

Answers  are  calculated  to  13  sig- 
nificant digits,  rounded  off  and  dis- 
played to  10.  And  for  maximum 
accuracy,  all  13  are  held  inside  for 
subsequent  calculations. 

Scientific  notation  is  automatic 
when  you  need  it.  For  numbers  as 
large  as  ±9.999999999  x  10".  Or  as 
small  as  ±1.  x  10"i,!l. 


MVVL 


sign  |  decimal  point     decima, 
integer 


'Y.1 


exponent 
exponent 
sign 

Quality  craftsmanship. 

Quality  — it's  built  in  right  from 
the  start.  Texas  Instruments  de- 
signs and  manufactures  every  crit- 
ical component.  From  high-purity 
silicon  semiconductor  materials  to 
integrated  circuits  to  light-emitting- 
diode  displays  to  circuit  boards  to 
keyboards.  So,  we  design-in  and  con- 
trol quality  — not  just  monitor  it  — at 
every  level:  Materials.  Components. 
The  complete  system. 

To  assure  you  reliable  perfor- 
mance, every  calculator  is  subjected 
to  severe  environmental  and  relia- 
bility testing  prior  to  release  to  pro- 
duction. In  production,  every  one  is 
thoroughly  tested,  then  "burned- 
in",  then  thoroughly  tested  again.  If 
there's  any  problem,  we  want  to 
find  it  before  it  gets  to  you. 

Inside,  steel  machine  screws  an- 
chor all  important  structural 
elements  — plastic  welds  and  glue 
fastenings  aren't  good  enough.  A 
double-tough  Mylar**  barrier  keeps 
dust  and  moisture  from  getting  un- 
der the  keyboard.  The  case  is  high- 
strength,    injection-molded    plastic 

Texas  Instruments 

INCORPORATED 


designed  to  take  a  beating.  It's  a 
quality  calculator.  And  you  know  it 
as  soon  as  you  get  your  hands  on 
one.  The  heft  and  solid  feel  tells  you 
it's  a  fine-quality  instrument  even 
before  you  press  a  key. 

The  SR-50A  and  SR-51A  are  hu- 
man engineered,  too,  for  maximum 
comfort  and  efficiency.  For  a  hand  or 
a  desktop.  Keys  have  positive-action, 
tactile  feedback.  And  the  big, 
bright  displays  are  easy  to  read 
at  your  desk  or  on  the  go.  Slim. 
Compact.  Light.  In  your  briefcase 
or  on  your  belt,  you'll  hardly  notice 
just  8.3  ounces. 

New,  low  SR-50A  and 
SR-51A  prices. 

Technological  leadership  and  qual- 
ity craftsmanship  are  why  Texas 
Instruments  can  offer  so  much  value 
at  low  prices.  And  now,  with  new 
price  tags,  the  SR-50A  and  SR-51A 
are  better  values  than  ever  before: 
$99.95  for  the  SR-50A.  $149.95  for 
theSR-51A. 

SR-51 A  Preprogrammed  Conversions 


FROM 

TO 

mils 

microns 

inches 

centimeters 

feet 

meters 

yards 

meters 

miles 

kilometers 

miles 

nautical  miles 

acres 

square  feet 

fluid  ounces 

cubic  centimeters 

fluid  ounces 

liters 

gallons 

liters 

ounces 

grams 

pounds 

kilograms 

short  ton 

metric  ton 

BTU 

calories,  gram 

degrees 

gradients 

degrees 

radians 

"Fahrenheit 

"Celsius 

deg.min.sec. 

decimal  degrees 

polar 

rectangular 

voltage  ratio 

decibels 

See  them  at  your  nearest  TI  calcu- 
lator retailer.  Or,  send  for  our  new 
fact-filled  color  brochure.  It  details 
the  outstanding  capability  of  both 
the  SR-50A  and  SR-51A  with  full 
feature  descriptions,  sample  prob- 
lems, entry-method 
considerations  and 
more.  Write,  Texas  In-  q-J  L/L 
struments,  M/S358,  x  'Ui 
P.O.  Box  22013,  Dallas, 
Texas  75222 


*  The  SR-50A  and  SR-51A  are  our  popular  SR-.r)0  and 
SR-51  in  handsome  new  case  designs 

* 'Trademark  of  Du  Pont 


Heginald  to.  Dunlap  was  recently 
promoted  to  a  Regional  Controllership  in  the 
Folding  Carton  and  Label  Division  at 
International  Paper  Company  in  Baltimore, 
Maryland.  His  position  has  asset  control  for 
production  facilities  servicing  a  sales  region 
covering  the  twenty  three  coastal  or  adjacent 
states  in  the  eastern  area.  Previously  he  was 
the  Plant  Controller  in  the  company's 
Container  Division,  a  position  he  assumed 
after  a  promotion  out  of  the  Corporate 
Treasurer's  Organization  in  New  York.  Prior 
to  joining  International  Paper,  he  received  an 
MBA  in  Corporate  Finance  from  Columbia 
University. 

Presently  Joseph  B.  Kaye  holds  the  post 
of  president  and  manager  at  City  Cleaners, 
Inc.,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Paul  Popinchalk 
has  been  employed  at  Bovee  &  Crail, 
mechanical  contractors,  in  Richland, 
Washington.  At  the  present  time  he  is  in 
charge  of  counting    neutrons  on  a  nuclear 
power  plant  project.  .  .  .  Francis  J.  Wehner, 
Jr.,  is  associated  with  the  Electric  Boat 
Division  of  General  Dynamics  in  Groton, 
Conn. 

1972 

Married:  Charles  L.  Deschenes  and  Miss 
Michelle  A.  Paquette  on  June  13,  1975  in 
Albion,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Deschenes 
graduated  from  Rhode  Island  College.  The 
groom  is  a  product  engineer  for  Fram  Corp., 
heavy  duty  air  filter  group,  East  Providence. 
.  .  .  Linda  M.  Dupont  to  David  Gordon  on 
May  18,  1975  in  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Gordon 
is  an  engineering  programmer  analyst  for 
Morgan  Construction,  Worcester.  Her 
husband,  a  graduate  of  Northeastern,  is 
credit  manager  for  Mast  Industries  in 
Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  .  Glenn  O.  Mortoro  to 
Miss  Lynn  R.  Sanctuary  on  June  21,  1975  in 
Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Fitchburg  State  College  and 
the  Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing. 
She  is  a  registered  nurse.  The  bridegroom 
who  works  for  Electric  Boat  in  Groton, 
Conn.,  also  attends  graduate  school  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  Wesley  C. 
Pierson  and  Miss  Martha  M.  Dolan  in 
Northboro,  Massachusetts  on  February  21, 
1975.  Mrs.  Pierson  attended  Holy  Cross 
College.  Her  husband  is  studying  for  a  PhD  in 
the  department  of  pharmacology  at  the 
UConn  Medical  Center  in  Farmington. 

Born:  Recently  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mark 
Dupuis  a  daughter,  Bridget.  Mark,  who  set  a 
school  record  at  WPI  with  a  distance  of 
153'9"  in  the  discus  event,  is  still  competing 
and  winning.  Last  spring  he  set  an  all-time 
New  England  AAU  record  of  182'3".  He  is 
now  competing  on  a  national  level  and  is 
looking  forward  to  participating  in  the  1976 
Olympic  time  trials.  ...  To  Jack  and  Lee 
(Small)  Zorabedian  a  daughter,  Cynthia 
Lynne,  on  June  5,  1975.  Jack  is  with  the 
General  Electric  Boiling  Water  Reactor 
Operation  in  San  Jose,  Calif. 

Kenneth  C.  Arifian  serves  as  a  design 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford, 
Conn.         Schlumberger  Doll  Research 
Center,  Ridgefield,  Conn.,  has  employed 
Edwin  J    Dolph  as  a  senior  programmer  and 
analyst.     .  .  John  C.  Egan,  MNS,  is  head  of 
the  science  department  at  Tyngsboro  (Mass.) 
High  School  Arthur  G.  Gage,  MNS, 


30     October  1975      WPI  Journal 


teaches  physics  in  the  Agawam  (Mass.) 
Public  School  System  .  .  .  Lt.  Adrien  L. 
Gaudreau,  Jr.  has  been  transferred  to  Ent 
AFB,  Colorado  Springs,  Colo.,  where  he 
works  for  the  NORAD  Cheyenne  Mountain 
Improvement  Program  field  office  as  a 
member  of  the  Installation  and  Site 
Activation  Division.  The  object  of  the  project 
is  to  replace  out-dated  computers  with  new 
Honeywell  and  Data  General  computers. 
.  .  .  George  A.  Oliver  works  for  Exxon  in 
Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  Robert  Pascucci  is 
attending  St.  John's  University  School  of 
Law  in  the  part-time  evening  program. 
Presently  he  is  a  project  engineer  for  HRH 
Construction  (Management)  Corporation  in 
New  York  City. 

1973 

Married:  Fermo  A.  Bianchi,  Jr.,  to  Miss 
Marion  J.  Hulme  on  June  6,  1975  in 
Framingham,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Vermont  College.  .  .  .  James 
M.  Foster  and  Miss  Faith  Hull  on  May  24, 
1975  in  West  Taghkanic,  New  York.  Mrs. 
Foster  graduated  from  Becker  and  is 
employed  by  the  Dormitory  Authority  of  the 
State  of  New  York.  Her  husband  works  for 
General  Electric  Co.  .  .  .  Kenneth  M. 
Johnson  and  Miss  Andrea  S.  Hershoff  on 
May  25,  1975  in  West  Park,  New  York.  The 
bride  has  a  degree  in  psychology  from  Clark 
University.  The  groom  is  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Planning  Officials. 
.  .  .  Paul  W.  Melnick  and  Miss  Mary  H.  Hiza 
in  Fairfield,  Connecticut  on  June  28,  1975. 
Mrs.  Melnick  graduated  from  Housatonic 
Community  College  and  attended  the 
University  of  Bridgeport.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
technical  systems  planner  at  Avco  Lycoming. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Daniel  L.  Eide  a 
son,  Daniel  L.  Eide,  Jr.,  on  June  20,  1975. 
Dan  works  for  Hammond  Plastics  in 
Worcester. 

Stephen  J.  Baum  is  with  General 
Dynamics  Electric  Boat  Division  in  Groton, 
Conn.  ...  In  June  Jeffrey  R.  Berry  received 
his  MS  in  engineering  from  the  Thayer 
School  of  Engineering  at  Dartmouth. 
.  .  .  Garry  A.  Boynton  now  serves  as  an 
analytical  chemist  for  the  State  of  New  York. 
.  .  .  Paul  A.  Christian  was  a  coauthor  of  the 
article,  "Quantitative  Analysis  in  General 
Chemistry"  which  appeared  in  the  May  issue 
of  the  Journal  of  Chemical  Education. 
.  .  .  Glen  E.  Johnson  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  at  Tennessee  Eastman  in  Kingsport, 
Tenn.  .  .  .  Frederick  J.  Kulas  has  completed 
the  General  Electric  Company's 
manufacturing  management  program  and  will 
continue  to  work  as  a  project  engineer  in 
advanced  manufacturing  engineering  at  GE's 
circuit  protective  devices  department  in 
Plainville,  Conn,  until  this  fall  when  he  will 
start  the  MBA  program  at  Harvard  Business 
School.  .  .  .  Donald  A.  Kunz  has  received 
his  MSEE  from  Western  New  England 
College.  .  .  .  Currently  Philip  S.  Medeiros  is 
chief  of  engineering  administration  at  General 
Dynamics'  Electric  Boat  Division  in  Groton, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Thomas  O.  Murphy  is  a 
manufacturing  engineer  at  Filterite 
Corporation  in  Timonium,  Md.  The  company, 
which  manufactures  filtration  equipment,  is  a 
subsidiary  of  Brunswick  Corporation  of 
Skokie,  III.  .     .  Paul  Tassinari  received  his 


1974 

Married:  Paul  R.  Boulier  to  Miss  Linda  M 
Kelley  on  April  26,  1975  in  Gardner, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a  Gardner  Hig 
School  graduate,  is  with  New  England 
Telephone  Co.  Her  husband  is  a  research 
associate  with  FRL  and  Albany  Internation 
Co.  in  Dedham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Stuart  A.  Dan 
to  Miss  Ann  C.  Gienty  on  June  22,  1975  ir 
Bristol,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Daniels  is  a  Bed 
graduate  and  is  a  medical  secretary  at 
University  Hospital  in  Boston.  Her  husbanc 
a  chemist  for  the  Boston  Insulated  Wire  ar 
Cable  Co.,  Plymouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  James  F. 
Ingraham  IV  to  Miss  Stephanie  M.  Martir 
in  Glucester,  Massachusetts  on  June  21, 
1975.  Mrs.  Ingraham  attended  Anna  Maria 
College,  Paxton,  Mass.,  and  is  an  art  majoi 
the  Massachusetts  College  of  Art.  The  gro 
works  at  Polaroid  Institute,  Perkins  Chemic 
Division,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .Chester  A 
Kokoszka  and  Miss  Laura  Lipinski  on  Jun 
6,  1975  in  Meriden,  Connecticut.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Skidmore  College  and  is  a 
procurement  analyst  at  the  Naval  Underwa 
Systems  Center  in  New  London.  Her 
husband  is  employed  at  Northeast  Utilities 
an  assistant  engineer.  .  .  .  Peter  W. 
Kotilainen  and  Miss  Helen  Jean  Rosen, 
'75,  in  Fitchburg,  Massachusetts  on  June  2 
1975.  Mrs.  Kotilainen  is  studying  for  her 
master's  degree  in  microbiology.  The 
bridegroom  is  working  for  his  PhD  in 
biomedical  engineering  and  is  employed  as 
biomedical  engineer  on  the  critical  care  tea 
and  as  the  cardiac  catherization  technician 
St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Thorn 
Spence  III  and  Miss  Joyce  C.  Galligan  on 
June  21,  1975  in  New  Bedford, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Spence  graduated  fro 
St.  Luke's  Hospital  School  of  Nursing  in  N 
Bedford  and  is  a  nurse  at  Faulkner  Hospita 
Boston. Her  husband  works  for  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston. 

Cadet  William  C.  Britton  was  awarded 
BS  degree  and  commissioned  a  second 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  at  commencement  exercises  hel< 
at  West  Point.  Following  courses  at  Fort 
Belvoir,  Va.  and  Fort  Bragg  in  Georgia,  he 
will  be  assigned  to  an  engineering  battalioif* 
Germany  for  three  years.  .  .  .  Charles  W 
Chistolini  is  district  supervisor  of 
construction  and  maintenance  at  Texaco 
Inc.,  Albany,  NY.  .  .  .  Mary  E.  Downing  i 
process  engineer  at  E.I.  duPont  deNemouri)ei 
Co.,  Wilmington, Delaware.  .  .  .  James  C. 
Ferraris,  Jr.,  has  joined  the  Trane 
Company's  Commercial  Air  Conditioning 
Division  sales  office  in  Hartford,  Conn.  Tra|9 
is  a  leading  manufacturer  of  air  conditioning 
refrigeration  and  heat  transfer  equipment  fl 


':- 


lercial,  residential,  industrial,  transport 
aecial  process  applications  and  has 
s  and  facilities  worldwide.  Ferraris 
tly  completed  the  Trane  Graduate 
eer  Training  Program.  .  .  .  George  M 
ia,  Jr.,  works  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Diamond  Coal  Co.,  Knoxville,  Tenn. 
ichard  P.  Ludorf  has  been  employed 
jke  Power  Co.  in  Charlotte,  N.C.  He 
red  his  master's  in  engineering  from  RPI 
ne.  .  .  .  John  W.,  Thurber  is  with  the 

Facilities  Engineering  Command  in 
mdria,  Va.  .  .  .  Edwin  O.  Wiles  serves 
■esearch  engineer  for  Southwest 
arch  Institute  in  San  Antonio,  Texas.  He 
ieen  at  the  Institute  since 

Norman  Szamocki  is  working  at 
ehem  Steel  in  Bethlehem,  Pa. 

IS 

led:  Bruce  P.  Altobelli  and  Miss  Jane 
no  recently  in  Leominster, 
;achusetts.  Mrs.  Altobelli  graduated  from 
lewater  State  College.  .  .  .  Thomas  E. 
er  to  Miss  Marie  A.  Tassinari  on  June  7, 
in  Plymouth,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
;r  graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College, 
jroom  is  employed  by  the  U.S.  Army 
irial  Command  in  Texarkana,  Texas.  He 
,o  attending  graduate  school  at  Texas  A 
I  .  .  .  Robert  E.  Bradley  to  Miss  Cheryl 
amache  in  Paxton,  Massachusetts  on 
14,  1975.  The  bride  is  a  senior  at  Anna 
College.  Her  husband  is  a  programmer 
5.  Steel  Corp.  .  .  .  Brian  E.  Carpenter 
/liss  Susan  E.  Morrison  on  June  14  in 
Scituate,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Carpenter 
ated  from  Rhode  Island  College.  The 
t  is  associated  with  his  father  at  Long 
/  and  Insurance  Co.  in  Scituate. 
ruce  T.  Croft  and  Miss  LuAnn  M. 
5lla  on  June  7,  1975  in  Worcester.  The 
graduated  from  Eisenhower  College  and 

tngham  State  College.  Her  husband  is 
yed  by  the  Worcester  Foundation  for 
mental  Biology  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 
chard  E.  Gallagher  and  Miss  Elizabeth 
rie  in  Georgetown,  Connecticut  on  June 
75.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  the 
wich  (Conn.)  Hospital  School  of 
ig,  is  a  registered  nurse  at  Putnam 
lunity  Hospital,  Carmel,  N.Y.  The 
iroom  is  a  test  engineer  at  Sikorsky 
)n  of  United  Aircraft  in  Stratford,  Conn. 
ried:  Stanley  I.  Goldfarb  to  Miss 
;  A.  Dumas  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island 
ne  20,  1975.  Mrs.  Goldfarb  attended 
Maria  College,  Paxton,  Mass.  Her 
nd  received  a  graduate  assistantship  at 
vhere  he  is  studying  computer  science. 
avid  H.  Kingsbury  and  Miss  Elaine  A. 
.l  is  on  June  14  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
rti)bury  attended  Quinsigamond 
hjrtiunity  College.  The  bridegroom  is  with 
i;[>»i3nto  Chemical  Co.  in  Havre  de  Grace, 
JylJ .  .  Mark  J.  Koris  to  Miss  Francine 

is  recently  in  Andover,  Massachusetts. 
,.0  3  ride  graduated  from  Wheaton  College 
i(1qiesley  College  where  she  studied  for  her 
,0yir's  degree.  .  .  .  Vance  A.  Rowe  to 
.Qifoiane  E.  McGarry  on  July  19,  1975  in 

tfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Rowe 
■„.  Oted  from  Becker  and  is  a  store 


jer  for  Foxmoor  Casuals,  Inc.  The 
i  is  a  chemical  engineer  for  Monsanto 
in  South  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Lt. 


Douglas  R.  Sargent  and  Miss  Pauline  S. 
Conn  on  June  7,  1975  in  Concord,  New 
Hampshire.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Concord  High  School  and  is  employed  by  the 
Brick  Tower  Motel,  Concord.  The  bridegroom 
is  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Reserve.  .  .  .  Peter  E.  Schwartz  and  Miss 
Donna  J.  Corcoran  on  May  18,  1975  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Schwartz,  a  graduate  of 
Becker  Junior  College,  was  an  executive 
secretary  for  Miles  Shoe  Co.  Her  husband  is 
a  sales  engineer  for  BALCO,  Inc.,  Medford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Michael  Sundberg  to  Miss 
Paulette  Bulat  in  Connecticut  on  June  7, 
1975.  The  bride  graduated  from  Becker  and  is 
employed  by  Hartford  Publications  in  Enfield, 
Conn. 

Arthur  Aikin  is  employed  as  a  materials 
engineer  with  the  Naval  Air  Engineering 
Center  in  Lakehurst,  N.J.  He  is  with  the 
engineering  standardizations  and 
specifications  department.  .  .  .  John  P. 
Aubin  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania.  .  .  .  Masoneilan  International, 
Norwood,  Mass.,  has  employed  John  J. 
Balint  as  a  member  of  the  management 
development  program.  .  .  .  Robert  J.  Byron 
has  joined  Universal  Oil  Products. 
.  .  .  Stephen  A.  Caggiano  works  for  AFI, 
Inc.  .  .  .  Richard  Dachowski  is  employed  at 
Marlboro  (Mass.)  Hospital.  .  .  .  Lynn  W. 
D'Amico  is  with  Data  General  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Belden  Hemenway  Corporation  has 
employed  Joseph  T.  Del  Ponte.  .  .  . 
Michael  Dolan  has  accepted  a  position  with 
Universal  Oil  Products  Co.  in  Riverside,  III. 
.  .  .  David  M.  Dorosz  has  joined  the  U.S. 
Army  Materiel  Command.  .  .  .  Charles  W. 
Embree  is  a  field  and  purchasing  engineer 
with  Westinghouse.  .  .  .  Westinghouse  Corp. 
has  employed  Glencraig  Fraser,  Jr.,  as  a 
project  engineer.  .  .  .  Michael  J.  Gula  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Dartmouth  and 
Randolph  B.  Haagens  is  doing  graduate 
work  at  MIT.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Hart  works  for 
the  Federal  Communications  Commission  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

Robert  R.  Hellman,  Jr.,  a  graduate 
assistant  in  mechanical  engineering,  is 
studying  for  his  master's  degree  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  Robert  D.  Jamieson,  Jr.,  is  associated 
with  research  and  development  at  Butcher 
Polish  Co.,  Marlboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Gerald  S. 
Kahn  has  joined  Poly  Plate,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Edward  J.  Karedes  works  as  a  design 
mechanical  engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in 
Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Mark  Ketchum  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of 
California  at  Berkeley.  .  .  .  Union  Carbide 
Corp.  has  employed  Jerry  Kinter. 

George  A.  Klug  works  for  Sikorsky 
Aircraft,  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Terrence  Lee 
is  doing  graduate  study  in  chemical 
engineering  at  Cornell  University.  .  .  .  Leo 
Letendre  has  been  awarded  a  $1,000 
scholarship  by  the  NCAA  Postgraduate 
Scholarship  Committee's  other  sports 
division.  The  grant  will  be  used  at  a  university 
or  a  professional  school  of  his  choice. 
(Harvard)  Letendre  is  one  of  32  graduates 
nationwide  to  receive  the  award  and  one  of 
two  New  Englanders.  During  his  swimming 
career  at  WPI,  he  broke  all  existing 
breaststroke  records. 


ENGINEERING 

STUDENTS 

DISCOUNT  PRICES 

AVAILABLE  ON 


Texos 
Instruments 

Engineering 

Calculators 


PHONE  TOLL  FREE 

800-638-8906 

FOR  THE  CURRENT  LOW  DISCOUNT 

PRICE  OF  THE  LATEST  MODEL 

TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS  CALCULATOR 

OF  YOUR  CHOICE 


TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS 

SR-50A 


Performs  all  classical  slide 
rule  functions  — simple  arith- 
metic, reciprocals,  factorials, 
expotentiation,  roots,  trigono- 
metric and  logarithmic  func- 
tions, all  in  free  floating  deci- 
mal point  or  in  scientific  no- 
tation. Rechargeable  batteries, 
AC  Adapter/Charger  and  case 
included. 


TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS 

SR-51A 


Performs  logarithms,  trigono- 
metries, hyperbolics.  powers, 
roots,  reciprocals,  factorials, 
linear  regression,  mean,  vari- 
ance and  standard  deviation. 
Three  memories.  Scientific  no- 
tation. 20  preprogrammed 
engineering  conversions.  Re- 
chargeable batteries,  AC  Adapt- 
er/Charger and  case  included. 


ALL  THE  FAMOUS 

TEXAS  INSTRUMENTS 

ELECTRONIC  CALCULATORS 

ARE  AVAILABLE  AT  DISCOUNT  PRICES 

Mail  and  phone  orders  accepted.  Master  Charge 
and  BankAmericard  accepted.  Add  $2.50  per 
unit  for  shipping  and  handling.  Maryland  resi- 
dents add  4%  sales  tax. 

Use  our  toll  free  phone:  800-638-8906  (Mary- 
land residents  phone:  (301)  340-7200)  to  order 
or  for  current  discount  quotations  on  the  lead- 
ing brands  of  electronic  calculators:  Texas 
Instruments,  Hewlett-Packard,  Rockwell,  Ricoh, 
Kingspoint,  Corvus,  Novus,  and  many  more. 

THE  GUARANTEE 

10  day  money  back  trial.  If  you  are  not  com- 
pletely satisfied  you  may  return  the  Texas  In- 
struments calculator  you  order  within  10  days 
for  a  cash  refund  or  charge  cancellation.  In 
addition  Texas  Instruments  Inc.  and  Capital 
Calculator  Co.  Inc.  warrant  each  calculator  for 
a  period  of  one  year  against  defective  parts 
and  workmanship. 

Capital  Calculator  Company 

Maryland  residents  phone: 
(301)  340-7200 


701  East  Gude  Drive 
Rockville,  Maryland  20850 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1975  131 


Francis  B.  Clapp.   05,  of  Buderim, 
Queensland,  Australia,  passed  away  on  May 
18,  1975  at  the  age  of  93. 

He  was  born  in  Melbourne,  Australia  on 
November  28,  1881  and  graduated  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1905.  From 
1906  to  1920  he  was  with  General  Electric  Co. 
in  various  capacities  throughout  the  U.S.A., 
England,  Canada,  and  Australia.  He  operated 
his  own  business  from  1921  until  1930  and 
later  served  as  chairman  and  general  manager 
of  Associated  General  Electric  Industries, 
Sydney,  Australia  and  chairman  of  directors 
of  Australian  General  Electric,  Ltd. 

Mr.  Clapp  was  a  member  of  SAE  and  the 
Institute  of  Engineers,  Australia. 

Roger  B.  Hubbell,   09,  founder  and  owner 
of  Hubbell  Tool  Co.,  died  in  Wellesley, 
Massachusetts  on  July  2,  1975.  He  was  88 
years  old. 

A  native  of  Bristol,  Conn.,  he  was  born  on 
December  3,  1886.  In  1909  he  received  his 
BSME  from  WPI.  For  a  number  of  years  he 
was  a  sales  engineer  for  Greenfield  Tap  £t 
Die.  He  ran  the  Hubbell  Tool  Co.  of  Needham 
for  thirty  years,  until  he  was  eighty  years  old. 

Sih-Zung  Yang,  '14,  of  Taipei,  Taiwan,  died 
in  September  of  1974. 

For  many  years  he  served  as  director  of 
China  Products  Trading  Corp.  in  Taipei. 

He  was  born  on  January  9,  1894  in 
Shanghai,  China.  In  1914  he  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI  and  in  1915  he  earned  his 
MA  at  Columbia.  From  1916  to  1921  he  was 
chief  of  engineering  at  Glaston,  Williams  & 
Wigmore,  Shanghai.  Later  he  served  as  a 
manager  for  Elbrook,  Inc.  in  Shanghai  and 
Tientsin. 

During  World  War  II  he  was  director  of 
Merchant  Shipping  and  Defense  Supplies, 
Inc.,  Washington,  DC;  director  and  vice 
president  of  G.R.  Coleman  &  Co.,  Inc., 
Shanghai,  and  councillor  of  the  Alien 
Property  Administration  for  the  national 
government  of  China. 

Mr   Yang  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  AIEE, 
and  the  Friends  of  China  Club  and  the  YMCA 
in  Taipei. 


Allen  D.  Wassail,  '17,  former  director  of  the 
John  Woodman  Higgins  Armory  and  former 
president  of  Gaychrome  Co.,  died  on  July  7, 
1975  in  Worcester.  He  was  80. 

He  served  as  director  of  the  armory  from 
1962  to  1968.  During  that  time  he  represented 
the  armory-museum,  which  has  one  of  the 
few  privately  owned  collections  of  armor  and 
ancient  weapons  in  the  world,  at 
international  conferences  and  auctions.  In 

1966  he  attended  a  World  Armor  Congress  in 
Leningrad  and  Moscow  and  visited  museums 
and  collections  in  France  and  Germany.  In 

1967  he  purchased  a  cantle  plate,  protective 
armor  made  for  a  horse,  which  was  part  of  a 
16th  century  matching  set  —  the  Higgins 
Armory  already  owned  the  knight's  armor.  At 
his  retirement,  the  museum  owned  154  suits 
of  armor. 

Previously  Mr.  Wassail  had  served  for  17 
years  as  president  of  Gaychrome  Co.  and  as 
assistant  to  the  president  of  Alden  Electronics 
Co.,  Westboro,  where  he  had  been  in  charge 
of  exhibits  and  public  relations.  At  one  time 
he  was  assistant  treasurer  of  Sweeper  Vac. 
Co. 

He  was  born  on  August  21,  1894  in  Nutley, 
N.J.  In  1917  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 
He  served  with  the  Army  Air  Corps  in  World 
War  I  and  had  been  on  the  faculty  at  the 
University  of  New  Hampshire.  He  was  former 
chairman  of  the  governing  board  at 
Worcester  Junior  College,  a  former  member 
of  the  Great  Brook  Valley  Commission  and 
was  active  with  the  YMCA  and  the 
Worcester  County  Power  Squadron.  He  also 
was  a  member  of  SAE,  a  32nd  degree 
Mason,  a  Shriner,  and  a  member  of  the  WPI 
Advisory  Council. 

Daniel  T.  McCarthy,  '21,  died  in  Springfield, 
Massachusetts  on  June  11,  1975  at  the  age 
of  76. 

He  was  a  consulting  engineer  who  owned 
and  operated  D.T.  McCarthy  Associates  in 
Springfield  for  many  years.  Previously  he  was 
with  H.B.  Smith  Co.,  Westfield,  Mass.;  and 
Kohler  &  Kohler  Co. 

Born  on  May  3,  1899,  in  North  Brookfield, 
Mass.,  he  later  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI.  He  belonged  to  the 
American  Association  of  Engineers  and 
served  with  the  Army  in  World  War  I. 

Joesph  J.  Piekarski,  '28,  of  Westfield, 
Massachusetts  died  on  February  8,  1975  at 
the  age  of  67. 

He  received  his  BS  in  mechanical 
engineering  from  WPI  in  1928.  For  a  number 
of  years  he  was  associated  with  the  P.P. 
Kellogg  Co.,  Westfield,  Mass.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Allan  G.  Hall,  '31,  retired  manager  of 
distribution  for  the  Brooklyn  Union  Gas 
Company,  died  July  6,  1975  in  Ridgewood, 
New  Jersey. 

He  was  born  on  November  23,  1909  in 
Worcester.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
civil  engineer  in  1931  he  joined  Brooklyn 
(NY.)  Union  Gas  Company,  where  he 
remained  until  his  retirement  forty-two  years 
later. 

Mr.  Hall  was  a  professional  engineer  in 
New  York  state  and  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha.  He  was  on  the  board  of  governors  of 
the  Elsinore  Property  Owners  Association. 


Clement  R.  Barlow,  '32,  of 

Newcomerstown,  Ohio,  died  on  June  29, 
1975  at  the  age  of  65. 

He  was  born  on  November  24,  1909  in 
Fitchburg,  Mass.  and  graduated  from  WPI  < 
a  mechanical  engineer.  From  1935  to  1955  I 
worked  for  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel  Co.  in 
various  capacities.  Later  he  was  vice 
president  of  Heller  Tool  Co.,  Newcomerstov 
(a  subsidiary  of  Simonds).  At  his  retiremenl 
he  was  general  manager  for  Simonds  Tool 
Co. 

Mr.  Barlow  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kapp; 
His  son,  Dennis,  was  a  member  of  the  clas: 
of  1965  at  WPI. 

George  W.  Busby,  Jr.,  '36,  of  Greenville, 
South  Carolina,  died  on  May  2,  1975  after  e 
long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  North  Andover,  Mass.  on 
January  26,  1914.  Following  his  graduation 
from  WPI  as  a  chemist,  he  was  with  Lever 
Brothers  in  New  York  City  from  1936  to  19! 
For  four  years  he  was  plant  manager  for  Lc 
Angeles  (Calif.)  Soap  Co.  After  a  two-year 
stint  as  a  self-employed  consultant,  he  joine 
Standard  International  Corp.,  Andover, 
Mass.,  where  he  served  as  vice  president  ol 
manufacturing.  In  1967  he  became  general 
manager  of  manufacturing  at  Texize 
Chemicals,  Inc.,  Greenville,  S.C. 

Mr.  Busby  belonged  to  the  American 
Institute  of  Chemists,  the  American  Oil 
Chemists  Society,  ACS,  the  Research  Soci< 
of  America,  and  the  American  Association  1 
Advancement  of  Science. 

Ferdinand  S.  Skwark,  '40,  of  Monson, 
Massachusetts,  died  suddenly  on  May  13, 
1974. 

He  was  born  on  November  15,  1916  in 
West  Rutland,  Mass.,  later  studying  at  WPI 
For  many  years  he  operated  the  Monson 
Theatre  and  the  Theatre  Shop.  He  also  was 
correspondent  for  the  Daily  News.  During 
World  War  II  he  served  with  the  Air  Force 
and  the  Army  Airways  Communication 
group. 

Mr.  Skwark  was  a  member  of  the 
Republican  Town  Committee  and  the  State 
Club  of  Massachusetts. 

Leon  Rosenthal,  '44,  of  Haddonfield,  New 
Jersey  died  on  December  12,  1974. 

He  was  born  on  January  19,  1922  in 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  and  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1944.  Aft 
serving  two  years  in  the  Navy,  he  worked  f 
E.G.  Budd  Co.,  Philadelphia  and  RCA  Vict^ 
in  Camden,  N.J.  Later  he  joined 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.,  Lester,  Pa.  an 
then  General  Electric  Co.  where  he  became 
manager  of  the  structures  test  laboratory  ir 
Philadelphia. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  he  w| 
also  an  instructor  in  the  Technical  Institute 
Temple  University.  He  belonged  to  Alpha 
Epsilon  Pi  and  was  president  of  Temple  Be 
Sholom  in  Haddon  Heights,  N.J. 


32     October  1975  I  WPI  Journal 


"Our  Republic  was  never  created  to  be  a  leveler 
of  man.  It  was  created  to  be  a  lifter,  a  developer  of 
men. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  let  the  gifted,  the 
energetic,  and  the  creative  rise  to  new  heights  of 
achievement,  and  to  let  each  man  find  his  own  level 
on  the  stairway  of  existence. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  encourage  men  to 
meet  their  personal  responsibilities  and  to  shirk  no 
public  duties.  That  is  why  our  people  have  always 
been  concerned  about  the  honest  needs  of  their 
fellow  citizens,  the  chief  of  these  needs  being  liberty, 
justice,  and  opportunity. 

"Our  Republic  demands  that  the  nation  be  governed 
by  the  capable,  the  honorable,  the  far-seeing,  the  clear- 
seeing,  and  not  by  mediocre  men.  In  the  beginning 
it  was  so.  May  it  be  so  again. 

"Our  Republic  demands  more  from  men  than 
any  other  system  in  the  realm  of  self-discipline, 
dependability,  cooperativeness,  industry,  thrift,  and 
honor.  For  anyone  to  foster  class  consciousness,  class 
conflict,  misrepresentation,  covetousness,  violence, 
theft,  and  an  open  defiance  of  established  law— even 
when  done  "legally"— is  to  breed  anarchy  and  tyranny. 

"Our  Republic  was  not  designed  to  interfere  with 
the  inalienable  right  of  its  people  to  be  masters  of 
their  own  destinies. 

"Our  Republic  was  established  to  make  men  free!" 

We  welcome  this  200th  anniversary  as  we  welcome  every  important 
milestone  in  our  lives  ...  a  significant  occasion  for  celebration,  reflection 
and  rededication . 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


DECEMBER  1975 


lUPpanMSL 


\ 


w. 


frl 


f 


i\ 


*?** 


Hn^rf 


fl 


/tfwVMBi 


^ 


M 


m 


\* 


- 


'.•.' 


: 

i   A, 


%*. 


fv 


«m. 


by  the  editor 

you  reading  this 
jazine? 

s  kind  of  a  silly  question  to 
here.  But  a  lot  of  nonsilly 
ions  were  asked  of  alumni  in  a 
it  telephone  survey.  Some  250 
ni,  selected  at  random,  were 

about  their  reading  habits  and 
rences  with  respect  to  the 
il  and  Newsbriefs. 
ne  important  question  we 
looking  for  answers  to  dealt 
the  kind  of  articles  in  the 
il:  should  they  all  —  and 
,s  —  be  directly  related  to 
or  should  general-interest 
s  be  included  if  there  is  some 
tie  —  authorship  by  an 
ms  or  a  faculty  member  (such 

"Fire  up  above!"  article  in 
.ugust  Journal)  ?  One-third  of 
ndents  wanted  only  WPI- 
d  stories,  but  a  clear  majority, 

60%,  wanted  a  mix  of  the 
ypes. 

ith  regard  to  Newsbriefs,  we 
whether  alumni  wanted  to 
receiving  it  as  a  separate 
ration,  or  would  they  prefer  it 
integrated  into  the  Journal. 
than  half  want  Newsbriefs  to 
me  as  it  is,  while  36%  opted 
le  publication  instead  of  two. 


This  survey  was  done  to  help  the 
Alumni  Association  deal  with 
questions  raised  in  a  recent  report  of 
the  Communications  Committee. 
That  report  suggested  that  perhaps  a 
publication  entirely  different  from 
the  Journal  and  Newsbriefs  might 


better  serve  Association  and  alumni 
interests,  but  that  alumni  should  be 
surveyed  to  determine  their  attitudes 
toward  the  present  publications.  A 
follow-up  survey  is  also  being  done 
to  try  and  pinpoint  interest  in 
specific  areas. 


John  Boynton  returns? 


Not  quite,  but  the  replica  of  the 
peddler's  cart  above  was  just  the 
type  of  vehicle  that  launched  the 
fortune  of  WPl's  founder  a  century 
ago.  The  model,  built  in  the  1920s, 
was  lent  to  Gordon  Library  by  the 
Society  for  the  Preservation  of  New 
England  Antiquities,  in  Boston.  The 
cart  and  other  items  were  on  display 
in  the  library's  entranceway  this  fall. 


About  18"  long,  the  cart  is  made 
of  wood  and  metal,  and  it  carries 
over  200  small  items  of  household 
goods,  all  reproduced  to  scale.  Mops, 
pails,  dishpans,  mugs,  pitchers, 
clothespins  and  washbaskets,  bolts  of 
cloth  and  spools  of  thread  festoon 
the  vehicle. 

This  exhibition  marked  the  first 
time  that  the  Society  has  ever  lent 
out  the  cart. 


., 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 3 


The  WPI  Alumni  Association 

working  for  you 


Reunion  weekend 

Homecoming 

Fund-raising 

Chapter  and  regional 
programs 

Awards  for  service  to  WPI 

The  WPI  Journal 

Nomination  and  election  of 
alumni  term  trustees 

Group  travel 

Group  insurance 


'Opportunities"—  alumni 
placement 


Alumni  admissions 

Awards  for  professional 
achievement 

Student  scholarships 


Pi's  future  as  a 
rivate  college: 
ome  different 
erspectives 

hnald  F.  Berth 

■  past  few  years  there  seems  to  have  been  mounting 
y  for  the  future  of  private  higher  education.  Is  it  well 
ed?  And  if  so,  what  are  the  implications  for  private  sci- 
and  engineering  schools  like  WPl?  We  are  all  aware  of 
roliferation  of  two-year,  close-to-home  community  col- 
the  upgrading  of  "teachers'  colleges''  to  more  compre- 
k'e  institutions  in  many  states;  and  the  rapid  growth  of 
university  centers.  Soaring  operating  costs  (for  private  and 
:  institutions)  have  widened  the  gap  between  income  and 
ises.  And  the  current  public  disenchantment  with  higher 
tion  has  contributed  to  the  dismay.  Those  of  us  with 
memories  seem  to  forget  that  the  1960-70  decade  was 
ally  the  most  affluent  one  for  higher  education,  both 
:  and  private.  So  what  we  are  experiencing  now  is 
bly  closer  to  the  norm  —  trv'ng  to  keep  the  wolf  from 
oor  of  the  academy. 

t  what  about  WPI?  In  what  ways  are  the  broad  issues 
ace  private  higher  education  affecting  Tech?  What  are  our 


bright  spots  .  .  .  and  our  soft  spots?  There  are  a  number  of 
good  questions  we  could  be  asking  ourselves  and  the  faculty 
and  administrators  at  the  Institute;   I  have  chosen  to  consider 
those  that  follow,  hoping  they  may  stimulate  further  dialogue 
among  Journal  readers. 

While  a  few  engineering  programs  existed  before  the  Civil 
War  (only  the  U.S.  Military  Academy  at  West  Point,  1804, 
and  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  1824,  were  of  enduring 
consequence),  it  was  the  impetus  gained  through  passage  of 
the  Morrill  Land  Grant  Act  in  1862  (whose  author  was  a  New 
Englander,  Vermont  Senator  Justin  Morrill)  that  translated  the 
mechanical  arts  to  center  stage  throughout  the  nation.  The  act 
itself  was  the  basis  upon  which  public  higher  education  grew. 
Consequently,  it  is  hardly  anything  new  for  private  engineering 
institutions  such  as  WPI  (founded  in  1865)  to  compete  with 
public  engineering  at  large.  Massachusetts,  however,  was  to 
wait  until  1947  when  engineering  was  established  at  its  univer- 
sity in  Amherst. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 5 


Above:  an  engraving  of  the  WPI  campus  as  it  appeared  in  the  early  1900s. 


Below:  a  1971  aerial  photograph  of  the  WPI  campus. 


Sv 


-~       *^m*^ 


,/' 


How  does  WPI  appear  today 
impared  to  1900? 

ws  of  the  campus  in  1900  and  today  speak  for  themselves. 
I  is  a  vastly  larger  operation.  The  bricks  and  mortar  only 
»est  scale.  But  they  reflect  the  enrichment  of  the  offerings 
i'<  the  program  that  has  been  enhanced  with  new  laboratories, 
iries,  recreation  facilities  and  living  units.  Tech  was  a  really 
tan  place  then !  About  225  students  were  enrolled  then 
ipared  to  today's  2100  undergraduates  and  300  graduate 
ents.  But  with  this  physical  enrichment  come  added  costs, 
•qually  dramatic  changes  have  occurred  on  other  engineer- 
campuses  as  well,  and  it  would  be  interesting  to  see  the 
fores"  and  "afters"  of  our  sister  institutions.  I  think  they 
lid  show  that  we  have  fared  at  least  as  well  as  the  others, 
at  goes  on  within  the  buildings  is  more  important  than  any 
;rficial  external  exposure.  Yet  the  appearance  of  "pros- 
ty"  which  can  be  reflected  through  the  maintenance  of  an 
active  campus  and  its  general  "personalized"  tone  can  be 

J~  factor  in  selling  itself  to  prospective  students, 
■rom  my  own  travels  to  most  of  the  major  engineering  and 
nee  educational  centers  in  the  United  States,  I  would  rate 
physical  plant  (when  compared  to  other  technological  in- 
ites  and  even  most  university  engineering  and  science 
ities)  as  one  of  our  major  assets  in  attracting  prospective 
'rgraduate  students.  We  would  lose  few  applicants  on  this 
e  alone. 

What  about  WPI's  students? 

>w  are  they  similar?  And  different? 

ually  all  of  the  private  institutes  of  technology  (Clarkson 
ig  an  exception)  and  the  major  private  universities  offering 
neering  (Cornell  being  an  exception)  grew  up  alongside 
1  industry  —  e.g.,  Carnegie-Mellon  in  Pittsburgh;  Case 
>tern  in  Cleveland;  Stevens  in  Hoboken;   RPI  in  the  New 
k  capital  district;  MIT  in  Boston,  then  Cambridge.  And 
t  engineering  students  have  tended  to  come  from  the  im- 
iate  region  in  which  one  of  these  schools  was  situated. 
.  was  especially  true  until  the  conclusion  of  World  War  II. 
n,  in  a  sense  five  high  school  senior  classes  (1941-45),  bol- 
td  by  the  G.I.  Bill  and  the  demonstrated  achievements  in 
tary  science  and  technology,  flooded  the  nation's  engineer- 
colleges  —  public  and  private.  This  surge  allowed  institu- 
s  to  broaden  their  geographic  mix  and  to  strengthen  the 
lity  of  their  classes.  WPI  had  been  largely  an  engineering 
science  college  for  Worcester  and  the  surrounding  coun- 
even  as  recently  as  1950.  And  this  was  true  for  nearly  all 
lar  science  and  engineering  colleges.  Most  students  were 
imuters.  (Note  how  many  residential  facilities  have  been 
structed  in  the  past  twenty  years  on  most  urban-based 
puses). 


So  what  we  all  do  is  go  fishing  in  the 
same  old  pond  for  fewer  fish,  trying  to 
lure  prospects  by  more  attractive  bait. 


3.  Who  are  WPI's  'competitors' 
for  students? 

Of  course,  this  broader  reach  has  introduced  new  competition 

—  and  it  has  made  each  institution  in  turn  more  vulnerable  to 
other  local  institutions,  and  more  of  these  in  recent  years  have 
been  public.  What  I  am  suggesting  is  that  WPI  was  largely  the 
first  and  only  choice  of  generations  of  Tech  alumni,  in  an  era 
where  we  were  all  less  mobile  and  tended  to  go  to  school 
close  to  home.  That  condition  is  nowhere  near  as  true  today. 
Consequently,  we  are  forced  to  be  competitive  —  in  our 
programs,  faculty,  facilities,  and  financial  aid  —  with  other 
colleges  and  universities  who  are  also  competing  for  the  same 
students.  Thus,  the  broadening  of  our  base  (which  I  favor)  has 
made  us  increasingly  vulnerable  to  what  is  going  on  elsewhere 

—  and  this  of  itself  is  healthy  for  WPI's  future. 

While  WPI  draws  students  from  throughout  the  United 
States  and  the  world  (33  states  and  30  foreign  countries  are 
represented  in  the  1975-76  student  body) ,  its  students  are  con- 
centrated within,  say,  a  150-mile  radius  of  Worcester  — 
Massachusetts,  Connecticut,  Rhode  Island  and  southern  New 
Hampshire.  What  occurs  in  engineering  education  in  these 
states,  particularly  in  the  public  sector,  is  bound  to  have  an  im- 
pact on  WPI.  If,  for  example,  any  of  these  states  expand  their 
engineering  enrollment  capacities  at  the  undergraduate  level 
through  the  introduction  of  new  programs,  more  imaginative  and 
effective  student  recruitment,  better  experimental  facilities,  and 
recruitment  of  superior  faculty,  then  such  factors  will  have  a 
decided  effect  on  WPI. 


WPI Journal  I  December  1975 1  7 


4.  What  of  the  relative  popularity 
of  science  and  technology  among 
students?  Is  this  more  crucial 
than  private  vs.  public  competition? 

The  \\a\e  ot  student  interest  in  science  and  engineering 
following  World  War  II  and  later  from  Russia's  first  space 
achievement.  Sputnik,  was  translated  into  enough  engineering 
and  science  students  to  till  both  public  and  private  schools. 
But  then  came  the  layoffs.  The  serious  engineering  unem- 
ployment in  some  of  WPl's  traditional  drawing  area  had  to  be 
telt  in  reduced  student  interest  in  engineering.  Nationally,  we 
experienced  a  one-third  decline  in  enrolled  freshmen  alone. 
Physics  has  fared  equally  poorly.  Add  to  this  the  growing 
ranks  of  unemployed  PhD's  in  many  areas  of  science, 
especially  high  energy  physics  and  astronomy. 

Most  engineering  and  science  students  are  career-minded: 
they're  preparing  themselves  tor  jobs.  If  they  observe  relatives 
and  family  friends  who  are  engineers  or  scientists  out  of  work, 
little  can  be  done  by  any  one  educational  institution  to  rekin- 
dle an  interest.  So  what  we  all  do  is  go  fishing  in  the  same  old 
pond  tor  fewer  fish,  trying  to  lure  prospects  by  more  attractive 
bait.  It  is  then  that  private  colleges  and  universities  rediscover 
the  public  institutions  —  and  begin  to  fear  the  worst.  Yet  the 
public  engineering  institutions  have  experienced  similar 
declines  in  enrollments:   some,  in  tact,  have  been  harder  hit 
than  the  private  schools. 

The  cyclical  features  ot  our  economic  system,  so  affected 
these  days  by  federal  priorities  and  policies,  affect  private 
engineering  and  science  colleges  like  WPI  far  more,  in  my 
view,  than  does  the  emergence  ot  strong  public  engineering 
centers. 

Unfortunately,  educational  institutions  are  quite  inelastic. 
Physical  plants  carry  with  them  substantial  fixed  costs, 
requiring  "full  enrollments."  And  because  education  is  labor- 
intensive,  COSt-CUtting  options  are  modest  unless  faculty  and 
staff  are  reduced.  And  it  they  are,  who  goes?  The  small 
department?  The  assistant  professors?  Administrators? 

We  will  have  to  continue  to  live  with  these  swings  in  the 
economy,  and  their  effects  on  the  pool  of  prospective  students 
for  science  and  engineering.  This  will  require  increased 
flexibility   ol  the  schools:   contingency  funds  to  sustain  the 
college  through  rough  periods:   and  continued  vigorous  and 
imaginative  education  programs  to  attract  the  best  youth. 


What  we  are  experiencing  now  is  probably 
closer  to  the  nonn  —  trying  to  keep  the 
wolj  from  the  door  of  the  academy. 


5.  How  important  today  is  science 
and  technology  to  the  economy  in 
areas  where  most  WPI  students  live 

Unlike  an  Iowa  State  or  University  of  Idaho,  WPI  is  situatec 
in  a  region  which  is  highly  urban  and  industrialized,  and  whi 
depends  on  substantial  numbers  of  persons  in  engineering  an< 
the  sciences.  About  7.5%  of  the  engineers  graduated  in  the 
United  States  in  1974  earned  their  bachelor's  degrees  in  one 
the  three  southern  New  England  states.  And  it  is  only  in 
Massachusetts  and  New  York  State  that  more  than  half  of  th 
engineering  degrees  were  awarded  by  private  engineering  in- 
stitutions. 

But  what  has  happened  to  southern  New  England's  indust 
—  particularly  since  1900  —  compared  to  what  has  occurre 
elsewhere?  We  have  seen  the  decay  of  dozens  of  old  mill 
towns  —  Lowell,  Haverhill,  Holyoke,  Manchester,  Providen< 
to  name  a  few  —  whose  plants  and  equipment  became  obso 
lete  and  who,  in  several  instances,  did  not  gauge  the  competi 
tion  that  came  from  new  advances  in  technology  and  busines: 
In  spite  of  the  efforts  of  these  and  similar  New  England  com 
munities,  it  has  been  difficult  to  restore  the  economic  prosper 
ity  enjoyed  for  several  generations.  The  infusion  of  new  tech 
nology,  especially  of  the  kind  associated  with  Route  128  has 
helped,  but  this  is  going  on  in  other  regions  of  the  United 
States  as  well.  However,  the  region  once  distinguished  tor  its 
"Yankee  ingenuity"  and  as  a  leading  center  for  technological 
employment  no  longer  enjoys  the  commanding  position  it  on( 
did.  This,  by  itself,  has  and  will  have  an  impact  on  private  an 
public  technological  education. 

It  was  the  perceived  technological  vitality  ot  the  region  ths 
supported  the  early  developments  ot  institutions  like  WPI. 
How  technology  will  figure  in  the  future  of  the  region  must  I 
factored  into  the  programs  of  WPI.  One  wonders  what  kinds 
of  technology-based  organizations  can  flourish  in  a  region 
where  taxes,  fuel  costs,  transportation,  and  government  servid 
are  at  or  among  the  highest  in  the  nation? 

The  future  degree  of  prosperity  in  Lynn,  Worcester,  or 
Springfield  is  likely  to  be  more  of  an  influence  on  the 
development  of  present  interests  among  area  youth  for 
engineering  and  applied  science.  A  few  warning  signals  are 
present:  the  numbers  of  college-age  youth  is  declining;  the 
percentage  going  on  to  college  is  declining;  students  interestd 
in  engineering  are  now  roughly  6%  of  the  total,  down  fron 
high  of  about  12%  in  the  early  1950s.  We  may  once  again 
a  decreased  mobility  in  our  society,  due  to  energy  costs  alone 
Iliis  may  mean  that  more  WPI  students  will  once  again  come 
from  the  local  region.  WPI  will  have  to  continually  monitor  ij 
programs  for  their  effectiveness  in  preparing  graduates  for 
significant  leadership  in  the  new  science  and  technology  oulet 

Industry  which  is  located  within  the  150-mile  region  and 
which  requires  engineers  and  scientists  as  keystones  tor  their 
success  must  also  support  the  educational  institutions  that  ser| 
duir  interests.  Indeed,  most  of  us  in  higher  education  would 
be  happy  to  have  gifts  which  match  those  slipped  under  the 
tables  to  governments  abroad,  to  say  nothing  of  here  in  the 

United   States. 


8/Decembt-        WPI  Journal 


6.  Do  WPI's  finances  match  its 
changing  needs? 

How  well  off  is  WPI?  How  can  I  answer  this  question?  No 
two  educational  institutions  are  really  alike  enough  to  allow 
objective  comparisons.  Even  among  the  private  institutes  of 
technology  which  seem  the  closest  models  to  WPI,  several 
have  sizeable  graduate  programs  which  both  generate  and  con- 
sume substantial  funds.  A  few  have  reasonably  large  shares  of 
their  enrollment  in  lower  educational  cost-per-student  pro- 
grams such  as  business  and  the  liberal  arts.  Some  have  modern 
facilities  while  others  may  spend  a  relatively  larger  part  of 
their  operating  budget  to  maintain  less  efficient  facilities. 

In  absolute  terms,  WPI's  endowment  would  place  it  in  the 
top  100  "richest"  institutions;  probably  within  the  top  75. 
Yet  when  compared  to  Rice  or  Caltech,  we  are  a  distant  rich 
cousin !   I  have  found  three  simple  ratios  to  serve  as  bench- 
marks upon  which  to  gauge  financial  strength  of  an  institution, 
particularly  a  college  rather  than  a  research  university.  They 
are: 

a)  Annual  Giving/Operating  Budget 

b)  Endowment/Operating  Budget 

c)  Endowment/Student 

Based  on  1971-72  data,  WPI  showed  the  following,  compared 
to  a  few  other  private  schools: 

(a) 
WPI  0.210 

Caltech  0.244 

Carnegie-Mellon  0.119 

Lehigh  0.168 

MIT  0.187 

RPI  0.170 

Stevens  0.092 

For  ratio  (a),  annual  giving  in  1971-72  to  the  operating  budget, 
we  are  doing  reasonably  well.  Endowment  coverage  contrasted 
with  annual  expenditures  (ratio  b)  is  also  good,  but  endow- 
ment in  back  of  each  student  (c)  is  relatively  poor.  [Editor's 
note:  the  current  figure  is  even  lower,  at  around  $10,500.]  Caution 
should  be  advised  in  drawing  conclusions  from  this  one-year 
performance. 

As  was  pointed  out  by  President  Hazzard  in  the  December 
1974  WPI  Journal,  our  endowment  income  kept  reasonable 
pace  with  operating  expense  (at  about  15%  of  the  latter)  but 
since  1966,  endowment  performance  has  not  been  able  to 
maintain  that  share.  This  is  one  area  that  needs  strengthening  for 
the  balance  of  this  century.  A  substantially  improved  level  of 
alumni  annual  giving  (both  in  numbers  of  alumni  making  gifts 
and  in  the  level  of  the  average  gift)  will  also  help. 


(b) 

(c) 

3.46 

$13,700 

3.48 

72,500 

3.65 

29,600 

2.61 

12,500 

3.75 

49,000 

3.22 

17,200 

4.31 

26,000 

WPI  Journal  I  December  1975/9 


7.  Will  students,  and  their  parents, 
be  willing  to  pay  for  private  higher 
education  in  the  future? 

Fred  Hargadon,  Stanford's  admissions  dean,  commented  in 
the  January  1975  Stanford  Observer,  that  "Given  the  variety  of 
consumer  choices,  colleges  should  not  underestimate  the  im- 
portance of  willingness  to  pay  tor  college  education  as  con- 
trasted with  simple  ahility  to  pay.  Willingness  is  far  more  dif- 
ficult to  measure  precisely  (in  terms  of  determining  financial 
aid  award  levels)  than  ahility  to  pay.  The  electrician  in  New 
York  City  may  earn  the  same  income  as  the  vice  president  of 
a  hank  in  a  small  midwestern  town,  yet  they  are  likely  to 
allocate  their  income  in  quite  different  ways." 

Turning  to  the  region  itself,  the  citizens  of  Massachusetts, 
Connecticut,  Rhode  Island  and  southern  New  Hampshire,  who 
have  been  and  are  so  dependent  on  technological  enterprise  to 
sustain  their  economy,  we  owe  much  to  a  private  engineering 
school  like  WPI.  They  have  enjoyed  the  productivity  of 
professional  scientists  and  engineers  in  numbers  well  beyond 
those  they  have  supported  as  taxpayers  in  the  region's  public 
science  and  engineering  programs.  To  put  it  in  blunt  terms, 


they  have  had  a  bargain.  And  they  can  still  have  a  bargairl 
supporting  private  education  where  more  of  the  education;! 
costs  are  covered  by  endowments  and  established  facilities! 
Happily,  there  is  growing  evidence  that  the  public  and  the 
politicians  recognize  this.  Their  help,  particularly  in  subside 
the  expenses  of  needy  students  at  existing  private  schools,  I 
end  up  costing  them  far  less  than  in  financing  any  facilities! 
pansion  for  undergraduates  in  public  engineering  colleges.  I 

What  about  the  future  economic  vitality  of  the  southern 
New  England  region?  How  prominent  a  role  will  science  : , 
technology  play?  How  attractive  will  a  career  in  science  o| 
engineering  be  to  tomorrow's  teenager?  Will  a  college 
education  continue  to  be  a  goal  valued  by  a  majority  ot  tr| 
population?  Will  WPI  have  the  means  and  the  people  to 
provide  an  appealing  and  rewarding  education  in  science  a: 
technology? 

Questions  like  these  seem  equally  as  important  as  the  p 
vs.  private  issue  which  seems  to  have  commanded  our  at- 
tention of  late.  Some  lie  well  beyond  the  control  of  the  In! 
stitute,  its  alumni  and  benefactors.  But  working  together  tr, 
can  exert  some  real  influence  in  ensuring  the  values  of  in- 
dependence that  have  been,  in  the  end,  the  real  hallmark 
private  higher  education.  || 


Donald  F.  Berth,  '57,  is  a  director  of  special  projects  at  Corns 
University's  College  of  Engineering.  He  has  long  been  interest 
in  history  and  in  engineering  education.  In  1966  he  founded  C 
ne/l's  engineering  magazine.  Engineering:  Cornell  Quarterly,  a, 
was  its  editor  through  1971. 

Berth  holds  bachelor's  and  master's  degrees  in  chemical 
engineering  from  WPI. 


10 1  December  19/'     WPI  Journal 


The 
Impossible 

Job? 


•/anted,"  the  advertisement  might  say:  "President,  to 
rect  an  enterprise  manufacturing  societal  products, 
versified  interests  range  from  agronomy  to  zoology, 
jration  of  manufacturing  process:  3.7  years.  Profit 
•tential:  none.  Loss:  $5,500  on  every  unit  produced. 
"President  must  represent  company  to  vast  constit- 

Incy:   63,000  shareholders,  state  legislators,  govern- 
ent  bureaucrats,  and  the  community  at  large. 
"Salary:  not  commensurate  with  responsibilities." 
Uncommonly  candid?  Perhaps,  as  far  as  the  ad  goes. 
;t  it  does  not  tell  all.  Nowhere  does  it  mention: 

►  That  the  company's  diversity  is  held  together  only 
'  a  shaky  commonality — and  supported  by  even  more 
iuous  financing. 

►  That  the  volatility  of  the  product  and  the  experi- 


mtalism  of  its  labor  force  have  made  legislators  and 
izens,  on  whose  support  the  manufacturer  depends, 
:reasingly  wary  of  the  enterprise. 


A  Special  Report 
on  What  It  Takes 
to  Run  a  College 
These  Days 


►  That  the  corporation  is  a  proving  ground  for 
social  legislation,  a  bellwether  of  social  change. 

►  That  the  institution's  former  products — many  of 
them  gone  from  the  scene  for  decades — are,  in  effect, 
its  majority  shareholders. 

►  That  it  is  their  contributions  that  in  large  part 
must  finance  today's  manufacturing  deficits. 

Nor  does  the  advertisement  prepare  its  reader  for 
the  unusual  nature  of  the  products  themselves: 

►  That  they  must  be  treated  not  as  mere  products, 
but  as  elements  demanding  a  place  in  the  councils  of 
their  producers. 

►  That  the  products  are  being  marketed  with  ever- 
greater  difficulty  in  the  job-scarce  society  for  which 
they  are  produced. 

Nor  does  the  help-wanted  ad  hint  at  the  unique 
qualities  of  the  enterprise's  labor  force: 

►  That  the  workers  expect — and  demand — to  be 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 11 


treated  not  merely  as  workers,  hut  as  part  of  the  com- 
pany's governance. 

►  That,   at  the  same  time,  they  arc  unionizing  in 
ever-greater  numbers. 

And  the  ad  omits  entirely   the  most  telling  point  of 
all: 

►  That  the  exigencies  of  the  job  arc  likely  to  drive 
the  president  from  his  office  in  five  years. 

LITTLE  WONDER  that  Herman  H  Wells,  for  24  years 
president  of  Indiana  I  niversi  should  say  that  a  col- 
lege  president    needs   to   be    born    "with    the   physical 


12  WPIJournal 


stamina  of  a  Greek  athlete,  the  cunning  of  a  Machia 
velli,  the  wisdom  of  a  Solomon,  the  courage  of  a  lion 
if  possible — but  above  all,  the  stomach  of  a  goat." 

the  colleges  and  universities  that  modern  presi- 
dents  are  called  upon  to  govern  are  rarely  in  go(X 
health. 

An  ever-growing  number  of  America's  institutions  o! 
higher  learning — and  not  merely  the  newer  and  inevi 
tably  hustling  ones — sway  at  the  edge  of  a  financia 
abyss.  Institutions  whose  names  are  synonymous  witf 
academic  excellence  and  financial  invulnerability — tin 


COPYRIGHT    1975    I1Y   LDIIORIAI.  PROJI  (  I  >-    I  UN    OHVATION,    INC. 


HI. 


vi  >ws-and-orphans  stocks  of  higher  education — are 
in  nancial  trouble.  One  Ivy  League  university,  after 

lg  into  the  principal  of  its  endowment  by  over 

-million  in  seven  years,  has  embarked  on  a  three- 
austerity  program  to  eliminate  the  university's 

:it  spending. 
Carnegie  Commission  report  estimated  in   1973 

fully  two-thirds  of  the  nation's  colleges  and  univer- 

5  were  in  serious  financial  difficulty  or  headed  that 
Two  more  years  of  inflation  have  not  diminished 

count. 

ichard  P.  Bailey,  former  president  of  Hamline  Uni- 


versity, wrote:  "Resignations  are  usually  followed  by  a 
listing  of  personal  accomplishments.  One  item  only,  on 
my  list:  for  seven  years  I  survived." 

Should  the  help-wanted  ad  be  amended  to  reflect  the 
perilousness  of  the  undertaking? 

how  much  of  the  individuality  of  his  college  or  univer- 
sity, for  example,  must  a  president  be  prepared  to 
sacrifice? 

How  much  rivalry  and  variety  will  be  lost  in  the 
struggle  to  keep  institutions  alive  in  a  time  of  inade- 
quate financing?  A  "tide  of  growing  homogeneity," 
Warren  G.  Bennis,  the  president  of  the  University  of 
Cincinnati,  calls  what  is  happening  to  much  of  Ameri- 
can higher  education — "with  the  inevitable  result  that 
each  university  and  college  [begins]  to  resemble  all  the 
others,  becoming  a  franchise  service,  a  sort  of  chain  of 
Holiday  Inns  of  the  Mind." 

Writes  Fred  Hechinger,  in  the  New  York  Times: 

"Will  the  universities,  like  the  railroads,  pursue  a 
defeatist,  obsolescence  course  until  the  government  at 
last  tries  to  bail  them  out?  The  risk  that  they  may  opt 
for  a  passive  response  to  their  current  crisis  of  identity, 
money,  and  goals  is  heightened  by  the  fact  that  the 
universities  have  become  accustomed  to  having  their 
goals  spelled  out  for  them  by  the  off-campus  world — 
such  are  the  demands  of  defense  and  other  external 
mandates." 

Does  the  ad  need  a  further  addendum? 

"Should  disregard  the  thinking  of  predecessors,"  it 
might  say.  "Must  look  within  for  answers." 

the  president  of  Reed  College,  Paul  E.  Bragdon, 
suggests  a  middle  course: 

"Viewing  society  and  higher  education  within  it,  no 
one  today  seems  likely  to  adopt  the  Panglossian  stance 
that  all  is,  or  soon  will  be,  for  the  best  in  this  best  of 
all  possible  worlds.  No  ideology,  doctrine,  or  faith  in  a 
pragmatic,  problem-solving  approach  is  likely  to  create 
a  sense  of  confidence  in  the  future.  Growing  anxiety, 
numbing  uncertainty,  and  a  paralysis  of  the  will  are 
likely  companions  in  an  age  of  complexity,  contradic- 
tions, and  confusion. 

"Maybe,  however,  a  variation  of  the  classic  response 
to  Panglossism — cultivate  your  own  garden — is  the 
most  constructive  course  to  follow.  Callously  turning 
aside  from  the  torment  and  problems  of  men  and 
Women  everywhere,  abdicating  responsibilities  thrust 
upon  us,  subsiding  into  hedonism  or  into  activities 
designed  exclusively  for  personal  self-fulfillment — none 
would  form  part  of  the  suggested  variation. 

"The  appropriate  variation  asks  that  we  recognize 
that  there  are  many  things  within  our  control  which  can 
be  done;  that  general  despair  should  not  keep  us  from 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 13 


doing  them;  and  that,  in  fact,  we  should  proceed  to  do 
them.  The  doing  of  them  may  give  us  the  faith  and 
foundation  of  confidence  to  attack  the  additional  prob- 
lems to  which  there  are  no  instant  or  easy  solutions." 

the  college  president  must  run  his  or  her  enterprise 
without  the  tools  of  the  conventional  corporate  head. 
The  college  president  cannot  stockpile  products  until  a 
more  favorable  economic  climate  comes.  The  college 
president  cannot  apply  for  tax  and  tariff  relief.  The 
college  president  cannot  decrease  profit  margins,  for 
there  is  no  profit.  Yet  the  college  president  cannot 
calmly  tolerate  loss,  though  loss  is  inevitable. 

Nor  can  the  college  president  lower  the  quality  and 
content  of  his  institution's  product;  to  do  so  would  be 
to  defeat  the  very  purpose  for  which  his  enterprise 
exists.  Mut  maintaining,  let  alone  improving  the  pro- 
duet's  qualit)  and  content  entails  financial  strains  so 
grave  as  to  threaten  every  college's  existence. 

I  he   paradoxes   are   serious.   Alumnae,   alumni,   and 


the  general  taxpayers — and  the  trustees  and  legislate) 
who  hold  their  proxies — demand  that  the  college  i 
university  president  improve  the  efficiency  of  his  mam 
facturing  process;  yet  the  savings  effected  by  increase 
efficiency  might  be  gained  only  at  the  expense  of  tl 
product's  value.  Says  Clifton  R.  Wharton,  Jr.,  the  pre 
ident  of  Michigan  State  University: 

"The   most   disturbing   element   in    the   latest   fiscl 
crisis  is  the  presumption  that  the  universities  can  coi 
tinue   to  realize  significant  savings  through  continue 
increases    in    productivity    and    efficiency,    without 
corresponding  reduction  in  quality  of  services.  .  .  . 

"The  search  for  ever-greater  increases  in  productivil 
can  best  be  put  into  proper  perspective  by  contrastir 
pictures  of  two  extremes.  Take  first  the  image  of 
teacher  on  one  end  of  a  log  with  a  student  on  the  otto 
end,  then  contrast  it  with  the  image  of  our  freshma 
class  of  7,000  sitting  in  our  football  stadium  while  or 
lonely  professor  stands  at  the  50-yard  line  in  front  of 
microphone.  The  former  represents  the  ancient  notio 


14  WPI  Journal 


teaching;    the    latter    would    be    a    demonstration 
extremely  high  productivity — assuming  that  it  were 
icient. 

"The  choice  between  these  two  educational  models, 
well  as  among  the  many  idealized  models,  depends 
•on  a  delicate  and  subjective  balancing  of  educational 
ilosophy  and  economic  efficiency.  I  often  wonder 
lether  as  a  matter  of  public  policy  the  ever-growing 
essure  for  greater  productivity  is  not  leading  us  to  the 
Dtball-stadium  classroom.  Is  this  what  the  students, 
jir  parents,  or  the  taxpaying  citizens  really  want? 
om  the  criticism  I  hear,  I  doubt  it." 
|  Inexorably,  the  president  finds  himself  in  the 
emma  Cincinnati's  Bennis  describes: 
"We  have  the  size  and  scope  of  big  business,  with 
v  if  any  of  its  opportunities  to  increase  our  productiv- 
People  would  like  us  to  run  like  the  Metropolitan 
:e  Insurance  Company.  In  fact,  a  university  is  more 
e  the  Metropolitan  Opera  Company.  .  .  . 
"In  1860,  at  the  forerunner  of  our  conservatory  of 
isic,  it  took  a  quintet  58  minutes  to  play  a  concerto 
Brahms;  in  1975  it  also  takes  58  minutes.  Nor  can 
improve  that  performance  by  using  one  violin 
tead  of  two,  or  a  moog  synthesizer  to  replace  all 

3." 

'But  even  unlike  the  venerable  and  equally  threatened 
i  era  company,  the  president  of  a  college  or  university 

inot  take  his  show  on  the  road  when  times  get 
hperate,  hoping  to  play  to  s.R.o.  in  Tokyo  to  relieve 

:  financial  strain  at  home.  "The  only  power  I  have," 

>s  Willard  L.  Boyd,  president  of  the  University  of 

va,  "is  the  power  to  persuade." 

fuiPPED,  then,  with  only  his  voice,  the  president 
f  ds  himself  at  the  helm  of  an  organization  offering 
If  th  a  product  and  a  service  for  which  the  demand 
I  leveling  off — even  as  the  costs  of  producing  and 
frforming  continue  to  rise.  The  price  of  the  fuel  to 
\  at  the  dormitories  and  classrooms  and  laboratories 
t  intuples.  The  annual  salary  increments  for  faculty 
*d  staff  members  drop  farther  and  farther  behind  the 
rvances  in  living  costs.  Projections  by  the  U.S.  Office 
[  Education  tell  him  that  full-time  enrollment,  which 
hreased  over  100  per  cent  from  1960  to  1970,  will 
Pe  only  17  per  cent  in  the  present  decade.  (It  will, 
l/s  the  government,  actually  decrease  1.3  per  cent  in 
| ;  first  two  years  of  the  next  decade. ) 
|  The  same  projections  tell  his  faculty  members  that, 
pile  the  number  of  doctorates  granted  by  America's 
htitutions  of  higher  education  tripled  in  the  1960-70 
I  cade,  the  employment  of  full-time  teachers  will  actu- 
Dy  decrease  .9  per  cent  from  1978  to  1982.  The 
htional  Science  Foundation  tells  the  researchers  em- 
hyed  by  colleges  and  universities  (who  account  for 
lout  61  per  cent  of  the  nation's  basic  scientific  work) 


that  real  spending  on  basic  research  is  expected  to 
decline  by  8  per  cent  from  last  year  to  this. 

Does  the  college  presidency,  then,  call  for  a  defeat- 
ist? Must  the  new  president  be  versed,  as  Kenneth  E. 
Boulding  suggests,  in  "the  management  of  decline"? 

"One  of  education's  first  priorities,"  says  Mr. 
Boulding,  who  is  program  director  at  the  University  of 
Colorado's  Institute  of  Behavioral  Sciences,  "[is  to] 
develop  a  new  generation  of  academic  administrators 
who  are  skilled  in  the  process  of  adjusting  to  decline." 

On  the  basis  of  all  that,  should  the  help-wanted  ad 
be  amended  again? 

"Must  be  able  to  deal  with  decline,"  perhaps  it 
should  say.  "Must  accept  diminished  circumstances." 

the  typical  captain  of  the  corporo-educational  enter- 
prise has  been  trained  as  an  academic,  not  as  a  pro- 
fessional manager;  as  a  pedagogue,  not  as  a  public- 


'People  would  like  us  to 
run  like  the  Metropolitan 
Life  Insurance  Company.  In 
fact,  a  university  is  more 
like  the  Metropolitan 
Opera  Company." 


relations  expert.  But  he  is  called  upon  to  be  the  latter, 
while  he  serves  the  former.  He  must  do  battle  against 
the  hesitancy  of  his  institution  to  view  itself  as  a  bus- 
iness, and  he  must  do  equal  battle  against  the  confusion 
of  his  own  roles. 

R.  Miller  Upton,  for  21  years  (until  last  summer) 
the  president  of  Beloit  College,  calls  the  failure  to 
make  a  clear  distinction  between  economic  and  aca- 
demic realities  the  major  weakness  of  leadership  in 
higher  education: 

"So  many  of  my  colleagues,  saying  they  know 
nothing  about  business,  will  delegate  the  business 
aspects  almost  totally  to  their  financial  vice-presidents. 
In  terms  of  good  management,  you  can  never  take  that 
position. 

"If  you  don't  have  a  sense  of  the  importance  of  the 
economic  base  to  the  academic  purpose,  the  institution 
is  going  to  suffer.  A  president  must  never  be  embar- 
rassed by  the  word  'selling,'  or  by  any  of  the  other 
sound  business  terms." 

If  the  college  or  university  is  serving  a  predominantly 
black  constituency,  suggests  James  E.  Cheek,  president 
of  Howard  University,  the  president  must  do  further 
battle.  The  enemy  in  this  case,  Mr.  Cheek  says,  is  the 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1975/15 


"Colleges  have  to  be  run 
in  a  businesslike  fashion, 
but  I'm  not  sure  you 
can  run  them  exactly 
like  businesses." 


temptation  to  sacrifice  identity  for  short-term  survival: 

"Leaders  of  black  colleges  and  universities  must 
show  a  greater  willingness  to  demonstrate  the  impor- 
tance of  their  institutions.  They  cannot  allow  them  to 
be  taken  for  granted,  nor  can  they  conform  to  the  easy 
perception  that  integration  will,  in  and  of  itself,  improve 
the  quality  of  higher  education  for  black  people  or 
increase  the  quantity  of  access  to  higher  education  for 
black  people.  They  must  hold  to  the  belief  that  an  insti- 
tution can  have  a  traditional  black  mission  and  a  pre- 
dominantly black  enrollment  and  still  be  integrated." 

Similar  challenges  confront  the  presidents  of  women's 
colleges.  They — with  their  trustees  and  institutions — 
must  choose  whether  to  embrace  the  rush  toward  coed- 
ucation, or  to  resist  it.  As  Jill  K.  Conway,  the  president 
of  Smith  College,  notes,  the  choice  is  riddled  with 
complexities: 

"Up  to  the  present,  .  .  .  attention  has  been  focused 
on  the  access  of  women  to  institutions  of  higher  educa- 
tion, with  little  or  no  thought  given  to  the  relationship 
of  women  students  to  the  curriculum,  women  scholars 
to  research  activity,  or  women  graduates  to  the  occu- 
pational structure  of  society.  When  access  is  considered 
in  isolation,  the  logic  of  coeducation  as  an  equitable 
social  policy  appears  to  be  overwhelming. 

"The  logic  for  educating  women  in  male-controlled 
institutions  is  by  no  means  so  strikingly  apparent,  how- 
ever, when  one  views  the  question  of  equity  of  treat- 
ment of  the  sexes  from  the  perspective  of  the  content 
of  the  curriculum,  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the 
creation  of  new  knowledge,  and  the  potential  for  subse- 
quent career  development. " 

i<>  GAIN  his  or  her  job.  a  prospective  college  president 
must  win  the  acceptance  o\'  competing  interest  groups, 
which  occasionally  are  ;is  concerned  with  establishing 
their  positions  vis-a-vis  one  another  as  with  ferreting 
out  the  best  candidate.  To  perform  successfully,  says 
Glenn  A.  Olds,  president  of  Kent  State  University,  the 
president  "has  to  be  academically  competent  so  that  he 
will  enjoy  the  support  of  the  faculty,  administratively 
competent  so  he  can  perform  feats  iA  fiscal  dexterity, 
able  to  deal  with  students,  of  impeccable  integrity,  and 
fearlessly  open  " 

Vet,  suggests  Ernest  L.  Boyer,  chancellor  of  the  State 


SvC 


University  of  New  York,  to  avoid  dismissal  the  pr 
dent  cannot  become  identified  with  any  of  the  gro 
he  represents.  "If  a  president  starts  giving  stuc 
answers,  faculty  answers,  or  trustee  answers,  he's  lo 
No  wonder,  then,  that  the  job  is  so  perilous  and 
list  of  casualties  ever-lengthening — or  that,  at  one  p( 
in  the  past  year,  at  least  78  four-year  institutions 
higher  learning  were  without  chief  executives.  C 
sider: 

►  At  the  University  of  Texas  at  Austin  and 
Southern  Methodist  University,  presidents  were  (]', 
missed  or  pressured  into  resigning  by  their  boards  ai^ 
becoming  identified  with  faculty  concerns. 

►  At  the  University  of  New  Hampshire,  Thomas  fi 
Bonner  resigned  as  president  after  prolonged  warf;a 
with  the  state's  political  leadership  and  incessant  evt 
torial  salvos  from  William  Loeb's  Manchester  Urn  ^ 
Leader. 

►  The  University  of  Colorado  dismissed  its  p 
dent  after  the  faculty  voted  no  confidence  in  him. 

►  At  Missouri's  Stephens  College,  students  and 
ulty  members — disturbed  that  a  woman  had  not 
picked  to  head  the  female  institution — asked  the  n] 
whom  the  board  had  selected  to  reconsider  his  acq 
tance  of  the  presidency. 

The  college  president,   in  short,  must  balance 
ideal  and  the  real — and  he  cannot,  as  Jacques  Bar 
noted  in  The  American  University,  "forget  the  difl 
ence  between  the  golden  and  the  leaden  functions  h™ 
supposed  to  perform." 

NOR  CAN  THE   PRESIDENT  FORGET  that  his  products  i  \ 

not  cars  or  switch-dimmers  or  sky  hooks,  but  peop 
If  the  company  fails  to  tool  them  properly,  the  lossi 
will  be  very  human  ones. 

At  this  point  more  than  at  any  other,  the  corpora 
analogy  falters.  The  products  are  men  and  women,  at 
the  process  is  the  often-meandering  one  of  discovei 
and  learning. 

"Colleges  have  to  be  run  in  a  businesslike  fashion, 
says  the  president  of  Bowdoin  College,  Roger  Howe 
Jr.,  "but  I'm  not  sure  you  can  run  them  exactly  Hi 
businesses.  The  absence  of  a  bureaucracy  would  h 
very  quickly  remarked  upon  by  the  faculty  if  the: 
checks  didn't  turn  up  on  payday;  but  a  lot  of  academ; 
cians  would  argue  that  efficiency,  while  a  good  thin; 
is  not  the  highest  of  all  possible  virtues. 

"In  the  educational  process  there  is  occasionally 
good  deal  to  be  gained  from  a  certain  amount  c 
inefficiency.  If  you  get  so  that  everything  is  in  exactl 
the  right  place,  it  eliminates  serendipity,  and  one  of  th 
exciting  and  useful  things  about  an  educational  proce: 
is  discovery.  You  want  to  be  careful  to  preserve  th 
capacity  for  this  in  the  midst  of  all  your  efficiency." 

The    University   of   Iowa's   Willard   Boyd   makes 


16  WP/ Journal 


er  distinction  between  academic  and  corporate 
\  :rship:    "The  college  president  must  keep  things 

d  up  so  that  the  intellectual  life  will  grow."  The 
iisity  of  ferment,  he  argues,  is  even  greater  during 
t  iresent  besieged  state  of  higher  education: 

liese  are  conditions  which  either  can  frighten  col- 

and  universities  into  blind  'intellectual  protec- 

3}sm'  of  the  past  and  present,  or  challenge  them  to 

future  'intellectual  risks.'  The  latter  is  the  more 

ult,  yet  more  creative,  course.  It  is  not  antithetical 

ie  intellectual  process.  Quite  the  contrary,  it  is  the 

ice  of  it." 

ie  advertisement  for  a  president,  then,  needs  this 

mation: 
Must  create  an  adventuresome  corporate  structure, 

rve  a  noncorporate  end." 


is  the  problem  facing  today's  college  or  university 
•^ident  boils  down  to  this:  how  to  apply  the  tech- 
igy  and  lessons  of  corporate  management  to  the 
J  human  process  of  education.  With  that  problem 
des  this  more  difficult  quandary:  how  to  measure 
dvorth  of  a  human  product, 
he  Rev.   J.   Donald  Monan,  president  of  Boston 


College,  would  begin  to  evaluate  the  success  of  an 
educational  enterprise  by  looking  at  the  alumnae  and 
alumni: 

"I  have  sometimes  said — and  I  believe  it — that  col- 
leges exist  for  alumni  and  not  for  students.  If  everyone 
fell  off  the  earth  after  commencement,  there  would  be 
a  genuine  worth  in  what  you're  doing;  but  in  the  long 
run — in  service  to  society — institutions  have  their  effect 
through  the  long-term  careers  of  their  alumni. 

"If  you  can  touch  their  whole  character  and  their 
professional  expertise,  you  are  doing  something  impor- 
tant for  society  through  alumni." 

Yet  there  is  no  easy  way  for  today's  college  or 
university  president,  grown  increasingly  remote  from 
the  ebb  and  flow  of  campus  life,  to  touch  a  student's 
character.  The  college  president  of  yore,  who  spent  his 
Saturdays  pacing  the  sidelines  and  his  Mondays  parsing 
Latin,  is  as  rare  as  the  college  of  yore.  Although  one 
notable  group  of  modern  presidents  has  gone  public — 
Duke's  Terry  Sanford  announces  for  the  White  House, 
the  University  of  Chicago's  Edward  H.  Levi  takes  over 
the  Justice  Department,  the  University  of  Alabama's 
David  Mathews  is  called  to  head  up  h.e.w. — many 
more  have  gone  private.  Faced  with  multitudinous  obli- 


W PI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 17 


gations  to  a  many-faceted  institution,  they  delegate 
authority  and  become  inundated  by  their  functionaries; 
or,  eschewing  extensive  delegation,  they  become  buried 
in  the  manifold  details  of  their  position.  Few  stand  up 
in  the  middle,  talking  in  public  about  the  problems, 
challenges,  and  duties  of  higher  education;  and  the  few 
who  do  are  too  often  quoted  to  engage  the  public's 
attention  for  long. 

A  recent  poll  by  Change  magazine  asked  4,000 
college  presidents,  government  officials,  foundation 
executives,  and  journalists  to  pick  the  leaders  of  higher 
education.  Among  the  top  44  were  only  seven  presi- 
dents. 

Yet  even  if  the  president  does  come  home  from  his 
travels,  even  if  he  does  emerge  from  his  office,  even 
should  he  choose  to  speak  out,  is  it  possible  for  him  to 
touch  the  character  of  such  a  complex  structure  as  a 
college  or  university? 

If  the  president  can  bear  the  burden,  he  might  reach 
some  students  in  the  classroom,  others  at  dinner  and 
sports.  He  can  have  students  living  in  his  home.  He 
can,  as  does  Iowa's  Boyd,  advise  a  handful  of  students. 


He  can  put  his  office  in  the  middle  of  the  quad  an 
open  the  door  to  all  who  drop  by.  But  can  he  identif 
their  character?  And,  even  if  he  accomplishes  that,  ca 
he  affect  it? 

Legal  sanctions  and  social  change  have  foreclosed  o 
the  day  when  colleges  could  act  in  loco  parentis,  wit 
the  president  as  reigning  patriarch  or  matriarch. 

Says  Bowdoin's  Howell: 

"Our  kids  are  all  legally  adults;  it's  incumbent  o, 
us  to  treat  them  as  adults  in  all  kinds  of  ways  beside 
just  legally  admitting  that  it  is  the  case.  The  institutioi 
cannot  have  a  simple  set  of  values  which  it  says  is  th 
only  moral  code  to  live  by." 

But,  he  adds:  "I  don't  believe  that  this  cuts  down  01 
the  sense  of  being  concerned  about  values,  particularly 
in  a  liberal-arts  institution." 

Says  Boston  College's  Father  Monan: 

"At  least  for  many  institutions,  concern  with  value: 
is  something  very  new.  In  the  '50's  you  had  some  ven 
prestigious  presidents  saying  that  the  whole  valui 
dimension  was  to  be  left  to  other  agencies  and  th( 
school  was  to  be  concerned  with  truth. 


18 1  December  1975 1  WPI  Journal 


"I  don't  think  you  have  to  make  facile  distinctions 
ike  that.  For  everyone  there  is  a  recognition  today  that 
here  is  a  clearer  obligation.  However,  to  communicate 
/alues  is  not  like  communicating  calculus." 

Some  beginnings,  suggests  Father  Monan,  lie  at  the 
/ery  core  of  the  job.  The  president  must  show  the 
acuity  and  students  that  he  understands  the  value  of 
he  academic  life  and  that  he  wholeheartedly  supports 
t  in  all  its  manifestations.  He  must,  if  his  constituency 
s  to  take  him  seriously,  show  that  he  views  them  with 
•qual  earnestness. 

But  the  data  for  measuring  the  touching  of  character 
ire  squishy.  Frequency-of-repair  records  and  percen- 
ages  of  the  marketplace  tell  hard  facts  about  light 
witches  and  their  manufacturers,  but  no  charts  can 
neasure  the  relative  worth  of  a  technician  and  a  lawyer, 
.  contemplative  person  and  one  of  action.  Indeed  it 
qay  well  be — as  J.  Douglas  Brown,  the  emeritus  pro- 
ost  and  dean  of  the  faculty  at  Princeton  University, 
uggests — that  the  very  obscurity  of  the  data,  the  im- 
leasurability  of  the  product,  increases  the  president's 
entrality  within  a  college  or  university: 

"An  industrial  organization  may  seek  to  merge  the 
unctions  of  leadership  into  a  combination  of  senior 
pecialists  in  production,  finance,  and  public  relations 
—not  always  successfully.  A  church,  in  order  to  safe- 
uard  its  traditions,  may  place  leadership  in  a  collective 
ody.  But  the  university  not  only  deals  in  a  host  of 
itangibles  rather  than  profit,  but  also  must  move 
)rward  with  vigor  and  sensitivity.  Therefore,  only  a 
erson,  a  president,  can  effectively  combine  tradition 


"A  president  wants  to  be 
liked — by  alumni,  by 
faculty,  by  students  and 
trustees.  But  in  pursuing 
this,  he  may  end  up 
becoming  a  mediator." 


nd  \igor  to  gain  understanding  response  from  a  corn- 
lex  of  cooperating  constituencies." 

Yet.  however  central  to  the  institution  the  president 
ecomes,  he  must  lead  if  he  is  to  be  followed.  Says 
leloit's  Miller  Upton: 

president  must  be  willing  to  be  out  front,  in 
reas  where  he  knows  he's  going  to  get  shot  at.  This 
i  difficult.  There's  a  great  temptation  to  play  it  easy, 
v  president  wants  to  be  liked — by  alumni,  by  faculty, 
y  students  and  trustees.  But  in  pursuing  this,  he  may 
nd  up  becoming  a  mediator. 

"Leadership  in  education  is  difficult  because  of  the 


collegial  nature  of  the  community;  it's  tougher  than  in 
business,  where  lines  of  authority  are  so  tightly  drawn 
and  easily  availed  of.  But  it  is  possible  to  be  a  leader 
and  not  just  a  mediator." 

assume  for  the  moment  that  the  president  can 
hunker  down  to  the  job  at  hand;  that  he  can  lead;  that 
in  ways  mysterious  or  practical  he  can  see  to  the  touch- 
ing of  the  institution's  complex  character.  Can  he  then 
turn  successfully  to  the  very  corporate  business  of 
building  a  better  mousetrap — of  tooling  a  product  that 
society  wants,  a  product  society  needs? 

In  the  difference  between  wants  and  needs  lies 
another  dilemma — and  yet  another  distinction  between 
the  leadership  of  business  and  education.  To  create  a 
product  the  public  wants  is  a  relatively  easy  and  often 
lucrative  matter,  once  the  want  has  been  identified  and 
the  technology  refined.  To  create  a  product  to  fill  a 
projected  and  abstract  need,  the  want  of  which  might 
never  be  articulated,  would  be  business  folly,  yet  how 
much  such  an  approach  makes  education  sense — how 
much  it  is  higher  education's  duty — may  well  be  a 
measure  of  the  limits  of  the  corporate  approach  to 
education.  If,  as  many  who  practice  the  art  believe,  a 
president's  primary  responsibility  is  to  plan  for  the 
future,  then  it  may  be  his  equal  or  greater  obligation 
not  to  settle  for  survival  in  a  mean  world,  but  to  strive 
for  utility  in  a  grander  one. 

many  observers  of  the  present  educational  scene,  like 
Dcedalus  editor  Stephen  R.  Graubard,  see  presidents 
and  their  institutions  enmeshed  in  a  survival  strategy: 

"Today,  when  higher  education  has  receded  from  the 
front  pages  of  all  newspapers,  when  television  has  few 
student  demonstrations  to  film  and  no  non-negotiable 
demands  to  report,  when  the  federal  government  seems 
generally  bereft  of  ideas  on  higher  education,  and  when 
state  legislatures  wrangle  usually  over  the  size  of  budg- 
ets and  university  presidents  dash  about  searching  for 
new  monies  to  offset  inflationary  costs  for  which 
increased  student  tuition  and  fees  are  quite  insufficient, 
there  is  an  almost  instinctive  concern  within  every  insti- 
tution to  look  out  for  itself,  to  create  those  conditions 
that  will  guarantee  its  own  'survival'  and  possibly 
increase  its  competitive  advantage.  There  is  not  much 
talk  of  reform:  the  problem  is  to  get  through  a  difficult 
time,  a  time  of  kno  growth'  and  of  persistently  rising 
costs.  Colleges  and  universities  seem  frightened  and 
confused." 

To  the  extent  that  survival  in  whatever  form  becomes 
the  goal,  the  criteria  of  survival  become  the  measure 
by  which  the  president  is  evaluated.  Again,  Stephen 
Graubard: 

"To  an  extent  that  was  not  true  previously,  presi- 
dents and  deans  are  judged  for  their  ability  to  manage 


WPI  Journal  I  December  W        19 


and  husband  funds.  Even  where  they  have  been  selected 
as  'crisis  managers,'  they  are  generally  prized  for  their 
efficiency  as  fiscal  agents." 

Tooling  a  product  to  meet  present  ends  and  future 
needs  poses  temptations  and  hard  choices — particu- 
larly in  periods  of  high  unemployment,  when  the 
demand  for  specific  occupational  training  increases. 
Boom  times  provide  the  means  for  intellectual  activity; 
hard  times  heighten  the  demand  for  vocational  skilling. 
Beloit's  Miller  Upton  and  others  suggest  that  the 
measure  of  an  institution's — and  its  leaders' — commit- 
ment to  liberal  education  might  well  be  the  tenacity 
with  which  it  clings  to  its  historic  educational  mission 
in  depressed  times. 

Says  Reed's  Paul  Bragdon: 

"Let  us  acknowledge  straight-away  that  there  is  a 
need  and  a  place  for  vocational  education,  and  that 
most  students  are  going  to  enter  the  work  force  upon 
completing  their  formal  training,  i.e.,  they're  going  to 
have  to  find  jobs.  We  should  not  fail,  however,  to  note 
a  number  of  ironies. 

"First  of  all,  most  institutions,  public  and  private, 
throughout  the  world  are  today  seeking  as  leaders 
broadly  educated  men  and  women  who  have  mastered 
the  methods  of  understanding  and  attacking  problems, 
not  the  narrowly  trained  specialist.  Secondly,  the  seem- 
ingly unyielding  problems  of  our  times  will  not  be 
solved  by  vocational  certificates  any  more  than  by  good 
intentions  alone,  but  will  require  the  attention  of  edu- 
cated and  trained  men  and  women  with  high  moral 
purpose.  Thirdly,  in  a  society  in  which  more  leisure 
time  is  likely  to  be  available,  we  have  to  ask  what  the 
results  will  be — enriched  lives  or  lives  marked  by 
boredom,  booze,  and  the  boob  tube? 

"The  welcome  addition  of  increased  opportunities 
for  vocational  education  should  not  obscure  the  signifi- 
cance of  a  liberal  education  in  the  lives  of  men  and 
women  and  for  the  fate  of  society." 

Says  Martin  Meyerson,  president  of  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania: 

"Those  of  us  in  colleges  and  universities  ought  to 
help  unite  the  profession  or  the  calling  with  liberal 
learning.  If  we  do  not,  we  shall  have  failed  the  rightful 
aspirations  of  many  of  the  young  who  seek  a  life  of 
service.  Moreover,  unless  we  imbue  vocation  with  a 
sense  of  liberal  learning,  we  shall  have  failed  to  im- 
prove life  as  well." 

But  to  unite  the  need  for  specific  skills  with  a  broad 
exposure  to  thought  and  culture  is  more  complex  than 
overseeing  the  merging  of  the  acetates  and  alloys  that 
produce  switch-dimmers.  Ironically,  the  direction  may 
be  easiest  for  presidents  whose  institutions  serve  the 
underprivileged,  if  only  because,  for  them,  need  super- 
sedes theory.  Says  Howard  University's  James  Cheek: 
I'.     BUM  blacks  have  the  greatest  trouble  finding  jobs, 


"Presidents  are 
generally  prized  for 
their  efficiency  as 
fiscal  agents." 


we  must  be  acutely  aware  of  where  shortages  are  an 
will  be  in  the  labor  market,  particularly  in  the  profe: 
sions;  and  we  must  tailor  our  programs  to  thos 
shortages." 

FOR    ALL     THE     LEADEN    REALITIES    of    the    president 

job,  the  golden  possibilities  beckon.  "I  think,"  mus< 
the  American  historian  Henry  Steele  Commager,  "' 
should  support,  or  if  necessary  create,  a  group  of  mi 
and  women  whose  business  is  to  think  far  ahead 
their  contemporaries,  whose  business  is  not  to  represei 
their  own  country,  their  own  class,  their  own  time] 
men  and  women  who  should  be  excused  from  many 
the  pressures  and  passions  of  their  own  day  and  pei 
mitted  to  imagine  a  different  kind  of  world,  to  anticf 
pate  problems  and  propose  solutions  to  them.   .  .  I 
Needless  to  say,  we  have  at  least  an  embryo,  just  sua 
a  class.  I  refer  to  the  university." 

But  the  leaden  realities  lie  in  wait.  Purely  contempla] 
tive  creatures  require  the  sort  of  foundation  suppof 
that  has  dried  up  in  the  present  financial  climate  an| 
may  not  readily  revive  again.  X-ray  technicians  are  a 
work;  English  doctors  of  philosophy  are  at  home,  typ 
ing  curricula  vitae. 

The  balance  of  the  tangibles  and  intangibles  i 
educational  planning  and  the  articulation  of  purpose 
are,  says  Harvard  University  president  Derek  L.  Bol 
critical  functions  for  presidents  and  their  deans: 

"As  spokesmen  for  their  institutions,  they  cannc 
expect  to  win  the  understanding  and  support  of  a  wide 
community  unless  they  can  explain  with  convictio 
what  their  colleges  are  supposed  to  accomplish.  I 
deciding  how  to  allocate  new  resources — or  indeed  ho1 
to  distribute  their  own  time  and  energy — they  ca 
hardly  establish  coherent  priorities  without  some  sens 
of  the  ultimate  purposes  which  they  hope  their  college 
will  achieve. 

"For  these  reasons,  presidents  and  deans  must  forrr 
ulate  their  own  sense  of  the  institution's  goals  even 
their  faculties  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  undertake  th 
task." 

It  has  been  a  neglected  function,  he  adds: 

"Our  colleges  seem  to  exist  without  making  much  e 
an  effort  to  define  their  aims.  In  the  thick  reports  o 
undergraduate  education  that  many  colleges  have  pre 
duccd  in  recent  years,  there  is  little  discussion  of  win 


20      ■> -comber  19/'     WP/ Journal 


is  that  a  liberal-arts  education  should  provide  for  the 
.udent." 

The  articulation  of  purposes,  however,  can  rarely 
s  accomplished  solely  in  the  light  of  today  or  tomor- 
)\v.  The  college  or  university  president  is  not  allowed 
>  forget  that  the  majority  shareholders  in  his  corpora- 
on  are  themselves  its  past  products,  with  an  attach- 
ment to  that  past. 

If  the  traditions  of  the  past  are  to  be  violated,  if  old 
/ays  are  to  be  altered  to  meet  a  new  world,  the  alumni 
nd  alumnae  want  an  explanation  from  the  president. 
:vnd  they  vote  their  approval  or  disapproval  in  a  most 
ngible  and  meaningful  way — with  dollars  and  cents 
lat  aggregate  into  the  annual-giving  totals  upon  which 
ie  daily  functioning  of  the  institution's  manufacturing 
rocess  so  heavily  depends. 


Perhaps,  then,  any  ad  for  a  college  president  should 
contain  a  warning: 

"Caution:  past  products  may  dictate  direction  of 
present  process." 

assume — again  for  the  moment — that  the  president 
can  divine  a  course  on  which  to  set  his  enterprise.  Can 
he  steer  it  to  his  objective,  through  the  welter  of 
organizational  detail? 

Here,  again,  lie  the  challenge  and  necessity  of  bal- 
ance. Says  Princeton's  ex-provost,  J.  Douglas  Brown: 

"Apart  from  the  central  role  of  leadership  in  terms 
of  the  goals,  values,  and  standards  of  his  institution, 
the  president  must  have  a  sense  of  organization  and  of 
the  administrative  arts  of  working  through  organization 
to  attain  institutional  goals.  It  is  this  aspect  of  his  role 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 21 


22  WPI Journal 


inch  makes  a  shift  from  professor  to  president  most 
licult  for  many. 

The  professor  can  express  ideas  and  purposes  with 
Imcy,  but  the  president  must  implement  them  through 
complex  processes  of  gaining  willing  and  effective 
ion  in  scores  of  areas  and  at  all  levels.  It  is  in  the 
anced  interplay  of  leadership  in  ideas  and  leadership 
an  operating,  dynamic  organization  that  the  quality 
a  president  is  tested.  Too  much  emphasis  on  either 
ect  at  the  expense  of  the  other  may  lead  to  high 
poses  without  accomplishment  or  a  well-run  educa- 
lal  factory." 

Vet  even  the  art  of  balancing  is  not  what  it  once  was. 

reconcile  research  facilities  and  faculty  development 

h  classroom  space  and  teaching  loads,  football  aspi- 

ons  with  faculty  salaries  called  for  a  fine  bit  of 

gling.  But  the  task  has  been  immensely  complicated 

new  legal  realities  in  the  academic  world. 

Consider  the  case  of  a  university  in  the  Southwest, 

ich,  as  of  July,  1975,  had  eighteen  lawsuits  pending 

liinst  it  or  its  officers  in  which  the  university  was 

I  used  of  violating  constitutional  or  civil  rights.  Sev- 

i  1  of  the  suits  claimed  that  the  university's  admissions 

)>cedures  were  arbitrary  and  capricious.  Others,  filed 

I  students  and  faculty  members,  charged  improper 

I I  unlawful  dismissals.  A  research  assistant  was  seek- 
i  $500,000  in  damages  for  the  university's  failure  to 
i»  ew  his  contract;  a  faculty  member  not  recommended 
:<  renewal  was  seeking  a  million.  Several  women  pro- 
»;ors  charged  they  had  been  discriminated  against 
*  ause  of  sex;  a  male  nurse  contended  that  he  would 
I  have  been  dismissed  from  his  position  with  the 
iversity  had  he  been  female.  A  plaintiff  had  sued 
>  ause,  she  said,  the  university  had  failed  to  provide 
I  with  an  abortion.  Two  Mexican-Americans,  former 
\  ployees,  alleged  a  broad  discriminatory  policy  on 
J  part  of  the  university. 

finally,  the  president  of  the  university  was  being 

i)  d  for  $5-million  by  a  former  professor  in  the  med- 

il   school,   who   contended   that   the   president  had 

\  gaily  requested  both  the  doctor's  resignation  and  the 

■  titution  of  funds  allegedly  received  from  the  univer- 

I  i  by  the  doctor  without  authorization. 

(Legal   routes   are,   of  course,   mutually   available. 

hen  Frank   I.   Keegan  was  ousted  as  president  of 

I  em    State   College    in    Massachusetts,    following   a 

confidence  vote  by  his  faculty  and  administration, 

I  filed  suit  against  the  trustees,   seeking  $200,000 

mages  and  reinstatement  as  president.) 

The   proliferation   of   suits   against   the  institutions 

jses  still  another  grim  specter  for  the  president.  Insur- 

ce  companies  are  increasingly  reluctant  to  provide 

bility  coverage  in  the  civil-rights  area;  and  without 

it  sort  of  basic  protection — seemingly  so  far  removed 

»m  the  world  of  academe — the   academic  support 


systems  cannot  begin  to  function.  What  kind  of  legerde- 
main is  needed  to  balance  such  a  complex? 

And,  of  course,  where  will  the  presidents  and  their 
institutions  find  the  money  to  finance  the  support  sys- 
tems they  devise,  however  perfectly?  Indeed,  more  and 
more  where  will  they  find  the  funds  to  underwrite  those 
systems  that  already  exist?  How  to  look  to  the  future 
while  keeping  the  present  afloat?  How  much  to  scuttle 
so  that  the  enterprise  can  get  where  it  is  going?  And 
what  kind  of  college  or  university  will  arrive  at  its 
destination? 

How  even  to  find  the  money  to  meet  the  rapidly 
rising  costs  of  complying  with  federal  social  programs 


"The  student  unrest  of 
the  60's  taught 
presidents  that  we  could 
not  dictate  any  longer, 
that  we  had  to  share  power 
and  seek  counsel." 


— with  the  financial  demands  of  equal  employment 
opportunity,  of  equal  pay,  of  affirmative  action,  of 
non-discrimination  by  age,  of  occupation  safety  and 
health,  of  minimum-wage  and  fair-labor  standards,  of 
unemployment  insurance,  of  social  security,  of  health- 
maintenance  organizations,  of  pension-security-act  pro- 
visions, of  wage  and  salary  controls,  and  of  environ- 
mental protection?  At  one  large,  public  university  such 
costs  have  tripled  in  a  decade.  At  a  large,  private 
university  they  rose  from  $110,000  in  1964—65  to 
$3,600,000  last  year.  At  a  medium-sized  private  insti- 
tution, they  grew  150-fold  in  the  same  period — from 
$2,000  to  $300,000. 

Must  the  president  reach  out  blindly  for  funds — any 
funds?  Or  must  he  somehow  weigh  the  future  effects 
of  present  relief  from  financial  strain?  "Why  Richard," 
Sir  Thomas  More  was  made  to  say  in  A  Man  for  All 
Seasons,  "it  profits  a  man  nothing  to  sell  his  soul  for 
the  whole  world  .  .  .  but  for  Wales!"  How  can  a  college 
or  university  president  identify  what  and  where  the 
institution's  soul  is,  and  when  it  is  being  bartered? 

WHO    IS    A    MAN     (AND    WHO    IS    A    WOMAN)     for    this 

season? 

Boston  College's  Monan  suggests  that  Aristotle  might 
serve  well  as  a  college  president. 

"If  a  president  needs  one  thing,  I  think  he  needs 
judgment — practical  judgment  that  is  able  to  under- 
stand  the  complexities  of  problems  and  foresee  the 


WPt  Journal  /  December  1975 123 


"Whenever  I  watch  the 
university's  man  riding 
the  power  lawnmower, 
cutting  figure-eights,  in 
complete  control  of  his 
machine  and  total  arbiter 
of  which  swath  to  cut 
where  and  when,  I  envy  his 
superior  autonomy.  I  don't 
have  his  power." 


types  of  consequences  that  will  flow  from  the  alterna- 
tives that  are  open.  He  must  be  able  to  make  good 
decisions,  and  that's  what  Aristotle  stressed  in  his 
Ethics." 

Father  Monan,  however,  issues  one  caveat:  "Many 
philosophers'  theories  about  life  don't  always  coincide 
with  their  own  abilities  to  live  life  and  make  judgments 
themselves." 

Bowdoin's  Howell  nominates  Elizabeth  I:  "She's 
certainly  used  to  balancing  tight  resources  and  still 
keeping  things  going.  And  she's  a  marvelous  public 
speaker." 

Perhaps  our  help-wanted  advertisement  needs  further 
modification: 

"Must  be  resourceful  and  practical.  Should  have  a 
grasp  of  today  and  a  clear  vision  of  tomorrow." 

one  final  question  needs  to  be  asked.  It  may  negate 
the  need  to  answer  any  of  the  others. 

Does  the  modern  president  have  the  power  to  lead? 

A  veteran  watcher  of  the  office,  who  has  served 
under  five  presidents,  notes  that  in  the  modern  institu- 
tion "power  is  so  diffuse.  Everyone  has  negative  pow- 
ers, not  positive  ones.  They  can  veto,  but  they  can  not 
effect." 

Faced  with  government  regulations;  the  moral  and 
legal  pressures  of  organized  parents,  consumers,  and 
environmentalists;  the  scrutiny  of  alumni  and  trustees; 
and  the  often-competing  wants  of  some  500  on-campus 
governance  and  interest  groups,  Cincinnati's  Warren 
Bennis  expresses  a  longing  and  frustration  that  many 
presidents  share: 

"Whenever  I  watch  the  university's  man  riding  the 
power  lawnmower,  cutting  figure-eights,  in  complete 
control  of  Ins  machine  and  total  arbiter  of  which  swath 
to  ctll  where  and  when.  I  envy  his  superior  autonomy. 
I  don't  have  Ins  power." 

A  study  of  leadership  in  higher  education,  published 
in   1974  by  the  Carnegie  Commission,  concludes: 


"The  presidency  is  an  illusion.  Important  aspects  of 
the  role  seem  to  disappear  on  close  examination.  In 
particular,  decision-making  in  the  university  seems  to 
result  extensively  from  a  process  that  decouples  prob- 
lems and  choices  and  makes  the  president's  role  more 
commonly  sporadic  and  symbolic  than  significant.  Com- 
pared to  the  heroic  expectations  he  and  others  might 
have,  the  president  has  modest  control  over  the  event 
of  college  life." 

Should  he  find  himself  largely  symbolic,  more  the 
present  Queen  Elizabeth  than  an  Elizabeth  I,  the  new 
college  or  university  president  might  well  look  to  the; 
immediate  track  record  of  his  predecessors  to  discover 
where  (and  why)  his  power  has  gone.  Many  lost  their 
chambers — literally — as  the  '60's  wrenched  to  a  close 
and  student  occupiers  moved  in.  But  many,  too,  may! 
have  figuratively  abandoned  their  offices  in  the  crunch 
of  the  warfares  at  home  and  abroad. 

Many  presidents — sharing,  at  least  in  part,  the  politi- 
cally liberal  sentiments  if  not  the  radical  tactics  of  their 
rebellious  students — acted  reluctantly,  if  at  all,  to  curb 
campus  disorders.  Civil  persons,  they  confronted  incivil- 
ity; persons  prone  to  explore,  to  weigh,  to  seek  the 
middle  road,  they  found  many  of  their  students  holding 
rigidly  to  political  and  philosophical  stances;  peaceful 
persons,  they  were  expelled  by  force. 

Says  Father  Theodore  M.  Hesburgh,  president  of  the 
University  of  Notre  Dame: 

"The  public  at  large  had  been  told  that  the  univer- 
sity could  solve  all  the  nation's  and  the  world's  prob- 
lems. But  when  they  came  to  solving  their  own  new 
problem  of  student  unrest,  most  university  administra- 
tors appeared  helpless. 

".  .  .  University  presidents,  the  font  of  all  wisdom, 
were  treated  to  student  contempt,  insult,  intimidation. 
Their  offices  were  occupied  and  ruined;  their  authority, 
unexercised  or  disregarded.  Most  became  scapegoats 
for  the  total  failure  of  the  university  to  cope  with  dis- 
ruption. 

"The  exodus  of  distinguished  presidents  was  unprece- 
dented in  the  history  of  American  universities.  From 
Berkeley  to  Harvard,  from  Chicago  to  Stanford,  the 
presidential  offices  were  emptied,  and  all  efforts  were 
made  to  find  new  men  versed  in  crisis  management. 
Often  they  stayed  less  than  two  years,  as  at  Indiana, 
Columbia,  and  Stanford;  those  that  lasted  kept  a  low 
profile. 

"There  was  no  conventional  wisdom  for  the  tradi- 
tional presidents  to  fall  back  on.  One  week  one  presi- 
dent was  fired  for  calling  the  police  and  another  was 
fired  for  not  calling  the  police." 

However  dire  the  events,  says  Father  Hesburgh,  the 
aftermath  was  more  profound: 

"The  worst  results  of  the  happenings  of  the  '60's 
were   the  crisis  of  confidence  and  loss  of  nerve  they 


M  WPI  Journal 


duced  in  the  universities,  coupled  with  a  growing 

Iain  and  even  contempt  for  universities  on  .the  part 

those  who  had  loved  them  most:   parents,  alumni, 

efactors,  legislators,  students,  too." 

-low  much  of  the  presidents'  loss  of  power  is  a 

ction  of  their  unwillingness  to  exercise  it?  Has  the 

iciary,  by  bringing  the  arbitration  of  social  conflict 

3  its  grinding  processes,  dulled  the  fangs  of  the  presi- 

icy?  Or  was  the  power  already  lost  before  it  was  so 

ently  tested? 

Was  the  leadership  vacuum  of  the  late  '60's  only  a 

imatic  expression  of  a  fait  accompli? 

For  that  matter,  is  reduced  presidential  power  neces- 

ily  bad  for  the  institution? 

James  Cheek,  who  freely  owns  that  he  has  less  power 

w  as  head  of  Howard  University  than  he  did  a  dec- 

i  ago  when  he  was  president  of  Shaw  University, 

ss  not  rue  the  loss: 

"The  student  unrest  of  the  '60's  taught  presidents 

it  we  could  not  dictate  any  longer,  that  we  had  to 

are  power  and  seek  counsel.  Unlike  the  corporate 

ad,  the  college  president  must  be  willing  to  exist  as 

irst  among  equals.  In  the  narrow  sense  of  executing 


my  own  duties  and  responsibilities,  this  sharing  has 
made  the  job  more  difficult;  but  in  the  broadest  sense, 
it  has  been  good  for  the  presidency  and  for  the  educa- 
tional community." 

Barnaby  C.  Keeney,  president  of  the  Claremont 
Graduate  School  and  for  1 1  years  president  of  Brown 
University,  suggests  that  the  final  years  of  the  last 
decade  brought  to  the  fore  a  continuing  presidential 
and  institutional  deception  that  undermined  and  finally 
destroyed  the  public  confidence  necessary  to  the  suc- 
cesful  exercise  of  such  delicate  power. 

"We  have  a  long  tradition  and  a  well-established 
practice  in  American  higher  education  of  saying  one 
thing  and  doing  another.  This  practice  was  particularly 
virulent  in  the  1960's  for  a  number  of  reasons,  and  it 
contributed  to  the  loss  of  credibility  of  college  and 
university  presidents  and  their  institutions. 

"We  stated  our  lofty  aims  and  described  our 
virtuous  practices,  and  then  sometimes  acted  sor- 
didly. The  most  obvious  example  of  such  action  is 
in  the  usual  description  of  the  purity  of  amateur 
athletics,  of  which  the  practices  of  recruiting  with 
little  restraint  and  unscrupulously  giving  scholarships 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 25 


to  athletes  who  cannot  graduate  are  part.  We  inherited 
and  made  strict  rules  for  student  conduct  and  enforced 
them  unevenly,  more  so  than  was  made  necessary 
by  the  need  for  flexibility.  We  described  our  institutions 
as  open  to  all  qualified  students,  and  then  made  only 


sons  primarily  skilled — in  the  words  of  Clark  Kerr 
chairman  of  the  Carnegie  Council  on  Policy  Studies  ii 
Higher  Education  and  former  president  of  the  Uni 
versity  of  California — in  "the  ability  to  cut  and  trim'" 
Can  a  president  skilled  to  cut  and  trim  also  lead?  O 


token  attempts  to  recruit  from  outside  the  middle  class." 
Should  the  advertisement  contain  a  final  qualifica- 
tion:   "Must  say  what  is  meant,   and   mean  what  is 
said'"? 

will  the  new  president  be  the  image  of  the  giants 
of  the  academic  past,  charismatic  men  and  women 
whose  presence  resounded  through  the  entire  educa- 
tion community? 

"They  had  scholarly  tastes,"  writes  Harold  W. 
Dodds,  for  24  years  president  of  Princeton  University. 
"Each  came  to  the  office  possessing  an  academic  back- 
ground. Each  was  ...  of  broad  interests;  several  were 
leaders  in  the  political  and  diplomatic,  as  well  as  the 
educational,  life  of  the  country.  Although  none  was 
able  to  ignore  the  undergirding  functions,  including 
fund  raising,  without  exception  they  gave  educational 
philosophy,  policy,  and  program  top  priority." 

But  could  they  live  with  the  discord  that  is  a 
pervasive  and  perhaps  vital  part  of  modern  campus 
life? 

Could  they,  indeed,  have  achieved  greatness  in  the 
present  constrained,  regulated  academic  world? 

Will  the  president  become,  as  the  former  president 
of  Cornell  University,  James  A.  Perkins,  predicts,  "an 

elected  official,  nominated  by  the  university  senate 
and  approved  by  the  board,  for  a  limited  term  .  .  .  the 
consensus-maker,  the  broker  between  constituencies. 
the  link--  but  not  the  only  link  between  the  board 
and  the  senate"-? 

Will  higher  education's  leaders  of  the  future  be  per- 


will  the  leadership  be  not  outward  but  inward,  a 
withdrawal  toward  a  stable  center? 

Must  tomorrow's  college  and  university  presidents, 
then,  be  mediators,  low-profile  crisis  managers  trained 
in  the  arts  of  conciliation?  Apostles  of  efficiency?  Task- 
oriented — a  closed  circle  of  managers  revolving  from 
institution  to  institution  as  particular  needs  demand 
particular  talents? 

The  constituents — the  alumni  and  alumnae,  the  tax- 
payers, the  lawmakers — will  have  the  final  say. 

who  will  answer  the  ad? 


This  special  report 


is  the  product  of  a  cooperative  endeavor  in  which  scores  of  schools, 
colleges,  and  universities  are  taking  part.  It  was  prepared  under  the 
direction  of  the  persons  listed  below,  the  members  of  editorial  projects 
for  education,  inc.,  a  nonprofit  organization.  The  members,  it  should 
be  noted,  act  in  this  capacity  for  themselves  and  not  for  their  insti- 
tutions, and  not  all  of  them  necessarily  agree  with  all  the  points  in 
t  It  is.  report.  All  rights  reserved;  no  part  may  be  reproduced  without 
express  permission.  Printed  in  U.S.A.  Members:  ci  no  a.  baiiotti, 
American  Academy  of  Arts  and  Sciences;  denton  beal.  University  of 
Bridgeport;  roiuki  w.  hi  m  rs.  Stanford  University;  david  a.  burr.  Uni- 
versity of  Oklahoma;  marai  vn  O.  cm  i  I  SPI1  ,  Sw.u ilunorc  College;  CHARLB 
m  hi  i  mm  n.  (  ouncil  for  Advancement  and  Support  of  Education;  john  i. 
mm  mm,  Massachusetts  Institute  Of  technology;  kin  mii/iir.  University 
of  Oregon;  ROBERI  M,  RHODES,  Brown  University;  virni  k.  siadimaN, 
(  arnegie  Council  on  Policy  Studies  in  Higher  Education;  prederii  \. 
stott,  Phillips  Academy  (Andover);  irank  j.  iam,  the  Ohio  state  Uni- 
versity;  DOROTHi  i  WILLIAMS,  Simmons  College;  ronaid  a.  woi.k,  Brown 
University;  ELIZABETH  bond  wood.  Sweet  Briar  College.  Editors:  corbiN 
OWALTNEY,   HOWARD   MEANS,    Illustrations  b)   CAMERON    OERLACH. 


[hank  You! 


eport  of  the  1974-75 
/PI  Annual  Alumni  Fund 


Dear  WPl  Graduates: 


One  of  the  great  challenges 
and  a  source  of  satisfaction  for 
a  college  president  is  to  meet 
and  work  with  diverse  groups 
^  on  behalf  of  his  institution. 

Diverse  as  these  groups 
?  in  background,  attitude,  and  age,  they 
mlly  have  one  thing  in  common  —  enthu- 
■sm  for  their  AJma  Mater.  None  does  better 
this  regard  than  the  alumni  of  WPI  who 
nerousiy  support  us  in  many  ways. 

[n  these  chaiienging  economic  times 
?  Annual  Aiumni  Fund  is  of  critical 
oortance.  The  leverage  it  gives  us  in 
cnmpiishing  our  objectives  is  enormous. 
ps  past  fiscal  year  exemplified  the  positive 
\ults:  the  $215,000  Annua]  A]umni  Fund 
is  a  significant  factor  in  our  total  oper- 
ng  budget,  if  was  made  possibie  by  many 
::rificial  gifts  from  aJumni  throughout  the 
untry  and  world.  To  each  and  every  one  of 
u  J  extend  the  heartfelt  thanks  of 
appreciative  institution  for  your  generous 
(i  most  meaningful  support. 

Specia]  thanks  go  to  the  classes  who  cele- 
ated  their  25th,  40th,  and  50th  reunions 
it  June.  Your  special  anniversary  gifts  to 


the  College  were  most  significant  and  heart- 
warming. The  classes  of  1925  and  1950  ap- 
plied their  gifts  to  a  neuroelectrophysiology 
and  a  life  science  iaboratory.  respectivety, 
as  part  of  the  renovation  of  Sah'sbury  Hah. 
The  class  of  1935  endowed  scholarships  in 
their  name.  These  gifts  help  us  to  continue 
our  provision  of  outstanding  engineering  and 
science  education. 

Many  individual  alumni  worked  to  make 
the  Annua]  Fund  a  success  in  1974-75.  Par- 
ticular thanks  go  to  Fund  Board  Chairman 
Waiter  J.  Charow  '49  and  his  fellow  Fund 
Board  Members  Leonard  H.  White  '41,  G. 
Albert  Anderson  '51,  Howard  I.  Nelson  '54, 
Peter  H.  Horstmann  '55,  and  Daniel  J. 
Maguire  '66.  Their  ieadership  has  been  con- 
spicuously successful.  We  give  them  our 
thanks  for  their  long  hours,  hard  work,  and 
success. 


The  Giving  Clubs 


With  sincere  appreciation  to  the  following  alumni  for  their  leadership  support: 


PRESIDENTS  ADVISORY  COUNCIL 


For  thoughtful  and  generous  contributors  of 
$1,000  or  more 

*L.  Norman  Reeve,  '06,  James  J.  Shea,  '12,  James 
L.  Atsatt,  '14,  Edward  C.  Bartlett,  '14,  Earl  C. 
Hughes,  '14,  Raymond  P.  Lansing,  '15,  Alfred  W. 
Francis,  '17,  Norman  P.  Knowlton,  '18,  *Benjamin 
Luther,  '18,  John  W.  Coghlin,  '19,  George  R.  Rich, 
'19.  *Malcolm  B.  Arthur,  '20,  Frederic  R.  Butler, 
'20.  Paul  S.  Sessions,  '21,  *  Warren  A.  Ellsworth, 
'22.  Wayne  E.  Keith,  '22,  *Richard  Walberg,  '23, 
L.  Ivan  Underwood,  '25,  Sigurd  R.  Wendin,  '25, 
Milton  E.  Berglund.  '26,  Frederick  A.  Farrar,  '31, 
Eben  H.  Rice,  '31,  Henry  B.  Pratt,  '32,  Edward  J. 


Abendschein,  '35,  *Raymond  0.  Granger,  '35, 
*William  R.  Steur,  '35,  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37,  J. 
Morrison  Smith,  '37,  Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38, 
Thomas  B.  Graham,  '38,  Raymond  B.  Shlora,  '40, 
*Leonard  H.  White,  '41,  *Robert  H.  Grant,  '42, 
Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44,  Franklyn  Williams, 
'44,  James  J.  Clerkin,  '45,  Anson  C.  Fyler,  '45, 
Cushing  C.  Bozenhard,  '46,  George  Button  II,  '46, 
George  E.  Comstock  III,  '46,  John  E.  Hossack,  '46, 
Julius  A.  Palley,  '46,  Edward  A.  Pendleton,  '46, 
John  H.  Williams,  '49,  Robert  F.  Stewart,  '50, 
Robert  C.  Wolff,  '51,  Michael  M.  Galbraith,  '58, 
Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68 
*Life  Members 


DEANS  CLUB 

For  gifts  ranging  between  $600  and  $999 

Edmund  K.  Brown,  '13,  Dr.  Howard  S.  Nutting.  '23. 

Donald  F.  Sears.  '26,  Clifford  I.  Fahlstrom.  '27. 

Albert  N.  Narter,  '30.  Russell  W.  Parks,  '41, 

Dr.  Edward  H.  Peterson,  '43,  Reynald  J.  Sansoucy, 

'55 

JOHN  BOYNTON  CLUB 

For  gifts  ranging  between  $300  and  $599 

Oliver  B.  I.H  obs.  '10,  Chester  M.  Inman.  '14,  Henry 
W.  Sheldriek.  '17.  Thomas  B.  Rutherford,  '19,  John 
Q.  Holmes,  '20,  Robert  A.  Peterson.  '20.  Weston 
Hadden,  '22.  Frank  R.  Mason.  '22.  C.  Freeman 
Hawley,  '23,  Joseph  I'.  Mason.  '23.  Frederick  II. 
Si  heer,  '23,  Daniel  L.  Hussev.  '25.  Luther  B. 
Martin.  '25.  ken/.o  Matsuo.  '25.  Henrv  L.  Mellen, 
'25.  Harold  A.  Baines,  '21).  Eugene  M  Hunter.  '26. 

Chandler  w.  [ones,  '21..  Ann. aid  1,  Paquette,  '26. 

William  A    Ru88ell,    2U.  Charles  J.  Thompson.  '26. 
Charles  S.  Moon-.  '27.  William  M.  Raulia.  '27. 

Russell  C.  Wiley,  '29,  Carl  W.  Ho.  kstrom,  '30.  E. 
Waldemar  Carlson,  '30,  Francis  E.  Kennedy,  '30, 
Daniel  I-   O'Grady,  '  10,  Edward  I.  Bayon,  '31, 

Russell  v.  Corsini,  '31.  Nicholas  S.  Sculos,  '31, 


Herbert  A.  Stewart,  '31,  Dana  B.  Carleton,  '32, 
Dr.  William  E.  Hanson,  '32,  Waldo  E.  Bass,  '33, 
Robert  E.  Ferguson,  '33.  Warren  C.  Saltmarsh,  '3 
Dwight  J.  Dwinell.  '34,  Walter  M.  Kurtz,  '34, 
Everett  F.  Sellew,  '34,  Paul  J.  Sullivan,  '34,  C. 
Marshall  Dann,  '35,  Phillip  S.  Dean,  '35,  Joseph 
Glasser,  '35,  Leonard  G.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  '35, 
Charles  C.  Puffer,  '35,  Raymond  J.  Quenneville.  '! 
John  R.  Brand,  '36,  L.  Brewster  Howard.  '36, 
Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jr..  '36.  Gordon  F.  Crowther,  '3? 
Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr..  '38,  Robert  M.  Taft,  '38, 
Walter  L.  Abel,  '39,  Wilder  R.  Carson,  '39,  Georj 

E.  Feiker,  Jr..  '39.  S.  Merrill  Skeist.  '40,  Alexand* 
S.  Chodakowski,  '41,  James  E.  McGinnis,  '41, 
Robert  A.  Muir.  '41,  Delbert  A.  Betterley,  '42, 
Herbert  M.  Goodman,  '42,  Samuel  W. 
Williams,  Jr.,  '42,  Norman  A.  Wilson,  '42,  S.  Bail 
Norton,  '43,  Herbert  Asher,  '44,  Nicholas  N. 
Economou,  '44,  Christopher  T.  Terpo,  '44,  Paul  M 
Craig,  Jr..  '45.  Robert  M.  Edgerly.  '45.  Paul  N. 
kokulis.  '45.  Donald  A.  Ferguson,  '46,  John  C. 
Met/.ger.  Jr.,  '46,  Charles  B.  Miczek,  '46,  Allan 
Glazer,  '47.  Samuel  Ringel,  '47,  Howard  J.  Dembe 
'48.  Niel  I.  Fishman.  '48.  Albert  S.  Goldberg,  '48, 
Robert  W.  Henderson,  '48,  Allen  M.  Mint/..  '48, 
Clark  L.  Poland.  '48.  Walter  J.  Charow.  '49.  Hani 
B.  Levenson,  '49,  Donald  Taylor.  '49.  Raymond  L. 
Alvey.  Jr.,  '50,  Robert  N.  Cochran.  '51.  Lawrence 

F.  s<  into.  '51.  Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr..  '53, 


ward  I.  Nelson,    54,  K.  Kingman  Webster,    54, 
er  H.  Horstmann,  '55,  Peter  S.  Morgan,  '55, 
rek  M.  A.  Shawaf,  '55,  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr., 
,  Hans  H.  Koehl,  '56,  Edward  W.  Eidt,  Jr.,  '57, 
drew  P.  Cueroni,  '59,  Lawrence  S.  Green,  '61, 
idley  E.  Hosmer,  '61,  Donald  J.  Schultz,  '61, 
eodore  P.  Zoli,  Jr.,  '63,  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 


NTURYCLUB 

p  gifts  ranging  between  $100  and  $299 

irk  Eldredge,  '06,  Percy  M,  Hall,  '07,  Donald  H. 
ice,  '07,  Leon  W.  Hitchcock,  '08,  Donald  D. 
nonds,  '08,  Richmond  W.  Smith,  '08,  George  A. 
rratt,  '09,  Charles  F.  Goldthwait,  '09,  Edward  A. 
nff,  '10,  E.  Donald  Beach,  '11,  Earl  W.  Gleason, 
,  Frank  M.  McGowan,  '12,  Arthur  C.  Burleigh, 
,  Frederick  S.  Carpenter,  '13,  J.  Arthur 
mteroth,  '13,  Leon  H.  Rice,  '13,  Millard  C. 
encer,  '13,  Ellwood  N.  Hennessy,  '14,  George 
ss,  '14,  Frank  Forsberg,  '15,  John  W.  Gleason, 
,  Dr.  Charles  B.  Hurd,  '15,  Everett  Hutchins,  '15, 
uglas  F.  Miner,  '15,  Edward  R.  Nary,  '15,  Carl 
Burgess,  '16,  Leslie  J.  Chaffee,  '16,  Simon 
llier.  '16,  Roland  D.  Home,  '16,  Robert  E.  Lamb, 
i,  Joseph  E.  Murphy,  '16,  Dr.  Arthur  Nutt,  '16, 
iden  T.  Williams,  '16,  Aurelio  E.  Zambarano, 
i,  Clinton  S.  Darling,  '17,  Philip  0.  Pray  '17, 
rmon  F.  Safford,  '17,  John  R.  Wheeler,  '17, 
alter  B.  Dennen,  '18,  Arthur  M.  Millard,  '18, 
ger  B.  Chaffee,  '19,  George  W.  Roraback,  Jr., 
,  Robert  C.  Sessions,  '19,  Raymond  E.  Taylor, 
,  Chester  W.  Aldrich,  '20,  Arvid  E.  Anderson, 
,  Milton  W.  Garland,  '20,  Raymond  B.  Heath, 
,  Harold  G.  Hunt,  '20,  Burton  W.  Marsh,  '20, 
rlton  J.  O'Neil,  '20,  George  L.  White,  '20,  George 
Condit,  '21,  Irving  M.  Desper,  '21,  William  L. 
irtin,  '21,  Lyle  J.  Morse,  '21,  Edward  Rose,  '21, 
rl  E.  Skroder,  '21,  Irving  R.  Smith,  '21,  Foster  E. 
irtevant,  '21,  Charles  I.  Babcock,  '22,  Charles  N. 
irkson,  '22,  Wilfred  H.  Howe,  '22,  Lawrence  K. 
de,  '22,  Lloyd  F.  McGlincy,  '22,  Fred 
:kwick,  Jr.,  '22,  John  V.  Russell,  '22,  J.  Carleton 
ams,  '23,  Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  '23,  Carl  M.  Holden, 
,  Edward  B.  Johnson,  '23,  Lewis  J.  Lenny,  '23, 
lph  R.  Meigs,  '23,  Dr.  Paul  R.  Swan,  '23,  John  H. 
ui,  '23,  Edward  G.  Beardsley,  '24,  Clarence  W. 
:Elroy,  '24,  F.  Paul  Ronca,  '24,  Llewellyn  A. 
rgess,  '25,  Louis  Corash,  '25,  Arthur  V.  Houle, 
»,  James  C.  Irish,  '25,  Roland  dc.  Klebart,  '25, 
onard  F.  Sanborn,  '25,  Robert  B.  Scott,  '25, 
onard  C.  Calder,  '26,  Raymond  C.  Connolly,  '26, 
illip  R.  Delphos,  '26,  Donald  L.  Hager,  '26, 
arles  B.  Hardy,  '26,  Fred  H.  Hedin,  '26,  Stanley 
Johnson,  '26,  O.  Harold  Kallander,  '26,  Winthrop 
Marston,  '26,  Prof.  Kenneth  G.  Merriam,  '26, 
mry  G.  Mildrum,  '26,  John  S.  Miller,  '26,  Charles 
Moran,  '26,  John  A.  Morse,  '26,  Lawrence  S. 
terson,  '26,  Randall  P.  Saxton,  '26,  Theodore  D. 
hoonmaker,  '26,  Mabbott  B.  Steele,  '26,  Axel  H. 
endin,  '26,  Warren  T.  Wentworth,  '26,  Emerson 
Wiggin,  '26  Alfred  D.  Wilson,  '26,  Richard  E. 
ven,  '27,  Cecil  R.  Furminger,  '27,  George  J. 
ickman,  "27,  Victor  E.  Hill,  '27,  E.  Carl  Hoglund, 
|  Robert  E.  Johnson,  '27,  Walter  G.  Johnson,  '27, 
ward  J.  Kearnan,  '27,  Donald  L.  King,  '27,  Philip 
MacArdle,  '27,  Charles  MacLennan,  '27,  Dean 


L.  Merrill,   27,  Kevork  K.  Nanigyan,   27, 
Dr.  Donald  S.  Searle,  '27,  Nathan  M. 
Southwick,  Jr.,  '27,  Thomas  A.  Steward,  '27, 
Bernard  J.  Wahlin,  '27,  Russell  G.  Whittemore,  '27, 
Frederick  H.  Knight,  '28,  William  M.  Lester,  '28, 
Roland  C.  Mather,  '28,  Alexander  L.  Naylor,  '28, 
Donald  P.  Reed,  '28,  Gordon  E.  Rice,  '28,  Roger  K. 
Stoughton,  '28,  Nathaniel  Clapp,  '29,  J.  Kendall 
Fullerton,  '29,  Halbert  E.  Pierce,  Jr.,  '29,  C.  Eugene 
Center,  '30,  John  W.  Conley,  '30,  Charles  R.  Fay, 
'30,  Stanley  H.  Fillion,  '30,  Ralph  H.  Gilbert,  '30, 
Prof.  William  W.  Locke,  '30,  George  A.  Marston, 
'30,  Dean  M.  Lawrence  Price,  '30,  Dr.  Philip  M. 
Seal,  '30,  Donald  R.  Simonds,  '30,  John  H. 
Sylvester,  '30,  John  H.  Wells,  '30,  Henry  N.  Deane, 
'31,  Albert  M.  Demont,  '31,  Paul  H.  Fittz,  '31,  Jay 
M.  Harpell,  '31,  Trueman  L.  Sanderson,  '31, 
A.  Francis  Townsend,  '31,  Oliver  R.  Underhill,  Jr., 
'31,  Robert  S.  Williamson,  '31,  Emanuel  S. 
Athanas,  '32,  Ernest  W.  Foster,  '32,  Elliott  D. 
Jones,  '32,  C.  Stanley  Knight,  '32,  Linn  M. 
Lockwood,  '32,  Donald  J.  McGee,  '32,  Paul  E. 
Nelson,  '32,  Donald  W.  Putnam,  '32,  Edward  K. 
Allen,  Jr.,  '33,  Allen  L.  Brownlee,  '33,  Harry  T. 
Jensen,  '33,  Carroll  M.  Johnson,  '33,  Richard  T. 
Merrell,  '33,  Sumner  A.  Norton,  '33,  Alfred  G. 
Parker,  '33,  Carl  G.  Silverberg,  '33,  Sumner  B. 
Sweetser,  '33,  Jeremiah  H.  Vail,  '33,  Gordon  R. 
Whittum,  '33,  Charles  Wolk,  '33,  Bertil  H. 
Anderson,  '34,  Howard  W.  Atkins,  '34,  Ernest  M. 
Crowell,  '34,  Chester  G.  Dahlstrom,  '34,  Warren  H. 
Davenport,  '34,  Charles  S.  Dayton,  Jr.,  '34, 
G.  Donald  Greenwood,  '34,  Clayton  E.  Hunt,  Jr., 
'34,  Luther  C.  Leavitt,  '34,  Charles  W.  McElroy, 
'34,  Albert  T.  Phelps,  '34,  V.  Thomas 
Ratkiewich,  Jr.,  '34,  Philip  W.  Stafford,  '34, 
Howard  E.  Stockwell,  '34,  Gordon  P.  Whitcomb, 
'34,  Joseph  P.  Buckley,  '35,  B.  Austin  Coates,  '35, 
Theron  M.  Cole,  '35,  William  A.  Dempsey,  '35, 
Preston  H.  Hadley,  Jr.,  '35,  Francis  L.  Harrington, 
'35,  Eugene  S.  Henning,  '35,  Joseph  A.  Johnson,  Jr., 
'35,  Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.,  '35,  Theodore  D. 
McKinley,  '35,  Thomas  F.  McNulty,  '35,  Richard  P. 
Merriam,  '35,  Homer  R.  Morrison,  '35,  Roland  L. 
Nims,  '35,  Verner  R.  Olson,  '35,  Andrew  W.  Palm, 
'35,  William  C.  Potter,  '35,  Emerson  J.  Robinson, 
'35,  Dr.  Paul  R.  Shepler,  '35,  Dr.  Irving  Skeist,  '35, 
M.  Kent  Smith,  '35,  Roy  0.  Swenson,  '35,  Gordon  S. 
Swift,  '35,  Robert  B.  Taylor,  '35,  Edward  W. 
Armstrong,  '36,  Leo  T.  Benoit,  '36,  Carl  F.  Benson, 
'36,  Carleton  W.  Borden,  '36,  Harold  S.  Burr,  '36, 
George  L.  Chase,  '36,  Earl  M.  Curtis,  '36,  Alfred  C. 
Ekberg,  '36,  C.  James  Ethier,  '36,  Robert 
Fowler,  Jr.,  '36,  J.  Edward  Guild,  '36,  Leonard  W. 
Johnson,  '36,  William  C.  Maine,  '36,  David  M. 
Morley,  '36,  John  J.  O'Donnell,  '36,  George  E. 
Rocheford,  '36,  Jacob  A.  Sacks,  '36,  Benjamin  H. 
Smith,  Jr.,  '36,  Abbott  D.  Wilcox,  '36,  George  P. 
Wood,  '36,  Philip  G.  Atwood,  '37,  Prof.  Ray  K. 
Linsley,  '37,  John  F.  McGinnis,  '37,  Chandler  P. 
Pierce,  '37,  William  Price,  '37,  Robert  B.  Abbe,  '38, 
Robert  P.  Day,  '38,  Allen  R.  Deschere,  '38,  Richard 
J.  Donovan,  '38,  Richard  M.  Elliott,  '38,  Edmund  M. 
Fenner,  '38,  Oscar  A.  Fick,  Jr.,  '38,  Neil  A. 
Fitzgerald,  '38,  Philip  K.  Hathaway,  '38, 
M.  Leonard  Kuniholm.  '38,  George  W.  McKenna, 
'38,  Francis  B.  Swenson,  '38,  Jack  F.  Boyd,  '39, 
Arthur  N.  Cooley,  '39,  Carl  K.  Hitchon,  '39,  Donald 
E.  Houser,  '39,  John  H.  Lancaster,  '39,  Carl  W. 
Lewin,  '39,  C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39,  Robert  W. 


Martin,  '39.  Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr.,  '39,  Albert  J. 
Raslavsky.  '39,  Edward  J.  Roszko,  '39,  Billie  A. 
Schmidt.  '39.  George  S.  Bingham,  '40,  Kenneth  R. 
Blaisdell,  '40,  Dr.  Ronald  S.  Brand,  '40,  William  S. 
Brooks,  '40,  Prof.  Malcolm  S.  Burton.  '40,  Joseph 
M.  Halloran.  Jr.,  '40,  Robert  E.  Higgs.  '40,  Fritz  E. 
Johanson,  '40.  Russell  A.  Lovell.  Jr..  '40.  Judson  D. 
Lowd,  '40,  Philip  E.  Meany.  '40.  John  H.  Peters,  III, 
'40.  Lawrence  R.  Sullivan,  '40,  David  B.  Zipser. 
'40.  Dr.  George  A.  Cowan.  '41,  James  J.  Hoar,  Jr., 
'41.  Charles  L.  Hoebel,  '41,  F.  Harold  Holland,  Jr., 
'41,  Dr.  Herman  Medwin,  '41.  Hilliard  W.  Paige, 
'41,  Donald  F.  Palmer.  Jr..  '41,  William  C. 
Richardson,  '41,  William  P.  Simmons,  '41,  Donald 
E.  Smith.  '41.  F.  William  Ziegler,  '41,  Paul  C. 
Disario,  Jr..  '42.  Haskell  Ginns,  '42,  Philip  J. 
Hastings,  '42.  Edward  H.  Jacobs,  '42,  Richard  H. 
Kimball.  Jr..  '42.  Frederic  C.  Merriam,  '42, 
Alexander  Mikulich,  '42,  Francis  J.  Oneglia,  '42, 
Robert  W.  Searles,  '42,  Victor  H.  Thulin,  '42, 
J.  Richard  Weiss,  Jr.,  '42,  J.  Perry  Fraser,  '43, 
Victor  E.  Kohman,  '43,  Alfred  Voedisch,  Jr.,  '43, 
Gordon  C.  Anderson,  '44,  C.  Edward  Bean,  '44, 
Norman  S.  Blodgett,  '44,  Richard  A.  Carson,  '44, 
David  M.  Field,  '44.  Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr.,  '44, 
Erling  Lagerholm,  '44,  Alfred  F.  Larkin,  Jr.,  '44, 
John  P.  Newton,  Jr.,  '44,  Paul  I.  Pressel,  '44, 
Richard  W.  Russell,  '44,  Charles  C.  Tanona,  '44, 
John  G.  Underhill,  '44,  Kimball  R.  Woodbury,  '44, 
Edwin  G.  Baldwin,  '45,  Dr.  Joseph  D.  Carrabino, 
'45.  Robert  G.  Chaplick,  '45,  Howard  D.  Gerring, 
'45.  Irving  Goldstein.  '45,  Philip  A.  Henning,  '45, 
Charles  A.  Morse,  Jr.,  '45,  Robert  E.  Scott,  '45, 
Robert  C.  Appenzeller,  '46.  Melvin  H.  Bredahl,  '46, 
James  Bush,  Jr.,  '46,  Walter  J.  Grimala,  '46,  Robert 
S.  Jacobson,  '46,  August  C.  Kellermann,  '46, 
Richard  C.  Lawton,  '46,  Albert  E.  Rockwood,  Jr., 
'46,  Robert  W.  Schramm,  '46,  George  J.  Bernard, 
'47,  Henry  J.  Bove,  '47,  Daniel  W.  Knoll,  '47,  Daniel 
G.  Lewis,  Jr..  '47.  Kenneth  H.  Truesdell,  '47,  Robert 
H.  Adams.  '48,  Paul  E.  Evans,  '48,  Sameer  S. 
Hassan,  '48.  Paul  C.  Holden,  '48,  Richard  K. 
Home,  '48,  Francis  X.  Lambert,  '48,  James  G. 
McKernan,  '48,  Robert  E.  Nowell,  '48,  Daniel  H. 
Sheingold.  '48,  Prescott  A.  Stevens.  '48,  James  S. 
Adams.  '49,  Francis  J.  Bigda.  '49,  Fred  J.  Brennan, 
'49.  Richard  J.  Coughlin,  '49,  James  M.  Genser,  '49, 
Alfred  Hapgood,  Jr..  '49.  Robert  T.  Kesseli,  '49, 
Edward  R.  Knight,  '49.  Edward  A.  Luiz,  '49,  Sidney 
Madwed.  '49.  Gerald  F.  McCormick,  '49,  Daniel  L. 
McQuillan.  '49.  Robert  E.  Miller,  Jr.,  '49.  Harry  H. 
\1o(  ban,  Jr.,  '49.  Harvey  L.  Pastan,  '49.  Raymond  J. 
Remillard,  '49.  Hugh  M.  Robinson,  '49.  Donald  H. 
Story.  '49.  Burl  S.  Watson.  Jr..  '49.  Robert  R. 
Atherton.  '50.  Norman  E.  Baker,  '50,  John  P. 
Burgarella,  '50.  William  B.  Carpenter,  '50,  Neil  J. 
Crowley.  '50.  Henry  S.  C.  Cummings,  Jr.,  '50, 
Hoikki  K.  I.  Flo.  '50,  Saul  Gordon,  '50.  William  C. 
Griggs.  '50.  R.  Reed  Grimwade,  '50,  Charles  P. 
Gure,  '50,  Earle  A.  N.  Hallstrom.  '50.  Col.  Frank 
W.  Harding,  III.  '50.  Daniel  I-  Harrington.  Jr., 
'50,  Malcolm  D.  Horton.  '50.  Arthur  W.  Joyce,  Jr., 
'50.  Edmond  H.  fudd,  '50,  Francis  E.  Kearney. 
'50,  Richard  C.  Olson.  '50.  Dr.  John  C.  Orcutt. 
'50,  Robert  A.  Padgett,  '50.  John  W.  Peirce.  '50. 
Hammond  Robertson,  Ir..  '50.  Eli  S.  Sanderson.  '50. 
Louis  Shulman.  '50,  Robert  K.  Smith.  '50.  Henry 
Styskal,  Jr..  '50,  Donald  VY.   Thompson.  '50.  Philip 
A    Wild.  '50,  G.  Albert  Anderson.  '51.  Gerald  F. 
Atkinson.  '51.  Mark  E.  Maker.  '51.  Martin  G. 


Bromberg,  '51,  Richard  A.  Coffey,  Jr.,  '51,  Donalc 
J.  Corey,  '51,  William  J.  Cunneen,  '51,  Arthur  H. 
Gerald,  Jr.,  '51,  Harvey  L.  Howell,  '51,  Edmund  G 
Johnson,  '51,  Frank  A.  MacPherson,  '51,  Albert  / 
Mahassel,  '51,  Thomas  A.  McComiskey,  '51, 
Edward  C.  Moroney,  Jr.,  '51,  Duncan  W.  Munro, 
'51,  John  L.  Reid,  '51,  James  E.  Rich,  '51,  Robert  ^ 
Ripley,  '51,  Ramsey  U.  Sheikh,  '51,  Donald  F. 
Stockwell,  '51,  Richard  G.  Bennett,  '52,  Norman  } 
Frank,  '52,  Richard  T.  Gates,  '52.  Richard  C. 
Gillette,  '52,  S.  Paul  Li,  '52,  Paul  H.  Sanford,  '52, 
George  T.  Abdow,  '53,  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53, 
Richard  J.  Hall.,  '53,  John  E.  Leach,  '53,  William  C 
Mears,  '53,  Arthur  M.  Shepard,  '53,  David  T.  Vai 
Covern,  '53,  Robert  C.  Woodward,  '53,  Michael  S 
Zucker,  '53,  Jaak  Jurison,  '54,  Russell  R.  Lussier, 
'54,  Harry  L.  Mirick,  Jr.,  '54,  Dr.  Werner  M. 
Neupert,  '54,  Fabian  Pinkham,  '54,  Walter  A. 
Reibling,  '54,  Edwin  Shivell,  '54,  Gordon  E. 
Walters,  '54,  Dr.  Howard  J.  Dworkin,  '55, 
Prof.  Hartley  T.  Grandin,  Jr.,  '55,  Martin  A. 
Rafferty,  '55,  Robert  C.  Stempel,  '55,  Clifford  W. 
Burwick,  '56,  Dr.  Raymond  R.  Hagglund,  '56, 
Joseph  F.  Paparella,  '56,  David  A.  Pratt,  '56,  Pete 
J.  Stephens,  '56,  George  P.  Strom,  '56,  Donald  F. 
Berth,  '57,  Dr.  John  L.  Buzzi,  '57,  Richard  J. 
Ferguson,  '57,  George  H.  Long,  Jr.,  '57,  Edward  J. 
Moineau,  '57,  William  W.  Rawstron,  '57,  Arthur 
Shahian,  '57,  Richard  M.  Silven,  '57,  Harvey  A. 
Berger,  '58,  David  B.  Denniston,  '58,  Jasper  Frees 
'58,  Philip  M.  French,  Jr.,  '58,  Marian  C.  Knight, 
'58,  Robert  A.  Moore,  '58,  Joaquim  S.  S.  Ribeiro, 
'58.  James  J.  Vedovelli,  '58,  Richard  N.  Gustafson, 
'59,  Thomas  F.  Humphrey,  '59,  Peter  A.  Nelson, 
'59,  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59,  Dr.  George  P.  Rizzi, 
'59,  Howard  H.  Street,  III,  '59,  Mark  H. 
Abramowitz,  '60,  William  M.  Aitken,  '60,  Paul  W. 
Bayliss,  '60,  Dwight  M.  Cornell,  '60,  Richard  P. 
Harding,  '60,  Peter  A.  Lajoie,  '60,  Sang  K.  Lee.  '6( 
Benjamin  B.  Morgan,  '60,  Francis  G.  Toce,  '60, 
David  J.  Welch,  '60,  James  M.  Dunn,  '61,  Lee  P. 
Hackett,  '61,  Larry  L.  Israel,  '61,  Arthur  W.  Kroll, 
'61,  Charles  W.  Mello,  '61,  Lloyd  W.  Pote,  '61,  Joh 
W.  Powers,  '61,  Frederic  A.  Stevens,  '61, 
Dr.  James  W.  Swaine,  Jr.,  '61,  Ronald  C.  Ward.  '6: 
Bruce  W.  Woodford,  '61,  William  A.  Brutsch.  '62, 
Carmine  A.  Carosella,  '62,  James  L.  Forand,  Jr., 
'62,  David  L.  Goodman,  '62,  Major  Jay  P. 
Hochstaine,  '62,  Capt.  John  R.  Tufano,  '62, 
Dr.  Richard  F.  Dominguez,  '63,  David  E. 
Dunklee,  Jr.,  '63,  Ralph  D.  Gelling.  '63,  Robert  H. 
Gowdy,  '63,  John  B.  Lawson,  '63,  Robert  M.  Melloi 
'63,  Russell  E.  Person.  '63,  Stuart  P.  Bowen,  '64, 
Paul  A.  Covec,  '64,  Larry  G.  Hull,  '64,  Dr.  Bruce  S 
Maccabee,  '64,  Thomas  G.  McGee,  '64,  Thomas  J. 
Modzelewski.  '64,  Frederic  C.  Scofield,  III,  '64, 
William  E.  Shanok.  '64,  Robert  H.  Cahill,  '65, 
Alexander  B.  Campbell.  II,  '65,  William  D. 
Galebach.  '65,  Walter  J.  Ruthenburg,  III,  '65, 
Dr.  David  M.  Schwaber,  '65,  Chester  J.  Sergey,  Jr. 
'65,  Alfred  G.  Symonds,  '65,  Terry  G.  Tracy,  '65. 
David  C.  Johnson,  '66,  John  V.  Magnano,  '66.  Earl 
C.  Sparks,  III,  '66.  Edward  S.  Ciarpella,  '67. 
Thomas  A.  Gelormino.  '68,  Gregory  H.  Sovas,  '68, 
Alfred  G.  Freeberg,  '69,  Leonard  Polizzotto,  '70. 
Joseph  R.  Radosevich.  '70.  Raymond  J.  Biszko,  71, 
Gregory  S.  Dickson.  '71.  Reginald  G.  Dunlap.  '71, 
Thomas  J.  Kaminski,  '71,  Paul  B.  Popinchalk,  '71. 
Frank  W.  Steiner,  '71,  Francis  J.  Wehner.  Jr.,  '71, 
William  N.  Ault.  '73 


The  Alumni  Fund  Board 


Walter  J.  Charow,  '49 
Leonard  H.  White,  '41 

G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51 
Howard  I.  Nelson,  '54 

Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 
Daniel  J.  Maguire,  '66 


General  Chairman 

Chairman,  Presidents  Advisory 

Council 

Member 

Chairman,  Phonothon  Program 

Chairman,  Special  Gifts  Program 

Chairman,  Anniversary  Program 


The  Volunteers 

The  fund  is  successful  because  of  the 
many  hours  of  time  and  effort  which 
were  donated  by  individual  alumni  who 
are  the  key  link  in  the  solicitation 
process.  We  acknowledge  with  grateful 
thanks  the  efforts  and  successes  of  the 
following  volunteers: 


SPECIAL  GIFT  PROGRAM 


illiam  M.  Aitken,  '60,  J.  Norman  Alberti,  '24,  G. 
bert  Anderson,  '51,  Carl  W.  Backstrom,  '30, 
tnald  R.  Bates,  '40,  Robert  A.  Berg,  '59,  Delbert 
Betterley,  '42,  George  H.  Birchall,  Jr.,  '42, 
mneth  R.  Blaisdell,  '40,  Jack  F.  Boyd,  '39,  Robert 
Boyea,  '58,  Cushing  C.  Bozenhard,  '46,  John  W. 
aley,  Jr.,  '57,  Prof.  John  Lott  Brown,  '46,  Richard 
Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  George  Button  II,  '46,  Edward  M. 
ihill,  '55,  Walter  J.  Charow,  '49,  Edwin  B. 
tghlin,  Jr.,  '56,  Walter  F.  Conlin,  Jr.,  '46,  Rollin  K. 
jrwin,  '65,  Paul  M.  Craig,  Jr.,  '45,  Gordon  F. 
•owther,  '37,  Albert  M.  Demont,  '31,  Allen  R. 
3schere,  '38,  Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68,  Paul  C. 
sario,  Jr.,  '42,  Robert  E.  Dunklee,  Jr.,  '40,  Robert 
.  Edgerly,  '45,  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40,  Allan 
azer,  '47,  Thomas  B.  Graham,  '38,  Donald  J. 
-enier,  '55,  Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr.,  '40,  Dr. 
'illiam  E.  Hanson,  '32,  John  P.  Harding,  Jr.,  '47, 
ephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55, 
lomas  F.  Humphrey,  '59,  Chandler  W.  Jones,  '26, 
'illiam  A.  Julian,  '49,  P.  Warren  Keating,  '40, 


Wayne  E.  Keith,  '22,  Luther  C.  Leavitt,  '34,  C.  John 
Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39,  Daniel  L.  Lintz,  '49,  Francis  W. 
Madigan,  Jr.,  '53,  Louis  J.  Marsella,  '56,  Philip 
Michelman,  '51,  Charles  B.  Miczek,  '46,  Allen  M. 
Mintz,  '48,  Robert  A.  Muir,  '41,  Daniel  F. 
O'Grady,  '30,  Edward  J.  Odium,  '31,  Francis  J. 
Oneglia,  '42,  Carlton  J.  O'Neil,  '20,  Bradford  W. 
Ordway,  '39,  Julius  A.  Palley,  '46,  Joseph  F. 
Paparaella,  '56,  Russell  W.  Parks,  '41,  Harvey  L. 
Pastan,  '49,  Edward  A.  Pendleton,  '46,  Arthur  P. 
Pingalore,  '44,  Albert  J.  Raslavsky,  '39,  Lester  J. 
Reynolds,  Jr.,  '50,  James  E.  Rich,  '51,  Samuel 
Ringel,  '47,  Edmund  J.  Salate,  '48,  George  E. 
Saltus,  '53,  Trueman  L.  Sanderson,  '31,  Raymond 
B.  Shlora,  '40,  Robert  F.  Stewart,  '50,  Louis  E. 
Stratton,  '39,  George  P.  Strom,  '56,  Donald 
Taylor,  '49,  Etienne  Totti,  Jr.,  '42,  Otto  A. 
Wahlrab,  '54,  Sigurd  R.  Wendin,  '25,  Sidney  B. 
Wetherhead,  '45,  John  R.  Wheeler,  '17,  Leonard  H. 
White,  '41,  Norman  A.  Wilson,  '42,  Robert  F. 
Wilson,  '41 


PHONOTHON  PROGRAM 


Arnold  J.  Antak,  '68.  Richard  A.  Arena,  71,  James 
P.  Atkinson.  '69,  William  N.  Ault,  73,  Gregory  W. 
Backstrom,  70,  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46.  Nicholas  J. 
Barone.  '65.  Donald  W.  Bean,  '58,  Capt.  Francis  L. 
Belisle.  Jr..  70.  L.  Thomas  Benoit.  Jr..  '66,  Carl  W. 
Bergman.  Jr..  '46.  Paul  H.  Bergstrom,  '38.  Edouard 
S.  P.  Bouvier.  '55.  James  W.  Bowen,  74,  John  J. 
Bresnahan,  Jr.,  '68.  Daniel  J.  Brosnihan  III,  '62. 
Gedney  B.  Brown,  '55.  James  R.  Buell.  73.  William 
S.  Bushell,  '37,  Neil  T.  Buske.  '59.  Edward  F. 
Cahalen.  '27.  Robert  H.  Cahill,  '65.  Edwin  C. 
Campbell.  '43.  Donald  C.  Carlson,  '65,  John  H. 
Chapman,  '37,  Raymond  F.  Cherenzia,  73,  R. 
Norman  Clark,  '33.  Joseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr.,  '46, 
George  Davagian.  Jr..  '68.  Ralph  A.  Di  Iorio,  70, 
George  D.  Eldridge.  '63.  William  F.  Elliott.  '66. 
Willard  R.  Ernst.  '53,  Richard  M.  Filippetti,  73. 
Charles  S.  Frary,  Jr.,  '34,  George  F.  Gamache,  '68, 
Douglas  J.  George,  '69,  Carl  A.  Giese,  Jr.,  '43, 
Michael  T.  Glynn,  '68,  Michael  G.  Gordon,  '56, 
Philip  J.  Gow,  '43.  Miles  W.  Grant,  Jr.,  '59.  William 
G.  Hillner,  70,  David  G.  Holloway.  '59,  Timothy  C. 
Johnson.  71.  Elliott  D.  Jones,  '32,  John  D.  Kaletski, 
72.  Lawrence  Katzman.  '69,  Charles  D.  Konopka, 
'68.  Robert  J.  Leduc.  72,  Richard  A.  Loomis,  '55, 


Daniel  J.  Maguire,  '66,  R.  Michael  Malbon,  '63, 
Arthur  H.  Mallon,  '39,  Frederick  W.  Marvin,  '46,  ! 
Daniel  G.  Mazur,  '38,  Donald  M.  McNamara,  '55,  i 
John  C.  Meade,  '46,  Richard  R.  Nabb,  73,  Donald 
R.  Nelson,  '59,  Howard  I.  Nelson,  '54,  Peter  A. 
Nelson,  '59,  Stewart  W.  Nelson,  '66,  Robert  G. 
Newton,  '40,  Lcdr.  Brian  J.  O'Connell,  '62,  John  R. 
Palitsch,  74,  Lawrence  A.  Penoncello,  '66,  Neal  D 
Peterson,  '51,  Stephen  W.  Petroff,  '68,  Walter  E. 
Pillartz,  Jr.,  '61.  Andrew  L.  Piretti,  '68.  F.  David 
Ploss  III,  70,  Leonard  Polizzotto,  70,  Albert  Pollin 
'55,  Richard  G.  Ramsdell,  '41,  Lynwood  C.  Rice, 
'44,  William  G.  Ritchie,  '48,  John  E.  Rogozenski,  Jr.| 
'67,  James  F.  Rubino,  74,  Edward  G.  Samolis,  '52, 
Leon  R.  Scruton,  70,  Herbert  H.  Slaughter,  Jr.,  '4( 
Richard  A.  Sojka,  72,  Stanley  W.  Sokoloff,  '59, 
Douglas  H.  Tarble,  73,  Jayantilal  T.  Thakker,  '66, 
Victor  H.  Thulin,  '42,  Francis  G.  Toce,  '60,  John  G. 
Underhill,  '44,  Jeremiah  H.  Vail,  '33,  Charles  F. 
Walters,  '55,  Elbert  K.  Weaver,  '60,  Leonard  J. 
Weckel,  '66,  Leon  F.  Wendelowski,  '69,  Ralph  D. 
Whitmore,  Jr.,  '42,  Francis  L.  Witege,  '38,  Nancy 
E.  Wood,  73,  Robert  R.  Wood,  73,  Bruce  T.  Work 
74,  William  H.  Wyman,  '65,  Paul  C.  Yankauskas, 
'42,  Ronald  L.  Zarella,  71,  Michael  P.  Zarrilli,  71 


ANNIVERSARY  PROGRAM 


Harold  R.  Althen.  '52,  Gerald  F.  Atkinson,  '51, 
Bruce  M.  Bailey.  '51,  David  C.  Bailey,  '25,  Harold 

A.  Baines,  '26,  Leo  T.  Benoit,  '36,  Carl  F.  Benson, 
'36.  Milton  E.  Berglund,  '26,  Karl  H.  Bohaker,  '35. 
Carleton  W.  Borden,  '36,  Richard  C.  Boutiette,  '52, 
John  R.  Brand,  '36,  Paul  J.  Brown.  '50.  Harold  S. 
Burr.  '36,  Carl  F.  Carlstrom,  '25,  Allen  C.  Chase, 
'36.  George  L.  Chase.  '36,  Everett  S.  Child,  Jr..  '50, 

B.  Austin  Coates.  '35.  Henry  S.  Coe,  Jr.,  '50,  Henry 
S.C.  Cummings.  Jr..  '50,  Walter  G.  Dahlstrom,  '36, 

C.  Marshall  Dann.  '35,  Phillip  R.  Delphos,  '26, 
Henry  M.  Demarest,  Jr..  '51.  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
'51,  Dr.  Paul  M.  Downey,  '36.  Donald  L.  Edmunds, 
'36,  Clifford  I.  Fahlstrom.  '27.  Robert  Fowler.  Jr., 
'36.  George  W.  Fuller.  '36.  Rafael  R.  Gabarro,  '51, 
Alexander  L.  Gordon,  '36,  J.  Edward  Guild.  '36, 
Allan  F.  Hardy.  Jr..  '35.  Daniel  J.  Harrington,  Jr.. 
'50.  William  H.  Haslett,  Jr.,  '51.  Lawson  T.  Hill.  Jr., 
"50,  E.  Carl  Hoglund,  '27.  Arthur  V.  Houle,  '25, 
Richard  E.  Howard.  '51.  Daniel  L.  Hussey.  '25,  Carl 
E.  [ohansson,  '51,  Edmund  G.  Johnson.  '51.  Joseph 
A.  Johnson.  Jr..  '35.  W.  Evans  lohnson.  '51.  F. 
Kenwood  [ones,  '36,  Arthur  W.  Joyce.  Jr..  '50. 

li  .mi  is  I-!.  Kearney,  '50.  Kirke  Leonard.  '51. 


Donald  C.  Lewis,  '51,  Stanley  R.  Lindberg,  '51, 
Robert  M.  Luce,  '51,  Dewey  R.  Lund,  '51,  Philip  A. 
MacArdle,  '27,  Frank  A.  MacPherson,  '51,  Luther 
B.  Martin,  '25,  Thomas  A.  McComiskey,  '51,  James 
H.  Meiklejohn,  Jr.,  '50,  Henry  L.  Mellen,  '25, 
Stanley  L.  Miller,  '51,  David  M.  Morley,  '36, 
Edward  C.  Moroney,  Jr.,  '51,  William  F.  Mufatti, 
'51,  Duncan  W.  Munro,  '51,  Edwin  H.  Nahikian, 
'51,  Roland  L.  Nims,  '35,  John  J.  O'Donnell,  '36, 
Kenneth  W.  Parsons,  '50,  Charles  C.  Peirce,  '51, 
Michael  C.  Rallis,  '36,  George  E.  Rocheford,  '36. 
Robert  W.  Rodier,  '51,  Lawrence  F.  Scinto,  '51, 
Robert  B.  Scott,  '25,  Paul  F.  Seibold,  '50,  Ramsey  j 
U.  Sheikh,  '51,  Alan  F.  Shepardson,  '36,  George  A. 
Sherwin,  '36,  Lester  A.  Slocum,  Jr.,  '51,  Dr. 
Stedman  W.  Smith,  '36,  Eric  W.  Soderberg,  '35, 
Vartkes  Sohigian,  '51,  Donald  J.  Spooner,  '51, 
Mabbott  B.  Steele,  '26,  Philip  J.  Sullivan,  '35,  Roger 
W.  Swanson,  '51,  Gordon  S.  Swift,  '35,  Henry  D. 
Taylor,  '51,  Robert  B.  Taylor,  '35,  Joseph  E. 
Thomas,  '51,  John  M.  Tracy,  '52.  Arthur  D. 
Tripp.  Jr..  '36,  Abbott  D.  Wilcox,  '36,  Plummer 
Wiley.  '35,  Samuel  R.  Winther,  '51.  Robert  C. 
Wright,  '36,  Frederick  L.  Yeo.  '36 


GIVING  BY  CHAPTER 

#In 

#Of 

Percent 

Goals 

Total 

Cash  -  % 

Average 

Chapter 

Chapter 

Gifts 

Participation 

Cash 

Of  Goal 

Gift 

Berkshire 

77 

26 

33.77 

1,600.00 

$      727.67 

$45.47 

$  27.99 

Boston 

1062 

394 

37.10 

24,000.00 

20,471.00 

85.29 

51.96 

Central  New  York 

111 

55 

49.55 

2,800.00 

1,795.00 

64.10 

32.64 

Chicago 

130 

45 

34.62 

6,000.00 

2,942.50 

49.04 

65.39 

Cincinnati 

52 

18 

34.61 

1,600.00 

945.00 

59.06 

52.50 

Cleveland 

103 

44 

42.71 

3,500.00 

2,950.00 

84.28 

67.04 

Connecticut  Valley 

362 

141 

38.95 

11,500.00 

6,082.00 

52.88 

43.13 

)etroit 

106 

49 

46.23 

3,000.00 

2,810.00 

93.66 

57.35 

lastern  Connecticut 

163 

68 

41.72 

3,000.00 

9,674.49 

322.48 

142.27 

lartford 

688 

288 

41.86 

20,000.00 

10,253.34 

51.26 

35.60 

ludson-Mohawk 

185 

94 

50.81 

4,500.00 

4,074.20 

90.53 

43.34 

,os  Angeles 

276 

97 

35.14 

18,000.00 

4,305.00 

23.91 

44.38 

Jew  Haven 

404 

154 

38.11 

10,000.00 

6,133.34 

61.33 

39.82 

Jew  York 

505 

179 

35.45 

17,500.00 

13,916.68 

79.52 

77.75 

forth  Shore 

352 

144 

40.91 

7,500.00 

5,647.48 

75.29 

39.22 

Northern  California 

192 

83 

43.23 

7,000.00 

3,764.00 

53.77 

45.35 

Northern  New  Jersey 

468 

222 

47.44 

17,000.00 

18,969.01 

111.58 

85.45 

'acific  Northwest 

50 

19 

38.00 

4,000.00 

2,007.00 

50.17 

105.63 

'hiladelphia 

318 

123 

38.68 

7,000.00 

4,626.82 

66.09 

37.62 

'ittsburgh 

81 

46 

56.79 

4,000.00 

2,295.00 

57.37 

49.89 

'hode  Island 

383 

121 

31.59 

7,500.00 

3,851.02 

51.34 

31.83 

'ochester-Genessee 

120 

62 

51.66 

2,500.00 

2,170.00 

86.80 

35.00 

•outheastern 

86 

29 

33.72 

3,000.00 

592.75 

19.75 

20.43 

t.  Louis 

19 

9 

47.36 

1,000.00 

210.00 

21.00 

23.33 

Vashington 

446 

204 

45.74 

15,000.00 

10,749.16 

71.66 

52.69 

Vestern  New  York 

80 

38 

47.50 

2,500.00 

1,109.50 

44.38 

29.19 

Vilmington 

104 

46 

44.23 

3,000.00 

2,080.00 

69.33 

45.22 

Vorcester 

2066 

639 

30.93 

50,000.00 

35,372.06 

70.74 

55.91 

)ut  of  District 

1983 

656 

33.08 

42,000.00 

33,125.50 

78.87 

50.50 

iddress  Unknown 

609 

12 

01.97 

1,920.35 

0.00 

160.03 

'otals 

11,581 

4,105 

35.45 

300,000.00 

$215,569.87 

$71.85 

$52.51 

IN  MEMORIAM 

emorial  gifts  of  $4,895.00  were  received  in 
emory  of  the  following  alumni: 

mes  E.  Smith,  '06,  Lester  H.  Greene,  '12, 
arquhar  W.  Smith,  '13,  Richard  W.  Young,  '16, 
lien  D.  Wassail,  '17,  William  F.  Ronco,  '25, 
arold  P.  Kranz,  '29,  Lothar  A.  Sontag,  '29, 
/arren  C.  Whittum,  '30,  Ladislaus  T.  Jodaitis,  '35, 
awrence  F.  Hull,  '64,  Robert  W.  Suhr,  '65. 


BEQUESTS 

equests  totaling  $290,750.99  were  received  during 
le  past  year  from  the  estates  of: 

lmer  H.  Wilmarth,  '97,  Joseph  W.  Rogers,  '01, 
dwin  M.  Roberts,  '04,  James  H.  Manning,  '06, 
rthur  J.  Knight,  '07,  Herbert  P.  Sawtell,  '08, 
Harold  P.  Conklin,  '11,  John  Barnard,  '13,  Harry  B. 
indsay,  '13,  Wyman  H.  Varney,  '13,  Edward  T. 
mes,  '14,  Raymond  W.  Burns,  '16,  Paul  M. 
.bbott,  '20. 


GIVING  BY  CLASS 


Total  in 

Percent 

Total  Cash 

Average 

Class 

Class 

#  of  Gifts 

Participation 

Gifts 

Gift 

1890 

1 

0 

1895 

2 

0 

1896 

3 

0 

1897 

2 

0 

1898 

1 

0 

1900 

2 

0 

1901 

3 

0 

1902 

2 

0 

1903 

6 

1 

16.66 

50.00 

50.00 

1905 

4 

1 

25.00 

50.00 

50.00 

1906 

7 

4 

57.14 

138.00 

34.50 

1907 

10 

6 

60.00 

305.00 

50.83 

1908 

14 

7 

50.00 

360.00 

51.42 

1909 

12 

4 

33.33 

250.00 

62.50 

1910 

18 

5 

27.77 

300.00 

60.00 

1911 

13 

4 

30.76 

275.00 

68.75 

1912 

29 

14 

48.27 

1,440.00 

102.85 

1913 

27 

12 

44.44 

1,170.00 

97.50 

1914 

32 

16 

50.00 

2,505.00 

156.56 

1915 

38 

19 

50.00 

7,899.49 

415.76 

1916 

47 

19 

40.42 

1,427.50 

75.13 

1917 

57 

25 

43.86 

4,054.00 

162.16 

1918 

45 

22 

48.89 

985.00 

44.47 

1919 

38 

23 

60.52 

6,367.80 

276.86 

1920 

67 

35 

52.23 

3,685.00 

105.28 

1921 

54 

26 

48.14 

1,840.00 

70.76 

1922 

75 

35 

46.66 

2,135.00 

61.00 

1923 

62 

39 

62.90 

3,275.84 

83.99 

1924 

54 

31 

57.40 

376.00 

12.12 

1925 

67 

28 

41.79 

4,340.00 

155.00 

1926 

105 

51 

48.57 

10,978.50 

215.26 

1927 

74 

35 

47.29 

4,410.00 

126.00 

1928 

90 

50 

55.55 

1,661.00 

33.22 

1929 

81 

43 

53.09 

1,288.00 

29.95 

1930 

115 

46 

40.00 

3,022.00 

65.70 

1931 

115 

54 

46.96 

5,997.00 

111.06 

1932 

110 

46 

41.82 

3,138.00 

68.22 

1933 

123 

62 

50.40 

3.189.17 

51.43 

1934 

113 

72 

63.71 

4,201.67 

58.35 

1935 

134 

78 

58.21 

13,660.50 

175.13 

1936 

103 

52 

50.48 

4,698.00 

90.34 

1937 

107 

59 

55.14 

4,747.75 

80.47 

1938 

136 

63 

46.32 

5,129.34 

81.41 

1939 

140 

78 

55.71 

3,070.00 

39.36 

1940 

153 

72 

47.06 

3,703.50 

51.44 

1941 

155 

68 

43.87 

2.850.00 

41.91 

1942 

161 

78 

48.45 

2,729.87 

35.00 

1943 

143 

62 

43.36 

1,817.50 

29.31 

1944 

157 

63 

40.13 

4,374.00 

69.43 

1945 

142 

61 

42.96 

2,779.98 

45.57 

1946 

3 1 5 

89 

28.25 

3.403.04 

38.24 

1947 

79 

31 

39.24 

1,292.00 

41.68 

1948 

188 

64 

34.04 

4.090.85 

63.91 

1949 

243 

128 

52.67 

5.588.35 

43.66 

19 

212 

103 

48.58 

5.882.50 

57.11 

Total  in 

Percent 

Total  Cash 

Average 

Class 

Class 

#  of  Gifts 

Participation 

Gifts 

Gift 

1951 

196 

81 

41.32 

6,243.18 

77.07 

1952 

173 

19 

10.98 

1,115.00 

58.68 

1953 

186 

78 

41.93 

2,741.00 

35.14 

1954 

157 

57 

36.31 

2,485.00 

43.60 

1955 

148 

58 

39.19 

2,430.35 

41.90 

1956 

164 

65 

39.63 

2,037.00 

31.34 

1957 

230 

82 

35.65 

2,715.00 

33.11 

1958 

235 

75 

31.91 

5,038.00 

67.17 

1959 

277 

102 

36.82 

3,232.00 

31.69 

1960 

297 

92 

30.98 

2,740.00 

29.78 

1961 

318 

103 

32.39 

3,504.30 

34.02 

1962 

283 

75 

26.50 

2,085.00 

27.80 

1963 

264 

92 

34.85 

2,702.00 

29.37 

1964 

322 

96 

29.81 

2,679.48 

27.91 

1965 

327 

112 

34.25 

3,257.65 

29.08 

1966 

346 

106 

30.64 

2,547.00 

24.03 

1967 

354 

102 

28.81 

1,973.96 

19.35 

1968 

448 

121 

27.01 

3,670.00 

30.33 

1969 

354 

115 

32.48 

2,129.00 

18.51 

1970 

392 

103 

26.27 

2,208.32 

21.44 

1971 

453 

124 

27.37 

2,783.48 

22.44 

1972 

357 

68 

19.05 

1,052.00 

15.47 

1973 

537 

131 

24.39 

2,320.00 

17.71 

1974 

477 

60 

12.58 

850.00 

14.17 

Other 

4 

100.00 

25.00 

Total 

11,581 

4,105 

35.45 

215,569.87 

52.51 

GIFTS  BY  SIZE 

Number  of 

rift  Range 

Cash  Gifts 

Cash  Total 

5000  and  above 

2 

$11,889.49 

2000  -  4999 

5 

13,399.00 

1000-1999 

22 

23,855.09 

600-    999 

7 

3,976.00 

300-    599 

80 

24,708.35 

100-    299 

543 

65,202.76 

50-      99 

545 

28,345.88 

25-      49 

981 

26,158.04 

1-      24 

1,920 

18,035.26 

Total 

4,105 

$215,569.87 

DISTRIBUTION  OF  GIFTS 

Student  Aid 

Alumni  Scholarships 

$  29,000.00 

Additional  Financial  Aid 

10,000.00 

Athletic  Department 

18,743.00 

Faculty  Salaries 

20,000.00 

Computer  Center  (PDP-10  Computer] 

40,333.00 

Restricted  Gifts 

Class  of  1925  (Biomedical  Neuro- 

electrophysiology  Labs) 

4,340.00 

Class  of  1935  (Endowed  Scholarship) 

13,660.50 

Class  of  1950  (Life  Science 

Instrument  Lab) 

5,882.50 

Class  of  1934  (Admissions  Office 

Renovation) 

4,201.67 

Class  of  1948  (Audio-Visual  Facility) 

4,090.85 

Other  Restricted  Class  Gifts 

27,444.68 

General  and  Miscellaneous 

37,873.67 

Grand  Total 

$215,569.87 

Honor  Roll 


An  asterisk  (*)  before  a  name  in  the  class  list  indicates  that  the  alumnus 
has  been  a  continuous  conbributor  to  the  Alumni  Fund  since  his 
graduation  or  since  the  Fundbegan  in  1924.  We  heartily  thank  these  loyal 
donors. 


CLASS  OF  1903 

Henry  J.  Potter 

CLASS  OF  1905 

Ernest  C.  Morse 

CLASS  OF  1906 

Mark  Eldredge.  Franklin  C.  Green.  Roy  S.  Lanphear.  L.  Norman 
Reeve 

CLASS  OF  1907 

L.  Herbert  Carter.  Percy  M.  Hall.  Raymond  A.  Haskell.  Howard 
H.  Haynes,  /ames  B.  Lowell.  *Donald  H.  Mace 

CLASS  OF  1908 

Herbert  M.  Carleton.  Royal  W.  Davenport.  Sumner  A.  Davis. 
Leon  W.  Hitchcock.  George  H.  Ryan.  Donald  D.  Simonds. 
Richmond  W.  Smith 

CLASS  OF  1909 

George  A.  Barnitt.  Charles  F.  Goldthwaif.  Frank  E.  Hawkes, 
'Wilfred  F.  /ones 

CLASS  OF  1910 

Charles  E.  Barney.  Millard  F.  Clement.  Edward  A.  Han/f.  *OZiver 
B.  Jacobs.  Everett  D.  Learned 

CLASS  OF  1911 

E.  Donald  Beach.  David  E.  Carpenter.  A.  Hugh  Reid.  Clarence  W. 
Tqfi 

CLASS  OF  1912 

Eric  G.  Benedict.  In  Memory  of  Harrison  G.  Brown.  George  E. 
Clifford,  hirl  IV.  Gieason,  I  Francis  Granger,  Guy  C  Hawkins, 
Alfrnl  R,  Kinney,  Frank  M.  McGowan,  Eugene  H.  Powers.  Henry 
A   Rickett,  */ames  I  Shea,  Hariand  F.  Stuart,  Edward  /.  Tucker, 

F.  Ho/man  Waring 

CLASS  OF  1913 

Clarence  A  Brock,  Edmund  K.  Brown,  Arthur  C.  Burleigh, 
'Frederics  S  Carpenter,  George  C  Graham,  Allen  H.  Gridiey, 
David  G  Howard,  Albert  J.  Lorion,  /  Arthur  Planteroth,  Leon  II 
Hue  In  Memory  of  Farquhai  W  Smith,  Millard  C.  Spencer 

CLASS  OF  1914 

fames  I.  Atsatt.  Edward  C  Bartlett,  vVinthrop  B.  Brown,  Arthur 
H  Bums,  Horace  L  '.ale.  AJberi  S  Crandon,  Ray  C.  Crouch, 
fohn  /  Desmond,  'Franklin  C  Gurley,  EUwood  N.  Hennessy,  Earl 
C  Hughes,  Chester  M  fnman,  George  Ross,  William  W.  Spratt, 
Arthw  C  Torrey,  Clayton  R.  Wilcox 

CLASS  OF  1915 

Clarence  f  Alexander.  Allen  M  Atwater.  Howard  C  Barnes, 
William  I  Becker,  fohn  M  Bond,  Frederick  P  Church,  Dav/d  H. 
Fleming,  Franli  Forsberg,  lohn  \\    Gieason,  Eunei  H  Haines, 
•RusseiJ  N  Hunter,  lh   Charles  R  Hurd,  Everett  Hutchins, 
Winfield  S  Jewell  h    Raymond  P  Lansing.  Douglas  F  Miner, 
Edward  fl   IVarj    Myron  M  Smith.  Maurice  G  .Steele 


CLASS  OF  1916 

*/.  Arthur  Blair.  Carl  H.  Burgess.  Leslie  /.  Chaffee.  Wellen 
Coburn.  *Simon  Collier.  Roland  D.  Home.  Robert  E.  Lamb. 
Donald  B.  Maynard,  Joseph  E.  Murphy.  Dr.  Arthur  Nuft.  Chei 
G.  Rice,  Clifford  W.  Sanderson.  Harold  G.  Saunders,  *C.  Leroj 
Storms.  Sidnev  T.  Swallow.  Horace  Trull.  William  S.  Warner 
Selden  T.  Williams,  In  Memory  of  Richard  W.  Young,  AureliaJ 
Zamburano 

CLASS  OF  1917 

Edward  M.  Rrennan.  Walter  F.  Conlin  Sr..  Clinton  S.  Darling. 
Richard  R.  Davidson,  Wentworth  P.  Doolittle,  Clarence  E.  Fa) 
*Alfred  W.  Francis.  Walter  H.  Gi/ford.  Ronald  E.  Greene.  Roi 
C.  Hanckel.  Charles  E.  Heywood.  Louis  E.  Jacoby,  Everett  R. 
Janvrin.  Richard  D.  Lambert.  William  L.  G.  MacKenzie.  Paul 
Matte.  Philip  C.  Pray.  *Hermon  F.  Saf/ord.  Henry  W.  Sheldrii 
Clarence  B.  Tilton,  Max  W.  Tucker,  John  A,  C  Warner.  In 
Memory  of  Allen  D.  Wassail.  John  R.  Wheeler,  Hollis  J.  Wynr 

CLASS  OF  1918 

Charles  C  Alvord.  James  Apostolou.  Howlund  RuttJer.  Harolc 
Davis.  Walter  fi.  Dennen.  Ervant  H.  Eresian.  Osborne  T  Evei 
George  C  Griffith.  *Norman  P.  Knowlton.  *John  F.  Kyes.  Jr.. 
Hey  ward  F.  Lawton.  Lewis  F.  Lion  vale.  Roger  M.  Lovell.  Frar 
N.  Luce.  *Ben;amin  Luther.  Arthur  M.  Millard,  Maurice  W. 
Richardson.  Iver  G.  Schmidt.  Ralph  F.  Tenney,  Oakley  C.  WulM 
Win/red  D.  Wilkinson.  Frederick  E.  Wood 

CLASS  OF  1919 

*Edwin  W.  Remis.  Carl  I.  Benson.  Everett  C.  Bryant.  George  VU 
Caldwell,  Hoy  H.  Carpenter.  Roger  R.  Chaffee,  John  W.  CoghM 
Cyril  W.  Dawson.  Howard  S.  Foster.  Dana  D.  Goodwin.  Ray  V\l 
Heffeman,  Judah  H:Hum/)hrey.  Howard  A.  McConville,  H.  Ead 
Munz,  Vincent  J.  Petfine.  George  fi.  fiich.  George  W.  fiorabacH 
lr..  Thomas  R.  Rutherford.  *Roberi  C.  Sessions,  Wilder  S.  Smitfc 
Charles  W.  Staples,  Raymond  E.  Taylor,  Watson  H.  Whitney    | 

CLASS  OF  1920 

Chester  W.  Aldrich.  *Arvid  E.  Anderson.  Malcolm  R.  Arthur.  I 
Willis  F.  Atkinson,  Laurence  G.  Bean.  Raymond  I).  Bishop, 
George  R.  Rlaisddl.  Harold  I).  Ihmtrllr.  Herbert  E.  Brooks, 

Frederic  R,  Bailor.  Norman  C  Firth.  *Miiton  W.  Carlo/id.  /'null 
Harriman,  Raymond  R.  Heath,  Allan  W.  Hill,  lohn  Q.  Holmes.  I 
Col.  Robert  W.  Horner,  Harold  G.  Hunt.  W.  Stanley  Lawrence. 

•Rurion  W.  Marsh.  Raymond  F.  Meader,  "Carlton  I.  O'Neii. 
Hober/  A.  Peterson,  Sr.,  Fredericli  E.  Reiners.  Albert  R.  Hienstnj 
Saul  Robinson,  Baalis  San/ord,  *  Walter  B.  Shear.  Homer  E. 
Stevens,  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Ernest  Thompson,  Jr..  George  L, 
White,  Lester  C.  Wightman,  Guj  F.  Woodward.  Oliver  R.  VA'nlf* 


1SS  OF  1922 

i  W.  AJden.  CharJes  I.  Babcock,  Roy  G.  Bennett.  Wellington 
ingham.  Aiden  I.  Brigham.  Carl  W.  Carlson,  Charles  N. 
kson,  Chester  P.  Currier.  CharJes  S.  Cushing.  Emerson  B. 
leil.  Richard  D.  Field,  Russeil  M.  Field.  Weston  Hodden. 
?rt  B.  Hall,  John  A.  Herr.  Wilfred  H.  Howe.  Lawrence  K. 
9.  Enfried  T.  Larson,  Kenneth  /.  LJoyd,  James  L.  Marston, 
tk  R.  Mason.  Lloyd  F.  McGlincy.  *Carl  F.  Meyer.  Fred  P. 
lrd.  C.  Warren  Page,  Philip  S.  Parker,  George  F.  Parsons. 
f  Pickwick.  Jr..  Harold  S.  Rice.  John  V.  Russell,  Stanley  M. 
nsend.  *George  A.  Walker.  *Philip  H.  White.  *Everett  G. 
htman,  Robert  M.  Wilder 

VSS  OF  1923 

irleton  Adams,  Jesse  M.  Blodget,  W.  Roy  Cdrrick,  George  S. 
/,  *Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Lincoln  A.  Cundall,  Andrew  Fiore, 
on  M.  Goodnow,  Aldo  P.  Greco.  Kenneth  E.  Hopgood, 
;am  /.  Harrington,  *C.  Freeman  Hawley.  Carl  M.  Holden, 
Hurowitz.  Edward  B.  Johnson,  Harold  C.  Johnston.  Harold 
idson.  Lewis  /.  Lenny.  Philip  W.  Lundgren.  Joseph  P.  Mason, 
in  H.  Mattson.  Donald  McAllister.  Ralph  R.  Meigs,  Percival 
eyer.  Weston  Morrill,  *Dr.  Howard  S.  Nutting,  Ralph  C. 
:e.  Cortice  N.  Rice.  Jr..  Kenneth  C.  Roberts,  Philip  /. 
nson.  Frederick  H.  Scheer.  Richard  H.  V.  Shaw,  George  B. 
v.  Dr.  Carleton  S.  Sprague.  Dr.  Paul  R.  Swan,  John  H.  Tsui, 
■r  T.  Waite.  Richard  Walberg,  Ralph  W.  White 

iSS  OF  1924 

forman  Alberti,  Clarence  E.  Anderson.  Solon  C.  Bartlett. 
ard  G.  Beardsley.  Milton  A.  Bemis.  Prof.  Francis  C.  Bragg, 
ard  J.  Burke,  Edward  L.  Carrington,  Godfrey  /.  Danielson, 
ge  D.  Estes,  *Warren  B.  Fish.  Roger  A.  Fuller.  Preston  W. 
!,  E.  Herbert  Higgins.  Leslie  J.  Hooper.  Harry  L.  Hurd. 
ge  S.  Johnson.  Edward  F.  Kennedy.  Simeon  C.  Leyland, 
k  H.  Linsley.  Lionel  O.  Lundgren,  Walter  T.  MacAdam, 
,'las  B.  Martin.  Clarence  W.  McElroy.  Arthur  P.  Miller.  F. 
Ronca.  Alfred  P.  Storms.  Stephen  J.  Vouch,  Raymond  G. 
ox.  *Gordon  C.  Willard.  *Donald  B.  Wilson 

iSS  OF  1925 

d  C.  Bailey.  Edwin  M.  Bailey.  Charles  H.  Bidwell.  Wolcott  S. 
?U.  Llewellyn  A.  Burgess.  Carl  F.  Carlstrom.  Louis  Corash. 
;s  J.  Cornell,  Roland  A.  Crane.  O.  Arnold  Hansen.  Arthur  V. 
e.  *Daniel  L.  Hussey.  James  C.  Irish,  Roland  C.  Klebart. 
her  B.  Martin.  Kenzo  Matsuo.  Donald  M.  McAndrew.  Henry 
elien.  David  J.  Minott.  Julian  A.  Pendleton.  Kenneth  A.  Pratt, 
rt  E.  Quinlan.  Leonard  F.  Sanborn,  Robert  B.  Scott, 
•ion  K.  Sterrett.  L.  Jvan  Underwood.  William  H.  Welch. 
-d  R.  Wendin 

iSS  OF  1926 

ieth  R.  Archibald.  *Harold  A.  Baines.  Milton  E.  Bergiund. 
ir  H.  Brewster.  Leonard  C.  Colder,  C.  Sture  Carlson, 
ond  J.  Chinnock.  Raymond  C.  Connolly,  *Phillip  R.  Delphos, 
lerick  D.  Fielder.  Carroll  D.  Forristali,  Donald  L.  Hager, 
mr  W.  Haley,  Carl  G.  Hammar,  *Charles  B.  Hardy,  Frederic 
aske/1.  Charles  M.  Healey.  Jr..  Fred  H.  Hedin,  *Eugene  M. 
ter.  Stanley  F.  Johnson,  Chandler  W.  Jones.  Edward  Jones.  O. 
Wd  Kallander.  Vahan  B.  Kurkjian.  Winthrop  S.  Marston. 
leton  F.  Maylott.  Pro/.  Kenneth  G.  Merriam.  Henry  G. 
rum.  John  S.  Miller.  Charles  M.  Moran.  *John  A.  Morse. 
S.  Otis.  Linwood  E.  Page.  Armand  L.  Paquette.  Arthur  C. 
•oris.  Lawrence  S.  Peterson,  George  I.  Pierce.  James  A. 
'.(son.  William  A.  Russell.  Randall  P.  Saxton.  Theodore  D. 
jonmaker.  Donald  F.  Sears.  Mabbott  B.  Steele.  Harry  E. 
(ton.  Charles  J.  Thompson.  *Howurd  B.  Thompson.  Liewellin 
ififade.  Axel  H.  Wendin.  Warren  T.  Wentworth.  Emerson  A. 
gin.  Alfred  D.  Wilson 

\SS  OF  1927 

lard  E.  Bliven.  Bradford  M.  Bowker.  George  L.  Bush,  Chester 
)eune.  Herbert  P.  Dobie.  Clifford  I.  Fahistrom.  Charles  H. 
$  Cecil  R.  Furminger.  Louis  H.  Gri//,  Chester  Haitsma,  Joseph 
farris.  *George  J.  Heckman.  *Victor  E.  Hill.  E.  Carl  Hoglund. 
Richard  K.  Irons,  Robert  E.  Johnson.  Walter  G.  Johnson. 
nrd  /.  Keurnun.  Donald  L.  King.  Philip  A.  MacArdle,  Charles 
:Lennan,  Dean  L.  Merrill.  *Charles  S.  Moore.  Kevork  K. 
ligyan.  Charles  B.  Parker.  Robert  L.  Parker.  William  M. 
ha.  Carl  H.  Schwind.  Dr.  Donald  S.  Searle.  Nathan  M. 
thwick,  Jr..  Thomas  A.  Steward.  Paul  W.  Swenson,  Emmett  A. 
fiver,  Rernard  J.  Wahlin.  *Russell  G.  Whittemore 


CLASS  OF  1928 

Lyman  C.  Adams,  Milton  H.  Aldrich.  Carl  F.  Alsing,  Lawrence  E. 
Backlin.  Roderick  A.  Bail.  Gabriel  O.  Bedard.  Harold  G. 
Butterworth.  *Frank  E.  Buxton,  Bernard  N.  Carlson.  Frederick  R. 
Cook.  Charles  H.  Decater.  John  E.  Driscoll,  Charles  G.  Durbin. 
Theodore  J.  Englund.  Frank  J.  Fleming.  W.  Bigeiow  Hall.  Paul 
Henley.  *Francis  H.  King,  Frederick  H.  Knight,  *A.  Everett 
Lawrence.  William  M.  Lester,  Clifford  S.  Livermore.  Ralph  H. 
Lundberg,  James  A.  MacNabb,  William  A.  Manty,  Andrew  F. 
Maston,  Roland  C.  Mather,  James  H.  McCarthy.  Alexander  L. 
Naylor,  Forrest  S.  Nelson.  Reginald  J.  Odabashian,  Arthur  W. 
Oicott,  Harland  L.  Page.  Karl  W.  Penney,  Wilbur  H.  Perry, 
Lincoln  H.  Peterson.  Stanley  H.  Pickford.  *Donald  P.  Reed. 
Gordon  E.  Rice.  Frederick  G.  Sandstrom.  Lester  H.  Sarty,  Paul  C. 
Schmidt.  Arthur  T  Simmonds,  Roger  K.  Stoughton,  Milton  A. 
Swanson,  Roger  B.  Tarbox.  Harold  R.  Voigt,  Winslow  C. 
Wentworth,  Andrew  L.  Wilkenson,  Julian  A.  Witkege 

CLASS  OF  1929 

Frederick  G.  Baldwin.  *Wayne  S.  Berry.  Clifford  Broker,  Dr. 
Arthur  H.  Burr.  Luther  Q.  H.  Chin.  Nathaniel  Clapp.  Prof. 
Laurence  F.  Cleveland.  William  L.  Crosby,  Boris  Dephoure.  Diran 
Deranian,  John  R.  Dobie,  Frank  H.  French,  *J.  Kendall  FulJerton, 
Arthur  E.  Gilbert.  Jr.,  Albert  C.  Holt.  Holbrook  L.  Horton,  Francis 
E.  R.  Johnson.  *Arthur  W.  Knight,  Milton  F.  LaBonte.  Edward  E. 
Lane,  Daniel  R.  Leamy.  Clayton  B.  Marshall,  John  H.  McCarthy. 
Frederick  J.  McGowan,  Jr.,  John  L.  Mooshian,  Percy  E.  Newton. 
Carleton  E.  Nims,  Andrew  J.  O'Connell.  Erold  F.  Pierce,  Halbert 
E.  Pierce.  Jr..  John  D.  Putnam,  Harold  G.  Richards.  Nicholas  J. 
Ruperti.  A.  Harold  Rustigian,  Lawrence  Silverborg.  Richard  J. 
Stone.  Wilford  A.  Sutthill,  Robert  L.  Towne,  George  J.  Tsatsis. 
Tuito  K.  Walkonen,  Francis  Wiesman,  *Russell  C.  Wiley.  Dr. 
James  H:  Williams 

CLASS  OF  1930 

Henry  O.  Allen,  *Carl  W.  Backstrom.  Albert  A.  Baron.  David  K. 
Bragg.  *E.  Waldemar  Carlson,  C.  Eugene  Center,  Charles  H. 
Cole.  John  W.  Conley.  George  W.  Crossley.  William  H.  Doyle, 
Charles  R.  Fay,  Stanley  H.  Fillion,  Myrton  P.  Finney,  Leland  H. 
Fisler.  Thomas  F.  Flynn.  Ralph  H.  Gilbert.  Albert  M.  Goodnow, 
Armando  E.  Greco.  Carmelo  S.  Greco,  Allan  L.  Hall.  Lincoln  B. 
Hathaway.  Robert  E.  Hollick,  Francis  E.  Kennedy,  *Pro/.  William 
W.  Locke.  *George  A.  Marston,  Albert  N.  Narter,  Daniel  F. 
O'Grudy.  John  R.  Parker.  George  E.  Perreault.  Dean  M. 
Lawrence  Price,  J.  Lloyd  Richmond.  Walter  Rutman,  Dr.  Philip 
M.  Seal.  Donald  Simonds.  Wendell  H.  Simpson.  Clyde  T.  Smith, 
Prof.  Harry  A.  Sorensen.  George  W.  Stratton,  John  H.  Sylvester, 
William  E.  Tate.  Alvin  E.  Thrower.  John  T.  Tompkins.  Jr. .Paul  J. 
Topelian.  Vernon  E.  Wade.  Milton  Y.  Warner,  John  H.  Wells 

CLASS  OF  1931 

Robert  E.  Barrett,  Clifford  A.  Bergquist.  Robert  Bumstead,  Joseph 
/.  Bunevith.  Hilding  O.  Carlson.  Benjamin  R.  Chadwick,  F.  Dudley 
Chaffee.  Edward  S.  Coe.  Jr..  Victor  N.  Colby.  Royal  W.  Cooper. 
Russell  V.  Corsini.  Henry  N.  Deane,  Albert  M.  Demont,  Frederick 
A.  Farrar.  Theodore  L.  Fish.  Paul  H.  Fittz,  C.  Russeil  Gill.  Milton 
D.  Gleason.  *A.  Wallace  Gove.  William  Graham.  Allan  G.  Hall, 
Raymond  E.  Hall,  Jay  M.  Harpell.  Edwin  V.  Haskell.  John  H. 
Hinchcli//e,  Jr.,  Ralph  Hodgkinson,  Frederic  C.  Holmes.  Charles 
A.  Kennedy,  *David  D.  Kiley,  Russell  J.  Libbey,  Otis  E.  Mace, 
William  U.  Matson.  George  W.  Munson,  Edgar  A.  Phaneuf.  *J. 
Philip  Pierce.  Eben  H.  Rice.  Carl  F.  Sage.  Trueman  L.  Sanderson. 
Nicholas  S.  Sculos.  George  M.  Siegel,  George  W.  Smith,  Michael 

C.  Sodano.  *Herbert  A.  Stewart.  Robert  D.  Taylor.  Henry  H. 
Terry.  *A.  Francis  Townsend.  Prescott  K.  Turner.  John  B. 
Tuthill.  Oliver  R:  Underbill.  Jr..  Charles  B.  Walker.  Carroll  N. 
Whitaker,  Jrving  S.  White.  Robert  S.  Williamson.  Charles  E. 
Woodward 

CLASS  OF  1932 

N.  Albert  Anderson.  Emanuel  S.  Athanas.  Arthur  W.  Backgren. 
Robert  I.  Belmont.  Fred  A.  Bickford,  Walter  J.  Brosnan,  Edwin  S. 
Brown.  *Dana  B.  Carleton.  Theodore  S.  Chmura.  Marcel  A.  E. 
Delys.  Jan  W.  Dowgielewicz.  Emile  R.  Dube,  Ernest  W.  Foster, 
David  Goldrosen,  Earle  E.  Green.  Dr.  William  E.  Hanson.  Elliott 

D.  Jones.  Ambrose  Kennedy,  C.  Stanley  Knight,  Howard  P. 
Lekberg.  Eino  O.  Leppanen.  Lester  N.  Lintner.  Linn  M. 
Lockwood.  Raymond  H.  Lynch.  Donald  J.  McGee,  William  J. 
Minnick.  Norman  Monks.  Paul  E.  Nelson,  John  Nizamoff.  Olof  W. 
Nyquist.  Constantine  J.  G.  Or/anos.  Leonard  H.  Peters,  Jr..  Edwin 
L.  PoJJard.  *Henry  B.  Pratt.  Russell  D.  Purrington,  Donald  W. 
Putnam.  Charles  S.  Reasby.  David  Rice.  Ellis  R.  Spaulding. 
*Francis  M.  Sullivan.  John  fi.  Tinker.  Edwin  C.  Tucker.  Curtis  M. 
While.  FriHlerick  F.  Whiteford.  Caw  C.  Wilson.  Clelan  G.  Winn 


CLASS  OF  1933 

Edward  K.  Alien.  Jr..  Alexander  Alves.  *William  A.  Anderson, 
Waldo  E  Bass.  I  Alfred  Bicknell.  Robert  W.  Blake.  Hugo  P. 
Borgofti.  Charles  S.  Brewer.  Allen  L.  Brownlee.  Vincent  F.  Buell. 
Leo  Burwick.  R.  Normun  Clark.  Edward  G.  Conway,  Guy  A. 
Cummings.  Jr..  George  Davagian.  Thomas  E.  Decker.  Arthur  H. 
Dixon.  Frank  F.  Dodge,  Dr.  Herman  W.  Dorn.  /.  Roy  Driscoll. 
John  J.  Dwyer.  Frank  L.  Eaton.  Jr..  Robert  E.  Ferguson. 
Aider  H.  FuJJer.  Robert  W.  Fulton.  Kenneth  E.  GJeason.  Gilbert 
U.  Gusta/son.  Harold  A.  Hammer.  Linval  D.  Harvey.  Donald  W. 
Hasidns.  John  A.  Henrickson.  Leighton  Jackson.  Harry  T.  Jensen. 
CarJ  L  Johnson.  Carroll  M.  Johnson.  Edwin  L.  Johnson.  *Aram 
Kalenian.  John  C.  Kee/e.  Jr..  Albert  L.  LaJiberte.  Harvey  F. 
Lorenzen,  George  W.  Lyman.  Richard  T.  Merrell.  George  W. 
NicoJetti.  Sumner  A.  Norton.  Alfred  G.  Parker.  H.  Edward 
Perkins.  Jr..  W.  Harvey  Perreauit,  Robert  G.  Peterson.  Frederick 
M.  PottiBT,  Wesley  B.  Reed.  FrankJin  fi.  Roberts.  Warren  C. 
Saitmarsh,  *John  G.  L.  Shabeck.  Jr..  Carl  G.  Silverberg.  Arthur  E. 
Smith.  *Ghestr;  R.  SpieJvogeJ,  *Sumner  B.  Sweetser,    Jeremiah 
H.  \'o/i.  Ralph  J.  Voigt  Gordon  R.  Whittum.  Charles  Walk.  Alton 
B.  Wvman 

CLASS  OF  1934 

*Bertil  II  Anderson.  Howard  W.  Atkins,  Edward  I.   Barrett, 
Hamld  B  Bell.  Kenneth  E.  Bennett,  fohn  A.  Birch,  Ercd<-n<  h  E 
Botverman,  Warren  R.  Bums.  U'llliom  E.  Burpee,  I.  Boyiston 
Cnni pi* -II.  Allan  R.  Catheron,  Blakslee  1/  Colby,  Anthony  C 

..   Ernest  M  Crowell.  *Merritl  E,  Cutting,  Chester  G 
DahJstrom,  vVarren  II  Davenport,  Charles  S.  Dayton,  fr., 
'Dwighi  I  DwineU.  Charles  j  Egan,  Joseph  E.  Flanagan,  1/  . 
Henry  H  Franklin,  'Charles  S  Frary,  b  .  lU-ilint  /    Cole. 
Robert  s  Grand,  G  Donald  Greenwood,  WillardP.  Greenwood, 
I'aul  S  Grierson,  ]t .  Joseph  Haddad,  CarJ  Hammarstrom, 
Theodore  F  Hammett.  Curtis  A.  Hedler,  Russell  p  Hook,  Stephen 
/    Hreusik,  Clovion  E  Hunt.  It  .  George  Katista,  Fohn  //  Keenan, 
Waltei  M   Kurt/   R  Custof  Larson,  Luthei  C  l.eavitt.  Edward  R 
Markerl   f . 7 1 f j i . •  roy.  John  A   McMahon.  William  E. 

William  I'  Mitnik,  llaiohl  Narcus,  Shephard  R  Palmer,  b  . 
Porta,  Albert  T  Phelps,  Theodore  Post,  Louis  /'/ess   v 
Thomas  Ratkiewich,  b     Richard  W  Rhodes.  Dr  Lli/oli  R 
Romanoff   fames  V  Rowlej    'Everett  /    Sellew.  /(   Raymond 

LovelJ  Smith,  It  .  I  Russell  Smith,  Warren  S  Snow, 
Philip  W  Stafford,  H  Victor  Sten beck,  George  A  Stevens. 
Howard  /    SlockwelJ  R   Lincoln  Stone.  Paul  1  Sullivan,  Michael 
fijian.  Donald  C  Vibbei   Gordon  P  U'lut*  omb.  Hmvnnl  ,\ 
V\7nttufn.  Humph  re)  I  Wrin 


CLASS  OF  1935 

Anonymous,  Jn  Memory  of  Marcus  Abelson.  *Edward  J. 
Abendschein.  George  W.  Axelby.  George  P.  Beaulieu.  Carl  G. 
Bergstrom.  Walter  A.  Blau.  ]r..  Karl  H.  Bohaker.  Joseph 
P.  Buckley.  *B.  Austin  Coates.  Theron  M.  Cole.  C.  Marshall 
Dann.  Maurice  E.  Day.  Phillip  S.  Dean.  WiUiam  A.  Dempsey. 
Samuel  D.  Ehrlich.  Joseph  Glasser,  Martin  B.  Graham.  Raymor 
O.  Granger.  James  J.  Gushaw.  Preston  H.  Hadley,  Jr.,  Allan  F. 
Hardy.  Jr..  Francis  L.  Harrington,  James  K.  Healy.  J.  Russell 
Hemenway.  Eugene  S.  Henning,  Herbert  N.  Hoffman,  Leonard 
Humphrey.  Jr..  Wendell  D.  Jewell.  Joseph  A.  Johnson,  Jr., 
Osmond  L.  Kinney.  Paul  S.  Krantz.  Theodore  R.  Latour,  Roger 
Lawfon.  Herbert  V.  Leckie,  Jr.,  Harold  A.  LeDuc,  Lester  L.  Lib 
C.  Gordon  Uncoln.  Kenneth  A.  Linell.  Arvo  A.  Luoma.  Frederic 
W.  McJntyre.  Jr..  Theodore  D.  McKinley.  Thomas  F.  McNulty, 
Richard  P.  Merriam,  *Raymond  L.  Moeller.  John  J.  Molloy, 
Homer  R.  Morrison,  Roland  L.  Nims,  Howard  E.  NordJund.   •  I 
Verner  R.  Olson.  Andrew  W.  Palm,  William  C.  Potter.  Charles 
Puffer.  Raymond  J.  Quenneville.  Lionel  C.  Reed.  Emerson  J. 
Robinson.  William  J.  Samborski.  Victor  F.  P.  Sepavich,  Dr.  Paul 
R.  Shepler,  Dr.  Irving  Skeist.  Charles  S.  Smith,  M.  Kent  Smith, 
Memory  of  Kingston  C.  Smith,  David  V.  Smyth,  Eric  W. 
Soderberg,  Raymond  F.  Starrett,  William  R.  Steur.  Frederick  V 
Swan.  Jr..  Roy  O.  Swenson.  Gordon  S.  Swift,  J.  James  Tasillo. 
Robert  B.  Taylor.  Harold  K.  Vickery,  Max  H.  Voigt.  Harvey  W] 
White.  Plummer  WHey.  William  M.  Wilson.  William  E.  Wymajl 

CLASS  OF  1936 

Harry  T.  Anderson,  Jr..  Edward  W.  Armstrong,  Leo  T.  Benoit. 
Carl  P.  Benson.  Walter  F.  Beth.  Carleton  W.  Bordon,  *John  R.I 
Brand.  Harold  S.  Burr.  Allen  C.  Chase.  George  L.  Chase.  Norml 
V.  Coyle,  Gordon  H.  Creamer,  *Earl  M.  Curtis.  Walter  G. 
Dahlstrom.  Donald  L.  Edmunds.  Alfred  C.  Ekberg.  C.  James 
Efhier.  Robert  Fowler.  Jr..  George  W.  Fuller,  Edward  K. 
Gladding.  *Scott  K.  Goodwin.  Martin  C.  Gowdey.  J.  Edward 
Guild.  Joseph  R.  Hastings,  Harold  F.  Henrickson.  L.  Brewster  1 
Howard.  Richard  S.  Howes,  Leonard  W.  Johnson.  Richard  W.  1 
Keenan,  N.  Robert  Levine.  *William  C.  Maine.  Dr..  John  T. 
McGrath,  H.  Foster  McRell.  Jr.,  *David  M.  Morley.  John  J. 
O'Donnell.  James  W.  Phelps,  Harold  N.  Pierson,  Michael  C. 
Ralh's,  George  E.  Rocheford.  Jacob  A.  Sacks.  Alan  F.  Shepardsq 
George  A.  Sherwin.  Burton  H.  Simons.  Ben /am  in  H.  Smith.  Jr.,  I 
Dr.  Stedman  W.  Smith,  John  H.  Thompson.  Arthur  D.  Tripp,  Jn 
Abbott  D.  Wilcox.  Hewitt  E.  Wilson.  George  P.  Wood.  Theodon 
C.  Wyman.  Frederick  L.  Yeo 

CLASS  OF  1937 

*Erving  Arundale.  Kingston  E.  Atwood.  Philip  G.  Atwood. 
*Lawrence  K.  Barber.  Donald  L.  Beebe.  William  S.  Bushell. 
*Wiiliam  E.  Carew,  Jr.,  John  R.  Casey.  William  C.  Clark.  John 
Covell.  Jr..  Harold  N.  Cox.  Jr..  Gordon  F.  Crowther.  Henry  C. 
Dearborn,  Gordon  C.  Edwards.  William  P.  Frawley,  *Paul  R. 
Glazier,  *Laurence  F.  Granger.  William  J.  Harmon.  *Francis  i 
Harvey.  Daniel  |.  Hastings.  Jr.,  John  Higginson,  Wesley  P. 
Holbrook,  Ralph  H.  Holmes.  Harris  W.  Howland.  *A.  Hallier 
Johnson,  Carl  E.  Larson,  Jr..  Pro/.  Ray  K.  Linsley.  Richard  J. 
Lvman.  *Francis  H.  Marchand.  Maxwell  E.  Marshall,  John  F. 
McGinnis.  Capt.  Thomas  W.  McKnight.  USN,  Rolland  W. 
McMurphv.  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  James  F.  Moore.  Thomas  M. 
Nolan,  Howard  W.  Osborn,  Carl  S.  Otto.  James  B.  Patch.  Jr.. 
Chandler  P.  Pierce.  A.  Hamilton  Powell.  Foster  C.  Powers.  W. 
Robert  Powers.  William  Price.  Richard  A.  Prokop.  Oliver  H. 
Rome.  Roger  E.  B.  Randall.  Robert  S.  Rich.  Raymond  W.  Schul 
Morrison  Smith.  Paul  J.  Stone.  Vincent  O.  Sfromberg.  Robert  F. 
Webster,  Talbot  F.  Wentworth.  M.  Blair  Whifcomb.  John  B. 
Willard,  Dunn  W.  Woodward.  William  W.  Worthley.  Leonard 
Voting 

CLASS  OF  1938 

Robert  R  Abbe,  Robert  A.  Babcock,  Paul  H.  Bergstrom,  Euger 
Bertozzi,  b  .  /  Harper  Blaisdell.  Jr.,  *Charles  (.'.  Bonin,  */• 
Randolph  Buck,  Frederick  I  Burg,  "'Richard  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  Geol 
R  Cattermole,  Donald  B.  (,'JniL  ^Richard  W.  (,'loues.  Andrew 
Constant,  Richard  H,  (.'ourt.  *Leo  /.  Cronin,  Robert  P.  Day,   \/l 
I    Delude,  //..  'Alien  R,  Deschere,  linhaid  J.  Donovan,  *fiich< 
M  i.lhott.  Robert  A,  Evans,  Edmund  M.  Fenner,  Oscar  A. 
Fick,  1/  .  *\rii  A   Fitzgerald,  Norman  M  Gamache,  Thomas  Bi 
Graham,  Perry  F  Grenon,  Allen  H,  CridU'v.  b  .  Ernest  E. 
Gusta/son,  Philip  K   lloflioum .  Howard  vV  Haynes,  Werner^ 
Hrld.  vVilliam  I)  Hoicomb,  Pro/,  Donald  W.  Howe.  Jr.,  Robert 
Karakoosh   Miint  I  Kuilas,  M  Leonard  Kuniholm,  Ent  L, 

irge  Mollis.  Daniel  G.  Mazur,  George  W.  McKen 
William  I    O'Brien,  Robert  E  I'mkcr.  Sulnt'v  F.  Perkins,  Jr., 


1  F.  Pethybridge,  Dr.  Arnet  L.  Powell,  Maurice  Pressman, 
'm  G.  Safford.  Edward  A.  Sawtell,  Warren  H  Schafer. 
R.  Seaver,  David  G.  SJovin.  Robert  L.  SomerviJJe.  Joseph 
iniunas,  Robert  C.  Stickle,  Dana  D.  Stratton,  Richard  M. 

Francis  B.  Swenson,  *Robert  M.  Taft,  Edward  J.  Traynor, 
'.  Vaughan.  Murray  C.  Wilson,  Francis  L.  Witkege 

S  OF  1939 

;r  L.  Abei,  William  R.  Ahern,  Charles  H.  Amidon,  Jr., 
V.  Bergstrom,  Henry  S.  Blauvelt,  Thomas  G.  Bourne, 
\  Boyd,  Harrison  K.  Brown,  Roger  W.  Bryson,  *Dr.  Donaid 
ness,  *Wiider  R.  Carson,  *Malcolm  R.  Chandler,  Aiian  H. 
Arthur  N  Cooley,  E.  Bruce  Crabtree,  Edward  C.  Dench. 
3  T.  Dervos,  Prof.  Howard  Duchacek,  Ralph  E.  Dudley, 
i  E.  Feiker.  Jr..  Chester  I,  Ferguson.  Jr..  DonaJd  L.  Fogg, 
.  Foimsbee.  George  C.  Graham.  Jr..  Jacob  J.  Hagopian, 
Harvey,  Jr.,  Carl  K.  Hitchon.  */ohn  G.  Hollick,  *DonoJd  E. 
■.  John  W.  Hughes.  Haroid  W.  Humphrey,  Jr.,  *David  H. 
toger  L.  If/land,  Gieason  W.  Jewett,  Thomas  S.  Johnson. 
!  B.  KapJan.  Oiva  J.  Kama,  *CarJ  A.  Keyser,  Edwin  L. 
Dhiiip  A.  Kulin,  John  H.  Lancaster.  Albert  M.  Lavan,  CarJ 
vin.  C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  Ernest  N.  L/unggren,  Robert  S. 
*Arthur  H.  MaJJon.  Douglas  W.  Marden,  Robert  W. 
,  David  McEwan.  Keith  E.  McKeeman,  Ward  D.  Messimer, 
B.  Mirick,  John  P.  Moiony,  Robert  A.  Morse,  Robert  C. 
y,  Albert  A.  Nims,  Jr.,  Elmer  E.  Nutting,  C.  Kenneth  Olson, 
J.  O'Malley,  Bradford  W.  Ordway.  Norman  A.  Packard, 
Peavey,  Frederick  S.  Pyne,  Albert  J.  Rasiavsky.  Edward  J. 
.  John  T.  Rushton.  Donald  E.  Ryan.  *Billie  A.  Schmidt, 
n  W.  Stewart.  *Louis  E.  Stratton,  Gordon  L.  Thompson. 
3S  W.  Thulin,  Prof.  William  B.  Wadsworth,  Robert  F. 
Richard  B.  Wilson.  George  W.  Yule.  Robert  P.  Zickell 

S  OF  1940 

i  H.  Allen,  Eric  S.  Anderson,  Howard  L.  Anderson, 
i  E.  Bates,  Max  Bialer.  George  S.  Bingham.  Wilfred  T. 
.  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell.  Dr.  Ronald  S.  Brand,  William  S. 
,  Harwood  C.  Burdett,  Prof.  Malcolm  S.  Burton,  Edward  D. 
Frank  J.  Delany.  John  H.  Dower,  Robert  E.  Dunklee.  Jr.,  H. 
Erickson,  *Raymond  J.  Forkey,  *Kenneth  C  Fraser.  Carl  F. 

Jr..  Clyde  L.  Gerald,  W.  Clark  Goodchild,  Jr.,  Willard  T. 
''Frank  G.  Gustafson,  *Joseph  M.  Halloran,  Jr.,  Franklin  D. 

*Robert  W.  Hewey,  Robert  E.  Higgs,  *Albert  E. 
.  Jr..  Fritz  E.  Johanson.  Benedict  K.  Kaveckas,  P.  Warren 
?,  Dr.  Stanley  W.  Kimball.  Arthur  R.  Koerber,  Norman  U. 
te,  Carl  W.  Larson,  Vernon  J.  Liberty,  *Russell  A. 
Jr..  Judson  D.  Lowd,  *Noel  R.  Maleady,  Zareh  Martin, 
i  G.  Mayer.  Kenneth  H.  McClure.  Philip  E.  Meany, 
~  Meiselman.  Richard  T.  Messinger,  Frederick  B.  Miller. 

A.  Morin.  Herbert  F.  Morse,  Peter  A.  Muto,  Robert  G. 
i.  Henry  J.  Paulsen.  *John  H.  Peters  JJJ,  Bruce  G.  Potter, 
i  E.  Ross,  Col.  Richard  E.  Ryan,  Richard  F.  Scharmann, 

id  B.  Shlora,  S.  Merrill  Skeist,  Everett  P.  Smith,  Joseph  V. 
ski.  Walter  H.  Sodano,  Francis  E.  Stone,  *Lawrence  R. 
i.  Pro/.  Robinson  M.  Swift,  Harry  Terkanian,  James  I. 
Dn.  Russell  B.  Vaughn,  Frederic  S.  Wackerbarth,  Dr. 
;1  Wales.  Randall  Whitehead.  David  B.  Zipser 

S  OF  1941 

i  L.  Bacheider,  Albert  G.  Beilos,  K.  Blair  Benson.  Carl  W. 
3r.  Jr..  William  Bosyk.  Earle  K.  Boyd,  Francis  J.  Boyle, 

B.  Brautigam.  Dr.  Irving  A.  Breger.  Paul  A.  Carullo, 

rick  B.  Chamberlin,  Alexander  S.  Chodakowski,  Sidney  W. 
Dr.  George  A.  Cowan,  Francis  W.  Crowley.  Robert  E. 
Donald  S.  Denio.  Thomas  R.  d'Errico,  Kenneth  R.  Dresser, 
imes  C.  Ferguson,  George  F.  George,  Lloyd  E.  Greenwood, 
i  T.  Gurney.  Marvin  Handleman,  John  T  Haran.  Col. 
B.  Harding.  James  H.  Hinman.  James  J.  Hoar,  Jr.,  Charles 
bel.  F.  Harold  Holland,  Jr.,  Stephen  Hopkins,  Stephen 
I,  John  S.  Ingham,  Walter  B.  Kennedy.  Jr..  Harry  D. 
3y,  *Norman  G.  Klaucke,  Melvin  H.  Knapp,  Victor  A. 
.  Thomas  R.  Lewis,  Jr.,  Col.  Frank  R.  Lindberg,  Alvin  A. 
tester  P.  Luke,  Stanley  J.  Majka.  James  E.  McGinnis.  Dr. 
in  Medwin,  Robert  A.  Muir.  HiJIiard  W.  Paige.  Henry 
Donald  F.  Palmer.  Jr.,  *RusseJI  W.  Parks,  George  K.  Peck, 
ird  M.  Potter.  Richard  G.  Ramsdell.  *William  C. 
dson,  Lt.  Col.  Harold  E.  Robertson.  Jr..  William  P. 
ns.  Charles  0.  Smith.  *Donald  E.  Smith,  John  J.  Sugrue. 
sre  J.  Sydor.  George  F.  Taylor,  Robert  W.  TuIIer,  Anton  J. 
Sr..  Joseph  W.  Whitaker.  Jr..  Leonard  H.  White,  Berkeley 
ns.  Jr..  *Dr.  Alfred  E.  Winslow.  F.  William  Ziegler 


CLASS  OF  1942 

Jonathan  B.  Allured.  E.  Curtis  Ambler,  William  L.  Ames.  Prof. 
Frederick  A.  Anderson,  George  C.  Andreopoulos,  Homer  R.  Arey. 
Albert  S.  Ashmead,  Frank  Aspin,  *John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr.,  Robert 
M.  Bendetf,  Delbert  A.  Betterley.  *Gerald  J.  Bibeault,  Joseph  W. 
Blaine.  Jr..  Lester  A.  Bolton,  Jr.,  Ronald  J.  Borrup,  Pro/.  Roy  F. 
Bourgault.  Charles  E.  Bradford.  Herbert  E.  Brockert,  Philip  L. 
Camp.  Robert  C  Chaffe,  Jr.,  Charles  W.  Charles,  Robert  A. 
Clark,  David  M.  Coleman.  Harold  L.  Crane,  Harold  E.  Crosier,  Jr., 
Wilbur  H  Day.  *Paul  C  Disario,  Jr.,  James  Fernane,  Ralph  G. 
Fritch,  Clinton  A.  Gerlach,  Haskell  Ginns.  Herbert  M.  Goodman. 
Richard  G.  Guenter,  Warren  G.  Harding,  Philip  J.  Hastings. 
Edward  A.  Hebditch,  Robert  L.  Holden,  *Peter  P.  Holz,  James  D. 
Houlihan,  Edward  H.  Jacobs,  Richard  H.  Kimball,  Jr.,  Elmer  E. 
Larrabee,  Raymond  F.  MacKay.  Harvey  W.  Maurice,  A.  Cline 
Mendelsohn,  Frederic  C.  Merriam,  *F.  Gordon  Merrill, 
Alexander  Mikulich,  Harris  C.  Miller,  David  F.  Nyquist.  Francis 
J.  Oneglia,  Rodney  G.  Paige,  Charles  H.  Parker,  *Robert  W. 
Pease,  Charles  P.  Powell,  Russell  C.  Proctor,  Jr..  Anthony  V. 
Rainis,  *Gordon  H.  Raymond,  *James  F.  Robjent,  *John  E. 
Rogerson,  Adolph  A.  Salminen,  *Elton  J.  Sceggel,  Robert  W. 
Searles,  Leonard  I.  Smith,  George  H.  Sprague,  Jr.,  S.  Robert 
Swift,  Victor  H.  Thulin,  Victor  Tolis,  *Noel  Totti,  Jr.,  Richard  J. 
Vaughn,  J.  Richard  Weiss,  Jr.,  Ralph  D.  Whitmore.  Jr.,  Samuel 
W.  Williams,  Jr..  Arthur  D.  Wilson,  Norman  A.  Wilson,  John  E. 
Wood,  William  C.  Woods,  Jr.,  Paul  C.  Yankauskas 

CLASS  OF  1943 

Everett  J.  Ambrose,  Jr.,  Dr.  Carroll  O.  Bennett,  Robert  A. 
Bierweiler.  *Harold  W.  Brandes,  Hugh  M.  Brautigam,  Jr.,  Nelson 
M.  Calkins,  Jr..  *Edwin  C.  Campbell.  Warren  H.  Chaffee, 
* Jackson  L:  Durkee,  *Lee  P.  Farnsworth,  Walter  J.  Farrell.  Jr.,  *J. 
Perry  Fraser,  George  W.  Golding,  Jr.,  *Robert  E.  Gordon.  Philip  J. 
Gow,  Arthur  V.  Grazulis.  Colin  H.  Handforth,  William  S.  C. 
Henry,  *Leonard  Hershoff.  *Franklin  K.  Holbrook,  Calvin  B. 
Holden,  Dr.  Chester  E.  Holmlund.  John  W.  Huckins,  Lt.  Col. 
Charles  A.  Jenkins,  Jr.,  Joseph  M.  Jolda,  Joseph  F.  Kawzowicz, 
*Averill  S.  Keith,  *Friend  H,  Kierstead,  Jr.,  *Victor  E.  Kohman, 
Arthur  E.  Lindroos,  Edward  A.  Lipovsky,  James  L.  Loomis,  Jr., 
*Behrends  Messer.  Jr.,  Robert  H.  Montgomery,  Jr..  S.  Bailey 
Norton,  Jr.,  Robert  A.  Painter.  James  H.  Parliman,  Theodore  A. 
Pierson  111,  Dr.  Edward  H.  Peterson,  Alex  Petrides,  *James  J. 
Pezza,  Leon  H.  Rice,  Richard  S.  Robinson,  *Donald  H.  Russell, 
Alan  N.  Sanderson,  Francis  C.  Santom,  *Richard  B.  Shaw,  Ralph 
L.  Smith.  Jr.,  Bruce  E.  Smyth,  *Dr.  Raymond  W.  Southworth. 
Pro/.  George  E.  Stannard.  Thomas  C  Sweeney,  Frank  Szel. 
*William  W.  Tunnicliffe.  Alfred  Voedisch.  Jr.,  Pierre  Volkmar, 
William  M.  Walker,  Rollin  M.  Wheeler.  Edward  C.  White,  Burton 
G.  Wright.  Anthony  J.  Yakutis,  Francis  J.  Yorke 

CLASS  OF  1944 

*Gordon  C  Anderson,  Herbert  Asher,  Francis  L.  Barry.  C. 
Edward  Bean.  *John  A.  Bjork.  *Norman  S.  Blodgett.  Philip  P. 
Brown.  Robert  C.  Brown,  Donald  E.  Buser,  *Richard  A.  Carson, 
Dr.  Kenneth  D.  Cashin.  Charles  S.  Cooper,  Lee  G.  Cordier. 
Benjamin  B.  D'Ewart,  Jr.,  Vladimir  T.  Dimitroff,  Jr.,  Irving  James 
Donahue,  Jr.,  Peter  C  Dooley.  Jr.,  Richard  P.  Dunn,  Nicholas  N. 
Economou,  Roger  G.  Edwards.  Jr.,  Robert  E.  Fay,  George  L. 
Fetherolf.  Jr..  David  M.  Field.  John  R.  Fleming.  Capt.  Alan  C. 
Gault.  Irving  B.  Gerber,  Donald  J.  Gilrein,  Bruce  D.  Hainsworth. 
Earl  F.  Harris,  Raymond  E.  Herzog,  Harrison  E.  Holbrook,  Jr., 
Leonard  Israel.  Everett  M.  Johnson.  James  E.  Johnson,  Jr..  Dr. 
Daniel  Koval,  *Erling  Lagerholm,  Alfred  F.  Larkin,  Jr.,  Lloyd  G. 
Mann,  *Vernon  A.  McLaskey,  John  P.  Newton,  Jr.,  Douglas  G. 
Noiles,  *John  W.  Patterson,  C.  Raymond  Peterson.  William  E. 
Powers,  Jr.,  Paul  1.  Pressel,  Manuel  J.  Queijo,  William  L. 
Raymond,  Jr..  L.  Howard  Reagan.  Lynwood  C.  Rice,  *John  J. 
Robinson,  Miles  I.  Roth,  Richard  W.  Russell,  George  W.  Sargent, 
Herbert  E.  Sheldon,  Arthur  L.  Stowe.  Charles  P.  Stowell,  Warner 
H.  Tabor.  Charles  C.  Tanona,  Christopher  T  Terpo,  Robert  M. 
Twitchell.  *John  G.  Underbill,  Franklyn  Williams.  *Kimball  R. 
Woodbury 


CLASS  OF  1945 

John  W.  A/bus.  Paul  K.  Bacher,  Dr.  Frank  C.  Baginski,  Edwin  G. 
Baldwin.  Edward  C.  Berndt,  Jr..  *  Albert  C.  Berry.  Joseph  R. 
Blouin.  James  E.  Breed.  Bradford  Brightman.  Jr.,  George  T. 
Brown.  Robert  M.  Buck.  Elso  R.  Caponi.  *Dr.  Joseph  D. 
Carrabino.  Robert  G.  Chaplick.  James  J.  Clerkin.   Jr..   *Paul  M. 
Craig.  Jr..  *Stanley  R.  Cross.  Jr..  Edward  J.  Dolan.  Robert  E.  Duffy. 
Harris  J.  Du/resne.  Robert  M.  Edgerly.  *Richard  S.  Fitts.  Warren 
H.  Fitzer.  *Harold  Fleit.  Prof.  John  W.  Fondahl.  Anson  G  Fyier, 
Howard  D.  Gerring.  Irving  Goldstein.  William  C.  Grant.  Jr.. 
George  W.  Gregory.  Jr.,  John  T.  E.  Hegeman,  Philip  A.  Henning, 
John  P.  Hyde.  Russell  E.  Jenkins.  Edwin  S.  Johanson,  Charles  H. 
Johnson.  *FrankJin  S.  June.  George  /.  Kennedy.  Prof.  Owen  W. 
Kennedy.  Jr..  Paul  N.  Kokuhs.  Dr.  Ernest  R.  Kretzmer.  Robert  W. 
Lewis.  *Eugene  C.  Logan.  Robert  W.  Lotz.  John  B.  McMaster. 
*Charles  A.  Morse.  Jr..  Robert  M.  Neumeister.  Hugo  L.  Norige, 
Roger  N.  Perry.  Jr..  Robert  E.  Powers.  Roger  P.  Roberge.  Harry 
W.  Sandberg.  Robert  E.  Scott.  James  J.  Shea.  Elbridge  M.  Smith. 
Frank  /.  Stefanov.  Robert  A.  Stengard.  Rev.  Edward  J.  Swanson. 
Phih'p  V.  Tarr.  Jr..  Stanley  B.  Thomson.  *Warren  H.  Willard 

CLASS  OF  1946 

Richard  H.  Anschutz.  *Robert  C.  Appenzeller.  Theodore  A. 
Balaska.  John  H.  Barrett.  Jr..  Frank  L.  Baumgardner.  Carl  W. 
Bergman.  Jr..  John  A.  Bernier.  William  R.  Bingham.  Francis  L. 
BJiven.  Cushing  C.  Bozenhard.  Melvin  H.  BredahJ.  Roger  M. 
Broucek.  Richard  C.  Brown.  Roger  H.  Brown.  Robert  F.  Budge, 
James  Bush.  Jr..  George  Button  11.  Rodney  S.  Chase.  George  E. 
Comstock  III.  Joseph  J.  Conroy,  Jr..  Truman  S.  Dayton.  Bruce  H. 
Edwards.  Joseph  O.  Faneuf.  Alpheus  M.  Farnsworth.  DonaJd  A. 
Ferguson.  Abraham  A.  Gammal.  Theodore  E.  Gazda.  *Howard  L. 
Gehn.  John  J.  GoeiJer,  Walter  J.  Grimala.  Prof.  William  R. 
Grogan.  John  N.  Hartwell.  Gordon  A.  Hollis.  Garabed 
Hovhanesian.  Robert  E.  Hull.  Robert  S.  Jacobson,  Dr.  J.  Myron 
Johnson.  *Joseph  H.  Johnson.  Jr..  *WiJbur  C.  Jones,  August  C. 
Kellermann.  Alan  Kennedy.  Rev.  John  H.  Knibb.  Jr..  Richard  C. 
Lawton.  John  Lee.  CaJvin  F.  Long.  Kenneth  A.  Lyons.  *James  H. 
MaJoney.  Jr..  Frederick  W.  Marvin.  *Frank  L.  Mazzone.  Peter  M. 
McKinJey.  John  C.  Meade.  John  C.  Metzger.  George  F.  Meyer,  Jr., 
Charles  B.  Miczek.  FJoyd  T  MiiJer,  Malcolm  A.  Morrison, 
WiJJiam  F.  Murphy,  Jr..  *Dr.  Peter  B.  Myers.  DonaJd  L.  Nichols. 
Edmund  S.  Oshetsky.  *Norman  W.  Padden,  Julius  A.  Palley. 
Edward  A.  Pendleton.  Carl  B.  Pritchett.  Jr..  Manuel  Renasco. 
Daniel  J.  Rice.  *Albert  E.  Rockwood.  Jr..  John  E.  Runninger.  EJmer 
S.  Sachse.  George  W.  Schott.  Robert  W.  Schramm,  Carl  F. 
Simon.  Jr..  Edward  H.  Smith,  DonaJd  A  Soorian,  James  L. 
Sullivan,  David  W.  Swicker.  Robert  S.  TambJyn.  Robert  C. 
Taylor.  *Dr.  Roland  W.  lire.  Jr..  Clay  B.  Wade,  *Davis  S. 
Watson.  CharJes  F.  Whitcomb.  Malcolm  K.  White,  AdeJbert  W. 
Whitman.  John  L.  Wilki.  Jr..  John  E.  WiJson.  Alfred  J.  Wood, 
David  J.  Wright.  Fioyd  A.  Wyczalek 

CLASS  OF  1947 

W.  Wesley  Ballard.  Jr..  *Robert  E.  Begley.  George  J.  Bernard.  Jr.. 
Henry  J.  Bove.  Carroll  E.  Burtner,  Dr.  Morrel  H.  Cohen.  Harold 
L.  Cole.  Wilfred  L.  Derocher.  Jr..  Robert  Fletcher.  Leo  W.  F. 
Geary.  *Allan  Glazer,  Robert  H.  Hinckley.  George  E.  Kent.  Jr.. 
Daniel  W.  Knoll.  Raymond  J.  La/erriere,  Edward  J.  Lemieux. 
Daniel  G.  Lewis.  Jr..  Robert  C.  Mark.  Robert  W.  MiiJer,  Teddy  J. 
Morawski.  Edward  C.  Perry,  Jr.,  Dr.  William  J.  Rice.  Samuel 
Ringei.  Prof.  Yozbeck  T.  Sarkees,  Edward  F.  Supple,  Edward  T. 

/.  Kenneth  H.  Truesdell.  Miiford  R.  Van  Dusen,  John  H. 
Williams.  Jr..  William  A.  Williams,  Vincent  A.  Zike 

CLASS  OF  1948 

Robert  H  Adorns.  Druid  L.  Anthony.  Edward  H.  Coburn,  Jr., 
'Samuel  W  Cocks,  John  J  Concordia,  'William  D.  Coulopouios, 
John  F  Coyne.  Howard  I  Dember,  G  Edward  Desoulniers. 

Norman  1.    Ihegoli.  P.  Robert  Iheleile.  I.eioy  (',    Donne.  Jr.. 

Edmund  C.  Dowse,  U  .  Edmund  I  Eager,  Willard  E.  Estey,  Paul  E, 

'\{ii\,f\\  (,  Ferguson,  *NielI.  Pisnman,  "Frederick  A. 
Gammon*,.  Albert  S  Goldberg,  Malcolm  <•  Gordon,  George 
Goshgarian,  Harold  R  Guercl,  Sameer  S  Hassan,  Hubert  W. 
Henderson,  Carl  P  Henhfield,  Lawrence  F   Hine,  Prank  S 
Holby.  PaulC  Halden,  'Richard  K.  Home,  'Robert  II  Houghton, 
Robert  E  Hubley,  '.  Earle  Johnson,  //  .  Otto  Kern,  Jr.,  Dr. 
Gershon  Kulin.  Francis  X  Lambert  'Lynwood  W  Lentell,  Oi 
Robert  M  Lerner,  Charles  '.  Loveridge,  h  .  Lemuel  A.  W. 
Manchester,  *7ames  G  McKeman,  Albert  J  Merlini,  Lawrence 
/■   Minnick,  'Allen  M  Mintz,  Richard  W  Morse,  Robert  / 
NoweB,  Raymond  A  Peabody.1i    Pro/  Arthui  L  Pike,  Clark  L 
Poland   "Edward  /  Powers,  'Charles  D  Rehrig,  Alan  K  Riedel, 
Stanley  i    Rom  Kenneth  E  Scott.  Richard  A  Seagrave   'Daniel 


H.  Sheingold.  *Bernard  Siegel.  Dr.  Albert  H.  Soloway.  Presc(j 
A.  Stevens.  *AI/red  C  Syiek,  Russell  D.  Turner,  Romeo  J. 
Ventres,  David  K.  Weiner.  John  S.  Wolanin,  Jr. 

CLASS  OF  1949 

James  S.  Adams,  Charles  C  Allen,  *WaJter  D.  Allen,  Jr.,  Dea 
Amidon.  *Chester  L.  Anderson,  Jr.,  Matthew  M.  Babinski,  Ro 
A.  Bareiss.  Dr.  Richard  A.  Bartlett.  *Paul  H.  Beaudry,  John  } 
Beckwith,  Walter  L.  Beckwith,  Jr..  *Karl  R.  Berggren,  Jr.,  Fro 
J.  Bigda.  Gordon  S.  Brandes,  Raymond  A.  Brandoli,  Lawrence 
Brautigam,  Fred  J.  Brennan,  Eugene  S.  Briggs.  *Richard  W 
Brown.  PhiJip  G.  Buffinton,  Allen  W.  Campbell.  Jr.,  Dr.  Franc, 
Carini,  George  W.  Carlson,  *Walter  J.  Charow,  Howard  R. 
Cheney.  Jr.,  Robert  W.  Cook,  *Thomas  J.  Coonan  111,  Richard 
Coughlin.  George  Crompton  III,  Earl  R.  Cruff.  Paul  D.  Curran 
Peter  J.  Dalton.  Jr.',  Wellen  G.  Davison,  Walter  G.  Dick.  Arthu 
H.  Dinsmoor.  Edward  H.  Dion,  Paul  R.  Dulong,  Franklin  P. 
Emerson.  *Malcolm  E.  Ferson,  Leonard  W.  Fish,  James  R. 
Fitzgerald,  Orlando  W.  Foss,  Jr..  Samuel  E.  Franc,  Jr..  *James 
Genser,  Charles  F.  Gerber,  Harold  A.  Gibbons,  Gerald  H. 
Gleason.  David  Goldstein,  Robert  N.  Gowing.  Howard  J.  Greet 
William  V.  HaJishak,  Alfred  Hapgood,  Jr.,  Francis  W.  Holden 
George  K.  Howe,  John  R.  Hunter,  William  A.  Jacques,  WUliair 
JuJian,  Peter  A.  Kahn,  *Peter  Kalil.  Robert  T  Kesseli,  Edward 
Knight,  Russell  P.  Larson,  Robert  S.  Lawrence,  Robert  E. 
Lazzerin,  Jr.,  George  V.  Lehto,  Elzear  J.  Lemieux,  Daniel  B. 
Levenson.  Daniel  L.  Lintz,  John  I.  Logan,  Edward  A.  Luiz,  Hon 

E.  MacNutt,  Jr.,  *Sidney  Mad  wed,  William  C.  Marcoux,  Geral 

F.  McCormick,  Daniel  L.  McQuillan,  Harold  A.  Melden,  Jr.,  Gl 
D.  Metcalf,  Robert  E.  Miller,  Jr.,  Eli  Mitchell,  Harry  H.  Mocha 
Jr.,  Henry  G.  Mogensen,  Jr.,  Walter  J.  Mussoni,  Clifton  C. 
Nickerson,  Maurice  Nirenstein,  Henry  J.  O'Donoghue,  Jr.,  *Ja\ 
F.  O'Regan.  *Harvey  L.  Pastan.  Albin  O.  Pearson,  James  Z. 
Peepas,  Hans  E.  Picard,  Murad  S.  Piligian,  William  J.  Ploran 
Mack  J.  Prince.  Robert  K.  Quattrochi,  Edward  W.  Randall, 
William  C.  Reeves,  Raymond  J.  Remillard,  Carl  W.  Ringquist,  Jj 
Hugh  M.  Robinson,  Robert  A.  Rowse,  Smil  Ruhman,  Ellsworth 
Sammet,  Malcolm  A.  Sanborn,  Donald  R.  Sanders,  John  D. 
Saunier,  Dr.  Charles  M.  Selwitz,  Arthur  J.  Sherman,  Jr., 
Abraham  W.  Si//,  Edward  J.  Simakauskas,  Joseph  E.  Skidmoj 
WiJJiam  G.  Sloane,  Carrol  G.  Smith,  Jeremy  W.  Smith,  Richer 
Smith,  John  A.  Snyder,  Stephen  J.  Spencer,  Donald  H.  Story, 

*  Alfred  Strogoff,  Alan  F.  Swenson,  Haig  E.  Tashjian,  *Donol 
Taylor,  Norman  F.  Taylor,  Wyman  R.  Thomas,  Howard  C. 
Tinkham,  Stephen  Torosian,  Samuel  E.  Torrey,  Harvey  E. 
Vigneault.  Robert  R.  Wallace.  Bernard  C.  Walsh,  Burl  S. 
Watson,  Jr.,  DonaJd  G.  Weikman,  Roger  N  Wentzel,  John  H. 
Williams,  Joseph  R.  Winslow.  Raymond  Y.L.  Yang 

CLASS  OF  1950 

Edward  L.  Ahlstrom,  Raymond  L.  Alvey,  Jr.,  Richard  E.  Amidd 
John  O.  Archibald,  Jr.,  Robert  R.  Atherton,  Henry  H.  Baker,  Jn 
Norman  E.  Baker,  George  S.  Barna,  Jr.,  Dr.  Richard  G.  Beschfl 
Arthur  O.  Bouvier,  Jr..  WiJlard  L.  Bowen  III,  Norman  S.  Browl 
Paul  J.  Brown,  *John  P.  Burgarella,  Joseph  J.  Burgarella,  Jr..    I 
Richard  H.  Carlson,  Edgar  B.  Carpenter,  William  B.  Carpentei 
Harvey  W.  Carrier,  Everett  S.  Child.  Jr..  John  T.  Cocker,  *Henl 
S.  Coe,  Jr.,  Richard  Connell,  John  A.  Coppola,  Raymond  L. 
Costine,  Major  Donald  E.  Crittenden.  Thaddeus  F.  Cromwick,  I 
Neil  J.  Crowley,  Henry  S.C.  Cummings,  Jr.,  David  W.  Danielsof 
*Dr.  Donald  W.  Dodge,  Heikki  K.l.  Elo,  George  E.  Engman, 
Francis  H.  Fay,  Francis  A.  Ferraro,  William  F.  Fitzmaurice, 
Stanley  Friedman,  John  F.  Gallagher,  Donald  W.  Giles,  Saul 
Gordon,  Dr.  Fred  W.  Grant,  Jr.,  William  C.  Griggs,  *R.  Reed 
Grimwade.  Charles  P.  Gure,  Robert  J.  Hallisey,  Earle  A.N. 
HaJJstrom,  Col.  Frank  W.  Harding  IJJ,  Daniel  J.  Harrington,  Jr, 
Richard  E.  Hathaway.  Robert  P.  Hayward,  James  G.  Hedrick, 
Everett  A.  Hennessey,  Sumner  W.  Herman,  Lawson  T  Hill.  Jr 
Malcolm  D.  Horton,  Alan  F.  Howe,  David  J.  Hudson,  Richard, 
Jones,  *Arthur  W.  Joyce.  Jr.,  Edmund  H.  Judd,  Frank  S.  Jurczc 
Francis  E.  Kearney.  Walther  A.  Keyl,  G.  Willard  King,  Jr., 
Robert  B.  Laflocque,  Ernest  A.  Larose,  Stuart  G.  Leonard,  Jr., 
John  C.  Margo,  Jr..  Paul  D.  May,  Norman  B.  Maynard,  Richart 
H.  McMahon,  Jr..  Robert  L.  Moison,  Kenneth  F.  Muccino, 
Edmund  L.  Nichols,  Helge  V.  Nordstrom,  Paul  D.  Nyquist,  Kar 
O.  Olson.  Richard  C.  Olson,  Dr.  John  C.  Orcutt,  Robert  A. 
Padgett.  Charles  O.  Parnagian,  Kenneth  W.  Parsons,  Frank  Ml 
Pease,  John  W.  Peirce,  Robert  C.  Proctor,  lr.,  Lester  ].  Reynold! 
Jr.,  Hammond  Robertson,  Jr..  Robert  E.  Sanctuary,  Eli  S. 
Sanderson,  Walter  C.  Scanlan,  Harold  A.  Schmucki.  Paul  M.AI 
S<  honning,  Paul  F.  Seibold,  Robert  F.  Shannon,  Louis  Shuimanl 
John  C  Sionczewski,  'Hubert  E.  Smith,  Robert  F.  Stewart.  Hanj 
,V  Styffe,  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  James  C..J.  Sullivan,  Edmond  T. 
Suydam,  Edward  /  Sydor,  foseph  C.  Syiek.  John  R.  Taylor. 
Donald  W.  Thompson,  foseph  R.  Toegemann.  Robert  J.  Van 
Amburgh,  feremy  Wells.  Rnilip  A.  Wild.  William  D.  Young 


S  OF  1951 

oert  Anderson,  Walter  R.  Anderson,  Gerald  F.  Atkinson, 
falph  W.  Auerbach,  Jr.,  *Bruce  M.  Bailey,  Mark  E.  Baker, 
n  T.  Baker,  Pro/.  Waiter  H.  Bretthauer,  Jr.,  Martin  G. 
erg,  Ashton  B.  Brown.  Robert  N.  Cochran,  Richard  A. 
Jr.,  DonoJd  /.  Corey,  Norris  H.  Corey.  William  J.  Cunneen, 
iiaries  G.  DarreJJ,  Waiter  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  Richard  L. 
tti,  Robert  D.  Fuimer,  Jr.,  *John  C.  George,  Arthur  H. 
,  Jr.,  Anthony  J.  Giordano,  *Aime  J.  Grenier,  Haisey  E. 
•id,  *William  H.  Hasiett,  Jr.,  Brad/ord  F.  Hawiey,  Richard 
ard.  *Harvey  L.  Hovveii,  Cari  E.  Johnson,  Edmund  G. 
n,  Thomas  M.  June,  Karl  H  Kalb/leisch,  Jr.,  John  R.  Kee/e, 
ott  M.  Krackhardt,  *Leo  E.  Lemere,  Jr.,  Donald  C 
*Edward  L.  Lewis,  Staniey  R.  Lindberg,  Robert  M.  Luce, 
R.  Lund,  Stiiiman  MacKay,  Jr.,  Frank  A.  MacPhersbn, 
A.  Mahassei,  Thomas  A.  McComiskey,  *Wiiiiam  J. 
!,  Theodore  A.  Meiior,  Phiiip  Micheiman,  Staniey  L.  Miiier, 
i  C.  Moroney,  Jr.,  Charles  F.  Muirenan,  *Duncan  W. 
.  Edwin  H  Nahikian,  *Roy  H.  Olson,  Irving  F.  Orreii,  Jr., 
Oster.  Owen  Ott,  Charles  C.  Peirce,  Alton  L.  Penniman, 
.  Peterson,  Donald  L.  Poggi,  John  L.  Reid,  *James  E.  Rich. 
W.  Ripley,  *Robert  W.  Rodier,  *Kurt  A.  Schneider, 
ice  F.  Scinto,  Marden  H.  Seavey,  Jr.,  Ramsey  U.  Sheikh, 
s  Sohigian,  A.  WiJJiam  Spencer,  Merrill  E.  Spilier,  Jr.. 
I  J.  Spooner.  Donald  F.  StockwelJ,  Roger  W.  Swanson, 
D.  Taylor,  George  K.  Tucker,  Joseph  S.  Vitalis,  Jr.,  Alfred 
eJer,  DonoJd  K.  White,  Samuel  R.  Winther,  *Robert  C. 


IS  OF  1952 

d  G.  Bennett,  Robert  L.  Favreau,  Norman  W.  Frank, 
•d  T  Gates,  Richard  C.  Gillette,  Charles  R.  Hedenstad, 
Hettinger,  *flobert  D.  Johnson,  Robert  E.  La/ler,  *EIJiott 
wis.  S.  Paui  Li,  Lester  W.  LJoyd,  Jr.,  Warren  W.  Root, 
r  H.  flothman,  Paul  H  San/ord,  *F.  Patterson  Smith, 
rt  F.  Turek,  Edgar  L.  VanCott,  Jr.,  RoJand  E.  Walker 


CLASS  OF  1953 

George  T.  Abdow,  Stephen  J.  Abrams,  John  E.  Alien,  Jr.,  Dr. 
Arnold  Aiientuch,  Alfred  C.  Ba/aro,  Conrad  M.  Banas,  *David  E. 
Beach,  *Dr.  Robert  E.  Behringer,  Arthur  S.  Beii,  *John  R.  Black. 
Henry  J.  Camosse,  DonoJd  R.  Campbell,  Robert  E.  Chiabrandy, 
Arthur  L.  Danforth,  Ian  A.  Davidson,  *Richard  A.  Davis, 
Frederick  DeBoer,  *Dr.  CharJes  O.  Dechand,  Thomas  R. 
DeLucca,  Jr.,  *RaJph  DiGiovanni,  WiJJard  R.  Ernst,  David  E. 
Estey,  Dr.  Robert  W.  Fitzgerald,  John  E.  FJynn,  *KendoJJ  F. 
Forsberg.  Bud  E.  Franden,  George  A.  Garrison,  John  H. 
Gearin,  Jr.,  Raymond  G.  Giguere,  Kenneth  E.  HaaJand,  Richard  J. 
Hall,  David  B.  Hallock,  Sidney  R.  Harvey,  Lcdr.  David  B. 
Hathaway,  Kenneth  M.  Healy,  Daniel  fi.  Hoch,  *Dr.  Michael  N. 
Hoechstetter,  David  G.  Holmes,  Robert  C.  Jacino,  Paul  E.  Jalbert, 
*Dr.  David  S.  Jenney,  Marshall  J.  Kidder,  John  E.  Leach, 
Christopher  W.  Lianides,  John  S.  Lovell,  Walter  B.  Lue/t,  Walter 

E.  MacDonald,  *Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  Orren  B.  McKnight,  Jr., 
William  G.  Mears,  Lucian  H.  Millard,  William  J.  Moroney.  John 
P.  Morrill.  DonoJd  S.  Oliver,  Timothy  V.  O'Toole.  Raymond  L. 
Peterson,  Petros  T.  Petrides,  G.  Raymond  Polen,  Donald  G.  Post, 
Thomas  H.  Rothwell,  *Eugene  L.  Rubin,  Leo  A.  Salmen,  Jack  T. 
Schmid,  Melvin  E.  Seddon,  Jr.,  Michael  P.  Shebek,  Arthur  M. 
Shepard,  Kenneth  W.  Shiatte,  Paul  W.  Snyder,  Jr.,  Hubert  G. 
Stanton,  Jr.,  Dennis  F.  Sullivan,  Jr..  Henry  L.  Sundberg,  Jr..  Dr. 
Donald  W.  Sundstrom,  *David  T  Van  Covern,  Henry  A.  Vasil, 
William  M.  Walsh,  Dale  E.  Westbrook,  Robert  C.  Woodward. 
Michael  S.  Zucker 

CLASS  OF  1954 

*Paul  R.  Alasso,  *Owen  F.  Allen,  David  A.  Bisson,  W.  Richard 
Byrnes.  Harry  F.  Chapell,  Allan  J.  Costantin,  Eugene  J.  Dragon, 
*  Walter  H.  Dziura,  Richard  A.  Ferrero,  Joseph  J.  Fratino,  David 

F.  Gilbert,  *George  A.  Gingras,  Gerard  E.  Grise,  Carl  A. 
Hammar,  Roy  E.  Hayward,  Jr.,  Joachim  Herz,  *Leigh  H.  Hickcox, 
William  H.  Hills,  Adrian  J.  Horovitz,  George  Idlis,  D.  Alden 
Johnson,  Jaak  Jurison,  George  H.  Kay,  Jr.,  Thomas  C.  Kee, 
Jerome  W.  Kilburne,  *Richard  D.  Kirk,  Walter  J.  Kirk.  Gary  A. 
Kunkel,  Dr.  Richard  W.  Lindquist,  S.  Paul  London,  Robert  A. 
Luoma,  *Russell  R.  Lussier,  John  F.  Malloy,  Jr.,  Robert  W.  Meyer. 
Emmanuel  Milias,  *Harry  L.  Mirick.  Jr.  *Howard  I.  Nelson. 
Gilbert  K.  Nersesian,  Dr.  Werner  M.  Neupert.  *Arthur  E. 
Nichols,  Jr..  James  J.  O'Connor,  Jr.,  Robert  F.  Oram,  *Fabian 
Pinkham,  *Richard  D.  Popp,  Edward  J.  Power,  Jr..  George  D. 
Ramig,  Richard  S.  Raymond,  Walter  A.  fleibling,  DonoJd  E.  Ross, 
William  Schoenemann,  William  A.  Seubert,  *Edwin  Shiveil, 
*Walter  M.  Stewart.  Gordon  E.  Walters,  R.  Kingman  Webster, 
Wesley  D.  Wheeler,  *Howard  P.  Whittle 


GIVING  BY  DEGREE  DEPARTMENT 

Degree 

#  Alumni 

#Cont. 

%  Giving 

Total  Giving 

Avg.  Gift 

Mechanical 

3045 

1247 

41.0 

$  71.839.41 

$  57.61 

Civil 

1491 

560 

37.6 

37,876.14 

67.64 

Electrical 

2683 

1104 

41.2 

56.949.29 

51.58 

Chemical 

1117 

416 

37.2 

15.444.74 

37.13 

Chemistry 

560 

242 

43.2 

18.626.00 

76.97 

Phvsics 

385 

99 

25.7 

2.767.00 

27.95 

Math 

280 

67 

23.9 

1,175.96 

17.55 

Management 

198 

55 

27.7 

1.097.00 

19.94 

General  Science 

18 

7 

38.8 

15.00 

2.14 

Computer  Science 

98 

12 

12.2 

190.00 

15.83 

Life  Science 

18 

0.0 

0.00 

0.00 

Humanities  & 

Technology 

22 

4 

18.2 

30.00 

7.50 

Business 

25 

1 

4.0 

10.00 

10.00 

Other 

Sub-Total.  Degrees 

136 
10,076 

7 
3821 

5.2 
37.92 

85.00 
206,105.54 

12.14 

53.94 

Non-Degree 
Grand  Total 

1,505 
11.581 

284 
4105 

18.87 
35.45 

9,464.33 
$215,569.87 

33.33 

$52.51 

CLASS  OF  1955 

*GeraJd  R.  BackJund.  Hans  Badertscher.  Roger  F.  Bardwell 
Hurry  S.  Barton.  Jr..  Hugh  C.  Bell.  Earl  M.  Bloom.  Jr..  Philip  A. 
Bourdon.  Edouard  S.  P.  Bouvier.  Gedney  B.  Brown.  *Paul  W. 
Brown,  jr..  John  /.  Bryce.  Martin  J.  Burden.  Lt.  Col.  Dean  M. 
Carlson  (Ret.).  J.  fi.  Normund  Casaubon.  Stanley  C.  Clevenger. 
Lawrence  F.  Dennis.  Wilfrid  G.  Dudevoir.  Dr.  Howard  /. 
Dworkin.  Dr.  AJanW.  Ede.  John  E.  Ed/ors.  Prof.  HartJey  T. 
Grandin.  Jr..  Daniel  A.  Grant.  Jr..  Lawrence  H.  Henschel.  *Prof. 
Robert  W.  Hoiden.  Robert  /.  Horrigun.  Peter  H.  Horstmann. 
Philip  C.  /ones.  Brian  /.  KeJJy.  Robert  T.  Kirkpatrick.  Norman  M. 
Lawrence.  Henry  E.  Leikkanen.  Marshall  S.  Levine.  Philip 
Lincoln.  Richard  A.  Loomis.  Richard  J.  Lucey.  Thomas  F. 
Manor,  lr..  Henry  L.  Manseau.  *Char/es  F.  McDonough.  DonoJd 
M.  McNumuni,  Ralph  K.  Mongeon.  Jr..  Peter  S.  Morgan.  Patrick 
/.  Murphy.  *Edwin  F.  Nesman.  Robert  E.  Olson.  Robert  H. 
Pearce.  Albert  Pollin.  Walter  B.  Power  111.  Martin  A.  Rafferty. 
Reynold  J.  Sansoucy.  Harold  S.  Sauer.  *Prof.  Robert  /.  Schultz. 
Torek  M.  A.  Shawaf.  Robert  C.  Stempel.  Allan  R.  Twitchell. 
'Charles  F.  Walters,  lames  A.  Warren.  |ohn  W.  Welsh 


CLASS  OF  1956 

Raymond  K    Agar,  Joseph  |   Aiekshun,  lr..  Christian  S. 
Baehrecke,  Albert  I)  Battista,  David  S.  Becker.  Philip  P.  Bedard, 
Donald  F.  Behringer,  Ernest  Bernstein,  Edward  A.  Biakeslee, 
Clifford  W  Burwick,  'Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  fr.,  'Christopher  R. 
CoUins,  Rcrnoid  R  Danti,  Roberi  M  DeJahunt,  Ceroid  '/'  Dyer. 
.Albert  /)  Farnutn,  Robert  H.  Farrar,  fames  L  Forand,  fames  W 
Green  Rev    Frank  Jl  Cross,  (.'/miles  E  Gunn,  Dr  Raymond  R. 
Hagglund,  Richard  C  Ha/ec,  Charles  R  Healy,  Lawrence  B. 
Horrigan,  U  .  Robert  A   Hoyt,  *Allan  R  Hunderup,  'John  L 
Hyde  Jf.  William  A   fohnson,  Florian  I  folda,  William  F. 
fordan.  b    Arthui  G  Kennard,  Robert  E  Kleid,  Hans  H   Koehl 
Alan  G  Larsson.  WilJiam  E  Lloyd,  lied  If  Lohrey,  Viiho  A 
Lucander,  Roberi  IV  Mai<hei(  Richard  I  McBride,  [dhn  M. 
Nash,  Henry  W  N'mvirK.  Donald  R  Olsen,  Erii  Ostergaard, 
Albert  Palmero,  foseph  F  Paparella,  Robert  /I  Flullioivei.  Halberl 
E   Pierce  III,  David  A   Pratt  fames  K  Pri/ti,  David  C  Provost,  h  . 
Robert  Robinson.  Richard  E  Rodin,  Ruhoid  I.  Ro/elli.  Anthony 
duello  Rev  Paul  f)  Schoonmaker,  Harold  I    Snuih  frwin 
I  Smith  III  I'lin  i  Stephi  •  /'  Strom  /)/   Roger  H 

lnn<rrU    l)i    Mm  A     lovloi     *//ouv   V\'    Tenner  /i  .  Robert  V 
VieraJtis   \-dwau\  R   Umi 


CLASS  OF  1957 

Crosby  L.  Adams.  Edwin  R.  Ahlstrom.  Neil  W.  Armstrong,  lohn 
H.  Atchison.  Jr..  Richard  A.  Barlow.  *Al/red  E.  Barry.  Robert  H. 
Beckett.  Salvatore  H.  Bello.  Anthony  C.  Berg.  Donald  F.  Berth. 
Dr.  Rene  R.  Bertrand.  Paul  R.  Beswick.  Charles  H.  Bidwell.  Jr.. 
Louis  A.  Blanchard.  Dr.  John  L.  Buzzi.  Murray  A.  Cappers.  Jr.. 
Alan  /.  Carlan.  Mrs.  Audrey  M.  Carlan.  Allan  E.  Carlson.  John  T 
Carroll.  James  A.  Cheney.  Andrew  S.  Crawford.  Jr..  George  E.    1 
Crosby.  Edward  M.  Dennett.  Jr..  Howard  C.  Dickson.  Edward  W.< 
Eidt.  lr..  Dr.  Adi  Eisenberg.  Robert  P.  Engvali.  Gilbert  P.  Fauteux, 
Richard  /.  Ferguson.  Gerald  Finkle.  Seymour  L.  Friedman. 
Ronald  S.  Fuller.  Frank  Furman.  Robert  F.  Galligan.  Joseph  C. 
Ginkus.  Jr..  Stephen  Z.  Gunter.  Alan  R.  Gustafson.  Stuart  R. 
Hamilton.  William  P.  Hennessey,  Kenneth  E.  Hermance.  John  M. 
Hobun.  John  F.  Howe.  Jr..  Paul  J.  Kerrigan.  Leonard  L.  Krasnow. 
Walter  C.  Kress.  Alvin  C.  Lanson.  Robert  V.  Lemay,  George  H.   1 
Long.  /r..  Pascal  A.  Mancini.  Anthony  A.  Matulaitis.  Jr..  Dr.  lohn 
M.  Matuszek.  Jr..  Dr.  Frederick  P.  Mertens.  Edward  /.  Moineau.  i 
Richard  F.  Moore.  Winford  T.  Nowell.  Alex  C.  Papianou,  David 
C.  Penkus.  Collins  M.'Pomeroy.  William  W.  Rawstron. 
Constantino  Rhodes;  James  F.  Richards.  Donald  B.  Rising. 
Theodore  F.  Roe.  William  C.  Rogler.  /r..  Ronald  A.  Samil/'an.  lohn 
M.  Surkisiun.  Arthur  Shahkm.  Richard  M.  Silven.  Oscar  O. 
St.  Thomas.  Charles  M.  Stasey,  Michael  J.  Stephens.  Maj. 
Richard  W.  Stevens.  Robert  F.  Sutherland.  Jr..  Alvin  E.  Tanner. 
Dr.  Charles  A.  Tyson.  *Spiro  L.  Vrusho.  */oseph  /.  Weber.  I). 
Carl  Webster.  *Hobert  P.  Weis.  *Charles  A.  Whitney.  Ronald 
Wilson 


CLASS  OF  1958 

Donald  D,  Abraham.  Roger  W.  Anderson,  lohn  J.  Aquino.  Jr..  ]. 
William  Belanger,  lr..  Harvey  A.  Berger.  Lt.  Col.  Robert  F. 
Bernado  |R<'f|.  Robert  H.  Bernard,  Oliver  E.  Bessette.  Dr.  fosepj 
E.  Boggio,  Roberi  I   Boyea,  Christopher  Brayton.  William  a. 
Hrmvi'i.  }v  .  Donald  |.  Rutterworth.  Bernard  M.  Campbell.  Jr.. 
Ionics  A   Christo,  Frederh  F.  Cossick,  Raul  M.  Dalton,  Dv  Hum 
D'Ambrosio,  '/'    Roger  Danielson,  Dr.  Frank  D.  DeFalco,  fames 
S.  Demetry,  David  B.  Denniston,  Anthony  f,  DiGiovanni,  Dr. 
Larry  Dworkin,  David  E.  Ed/ors,  lh   Edward  C.  Fraser,  fasper 
Freese,  Philip  M  French,  lr .  Thayer  A,  l-iciuh.  Michael  M. 
Galbraith,  William  F.  (.'ess.  jr..  foseph  B.  Gill.  Jack  1,  Gorr, 
Donald  R  Grenon,  William  E.  Griffiths,  *flichard  A,  Hammond, 
Donald  B.  Hayward,  Arthur  J.  Heslord.  Descom  D.  Hoagland  ffi. 

*William  U  Hop/,  Perry  E  foslin,  "Ranald  D.  Kangas,  IhuUm  L. 
Keeler,   'Marian  ('.  Knight.  Errd  M.  Levin.  Richard  A   Lisbon, 


m  fl.  McLeod.  Jr..  William  B.  Mierke,  Robert  A.  Moore. 
L.  Morse,  William  J.  O'Neil,  Peter  J.  Ottowitz.  Bernard  A. 
resky,  James  H  Porter,  Howard  B.  Pritz,  Douglas  H.Reed. 
m  S.  S.  Ribeiro,  Bernard  V.  Ricciardi,  Harvey  M.  Robbin, 
R.  Russo,  David  A.  Ryan,  Elmer  W.  Schroder,  Jr..  Ralph  E. 
i.  Jr..  H.  Wilder  Simpson,  Howard  K.  Steves.  Thomas  /. 
,  Jr..  Norman  J.  Taupeka,  Robert  W.  Thornton,  Robert  D. 
.  James  J.  Vedovelli.  Robert  W.  Weinberg,  Peter  J.  Zanini. 


IS  OF  1959 

A.  Alfieri.  Lcdr.  Robert  A.  Allen.  William  H.  Bailey.  James 
n,  *Robert  A.  Berg.  *Peter  K.  Bertsch.  Fred  D.  Blonder. 
ul  A.  Bonczyk.  John  D.  Bonk.  Richard  C.  Bourne,  David  R. 

Frederick  G.  Broshjeit,  Joseph  P.  Burger.  *Neil  T  Buske, 
M.  Cohee.  Jr..  George  B.  Constantine,  Frederick  J.  Costello. 
n  I.  Cote.  Joseph  F.  Coveney.  Andrew  P.  Cueroni.  William 
ran.  David  G.  Daubney.  Clifford  H.  Daw.  Jr..  John  L. 
rt.  John  S.  Demko.  Normand  P.  DePratti.  A.  David  Dickert. 

Dinge.  Thomas  /.  Downs,  Seymour  Ellin.  Anthony  E. 
om.  *Dr.  David  A.  Evensen,  F.  William  Farnsworth. 
i  R.  Ferrari.  George  M.  Fotiades.  Carl  M.  Frova,  John  W. 
"W.  Michael  Gasek.  Miles  W.  Grant.  Jr..  *Richard  N. 
son.  *Brad/ord  J.  Harper.  *William  C.  Hees.  Michael  A. 
>erg.  Dr.  Norman  A.  Hiatt.  Robert  W.  Hoag.  Richard  B. 
Thomas  F.  Humphrey.  Robert  J.  Kaye.  Robert  W.  Kelley. 
nald  E.  Kirk.  Marshall  P.  Krupnick.  *Roger  W.  Kuenzel. 
M.  Lawson.  Dr.  Alien  H.  Levesque.  Dr.  Frederick  H. 
Jr..  Prof.  Norman  Mahler.  Gilbert  Markarian.  John  A. 
nus.  Lawrence  E.  Mellen.  David  S.  Miller,  Anthony  J. 
;on.  Donald  R.  Nelson,  Peter  A.  Nelson,  Erdic  G.  Nichols, 
ir  Olsen.  Jr.,  Francis  J.  Pakulski,  Philip  H.  Peirce,  Peter  O. 
in,  Ronald  S.  Perzan.  George  E.  Picard,  Robert  E.  Pill. 
ider  L.  Pratt,  *Robert  L.  Price.  *Philip  H.  Puddington. 
M.  Rathbun.  Frederick  W.  Reinharf.  Donald  I.  Richards, 
orge  P.  Rizzi,  Clesson  A.  Robbins,  Richard  J.  Ronskavitz, 
rd  A.  Saulnier,  David  A.  Sawin,  Maj.  Robert  D.  Smith. 
y  W.  Sokoloff.  Malcolm  G.  Stearns,  Douglas  G.  Stotz, 

d  H.  Street  III.  David  B.  Sullivan.  Bonald  F.  Swenson. 
ider  Swetz,  Jr..  Joseph  E.  Swider,  Jr..  Robert  D.  Taft. 
1  D.  Tenney.  Joseph  B.  Vivona.  Winthrop  M.  Wassenar. 
nee  White,  Morgan  M.  Whitney.  Jr..  Brian  J.  Williams. 
'S  R.  Willoughby.  *John  E.  Wolfe.  Edward  B.  Wysocki. 
",.  Ziegler 

S  OF  1960 

nd  P.  Abraham,  Mark  H.  Abramowitz,  William  M.  Aitken, 
C.  Alpern.  Prof.  Ernest  W.  Arnold,  Jr..  *Paul  W.  Bayliss, 
bert  C.  Bearse.  William  K.  Bonta.  Richard  D.  Brewster. 
d  A.  Carlson.  Robert  A.  Chechile.  Lawrence  J.  Cohen. 
!  M.  Cornell.  George  DeVries.  Harry  F.  Dizoglio,  Carleton 
icoll.  John  D.  Driscoll,  Cornelius  J.  Enright.  Jr.,  Dr.  Armand 
o.  William  J.  Firla,  Jr..  Russell  A.  Fransen,  John  N.  Galian. 
d  L.  Gess,  *Jerry  B.  Gibbs,  Paul  R.  Gould.  James  G. 
ndorf.  Richard  P.  Harding.  Norman  M.  Hardy,  Donald  L. 
r.  Eric  A.  Hauptmann.  Stephen  J.  Hewick,  J.  Lawrie 
•d.  W.  Kenneth  Hildick.  David  A.  Johnson.  Robert  F. 
jw,  *Francis  J.  Kaszynski,  Jr..  William  A.  Kerr.  John  F. 
ttrick.  Ivan  H.  Kirsch.  Richard  A.  Kischell.  Alexander  J. 
ewski.  Peter  A.  Lajoie.  Sang  K.  Lee.  Raymond  A.  Levesque. 
1  L.  Lince.  Charles  Lipson.  *Richard  A.  Loring,  Arthur  J. 
re.  Donald  C.  MacMilian.  Bruce  A.  MacPhetres,  Peter  H. 
Alfred  P.  Materas.  Jr..  Kenneth  L.  Matson.  Dr.  James  P. 
ik.  Benjamin  B.  Morgan,  Warren  T  Munroe.  Robert  R. 
i.  William  R.  Nimee.  Prof.  Robert  L.  Norton.  John  S. 
nelJ.  Jr..  Michael  J.  O'Toole.  Jr..  William  J.  Palmer.  Philip  R. 
e.  Jr.,  Ronald  F.  Pokraka.  Robert  E.  Purpura.  Harry  F.  Ray. 
I.  Reisinger.  Stuart  P.  Roberts,  Robert  K.  Rosenberg, 
ge  J.  Schoen.  Bruce  E.  Schoppe.  *Bernard  J.  Seastrom.  Dr. 
rd  A.  Sholl.  Franklin  Siegel.  Donald  Sieurin.  Fred  S. 
y.  *Robert  A.  St  Jean.  Paul  B.  Stewart.  Edward  C.  Stone, 
r  B.  Suski.  Jr..  *H.  David  Sutton.  Donald  A.  Taylor.  Francis 
:e.  Thomas  C.  Waage,  Elbert  K.  Weaver,  David  J.  Welch, 
y  C.  Wells.  Jr..  Bruce  G.  Willbrant.  George  G.  Wilson, 
is  B.  Wisnowski.  Peter  S.  Zilko,  Thomas  F.  Zimmie 

>S  OF  1961 

rd  S.  Adler.  Henry  P.  Aliessio.  Edward  A.  Aitieri,  Setrag  S. 
•lian.  Richard  J.  Baker.  Andrew  M.  Beaudoin.  Robert  R. 
Iry.  John  Brunter.  John  M.  Buckley.  William  Colder  III, 
las  A.  Caputo,  Thomas  K.  Caste,  Theodore  A.  Cocca, 
rd  D.  Cohen.  Charles  S.  Cook.  Bradford  S.  Cushing,  Ronald 
'aripa.  Ronald  W.  Du/ries.  Al/red  L.  Dunklee.  James  M. 


Dr.  Joseph  E.  Faucher.  Jr..  Roger  E.  Faulk.  *George  F.  Foxhall, 
Dr.  H.  Richard  Freeman.  Irving  B.  Freeman.  John  J.  Gabarro. 
Wayne  F.  Galusha.  Daniel  D.  Gelier.  Major  Norman  J.  Ginsburg. 
Douglass  D.  Gladstone.  Lawrence  S.  Green,  Lee  P.  Hackett.  John 
H.  Herron.  Bradley  E.  Hosmer.  Richard  B.  Hosmer,  Dr.  Peter  A. 
Hurwitz.  Al/red  E.  irelan.  *Larry  L.  Israel,  Asjed  A.  Jalil,  Joseph 
J.  Janik.  Alien  L.  Johnson.  G.  Leonard  Johnson,  Harold  L.  Jurist. 
Dr.  Arthur  S.  Kamlet,  Stuart  C.  Kazin.  Mel  G.  Keegan.  Arthur 
W.  Kroll.  Pro/.  Richard  W.  Lamothe.  Richard  G.  Ledoux.  Charles 
R.  Lehtinen.  Roger  R.  Lesieur.  Dr.  John  B.  Lewis.  Joseph  W. 
Little,  Malcolm  E.  Low.  William  C.  Lupoli.  William  A.  F. 
Maertens,  Paul  A.  L.  Mannheim.  Paul  J.  McCarthy,  Charles 
W.  Meiio.  Al/red  J.  Migneauit,  Charles  R.  Mixer.  Richard  J. 
Moore.  Gerald  A.  Mullaney.  *Richard  H.  Nelson,  Daniel  F. 
O 'Grady,  Jr..  John  J.  O'Meara.  Kenneth  1.  Parker.  Walter  E. 
Pillartz.  Jr.,  *Thomas  E.  Postma.  Lloyd  W.  Pote,  John  W.  Powers. 
David  M.  Raab,  Donald  C.  Root.  Alan  C.  Roseen.  Louis  J.  Rossi. 
Sheldon  W.  Rothstein,  A.  Craig  Rowley.  Robert  N.  Ruberti, 
Merrill  Rutman.  Donald  J.  Schulz,  *Dr.  Robert  E.  Seamon,  *Allan 
P.  Sherman.  Ralph  F.  Smith  III.  Frederic  A.  Stevens.  Edward  A. 
Sundburg.  Jr..  Dr.  James  W.  Swaine.  Jr..  *Richard  E.  Taylor. 
Wayne  L.  Taylor.  James  M.  Tolos.  William  S.  Visser.  John  M. 
Vyce.  Ronald  C.  Ward.  W.  Dana  Wilcock,  Dr.  Charles  E.  Wilkes. 
*Stanley  L.  Wilson.  Bruce  W.  Woodford.  Edmund  T  Wozniak, 
Joseph  N.  Wrubel.  George  M.  Yule.  Rimas  A.  Zinas 

CLASS  OF  1962 

Richard  O.  Allen,  Walter  B.  Ambler.  Dr.  Kenneth  J.  Anusavice. 
Joseph  J.  Baldasaro.  Ronald  F.  Baruzzi.  Brad/ord  J.  Booker. 
Daniel  J.  Brosnihan  III.  William  A.  Brutsch,  Carmine  A. 
CaroselJa,  James  F.  Carrigan,  Robert  R.  Cassanelli,  *Robert  A. 
Cawood.  *Robert  W.  Chapin,  Dr.  Barry  M.  Cherkas.  Robert  C. 
Clark.  David  W.  Cohen,  Dr.  Michael  A.  Davis.  *Richard  J.  Di 
Buono,  Bruce  W.  Dudley,  Victor  P.  Du/ault,  Robert  A.  Eddy, 
Jacob  N.  Erlich,  William  R.  Fado,  Joseph  W.  Fitzpatrick,  James  L. 
Forand,  Jr..  *George  H.  Forsberg,  Jon  E.  Fox.  Joel  N.  Freedman. 
Richard  W.  Frost,  Terry  Furhovden.  David  L.  Goodman,  Wilfred 
G.  Harvey.  Jr.,  Ralph  A.  Herrick.  Major  Jay  P.  Hochstaine. 
Kenneth  A.  Homon.  Lewis  W.  Huntoon,  Ralph  G.  Johanson.  Neil 
J.  Jorgensen,  William  A.  Krein,  Joseph  D.  LeBlanc.  John  A. 
Lockwood,  David  A.  Luoma.  David  N.  Lyons.  Frank  J.  Maher. 
Peter  J.  Martin.  John  E.  Matson,  James  H.  Mayer.  Robert 
E.  Mcintosh,  Jr.,  *Bernard  J.  Meister,  *Ray  S.  Messenger.  David 
P.  Norton.  *Lcdr.  Brian  J.  O'Conneli,  Stephen  B.  Osterling,  Peter 
A.  Parrino.  Pro/.  James  D.  Quirk.  Michael  E.  Ra//erty.  Harry  T. 
Rapelje,  Harold  C.  Reynolds,  Jr..  John  H.  Reynolds,  John  M. 
Samborski.  Donald  F.  Sanger,  Robert  C.  Schmidt.  Richard  A. 
Scott.  Prabodh  U.  Shah.  Paul  A.  Sharon.  William  J.  Shepherd. 
*David  K.  Smith,  Stanley  J.  Strychaz.  Jr..  Anthony  F.  Szwarc. 
Rev.  Andrew  D.  Terwilleger.  Capt.  John  R.  Tu/ano,  Walter  D. 
Wadman,  John  M.  Wallace,  Stanley  M.  Wilbur.  *Robert  H.  York 


CLASS  OF  1963 

Kurt  D.  Anderson,  Robert  K.  Asanoma.  Robert  D.  Behn.  Peter  A. 
Bizzigotti.  Roland  F.  Boisvert.  Carleton  W.  Borden.  Jr..  David  P. 
Bova,  Wilfred  E.  Brown  111.  Dominic  J.  Bucca,  Joseph  V. 
Bucciaglia,  W.  James  Budzyna.  Paul  E.  Cahalen.  Donald  L. 
Chaffee,  Robert  J.  Craig.  Richard  T.  Dann,  Arthur  F.  Dariey,  Jr., 
Joseph  R.  de  Beaumont.  Dr.  Richard  F.  Dominguez.  *David  E. 
Dunklee.  Jr.,  George  D.  Eldridge.  Alan  S.  Elias.  Richard  E. 
Epstein.  Lawrence  N.  Escott.  *Roger  D.  Flood.  Earl  T.  Fratus. 
John  H.  Ge//ken,  Ralph  D.  Gelling.  Lee  J.  Globerson.  Charles  N. 
Goddard.  Bruce  G.  Goodale.  John  H.  Goselin,  Edward  P. 
Gosling  III.  Robert  H.  Gowdy.  Robert  F.  Grenier.  Jr..  Paul  P. 
Hausner.  Dennis  W.  Heath.  *Prof.  Allen  H.  Hoffman.  Russell  E. 
Hokanson.  Dr.  Harry  A.  Hoyen.  Jr..  George  B.  Hunt.  Dr.  Richard 
A.  iacobucci,  Robert  D.  ingle.  Jay  Kaminsky.  William  G.  Kanabis 
Dr.  Richard  A.  Kashnow,  James  D.  Keating.  Francis  E. 
Kennedy.  Jr..  Robert  P.  Kostka,  John  B.  Lawson.  Chi-Ming  Li. 
Daniel  J.  Lizdas,  John  Machonis.  Jr.,  Roger  H.  Maddocks.  R. 
Michael  Malbon.  Richard  C.  Marcy,  Jr..  Robert  E.  Maynard.  Jr., 
*Howard  I.  McDevitt,  Jr..  *Roger  C.  McGee.  John  R.  McGuire. 
Robert  M.  Mellor,  *Joseph  J.  Mielinski.  Jr.,  Philip  A.  Morrissette. 
Stephen  P.  Mozden.  Jr.,  Dr.  Robert  E.  Murphy,  Maj.  David  G. 
Nevers.  *David  R.  Nordin.  Thomas  M.  Owens.  James  A. 
Parker.  Jr..  Dr.  Daniel  J.  Pender.  Russell  E.  Person,  Arthur  T. 
Phillips.  Edward  J.  Polewarczyk.  Roger  W.  Read.  Frank  S. 
Reynolds,  Frederic  D.  Riley.  John  J.  Salerno.  Timothy  M.  Shea, 
Thomas  A.  Sherrock,  Dennis  E.  Snay.  Gerard  J.  St.  Germain. 
Warren  R.  Standley.  Nishan  Teshoian.  David  A.  Tone.  *Paul  W. 
Ulcickas.  Maj.  James  A.  Velezis.  George  P.  Vittas.  Richard  K. 
Wagner.  Gordon  W.  Whitten,  Allan  R.  Whittum.  David  E. 
Woodman.  Theodore  P.  Zoli.  Jr..  William  E.  Zottoli 


CLASS  OF  1964 

Robert  P.  Allison.  Roger  L.  Arko.  Peter  Baker.  Thomas  S.  Baron. 
Prof.  Leon  S.  Bedard.  Thaddeus  Belts.  Arthur  fl.  Bodwell. 
Frederick  O.  Borgeson.  *Stuart  P.  Bonen.  Thomas  M.  Boyle. 
Robert  B.  Bridgman.  Joseph  B.  Brinkmann.  Francis  X. 
Caradonna.  Allen  W.  Case.  Jr..  Steven  T.  Churchill.  William  H. 
Clark  III.  V\'iJliam  A.  Cote.  Paul  A.  Covec.  Marshall  W.  Cross. 
Robert  R.  Dangelmaver.  MiJton  P.  Dentch.  Peter  L.  Dornemann. 
U'iJiiam  J.  Dowd.  Robert  E.  Drean.  *Raymond  G.  Dube.  fames  C. 
Dunham.  IVilh'am  E.  Ferguson.  Waiter  B.  Fohlin.  Prof.  Bradley  T. 
Gale.  F.  Clark  Gesswein.  /on  Gjestvang.  Waiter  J.  Gonia.  SamueJ 
K.  Grace.  Alan  R.  Gross.  VViJJiam  /.  Gunther.  Richard  F.  Healing. 
David  A.  Helming.  Larry  G.  Hull  Dr.  Edward  P.  Iaccarino.  Phih'p 
I.  Johnson.  Raymond  G.  Johnson.  Jr..  Karl  L.  Jurentkuff.  Dr.  James 
J.  Kaput.  Paul  J.  Keating.  *Dr.  Wayne  H.  Keene.  Eugene  S. 
Kiliian.  Dr.  David  H.  Laananen.  Dr.  Joseph  L.  LaCava.  *M. 
Stephen  Lajoie.  Bruce  W.  Larsen.  Louis  A.  Lemone.  Dr.  Paul  A. 
Lilienthai.  John  R.  Lonergan.  Arthur  N  Luhtaia.  J.  Richard 
Lundgren.  Jr..  Dr.  Bruce  S.  Maccabee.  Alfred  C.  Malchiodi.  Jr., 
Dr.  Frank  A.  Marafiofi.  Steriing  R.  McFee.  Thomas  G.  McGee. 
Thomas  J.  Modzelewski.  *Haroid  E.  Monde.  Jr..  Robert  H.  Morse. 
Wiiliam  J.  Museier.  Thomas  B.  Newman.  Jr..  Stephen  C.  Nobie. 
John  T  O'Keefe.  James  W.  Oldziev.  *Roberf  W.  PaJmer,  *Robert 

E.  Parker.  Charles  H.  Peix  IV.  Dr.  Robert  A.  Peura.  William  R. 
Phillips.  Dr.  Alfred  R.  Potvin.  *Robert  Rounds.  Jr..  Robert  W. 
fludd.  Steven  B.  Sacco.  Frederic  C.  Scofield  111.  William  E. 
Shanok.  William  S.  Shurbet.  Maurice  fl.  Siivestris.  Dr.  Mason  H. 
SomerviJJe.  Thomas  W.  Spargo.  John  A.  Spencer.  George  V. 
Spires  111.  William  T.  Swanson  U.  Peter  J.  Tancredi.  J.  Paul 
Theroux.  Daniel  Turner.  S.  William  WandJe,  Jr..  *James  C. 
Ward.  Jr..  Louis  A.  Wargo.  Paul  B.  Watson.  Brian  A.  Wells. 
George  D.  Whiteside.  Cpt.  Elliot  F.  Wyner 

CLASS  OF  1965 

Raymond  J.  Agneiio.  Richard  J.  Aimone.  Phiiip  I.  Batcheider. 
Nicholas  J.  Barone.  Marvin  S.  Berger.  O.  Wihiam  Bjorniund. 
Steven  N.  Boraks.  Peter  J.  Bowes.  Carl  T.  Brozek.  Randall  L. 
Burr.  Robert  H.  Cahiii.  Aiexander  B.  Campbeli  II.  *Donald  C. 
Carlson.  Robert  E.  Cavaiiaro.  *Stephen  L.  Qoues,  *David  B. 
Cooley.  Gary  C.  Coram.  Robert  K.  Dawless.  *James  A.  Day. 
Michael  S.  Dembski.  Jordan  M.  Dern.  Charles  J.  DeSimone.  Jr.. 
Garrett  H.  Deviieg.  James  T  Dobrowoiski.  Charles  H.  Du/our. 
Wayne  E.  Eddy.  Nils  C.  Ericksen.  Edward  J.  FaJkowski.  John  E. 
FJvnn.  *Harry  S.  Forrest.  Richard  C.  Fortier.  William  D. 
Galebach.  Dr.  William  F.  Gasko.  Philip  D.  Giantris.  Bennett  E. 
Gordon.  Jr..  Joseph  Gracia.  Jr..  Ralph  P.  Guertin.  James  B. 
Gustafson.  Mordecai  Gutman.  James  L.  Hammett.  Jr.,  Peter  A. 
Heibeck.  Waiter  E.  Henry.  Jr..  Wiiiiam  F.  Hines.  Jr..  Walter  C. 
Hipp.  Jr..  George  W.  Holland.  William  fl.  Hopkins.  Robert  A. 
Howard.  Charles  F.  Hunnicut.  Glenn  P.  Hurst.  John  P.  Jacobson. 
Raymond  C  Jacques.  Donald  P.  Johnson.  Dr.  Richard  N.  Johnson. 
Robert  L.  Johnson.  *John  J.  Josti.  Robert  A.  Juckins.  James  A. 
Keith.  Dr.  Donald  L.  Kerr.  Robert  D.  Kiauber.  Sidney  S.  Klein. 
RusseJi  H.  Koeisch.  Clinton  F.  Kucera.  Jr..  Peter  G.  Leasca. 
U'iJiiam  E.  Lightfoot.  William  N.  Lovig.  Allan  W.  Low.  Jr..  *Dr. 
David  B.  Luber.  *Peter  E.  McCormick.  Urham  A.  Mesen.  Harry 

A.  Mildoniun.  Jr..  James  F.  Mills.  *Patrick  T  Moran.  Dr.  Thomas 

F.  Moriarty.  Gerald  F.  Morris.  Philip  C  Nyberg.  Paul  N.  Nystrom. 
Edward  A.  Obermeyer.  John  W.  Oldham.  Jr..  Michael  F.  Oliver. 
Richard  S.  Olson.  Joseph  J.  Osvald.  *PauJ  R.  Pearson.  *Thomas  E. 
RBOSe,  Wayne  D.  Ponik.  Capt.  John  M.  Porter.  Harvey  J. 

Rosen field.  Joseph  A.  Ruseckas.  Walter  J.  Ruthenburg  III.  PhiJip 

B.  Ryan.  Henry  A.  Schneck.  Dr.  David  M.  Schwaber.  Charles  R. 
Seaver.  Chester  J.  Sergey.  Jr..  Ojars  M.  Silarajs.  *Henry  J. 
Skonieczny.  Anthony  A.  Smaiarz.  Robert  J.  St.  Pierre.  Dr.  Donald 
C  Sundberg.  Eugene  G.  Sweeney.  Jr..  Alfred  G.  Symonds. 
•Kenneth  W.  Terry.  * Jeffrey  W.  Thwing.  Terry  G.  Tracy. 
•Russell  B.  7'rusk  Capt.  Fric  P.  Wurman.  Bruce  R.  Webber.  *Dr. 
fohn  T  Wilson.  Ronaid  W   Wood.  Hallett  A    Wright.  William  H. 
Wvmun.  Bruce  C.  Yung.  John  H.  Zifcok.  Jr 

CLASS  OF  1966 

•f.orv  \f   .Anderson    Stephen  F   Anderson.  Brian  N.  Belanger.  L. 
Thomas  Benoit.  Jr.  Lt    Philips.  Workman.   *Cupt    Roland  C 
Bouchard  J    William  floiven.  Richard  A.  Culvert.  John  H. 
CarossUa.  Anthony  S.  Carrara,  Paul  M  Castle.  David  I.  Clarke, 
Robert  I  Coates,  Kendall  /•  Cowes,  'Douglas  If  Croweil.  J. 
Ronald  Crump  Sigmund  S  Dicker,  /  Gary  Dv<  kman,  'Joachim 
W  DziaUas.  George  M   Elko,  'William  F  Mhoti.  Fred  T. 
Erskine  III  Or  Donald  //  Foley,  Stephen  /  Formica,  Christopher 
f,  Fostei   I'lulif)  R  Caither,  Brendan  /  Geelan,  fohn  I  GiJbert, 
Donald  P  Givens,  Richard  E  GoodeJJ,  Petei  Gray  IV  Geoi 
GrinuneU.  Stephen  /  Hebert  Carl  E  Hellstrom.  Robert  M  Hah. 
PhiJip  /  Hopklnson.  lohn  S  tonkins,  David  C.  Johnson,  "David  I. 


Jorczak.  David  fl.  Kiimaj.  Charles  S.  Knothe.  Keith  L.  Knowit 
Dr.  Robert  P.  Kokernak.  Darrei  J.  Kost.  Waiter  S.  Kuczek.  Jr 
Andrew  J.  Kudarauskas.  Peter  J.  KudJess.  *Ernest  J.  Kunz.  Ji 
*Dr.  John  H.  Lauterbach.  John  C  Lee.  Robert  S.  Levine.  Paul 
Lindberg,  Ching  Soo  Liu.  flonuid  I.  LongweJJ,  James  E.  Loomh 
*Peter  H.  Lukesh.  John  V.  Magnano.  Daniel  J.  Maguire.  PauJ 
MaJnafi.  Michael  fl.  Mauro.  Donald  E.  McCarthy.  John  J. 
Morawski.  Michael  C  Napolitano.  *flona!d  F.  Naventi.  flicha 

B.  Neison.  Stewart  W.  Nelson.  William  fl.  Nims.  *Harry  B. 
Ogasian.  flein  Olvet.  George  B.  Ordway,  *Lawrence  A. 
Penoncello.  Edward  B.  Pero.  DonoJd  W.  Petersen.  Jr..  Robert 
Plum.  Guenther  T.  Pollnow.  Michael  T.  Portanova.  George  M 
Preston.  Robert  E.  Rapp.  Dr.  fames  A.  Rafches.  William  J. 
flemillong.  Jr..  Stuart  R.  floselle.  Anthonv  P.  Sacovi.tch,  Earl  / 
Scott.  Ashok  D.  Shah,  flobert  E.  Shaw.  .Robert  A.  Sinuc.  Chaifcl 

C.  Slama.  Earl  C.  Sparks  III,  William  J.  Spratt,  Jesse  fl. 
Stalker,  Jr..  *Peter  G.  Stebbins.  flobert  S.  Sternschein.  flicha] 
A.  Stone,  Jayantilai  T  Thakker.  flobert  W.  Thompson,  flonalc 
TilJberg,  Gerard  A.  Toupin.  Alfred  T.  Vasseur,  Dr.  Douglas  L 
Vizard.  Leonard  J.  Weckel.  Shelton  B.  Wicker.  Jr..  Heyward ; 
Williams.  David  E.  Wilson,  Eugene  B.  Wilusz.  flobert  J.  Zavat 
*Roger  J.  Zip/el 

CLASS  OF  1967 

*Dr.  Stephen  fl.  AJpert.  Frank  M.  Amazeen.  *Arthur  F.  Amen 
Robert  J.  Baron.  Robert  A.  Bohlin.  Gary  E.  Bossak.  Allan  T. 
Buros.  Jr..  Curtis  R.  Carlson.  Paul  B.  Cherubini.  Edward  S. 
Ciarpella.  Joseph  J.  Cieplak.  Warren  L.  Clark.  Cornelius  F.Cla 
William  E.  Cobb.  Daniel  1.  Coifman.  David  fl.  Collette.  Williani 
Cooper.  *Richard  H.  Court.  Jr..  Francis  L.  Dacri.  Robert  J. 
Dashner.  Richard  E.  DeGennaro.  David  C  Drescher.  *John  B, 
Feldman.  Emilio  J.  Fernandez.  Joseph  L.  Ferrantino.  Richard^ 
Fine.  John  Fiore.  Jr..  *Peter  N.  Formica.  Raymond  J.  Fortin. 
*Steven  J.  Frymer.  Capt.  Edward  A.  Gallo.  Robert  E.  Gohsler.  i 
Lawrence  R.  Gooch.  flonald  J.  Gordon.  William  W.  Goudie. 
*/oseph  F.  Goulart.  Gregory  J.  Goulet.  Richard  M.  GutkowskM 
Capt.  David  K.  Heebner.  Peter  M.  Herron.  John  E.  Hitchcoc^R 
Richard  C.  Holler.  *William  R.  Hyatt.  Allen  J.  Ikalainen.  Clintcl 
A.  Inglee,  Richard  G.  Jewell.  Frank  T  Jodaitis,  *Brad/ord  A.} 
Johnson.  Ronald  A.  Jolicoeur.  Marshall  A.  Kaplan.  Thomas  E. 
Kelley.  Robert  A.  Kennedy  III.  Joseph  F.  Kieronski.  *John  L. 
Kilguss.  Richard  M.  King.  David  P.  Kokalis.  Leon  E.  Krals. 
*Stephen  J.  Lak.  Jr..  James  A.  Londregan.  Russell  A.  Lukes. 
James  W.  Manning.  *flobert  G.  McAndrew.  William  0.  Mess) 
Paul  J.  Milne,  flonald  A.  Mucci.  John  B.  Nano.  Stephen  F. 
Nasiatka.  Jr..  Ralph  C.  OJesen.  Richard  C.  Olson.  Shanfikuma 
Putel.  John  J.  Perrone.  Douglas  H.  Pike.  Edward  W. 
Piltzecker.  Jr..  flichard  B.  Plummer.  Capt.  George  W.  Pom/rej 
Noel  M.  Potter.  William  F.  Pratt.  George  H.  Rand.  Jr..  Prof. 
Raymond  C.  Rogers.  John  E.  flogozenski.  Jr..  John  S.  Romano, ' 
Steven  E.  Schumer.  Edward  G.  SempJe.  Sudhir  A.  Shah.  Petei 
ShanJey.  Neil  M.  Shea.  Robert  C.  Shen.  Howard  H.  Shore. 
Matthew  R.  Sinasky.  Capt.  Lester  L.  Small.  David  K.  Smith. 
Gunnar  J.  Staiemark.  Stephen  B.  Statz.  John  L.  Stumpp.  John  | 
Sundquisf.  Alan  H.  Suydam,  William  E.  Tanzer.  Jonathan  A. 
Titus.  *flobert  P.  Tolokan.  Duncan  C.  Vandenberg.  Wayne  T 
Wirtanen.  flobert  C  Young 

CLASS  OF  1968 

Joseph  S.  Adamik.  Jr..  Francis  L.  Addessio.  flobert  E.  Anders* 
Arnold  J.  Antak.  Albert  J.  Aftermeyer.  Michael  J.  Babin.  Rober 
A.  Balducci.  Robert  E.  Buimut.  R.  Gregory  Balmer.  *David  C.I, 
Baxter.  William  R.  Belisle.  *Norman  A.  Bergstrom.  Jr..  Kennfll 
fl.  Blaisdell.  Alan  J.  Blanchard.  Edward  H.  Borgeson,  John  J.  I 
Bresnahan,  Jr..  Stephen  J.  Brodeur,  John  M.  Burns,  Victor 
V.  Calabretta.  Jr..  W.  Edward  Catterall.  Frank  T  Check.  Jr..  I 
Q.  Coiognesi.  Dr.  Norman  W.  Cook.  Daniel  C.  Creamer, 
David  P.  Crockett,  flonald  E.  Danielson.  George  Davagian.  Jr., 
*Robert  H.  Deflesco.  Jr..  *flobert  R.  Demers,  Henry  J.  Deronck. 
*Michael  A.  DiPierro.  William  F.  Dunham,  Jr..  Neil  W.  Durkee. 
*Pentti.  O.  Eloiampi,  Robert  A.  Falciani.  David  A.  Farr. Douglas 
G.  Ferry.  *Robert  J.  Gallo.  George  F.  Gamache.  Thomas  A. 
Geiormino.  H.  Paxson  Gifford.  Jr..  William  J.  Giokas.  Michael  T 
Glynn.  Cobb  S.  Goff.  Ronald  F.  GoJuszewski.  David  J.  Gumbiey, 
Berton  H.  Gunter.  Steven  C.  Halsfadt.  Edward  M   rfarpei r, 
Geoffrey  L.  Hartung.  *Robert  D.  Hickev.  Joseph  F.  Hilyurd,  *Jol 
H.  Holmes.  George  T.  Kane.  Joseph  J.  Kasabula.  Chester  J. 
Kusper.  Paul  S.  Kennedy.  Prof.  Walter  A.  Kistler.  Douglas  WX 
Kiauber.  "Charles  D.  Konopka.  John  J.  Kraska.  Jr..  George  H 
Londoner.  Michael  R.  Latino,  Andrew  A.  Lesick.  Walter  C.    I 
Lynick.  *John  D.  MacDougall.  Jr..  David  R.  Martin.  Peter  L.    j 
Marzetta.  Philip  A.  Matfson.  Paul  D.  Matukuitis.  flichard  A.  I 
Mayer.  John  S.  Ma/ur.  William  I.  McCann.  Jr..  Peter  F. 
McKit  trick,  Robert  Meader,  Joseph  C  Nappi,  William  E.  NevM 

Robert  A    Nichols.  Joseph  F    (Mens  111.  Sung  Paik  II.  Curv  A. 


.  Joseph  L.  Paquette.  James  M.  Perkins.  Barrie  M. 

on.  Stephen  W.  Petroff.  Robert  T.  PJeines.  RonoJd  A. 

.  James  J.  Powers.  Dr.  Roger  W.  Pryor.  Stephen  M.  Pytkci. 

md  F.  Racine.  WiJJiam  J.  Rasku.  *David  H.  Rice.  CharJes  A. 

i.  DanieJ  R.  Roy.  Richard  E.  Roy.  *Peter  A.  SaJtz.  Richard  J. 

Joel  S.  SchoenhoJtz,  Stephen  C.  Schwarm.  Jeffrey  H. 

?J.  Richard  H.  Seymour.  Jack  S.  Siegei.  James  F.  Sinnamon. 

3  R.  Skoglund.  Richard  A.  Snay.  Gregory  H.  Sovas.  Peter  C. 

y.  WiJJiam  P.  Stanton.  Paui  F.  Stasko.  J.  Kevin  SuJJivan, 

A.  Swercewski.  Geoffrey  P.  Tamulonis,  FrankJyn  H 

.  Marshall  fi.  Taylor.  William  D.  Travis.  E.  Wayne 

fom.  StanJey  F.  Urbanowski,  Jr..  James  M.  WendeJJ.  Robert 

ey.  Frank  S.  Yazwinski  JJI 

S  OF  1969 

r  M.  A/rame.  Capt.  Warren  L.  Anderson,  Stephen  R. 
ichow.  James  P.  Atkinson.  Gerald  S.  AxeJrod,  *Roberf  C. 
.  Craig  R.  Harrows.  James  F.  BaxendaJe.  WiJJiam  A. 
i.  Anthony  Bergantino.  Jr..  Kenneth  B.  Berube.  Harvey  S. 
baum.  WiJJiam  J.  Boyan.  Cameron  P.  Boyd.  James  M.  Boyd. 

F.  BradJey,  Kenneth  L.  Case.  JoeJ  J.  Cehn.  Brian  D.  Chace. 
ivid  W.  CJark,  *George  G.  Davenport  Iff.  Richard  W. 
d.  Roger  E.  Dennison.  Larry  P.  Dexter,  CharJes  T.  Doe, 

E.  Doran.  Jr.,  RonoJd  J.  Drozdick.  Andrew  F.  Durette, 
-y  B.  Enz,  Stephen  A.  Erikson,  Arthur  H.  Evans  JJJ,  Stephen 
.her.  James  W.  Foley.  *Warren  F.  Follett.  Alfred  G. 
;rg.  Richard  C.  Furman.  Dr.  EmanueJ  F.  Furst.  *DougJas  J. 
3.  Mark  S.  Gerber.  Neil  M.  GJickstein.  Bruce  M.  Green. 

Greene.  Edward  L.  Griffith.  Jr..  Peter  T.  Grosch.  Richard 
)ss.  Richard  H.  Gurske.  William  E.  Hallock.  *James  W. 
.  Paul  F.  Hayner.  Jr..  David  G.  Healey,  Andrew  J. 
i.  John  M.  Hiscock.  Gregory  T.  Hopkins.  Jeffrey  A.  Hynds, 
H.  Johnson.  RonaJd  L.  Jones,  CharJes  A.  KaJauskas, 
hdas  V.  Kantesaria,  Lawrence  Katzman.  Kenneth  W. 
.  *E.  David  Kuenzler.  Joseph  A.  Langone.  Gary  L. 
haJ.  Dr.  WaJdo  M.  Libbey.  DanieJ  P.  Lorusso,  *AJexander 
coim.  Lt.  David  J.  Manchester.  Thomas  F.  X.  McAuiiffe. 
d  A.  Mierzejewski,  Lawrence  A.  Minkoff.  Douglas  H. 
h.  Michael  W.  Noga.  Paul  V.  Norkevicius.  John  J.  Pace, 
d  H.  PaJm.  Ralph  C.  Pastore.  Shashikant  M.  Patei.  AJvin  B. 
Robert  A.  Perkins.  Andrew  T.  PerreauJt.  Kenneth  M. 

Stephen  E.  Platz.  *John  F.  PobJocki.  *DanieJ  C.  Pond.  David 
't.  AJ/red  F.  Prentice.  MichaeJ  J.  PunchekunneJ.  DonaJd  F. 
Robert  B.  Reidy.  DonaJd  E.  Robinson.  Stephen  O.  Rogers. 

J.  Rose.  James  V.  Rossi.  Kent  F.  Rothammer.  Rene  J.  Roy. 

J.  Scott.  Thomas  Semprebon.  Vinubhai  J.  Shah.  Donald  L. 

Paul  T.  Shea.  *Barry  N.  Shif/rin.  Mark  S.  Simpson, 
s  W.  Skwira.  Stephen  W.  Spakowsky.  Raymond  B.  Stanley. 
•  Surabian.  David  W.  Swenson.  John  A.  Taylor.  David 
.  *B.  Lee  Tuttie.  MichaeJ  J.  Wanczyk.  Jr..  Richard  J. 
n.  Ronnie  L.  Wendelken.  Leon  F.  Wendeiowski.  Paul  S. 


SPECIAL 

CLASS  ACCOUNTS 

During  the  year,  thoughtful  gifts  were  received 
from  the  following  individuals  for  their  special 
anniversary  class  gift  accounts.  On  behalf  of  each 
of  these  classes,  a  warm  thank  you  is  extended  to 
each  of  the  donors  listed  below: 

CLASS  OF  1927 

George  J.  Heckman,  Howard  F.  Stephenson 
Total  Gifts:  $60.00 

CLASS  OF  1930 

Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Roscoe  H.  Bowers,  John  W. 
Burt,  Waldemar  E.  Carlson,  Charles  H.  Cole,  John 
W.  Conley,  Herbert  W.  Davis,  William  H.  Doyle, 
Charles  R.  Fay,  Stanley  H.  Fillion,  Myrton  P. 
Finney,  Albert  M.  Goodnow,  Carmelo  S.  Greco, 
Allan  L.  Hall,  Lincoln  B.  Hathaway,  Herbert  F. 
Hillis,  Robert  E.  Hollick,  Francis  E.  Kennedy, 
Raymond  C.  Lewis,  Aarne  A.  Luoma,  George  A. 
Marston,  Daniel  F.  O'Grady,  Christos  L. 
Orphanides,  John  R.  Parker,  Fred  P.  Peters,  Philip 
M.  Seal,  George  W.  Stratton,  John  H.  Sylvester. 
Dr.  Joseph  T.  Tawter,  Alvin  E.  Thrower,  Vernon  E. 
Wade,  John  H.  Wells,  Harold  G.  Williamson 
Total  Gifts:  $6,951.86 

CLASS  OF  1931 

Edward  J.  Bayon,  Harold  T.  Cutler,  Ralph 
Hodgkinson,  Russell  J.  Libbey,  Philip  J.  Pierce,  Carl 
E.  Rylander,  Charles  E.  Woodward 
Total  Gifts:  $1,316.00 

CLASS  OF  1957 

Dr.  Rene  R.  Bertrand,  Donald  G.  Craig,  Alvin  C. 
Lanson,  Collins  M.  Pomeroy,  Keith  O.  Preston, 
Donald  B.  Rising,  Dr.  Robert  A.  Yates 
Total  Gifts:  $250.00 


GIVING  BY  FRATERNITY 


raternity 

hi  Kappa  Theta 
hi  Sigma  Kappa 
heta  Chi 

ambda  Chi  Alpha 
.lpha  Tau  Omega 
hi  Gamma  Delta 
igma  Phi  Epsilon 
igma  Alpha  Epsilon 
Jpha  Epsilon  Pi 
'au  Kappa  Epsilon 
igma  Pi 
lelta  Sigma  Tau 

ub  Total  Fraternities 
Ion-Fraternity 

irand  Total 


#  Alumni 

#Cont. 

%  Giving 

Total  Giving 

Avg.  Gift 

755 

308 

40.8 

$20,012.54 

$  64.98 

713 

297 

41.6 

19,287.83 

64.94 

744 

324 

43.6 

19,009.55 

58.67 

685 

303 

44.23 

18,066.15 

59.62 

710 

302 

42.5 

17,163.57 

56.83 

640 

255 

39.8 

15,637.00 

61.32 

763 

350 

45.9 

15,388.34 

43.97 

672 

292 

43.4 

11,984.67 

41.04 

431 

177 

41.1 

7,885.68 

44.55 

235 

74 

31.4 

2.266.96 

30.63 

125 

30 

24.0 

720.00 

24.00 

65 

17 

26.1 

477.00 

28.05 

6538 

2729 

41.7 

147,899.29 

54.20 

5043 

1376 

27.3 

67,670.58 

49.18 

11581 

4105 

35.45 

$  215,569.87 

$  52.51 

CLASS  OF  1970 

W.  Todd  Akin.  Robert  A.  Anschutz.  Merico  E.  Argentati.  Gregory 
W.  Backsfrom.  /times  F.  Bagaglio.  Philip  D.  Burtlelt.  Jr..  Capt. 
Francis  L.  Belisle.  Jr..  'Peter  /.  Billington.  'Peter  G.  Bluden. 
Henrv  R.  Block.  Gerrv  A.  Blodgett.  /ohn  T.  Bok.  Daniel  K.  Breen. 
*David  H.  Brown.  V\'iJiiam  S.  Coblenz.  Herbert  W.  Coulter  HI. 
Robert  C.  Cournover.  Stephen  fi.  Crosby,  David  B.  Darner. 
Douglas  /.  Dayton.  Dinkar  V.  Desai.  *RuJph  A.  Di  Iorio.  Dwight  S. 
Dickerman.  Andrew  M  Donaldson.  William  F.  Dudzik.  Domenic 
/.  Forcella.  Jr..  lames  F.  Ford.  Francis  IV.  Gardner  III.  Robert  W. 
Goff.  Robert  J.  Grillo.  'William  J.  Hckkinen.  Alan  F.  Hassett. 
Thomas  D   Heinold.  William  G.  Hillner.  *Paul  D.  Himottu.  Harris 

C.  Hoivland.  /.  Randall  Huber.  George  M.  Iszlui.  *Roberf  C. 
Keen  an.  David  F.  Kendrick.  Roger  /.  Kern.  Lothar  W.  Kleiner. 
MeJvin  R.  Kopel.  Stephen  G.  Koshgarian.  Donald  T.  Kremer.  Paul 
R.  LaPiunte.  Kent  C.  Lawson.  Thaddeus  /.  Lelek.  1/Lf.  Daniel  W. 
Lewis,  /ohn  f.  Lyons.  *Timathy  J.  Mackie.  /ohn  F.  Malley.  Jeffrey 
C   Manty.  Paul  E.  Medeiros.  Frank  D.  Meoli.  James  A.  Metzler. 
Alan  H.  Miller.  *Peter  R.  Miner.  Michael  T.  Moylan.  Vinay  V. 
Mudhoikar.  Robert  /.  Mulcahy.  Alexander  Murdoch.  Bradford  R. 
Mvrick.  Kalvin  W.  \goon.  W.  Stuart  Nickerson.  Alan  /. 
Nizamoff.  John  P.  Ober.  Raymond  T.  Pajer.  William  D.  Parent. 
John  A.  Pelli.  Robert  Pettirossi.  George  E.  Philippon.  Gerald  E. 
Piepiora.  F.  David  Ploss  III.  *Leonard  Polizzotto.  Frank  B. 

Pope,  /r ..  David  F.  Pouliot.  /oseph  R.  Radosevich.  *John  K. 
Redman.  Bruce  S.  Robinson.  Richard  B.  Rock.  David  T.  Rockwell. 
William  M.  Bolya.  Michael  E.  Santom.  Ralph  F.  Sbrogna.  E. 
Richard  Scholz.  Marc  E.  Schweig.  /ames  L.  Schwing.  Leon  R. 
Scruton.  /ames  W.  Small.  Robert  W.  Sof/el.  Richard  H. 
Steeves.  /ohn  W.  Sztuka.  Jr..  John  O.  Tarpinian.  2nd  Lt.  Jeffrey 
H.  Thurston,  /ames  P.  Troupes.  Steven  A.  Udell.  Francis  A. 
Vernile.  Ross  E.  Weaver.  Ross  A.  Willoughby.  *Aian  O. 
Zabarsky,  Louis  W.  Zitnay.  *Frank  /.  Zone.  Jr. 

CLASS  OF  1971 

/ames  K.  Abraham.  Robert  /.  A/lard.  Jr..  Harold  B.  Alter.  John  E. 
Anderson.  Martin  K.  Anderson.  Robert  A.  Anderson.  Richard  A. 
Arena.  'George  /.  Bakevich.  Alan  E.  Bedard.  /oseph  P.  Bellino. 
William  R.  Beloff.  *Todd  A.  Benjamin.  *Raymond  J.  Biszko. 
*Robert  G.  Blaisdell.  John  J.  Boursy.  Jr..  Ellen  L.  Brueck.  David  P. 
Buelow.  Robert  M.  Byrne.  *Frank  J.  Calcagno.  Richard  J.  Carroll. 
Philip  Cianciotto.  *James  F.  Crittenden.  Carleton  E.  Cruff, 
Edward  F.  Cunningham.  *Daniel  E.  Demers.  *David  J.  Demers, 
Gregory  S.  Dickson.  Stephen  A.  Diming.  *Allen  H.  Downs.  Lt. 
/oseph  A.  Dumais.  Reginald  G.  Dunlap.  Richard  E.  Dynia.  Steven 
G.  Emerv.  Dr.  Irving  Englson.  Steven  H.  Face.  James  R.  Fay.  Dr. 
Baljif  S.  Gambhir.  Michael  J.  Gitlen.  Jack  B.  Greenshields  IJ. 
'William  E.  Helliwell.  Jr..  Richard  B.  Hopewell.  2  Lt.  John  C. 
Johnson.  Philip  M.  Johnson.  Robert  F.  Johnson.  Timothy  C. 
/ohnson.  Thomas  /.  Kaminski,  'Benjamin  H.  Katcoff.  Joseph  B. 
Kaye,  *Doug/as  A.  Keiiy.  /ohn  /.  Laramee.  Gary  J.  Larson.  Jeffrey 
P.  Lassey.  William  C.  Leslie,  William  G.  Light.  John  A.  Lind.  *Jarl 

D.  Linden.  Dr.  Richard  P.  Lindsay.  Jack  L.  Lipsey.  Harry  E. 
Lockery,  Nicola  Lostracco.  Edward  C.  Lowe  11/.  Larry  R.  Lyman. 
Theodore  D   Lynch,  Qaude  P.  Mance/.  Ramon  J.  Martinez.  Aldo 
1.   Mar/efta.  Jr..  Gary  R.  Mason.  Richard  /.  Mattes.  *Scott  T. 
McCandless.  Gregg  G.  McWeenev.  Bipinchandra  I.  Mehta. 
Robert  A    Muir.  Jr..  David  P.  Murphy.  */ohn  A.  Niestemski.  Jr. 
Herbert  T  Nock.  *Dr.  Sander  E.  Nydick.  Kevin  W.  O'Connell. 
John  H   Oscarson,  \'incenf  T  Pace.  Ens.  Paul  /.  Pakus.  Robert  A. 
Payne.  Donald  K.  Peterson.  *Eugene  E.  Pettineili.  Richard  S. 
Peitryka,  Paul  B.  Popinchaik,  Louis  M.  Pul/.ctti.  'Lawrence  E. 
Ramvilic.  John  H.  Head.   Thomas  N.  Rogers.  Jr..  Walter  R.  flotti. 

Abbas  A  Salim.  Petei  A  Satis,  'Richard  P.  San  Antonio. 
Michael  S  Santora,  WiUiam  A   Sherman,  /ohn  R.  Shotlitf.  Robert 
\f  Sinicrope,  Stephen  C  Siok,  Gerald  R.  Spring,  William  /.  St. 

liilairr.  Donald  P   St.  Mane.  Dennis  /.  Staba.  'Robert  defl  Stein. 
Frank  W  Steiner,  Albert  W  Stromquist,  Jr..  'Paul  B.  Sullivan. 
Hifliani  E  Teitelman,  Bruce  R.  Tompkins,  *Noel  Totti  HI.  'Robert 
I  Tranchimotvicz,  LI   lames  E  Troutman,  Jv .  Paul  I  Trudeau, 
Di   Richard  A  Tu/t.  Donald /.  Usher.  Thomas  0  Vandeventer, 
'Ravindra  K  Vom.  Thomas  1/  Wadleigh,  Thornton  If  Waite, 
Francis  I  Wehner,  li     William  R   V\'ln/ivnrf|i.  fr.,  David  M. 
Winer  Dana  1/  U'ortlilev.  Elden  E  York,  'Michael  P  Zarrilli 

CLASS  OF  1972 

lames  /  Aitoonian  Mark  ',  Andrews,  Steven  v  Batiks, 
'Douglas  E  Rest.  Ralph  A  Biackmer,  John  M  lUm^lrll,  Charles 
I  Brine,  'Raymond  W  Coleman,  Vincent  I  (.'ohmem.  //  Hulicrt 
alp,  lolm  t,  Cro/t,  b  Andrew  I  Cucchiara,  'Samuel  / 
/itch,  fr  Petei  I  Daupern,  Dennis  |  Davoren,  William  II 
Degutis  'Michael  P  Di  Benedetto,  'Stephen  /'  Diguette,  Edwin  I 
Dojph.  Mark  C  Dupuis,  Michael  I  Emery,  John  R  Ferraro  lolm 
D  Fate)   f,or\  A   roote,  Marii  A   Frite  LI  Adrien  I. 


Gaudreau.  /r..  Andrew  J.  Glazier.  Joseph  G.  Harkins.  Neil  C. 
Herring.  Jeffrey  S.  Hunter.  Rae  H.  Johnson.  Jr.,  Theodore  D. 
Johnson.  Stephen  C.  Joseph,  John  D.  Kaletski.  Kenneth  W. 
Kolkebeck.  Vahe  Krikorian,  James  V.  Lacy.  Patrick  F.  Lafayet 
Roy  Lampinski.  'Richard  L.  Logan.  Anthony  B.  Longo.  Jr..  Dan 
A.  Lusardi.  Michael  K.  Malone.  Anthony  J.  Mangano.  Jr.,  Dav. 
A.  Meyer.  John  C.  Moore  JIJ.  Robert  M.  Pascucci.  Edward  G. 
Perkins.  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Jeffrey  A.  Petry.  'Donald  J.  Polonis.  Larn 
Prickett.  Wilfred  L.  Prue,  Marcello  A.  Ranalli,  'Gary  E.  Rand! 
Raymond  P.  Roberge.  Raymond  W.  Scanlon,  Keith  Simons. 
Richard  A.  Sojka.  Joseph  M.  Szlosek.  Bruce  M.  Szypot,  James 
Tarpey.  Hubert  J.  Thompson.  Thomas  J.  Tracy,  *Richard  S. 
Tumolo,  Clifton  E.  Wheeler,  Jon  R.  Wimer.  Kurt  M.  Wusterbai 
Mr.  &  Mrs.  John  Zorabedian.  Jr. 

CLASS  OF  1973 

Anonymous.  Alan  C.  Aho,  Robert  E.  Akie.  'Robert  M.  Andel, 
Warren  G.  Anderson.  William  N.  Ault.  Bruce  J.  Baker,  Fred  $ 
Banach,  Conrad  J.  Baranowski.  'John  W.  Barry.  'Richard  B. 
Belmonte.  Fermo  A.  Bianchi,  Jr.,  William  A.  Birkemeier,  Richa 
H.  Birkenshaw,  Richard  J.  Bors.  Garry  A.  Boynton.  Paul  J. 
Brown,  Jr..  Steven  M.  Buba.  Leo  Buchakjian.  James  R.  Buell. 
Jason  J.  Burbank.  James  F.  Burke.  Jr..  William  G.  Catlow.  ThoA 
P.  Cawley.  Paul  A.  Christian,  *Philip  N.  Ciarlo.  David  P.  Cirkal 
Paul  H.  Clark.  William  }.  Cloutier,  R.  Lee  Cooper.  William  E.    > 
Cormier.  'Thomas  &  Kathryn  Dagostino.  'James  W.  Davis,  /oh 
F.  DiGregorio,  James  P.  Dimilia,  Thomas  J.  Dutkiewicz.  Lawren 
Dzaugis.  Alexander  W.  Dzialo.  Michael  J.  Fazio.  Thomas  H.  1 
Field  JJL  Conrad  B.  Fong,  'Gene  L.  Franke,  Timothy  A.  Frenctt 
Steven  E.  Gallant,  'Deborah  F.  Goodwin.  'Stephen  H.  Goodwjj 
George  J.  Grunbeck,  William  P.  Haddad,  Robert  C.  Haywood,! 
Roger  J.  Heinen.  William  E.  Henries.  John  J.  Homko.  'David  B. 
Hubbell.  M.  Erik  Husby,  Roger  T.  James.  'Edward  S.  Jamro.    ) 
Stephen  M.  Johnson,  Stephen  E.  Kaminski.  Frank  A.  Kania.     ! 
Richard  L.  Kirk.  Joshua  O.  Kolawole.  Stephen  R.  Koral,  DonaM 
Koski.  Christopher  M.  Kralik.  Frederick  J.  Kulas.  David  A. 
Kuiczyk.  'John  A.  Kulig.  Ronald  J.  Lak.  Robert  S.  Leach.  MauB 

D.  LeTourneau.  Robert  F.  Levi,  Frederick  C.  Levitsky.  David    I 
Ligeikis.  Michael  A.  Lucey.  Terrence  P.  Luddy.  John  J.  Luikey, 
Joseph  J.  Magri.  Tin  W.  Mah.  Kenneth  M.  Makowski,  Peter  D.j 
McDermott.  Wallace  McKenzie.  Philip  S.  Medeiros.  Paul  W.    ] 
Melnick,  Michael  E.  Merkle.  'Richard  R.  Nabb.  Aram 
Nahabedian.  'Louis  Nashelsky,  William  J.  Nieranowski.  Brucd 
Nunn,  John  A.  Ogorzalek.  Maryann  Pace.  Edmund  C.  PastoreJ 
Joseph  D.  Pault.  Bill  C.  Penney,  William  J.  Ploran,  Albert  P. 
Popoli,  Daniel  H.  Prior.  Leonard  E.  Redon.  'Rand  Refrigeri. 
James  A.  Risotti.  Daniel  E.  Robbins,  'Wayne  E.  Schweidenbacl 
'Charles  P.  Scopelitis.  William  M.  Sherry.  Henry  S.  Siegel. 
Richard  F.  Silvestris.  Stephen  R.  SJavick.  Russell  J.  Smith.  Jr.,  1 
'Richard  F.  Socha.  Norman  D.  Staller.  Joseph  J.  Staszowski.   I 
Wayne  T  Stolle,  Robert  C.  Sykes,  C.  Stephen  Szlatenyi.  Jr.. 
Robert  N.  Torbin.  Robert  G.  Tougher.  Thomas  H.  Uccellini. 
Anthony  R.  LJr;iJ.  Jr.,  'Ralph  J.  Veenema.  Jr..  Harvey  A. 
Vigneault,  John  H.  Ward.  'David  C.  Wason.  Richard  WhippleJ 
Andrew  B.  White.  Mark  D.  Whitley.  John  A.  Williams.  Jr..  KdJ 
S.  Williams.  Nancy  E.  Wood.  Robert  R.  Wood.  Robert  /.  Zawal 
John  N.  Zikopoulos 

CLASS  OF  1974 

Ann  E.  Anderson.  Ens.  James  M.  Asaro.  Garry  P.  Balboni.  All 

E.  Barrett,  Jr..  Bruce  R.  Beaupre.  Michel  R.  Benoit.  David  W. 
Black.  Douglas  R.  Bor^atti.  Clayton  E.  Boyce,  Wayne  M.  Bryai 
Leonard  J.  Brzozowski.  Thomas  /.  Burns.  2  Lt.  Christopher  S. 
Qgal,  Robert  P.  Cikatz.  John  E.  D'Amico,  Gene  E 
William  A.  Delphos.  David  P.  Demers.  William 
E.  Downey.  Mark  W.  Downing.  Mary  E.  Downing 
Fieldsend,  William  F.  Frazier.  Michael  D.  Graham.  Alan  C 
Hallquist,  Robert  M.  Hodgson,  Alan  J.  Kirby,  Chester  Kotows 
Michael  I   Kozakiewicz,  Bruce  K.  Lackey.  Roland  A.  Larivien 
George  M.  Leanna,  Jr.,  Edward  J.  Ledden,  John  P.  Lord. 
Michelle  A.  Lord,  Lawrence  /.  Martiniano.  Donn  M.  Mo/teson. 
Russell  B.  Ndber,  Mark  E.  Ostergren.  Stephen  C  Page.  John  H. 
Paiitsch,  Lawrence  D.  Patty.  Gerard  F.  Petit,  Peter  J.  Petrosfl 
Robert  |    Pigeon.  Gary  G.  Ponfbriand.  Stephen  /.  Rem  en,  lames 
Rubino,  Joseph  R,  Strempek,  Michael  C.  Tanca,  WiUiam  P 
Tanguay,  Pt'tor  A.  Thacner,  Anthony  N.  Tomasiello.  Robert  S. 
["rotter,  Pi'ta  W.  Tunnicli/fe,  Charles  M.  Waldron,  Irene  R. 

IA aldron,  David  R,  Washburn.  Bruce  T  Work 

OTHER  CONTRIBIJTORS 

Mis  Robert  II  Goddard,  Mrs  Svlvia  I!  Greene,  Mrs.  Archit 

B    HoSSOCk,  Class  of  l'.)7r) 


Christopher  S. 
E.  De/ackome,l 
/.  Dewkett,  JoM 

ng.  Tom  H. 


1929 


?  on  which  these  class  notes  are  based 
>een  received  by  the  Alumni  Association 
lovember  15,  when  it  was  compiled  for 
on.  Information  received  after  that  date 
sed  in  succeeding  issues  of  the  WPI 


>8 


D.  Simonds  is  now  residing  on 
>hore  Rd.  in  South  Hero,  Vermont. 


0 


ss  meeting  held  at  WPI  before  the 
luncheon  on  June  7,  Edward  A. 
i/as  elected  president.  Those  present 
ng  were,  Millard  Clement,  Alvan 
Leonard  Howell,  Oliver  Jacobs, 
Martin,  and  Edward  Hanff. 
her  official  business  being  presented, 
nent  was  taken  to  the  1910  dial  in  the 
:ront  of  Boynton  Hall  where  the  class 
nion  picture  was  taken.  After  the 
i  few  observations  were  recalled  from 
!,  small  voice"  of  the  dial  to  be 
ed  for  publication  later, 
members  unable  to  attend  the 
were  Carlisle  Atherton,  Charles 
Ralph  Gold,  Irving  Peters,  and 
viss. 

Submitted  by  Millard  Clement 


S.  Crandon  serves  as  consultant  to 
ident  at  ASG  Industries,  Inc.,  Little 
n,  R.I. 


ott's  health  is  improving  and  he  is 
e  to  play  golf  again  as  well  as  get  up 
high  country. 


8 


C.  Adams,  an  active  member  of  the 
tiquet  Trout  Club  in  Weston,  Vt., 
i  complete  fly  fishing  outfit  to  a 
i  the  next  camp  last  August,  later 
Dut  that  the  visitor  was  Edwin  C. 
ell,  '43.  They  report  that  the  setting 
feet  for  Tech  storytelling. 


Edward  E.  Lane,  who  for  many  years  was 
eastern  division  manager  for  North  American 
Press,  Milwaukee,  has  retired. 


1931 


On  the  retired  list  is  Robert  Bumstead,  who 
was  vice  president  and  conservation  director 
at  MFB  Mutual  Insurance  Co.  in  Providence, 
R.I.  .  .  .  Formerly  the  university  engineer  at 
the  University  of  North  Carolina,  F.  Dudley 
Chaffee  is  now  retired.  .  .  .  William  P. 
Dennison  is  also  retired.  He  was  a  district 
project  engineer  for  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Public  Works.  .  .  .  Henry  F. 
Friel  is  product  manager  at  Wire  Conveyor 
Belts  Inc.  in  Easton,  Md.  Previously  he  was  a 
senior  engineer  at  CF&I  Steel  Corp.,  Palmer, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Sumner  F.  Hall,  president  and 
treasurer  of  CD.  Hall,  Inc.,  Webster,  Mass., 
is  a  retiree.  .  .  .  Ralph  Hodgkinson,  who 
had  been  director  of  craft  demonstrations  at 
Old  Sturbridge  Village,  retired  last  December. 
.  .  .  After  working  for  E.I.  du  Pont  de 
Nemours  Co.  in  Philadelphia  for  many  years, 
Oscar  W.  Tissari  has  retired.  ...  A.  Francis 
Townsend  has  retired  from  his  duties  at 
Persons-Majestic  Mfg.  Co.  in  Worcester. 


1932 


Robert  I.  Belmont  retired  last  February.  He 
had  been  North  East  regional  manager  for 
Bay  State  Abrasives  in  Westboro,  Mass. 


1933 


Ethan  D.  Bassett  is  with  Electronic  Coils, 
Inc.,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Allen  L. 
Brownlee,  general  manager  of  the  WICO 
Electric  Co.,  West  Springfield,  Mass.,  has 
been  name'd  a  director  of  the  West 
Springfield  Chamber  of  Commerce.  A 
registered  professional  engineer,  he  holds  14 
patents  for  inventions  in  this  country  and 
others  in  Great  Britain  and  Canada.  At  the 
time  when  WICO  was  acquired  by  the 
Prestolite  Co.  (a  division  of  Electra  Corp.)  in 
1967,  Mr.  Brownlee  was  vice  president  of  the 
company.  He  is  a  director  and  member  of  the 
executive  committee  of  Junior  Achievement, 
a  Boys  Club  trustee,  and  past  officer  and 
director  of  the  Westfield  YMCA.  .  .  .  R. 
Norman  Clark  is  an  abrasive  engineer  at 
Waltham  Grinding  Wheels  in  Manchester, 
Mass. 

Harry  T.  Jensen,   vice  president  of 
engineering  at  the  Sikorsky  Aircraft  division 
of  United  Technologies,  Bridgeport,  Conn., 
has  been  promoted  to  the  newly-created  post 
of  vice  president  of  technology.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  appraising  and  planning  the 
division's  technical  and  engineering  programs 
and  their  relation  to  Sikorsky's  business 
goals.  Since  joining  the  company  in  1941,  he 
has  served  as  engineering  manager,  chief 
engineer,  and  chief  test  engineer.  He  holds 
patents  on  aircraft  design  and  test  methods 
and  is  a  fellow  of  the  American  Helicopter 
Society,  the  Royal  Aeronautical  Society,  and 
an  associate  fellow  of  the  American  Institute 
of  Aeronautics  and  Astronautics. 


wesiey  o.  need  combined  his  clever 
humor  and  fine  bass  voice  in  his  musical 
presentation,  "Music  from  the  Attic",  which 
was  a  highlight  of  a  bicentennial  program 
given  in  East  Haddam,  Conn,  last  September. 
He  demonstrated  a  hammer  dulcimer,  a 
plucked  dulcimer,  a  pseudo-English  cittern, 
and  several  homemade  psaltries.  Recently 
retired  as  a  senior  physicist  from  American 
Optical  Corp.,  he  plans  to  open  his  30-year 
collection  of  over  250  musical  items  to  the 
public  as  a  museum. 


1934 


Harold  B.  Bell,  former  purchasing  agent  for 
Hobbs  Mfg.,  Worcester,  is  now  retired.  .  .  . 
Merritt  E.  Cutting  has  retired  as  a  chemist 
at  Barre  Wool  Combing  Co.,  South  Barre, 
Mass.,  where  he  was  employed  for  many 
years.  .  .  .  Albert  T.  Phelps,  who  served  as 
assistant  chief  engineer  at  the  Savage  Arms 
Division  of  Emhart  Corp.,  Westfield,  Mass., 
has  retired.  ...  Dr.  Gordon  P.  Whitcomb  is 
a  retiree.  He  was  manager  of  college  relations 
at  American  Cyanamid  Corporation. 


1935 


Frank  H.  Madigan,  who  served  as  a  district 
sales  manager  at  Norton  Co.  for  many  years, 
has  retired. 


1936 


Roger  W.  Bruce  has  joined  Persons-Majestic 
Mfg.  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  George  E. 
Rocheford  continues  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers,  Waltham,  Mass.  Present- 
ly he  is  assistant  chief  of  the  structural  sec- 
tion. .  .  .  C.  Norman  Svenson  is  a  retiree. 
He  was  a  standards  engineer  with  GE's  Aero 
Inst.  &  Prod.  Support  Division  in  Wilmington, 
Delaware. 


1938 


Formerly  a  staff  engineer  at  Caterpillar 
Tractor  Co.,  Donald  B.  Clark  has  been 
appointed  as  an  assistant  director  of  research 
in  charge  of  engineering  materials  work  at 
the  Peoria  (III.)  based  company.  He  joined 
Caterpillar  in  1971  as  a  staff  engineer  and 
was  promoted  to  administrative  staff  engineer 
two  years  ago.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Society  of  Automotive  Engineers  and  the 
American  Institute  of  Aeronautics  and 
Astronautics. 


1939 


Charles  H.  Amidon  of  Holden,  Mass.,  is  a 
self-employed  consultant.  .  .  .  David  H.  Hunt 
has  been  appointed  executive  vice  president 
of  the    Spencer  Turbine  Company.  Located 
in  Simsbury,  Conn.,  he  was  formerly  chief 
engineer,  then  vice  president  of  engineering 
prior  to  his  promotion.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1954.  .  .  .  Ward  D.  Messimer, 
former  vice  president  of  Illinois  Railway 
Equipment  Co.,  Chicago,  has  retired. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 47 


The  further  exploits  of  Foxy  Grandpa 


Remember  Foxy  Grandpa?  Ed  Delano, 
'30,  first  made  national  headlines  back 
in  1970  when  he  bicycled  from 
California  to  Massachusetts  to  attend  his 
40th  class  reunion  at  WPI. 

This  year  he  turned  70  and  decided 
to  celebrate  in  typical  Foxy  Grandpa 
fashion.  Not  only  did  he  bike  bom  his 
home  in  Vacaville,  California  to  Quebec- 
City,  Canada  (3260  miles!),  he  also 
journeyed  to  the  Veterans'  World 
Championships  in  Austria  where  he 
picked  up  an  armload  ot  trophies. 

"However,  now  I'm  known  as  'the 
Yankee  Kangaroo'  in  international  racing 
circles.''  he  chuckles.  "That's  because, 
even  though  I  represented  America,  1 
trained  with  the  Australian  team  at  the 
invitation  of  Cecil  Cripps,  secretary-trea- 
surer ot  the  Veteran  Cyclists' 
Association  of  Australia.'' 

Delano,  the  only  veteran  American 
cyclist  registered  for  the  race,  joined  the 
Aussies  in  Paris  in  August  to  train  for 
the  World  Cup  series  slated  to  be  held 
in  St.  Johann,  in  the  Tirol.  While  in 
Europe  he  trained,  toured,  or  raced  in 
France,  West  Germany,  Austria,  Italy, 
Holland,  and  Denmark. 

"We  traveled  trom  place  to  place  in 
a  bus  with  a  van  following  us  carrying 


our  bicycles,"  he  recalls. 

After  ten  days  of  training  in  St. 
Johann,  Foxy  Grandpa  placed  in  more 
than  half  ot  the  events,  even  though 
some  races  were  not  run  by  age  class. 
In  the  championship  race  he  placed  15th 
out  of  40  starters  trom  eight  countries. 
The  40  starters  represented  the  top 
veterans  in  the  world  with  35  racers  in 
the  60-year  bracket  and  five  in  the  70- 
year  bracket.  "The  oldest  was  76," 
Delano  reports. 

The  big  race,  held  on  August  22nd 
on  a  well-maintained  road  in  the  rugged 
foothills  of  the  Austrian  mountains,  was 
participated  in  by  veteran  cyclists,  with 
a  75-year-old  German  placing  eighth! 

"The  Australian  team  copped  the  cup 
in  the  35  to  40  year  class,"  says  Foxy 
Grandpa.  "Cecil  Cripps  himself  won 
third  in  the  50  to  55  class." 

Delano  feels  that  currently  the 
average  Australian  veteran  is  equal  in 
ability  to  an  American  10  years 
younger,  with  the  latter  growing  by 
leaps  and  bounds  each  year.  In  the  U.S. 
a  veteran  is  anyone  40  or  over. 

The  day  after  the  championship  race, 
Foxy  Grandpa  carried  the  U.S.  banner 
during  the  cyclists'  torchlight  parade 
which  wound  through  the  streets  of  St. 


Johann.  The  procession  ended  with 
awards  ceremony. 

"I  was  happy  to  receive  my  awar 
Delano  comments.  "But  I  wish  I  coi 
have  understood  German!" 

While  on  this,  his  first  trip  abroi 
Foxy  Grandpa  participated  in  a  num 
ot  other  races,  including  one  held  at 
Mantes,  France,  near  the  Seine  Rive 
northwest  ot  Paris.  He  was  the  olde< 
60  riders  by  10  years,  but  he  made 
better  time  than  five  of  them. 

"The  course  ran  through  several 
small  towns,"  Delano  says.  "And  th< 
police  were  out  in  force.  If  a  motori: 
tried  to  interfere  with  a  racer  at  an 
intersection,  the  gendarmes  would  w 
him  off  the  road  into  the  weeds." 

Foxy  Grandpa  nearly  panicked  on 
once — during  an  event  in  northern  I 
south  of  the  Brenner  Pass.  The  cours 
was  extremely  hilly  and  laced  with  I 
turns  and  turn-arounds.  "Everyone  r< 
out  of  sight  and  I  was  completely 
alone,"  he  recalls.  "I  was  afraid  that 
missed  a  turn-around.  I  had  no  passp 
with  me,  no  Italian  currency,  and  nd 
glasses.  Worst  ot  all,  I  didn't  rememl 
the  names  of  any  towns,  and  I  couldn't 
understand  Italian !" 

Finally  he  glimpsed  a  rider  ahead 
him  and  a  landmark  tunnel  located  n 
the  end  of  the  course.  "That  really  g 
the  adrenalin  going,"  he  says.  'I  knel 
then  that  I  had  only  a  mile  to  go." 

Foxy  Grandpa  made  a  firm  friend i 
during  the  race,  however.  "He  was! 
heavy-set  Italian,  who  was  a  bit  slow 
the  hills,"  he  reports.  "He  turned  oil 
be  a  month  older  than  I.  During  the 
awards  ceremony  they  had  us  on  stJ 
together.  They  presented  me  with  a. 
turtleneck  sweater  and  gave  us  each  J 
bottle  of  wine.  We  cemented  Italian- 
Australian  relations  on  the  spot.  We 
were  the  oldest  in  the  race." 

In  Koflach,  Austria,  Delano  coral 
in  a  19.5  kilometer  two-man  trial  an 
placed  lOth  out  of  20  teams.  While  i 
Koflach  he  placed  third  in  the  66-ail 
over  class,  racing  over  steep  mountatf 
roads.  "I  was  only  28  seconds  behind 
Eddy  Bisson,  who  was  good  enough  l 
get  his  picture  in  the  program,  savs 
Delano. 

Foxy  Grandpa  copped  another  thif 
place  in  the  King  ot  the  Mountain 
(summit)  competition.  "I  didn't  havl 
chance  to  train  for  this  particular  race 
he  reveals.  "If  I  had,  I  could  have  do 
better." 

In  Amsterdam  he  finished  the  5fl 
kilometer.  20-lap  course  at  the  Wiel 
CUrcuit  in  one  hour  and  1()  minutes. 
During  a  bicycle  tour  in  Denmark  In 
recalls,  "A  giant  blond  Dane  gave  rnl 
massive  push  up  a  hill  so  I  could  catC 
up  with  the  pack." 

"The  Danes  and  the  Austrians 

couldn't  do  enough  tor  us  to  make  oi 


48  WPI  Journal 


ilians  paid  him  the  singular  honor 
king  him  an  honorary  member  of 
:eam. 

d  what  of  Foxy  Grandma,  back 
in  Vacaville  while  her  Yankee 
•roo  was  off  in  Europe  living  his 
enging  and  unforgettable 
ence?"  One  has  to  believe  that 
used  to  such  goings-on.  It  took 
6  days  to  bike  to  his  40th  WP1 
»n  five  years  ago.  It  took  him 
35  days  to  pedal  his  Cinelli  to 
ec  City  early  last  summer.  ("The 
ians  gave  me  a  rousing  welcome, 
ete  with  police  escort.  They 
i  me  like  a  celebrity  and  invited 
the  guest  of  honor  to  a  dinner 
Zanadian  dignitaries — they  even 
,*d  me  into  the  bridal  suite  at  the 
ry  Inn,  dirty  bicycle  and  all,"  he 
ibers  fondly.) 

y  Grandpa  (so-named  by  his 
hildren)  does  not  forget  Foxy 
ma  on  his  cross-country  jaunts, 
ones  her  every  evening  from  his 
to  let  her  know  how  things  are 
She  also  makes  his  advance 
ations  when  necessary, 
prefers  touring  alone,  however, 
young  men  ride  too  fast  and  the 
en  too  slow,"  he  says.  "Besides, 
ing  to  the  old  adage,  'he  who 
alone  travels  best.' 
ano,  a  retired  superintendent  of 
ilifomia  State  Division  of 
ay  Maintenance,  knows  his 
y"  well.  Since  taking  up  cycling 
lest  12  years  ago  "to  relax",  he 
alked  up  40,000  miles  in  races 
urs.  He  has  maintained  champion 
for  four  years  at  the  Senior  Sports 
itional,  and  his  exploits  have 
sports  news  in  the  San  Francisco 
\er,  Los  Angeles  Times,  Sports 
f.ed,  and  Bicycling.  His  armload  of 
*s  from  the  World  Cup  races  held 
tria  last  summer,  turned  out  to  be 
•sting  on  the  cake, 
ist  goes  to  show  what  a  "Foxy 
-oo"  can  do! 

ipt 

we  went  to  press,  it  was  learned 
oxy  Grandpa  was  being  "studied" 
.  Irvin  Faria,  director  of  the 
n  Performance  Laboratory  and 
lan  of  the  men's  physical  education 
ment  at  the  University  of  Califor- 
Sacramento.  After  a  series  of 
us  tests  it  was  discovered  that 
o  had  apparently  reversed  the 
process  through  continued  exercise. 
r  as  a  college  athlete,  he  performs 
e  is  40,  and  at  70,  his  racing 
just  keep  getting  better, 
no,"  concludes  Dr.  Faria,  "is  a 
inusual  physiological  specimen, 
g  him  has  proved  that  the  aging 
s  can  be  reversed  and  that  is  quite 
lomenon." 

IHPI 


Ted  Lewis's 
annual  dream 


Twenty-two  vears  ago  Leonard  "Ted" 
Lewis,  '27,  a  Shriner  and  former  WPI 
gridster,  dreamed  or  seeing  his  Shrine 
and  football  interests  combined  to  help 
raise  money  for  crippled  and  burned 
children  confined  in  Shrine  hospitals 
throughout  the  U.S.  and  Canada. 

"Why  don't  we  sponsor  a  schoolboy 
football  classic  w  ith  the  proceeds  going 
to  help  such  children,"  he  asked  a 
fellow  Shriner. 

The  reply  was,  "Ted,  you've  got 
more  damned  courage  than  brains.  It 
will  never  work." 

Ted  Lewis,  a  Claremont,  N.H.  oil 
executive,  has  reason  to  smile  over  that 
remark.  In  two  decades  the  plan  that 
would  "never  work"  has  earned  over 
S500.000  for  crippled  children  and 
brought  summer  football  to  New 
England. 

"I  can't  take  complete  credit  for  the 
idea  behind  the  Vermont-New 
Hampshire  Shrine  Football  Classic"  he 
confides.  "As  New  Hampshire  Potentate 
I  attended  a  convention  in  Charlotte, 
N.C.  and  was  taken  to  a  Shrine  benefit 
football  game  where  a  lot  of  money  was 
raised.  I  felt  we  could  do  something 
similar  in  New  Hampshire  and 
Vermont. 

In  the  beginning  a  postseason  foot- 
ball game  was  planned.  The  New 
Hampshire  Interscholastic  Athletic  Asso- 
ciation advised  that  eligibility  rulings 


could  harm  the  players  so  a  summertime 
game  was  established.  "The  N.H. LA. A. 
gave  us  some  good  ideas  and  helped  us 
get  the  thing  going,"  Lewis  says. 

Originally  the  early  games  were  held 
in  various  locations  including  the 
Holman  Stadium  in  Nashua,  N.H., 
Cowell  Stadium  at  the  University  of 
New  Hampshire,  and  at  Centennial 
Field  at  the  University  of  Vermont. 

"Now  the  Classic  is  held  annually  at 
Dartmouth's  Memorial  Stadium  in 
Hanover,"  Lewis  reports.  "We  expect 
to  keep  it  there  for  as  long  as  the  game 
is  played." 

Memorial  Stadium  seats  about 
20,000  and  recently  the  game  has 
drawn  only  about  15,000  people.  Lewis 
worries  about  the  attendance  level. 
"The  response  from  most  Shriners,  as 
far  as  participation  goes,  has  been 
great,"  he  says.  "But  there  have  been 
weak  spots  which  should  be 
strengthened.  Also,  we  have  to  draw 
more  people  from  the  heavily-populated 
areas  like  Manchester  and  Concord." 

Still,  Lewis,  who  remains  an  active 
member  of  the  Shrine  Board  of  Gover- 
nors, has  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  his 
'brain-child'.  The  average  cost  per 
patient  in  a  Shrine  burns  hospital  is 
$13,000  and  the  cost  to  qualified 
parents  is  absolutely  nothing,  thanks  to 
such  Shrine  efforts  as  the  football 
classic.  Participating  Shriners  work  tire- 
lessly and  entirely  without  pay  for  the 
cause.  "We're  proud  to  say  no  one 
takes  a  dime,"  says  Lewis.  "Our 
greatest  satisfaction  is  restoring  life  and 
limb  to  a  burned  or  crippled  child." 


1944 


1940 


Richard  T.  Messinger,  a  resident  of 
Norwell,  Mass.,  is  a  self-employed  insurance 
broker. 


1941 


.  .  .  Norman  C.  Bergstrom  serves  as  a 
supervisor  at  U.S.  Steel  Corp.  in  Gary, 
Indiana.  .  .  .  Philip  L.  Camp  is  currently  with 
the  Electric  Boat  division  of  General 
Dynamics  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Previously 
with  Hercoform  Marketing,  Inc.,  a  Hercules 
subsidiary,  Robert  S.  Fleming  now  serves  as 
a  project  engineer  in  the  engineering 
department  at  Hercules  Incorporated, 
Wilmington,  Delaware. 


After  spending  22  years  as  a  missionary  in 
India,  the  Rev    Edward  G.  Jacober  will  now 
do  missionary  work  in  Israel  with  the  Arabs  in 
Jerusalem  and  the  West  Jordan  area. 

Victor  A.  Kolesh  works  for  Riley  Stoker 
in  Worcester      .  .  The  Norman  Morrisons 
visited  the  Harold  E.  Robertons  last 
summer  on  their  way  from  Glacier  National 
Park,  Montana  to  Seattle,  Washington,  and 
Vancouver,  British  Columbia. 


1943 


1942 


Last  summer  Edwin  C.  Campbell  visited  the 
Wantastiquet  Trout  Club  in  Weston,  Vt 
where  he  borrowed  a  fly  fishing  outfit  from  a 
member  who  turned  out  to  be  Lyman 
Adams,  '28.  Ed  writes  that  there  was  lots  of 
talk  about  the  "ones  that  got  away.".  .  .  Alex 
Petrides  works  for  the  firearms  division  of 
Colt  Industries  in  Hartford,  Conn. 


Presently  John  M.  Bartlett,  Jr.  holds  the 
post  of  manager  of  manufacturing  in  the 
cable  controls  division  at  American  Chain  & 
Cable  Co.,  Inc.,  Adrian,  Michigan. 


Raymond  E.  Herzog  currently  is  located  L 
Los  Angeles,  Calif.,  with  Atlantic  Richfield  v. 
Co.  .  .  .  Leonard  Israel,  a  home  builder  irfr 
Worcester,  was  recently  given  the  Silver    L 
Beaver  Award  by  the  Mohegan  Council,  El 
Scouts  of  America.  He  is  a  member  of  the_ 
council's  executive  board,  the  Jewish 
Committee  on  Scouting,  and  B'nai  B'rith   I 
Lodge  of  Temple  Emanuel  and  its 
Brotherhood.  Formerly  he  was  scoutmasteL 
of  Troop  36  at  the  temple.  He  is  past 
president  of  the  West  Boylston  Rotary,  a   «, 
member  of  the  Worcester  Area  Chamber  cl 
Commerce,  and  past  president  of  the  Masf 
Home  Builders  Association. 


1945 


Currently  Philip  V.  Tarr,  Jr.  holds  the 
position  of  executive  vice  president  of 
Midwest  Sintered  Products  Corp.  in 
Riverdale,  III.  .  .  .  The  Rev.  Edward  I. 
Swanson  has  been  named  executive 
secretary  of  the  General  Commission  on 
Chaplains  and  Armed  Forces  Personnel.  Hi 
has  been  serving  on  the  Commission  staff 
assistant  executive  secretary  and  director  c 
publications  since  July  of  1971.  The  Genen 
Commission  has  functioned  since  1917  as  t 
nation's  principal  agency  in  support  of 
military-related  ministries.  The  Washington- 
based  agency  publishes  The  Chaplain,  a 
professional  journal  for  military  and  Veterar 
Administration  chaplains.  Rev.  Swanson  ha 
served  as  its  editor  for  the  past  four  years. 
He  wrote  Ministry  to  the  Armed  Forces  anc 
Serviceman's  Prayer  Book. 


1946 


Robert  H.  Farwell  has  been  elected  a  vice 
president  of  GTE  International,  Inc.  He  is 
director  of  the  company's  Factory  Projects 
Organization  which  has  its  headquarters  in 
Burlington,  Mass.  Currently  the  organizatioi 
is  developing  a  $233  million  project  for  the 
Algerian  government.  Farwell  joined  GTE  in 
1965.  In  1969  he  was  appointed  vice 
president  of  operations  of  GTE  International 
Systems  Corp.,  a  GTE  International 
subsidiary.  In  1971,  during  a  leave  of 
absence,  he  served  as  deputy  general 
manager  of  the  INTS  Consortium  which  is  | 
constructing  a  communications  system  in    \ 
Iran.  .  .  .  Paul  F.  Gorman  has  been  named 
vice  president  of  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Bosta 
His  main  responsibility  is  for  the  firm's 
services  in  conjunction  with  nuclear  facilities 
Prior  to  joining  Main,  he  was  vice  president 
of  the  Boston  Power  Department  of  United 
Engineers  &  Constructors  and  a  director  of 
Jackson  &  Moreland  International.  Formerly 
he  was  vice  president  and  manager  of  the 
power  department  for  the  Jackson  & 
Moreland  division.  He  is  a  professional 
engineer  and  has  a  certificate  of  qualificatioi 
from  the  National  Council  of  Engineering 
Examiners. 

August  C.  Kellermann  serves  as 
international  manager  at  Conoco  Chemicals 
in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Previously  with 
Bechtel  Inc.,  Frank  L.  Mazzone  is  now 
marketing  manager  for  the  Linde  division  at 
Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Tonawanda,  N.Y.  .. 


50       •cember  19/'      WPI  Journal 


ru   n.   ivierrm,  d  beniui    piuuuti 

ser  and  manager  of  abrasive  machining 
State  Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass., 
on  the  development  of  abrasive 
ning  as  a  metal  removal  process  at  a 
ence  sponsored  by  the  Society  of 
acturing  Engineers  held  in  Hartford, 
,  in  September.  .  .  .  Walter  O.  Muller, 
■  plant  manager  at  Chevrolet-Detroit 
t  Axle,  is  currently  program  manager 
evrolet's  manufacturing  staff.  .  .  .  Capt. 
rd  L.  Rodier,  USN,  has  retired.  He 
spector  general  at  the  Naval 
lunications  Center  in  Washington,  D.C. 
ward  G.  Tamulevich  is  employed  by 
1  Co.,  Worcester. 


195U 


U 


t  E.  Kimball  is  with  Kaiser  Aluminum 
mical  Corp.,  Portsmouth,  R.I. 


48 


rick  C.  Gilbert  works  for  the 
:ment  of  Agriculture  in  Beltsville,  Md. 
illiam  E.  Meadowcroft  serves  as  vice 
3nt  at  Boam  Company  in  Livonia,  Mich. 
injamin  D.  Richter,  Jr.,  vice  president 
Warren  Brothers  Co.,  a  division  of 
id  Oil,  Inc.,  was  transferred  from 
id,  Ky.,  to  Cambridge,  Mass.  in  August, 
rmerly  with  Allis-Chalmers  Mfg.  Co., 
rd  A.  Seagrave  is  now  general 
er  of  operations  at  J.I.  Case  Co., 
,  Wis.  He  writes  that  he  is  enjoying 
lallenges  in  the  construction 
lent  industry.  His  son  is  in  medical 
at  the  University  of  Texas;  a  son  and 
:er  are  at  the  University  of  Illinois;  one 
:er  is  married  and  two  are  at  home.  .  .  . 
2  A.  Shafer,  Jr.  works  for  the  Bostitch 
n  of  Textron,  Inc.  in  East  Greenwich, 


19 


s  J.  Bigda  is  a  building  projects 

er  at  Codata  Corp.  in  Larchmont,  N.Y. 

wrence  B.  Borst  is  with  Aramco 

?s  Co.  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Hans  E. 

I  teaches  industrial  arts  at  New 

d  (Mass.)  High  School.  .  .  .  Robert  A. 

e  has  been  appointed  divisional  vice 

jnt  of  operations  and  research  for  the 

ve  Materials  Division  of  Norton,  Co., 

ster.  Since  joining  the  firm  in  1949  he 

en  a  senior  research  engineer  in  the 

'e  division;  chief  of  the  department's 

z  bond  unit;  assistant  director  of 

;h  and  development  for  the  abrasives 

n  and  director  of  research  and  furnace 

An  inventor  named  in  five  Norton 
s,  his  efforts  led  to  key  innovations  in 
/e  materials  including  Norton's 
;tary  zirconia  abrasive  grain  used  in  the 
iny's  line  of  NorZon  bonded  and  coated 
/es.  .  .  .  Bernard  C.  Walsh  serves  as  a 

engineer  with  Acme  Cotton  Products 
ic,  East  Killingly,  Conn. 


Helge  V.  Nordstrom  works  as  a 
manufacturers'  representative  for  Charles 
Drayton  Co.,  Southboro,  Mass.  ...  A. 
Kenneth  Stewart  is  president  of  Teledyne 
Pines  in  Aurora,  Illinois. 

John  W.  Peirce,  manager  of  price  policy 
and  marketing  information  at  Foxboro  Co., 
has  served  the  town  of  Sherborn,  Mass.,  as  a 
member  of  the  advisory  committee  and  as  a 
selectman.  .  .  .  Genoa,  the  oldest  town  in 
Nevada  (population  135)  is  the  home  of 
Richard  C.  Pieper,  senior  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  Bently  Nevada 
Corporation,  worldwide  suppliers  of 
machinery  protection  instruments.  The  town 
sits  at  the  foot  of  the  Sierra  Nevada 
mountains  and  offers  unlimited  recreational 
opportunities.  The  Piepers  are  planning  to 
build  a  new  home  there.  ...  Dr.  Hugo  S. 
Radt  serves  part  time  as  an  adjunct  associate 
professor  in  the  department  of  engineering 
science  at  the  State  University  of  New  York 
at  Buffalo.  He  is  a  principal  engineer  at  the 
Calspan  Corp.  .  .  .  Les  Reynolds,  product 
manager  for  the  textile  chemicals  section  at 
American  Cyanamid,  has  served  as  a  founder 
and  first  president  of  the  nation's  leading 
corporate  planning  group,  the  North 
American  Society  for  Corporate  Planning. 
"With  1400  members,  it's  going  strong,"  he 
says.  He  and  his  family  are  active  in  church 
and  community  work  in  Basking  Ridge,  N.J. 

This  fall  Edward  P.  Saling,  Jr.,  heads  for 
Montreal  along  with  other  members  of  the 
Manchester  (Conn.)  Barbershop  Chorus  to 
compete  in  the  district  competition.  When 
not  enjoying  barbershop  singing,  he  works  as 
an  assistant  project  engineer  in  the 
engineering  department  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  in  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Elaine, 
the  daughter  of  Eli  S.  Sanderson,  graduated 
with  a  BSCE  from  WPI  this  year.  Another 
daughter,  Marilyn,  is  also  a  WPI  student. 
Sanderson  continues  his  25-year  association 
with  Norton  Co.  where  he  was  recently 
advanced  to  manager  of  planning  and  control 
for  engineering  and  construction  services. 
.  .  .  Summer  found  Robert  F.  Shannon 
cruising  aboard  his  34-foot  Tartan  sloop  in 
Nantucket  waters.  In  the  winter  months  he 
has  been  involved  with  the  Eastern 
Connecticut  Symphony  Orchestra,  which  he 
served  as  president  from  1963  to  1970. 
Professionally,  he  is  senior  research  engineer 
for  Pfizer  Central  Research.  His  principal 
patent  covers  the  crystalline  sorbitol  process 
which  is  now  being  used  by  Pfizer  on  a 
commercial  scale.  .  .  .  Horology  is  the  hobby 
of  Robert  E.  Smith  who  is  a  charter 
member  of  the  American  Watchmakers 
Institute.  A  senior  project  engineer  with  the 
Cambridge  (Mass.)  Thermionic  Corp.,  he  is 
also  a  member  of  ASME;  ASM;  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers;  Numerical 
Control  Society;  and  the  Electronic 
Connector  Study  Group.  He  is  a  certified 
engineer  in  the  field  of  product  design  and  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in 
Pennsylvania. 


Robert  F.  Stewart,  former  president  of 
Consumer  Operations  for  Rockwell 
International  Corporation,  has  been  elected  to 
the  newly  created  post  of  senior  vice 
president  of  strategic  planning  at  United 
Technologies  Corporation,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  He  joined  Rockwell  in  1971  as 
president  of  the  industrial  products  group  and 
was  elected  a  corporate  vice  president  in 
1972.  In  1974  he  was  elected  president  of 
Consumer  Operations  (Admiral,  power  tool 
division).  Previously  he  was  a  corporate  vice 
president  of  Litton  Industries,  Inc. 
.  .  .  Currently  Henry  Styskal,  Jr.,  is 
president  of  Teledyne  TAC,  a  company 
engaged  in  the  manufacture  and  sale, 
worldwide,  of  high  speed  production 
equipment  for  the  electronics  and 
semiconductor  industries.  He  serves  as  a 
senior  member  of  the  board  of  directors  of 
the  Additive  Technology  Corp.  .  .  .  Edward 
J.  Sydor,  general  manager  of  National 
Friction  Prod.  Corp.,  Logansport,  Indiana, 
belongs  to  several  technical,  professional  and 
civic  groups,  with  most  of  his  leisure  time 
hobbies  being  centered  in  the  home.  Son 
Doug  graduated  from  Michigan 
Technological  University  and  Neil  from 
Purdue.  .  .  .  Besides  being  involved  in  the 
design  and  development  of  many  Univac 
(Sperry  Rand  Corp.)  systems,  John  R. 
Taylor  has  found  time  to  pursue  his  hobbies. 
He  enjoys  amateur  radio,  camping,  boating, 
and  watching  sports.  He  is  a  former  president 
of  his  local  civic  association;  Boy  Scout 
committeeman;  and  a  member  of  IEEE  and 
the  Computer  Group.  .  .  .  Donald  W. 
Thompson's  sons  are  all  WPI  students:  Eric, 
'77;  Roy,  '78;  and  Craig,  '79.  He  coaches  the 
Babe  Ruth  team  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  and  is 
building  a  summer  camp.  .  .  .  Joseph  R. 
Toegemann  is  still  product  development 
chemist  at  Uniroyal  Inc.,  Providence,  R.I.  He 
has  two  sons  in  college  and  a  daughter  who 
is  a  high  school  junior.  He  is  working  for  his 
MBA  at  Bryant  College  in  Smtihfield.  .  .  .  Not 
only  is  Russell  Waldo  president  of  Russell 
Waldo  and  Assoc,  he  is  also  a  partner  in 
Lombardi  and  Waldo,  Architects,  Engineers, 
and  Land  Planners,  his  professional  practice 
covering  New  York  and  New  England.  He  is  a 
corporator  of  the  Guilford  (Conn.)  Savings 
Bank  and  a  commercial  fisherman.  He  has 
two  daughters  in  college  and  a  son, 
Jonathan,  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Trombone  playing  is 
still  an  important  part  of  Jeremy  Welts'  life 
and  he  is  associated  with  the  Concord 
(Mass.)  band  and  orchestra.  He  manages  the 
Middlesex  Brass  Quintet,  a  group  which  he 
founded  eleven  years  ago.  He  is  with  Big 
Band,  Inc.,  Medford,  and  has  played  for  over 
25  musical  productions  in  the  area  during  the 
last  ten  years.  He  is  also  interested  in  color 
photography  and  did  the  cover  the  for  the 
Feb.  1974  issue  of  The  Instrumentalist.  He  is 
employed  by  the  corporate  research  division 
of  Raytheon  in  Waltham. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 51 


1951 


Robert  W.  Baldwin  is  employed  as  a  project 
manager  at  Heat  Research  Corp.  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  Previously  a  sales  engineer  at 
Nichols  Engineering,  Inc.,  Shelton,  Conn., 
William  E.  Mansfield  presently  serves  as 
vice  president.  .  .  .  John  B.  Seguin  holds  the 
position  of  district  sales  supervisor  for  Norton 
Co.  in  High  Point,  N.C. 


1952 


Robert  L.  Cushman  is  manager  of  sales 
engineering  at  Sol-R-Tech,  Inc.,  Hartford, 
Vermont.  .  .  .  W.  Dieter  Hauser  holds  the 
post  of  director  of  international  technical 
marketing  services  at  Airco  Electronics  in 
Bradford,  Pa.  .  .  .  NALREP,  the  monthly 
report  of  the  Fermi  National  Laboratory, 
recently  featured  an  account  of  the  Single 
Arm  Spectrometer  System,  which  was 
devised,  in  part,  by  Dr.  Robert  E.  Lanou, 
Jr.,  a  professor  at  Brown  University, 
Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  Donald  R.  Quimby 
continues  with  Union  Carbide  and  is  now 
with  Union  Carbide  Philippines,  Inc.,  Makati, 
Rizal,  Philippines. 


1953 


Dr.  Willard  D.  Bascom  is  presently  head  of 
the  adhesion  section  in  the  chemistry  division 
at  Naval  Research  Lab  in  Washington, 
DC.         Arthur  L.  Danforth  works  as 
laboratory  manager  at  Mass.  Materials 
Research,  Inc.,  West  Boylston,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Formerly  with  Evans  Products  Co.,  Edward 
Goodhue  is  now  with  Goodhue  Warehouse 
in  Middleboro,  Mass. 


1954 


David  A.  Bisson  holds  the  positions  of  vice 
president  of  sales  and  chairman  at  Trend 
Graphics  in  Mt.  View,  Calif.  .  .  .  David  F. 
Gilbert  serves  as  assistant  works  manager  at 
DuPont  in  Deepwater,  N.J.  .       Roy  E. 
Hayward,  Jr.,  is  a  commission  exhibit 
coordinator  at  Astra  Pharmaceutical 
Products,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .       George  Idlis 
works  for  Inline  Technology  in  Fall  River, 
Mass.         Previously  with  GE  in  Syracuse, 
NY.,  Laurence  I.  Sanborn  presently  works 
in  the  microelectronics  department  at  Hi-G 
Co.,  Inc.,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 


1955 


Born   to  Mr   and  Mrs    Robert  J.  Schultz, 
their  fourth  child,  a  daughter,  Mary  Jo,  on 
September  12.  1975.  Prof.  Schultz  teaches 
civil  engineering  at  Oregon  State  University  in 
Corvallis 

Dean  M    Carlson  has  been  appointed  vice 
lem  m  charge  of  real  estate  operations 
for  thf!  Price  Organization,  Inc.,  of  Severna 
P.irk.  Md    Two  years  ago  he  retired  from  the 
US   Army  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant 
■  •  ■■    I  m  the  Corps  of 
Engineer.,  ,,rul  the  Military  Intelligence 

•  ment  he  has  become 
I  has  been  active  as  a 

52  WP/ Journal 


salesman  and  instructor  with  one  of  the 
largest  brokers  in  Maryland.  He  is  past 
president  of  the  Frankfurt  (Germany)  Chapter 
of  the  Reserve  Officers  Association. 

J.  Hamilton  Givan  serves  as  sales 
representative  at  Piper  Associates,  Inc., 
Needham,  Mass.  .  .    Daniel  A.  Grant,  Jr.  is 
with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
Presently  Richard  C.  Lindstrom  holds  the 
post  of  chief  inspector  at  Pratt  Er  Whitney 
Aircraft,  Middletown,  Conn.  .  .  .  Thomas  F. 
Mahar,  Jr.  continues  with  IBM  and  is  now 
located  in  Manassas,  Va.  .  .  .  Charles  F. 
McDonough  is  manager  of  licensing  projects 
and  international  chemicals  (RErD)  at 
American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Wayne,  N.J.  .  .  . 
Robert  C.  Stemple  has  been  appointed 
director  of  engineering  for  the  Chevrolet 
Motor  Division  in  Detroit.  Since  October  of 
1974  he  has  served  as  chief  engineer  for 
engines  and  components  for  Chevrolet 
Engineering.  He  joined  GM's  Oldsmobile 
Division  in  1958.  In  1973  he  was  named  as  a 
special  assistant  to  the  president  of  GM.  A 
member  of  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers  and  American  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers,  he  also  holds  an  MBA 
from  Michigan  State  University. 


1958 


1957 


After  17  years  with  MIT's  Lincoln  Lab.  in 
Lexington,  Mass.,  John  H.  Atchison,  Jr. 
has  moved  to  Florida  where  he  is  senior 
principal  engineer  at  Electronic 
Communications,  Inc.,  in  St.  Petersburg.  He 
has  responsibilities  in  military  digital 
communications  systems  design.  .  .  .  Richard 
G.  Bedard,  director  of  instructional  media  for 
the  Worcester  public  schools,  has  been 
elected  president  of  the  Massachusetts 
Association  for  Educational  Communications 
and  Technology  (MAECT).  He  was  also 
selected  by  MAECT  to  serve  as  a  delegate  to 
the  1975  Lake  Okoboji  Educational  Media 
Leadership  Conference  at  the  Iowa  Lakeside 
University  Laboratory.  Currently  he  is  enrolled 
in  a  doctoral  program  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut.  .  .  .  James  A.  Cheney  has 
joined  the  Linde  division  at  Union  Carbide 
Corp.  in  Union,  N.J.  .  .  .  Andrew  S. 
Crawford,  Jr.  now  serves  as  process  control 
manager  at  Uniroyal  in  Mishawaka,  Indiana. 
Edward  M.  Dennett,  Jr.  continues  with 
the  Oliva  Division  of  Sangamo  Electric, 
Atlanta,  Ga.,  where  he  is  presently  sales  and 
marketing  manager.  .  .  .  Charles  I.  Friedman 
is  with  GTE  Automatic  Electric  Labs  in 
Northlake,  III.  .  .  .  John  M.  Hoban  has  joined 
Applicon,  Inc.,  Nanuet,  N.Y.  He  was  with 
Honeywell.  ...  No  longer  with  GE,  Richard 
J.  Quinn  is  currently  a  senior  engineer  for 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  in  Pittsburgh, 
Pa.  .       James  F.  Richards  holds  the  post  of 
general  manager  at  Wire  Lab.  Co.  in 
Richfield,  Ohio.  ...  Dr.  William  A.  Saxton  is 
president  at  Datacomm  User,  Inc.,  a 
subsidiary  of  Computerworld,  Inc., 
Newtonville,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  Alexander 
Vranos  is  a  consulting  scientist  with  the 
United  Technologies  Research  Center  in  East 
Hartford,  Conn. 


Normand  L.  Bedard  works  as  assistant 
program  manager  for  the  U.S.A.F.,  Elect 
Systems  Devel.,  Hanscom  Field,  Bedford 
Mass.  ...  Dr.  Joseph  E.  Boggio  has  be 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  full  professor  of 
chemistry  at  Fairfield  (Conn.)  University. 
1964  he  began  as  an  instructor  at  Fairfieli 
and  was  subsequently  elevated  to  assista 
then  associate  professor.  .  .  .  Bernard  M 
Campbell,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  project  engim 
at  Ionics,  Inc.,  in  Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  .  / 
the  present  time  Arthur  J.  Hesford  is  a 
with  Delta  Airlines  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Willian 
Wesolowski,  a  development  engineer  fa 
Sprague  Electric  Co.,  has  been  transfers 
from  Adams,  Mass.  to  Worcester  where  I 
will  head  a  new  department  to  accommo) 
the  transfer  of  a  product  line  from  North 
Adams.  He  had  been  serving  on  the  Adar 
Board  of  Appeals. 


1959 


Robert  A.  Bleau  is  with  TRW  in 
Colorado.  ...  Dr.  Richard  J.  Bouchard 

currently  manages  a  corporate  advanced 
development  group  at  Sanders  Associates 
Nashua,  New  Hampshire,  where  he  has  be 
employed  for  15  years. 

Dr.  Joseph  D.  Bronzino  has  been 
promoted  to  a  full  professor  of  engineerin( 
Trinity  College  in  Hartford,  Conn.  Prior  to 
joining  the  faculty  in  1968,  he  had  been 
assistant  professor  of  electrical  engineerinc 
the  University  of  New  Hampshire.  He  is 
director  of  a  joint  biomedical  engineering 
program  between  Trinity  and  RPI's  Hartfor 
Graduate  Center.  He  is  also  a  clinical 
associate  in  the  department  of  surgery  at  I 
University  of  Connecticut  Health  Center,* 
a  member  of  the  cooperating  staff  of  the 
Worcester  Foundation  for  Experimental 
Biology  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  Donald 
Carignan  serves  as  president  of  Westfield 
(Mass.)  Instruments  Corporation.  He  is  a: 
registered  professional  engineer.  .  .  .  Lee  I 
Courtemanche  is  manager  of  market 
development  at  Sundstrand  Fluid  Handlinc 
Division  in  Denver,  Colorado. 

David  G.  Daubney  works  at  St.  Regis 
Paper  Co.  in  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard 
Dehais  has  received  his  MSEE  from  the 
University  of  Vermont.  .  .  .  Donald  C.  Gov 
is  chief  engineer  at  Amkey,  Inc.,  in  Andow 
Mass.  .    .  Bob  Hoag  has  assumed  the 
position  of  director  of  purchasing  at  the 
Miriam  Hospital  in  Providence,  R.I.  Previoi. 
he  was  with  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  in 
Attleboro,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife,  Mary,  liv 
in  Attleboro  with  their  children,  Michael,  6 
and  Erinn,  7  months.  ...  Dr.  Glen  H. 
Smerage  was  a  visiting  faculty  participani 
Oak  Ridge  National  Lab.  (Tenn.)  last 
summer.  .  .  .  Charles  T.  Smith,  Jr.  is 
department  manager  of  computer  design  fc 
Raytheon  Co.  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  John 
Wheeler  works  at  TO  Richardson  Co.  in 
Concord,  Mass. 


At  Du  Font  1  work  closely 
nth  control  agencies 
o  protect  the  environment.'' 


—Sam  Severance 


Sam  Severance  is  a  BSChE  from  Georgia  Tech. 
s  years  ago  he  joined  Du  Pont  fresh  out  of  school  as 
\rea  Engineer.  Now  he's  a  Technical  Supervisor  in 
Newark,  N.J.,  Pigments  Plant. 

Sam  and  the  people  he  supervises  spend  a  full  30 
cent  of  their  time  working  on  environmental  control, 
i  in  the  plant  and  on  effluent  discharge  systems 
side  the  plant.  As  a  result  of  this  type  of  commitment, 
Pont  has  one  of  the  best  safety,  health  and 
ironmental  records  in  the  industry. 

This  is  typical  of  the  kind  of  commitment  Du  Pont 
its  employees  are  making  to  improve  the  world  we 
in.  And,  Sam's  story  is  typical  of  the  progress  a 
Pont  engineer,  regardless  of  his  or  her  degree,  can 
<e  for  himself,  the  Company  and  society. 

So,  if  you'd  like  to  work  for  a  company  that  will 
nit  you  to  make  as  big  a  contribution  as  you  wish,  do 
it  Sam  did.  Talk  with  your  Du  Pont  Personnel 
resentative  when  he  visits  your  campus.  Or,  write 
ct  to  Du  Pont  Company,  Room  24764,  Wilmington, 
aware  19898. 


)u  Pont . . .  there's  a  world  of  things 
can  do  something  about. 


"EG.  u.  &  PAT  OFF 

qual  Opportunity  Employer,  M/F 


I960 


Formerly  director  of  international  staff 
activities  for  Xerox  Corporation,  Stamford, 
Conn.,  Paul  A.  Allaire  is  now  chief  staff 
officer  of  Rank  Xerox  Limited  in  London, 
England.  .  .  .  Stephen  C.  Arthur  owns  and 
operates  Arthur  Electric  Co.,  Coventry, 
R.I.  .  .  .  LCDR  Kevin  J.  Burke  recently 
graduated  from  the  U.S.  Naval  War  College 
and  is  currently  assigned  as  the  executive 
officer  of  the  frigate  "USS  Badger",  with 
home  port  being  Pearl  Harbor.  Since  joining 
the  Navy  in  1962  he  has  spent  about  half  of 
his  time  on  sea  duty  with  destroyers  and  half 
in  graduate  school,  the  Pentagon,  and  the 
Naval  War  College.  .  .  .  Ronald  A.  Carlson 
works  at  A-C  Mfg.  Inc.,  in  Shrewsbury, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Russell  A.  Fransen  is  project 
manager  at  Warren  &  Van  Praag,  Inc., 
Decatur,  III.,  where  he  is  responsible  for  all 
street,  highway,  drainage,  and  site 
engineering. 

Stephen  J.  Hewick  has  joined  Amman  & 
Whitney  of  New  York  City.  A  bridge 
engineer,  his  current  address  is  Dacca, 
Bangladesh.  .  .  .  Arthur  J.  LoVetere  has 
been  appointed  corporate  vice  president  of 
marketing  at  MacDermid  Incorporated  in 
Waterbury,  Conn.  He  will  direct  sales, 
product  management,  sales  promotion,  and 
advertising.  With  the  firm  since  1957,  he 
served  as  technical  sales  representative, 
regional  sales  manager,  and  marketing 
manager.  He  is  a  trustee  of  the  Metal 
Finishing  Suppliers  Association. 

Robert  J.  Mercer  serves  as  vice  president 
of  W.  R.  Grace  Properties,  Inc., 
Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Richard  S.  Meyer  holds 
the  post  of  manufacturing  engineer  at 
National  Grinding  Wheel  in  North 
Tonawanda,  N.  Y.  .  .  .  Harry  F.  Ray  is 
regional  sales  manager  in  the  rubber 
chemicals  division  of  Monsanto  Co.,  Akron, 
Ohio.  .  .  .  Presently  Stephen  Rybczyk  serves 
as  engineering  manager  at  Pacific  Telephone 
in  San  Jose,  Calif.  .  .  .  Bruce  E.  Schoppe  is 
the  plant  manager  at  Monsanto's  Santa  Clara 
(Calif.)  plant.  .  .  .  Walter  B.  Suski,  Jr.  now 
works  as  government  communications 
supervisor  for  AT&T  in  New  York  City. 


1961 


Henry  P.  Allessio  serves  as  principal  at 
William  E.  Hill  &  Co.,  Inc.,  in  New  York 
City  Seth  Arakelian  works  at  Riley 

Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Currently 
George  Brodeur  teaches  mechanical 
drawing,  power  mechanics,  and  general 
metal  shop  at  Hopkinton  (Mass.)  High 
School.  He  also  serves  as  coordinator  of  the 
work  study  program  and  as  assistant  coach 
of  the  varsity  football  team.  He  is  president 
of  the  Kiwanis  Club,  was  a  member  of  the 
town  planning  board,  and  president  of  the 
Hopkinton  Teachers'  Association.  The 
Brodeurs.  who  have  seven  children  of  their 
own,  recently  took  a  deaf  child  into  their 
home  as  a  foster  son  Nicholas  A. 

Caputo  works  for  the  Worcester  Housing 
Authority  Ronald  J    Dellaripa  has  been 

employed  by  Bank  Building  Corp., 
Bloomfield,  Conn. 


Richard  H.  Federico  is  with  Stone  & 
Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  Wayne  F.  Galusha  has 
joined  Vector  General,  Inc.,  Baltimore, 
Md.  .  .  .  Walter  H.  Johnson  is  employed  by 
the  power  system  division  of  United 
Technologies  in  South  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Stephen  W.  Klein  serves  as  a  scientist  with 
Science  Applications,  Inc.,  La  Jolla,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Peter  F.  Kuniholm  is  now  a  project  engineer 
at  Malcolm  Pirnie,  Inc.,  White  Plains,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Phil  O'Reilly  has  been  living  the  past  three 
years  in  Surrey,  England  on  assignment  with 
Air  Products,  Ltd.  He  serves  as  European 
corporate  planning  manager  for  the  firm.  He, 
his  wife,  and  four  children  enjoy  the 
experience  of  living  in  a  foreign  country  and 
occasionally  take  trips  to  the  Continent.  .  .  . 
Associated  for  many  years  with  Picatinny 
Arsenal,  Wayne  L.  Taylor  presently  is  with 
the  munitions  and  general  equipment  section 
at  Yuma  (Ariz.)  Proving  Ground. 


1964 


1962 


Walter  B.  Ambler  has  joined  Dana 
Industries  in  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Terry 
Furhovden  is  manager  of  hybrid  integrated 
circuits  at  GE  in  Syracuse,  N.  Y.  .  .  .  Wilfred 
G.  Harvey,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  production 
control  manager  at  Compugraphic  Corp., 
Wilmington,  Mass.  .  .  .  George  E.  Loomis 
works  as  project  manager  at  Gilbane  Building 
Co.  in  Providence,  R.  I.  .  .  .  The  Rev. 
Andrew  D.  Terwilleger  is  an  agent  for 
Phoenix  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford, 
Conn.  ...  Dr.  John  K.  Tien,  associate 
professor  at  Columbia  University's  Krumb 
School  of  Mines,  has  been  awarded  the 
Bradley  Stoughton  Young  Teacher  Award  for 
1975.  The  award  is  presented  to  teachers  in 
the  field  of  metallurgy  and  materials  sciences 
who  have  demonstrated  a  knowledge  of  both 
metallurgy  and  engineering  education  and  a 
promise  for  outstanding  future  growth  in 
both  fields. 


1963 


Gary  Adams  serves  as  an  assistant  professor 
at  Thames  Valley  State  Technical  College  in 
Norwich,  Conn.  .  .  .  Edward  H.  Coughlan  is 
with  Polaroid,  R&D,  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Edward  P.  Gosling  III,  continues  at 
Newport  (R.  I.)  Electric  Corp.,  where  he  is 
currently  assistant  line  superintendent.  .  .  . 
Leslie  J.  Hart  is  with  GTE  Laboratories,  Inc., 
in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Prof.  Joseph  R. 
Mancuso  of  WPI's  management  engineering 
department  has  completed  requirements  for 
his  doctorate  in  educational  administration  at 
BU  and  will  receive  his  degree  at 
commencement  in  January.  .  .  .  James  A. 
Parker,  Jr.  is  manager  of  product 
development  at  Collier- Keyworth  Co., 
Gardner,  Mass.  .  .  .  Joseph  R.  Santosuosso 
works  as  assistant  project  manager  at  Ebasco 
Services,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Henry  P. 
Torcellini  is  presently  with  Everett  0. 
Gardner  &  Assoc,  in  Tolland,  Conn. 


Peter  Baker  is  with  Metro  Business  As: 
in  Vienna,  Va.  .  .  .  Thaddeus  Betts  serv 
chief  sanitary  engineer  at  Southern  Vern 
Engineering,  Inc.  in  Brattleboro.  .  .  .  Will 
E.  Chase,  Jr.,  SIM,  has  been  appointed 
general  manager  of  U.S.  Steel's  Electric 
Cable  Division  in  Worcester.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  coordinating  production  ; 
sales  of  electrical  cable  products.  After 
joining  the  company  in  1935,  he  was 
advanced  to  assistant  foreman  in  1939  a 
was  named  plant  manager  in  1971.  .  .  .  F 
Fenner  is  now  industrial  market  manage 
Systems  Engineering  Labs  in  Dallas, 
Texas.  .  .  .  Donald  Ghiz  directs  the 
purchasing  department  at  Continental  Oi 
Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Edward  R.  Menco 
with  Associated  Testing  Laboratories,  Int 
Burlington,  Mass. 

Previously  with  Craftsman  Products, 
Worcester,  Albert  J.  Metrik  currently  si 
as  an  electrical  systems  engineer  at  Gent 
Electric  in  Erie,  Pa.  .  .  .  Robert  W.  Palrrv 
recently  received  an  official  commendatic 
from  the  Navy  for  his  "sustained  superioi 
performance"  as  an  electronics  engineer 
the  Naval  Ordnance  Laboratory  at  White 
Oaks,  Md.  A  civilian  employee,  he  has  tal 
numerous  advanced  courses  at  MIT  and. 
Johns  Hopkins  Science  Institute  in  Laure 
Md.  He  received  his  MS  in  electronics 
engineering  from  Michigan  State.  ...  Ha 
E.  Monde,  Jr.  is  engineering  superintenc 
at  Wisconsin  Electric  Power,  Oak  Creek,' 
He  and  his  wife,  Susan,  have  a  daughter, 
Kristi.  ...  Dr.  Eugene  E.  Niemi,  Jr.  has 
entered  the  Michigan  State  University  Co 
of  Osteopathic  Medicine.  .  .  .  Michael  P. 
Penti  serves  as  a  project  manager  for  NP 
Construction  Co.,  Craig,  Colo.  .  .  .  Thomi 
W.  Spargo  is  with  Jamesbury  Corp.  in 
Worcester. 


1965 


Continuing  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft, 
East  Hartford,  Conn.,  Michael  J.  Cavan 
is  presently  serving  as  a  product  support 
engineer.  .  .  .  Lee  A.  Chouinard  works  as 
sales  engineer  at  Amoco  Chemicals  Corp. 
Madison,  N.  J.  .  .  .  Charles  J.  DeSimone 
Jr.  holds  the  post  of  assistant  vice  presidf 
at  the  Society  for  Savings  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  James  F.  Fee  is  with  Cyborg 
Corp.  in  Brighton,  Mass.  .  .  .  Leonard  G. 
Feldman  serves  as  quality  control  managi 
at  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co.  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Currently  Robert  E.  Hawes,  Ji 
employed  by  the  Gillette  Company's  safet 
razor  division  in  Boston. 

Dr.  Donald  L.  Kerr  is  a  research  assoo 
at  Kodak  in  Rochester,  N.  Y.  .  .  .  William 
Nickerson,  an  R&D  engineer  at 
Aeronutronics-Ford,  is  located  in  Palo  Altc 
Calif.  .  .  .  Edward  A.  Obermeyer,  who  hi 
been  with  Kendall  Co.  for  many  years,  isr 
division  manager  of  quality  control  for  the 
firm  in  Charlotte,  N.  C.  .  .  .  Stephen  N. 
Rudnick  holds  the  position  of  research 
associate  in  the  department  of  environmer 
health  sciences  at  Harvard  University.  .  .  • 


54       .  cember  1971      WPI  Journal 


An  invitation  to  undergraduate 
and  graduate  engineering  and 
technology  students  to  submit 
papers  representing  work  on  design, 
engineering  or  fabricating  problems 
in  which  welding  has  contributed 
to  the  solution.  Individuals  or 
groups  may  participate.  Course 
reports  may  be  submitted.  Awards 
will  also  be  made  to  schools. 


NOTE  TO 

ALUMNI  AND 

PROFESSORS 


WRITE  FOR  THIS  FREE 
ECHNICAL  INFORMATION. 

ASK  FOR  1975-76 
AWARDS  PACKET. 

THE  JAMES  F.  LINCOLN 
ARC  WELDING  FOUNDATION 

Box  17035  •  Cleveland,  Ohio  441 17 


$15,300  in  34  Student  Awards  - 
_  ranging  from  $1250  to  $250 
$8,500  in  34  School  Awards  - 
each  $250. 

The  James  F.  Lincoln  Arc  Welding  Foundation  also  sponsors  an 
annual  $50,000  Award  Program  for  professional  engineers, 
designers,  architects  and  welding  fabricators.  Awards  are 
made  in  two  divisions,  structures  and  manufactured  products, 
for  entries  describing  achievement  in  cost  reduction  and 
material  conservation  through  the  use  of  arc  welding. 


•Abstracts  of  professional  award 

papers  publishd  in  The  Lincoln 

Foundation  Reviews 

•Engineering  Students  Rules  Brochure 

•$50,000  Award  Program  Rules 

Brochure 


•Information  on  Foundation 

Publications: 

Design  of  Welded  Structures 
Modern  Welded  Structures 
Design  of  Weldments 
Design  Ideas  for  Weldments 


Dedicated  To  The  Advancement  Of  Arc  Welding  Through  Publications  And  Awards  Programs  for  High 
School,  Post-High  School,  College,  Engineering,  And  Industry. 


♦  COnCRRTUlRTIOnS  ♦ 

1974-75  Student  Engineering  Competition  -  First  Awards 


UNDERGRADUATES 


Mechanical 


Frank 
Lawrence,  Jr. 


California 
Polytechnic 
State 
University 


"Self-propelled  Lifting 
Device  Adapted  to 
Mechnical  Tree  Pruning" 


Structural 


Irving  J.  Zatz      G.  Robert  Morris 


John  S.  Kubota    *William  McGuire 

Cornell  University 
"Final  Design  for  A  Cayuga  Lake 
Inlet  Bridge  and  Ithaca  Bypass 
Highway" 


GRADUATES 


Structural 


^B|ypfS| 

Christopher  J. 
Adams 

*Egor  P. 
Popov 

University  of 

California, 

Berkeley 

ft 

"The  Short  Transverse 
Fatigue  Properties  of 
Structural  Steel" 


Mechanical 


*David  A.  Summers     *Terry  F.  Lehorhoff 
University  of  Missouri 

"Excavation  of  Coal  Using  A  High 
Pressure  Water  Jet  System" 


'enotes  Faculty 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 55 


Charles  R.  Seaver  now  works  as  an 
assistant  technical  divisional  superintendent 
at  DuPont's  Polymer  Intermediates 
Department  plant  at  Victoria,  Texas.  The 
Seavers  have  a  one-year-old  daughter, 
Melissa  Ann,  and  a  four-year-old  son,  Charles 
Allen.  .  .  .  Ronald  W.  Wood  is  a  project 
engineer  at  Ingalls  Shipbuilding  Division  of 
Litton  Industries  in  Pascagoula,  Miss. 


1967 


1966 


William  Baker  is  a  process  engineer  at 
Raychem  Corp.  in  Menlo  Park,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Philip  S.  Blackman  owns  and  operates 
Blackman  and  Associates  which  deals  with 
engineering  and  management,  network 
analysis,  and  quality  control.  Located  in 
Honolulu,  Hawaii,  he  is  also  a  captain  and 
headquarters  company  commander  in  the 
U.  S.  Army  Reserve.  .  .  .  Paul  M.  Castle 
holds  the  position  of  manager  of  shipping 
and  material  handling  for  Miller  Brewing  Co. 
in  Fort  Worth,  Texas  ....  Dr.  Ronald  D. 
Finn  is  the  technical  director  of 
radiochemistry  and  radiopharmacy  at  Mount 
Sinai  Medical  Center  in  Miami  Beach.  He  is 
also  assistant  research  professor  of  radiology 
at  the  University  of  Miami  School  of 
Medicine. 

Lt.  Charles  P.  Jaworski  (USN),  who 
recently  received  his  doctor  of  dental  surgery 
from  Case  Western  Reserve,  is  now  stationed 
at  the  Portsmouth  Naval  Hospital  Regional 
Medical  Center  in  Portsmouth,  Va.  .  .  .  David 
Jorczak  currently  works  at  the  James 
Hunter  Machine  Company,  North  Adams, 
Mass.,  where  he  is  a  project  engineer  dealing 
with  textile  machines  for  nonwoven  textile 
products.  .  .  .  James  E.  Loomis  serves  as 
assistant  superintendent  at  Stone  &  Webster, 
Boston.  .  .  .  Capt.  Jan  W.  Moren  is 
presently  stationed  at  Fort  Monmouth  in  New 
Jersey.  .  .  .  Russell  W.  Morey  holds  the 
position  of  manager  of  material  analysis  at 
Honeywell  Information  Systems'  field 
engineering  division  in  Needham,  Mass. 

Charles  Pike  is  a  river  resource  specialist 
for  the  California  department  of  water 
resources  in  Sacramento  .  .  .  William  J. 
Remillong  serves  as  chief  chemist  at 
American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Palmyra,  Mo.  .  .  . 
Jay  A   Segal,  who  recently  received  his 
Juris  Doctor  from  St.  Johns  University 
School  of  Law  through  evening  study,  joined 
the  New  York  City  law  firm  of  Rosenman, 
Colin,  Kaye,  Petscheck,  Freund,  and  Emil  in 
September.  Since  graduation  he  has  been 
employed  at  Hazeltine  Corporation  in 
Greenlawn,  N.  Y.  Jay  and  his  wife,  Norma, 
reside  in  Brooklyn.  .  .  .  Capt.  John  A. 
Stockhaus  has  been  assigned  to  Camp 
Grayling  in  Michigan,  where  he  holds  a 
permanent  position  with  the  government.  .  .  . 
Gerard  A    Toupin  now  serves  as 
manufacturing  manager  of  the  new 
Tornngton  Co.  plant  in  Cairo,  Ga.  .  .  . 
Continuing  with  Allied  Chemical  Corp., 
Robert  C    Zahnke  presently  holds  the  post 
of  process  specialist  at  Allied  Chemical  Corp. 
and  is  located  in  North  Claymont,  Delaware. 


Married:  Frank  D.  Manter  and  Miss  Lynda 
C.  Prairie  on  July  19,  1975  in  Swanton, 
Vermont.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Montreal 
General  School  of  Nursing  and  is  a  registered 
nurse.  The  bridegroom,  an  electrical  engineer, 
is  studying  for  his  master's  degree. 

George  E.  C.  Batten  holds  the  post  of 
executive  director  of  West  Essex  Nursing 
Service  in  West  Caldwell,  N.  J.  .  .  .  Edward 
J.  Botwick  has  opened  a  law  office  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.  He  received  his  Juris  Doctor 
degree  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
School  of  Law.  Previously  he  was  an 
associate  with  the  law  firm  of  King,  DuBeau 
and  Ryan.  .  .  .  Last  June  J.  Roger 
Daugherty  completed  his  MBA  requirements 
at  UCLA.  He  is  now  starting  his  own 
management  and  systems  consulting  firm  in 
Washington,  D.  C.  .  .  .  Ronald  S.  Gosk 
works  for  MFE  Corp.  in  Salem,  N.  H.  .  .  . 
Allen  J.  Ikalainen   serves  as  a  sanitary 
engineer  with  the  EPA  in  Boston. 

William  C.  Kunkler,  SIM,  was  recently 
named  vice  president  of  corporate 
development  at  Wyman-Gordon  Co., 
Worcester.  Since  1958  he  has  served  the 
company  as  a  research  and  development 
planner,  planning  manager  for  the  eastern 
division,  and  director  of  corporate  planning 
and  acquisitions.  .  .  .  Bharat  C.  Mehta  was 
awarded  his  MBA  at  Pennsylvania  State 
University  last  spring.  Currently  he  is  chief  of 
the  program  planning  and  evaluation  section 
of  the  Pennsylvania  Department  of 
Environmental  Resources  in  Harrisburg.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  H.  Rex,  who  was  recently  awarded 
a  PhD  in  astronomy  from  RPI,  is  presently  an 
instructor  in  the  physics  department  at  the 
State  University  of  New  York  in  Brockport. 
.  .  .  Robert  Shen  is  a  project  leader  for 
National  Cash  Register  in  Ithaca,  N.  Y.  .  .  . 
Elliot  F.  Whipple,  who  received  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania  Wharton 
School  of  Finance,  is  a  senior  product 
specialist  with  Texas  Instruments  in 
Attleboro,  Mass. 


1968 


Married:  Gregory  H.  Sovas  and  Miss  Carol 
Anne  Furey  in  Haverhill,  Massachusetts  on 
July  12,  1975.  The  bride  attended  Hudson 
Valley  Community  College.  Both  she  and  her 
husband  are  employed  by  New  York  State 
Department  of  Environmental  Conservation. 

Joseph  S.  Adamik,  Jr.  is  a  product 
engineer  in  the  marketing  department  of 
Infilco  Degremont,  Inc.,  Richmond,  Va.  .  .  . 
Dr.  Francis  L.  Addessio  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Rocketdyne  in  Canoga  Park, 
Calif.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Balouskus  has  joined 
the  consulting  department  of  W.  R.  Grace  &■ 
Co.  in  Columbia,  Md.  .  .  .  Formerly  a  teacher 
at  Thayer  Academy,  where  he  was  also  head 
coach  of  basketball  and  soccer,  Kenneth  R. 
Blaisdell  is  now  a  science  and  math  teacher 
at  the  American  Community  School  in  Beirut, 
Lebanon.  .  .    Joseph  A.  Borbone  is  chief 
engineer  at  Boston  Digital  Corp.  in  Holliston, 
Mass. 

Robert  L.  Bradley  currently  serves  as  a 
project  engineer  at  0/2  Gedney  in  Terryville, 
Conn.  .  .  .  John  L.  Clune  works  as  senior 
engineer  at  Mobil  Research  &  Development 


Corp.  in  Princeton,  N.  J.  .  .  .  Ronald  G. 
Cummings  has  a  law  practice  in  Allstonj 
Mass.  .  .  .  Lt.  Peter  S.  Heins  has  been 
transferred  by  the  Coast  Guard  from  Miai 
to  Elizabeth  City,  N.  C.  He  is  now  flying  tl 
Lockheed  "Hercules"  HC-130  on  long  ran. 
search  and  rescue,  logistics,  and  the 
International  Ice  Patrol.  .  .  .  William  J. 
Krikorian  was  recently  qualified  as  a 
professional  engineer  and  civil  engineer  b\ 
the  Massachusetts  Board  of  Registration! 
Professional  Engineers.  He  is  a  senior  civj 
engineer  for  the  state  Bureau  of  Building! 
Construction.  .  .  .  Richard  Kung  works  \ 
GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham,  Mass. 

David  F.  Moore  teaches  at  LaSalle  Ji| 
College  in  Auburndale,  Mass.  ...    Dr. 
Michael  Paige  has  been  appointed  the 
associate  director  of  the  Software 
Technology  Division  of  Science  Applicatfc 
Inc.  in  San  Francisco.  He  has  gained  natfo 
recognition  as  a  spokesman  for  software 
engineering,  a  new  discipline  which  is 
concerned  with  formalizing  the  improving 
development  of  reliable  computer  softwaji 
systems.  .  .  .  Currently  William  D.  Poulii 
a  senior  marketing  engineer  at  Pratt  &    j 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  West  Palm  Beach,  Fi 
.  .  .  Stephen  M.  Pytka  is  a  graduate  stilt 
at  Amos  Tuck  School,  Dartmouth  College 
Hanover,  N.  H.  .  .  .  Kenneth  W.  Robert; 
holds  the  post  of  systems  associate  at  Mc 
Oil  Corp.,  New  York  City. 

Continuing  with  the  Environmental 
Protection  Agency  in  Washington,  D.  C.J 
Jack  S.  Siegel  is  now  chief  of  the  region 
programs  section  for  the  office  of 
enforcement.  .  .  .  David  J.  Weinberg  ha 
received  his  MS  in  biomedical  engineer™ 
and  is  working  as  a  biomedical  engineer  It 
the  Triservice  Medical  Information  Servioj 
the  Walter  Reed  Army  Medical  Center  in 
Washington,  D.  C.  He  is  also  a  biomedical 
engineering  consultant  for  Medical 
Technology  Resources,  Inc.,  Alexandria,  V, 
.  .  .  David  C.  Williamson  serves  as  a  staf 
engineer  for  the  SWL  Division  of  General 
Research  Corporation,  Herndon,  Va.  .  .  . 
Robert  D.  Woog  continues  with  AT&T  L 
Lines  and  is  presently  a  methods  engineer 
Somerset,  N.  J. 


1969 


Married:  Charles  T.  Doe  and  Miss  Sally  J 
Roberts  in  Worcester  on  July  12,  1975.  W 
Doe  attended  North  Adams  (Mass.)  State 
College  and  graduated  from  Worcester  Su 
Her  husband  works  for  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.  .  .  .  Peter  T.  Grosch  and 
Miss  Helen  E.  Dorset  on  July  19,  1975  in 
Rome,  Georgia.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Auburn  University  and  is  employed  as  an 
elementary  school  teacher.  The  groom  is  J 
machine  products  manager  at  Soabar  Co, 
Philadelphia.  At  his  graduation  from  Emon 
University  in  June,  when  he  received  his 
MBA,  he  was  given  the  George  Mew 
Management  Award  for  his  outstanding 
scholarship  in  the  area  of  management.  I 
Robert  A.  Spicuzza  to  Miss  Diane  B. 
Grudzien  on  September  20,  1975  in  Prospe 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Spicuzza  graduated  fror 
UConn  and  is  a  medical  technologist  at 
Putnam  Hospital.  The  bridegroom  is  doing 
doctoral  work  in  physics  at  the  University' 
Connecticut. 


v, 


l/l/P/    Innrnnl 


I  am  Kodak's  Director  of  Business  and  Technical  Personnel 


If  you  would  like  to  work  for  Kodak,  write  and 
tell  me  about  yourself.  First,  though,  let  me 
tell  you  about  us. 

We  make  photo  materials  and  image- 
handling  equipment  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  and 
Windsor,  Colo.  In  Kingsport,  Tenn.,  Longview, 
Tex.,  and  Columbia,  S.C.,  we  make  industrial 
chemicals,  fibers,  and  plastics. 

Most  of  the  people  who  make  our  business 
decisions  thought  they  were  being  hired  for 
technical  work. 

Those  who  resist  the  drift  (or  the  draft)  into 
business  matters  obviously  burn  with  desire  to 
keep  doing  technical  work.  Only  that  type 
ought  to  make  a  life  career  of  technical  work. 

We  are  impressed  by  an  engineering  degree 
because  engineering  courses  are  tough.  If  you 
acquire  an  engineering  degree  despite  having 
had  to  keep  your  mind  on  other  pressing 
matters  at  the  same  time,  you  look  all  the 
better  to  us. 

You  also  look  a  little  better  to  us  if  you  do  it 


in  one  engineering  discipline  like  chemical, 
mechanical,  electrical,  etc.  The  interdisciplinary 
stuff  you  learn  after  you  get  here.  Yet  most  of 
our  engineering  is  in  fact  interdisciplinary. 

Whether  you  come  as  a  chemical,  mechanical, 
or  electrical  engineer,  what's  important  is 
evidence  that  you  know  how  to  dig  down  deep 
enough  into  fundamentals  to  understand  a 
problem. 

Good  grades  in  college  provide  that  evidence. 
Deeper  understanding  is  the  academic  goal. 

But  Kodak  is  a  business,  not  an  academic 
institution.  Understanding  the  problem  is 
necessary  but  not  sufficient.  To  do  something 
effective  about  it  takes  drive,  fortitude, 
persistence,  thoroughness.  It  takes  ability  to 
juggle  a  lot  of  things  at  the  same  time.  Grades 
are  only  part  of  the  evidence  of  the  strength 
needed  on  both  the  business  and  technical  sides. 

If  you  are  confident  you  have  that  evidence 
and  are  still  interested  in  us,  please  so  inform 
me,  Ed  Butenhof,  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14650. 


An  equal-opportunity  employer  f/m 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 57 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  E.  Stahl  a 
son,  Nathan  Alan,  on  April  1,  1975.  Nathan 
has  an  older  brother,  Jamie,  3'/2.  Joe 
received  his  MBA  in  June  from  American 
International  College.  Recently  he  was 
promoted  to  engineering  manager  at  J.  P. 
Steaven,  moulded  product  division, 
Easthampton,  Mass. 

George  Banks  has  been  named  a 
mathematics  teacher  at  Pawcatuck  (R.  I.) 
Junior  High  School,  where  he  will  also  serve 
as  assistant  soccer  coach  ....  Anthony 
Bergantino,  Jr.,  formerly  with  the  U.  S. 
Army,  is  presently  working  at  Polaroid  Corp. 
in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Anthony  J.  Crispino 
is  a  staff  scientist  at  Science  Applications  in 
Oakland,  Calif.  .  .  .  John  F.  Doda  works  as  a 
staff  engineer  at  Klockner-Moeller  Corp.  in 
Natick,  Mass.  .  .  .  Donald  B.  Esson  has  been 
employed  by  Pratt  £r  Whitney  in  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Currently  Alfred  G. 
Freeberg  is  with  the  U.  S.  Air  Force  at  Offutt 
AFB  in  Nebraska.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  Pratt 
&  Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn., 
Michael  Gan  now  serves  as  senior  design 
engineer.  .  .  .  Thomas  C.  Gurney  is  at 
Gordon-Conwell  Theological  Seminary  in 
South  Hamilton,  Mass.  He  and  his  wife. 
Sherry,  reside  in  Beverly. 

Richard  H.  Gurske  presently  holds  the 
position  of  environmental  engineer  at  VTN 
Colorado,  Inc.,  in  Denver.  The  Gurskes  have 
two  daughters,  Diana,  4,  and  Rachel,  2.  .  .  . 
Formerly  a  senior  design  engineer  for 
National  Steel  Corp.,  Charles  D.  Hardy,  Jr. 
now  serves  as  a  nuclear  project  engineer  at 
General  Dynamics  in  Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  . 
David  G.  Healey  was  recently  promoted  to 
assistant  chief  engineer  at  Tighe  and  Bond  in 
Holyoke,  Mass.  He  has  been  project  engineer 
for  the  Chicopee  and  Holyoke  Water 
Pollution  Control  Projects.  He  joined  the  firm 
after  receiving  his  MS  in  sanitary  engineering 
from  the  University  of  Maine  in  1970.  .  .  . 
Dr   Steven  A.  Hunter,  a  graduate  teaching 
assistant  and  instructor  at  WPI  since  1969, 
has  been  appointed  as  assistant  professor  of 
engineering  and  science.  For  three  years  he 
was  a  National  Science  Foundation  trainee. 
In  June  he  received  his  PhD  from  WPI. 

Andrew  J.  Heman  serves  as  a  process 
design  engineer  at  Union  Carbide  in 
Tarrytown,  NY.  Gregory  T.  Hopkins  is 

on  the  technical  staff  at  Mitre  Corporation  in 
Bedford,  Mass.  He  is  also  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  Regent  Engineering,  Wilmington, 
Del.  David  H    Johnson  holds  the  post 

of  network  manager  at  New  England 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  in  Cambridge, 
Mass  Dr    Robert  P.  Kusy  is  assistant 

professor  of  oral  biology  in  the  Department 
of  Orthodontis  at  the  University  of  North 
Carolina  in  Chapel  Hill.  He  received  his  PhD 
from  Drexel  Institute  of  Technology.  .  .  . 
Gary  L  Leventhal  works  for  the  Rower 
Dental  Supply  Division  of  Healthco,  Inc., 
Boston  Lt.  Ronald  C.  Lewis  is  with  the 

U  S   Navy  in  the  civil  engineer  corps. 

George  T    McCandless,  Jr.,  who  recently 
received  his  MA  in  economics  from 
Georgetown  University,  is  presently  pursuing 

PhD  at  the  University  of  Minnesota, 
where  he  also  teaches  principles  of 
economics  Gregg  Pollack  holds  the 

■  on  of  vif.f;  president  of  Eurotec 

itional.  New  York  City    He  is  in  charge 
unci  L.itin  American  sales. 


Eurotec  is  an  import-export  company  that 
specializes  in  micrographic  equipment.  Gregg 
does  extensive  international  traveling  and  is 
out  of  the  country  two  or  three  weeks  each 
month.  .  .  .  David  B.  Pratt  works  for 
Compter  Design  &  Applications  in  Needham, 
Mass. 

Gerald  H.  Robbins  serves  as  an  open 
space  planner  for  the  County  of  Orange, 
Calif.  He  was  married  in  June.  Last  year  he 
received  a  master  of  landscape  architecture 
from  the  University  of  Illinois.  ...  Dr.  Robert 
P.  Rocco  is  a  physician  in  family  practice  in 
Hollister,  Calif.  .  .  .  James  V.  Rossi  is 
employed  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  . 
John  A.  Taylor  serves  as  a  senior 
development  engineer  at  St.  Regis  Paper  Co. 
in  West  Nyack,  N.  Y.  .  .  .  David  C.  ThuMn  is 
with  the  Town  of  Barnstable,  Mass. 


1970 


Married:  Stephen  P.  Henrich  to  Miss 
Christine  L.  Rossetti  recently  in  Saugus, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Henrich  graduated  from 
Merrimack  College  and  teaches  in  the  Saugus 
public  schools.  The  groom  is  manager  of 
F.  W.  Woolworth  in  Allston,  Mass.  .  .  . 
William  R.  Naas  to  Miss  Dana  L.  Booker  on 
September  21,  1975  in  Linthicum,  Maryland. 
The  bride  attended  Anne  Arundel  Community 
College  and  will  graduate  next  year.  She  is 
employed  by  the  Department  of  Defense.  Her 
husband  works  for  Sanders  Associates  of 
Nashua,  N.  H.  .  .  .  Michael  P.  Trotta  and 
Miss  Rita  M.  Lanigan  on  June  28,  1975  in 
Stoughton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Trotta 
graduated  from  Framingham  State  College 
and  teaches  home  economics  at  East 
Bridgewater  (Mass.)  Middle  School.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Fay,  Spofford  and 
Thorndike,  Consulting  Engineers. 

Paul  A.  Akscyn  is  now  an  instrumentation 
engineer  in  the  central  engineering 
department  of  ICI  United  States,  Inc.,  in 
Wilmington,  Delaware.  Formerly  he  was  an 
instrumentation  engineer  with  Crawford  & 
Russell,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Charles  J. 
Andreson  has  been  hired  as  the  first  full- 
time  planner-engineer  in  Scarborough,  Me. 
His  duties  will  fall  into  three  categories  — 
code  enforcement,  planning-engineering,  and 
the  provision  of  technical  aid  to  the 
supervisor  of  public  works  and  public  utilities 
coordinator.  He  will  also  provide  aid  to  the 
Planning  Board  and  be  a  liaison  man  for  the 
permanent  building  committee  and  economic 
advisory  committees.  Previously  he  was  a 
graduate  teaching  assistant  at  WPI  and  a 
planner  in  the  Worcester  city  manager's 
office. 

Philip  D.  Bartlett  works  for  American 
Cyanamid  in  Renton,  Washington.  .  .  .  Peter 
J.  Billington,  an  MBA  graduate  student  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston,  is  also  a 
graduate  assistant  in  the  dean's  office  in  the 
College  of  Business  Administration. 

John  T.  Bok  serves  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
B.  F.  Perkins,  a  division  of  Roehlen  Industries 
in  Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  .  William  S.  Coblenz 
is  a  graduate  student  in  the  department  of 
material  science  and  engineering  at  MIT.  .  .  . 
Raymond  Danahy  is  a  physics  instructor  at 
Norwich  University,  Northfield,  Vt.  .  .  . 


Andrew  M.  Donaldson,  who  is  with  Burn 
&  Roe,  Inc.,  Oradell,  N.  J.,  currently  serves 
group  supervisor  of  the  power  conversion 
group  for  the  Clinch  River  Breeder  Reactor 
plant.  .  .  .  Roger  E.  Etherington  works  for 
Dow  Chemical  Co.  in  Plaquemine,  La.  .  . 
Having  recently  received  his  PhD  from  MIT 
Dr.  James  G.  Hannoosh  is  presently  a 
project  engineer  with  Foster  Miller 
Associates,  a  consulting  firm  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  His  specialty  is  in  the  mechanical 
behavior  of  materials. 

Robert  D.  Huard  is  employed  by  the 
water  division  of  the  Metropolitan  District 
Commission  in  Boston.  .  .  .  John  S.  Keena 
serves  as  a  radwaste  engineer  at  Northeast 
Nuclear  Energy  Co.,  Millstone  Nuclear  Powi 
Station,  Waterford,  Conn.  The  Keenans  ha 
a  two-year-old  daughter,  Beth.  .  .  .  Current!' 
Lothar  W.  Kleiner  works  for  the  departme 
of  polymer  science  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  in  Amherst.  .  .  .  James  A. 
Metzler,  formerly  a  computer  scientist  witt 
the  National  Security  Agency,  is  now  an 
assistant  professor  of  mathematics  at  Drew 
University.  Previously  a  mathematician  at  th 
Woods  Hole  Oceanographic  Institute,  he 
holds  advanced  degrees  from  Boston 
University.  .  .  .  Bradford  R.  Myrick  holds 
the  post  of  design  engineer  at  Ingersoll-Ran 
Co.,  Nashua,  N.  H.  .  .  .  Edward  M.  Mason 
recently  received  his  MS  degree  in 
management  science  and  engineering  from 
WPI.  Currently  he  is  employed  by  Standar: 
Oil  of  Indiana  at  the  corporate  headquarters 
in  Chicago.  .  .  .  Lloyd  S.  Palter  works  as  a 
support  engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster, 
Boston.  .  .  .  Having  earned  his  law  degree 
from  Suffolk  University,  Richard  J. 
Schwartz  is  now  an  attorney  at  Gould  Titl 
Co.  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Richard  H.  Steeves 
serves  as  superintendent  of  the  Dewey  & 
Almy  Chemical  Division  at  W.  R.  Grace  in 
Chicago,  III. 


1971 


Married:  Allen  H.  Downs  and  Miss  Harriet 
Y.  Russell  in  Wolfeboro,  New  Hampshire  Of 
August  16,  1975.  Mrs.  Downs  graduated  fit! 
the  Boston  School  of  the  Museum  of  Fine 
Arts,  where  she  teaches.  Her  husband  is  wi 
Electronic  Instrument  &  Specialty  Corp.  in 
Stoneham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Douglas  W.  Kullmai 
to  Miss  Deborah  L.  Ripple  on  June  28,  197! 
in  Columbus,  Ohio.  Among  the  ushers  wen 
Dwight  S.  Dickerman  and  David  A. 
Fagundus,  '70.  Mrs.  Kullman  attended  Blis 
College  in  Columbus.  The  groom  is  with  thf 
State  of  Ohio  Department  of  Highways. 

Married:  John  V.  Marino  to  Miss  Patrici 
A.  Trout  on  August  9,  1975  in  Ridley  Park, 
Pennsylvania.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Delaware  Community  College  and  attended 
Millersville  (Pa.)  State  College.  Her  husbarK 
was  with  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Lester,  f 
for  three  years  and  is  now  doing  graduate 
work  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Payne  and  Mi 
Roberta  E.  Brandt  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  0 
September  30,  1975.  Mrs.  Payne  is  a  senior 
the  University  of  Utah.  The  bridegroom  is 
studying  for  his  MBA  at  the  same  universlt 


WPIJournal 


ilbert  W.  Stromquist,  Jr.  and  Miss 
C.  Linker  on  June  28,  1975  in 
impton,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
ed  the  State  University  of  New  York  at 
Brook  and  New  York  University  where 
rned  her  BA.  Currently  she  is  doing 
ite  work  at  UMass.  Her  husband  is 
sting  his  MS  degree  in  geology  at 
;.  He  will  be  employed  as  a  petroleum 
ist  in  New  Orleans,  La.,  for  Amoco 
;tion  Co. 

I  J.  Cleary  has  been  appointed  asso- 
)roject  administrator  at  WPI  and  is 
ed  to  the  Interactive  Qualifying  Projeci 
\  Previously  he  was  a  reporter  for  the 
'ster  Telegram.  .  .  .  Douglas  E. 
es  is  a  graduate  student  at  MIT.  .  .  . 
|e  W.  Johnson  works  as  a  computer 
mmer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in 
lartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Benjamin  H. 
iff  received  his  MBA  from  Boston 
sity  in  May.  Recently  he  was  promoted 
position  of  senior  compensation 
istrator  in  the  camera  division  of 
id  Corp.  .  .  .  Michael  S.  Latka  serves 
ninistrative  assistant  for  contract 
jement  in  the  office  of  planning  and 
unity  development,  city  manager's 
ment,  for  the  City  of  Worcester.  .  .  . 
■t  P.  Mills,  Jr.  was  recently  promoted 
stant  actuary  in  the  actuarial 
zation  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance 
America  in  Worcester.  Named  a  senior 
ial  associate  in  1974,  in  his  new 
in  he  is  responsible  for  actuarial 
is.  He  is  a  fellow  of  the  Society  of 
ries. 

in  G.  Plonsky  serves  as  a  contract 
istrator  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford, 
.  .  .  Harold  C.  Sanderson  has 
3d  his  master's  in  electric  power 
sering  from  RPI.  .  .  .  Alan  Shapiro 
ly  exhibited  his  photos  of  Ecuador  at 
srkshire  Museum.  For  2Vz  years  he  was 
he  Peace  Corps  in  Ecuador  where  he 
I  devise  audio-visual  training  programs 
>  operate  and  maintain  radio 
unication  systems.  Currently  he  is  with 
nerican  Science  and  Engineering  Co.  of 
ridge.  .  .  .  David  A.  Smith  works  for 
in  Donner  in  Concord,  Calif.  .  .  .  Glenn 
'.,  after  completing  his  first  year  in  a 
r's  program  in  atmospheric  sciences  at 
in  Albany,  served  as  a  participant  in 
mmer  colloquium  on  the  physics, 
stry  and  dynamics  of  the  stratosphere 
National  Center  for  Atmospheric 
rch  in  Boulder,  Colo.  .  .  .  Martin  Wolf 
;en  named  analytical  chemist  in  the 
cal  studies  section  of  product  quality 
mce  for  the  agricultural  division  of  Ciba- 
Corporation  in  Greensboro,  N.  C. 
usly  he  was  a  residue  analyst 
"nent  specialist.  In  his  new  position  he 
j  responsible  for  developing  instrument 
lemical  methods  for  analysis  of 
Itural  chemicals  from  the  manufacturing 
es  and  the  chemical  studies  group.  He 
the  firm  in  1969. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mess.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1972 


Glenn  E.  Cabana  works  for  Orth  Tech  Inc. 
in  Salem,  N.  H.  .  .  .  Formerly  a  supervisory 
engineer  at  Saab-Scania  of  America,  Orange, 
Conn.,  Daniel  L.  Divid  now  serves  as    . 
manager  of  the  technical  services  department. 
.  .  .  James  N.  DeVries  holds  the  post  of 
chairman  of  the  science  and  math 
department  at  Dayton  Christian  Schools,  Inc., 
Dayton,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Currently  Michael 
DiBenedetto  is  studying  for  his  MSEE  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  David  T.  Hayhurst  is  a  PhD 
candidate  and  teaching  assistant  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
John  D.  Kaletski  was  recently  named 
department  head  of  process  services  at 
Clairol,  Inc.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all 
chemical  inventory  control,  dye  batching, 
export,  powder  bleach,  and  cosmetic 
compounding.  Formerly  he  was  a  supervisor 
in  the  processing  department.  He  started  at 
Clairol  in  1972  as  a  cosmetics  and  aerosols 
supervisor. 

Steven  M.  Kay  works  for  Dent-X  Corp., 
Port  Chester,  N.  Y.  The  company  is  a  division 
of  Phillips  Medical  Services  and  produces 
dental  x-ray  processors.  .  .  .  Richard  L. 
Pastore  is  an  environmental  engineer  for  the 
U.  S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency  in 
Boston.  .  .  .  Suresh  N.  Patel  serves  as  a 
design  engineer  for  the  Lummus  Co.  of 
Canada  in  Ontario.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Association  of  Professional  Engineers  of 
Ontario.  .  .  .  Steven  P.  Rudman  is  a  field 
service  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker,  Worcester. 
...  Dr.  Brian  J.  Savilonis  now  holds  the 
position  of  senior  research  scientist  at  the 
University  of  Virginia  in  Charlottesville.  .  .  . 
Prakash  B.  Virani  recently  received  a  master 
of  science  degree  from  Rutgers  University. 


1973 


Married:  David  B.  Hubbell  and  Miss 
Maureen  M.  Curtin  recently  in  Maryland.  Mrs. 
Hubbell  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Maryland  and  teaches  junior  high  in 
Braintree,  Mass.  The  bridegroom  is  in  his 
third  year  at  BU  Medical  School.  .  .  . 
Stephen  E.  Kaminski  and  Miss  Linda  G. 
Hutchinson  on  July  19,  1975  in  West 
Springfield,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Becker  Junior  College.  Her 
husband  is  with  the  Department  of 
Agriculture  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Frederick  Kolack  and  Miss  Kathi  Cobb  on 
September  6,  1975  in  Stone  Ridge,  New 
York.  The  couple  is  living  in  Albuquerque, 
N.M.,  where  the  bride  is  an  RN  with  a 
newborn  intensive  care  unit  which  serves  the 
entire  state  and  the  groom  is  studying  at  the 
University  of  New  Mexico  for  his  master's  in 
construction  management. 

Married:  Roger  E.  Lavallee  and  Miss 
Cathleen  M.  Corcoran  on  August  23,  1975  in 
Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Lavallee 
graduated  from  Cardinal  Cushing  College  in 
Boston.  Both  she  and  her  husband  teach  at 
Cathedral  High  School  in  Springfield.  .  .  . 
Claude  L.  Lemoi  and  Miss  Tina  Zuber  on 
July  12,  1975.  The  groom  works  for  General 
Electric  in  Fitchburg,  Massachusetts.  .  .  . 
Stephen  S.  Martin  and  Miss  Cheryl 
Sweatman  last  August  in  Fitchburg, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Martin,  a  graduate  of 
Fitchburg  State  College,  teaches  in  New 
York.  The  groom  is  a  student  at  the 
University  of  Rochester  School  of  Medicine 
and  Dentistry.  He  is  taking  part  in  a  U.S. 
Public  Health  Service  program  designed  to 
give  students  in-depth  clinical  and  research 
training.  Upon  graduation  he  expects  to 
receive  both  an  MD  and  PhD. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 59 


jamesbury 

0  manufacturers  of 

^-^  Double-Seal® Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere® Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Married:  Peter  McDermott  and  Miss 
Karen  A.  Casey  recently  in  Milford, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride,  an  Anna  Maria 
graduate,  is  a  teacher.  Her  husband  is  a 
chemical  engineer  in  Canton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Aram  Nahabedian,  Jr.  and  Miss  Christine 
N.  Piquette  on  September  13,  1975  in 
Springfield,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
attended  Holyoke  Community  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  field  service  engineer  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .     Edmund  C.  Pastore  to  Miss 
Susan  M.  Durand  on  September  7,  1975  in 
Providence,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Pastore 
attends  Rhode  Island  College.  Her  husband  is 
studying  at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island. 
Anthony  M.  Scandura,  Jr.  and  Miss 
Leahbeth  Mirsky  on  August  17,  1975  in 
Wesleyan  Hills,  Connecticut.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  UConn,  teaches  at  Mansfield 
Training  School.  The  groom  is  an  electronic 
technician  in  the  physics  laboratory  at  Yale 
University. 

Jeffrey  A.  Barry  is  a  diagnostic 
programmer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in 
Marlboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  B.  Belmonte, 
who  recently  received  his  master's  degree 
from  Texas  A&M,  is  a  chemical  engineer  with 
the  U.S.  Army  Materiel  Command  at 
Aberdeen  Proving  Ground  in  Maryland.  .  .  . 
William  A.  Birkemeier,  who  received  his 
MCE  from  the  University  of  Delaware,  is 
currently  a  hydraulic  engineer  at  the  Coastal 
Engineering  Research  Center  in  Fort  Belvoir, 
Va.  .       David  L.  Burkey  holds  the  post  of 
systems  analyst  at  Searle  Medidata,  Inc.,  in 
Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  Presently  John  E. 
Dewar  is  an  assistant  bridge  engineer  for  the 
Federal  Highway  Administration  in  Albany, 
NY  Gene  L.  Franke  has  received  his 

MS  in  metallurgical  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Illinois.  Currently  he  is  a 
materials  engineer  at  David  W.  Taylor  Naval 
Ship  R&D  Center,  Ferrous  Welding  Branch, 
Annapolis,  Md 


Timothy  A.  French  serves  as  a  raw 
materials  control  engineer  for  DuPont  in 
Glasgow,  Delaware.  .  .  .  George  P. 
Gosselin,  associate  software  specialist  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in  Maynard,  Mass.,  is 
presently  working  on  account  for  the 
University  of  New  Hampshire.  .  .  .  John  J. 
Homko,  who  has  been  with  Data  General  for 
two  years,  is  now  working  for  his  PhD  in 
electrical  engineering  and  bioengineering  at 
Carnegie-Mellon  University  in  Pittsburgh.  The 
augmented  degree  will  satisfy  requirements 
of  both  programs.  His  research  will  apply 
specifically  to  bioengineering.  .  .  .  Charles  W. 
Kavanagh  holds  the  post  of  assistant 
superintendent  of  Turner  Construction  Co.  in 
New  York  City.  His  wife,  Joann,  is  a  teacher. 
.  .  .  John  H.  Lecko  is  with  the  petroleum 
products  division  at  Veeder-Root  Co.  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Presently  Joel  S. 
Loitherstein  is  a  sanitary  engineer  at  Hoyle, 
Tanner  &  Assoc,  Manchester,  N.H.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  M.  Makowski  serves  as  a  project 
control  engineer  at  Combustion  Engineering, 
Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn. 

Marc  A.  Mandro  has  received  his  MS 
degree  from  Rutgers.  .  .  .   Michael  R. 
Kenney  received  his  MS  degree  from 
Rutgers  in  June.  .  .  .  Wallace  A.  McKenzie, 
Jr.  serves  as  operations  research  analyst  at 
Converse  Rubber  Co.  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 
He  has  also  worked  for  the  New  York  state 
legislature  and  as  a  public  opinion  analyst  for 
a  congressional  candidate.  Recently  he 
received  his  MBA  from  RPI.  .  .  .  Having  been 
awarded  his  MS  in  urban  and  environmental 
studies  from  RPI,  Wayne  H.  Pitts  is 
presently  a  transportation  planner  and 
engineer  at  Vollmer  Associates  in  Louisville, 
Ky.  .  .  .  Formerly  a  chemistry  teacher  at 
Immaculate  High  School,  Danbury,  Conn., 
Kenneth  C.  Pulls  is  now  a  chemist  at 
Heatbath  Corp.  in  Springfield,  Mass. 


Stephen  J.  Saucier  serves  as 
management  systems  engineer  at  Haricomr 
Inc.,  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  Edward  J.  Swie< 
who  has  earned  his  master's  degree  in  civil 
engineering  from  the  University  of  Illinois,  i 
currently  working  for  the  Economic 
Development  Administration  (U.S.  Dept  of 
Commerce)  in  Chicago.  .  .  .  Previously  with 
Mobil  Research  and  Development 
Corporation's  laboratory  in  Paulsboro,  N.J 
Thomas  S.  Szatkowski  recently  joined  th 
firm's  office  of  patent  council  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  Richard  H.  Turner  works  for 
Prudential  Lines  Inc.,  New  York  City,  when 
he  is  involved  with  equipment  control.  . 
James  A.  Viveiros  works  as  a  graduate 
research  assistant  at  WPI's  Alden  Labs.  He 
on  leave  of  absence  from  the  Harris 
Corporation,  Printing  Press  Division  of 
Westerly,  R.I.,  while  studying  for  his  MSEE 
.  .  ,  Richard  C.  Whipple  has  been  awardet 
his  MS  from  Purdue  University  and  is 
currently  a  nuclear  engineer  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Nan< 
E.  Wood,  who  is  employed  by  Westinghou: 
Hanford  Co.,  Richland,  Washington,  was 
chosen  as  the  Westinghouse  "Desert  Flowe 
for  1975. 


1974 


Married:  Charles  W.  Dodd  and  Miss 
Anne  M.  McPartland,  '75,  of  Houlton, 
Maine  on  July  19,  1975.  Mrs.  Dodd  is  with 
Pfizer  Chemical,  Groton,  Conn.  Her  husbam 
works  for  King-Seeley  Thermos  in  Norwich 
.  .  .  Roland  A.  Lariviere  to  Miss  Pauline  A 
Lillie  on  September  6,  1975  in  Worcester.  Ti 
bride  attended  Worcester  State  College, 
graduated  from  the  former  Norwalk  (Conn.l 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing,  and  is  a 
registered  nurse  at  Backus  Hospital  in 
Norwich,  Conn.  The  bridegroom  is  a  nucleai 
construction  engineer  at  Electric  Boat  in 
Groton.  .  .  .  James  J.  Litwinowich  and 
Miss  Ann  M.  Murphy  on  August  16,  1975  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Litwinowich  graduated  from 
Quinsigamond  Community  College  and 
Framingham  State  College.  She  taught  in 
Worcester.  Her  husband  works  in  the 
Highway  Design  Division  of  the  State 
Department  of  Public  Works  and  Highways 
Concord,  N.H. 

Married:  Robert  F.  Praino,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Anne  M.  Misiuk  in  Auburn,  Massachusetts 0 
August  10,  1975.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
the  Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing, 
Worcester.  She  is  a  registered  nurse  on  the 
Memorial  staff.  The  bridegroom  is  a  gradual 
student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Lawrence  W.  Saint,  J' 
to  Miss  Nancy  Ann  Pohner  on  October  4, 
1975  in  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Saint  graduated  from  Springfield  Technical 
Community  College  and  is  a  physical  therap1 
assistant  at  Hampshire  County  Hospital.  H» 
husband  is  assistant  plant  manager  of 
Guilford  Gravure,  Inc.  .  .  .  Sheldon  I. 
Strieker  to  Miss  Amy  B.  Wessel  in  Windsoi 
Connecticut  on  September  27,  1975.  Mrs. 
Strieker  graduated  from  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College.  The  bridegroom i 
employed  by  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 


60  \r\ 'PI Journal 


'ied:  Peter  W.  Tunnicliffe  and  Miss 
a  R.  Jameson  on  August  9,  1975  in 
nt,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Tunnicliffe 
ited  from  Bay  Path  Junior  College  and 

College.  She  teaches  in  Watertown. 
isband  works  for  Camp  Dresser  £r 
;.  .  .  .  Bruce  T.  Work  to  Miss  Anna  L. 
elli  on  August  16,  1975  in  Simsbury, 
cticut.  The  bride  attended  Boston 
'vatory  of  Music  and  is  a  realtor 
ated  with  J.E.  Holmgren  Associates, 
idegroom  is  vice  president  of 
ering  and  sales  at  Work  Electrical  Co. 
:ford.  .  .  .  John  W.  Young  and  Miss 
a  A.  Haponski  on  July  5,  1975  in 

New  York.  Mrs.  Young,  a  graduate  of 

I  Sage,  teaches  physical  education.  Her 
id  is  a  team  manager  at  Charmin  Paper 
:ts  Co.  in  Mehoopany,  Pa. 

ert  J.  Cimikowski  serves  as  an 
tor  in  the  systems  and  information 
ment  at  Vanderbilt  University  in 
He,  where  he  is  studying  for  his 
ate  in  computer  science.  .  .  .  Since 
ng  his  MSCE  from  Northeastern 
sity,  Edward  S.  Dlugosz  has  been 

assistant  engineering  specialist  for  the 
nia  Water  Resources  Control  Board  in 
nento.  .  .  .  David  S.  Korzec  is  now 
le  power  generation  service  division  at 
ighouse  Electric  Corp.  in  Boston.  .  .  . 

K.  Lackey  holds  the  post  of  regional 
nanager  for  GCA/McPherson 
nent  Corp.  in  Atlanta,  Ga.  .  .  . 

lie  Riel  Lord  teaches  hospitalized  and 

ound  students  in  Kinston,  N.C. 

ten  L.  McGrath  is  an  MBA  student  at 

larton  School  of  Finance  &  Commerce 

University  of  Pennsylvania.  .  .  .  Mark 

ergren  currently  works  for  the  service 

nent  at  Babcox  &  Wilcox  Co., 

o.  .  .  .  James  Rubino  continues  with 

rrington  Co.  and  is  now  a  sales 

er  in  South  Bend,  Ind.  .  .  .  William  G. 

II  holds  the  post  of  production 

isor  at  ACIGRAF  International  Corp.  in 
rd,  Conn.  .  .  .  Robert  W.  Ryder  is  a 
applications  programmer  at  Codon 
Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  Joseph  R. 
pek  works  as  a  service  engineer  for 
zk  &  Wilcox  Co.,  Dallas,  Texas.  .  .  . 
rd  M.  Takanen,  process  control 
er  for  the  Hotpoint  division  of  GE, 
10,  is  responsible  for  the  outgoing 
index  for  Hotpoint  ranges.  .  .  . 
rd  D.  Ventre  has  accepted  a  position 
it  engineering  with  the  plastics  division 
3ont  Chemicals  at  their  Sabine  River 
in  Orange,  Texas. 


75 


id:  Raymond  G.  Acciardi  and  Miss 
iette  M.  Monast  on  October  5,  1975  in 
aster.  The  bride  is  a  North  High  School 
ate.  Her  husband  is  a  naval  architect  for 
.S.  government  in  Bath,  Me.  He  is  a 
)er  of  the  American  Concrete  Institute, 
:,  and  Chi  Epsilon  honor  fraternity.  ...  . 
o  J.  Baker  to  Miss  Bertha  M. 
igway  in  Norwich,  Connecticut  on 
mber  13,  1975.  Mrs.  Baker  graduated 
Norwich  Free  Academy  and  is  an 
ince  secretary.  Her  husband  is  manager 
tware  productions  at  Data  General 


Corp.,  Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Martin  J. 
Burgwinkle,  Jr.  to  Miss  Janice  M.  Gradone 
in  Northboro,  Massachusetts  on  June  21, 
1975.  The  bride  graduated  from  UMass.  The 
groom  works  for  Walsh  Construction  Co.  in 
Yarmouth,  Me. 

Married:  Mark  J.  Drown  and  Miss  Gail  E. 
Dudley  in  Wayland,  Massachusetts  on 
September  6,  1975.  Mrs.  Drown  graduated 
from  Springfield  College.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  Maurice 
L.  Giroux  and  Miss  Aline  Binette  on  August 
30,  1975  in  Plainville,  Connecticut.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Plainville  High  School.  Her 
husband  is  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  .  .  .  George 
D.  Hill  III  to  Miss  Patricia  D.  Henry  on 
August  9,  1975  in  Wickford,  Rhode  Island. 
Mrs.  Hill  graduated  from  Brown  University. 
.  .  .  Michael  J.  Irwin  and  Miss  Nancy  J. 
Morrisey  on  October  4,  1975  in  Weymouth, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Sacred  Heart  High  School,  Weymouth,  and 
was  employed  by  New  England  Telephone  in 
Boston.  The  groom  is  a  chemical  engineer  for 
Procter  &  Gamble,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

Married:  John  E.  Kelly  and  Miss  Allison  T. 
Hill  in  Upton,  Massachusetts  on  July  18, 
1975.  Mrs.  Kelly  has  studied  at  Bradford 
College  and  Worcester  Art  Museum  School. 
Her  husband  is  doing  graduate  work  in 
agricultural  engineering  at  Cornell  University. 
He  is  working  on  an  assistantship  financed  by 
the  federal  government  to  develop  safety 
testing  specifications  for  roll  bars  on  farm 
tractors.  ...  A.  Laurence  Jones  and  Miss 
Angela  A.  Cappiello  on  July  26,  1975.  Mrs. 
Jones,  a  graduate  nurse,  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Bridgeport.  The  groom  is  an 
associate  programmer  analyst  at  American 
Can  Company  in  Greenwich,  Conn.  .  .  . 
William  F.  Oehler  and  Miss  Wendy 
Konopacki  on  May  24,  1975  in  Holyoke, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Oehler  graduated  from 
Holyoke  Community  College.  Her  husband  is 
a  graduate  student  at  WPI. 

Married:  Frank  E.  Vanzler  to  Miss  Ellen  I. 
Tucker  on  August  24,  1975  in  Newton, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
UMass,  Boston,  and  is  a  credit  assistant  for 
the  UNA  Corporation.  The  groom  is  with  the 
Boston  Metropolitan  Area  Planning  Council. 
He  is  also  working  for  his  master's  in  urban 
affairs  at  Boston  University.  .  .  .  Mark  P. 
Youngstrom  and  Miss  Connie  J.  Crooker  in 
Holden,  Massachusetts  on  August  9th.  Mrs. 
Youngstrom  attended  Worcester  State 
College.  The  bridegroom  is  a  sanitary 
engineer  for  Pickard  &  Anderson,  consulting 
engineers,  in  Auburn,  N.Y. 

James  D.  Aceto,  Jr., Robert  J. 
Ankstitus,  Peter  J.  Arcoma,  Scott  R. 
Blackney,  '73,  Steven  H.  Coes,  Robert  J. 
Donle,  Karl  E.  Hansen,  Michael  S. 
Schultz,  James  C.  Sweeney  and  Alexander 
V.  Vogt  are  all  working  as  soils  engineers  for 
Alaskan  Resource  Science  Corp.  in  Fairbanks. 
.  .  .  Said  Kazem  Sohraby  Anaraky  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  Polytechnic  Institute 
of  New  York.  .  .  .  Richard  G.  Aseltine,  Jr., 
a  teaching  assistant  in  the  ME  department  at 
WPI,  is  pursuing  his  MS  degree  in  biomedical 
engineering.  .  .  .  Claudia  Berger  is  a 
laboratory  supervisor  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  School  in  Worcester. 


.  .  .  Garrett  T.  Cavanaugh  has  received  a 
$250  prize  from  the  James  F.  Lincoln  Arc 
Welding  Foundation  of  Cleveland,  Ohio,  for  a 
project  he  completed  as  a  senior  and 
submitted  to  the  1975  Engineering  Student 
Design  Competition.  He  received  fourth 
award  for  his  design  of  a  hemicalvectomy 
prosthesis. 

Bruce  T.  Croft  has  enrolled  at  the  Illinois 
College  of  Podiatric  Medicine  in  Chicago. 
Much  of  his  clinical  training  will  take  place  in 
the  college's  own  clinic,  which  is  the  largest 
foot  clinic  in  the  world,  with  over  30,000 
patients  being  treated  annually.  At  the  end  of 
the  four-year  curriculum,  Croft  will  receive  a 
Doctor  of  Podiatric  Medicine.  .  .  .  Robert  W. 
Cummings  is  with  Central  Vermont  Public 
Service  Corp.  in  Rutland.  .  .  .  Mario  P. 
DiGiovanni  has  joined  Monsanto  Industrial 
Chemical  Co.  in  Sauget,  III.  .  .  .  Robert  Fair 
works  for  Turner  Construction  Co.  in  Detroit. 
.  .  .  Denise  Gorski  is  currently  employed  as 
a  gift  recorder  in  the  Office  of  University 
Relations  at  WPI.  She  is  responsible  for 
recording  all  contributions  received  from  WPI 
fund-raising  campaigns. 

David  P.  Hajec  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  Turner  Construction  Co.  in  Dayton,  Ohio. 
.  .  .  Thomas  J.  Hutton  is  an  inspector  at  the 
Hartford  Steam  Boiler  Inspection  and 
Insurance  Co.  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Nicholas 
P.  Kyriakos  serves  as  a  resident  engineer 
with  Stauffer  Chemical  Co.,  Bucks,  Alabama. 
.  .  .  Kenneth  W.  Linder  has  accepted  a 
position  as  a  field  engineer  with  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  in  Detroit,  Mich.  He  is 
involved  with  fire  protection  engineering.  .  .  . 
David  R.  Lyons  has  joined  Data  General, 
Southboro,  Mass.,  as  a  programmer.  .  .  . 
James  M.  McKenzie  is  a  resident  engineer 
trainee  for  the  Veterans  Administration  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

Raymond  W.  Mott  has  been  employed  by 
Universal  Oil  Products  and  is  located  in 
Bolingbrook,  III.  .  .  .  Daniel  C.  Nelson  serves 
as  a  chemical  process  engineer  at  Fiber 
Materials,  Inc.  in  Biddeford,  Me.  .  .  .  Currently 
George  C.  Njoku  is  a  medical  student  at 
UMass  Medical  School  in  Worcester.  .  .  . 
Paul  D.  O'Brien  is  with  U.S.  Steel  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Michael  P.  Simanonok  is 
with  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas,  Texas.  .  .  . 
Joseph  A.  Soetens  serves  as  an  instructor 
in  computer  science  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  S. 
Wnek  works  as  a  paint  chemist  at  Lilly 
Chemical  in  Templeton,  Mass. 

Robert  C.  Lerner  is  a  grad  student  in 
astrophysics  at  the  University  of 
Rochester.  .  .  .  W.R.  Grace  and  Co.  of 
Lexington,  Mass.,  has  employed  Paul  S. 
Loomis  as  a  technical  services  representative 
in  the  U.S.  and  Canada.  .  .  .  Bruce 
MacWilliam  works  as  a  manager  of 
operations  for  WACCC  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Richard 
J.  Mariano  is  with  Estee  Lauder  Co.  .  .  . 


WPI  Journal  /December  1975/61 


David  R.  McGowan,  who  received  his 
master's  degree  from  WPI,  is  currently 
employed  at  Youngblood  Laminates  in 
Millbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  Steven  F.  Mealy  has 
joined  the  Naval  Surface  Weapons  Center  in 
Silver  Springs,  Md.  .  .  .  David  E.  Medeiros 
is  with  the  Gillette  Company  Toiletries 
Division  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Kevin  G.  Mischler 
was  recently  appointed  to  the  position  of 
planning  director  of  the  city  of  Millbury, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Robert  B.  Murray  works  for 
Walpole,  (Mass.)  Scrap  Metal.  .  .  .  Peter 
Palmerino  II  has  accepted  a  position  with 
Monsanto  as  a  process  engineer  in  St.  Louis, 
Missouri.  .  .     Christine  E.  Powers  serves  as 
a  process  engineer  at  Clairol,  Inc.,  Stamford, 
Conn.  The  firm  is  a  division  of  Bristol-Meyers 
Co.  .  .  .  Norman  D.  Rehn  works  for  GTE 
Sylvania  Corp. 

James  B.  Reynolds,  SIM,  has  been 
appointed  assistant  treasurer  in  addition  to 
his  regular  duties  of  controller  at  Jamesbury 
Corp.,  Worcester.  He  joined  the  firm  in 
1965.         Peter  Rucci  is  with  Stauffer 
Chemical  Co.  .  .  .  David  C.  Salomaki  has 
been  awarded  a  teaching  assistantship  at 
Stanford  University  in  California  where  he  is 
doing  postgraduate  work.  .  .  .  Westinghouse 
Corporation  in  Pennsylvania  employs  David 
P.  Samara  Siddharth  C.  Shah  serves 

as  a  vessel  engineer  at  Crawford  &  Russell, 
Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  William  J.  Stieritz 
is  a  graduate  student  at  UMass.  .  .  .  John  M. 
Taylor  has  been  employed  by  the 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  on  the  graduate 
placement  and  training  program.  His  training 
will  involve  on-the-job  assignments  in 
operating  divisions  principally  oriented  toward 
the  design  and  manufacture  of  large  motors. 
Currently  he  is  located  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Steven  J.  Tozier  works  for  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft.  .  .     David  Williams  has  been 
accepted  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin  in 
Milwaukee  where  he  will  work  on  a  master's 
degree  in  urban  planning.  .  .  .  Stephen  A. 
Zambarano  recently  began  work  at  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center.  .  .  . 
Michael  J.  White  has  received  a  research 
assistantship  at  MIT. 


Frank  C.  Harrington,  '98,  a  former  WPI 
trustee,  and  prominent  for  nearly  fifty  years 
in  Worcester  insurance,  civic,  and  fraternal 
affairs,  died  on  August  26,  1975  at  his 
summer  home  in  Bass  River  on  Cape  Cod. 
He  was  99  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  February  6, 
1876,  the  son  of  Francis  A.  Harrington,  who 
became  a  mayor  of  Worcester  in  the  1890s. 
Following  his  graduation  from  WPI  as  a 
mechnical  engineer,  he  manufactured 
specially  designed  machinery  and  operated  a 
wholesale  plumbing  business.  In  1908  he 
joined  the  Masonic  Protective  Association 
and  was  elected  secretary  the  following  year. 
(In  1922  the  Association  changed  its  name  to 
the  Massachusetts  Protective  Association, 
Inc.)  He  was  named  treasurer  of  the  Paul 
Revere  Life  Insurance  Co.  when  it  was 
founded  in  1930. 

Mr.  Harrington  had  served  as  secretary  of 
the  Ridgely  Protective  Association  (Odd 
Fellows),  director  of  the  Worcester  County 
National  Bank,  and  as  vice  president  and 
director  of  the  YMCA.  A  33rd  degree  Mason, 
he  was  a  Past  District  Deputy  Grand  Master 
of  the  23rd  Masonic  District.  He  was  Past 
Master  of  Althelstan  Lodge,  A.F.&A.M.,  and 
a  member  of  Isaiah  Thomas  Lodge.  He  was  a 
Royal  Arch  Mason  and  a  past  eminent 
commander  of  Worcester  County  Command- 
ery  No.  5,  Knights  Templar.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity. 

Active  in  community  affairs,  Mr.  Harrington 
worked  for  many  years  in  the  Golden  Rule 
Campaign  as  a  team  member  and  sponsor. 
He  was  past  president  of  the  Worcester 
Country  Club,  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
Grange,  trustee  of  the  Worcester  Masonic 
Charity  and  Educational  Association,  and  past 
Thrice  Potent  Master  of  the  Worcester  Lodge 
of  Perfection,  Scottish  Rite  Bodies. 

He  served  as  vice  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  in  1912-1913,  as  a  long- 
time member  of  the  college  finance  commit- 
tee, and  as  trustee  from  1939  to  1949.  He 
received  an  honorary  doctor  of  engineering 
degree  from  WPI  in  1945.  Harrington 
Auditorium,  which  was  dedicated  at  WPI  in 
1968,  honors  him  and  his  brother,  the  late 
Charles  A.  Harrington,  '95. 


Frederick  W.  Read,  Sr.,  '05,  a  retired 
metropolitan  plant  superintendent  for  the    I 
Western  Union  Telegraph  Co.,  died  on  Jul1] 
17,  1975  in  Freehold,  New  Jersey.  He  was  J 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineej 
from  WPI,  he  joined  American  Telephone  ;| 
Telegraph  in  1905.  When  the  company  wa*l 
split  following  President  Theodore 
Roosevelt's  antitrust  crusade,  he  went  withl 
the  Western  Union  division  where  he  worM 
until  his  retirement. 

A  long-time  resident  of  Port  Washington! 
N.Y.,  he  was  a  charter  member  of  the  Port 
Washington  Players  Club,  a  member  of  the 
local  Home  Guard  during  World  War  I,  and1 
past  president  of  the  Nassau  Boy  Scout 
Council.  He  was  chairman  of  the  New  York 
Safety  Council  from  1937  to  1940. 

Mr.  Read  was  born  on  June  12,  1880  in 
Fall  River,  Mass.  He  was  active  in  communi 
affairs  for  26  years  following  his  retirement 
the  age  of  69. 

Irving  L.  Peters,  '10,  died  on  August  4,  191 
in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  88. 

He  was  born  on  May  31,  1887  in  Worcest 
and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1910  as  a 
mechanical  engineer.  During  his  lifetime  he 
was  associated  with  B.F.  Sturtevant  Co.; 
Riter-Conley  Mfg.  Co.;  Westinghouse;  Alster 
&  Goulding;  Duncan  &  Goodell  Co.;  Chase  I 
Parker  Er  Co.;  and  Waite  Hardware  Co.  of 
Worcester.  In  1965  he  retired  from  the 
American  Asbestos  Co.  of  Cleveland,  Ohio.  I 

Clarence  W.  Taft,  '11  died  on  August  16, 
1975  at  his  home  in  Worcester.  He  was  88   I 
years  old. 

Before  retiring  in  1963,  he  had  worked  for 
52  years  at  the  former  Leland-Gifford  Co.  in 
Worcester,  where  he  was  production 
manager.  He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Tech  Old  Timers,  and  Worcester  Mechanics 
Association. 

Mr.  Taft  was  born  on  October  27,  1887  in 
Hopkinton,  Mass.  In  191 1  he  graduated  from 
WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer. 

Dr.  Douglas  F.  Miner,  '15,  retired  scientist, 
author,  educator,  and  civic  leader,  died  on 
July  20,  1975  in  Annapolis,  Maryland  after  a 
long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  September  13,  1892  in 
Hazardville,  Conn.  In  1912  he  received  his  Af. 
from  Clark  University.  He  earned  his  BSEE 
from  WPI  in  1915  and  his  MSEE  in  1917.  Iff 
1940  he  received  an  honorary  doctor  of 
engineering  degree  from  the  University  of 
Pittsburgh.  During  World  War  I  he  was  a 
captain  in  heavy  artillery  and  during  World 
War  II,  as  a  lieutenant  colonel,  he  helped  to 
develop  training  schools  for  Air  Force 
personnel. 

Following  World  War  I,  he  joined 
Westinghouse  Corp.,  East  Pittsburgh.  During 
his  25  years  with  the  company  he  was 
engaged  in  high  voltage  research  and  was  in 
charge  of  materials  and  process  engineering 
for  the  entire  corporation.  He  was  an 
education  and  patent  consultant  and  receiver, 
the  Silver  Medal  of  Merit  for  his 
standardization  program. 

From  1938  until  1956  he  was  associated 
with  Carnegie  Tech  first  as  the  Westinghoi* 
professor  of  engineering,  then  as  assistant  i 
director  of  the  College  of  Engineering  and  I 
Science.  At  his  retirement  he  was  directory 
student  affairs  and  welfare. 


62       -cember  19  ;•      WPI  Journal 


Miner,  who  was  also  a  consulting 
eer  for  Westinghouse,  was  a  member  of 
ieta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  Eta  Kappa  Nu,  and  a 
-  of  AIEE.  He  wrote  30  published  articles 
/as  author  of  the  book  Insulation  of 
ical  Apparatus.  He  was  listed  in  Who's 
in  America. 

>ast  president  of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter 
:  Alumni  Association,  Dr.  Miner  also 
i  on  the  board  of  the  YMCA  and  as 
ent  of  the  Community  Chest  and 
/  Club  in  Annapolis,  Md. 

>n  M.  Smith,  '15  of  Evanston,  Illinois 

d  away  on  September  28,  1975. 

n  on  June  30,  1893  in  Canajoharie, 

he  later  studied  electrical  engineering  at 

graduating  in  1915.  For  two  years  he 

/ith  Westinghouse  Electric.  After 

g  with  the  army  in  World  War  I,  he 

Chain  Belt  in  Milwaukee.  For  many 
he  was  an  agent  for  New  England 
al  Life  Insurance  Co. 

Smith  was  a  former  member  of  the 
ixecutive  Committee  and  a  past 
ary-treasurer  of  the  Chicago  Chapter  of 
lumni  Association.  He  belonged  to  Phi 
ia  Delta,  Skull,  and  the  University  Club 
icago. 

r  N.  Pike,  '17,  of  Matawan,  New 
/,  former  chief  mechanical  engineer  for 
anson-Van  Winkle-Munning  Co.  for 
10  years,  died  on  June  22,  1975.  He  was 

iative  of  Ashland,  Mass.,  he  was  an 
ical  engineering  graduate  from  WPI. 
working  briefly  for  Denison  Co., 
ngham,  Mass.,  and  American  Steel  &■ 
Worcester,  he  was  with  Hanson-Van 
e-Munning  from  1920  to  1961.  At  the 
)f  his  retirement  he  was  chief 
anical  engineer  of  the  company. 
Pike  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
igma  Xi,  and  the  Masons.  He  was  a 
)fficer  of  his  American  Legion  post  and 
resident  of  Liberal  Building  &  Loan 
Carteret  Savings)  in  Matawan.  During 
I  War  I  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Artillery. 

>  J.  Wyman,  '17,  who  retired  at  the  age 
after  serving  25  years  on  the  teaching 
at  Franklin  Institute  in  Boston,  died  on 
st  21,  1975  in  Stoneham, 
achusetts.  He  was  82  years  old. 
iative  of  Ontario,  N.Y.,  he  joined  the 
Army  Transport  Service  after  graduating 
WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer  in  1917. 
he  became  associated  with  Elder  Steel, 
1am  (Mass.)  Water  Co.,  Sword  Electric 
A/h'rting  Milk  Co.,  Wentworth  Institute, 
/IIT. 

Wyman  belonged  to  ASEE,  ASTME, 
vas  a  past  treasurer  of  Morgan 
Drial's  Hayden  Goodwill  Inn  for  Boys 
Nation. 


Cortis  N.  Rice,  Jr.,  '23,  passed  away 
suddenly  on  August  1,  1975  at  his  home  in 
Sarasota,  Florida  at  the  age  of  73. 

At  the  time  of  his  retirement  in  1966,  he 
was  operations  controller  for  the  Northern 
States  Power  Company  in  Minneapolis,  Minn. 
Previously  he  was  manager  of  plant 
accounting  at  Northern  States,  a  firm  he 
joined  in  1933.  He  had  also  been  associated 
with  Byllesby  Engineering  &  Management 
Corp.  and  New  England  Telephone  Co., 
Boston.  From  1925  until  1928  he  was  a 
valuation  engineer  assisting  Prof.  A.S.  Richey 
at  WPI. 

Mr.  Rice,  who  was  born  on  October  19, 
1901  in  Lowell,  Mass.,  received  his  BSEE 
from  WPI  in  1923.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  a  board  member  of 
the  Controllers'  Institute  of  America.  He 
belonged  to  Edison  Electric  Institute,  the 
Sarasota  Power  Squadron,  and  American 
Management  Association.  He  was  a  lifetime 
member  and  past  president  of  the  Minnesota 
Horticultural  Society,  a  lifetime  member  of 
the  Men's  Arboratum,  and  belonged  to  the 
Men's  Garden  Club  of  Sarasota  and  the 
Sarasota  Shrine  Club. 

Gunnar  A.  F.  Winckler,  '25,  of  Seabrook, 
Maryland  died  on  May  21,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  August  21,  1901  in 
Sweden  and  graduated  with  his  BSEE  from 
WPI  in  1925.  During  his  lifetime  he  was  a 
research  engineer  for  GE,  Lynn,  Mass.; 
president  of  Winckler  Engineering 
Laboratories,  Boston;  and  research  engineer 
at  Winchester  Repeating  Arms  Co.  He  was 
with  Colin  Mathieson  Chemical  and  United 
Nuclear,  New  Haven,  Conn. 

A  former  senior  scientist  at  Johns  Hopkins 
University's  applied  physics  laboratories, 
Silver  Spring,  Md.,  he  was  also  a  member  of 
Phi  Gamma  Delta  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  Among 
his  patents  was  a  design  for  a  lighted  life 
jacket  which  was  approved  for  use  by  the 
U.S.  Government. 

Richard  S.  Boutelle,  '26,  retired  Boston 
district  manager  of  the  Ford  Motor  Co.  (1956 
to  1963),  died  in  Newton,  Massachusetts  on 
September  3,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  February  20,  1904  in 
Worcester,  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
WPI,  and  joined  Ford  in  1927.  He  stayed  with 
the  company  until  his  retirement  in  1963. 
During  his  career  he  held  executive  positions 
with  Ford  in  Chester,  Pa.,  Norfolk,  Va.,  New 
York  City,  and  Boston. 

Mr.  Boutelle  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  and  the  Harvard  Club  of 
Boston.  He  attended  the  Harvard  Graduate 
School  of  Business  Administration. 


Arthur  T.  Simmonds,  '28,  former  director  of 
hydro  production  for  New  England  Power 
Company,  died  on  September  20,  1975  in 
Littleton,  New  Hampshire. 

A  native  of  Philadelphia,  he  was  born  on 
April  12,  1904.  In  1928  he  graduated  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI  and  then  joined 
New  England  Power  Company  where  he  was 
employed  until  his  retirement  42  years  later. 
While  with  the  company  he  was  a  meter 
inspector  in  Worcester,  and  Shelburne  Falls, 
Mass.,  and  with  the  Fall  Mountain  Electric 
Co.,  in  Bellows  Falls,  Vt.  In  1934  he  became 
meter  foreman  in  Littleton,  N.H.,  where  in 
1938  he  was  promoted  to  technical  assistant. 
Later  he  became  supervisor  of  operations, 
assistant  (northern)  division  superintendent, 
and  superintendent.  At  his  retirement  he  was 
director  of  hydro  production  with 
headquarters  in  Lebanon,  N.H. 

Mr.  Simmonds  was  past  president  of  the 
Littleton  Rotary  Club,  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  Hospital  Association,  Eastern 
Snow  Conference,  and  director  of  Littleton 
Savings  Bank.  He  also  served  as  director  of 
the  Littleton  Community  Center  Corp., 
trustee  of  the  N.H.  Masonic  Home,  and  was 
very  active  in  the  Masons  and  Shrine.  He 
was  a  licensed  professional  engineer  and  was 
appointed  by  the  governor  to  the  Citizens' 
Advisory  Group  of  the  Connecticut 
River  Basin. 

Alfred  W.  Young,  '28,  of  Largo,  Florida  died 
recently. 

He  was  born  on  July  5,  1906  in  Norwich, 
Conn.  In  1928  he  graduated  with  a  BSME 
from  WPI.  From  1928  until  1942  he  was  with 
the  National  Advisory  Committee  for 
Aeronautics  (now  NASA).  He  continued  as 
an  engineeer  with  the  National  Aeronautics 
and  Space  Administration  until  his  retirement 
in  1970.  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi. 

Gerson  E.  Berger,  '31,  died  last  summer  in 
Brighton,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  67. 

He  retired  in  1973  after  many  years  as  an 
electrician  at  MIT.  A  Worcester  native,  he 
was  born  on  April  14,  1908,  later  becoming  a 
student  at  WPI. 

Mr.  Berger  was  a  member  of  Temple  B'nai 
Moshe,  Brighton,  the  Brookline  Birdwatchers 
Club,  the  Massachusetts  Audubon  Society 
and  the  Brighton  Historical  Society. 

Burton  H.  Simons,  '36,  of  Morristown,  New 
Jersey  died  on  June  4,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  July  3,  1915  in  Worcester 
and  graduated  from  WPI  with  his  BSEE  in 
1936.  For  many  years  he  was  with  the  Bell 
Telephone  Labs  in  Whippany,  N.  J.,  where  he 
was  a  member  of  the  technical  staff. 

Mr.  Simons  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha 
and  Sigma  Xi.  He  was  an  associate  member 
of  IRE. 


•Id  D.  Jacques,  '20,  of  Worcester 
;d  away  recently. 

was  born  on  May  28,  1898  in  Worcester 
studied  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
ig  his  career  he  was  the  proprietor  of 

Jacques  &  Son,  Worcester;  sales 
iger  of  the  Jacques  Division  of  Hobbs 

Co.;  and  sales  engineer  for  F.  H.  Harris 
Holden,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi 
ia  Kappa  and  A.F.&A.M. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1975 1 63 


Aram  Kalenian,  '33,  founder  and  president 
of  Vee  Arc  Corp.,  Westboro,  Massachusetts, 
died  on  September  7,  1975  in  Boston  after  a 
short  illness.  He  was  64. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  April  12, 
1911  and  graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI  in 
1933.  Prior  to  founding  Vee  Arc,  he  served  as 
chief  design  engineer  of  Armeno  Cereal  Co., 
Northboro.  He  also  was  a  former  project 
engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Corp. 
in  Hartford,  Conn.  In  1968  he  graduated  from 
the  advanced  management  program  of  the 
Harvard  University  Graduate  School  of 
Business  Administration. 

Mr.  Kalenian  held  numerous  U.  S.  and 
foreign  patents  on  flexible  aircraft  couplings, 
lathe  chucks,  and  adjustable  speed  motor 
drives.  He  became  widely  known  in  1958  for 
his  invention  of  the  Reactron,  a  variable 
speed  DC  motor  control.  His  father's  cereal 
company  in  Northboro  became  famous  in  the 
early  1960's  when  it  manufactured  elements 
for  survival  biscuits  to  be  used  in  bomb 
shelters. 

A  civic  leader  in  Westboro,  he  had  been 
chairman  of  Veterans'  Housing,  a  member  of 
the  town  finance  committee,  and  trustee  of 
the  Westboro  Savings  Bank.  He  was  an 
advisory  board  member  of  the  Worcester 
County  National  Bank  and  a  member  of  the 
Chief  Executive's  Club  of  Central 
Massachusetts  and  the  Employers' 
Association.  He  also  served  as  a  member  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Fund  Board. 

Herbert  E.  Sheldon,  '44,  an  executive  with 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co., 
passed  away  on  June  8,  1975  in  Morristown, 
New  Jersey. 

A  native  of  Brockton,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  August  5,  1922.  In  1944  he  received  his 
BSEE  at  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was 
associated  with  the  New  England  Telephone 
Co.,  the  Bell  Telephone  Laboratories  as  head 
of  technical  employment,  and  the  Illinois  Bell 
System.  For  the  past  five  years  he  held  a 
technical  personnel  executive  post  at  AT&T 
headquarters  in  New  York  City. 

During  World  War  II  Mr.  Sheldon  served  as 
an  engineering  officer  on  an  LSM  in  the 
Pacific  theater. 

Walter  P.  Matzelevich,  '45,  died  in  Boston, 
Massachusetts  on  April  23,  1975.  He  was  52 
years  old. 

For  the  past  eight  years  he  served  as  vice 
president  of  manufacturing  at  Market  Forge 
Co.,  Everett,  Mass.  Previously  he  held  the 
same  position  at  Anderson  Power  Products, 
Boston  and  at  James  R.  Kearney  Corp.,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.  He  had  also  worked  for  Line 
Material  Industries  and  A.O.  Smith 
Corporation  in  Milwaukee,  Wis. 

Mr.  Matzelevich,  who  was  born  on 
February  10,  1923  in  Worcester,  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1945  with  a  BS  in  mechanical 
engineering.  He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta 
Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  Skull,  and  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon.  In 
1948  he  received  his  MBA  from  Harvard 
Business  School.  He  was  active  in  scouting 
and  belonged  to  the  Rotary  and  the  Chamber 
of  Commerce. 


Lt.  Col.  Robert  E.  Bernado,  '58,  a  retired 
Air  Force  officer,  died  on  September  21,  1975 
in  Nashville,  Tennessee  after  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  December  12,  1934  in 
Boston.  He  received  his  BS  from  Tufts  in 
1956  and  his  MS  from  WPI  in  1958.  While  on 
active  duty  with  the  Air  Force,  he  spent  two 
years  in  Vietnam  as  aircraft  commander  of 
the  C-130  transport  and  the  AC-130  gunship. 
He  received  the  Distinguished  Flying  Cross, 
the  Meritorious  Service  Medal,  and  18  Air 
Medals.  Last  year  he  retired  from  the  Air 
Force. 

John  V.  Forcino,  SIM  '62,  of  Holden, 
Massachusetts  died  on  June  20,  1975.  He 
was  57  years  old. 

For  many  years  he  was  employed  by 
Grinnell  Fire  Protection  Systems,  Inc.  of 
Rhode  Island.  He  was  born  in  Groton,  Mass. 
on  October  23,  1917  and  later  attended  WPI. 
During  World  War  II  he  was  with  the  Signal 
Corps  in  Europe.  He  was  a  graduate  of 
Becker  Junior  College. 


Michael  M.  Field,  '72,  of  Swarthmore, 
Pennsylvania  died  on  August  14,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  July  24,  1950  in  Ridly 
Park,  Pa.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  receivt. 
a  degree  in  airplane  maintenance  engineer; 
technology  from  Parks  College  of 
Aeronautical  Technology,  a  branch  of  St 
Louis  University.  At  the  time  of  his  death  I 
held  a  commercial  pilot's  rating  and  was 
employed  by  Altair  Airlines. 

He  was  a  member  of  Pi  Mu  Epsilon,  the 
national  mathematics  honorary  society.  He 
was  the  son  of  David  M.  Field,  '44. 


u,  S    POSTAL  SERVICE 

STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP.  MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION 

i  U  ■  of  Auiust  12.  1070    Seclton  36SJ    Title  39-  United  States  Cvdc 


TITLE.  OF  PUBLICATION 

'..'     P     I     Jcurr.al 


3    FraauENCv  of  issue 

6   t i res  per  year:      Feb.    Aor.    Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Dec. 


'iffsm™ 


3A.  ANNUAL  SUBSCRIPTION  PRICE 
$5.00 


4.  LOCATION  OF  KNOWN  OF  F  ICE  OF  Pl>3  LI  CATION  (Street,  city,  county,  state  und  ZIP  code  )  {Not  printers, 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Institute  Road,  Worcester ,   MA  01609 

5.  LOCATION  OF  THE  HEADQUARTERS  QR  GENERAL  BUSINESS  OF  F  ICES  OF  THE  PUBLISHERS  (.\ot  printers) 

same 

6.  NAMES  AND  ADDRESSES  OF  PUBLISHER.  EDITOR,  AND  MANAGING  EDITOR 


EDITOR  (Wa 

H.  Russell  Kav.   WPI,  Worcester,   MA  01609 


*CING  EDITOR  (Sa 


7.  OWNcR  at  owned  by  a  corpora'.! 
stockholders  owning  or  holding  I  pert 
individual  owners  mutt  be  gttttn.  If 
rrdii  .dual  must  be  given.  I 


its  rrame  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately  thereunder  t 
t  or  more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  b>  a  corporation,  the  i 
-ted    b>    a  partnership  or  other  unincorporated   firm,    its   name  and  addn 


nd  addresses  of  the 
well  as   that  of  each 


NAME 

ADDRESS 

Worcester  Polytechnic   Institute 

Institute   Road,    Worcester,      MA  01609 

KNOWN  BONDHOLDERS.  MORTGAGEES.  AND  OTHER  SECURITY  HOLDERS  OWNING  OR  HOLDING  1  PERCENT  OR  MORE  OF 
TOTAL  AMOUNT  OF  BONOS,  MORTGAGES  OR  OTHER  SECURITIES  HI  Ihei 


NAME 

ADDRESS 

I 

' 

9     FOR  OPTIONAL  COMPLETION  BY  PUBLISHERS  MAILING  AT  THE  REGULAR  RATES  {Section  132,121,  Postal  Sen 


39  U.  S     C     3626  provide 
perfusion    to   ma-l   minir 


»niiv  auihori*ed  bv  39  U.  S    C    3626 


tion    unless   he   files   annually 
[  permission  to  mail  the  public 


reduced  pottage 


(Signature  and  title  of  editor,  publisher    hu 


i  manager,  or  owner) 


(If  changed,  publisher  mutt 
submit  explanation  of  change 
With  this  statement) 


11      EXTENT  AND  NATURE  OF  CIRCULATION 

AVERAGE  NO   COPIES 
EACH  ISSUE  DURING 
PHECEDI 

ACTUAL  NUMBEH  OF  COPIES  OF 

SINGLE  ISSUE  PUBLISHED  NEAR. 

EST  TO  FILING  DATE 

A      TOTAL  NO    COPIES  PRINTED  IV.I  P-»m  Runl 

16,583 

24,000 

B.    PAID  CIRCULATION 

1     SALES  THROUGH  DEALERS  AND  CARRIERS.  STREET 

* 

* 

?     MAIL  SUBSCRIPTIONS 

* 

* 

C     TOTAL  PAID  CIRCULATION 

* 

* 

'    OISTRIBUTION  BV  MAIL.  CARRIER  OR  OTHI  M  Ml  AN'. 
S AMPLE3,  COMPLIMENT ARV.ANO  OTHER  FREE  t  01 

15,151 

21,810 

I  .'.  L  OISTRIBUTION  Hum  of  C  and  D) 

IS, 151 

21,810 

1       POM  FU 

1,432 

2,190 

"NS  PROM  NEWS  AGENTS 

* 

», 

<-l.t  ...... 1  -  ,1  pftU  run  thnu.n  In  A  1 

16,583 

24,000 

■lONATURI    <x    1  DITOR    PUBI 

•.mi  ii  BydlNI  18  MANAQI  " 

mi 


64  WPIJournal 


lumni  Magazines 
an  Make 
loomy  Reading 

?orge  R.  Coffey 


s  keeps  up,  I'm  going  to  cancel  my  subscription  to 
plication  I've  been  getting  for  more  than  twenty-five 

s  my  college  alumni  magazine,  the  contents  of  which 
1  more  depressing  by  the  issue, 
•me  time  back  I  had  learned  to  accept  the  fact  that 
lass  was  moving  steadily  toward  the  front  of  the 
,  with  an  ever-lengthening  list  of  "Alumnitems"  on 
classes  falling  in  behind. 

Iso,  I've  adjusted  to  the  reality  that  with  a  few 
)le  exceptions,  the  wedding  and  birth  notices  are 
ved  almost  exclusively  for  alumni  who  graduated  10, 
r  even  20  years  after  I  did. 
'hat  really  began  to  hurt  was  the  disturbing 
ency  of  obituaries  involving  people  presumably  not 
i  older  than  I,  and  in  some  cases  almost  exact 
•mporaries. 

en  dismissing  the  recurring  reminders  of  one's  own 
ality  and  the  diminished  proclivity  for  child-producing 
•ther  standard  fare  for  an  alumni  magazine  is  enough 
>ake  you  question  how  you  are  doing  in  life's  com- 
ve  game. 

one  issue,  there's  the  announcement  that  a- guy  who 
lated  just  a  year  ahead  of  you  has  been  named 
dent  of  one  of  the  nation's  largest  companies.  And 
as  the  one  who  was  always  horsing  around  in 
d1,  cutting  classes,  ducking  exams  and  generally 
ing  nothing  that  indicated  he  was  going  to  be  a 
d  beater! 

nother  time,  you  find  a  glowing  tribute  about  a 
nate  who  has  been  honored  by  some  learned  society 
ier  pioneering  research  on  a  hitherto  unexplored 
tific  plateau.  And  she  was  the  one,  you  recall  from 
ny  11,  who  had  as  much  trouble  as  you  did  telling 
lifference  between  a  stamen  and  a  pistil, 
o  add  insult  to  injury,  there  is  a  report  on  a  younger 
mus  who  has  been  elected  to  Congress  and  is 
idered  a  hot  contender  for  the  U.S.  Senate,  if  not 
er.  Wasn't  he  the  awkward  kid  whose  debating  team 
s  consistently  defeated? 

hat's  the  trouble  with  alumni  magazines.  They  report 
on  the  triumphs  of  graduates,  forcing  you  into  the 
itable  comparisons  of  how  your  progress  stacks  up 
others. 


Do  college  newsletters  ever  tell  you  about  the  guy 
who  was  evicted  from  his  home  for  non-payment  of  the 
mortgage,  enabling  you  to  boast  that  it  never  happened 
to  you?  Not  a  chance. 

That  so-and-so  has  put  on  40  pounds  and  can't  touch 
his  toes  with  a  yardstick,  allowing  you  the  pleasure  of 
crowing  about  your  own  stabilized,  if  unevenly 
distributed,  weight?  Never. 

That  someone  else  has  lost  all  his  hair,  giving  you  the 
satisfaction  of  pointing  to  your  own  full  crop,  even  if  it  is 
getting  increasingly  grey?  Of  course  not. 

Life  as  presented  in  an  alumni  magazine  is  always  a 
series  of  onward  and  upward  steps,  of  novels  published, 
big  business  deals  consummated,  movies  directed,  or 
awards  received.  All  of  which  leaves  the  average  reader, 
regardless  of  his  own  accomplishments,  to  compare  them 
with  what  always  seems  to  be  the  oneupmanship  of  other 
alumni. 

About  the  only  recourse  is  to  content  yourself  with 
what  you  have  been  able  to  do,  or  avoid  doing,  like 
going  broke  or  landing  in  jail. 

What  you  can't  do,  actually,  is  cancel  your 
subscription  to  an  alumni  magazine  because  you'll  keep 
getting  it  as  long  as  you're  carried  on  the  rolls  as  a 
graduate  of  good  ole  Estee  U. 

So,  you  might  as  well  accept  the  fact  that  there  will  be 
constant  reminders  that  others  are  achieving  new  heights 
even  when  you're  not.  But,  you'll  also  be  reassured  to 
know  that  everyone  else  is  getting  older,  and  moving 
farther  forward  in  the  book,  just  Tike  you. 


77ns  "appreciation"  of  alumni  magazines  was  originally  published  in 
a  California  newspaper,  where  Larry  Israel,   '61,  noticed  it  and  sent 
it  on  to  us.  George  Coffey  is  a  San  Francisco  public  relations  con- 
sultant who,  for  a  time,  was  a  syndicated  columnist. 


■ 


It  is  clear  that  the  Plan 


s  a  process,  a  living  and 


ot  a  mechanical  thing, 


ind  depends  heavily  on  the 


articular  constellation  of 


eople  and  events  at  WPI. 


—  Bruce  Mazlish,  M.I.T. 


Dedication 

To  the  faculty  of  WPI .  .  .  and 
their  dedication,  which  made  the 
WPI  Plan  possible 


"Our  foresight  with  respect  to  the  nature  of  the  prob- 
lems was,  I  believe,  quite  good.  What  we  — or  at  least 
I  — failed  to  foresee  accurately  was  the  determination,  per- 
severence,  and  resourcefulness  that  the  entire  WPI  com- 
munity has  brought  to  bear  on  those  problems."  —  George 
Pake,  Vice  President,  Research,  Xerox  Corporation 


"WPI  embarked  on  the  Plan  with  an  already  lean 
faculty:  a  student-faculty  ratio  of  14  to  1.  Every  essential 
feature  of  the  Plan  has  added  to  the  faculty  load;  none  has 
reduced  it.  .  .  . 

"So  why  is  the  Plan  working  so  well?.  .  The  answer 
lies  in  the  faculty's  willingness  to  put  in  extraordinary  effort, 
dedication,  and  long  hours  way  beyond  the  call  of  duty." 
—Eugene  D.  Reed,  Exenutive  Director,  Bell  Laboratories 


"To  create  an  honors  college,  like  Plan  II  at  the 
University  of  Texas,  or  the  subcolleges  of  Michigan 
State,  or  the  E'  program  at  IIT,  is  no  great  trick,  even 
though  I  think  it  a  valuable  accomplishment.  But  to 
reform  a  whole  institution  and  an  entire  set  of  fields  is, 
in  contrast,  unprecedented,  and  in  my  judgment  could 
only  have  been  undertaken  with  a  certain  innocence, 
and  by  people  with  a  dedication  to  the  institution  rather 
than  to  their  specific  disciplines. 

"I  have  visited  classes  taught  by  those  I  have 
referred  to  as  the  'home  guard  loyalists'  of  WPI,  who 
have  been  there  a  long  time,  teacher-scholars  who  are 
not  looking  for  their  next  chance  somewhere  else.  At 
other  engineering  schools  I  have  visited,  people  in  that 
position  would  be  resentful.  At  WPI  I  have  been  im- 
pressed with  their  indomitable  energy  and  dedication, 
their  genuine  interest  in  students  and  their  development, 
and  their  lack  of  evangelical  desire  to  convert  students 
to  supposedly  more  noble  callings.  They  do  not  feel  that 
their  own  status  depends  on  sending  students  to  grad- 
uate school  in  their  own  specialties."  —  David  Riesman, 
Henry  Ford  II  Professor  of  Social  Sciences,  Harvard 
University 


"A  major  effect  of  the  Plan  has  been  to 
substantially  increase  the  level  of  workload  and  stress    ' 
experienced  by  a  large  majority  of  the  faculty.  When 
compared  to  other  schools,  WPI  faculty  reported 
significantly  greater  increases  in  time  devoted  to  school-1 
related  activities  and  significantly  greater  feelings  of 
stress  and  fatigue.  Similarly,  WPI  faculty  reported 
significantly  less  time  available  for  research  and 
consulting  as  a  result  of  implementing  the 
Plan.  .  .  However,  archival  data  do  not  show  that 
research  productivity  has  declined  markedly  at  WPI  sines 
implementation  of  the  Plan.  The  general  trend  suggests 
that  research  activity  declined  slightly  in  the  first  two 
years  of  the  Plan  but  increased  to  record  levels  in  the 
third  year. 

"In  comparison  to  other  schools,  WPI  faculty  spend 
significantly  greater  amounts  of  time  interacting  with 
students,  planning  and  monitoring  project  work,  interact 
ing  with  colleagues  in  other  departments,  and  dealing 
with  outside  organizations  (especially  organizations  of  a 
non-industrial  nature);  and  significantly  more  time 
reading  outside  of  their  special  field. 

"WPI  faculty  view  their  own  school  as  being  a  sub 
stantially  more  fluid,  complex,  and  flexible  environment 
than  do  their  counterparts. 

"The  changes  implemented  by  the  Plan  have  been 
the  source  of  major  frustrations  and  uncertainty  for 
many  faculty,  as  well  as  sources  of  satisfaction.  These 
changes  have  also  resulted  in  considerable  self- 
questioning,  learning,  and  self-initiated  adaptation.  WPI 
faculty  members  have  stretched  their  competencies 
beyond  the  areas  of  expertise  normally  expected  by  th&' 
disciplines."—  from  a  report  on  the  effects  of  the  WPI 
Plan  implementation  on  faculty  and  administration,  by 
Frank  Baker,  State  University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo, 
and  John  J.  Gabarro,  Harvard  University 


"Our  observation  of  the  ingenuity,  resiliency,  and 
dedication  of  faculty  and  administration  in  meeting  the 
tremendous  pressures  to  date  give  us  a  great  deal  of 
confidence  in  the  amount  to  be  achieved  by  this  experi- 
ment."— John  R.  Whinnery,  Professor  of  Electrical 
Engineering,  University  of  California  at  Berkeley 


Plan  is  a  process,  a  living  and  not  a  mechanical  thing, 
depends  heavily  on  the  particular  people  and  events  at 

...  It  is  clear  that  the  surmounting  of  problem  after 
em  was  only  possible  by  a  rather  unique  constellation 
y  people  and  efforts.  .  .  . 

"As  one  student  remarked,  you  can  change  the 
;nts  in  the  course  of  four  years,  but  you  can't  change 
acuity  in  that  time.  It  is  remarkable,  nevertheless,  how 
1  the  faculty  has  changed  in  the  course  of  our  three 
visits,  in  the  sense  of  rising  to  the  challenge  of  the 

I  have  been  impressed  by  the  dedication  of  many  long- 
members  of  the  WPI  faculty  to  the  Plan  and  to  the 
in  which  new  faculty  are  fostering  the  aims  of  the 
"  —  Bruce  Mazlish,  head  of  the  humanities  department, 


Those  are  remarkable  tributes  to  a  remarkable  group 
achers  and  scholars,  the  WPI  faculty.  The  process 
inging  the  WPI  Plan  into  being,  making  it  a  reality 
ad  of  a  theoretical  model,  has  fallen  largely  on  their 
Iders,  and  they  made  it  happen.  They  did  it  at  tre- 
dous  cost  in  time  and  energy,  in  loss  of  income 
jgh  reduced  opportunity  for  consulting,  in  12  and  15 
days  spent  breaking  new  ground  in  teaching  meth- 
and  interactions  across  the  traditional  boundaries  of 
emic  specialization. 

The  kinds  of  sacrifices  they  have  made  cannot  go 
Drever,  and  as  the  Plan  becomes  fully  operational, 
mes  a  more  familiar  and  less  revolutionary  enter- 
,  the  faculty  and  the  Institute  will  have  to  find  new 
better  ways  of  dealing  with  the  overload. 
That  is  the  major  problem  facing  WPI  in  the  next 
years:  How  to  adequately  reward  a  faculty  that  has 
i  more  of  itself  than  perhaps  any  faculty  at  any 
:ution  of  higher  education. 

It  may  not  be  much  to  offer,  but  I'd  like,  here  in  this 
nal,  to  say  "Thank  You"  to  all  of  them.  This  issue  is 
sated  to  the  WPI  faculty,  for  it  is  they,  against  tre- 
dous  odds,  who  conceived,  designed,  and  created 
A/PI  Plan.  All  of  us  at  WPI— whether  we  are 
ents,  administration,  alumni,  parents,  and  just 
ested  bystanders  — owe  them  a  tremendous  debt. 

R.K. 


UIPpMJTMlJ 


Vol.  79.  Nos.  5&  6 


February-April  1976 


3  THE  WPI  PLAN-WHAT.  WHERE,  WHY.  AND  HOW 

4  IN  THE  BEGINNING 

The  tradition  of  innovation  at  WPI 

5  The  Four  Degree  Requirements 

6  Jon  Anderson  —  "Every  engineer  he'd  ever  known  who 'd gone  on 
into  law  made  a  darn  good  lawyer" 

8  THE  BASIC  ELEMENTS  OF  THE  WPI  PLAN 

9  Planning  how  to  make  it  through  the  Plan 

The  importance  of  advising  —  freedom  and  responsibility 


10 

12 

15 

17 
19 
20 

24 
25 
27 
31 
33 
36 
41 
44 


51 


Elaine  Sanderson— What  to  do  when  a  textile  mill  becomei 
jigsaw  puzzle 


Projects:  the  heart  of  the  Plan 


red 


Clifford  Ashton—"We  took  a  different  approach  than  the  ca 
pany  engineers,  and  ours  turned  out  a  lot  closer  to  what  re 
happens" 

The  major  project 

Michael  Kallet  —  "I  never  did  get  a  look  at  liquid  helium  " 

The  interactive  project:  bridging  the  gap  between  technolc 
gy  and  people 


David  Lyons— "Classwork  is  fine,  but ..." 
Laying  it  on  the  line:  the  competency  exam 
David  Demers  —  Answenng  the  siren  call 
Jay  Gainsboro  —  Millionaire  in  the  making? 
HOW  WELL  IS  THE  PLAN  GOING 
What  outsiders  see  in  the  WPI  Plan 
THE  WPI  PLAN  .  .  .  WHAT  IT  ISNT 


GENESIS-THE  BIRTH  OF  THE  WPI  PLAN 

Andreas  de  Rhoda's  account  of  how  the  faculty,  with  the  helper 
President  Storke,  conceived  and  designed  the  WPI  Plan.  You 
might  call  it  a  blueprint  of  how  to  turn  an  institution  upside  dovw 
...  or  maybe  right  side  up? 

A  FRESHPERSON  GUIDE  TO  WPI 

Excerpts  from  a  student-produced  publication  introducing  new 
students  to  life  under  the  WPI  Plan. 


ALUMNI  SECTION  (following  page28) 
A1        On  the  Hill 

A2       8  oars  and  1  flying  saucer;  to  Canada,  please 

The  story  of  five  WPI  athletes  who  are  trying  for  berths  on  the 
U.S.  Olympic  team. 

A10      Your  Class  and  Others 


Fd,tor    H    Russell  Kay 

Alumm  Information  Editor    Ruth  A    Trask 

Publications  Committee   Walter  B    Dennen. 
)i     '51  Donald  F    Berth,  '57. 

vski.    74    Robert  C    Gosling, 
68.  Enfneri  T    Larson.  '22.  Roger  N    Perry 
Jr  .   45   Rev  Edward  I    Swanson,   45 

Kdv 
•  Printing 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  JOURNAL,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617  753  1411) 

rhe  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute    Copyright©  1975  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a 
August,  September,  October,  Decern 
ber,  February,  and  April    Second  Class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Postmattat    PIMM  send  Form  3579  to  Alum 
ni  Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In 
Btitute,  Worcester.  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.A   Julian,  '49 
R.A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary  Treasurer:  S.J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President:  W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members  at  large:  B.  I 
Hosmer,  '61;  L.  Polizzotto  '70;  J. A.  Palley, 
'46;  J.  L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.H.  White,  '41;  G.A.  Anderson,  '51;  H.I. 
Nelson,  '54;  PH.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.J. 
Maguire,  '66 


he  WPI  Plan- 

/hat,  where,  why,  and  how 


L  WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  INSTITUTE  has 
mm  been  the  center  of  a  unique  transformation 
W  over  the  last  decade.  Completely  changing  its 
tional  goals,  methods,  and  measurements,  WPI 
ht  forth  a  system  called  "The  WPI  Plan."  It  did 

in  one  step,  with  requiring  specific  courses  be 

the  Plan  put  major  emphasis  on  project-oriented 
ence,  on  self -motivation,  and  above  all  on  a 
lor's  degree  based  on  the  student's  demonstrating 
Dfessional  competence  in  his  field  of  specialization. 
he  WPI  Plan.  The  phrase  is  familiar  to  all  WPI 
i,  parents,  and  students.  But  what  -is  the  WPI 
What  does  it  mean— to  the  student,  to  the  faculty, 

Institute  itself,  to  past  graduates,  to  engineering 
tion?  What  does  it  mean?  Is  it  significant,  and  if 
ly  is  it  significant?  And  most  basic  of  all:  Does  it 

And  how  well? 

or  five  years  the  WPI  Plan  has  been  in  a  state  of 
ling.  It  was  difficult  for  us  on  campus  to  know,  at 

just  what  to  make  of  it  all.  There  were  enormous 
ms  involved  in  trying  to  make  a  theoretical  educa- 
model  into  a  smoothly  functioning  system, 
nd  when  we  tried  to  explain  to  people  who  were 
v/olved  just  what  was  this  WPI  Plan,  we  found  that 
d  people  had  quite  the  same  idea  of  what  it  was 
to  become.  The  WPI  Plan  had  so  many  different 
:s  that  needed  explanation,  it  was  difficult  for 
of  us  on  campus,  much  less  outsiders,  to  describe 
/vas  going  on.  Sometimes  we  didn't  know  for  sure 
ves  just  what  were  the  trees  and  where  was  the 

ut  now  things  are  clearer.  For  two  years,  every 
it  entering  WPI  has  been  studying  under  the  Plan. 
s  June  more  than  550  students  will  have  earned 
lor  of  Science  degrees  under  the  Plan.  Thousands 
jects  have  been  undertaken  by  WPI  students.  We 
now  just  what  the  WPI  Plan  is,  and  what  it  can 

nd  in  this  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal,  we'd  like  to 
d  share  some  of  the  excitement  of  what  the  WPI 
>  — as  people  who  are  interested  and  involved  with 
/ou  want  to  know  just  what  is  happening  at  the 
I.  So  here  is  the  WPI  Plan  — what,  where,  why,  and 


As  I  sit  here  and  write  material  for  this  issue,  I  am 
fair  game  for  charges  of  bias  — after  all,  WPI  pays  my 
salary.  But  throughout  I  have  tried  to  substitute  the 
thoughts  of  others  whenever  a  judgment  or  evaluation 
seems  called  for.  Most  of  all  I  have  drawn  upon  the 
reports  made  to  the  National  Science  Foundation  by  an 
outside  panel  of  educators,  engineers,  and  scientists 
who  visited  WPI  twice  a  year  for  two  days  at  a  time 
during  the  three  crucial  years  when  the  WPI  plan  was 
being  put  into  operation.  In  a  later  section  of  the  maga- 
zine, I  discuss  the  panel  at  some  length.  But  their  views 
of  the  WPI  Plan  were  too  wide-ranging,  too  thoughtful, 
too  close  to  the  nerve,  merely  to  be  set  off  by  them- 
selves. In  fact,  their  perceptions  of  WPI  pervade  this 
issue  and  provide  a  unique  insight  into  the  WPI  Plan. 

One  final  word.  In  writing  this  issue,  it  became  clear 
that  64  pages  of  impersonal  and  educational 
rhetoric  would  find  no  audience  still  awake  by 
the  end.  So  we've  tried  to  make  these  stories  as  human 
and  as  interesting  as  possible.  Because  the  WPI  Plan,  in 
action,  really  ends  up  being  more  than  simply  the  sum  of 
its  parts,  we've  included  profiles  of  seven 
students— 1974  and  1975  WPI  graduates  — and  their 
academic  careers  at  WPI.  And  we've  scattered  them 
throughout  the  issue.  We  feel  that  it  is  in  these  profiles 
that  you  can  see  just  how  the  Plan  operates,  how 
students  choose  the  elements  of  their  programs,  and 
how  one  aspect  of  the  WPI  Plan  relates  in  practice  to 
another. 


In  the  beginning 


"This  Institute  has  a  claim  to  public  favor  and  indulgem 
consideration  because  it  is  the  first  attempt  in  our 
country  to  combine  theoretic  knowledge  and  practical 
training."  — Stephen  Salisbury  II,  1871 

"This  school  was  not  framed  on  the  model  of  any 
existing  elsewhere."  — Seth  Sweetser 

"The  whole  scheme  must  be  regarded  as  an  experiment 
in  American  education,  which,  at  the  present  stage,  is 
sufficiently  promising  to  warrant  its  further  prosecu- 
tion." —Catalog,  1871 


Right  from  the  beginning,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute  was  an  innovator,  an  institution  in  the  forefron 
of  educational  practice.  But  somewhere  along  the  way, 
that  thread  of  innovation  and  experimentation  got  put 
aside.  And  so  it  was  in  the  late  1960s  that  a  group  of 
concerned  faculty  drafted  a  new  statement  of  purpose 
for  WPI  and  developed  a  radical  new  approach  to  the 
education  of  scientists  and  engineers. 

"By  means  of  coordinated  programs  tailored  to  the  neec 
of  the  individual  student,  it  is  the  fundamental  purpose 
of  WPI  to  impart  to  students  an  understanding  of  a 
sector  of  science  and  technology  and  a  mature  under- 
standing of  themselves  and  the  needs  of  the  people 
around  them.  WPI  students,  from  the  beginning  of  thei\ 
undergraduate  education,  should  demonstrate  that  they 
can  learn  on  their  own,  that  they  can  translate  their 
learning  into  worthwhile  action,  and  that  they  are 
thoroughly  aware  of  the  interrelationships  among  basic 
knowledge,  technological  advance,  and  human  need.  A 
WPI  education  should  develop  in  students  a  strong 
degree  of  self-confidence,  an  awareness  of  the 
community  beyond  themselves,  and  an  intellectual 
restlessness  that  spurs  them  to  continued  learning." 
—endorsed  by  the  WPI  faculty,  1969 


From  that  statement  of  goals,  let  us  first  describe  the 
basics  of  the  WPI  Plan,  the  four  degree  requirements: 
two  projects,  a  minor  in  humanities,  and  a  competency 
examination.  It  is  these  four  items  that  mark  the  corner 
stones  of  WPI's  educational  edifice. 


he  Tour  degree  requirements 


,  The  Major  Qualifying 
roject 

ch  student  must  investigate  a  problem  in  his  major 
Id  of  interest.  This  project  is  expected  to  occupy  the 
ident's  time  for  the  equivalent  of  seven  weeks  full- 
ie  (which  at  WPI  is  reckoned  at  around  50  hours  a 
;ek).  The  student  may  work  alone  or  in  conjunction 
th  other  students,  on  campus  or  at  an  off-campus 
ernship  center.  A  faculty  advisor  will  guide  the 
ident,  but  it  is  the  student's  own  motivation,  inde- 
ndent  action,  and  ability  to  learn  on  his  own  that  will 
termine  his  progress. 

Major  projects  typically  deal  with  real  problems, 
ey  are  not  made-up,  hypothetical,  or  imaginary  situa- 
ns  to  be  dealt  with.  Often  the  projects  are  supplied 
,  and  done  in  conjunction  with,  businesses,  industries, 
d  social  and  governmental  agencies  who  can  call  on 
}  resources  of  WPI  students  and  faculty  in  dealing 
:h  their  particular  problems. 

Each  student  working  on  a  major  degree  project 
ist  submit  a  final  report  on  the  project,  though  some- 
les  these  are  done  as  identified  sections  of  a  joint 
>ort.  The  project  is  evaluated  by  faculty  and  by  out- 
e  people  who  have  been  involved. 

The  Interactive  Qualifying 
roject 

second  project  is  also  required.  It  may  be  a  second 
ijor  project,  but  students  are  strongly  encouraged  to 
t  involved  in  a  project  which  will  relate  technology  and 
$ir  major  field  of  interest  to  the  very  real  needs  of 
:iety.  These  Interactive  Qualifying  Projects  force  stu- 
nts to  become  aware  of  the  consequences  of  technol- 
y  and  its  impact  on  our  lives,  to  consider  moral  and 
lical  values  as  they  relate  to  their  professional  fields. 


committee.  An  oral  examination  follows,  and  here  the 
student's  method  of  attack,  the  soundness  of 
fundamental  principles  and  alternate  approaches  are 
discussed  and  questioned.  The  exam  is  designed  to  test 
for  understanding  of  methods,  ability  to  use  available 
resources,  grasp  of  fundamental  principles  and  theories, 
and  ability  to  apply  current  techniques.  All  this  is  done 
under  fairly  tight  deadlines,  so  it  also  measures  the 
student's  performance  under  pressure. 

4.  The  Sufficiency 

Students  majoring  in  science  or  engineering  are  required 
to  develop  a  specific  minor  in  the  humanities.  Students 
must  select  five  thematically  related  courses  in  the 
humanities,  and  then,  in  a  sixth  activity  (usually  inde- 
pendent study)  the  student  must  write  a  paper  that  de- 
velops his  particular  area.  This  sufficiency  involves  the 
same  amount  of  work  and  academic  credit  as  the  two 
degree-qualifying  projects  combined. 

Students  who  are  majoring  in  a  humanities  or  social 
science  area  are  required  to  develop  a  sufficiency  in 
science  or  engineering. 

4  +  .  A  Few  Miscellaneous 
Requirements 

Although  the  previous  four  degree  requirements  are  the 
whole  of  the  WPI  Plan,  the  college  does  have  a  few 
smaller  requirements  for  graduation. 

Each  student  must  complete  12  units  (the  equivalent 
of  three  years)  of  work  before  taking  the  competency 
exam.  For  transfer  students,  there  is  a  minimum  resi- 
dence requirement  of  8  units  of  work. 

Four  physical  education  courses  must  be  completed. 


.  The  Competency 
xamination 

student's  competence  is  tested  through  a  complex 
)blem,  or  series  of  problems,  much  like  what  the 
jdent  can  expect  to  encounter  as  he  or  she  begins  a 
reer.  The  student  is  assigned  one  or  more  problems 
d  has  access  to  reference  materials,  computer 
:ilities,  library,  laboratories,  and  so  forth.  At  the  end  of 
designated  period,  usually  two  days,  the  student 
bmits  a  written  report  back  to  his  examination 


PLEASE  NOTE: 
The  photo- 
graphs that  il- 
lustrate this 
issue  have  been 
chosen  for  their 
depiction  of  ac- 
tivities involving 
WPI  students 
and  faculty.  In 
most  cases, 
however,  indi- 
viduals who  are 
specifically  re- 
ferred to  in  ac- 
companying ar- 
ticles are  not 
shown  in  photo- 
graphs because 
none  were  avail- 
able. 


Jon  Anderson— 

"Every  engineer  he'd  ever 
known  who'd  gone  on  into  law 
made  a  darn  good  lawyer" 

Jon  Anderson  wants  to  go  into  politics.  So  of  course  he 
started  off  by  majoring  in  chemical  engineering  at  WPI. 
"I  talked  with  a  lawyer  in  my  hometown  in  Vermont 
who  went  on  to  become  lieutenant  governor.  He  said 
that  engineering  was  a  real  good  background  for  law, 
and  that  every  engineer  that  he'd  ever  known  who'd 
gone  on  into  law  made  a  darn  good  lawyer." 

Jon  looked  at  three  engineering  schools  in  New 
England.  "I  went  down  to  WPI  and  had  an  interview 
about  the  Plan.  After  that  I  didn't  even  bother  to  inter- 
view the  other  two  schools  because  they  seemed  to  be 
caught  up  in  more  traditional  education.  The  idea  of  go- 
ing to  WPI  where  people  were  discussing  what  was  the 
best  education -rather  than  having  settled  on  one  thing 
and  you  just  have  to  fit  the  mold  — that,  I  think,  was 
what  really  attracted  me." 

Jon  chose  chemical  engineering  because  he  felt  it 
really  combined  both  science  and  engineering.  He  feels 
this  background  will  be  helpful  to  him  in  the  future  by 
enabling  him  to  communicate  with  scientists  and  under- 
stand the  process  of  scientific  research  as  well  as  en- 
gineering and  problem-solving. 


One  of  the  most  exciting  parts  of  Jon's  program 
was  his  interactive  qualifying  project.  He  videotaped  thi 
Senate  Watergate  Committee  hearings  and  edited  their 
down  to  a  6V2  hour  presentation.  "We  thought  the 
Watergate  hearings  would  go  on  for  two  weeks,  certair 
ly  no  longer  than  three.  Then  I  would  sit  down  and  pre 
pare  an  hour-long  tape  reviewing  the  hearings  and  tyini 
them  into  American  history.  We  didn't  think  it  would  b 
that  big  a  job. 

"After  the  hearings  had  gone  on  for  several  month 
we  began  to  change  the  focus  of  the  project.  And  we 
ran  into  some  money  problems.  We  had  originally  hope 
to  save  good  sections  of  tape  and  erase  the  rest.  And 
after  a  while  that  just  became  impossible.  So  we  starte< 
to  run  over  our  budget,  but  Dean  Bolz  stretched  a  poin 
and  committed  some  more  money  to  buy  tape.  For  the 
school,  it  really  only  amounted  to  buying  the  tape  befoi 
they  would  normally,  because  after  the  whole  project 
was  over  the  tapes  would  be  available  to  be  erased  anc 
reused. 


"So  around  Christmas  time,  1973,  I  edited  the  tapes 
to  a  four  hour  and  twenty  minute  story  of  what  hap- 
>ned  at  the  Watergate.  We  juxtaposed  Nixon's  account 
id  Haldeman's  and  Erlichmann's  accounts  with  those 
John  Dean  and  some  of  the  others.  I  tried  to  be  very 
ir  about  it,  because  I  was  managing  editor  of  the  WPI 
Bwspeak,  and  because  I  was  very  conscious  of  Nixon's 
tacks  on  the  press.  Then  I  put  together  a  half-hour 
gment  on  wiretapping  — how  society  tried  to  control 
iretapping  and  its  technology,  and  failed  in  this  case, 
nally,  there  is  an  hour-and-a-half  exploration  of  the  rea- 
mings  that  different  people  used  in  justifying  their 
eaking  the  law,  doing  things  they  knew  to  be  illegal. 

"From  this  project,  I  really  knew  that  I  wanted  to  be 
lawyer.  And  I  became  much  more  careful  about  my 
vn  behavior  and  feelings.  I  thought  about  honesty  and 
jcame  much  more  aware  of  the  way  we  all  have  our 
tie  Watergates,  as  someone  put  it. 

"All  in  all,  it  was  quite  a  project.  The  result  is  six 
>urs  and  twenty  minutes  of  videotape;  it  represents 
9ll  over  500  hours  of  work  by  me.  I  got  a  tremendous 
nount  of  confidence  in  being  able  to  do  all  that." 

Jon's  major  project  in  chemical  engineering  was 
mcerned  with  molecular  sieve  zeolites— compounds 
nich  are  able  to  separate  out  parts  of  other  fluids.  Oil 
impanies  use  them  in  refining;  they  make  possible  low- 
temperatures  and  pressures,  and  they  save  money, 
lother  use  is  to  separate  pollutants  from  smokestack 
ises.  To  use  them  in  this  way,  one  needs  to  know  how 
st  gases  diffuse  through  the  packed  beds  of  the  small 
olite  crystals.  Anderson  attempted  to  compare  two  dif- 
rent  methods  of  determining  the  rates  at  which  differ- 
t  gases  diffuse  — one  very  simple  and  one  much  more 
implicated.  His  results  did  not  seem  to  indicate  any 
asonable  method  of  comparison.  "I  worked  harder  on 
at  than  anything  else  I  did  at  WPI.  It  was  fairly  frus- 
iting.  I  guess  I  know  how  rugged  scientific  work  is 
iw,  and  I  have  a  deep  appreciation  for  how  hard  and 
iw  frustrating  it  can  be." 

To  meet  the  sufficiency  requirement,  Jon  did  three 
urses  worth  of  independent  study  on  foreign  policy 
d  presidential  elections,  together  with  other  course 
Drk.  For  his  final  paper,  Jon  studied  the  politics  of 
)yall  Tyler,  the  first  American  comedy  playwright  to  be 
ofessionally  produced,  and  a  man  who  later  became 
ief  justice  of  the  Vermont  Supreme  Court.  Jon  hap- 
ned  to  pick  Tyler  because  they  shared  the  same 
imetown,  Brattleboro.  Jon  discovered  that  Tyler  had 
en  adamantly  opposed  to  slavery  until  1801,  when  he 
/itched  parties  from  the  New  England-based  Federalist 
irty  to  the  southern  Democratic/Republican  Party.  And 
ter  1801  he  never  said  another  word  about  slavery  or 
e  South.  Jon's  paper  was  published  by  the  Vermont 
storical  Society. 


At  competency  exam  time,  Jon  was  "shocked  and 
horrified.  They  made  it  sound  like  just  months  and 
months  of  work  in  the  assignment,  and  we  only  had  five 
days.  But  what  they  really  intended  was  for  me  to  take 
that  assignment,  figure  out  what  was  most  important, 
and  do  five  good  days  of  work  on  it." 

Jon  graduated  two  terms  early,  by  taking  overloads 
(mostly  independent  study)  for  much  of  his  time.  He 
was  happy  to  be  able  to  do  this,  because  he  spent  the 
time  until  the  next  September  working  to  earn  money 
for  his  first  year  at  Yale  Law  School.  Washing  dishes. 
"Dish  washing  was  the  first  thing  I  found,  and  the  job 
situation  up  here  in  Vermont  was  pretty  bad.  But  by  liv- 
ing at  home  I  saved  nearly  everything  I  earned." 

UIPI 


The  basic  elements 
of  the  WPI  Plan 


lanning  how  to  make  it 
hrough  the  Plan 


rwo  of  the  most  important  aspects  of  life  under 
the  Plan  are  the  design  and  planning  of  each 
student's  individual  program,  and  the  part  that  the 
:ulty  advisor  plays  in  this  process. 

Freed  from  the  traditional  structure  of  required 
jrses,  the  WPI  student  has  the  entire  course  catalog 
en  to  him  or  her.  A  major  field  of  interest  need  not 
iform  to  a  previously  established  standard  sequence; 
;  student  is  able  to  design  his  own  major  program,  so 
g  as  it  is  one  in  which  the  faculty  can  assess  his 
npetence. 

Roy  Seaberg,  associate  director  of  admissions  and  a 
j6  WPI  graduate  in  civil  engineering,  recalls  the 
dity  of  the  curriculum  when  he  was  a  student:  "In  the 
:  semester  of  my  senior  year,  I  had  one  elective 
irse.  Everything  else  was  prescribed  in  the  catalog." 

By  contrast,  Plan  students  have  the  freedom  to 
)lore  other  areas,  to  combine  course  offerings  from 
:erent  departments  to  meet  their  specific  interests.  For 
imple,  the  last  Commencement  program  listed  the  fol- 
ding fields  (in  addition  to  the  traditional  departments) 
which  students  received  bachelor's  degrees: 

Urban  and  environmental  planning 

Urban  development  planning 

Applied  mathematics 

Digital  systems 

Electrical  instrumentation 

Power  systems 

Sanitary  and  water  resources  engineering 

Experimental  nuclear  science 

Chemistry:  bioinorganic  emphasis 

Interdisciplinary:  chemistry-life  science 

Dramatic  literature 

Chemistry:  organic  emphasis 

American  History 

Chemistry:  mineral  chemistry  emphasis 

Systems  software  engineering 

Life  sciences  and  engineering 

Structural  engineering 

Mathematical  physics 

Transportation 

Interactive  operating  systems 

Mechanics  and  design 

Electronic  systems 

Applied  nuclear  physics 

Environmental  studies 

Transportation  engineering 

Environmental  science 

Urban  planning 

Chemistry:  chemical  education  emphasis 


The  price  the  student  pays  for  this  freedom  is  the 
responsibility  for  designing  a  program  — courses  and 
project  work— that  hangs  together  and  accomplishes  the 
student's  goals.  If  the  student  arrives  ill-prepared  for  his 
competency  exam,  the  fault  should  lie  squarely  on  his 
own  shoulders.  To  help  prevent  such  last-minute 
disasters,  the  faculty  advising  system  has  been  set  up. 

To  be  sure,  there  were  advisors  before  the  Plan,  but 
their  role  has  taken  on  significant  new  meaning  under 
the  WPI  Plan.  Because  of  the  individualized  approaches 
that  can  be  taken,  each  student  generally  needs  more 
advising  than  under  a  more  traditional  program:  more 
frequent  contact  with  his  advisors,  and  more  time  spent 
with  them. 

A  student  begins  designing  his  or  her  program  even 
before  arriving  at  WPI.  Correspondence  during  the 
summer  before  that  first  term  between  incoming  stu- 
dents and  the  Dean  of  Academic  Advising  begins  the 
process  of  exploring  alternatives.  During  the  first  year  in 
particular,  students  are  encouraged  to  "shop  around" 
and  sample  courses  from  different  areas— mindful,  to  be 
sure,  of  the  basic  need  for  beginning  math  and  science 
course  work. 

As  the  student's  experience  grows,  as  he  finds  out 
about  the  possibilities  open,  discovers  the  directions  in 
which  his  interests  lie,  his  plans  typically  grow  more  spe- 
cific: he  begins  to  have  a  picture  of  the  kind  of  program 
he  wants  to  develop,  perhaps  becoming  interested  or  in- 
volved in  a  project  to  help  test  out  those  interests. 

In  his  first  year  or  two,  the  WPI  student  can  rely 
heavily  on  the  counsel  of  his  advisor;  but  he  soon  learns 
his  way  around,  begins  getting  informal  advising  from 
other  faculty  members,  particularly  if  his  interests  are 
changing.  And  of  course,  the  student  learns  from  other 
students  just  what  the  score  is  regarding  the  value  (as 
well  as  the  difficulty)  of  certain  courses  and  instructors, 
and  the  strengths,  weaknesses,  and  idiosyncrasies  of 
given  departments. 

Some  faculty  members  are  better  at  teaching  that  at 
research,  and  vice  versa.  Just  so,  some  faculty  members 
are  better  at  advising  students  than  are  others.  This  has 
presented  problems  for  many  students  and  faculty, 
problems  that  have  attracted  a  lot  of  attention.  Putting 
them  in  perspective,  however,  one  outside  observer, 
Bruce  Mazlish  of  M.I.T.,  has  said:  "Advisors  are 
obviously  an  important  part  of  any  college  experience. 
...  In  my  own  view,  the  situation  [at  WPI]  is  no 
different  from  that  of  any  other  college  or  university. 
Advisors  will  vary  greatly  in  quality,  and  the  students 
equally  so  in  their  need  to  have  advisors  with  whom 
they  do  or  do  not  work  closely." 


Elaine  Sanderson  — 

What  to  do  when  a  textile  mill 
becomes  a  jigsaw  puzzle! 

"My  father  had  gone  to  WPI,  and  when  I  was  little  I 
asked  him  if  I  could  go  to  this  school.  He  said,  "Well,  by 
the  time  you're  old  enough,  there  might  be  girls  there.' 
And  sure  enough  there  are.  So  here  I  am." 

In  high  school,  Elaine  Sanderson  was  especially 
interested  in  math,  although  before  she  graduated  she 
had  changed  her  sights.  She  started  off  her  first  two 
years  at  WPI  with  courses  in  chemistry,  math,  physics, 
and  basic  engineering.  By  the  middle  of  her  second  year, 
Elaine  had  settled  on  civil  engineering  as  her  major.  "I 
was  in  environmental  engineering,  but  I  didn't  see  any 
future  in  it  for  the  direction  I  wanted  to  go  in.  But  I  had 
taken  a  physics  course  with  mechanics,  and  I  really  liked 
mechanics.  Civil  engineering  is  pretty  close  to  that,  and  I 
finally  decided  that's  what  I  really  wanted." 

During  her  second  year,  Elaine  finished  her  interac- 
tive project.  She  was  part  of  a  group  working  with  the 
Worcester  Juvenile  Court,  investigating  the  feasibility  of 
a  centralized  computer  information  system  covering  the 
police,  probation  officers,  the  court  itself,  and  all  the  dif- 
ferent agencies  that  work  with  juveniles.  The  group  dis- 
covered that  there  was  an  enormous  amount  of  dupli- 
cated information  the  different  agencies  were  collecting 
separately.  Elaine's  group  proposed  a  central  data  bank 
which  everyone  could  draw  on,  but  which  would  not 
contain  "sensitive"  information  that  shouldn't  be  avail- 
able to  many  of  the  users.  The  plan  was  never  imple- 
mented because  state  legislation  was  changed  in  such  a 
way  as  to  forbid  the  concept. 

One  of  the  real  values  of  this  project,  according  to 
Elaine,  was  the  experience  in  learning  how  to  deal  with 
people  in  public  life  — how  not  to  step  on  their  toes,  how 
not  to  offend  them  so  they  won't  talk  to  you.  "And  then 
you  get  back  on  campus  and  you  have  to  present  your 
report,  so  you  get  a  lot  of  practice  getting  up  in  front  of 
groups  and  talking  about  it.  We  presented  our  results  to 
at  least  ten  other  students  working  with  the  juvenile 
court,  plus  probation  officers,  representatives  of  other 
agencies  related  to  the  court,  and  some  professors." 
Was  it  an  unnerving  experience?  "I  thought  it  was  fun." 


During  her  senior  year,  Elaine  served  as  chairman  o 
the  Worcester  branch  of  the  Society  of  Women 
Engineers.  In  fact,  she  was  instrumental  in  the  organiza- 
tion's formation,  knocking  on  dorm  doors  to  drum  up 
interest  among  women  students.  She  was  also  a  mem- 
ber of  the  women's  crew  team  — which  meant  getting  u| 
at  5:30  every  morning  in  the  fall  to  go  out  and  row,  run- 
ning three  miles  a  day  during  the  winter  months,  as  wel 
as  working  out  with  weights,  and  rowing  once  or  twice 
a  day  during  spring  .  .  .  including  spring  vacation.  But 
the  outdoors  has  a  strong  appeal  for  Elaine,  and  she  wa 
also  a  member  of  the  Outing  Club  and  the  Canoe/Kayak 
Club.  And  maybe  that's  a  part  of  the  reason  she  chose 
civil  engineering. 

Elaine's  major  project  got  its  start  while  she  was 
taking  an  Intersession  course  at  nearby  Old  Sturbridge 
Village.  One  of  their  problems  was  to  move  a  cotton 
mill,  dating  from  1823,  from  its  present  location  in 
Phoenixville,  Connecticut,  to  Sturbridge.  In  order  to  do 
this,  the  building  had  to  be  completely  dismantled  and 
then  reassembled.  Elaine  had  to  do  a  complete  engineer 
ing  study  of  the  building,  to  determine  how  sound  were 
the  original  materials,  particularly  wooden  beams  and 
stonework,  and  how  well  they  would  withstand  the  mov 
ing  process.  She  had  to  figure  out  what  had  to  be  re- 
placed and  what  could  be  preserved.  Finally,  Elaine  had 
to  investigate  what  additional  supporting  structures  had 
to  be  built  to  make  the  building  safe  for  the  millions  of 
visitors  who  will  troop  through  it.  This  was  a  particularly 
difficult  phase  of  the  problem  because  she  also  had  to 
preserve,  as  much  as  possible,  the  original  appearance  o 
the  structure.  This  meant  hiding  the  required  electrical 
wiring  and  sprinkler  systems  by  designing  false  floors 
and  ceilings,  to  use  one  example. 

Elaine's  work  has  given  Old  Sturbridge  Village  a 
careful  and  detailed  estimate  of  the  amount  of  work  thai 
will  be  needed— and  the  money  it  will  take  — to  relocate 
and  reconstruct  the  old  mill. 

Elaine's  sufficiency  was  closely  related  to  her  projec 
work:  she  did  a  paper  on  New  England  industrial  mills, 
after  having  taken  courses  in  the  history  of  technology, 
urban  history,  and  a  number  of  related  Intersession 
courses  involving  historical  concerns  and  field  trips 
around  New  England. 

During  the  fall  of  her  senior  year,  Elaine  took  her 
competency  exam.  And  flunked  it.  "I  wasn't  ready  for  it 
then.  I  had  only  one  year  of  civil  engineering  courses, 
which  wasn't  enough.  Now,  later,  I  can  see  how  much 
more  material  I  have  gained,  how  much  I  didn't  have  be| 
fore.  Civil  has  five  or  six  distinct  areas,  and  since  I'm  go 
ing  into  general  civil  engineering  I  should  have  some 
knowledge  of  several  of  these  different  areas.  I'm 
basically  a  structural  engineer,  but  I  do  have  to  know 
about  wastewater  treatment,  construction  management, 
planning,  soil  mechanics.  You  have  to  get  a  very  well- 
rounded  background  to  be  a  general  civil  engineer.  And 
the  competency  makes  you  do  that."  In  March,  Elaine 
retook  the  competency  exam  and  passed. 


m 


-  *<. 


i  i 


m 


M 


i 


Projects:  the  heart  of  the  Plan 


Projects  are  the  central  educational  experience 
under  the  WPI  Plan.  And  there's  a  good  reason 
for  that. 

"Bright  kids  used  to  come  here  with  pet  projects 
they  wanted  to  work  on,"  says  Dean  William  R.  Grogan. 
"We  would  tell  them,  'No,  you  put  that  aside  until  you 
have  taken  math  and  chemistry  and  physics,  and  so  on.' 
If  they  wouldn't  do  it  our  way,  we'd  flunk  them. 

"That  was  short-sighted.  Now  we  encourage   stu- 
dents to  pursue  their  pet  projects,  let  them  work  on 
them  until  they  discover  for  themselves  just  what  kind  of 
theoretical  background  they  really  need  to  continue. 
Then  the  students  have  a  genuine  interest  in  that  basic 
course  we  want  them  to  take,  and  we  don't  have  to 
force  it  down  their  throats." 

There  are  other  important  benefits  to  project  work. 
It  involves  students  in  groups  and  teams,  and  they  can 
learn  how  to  work  together  to  solve  a  problem.  Most  of 
the  projects  at  WPI,  whether  they  originate  with  stu- 
dents, faculty,  or  outside  WPI,  are  real  problems  that 
need  solving;  they're  not  makework,  and  they're  not 
trivial.  Many  are  directed  at  solving  real  and  immediate 
problems  faced  by  business  and  industry,  government 
and  social  agencies  that  have  working  arrangements 
with  WPI. 

There  are  four  basic  elements  to  every  project.  First 
is  the  idea  or  problem  itself.  Second  is  the  student  or 


student  team  to  work  on  it.  Third  is  the  faculty  advisor. 
And  fourth  are  the  resources  that  the  project  team  can 
call  upon,  which  often  include  extensive  facilities  and/or 
cooperation  from  a  participating  outside  sponsoring 
organization. 

Each  project  has  one  or  more  faculty  advisors  who 
will  act  as  counselors,  resources,  prodders,  overseers, 
and  ultimately  as  evaluators  and  graders.  Generally  a 
faculty  advisor  will  be  involved  because  the  project  is  in 
his  special  area  of  interest  (or  maybe  it's  not,  but  he 
happens  to  be  interested  in  the  problem  anyway).  For 
many  projects,  there  are  several  advisors  from  different 
fields. 

While  two  projects  are  required  for  graduation,  stu- 
dents are  expected  to  work  on  other  projects  too— as 
preparation  for  the  degree-qualifying  projects,  and  as 
projects  in  their  own  right.  The  Plan  originally  envisioned 
students  spending  25  percent  of  their  time  on  projects 
and  independent  study.  In  practice,  it  has  worked  out  to 
slightly  less  than  that. 

Because  the  nature  of  project  work  is  so  basically 
different  from  classroom  work,  many  students  have 
found  difficulty  in  adapting.  To  help  ease  the  transition, 
a  new  course,  "Project  Initiation,"  is  offered  to  introduce 
students  to  some  of  the  things  that  will  be  expected  of 
them,  and  to  give  them  some  practical  working  and 
organizational  tools  for  projects. 


The  outside  participating  organizations  are  an 
portant  part  of  the  project  structure.  They  provide  real 
d  urgent  problems  for  students  to  work  on,  they  offer 
vide  variety  of  resources  and  working  environments 
students  to  sample,  and  they  keep  a  fresh  and  steady 
w  of  new  ideas  coming  in  to  WPI,  which  helps  keep 
dents  and  faculty  aware  of  the  current  technical  prob- 
is  of  business  and  industry. 

There  are  several  levels  of  participation  by  outside 
lanizations.  The  most  extensive  is  when  WPI  and  the 
lanization  agree  to  establish  an  off-campus  Project 
nter  inside  that  organization,  where  a  number  of  proj- 
s  will  be  going  on  at  all  times.  A  faculty  member  will 
assigned  as  site  director,  who  will  be  in  general 
jrge  of  the  projects  and  the  students.  Right  now  there 
Project  Centers  at 

Digital  Equipment  Corporation,  Maynard,  Mass. 

Norton  Company,  Worcester,  Mass. 

Small  Business  Administration,  Boston,  Mass. 

St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester,  Mass. 

U.S.  Army  Laboratories,  Natick,  Mass. 

WPI  Project  Center,  Washington,  D.C. 

In  addition  to  these  project  centers,  there  are  many 
anizations  which  have  sustained  project  activity  over 
extended  period  of  time— as  much  as  four  years  in 
ne  cases.  These  project  locations  include: 

Central  Massachusetts  Regional  Planning 
Commission 

Data  General  Corporation 

General  Electric  Company 

Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Corporation 

Sprague  Electric  Company 

New  England  Electric  Systems 

Worcester  Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology 

Worcester  Science  Center 

Finally,  several  hundred  other  organizations  have 

nsored  WPI  student  projects,  including: 

American  Optical  Company 

American  Telephone  &  Telegraph 

Army  Materials  &  Mechanics  Research  Center 

Cape  Cod  Planning  Commission 

Department  of  Commerce,  Washington,  D.C. 

Department  of  Health,  Education,  and  Welfare, 
Washington,  D.C. 

Department  of  Transportation,  Washington,  D.C. 

Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Develop- 
ment, Washington,  D.C. 

Environmental  Protection  Agency,  Washington,  D.C. 

Hewlett-Packard,  Inc. 

Honeywell  Corporation 

New  Haven  (Conn.)  School  System 

Society  of  Plastics  Engineers 

State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company 

Thermo  Electron  Corporation 

Thorn  McAn,  Incorporated 

Uniroyal,  Incorporated 

Western  Electric  Company 

Weyerhaeuser  Paper  Corporation 

Worcester  Airport 

Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Company 


13 


if  ford  Ashton  — 

Ve  took  a  different  approach 
an  the  company  engineers, 
d  ours  turned  out  a  lot  closer 
what  really  happens" 


sn  we  talk  about  the  WPI  Plan,  we  often  stress  some 
ie  more  "exotic"  programs  which  have  been  done, 
i  as  Dave  Demers'  fire  protection  major.  But  what 
ut  the  more  common  type  of  engineering  program? 
Cliff  Ashton  is  a  mechanical  engineer.  He  chose 
I,  after  looking  over  a  number  of  schools  (including 
e  in  England),  because  of  the  individual  responsibility 
ed  on  a  student  by  the  WPI  Plan  and  the  ability  to 
his  own  program. 

"In  planning  my  program,  I  got  a  lot  of  help  from 
folks.  My  father  is  associated  with  engineering, 
Dugh  he's  not  an  engineer  himself.  I  got  inputs  from 
advisor  and  from  friends  who  had  already  been 
ugh  the  mill.  And  I  decided  I  wanted  to  get  an 
ergraduate  degree  in  mechanical  engineering  — not  to 
:ialize  in  any  one  field  but  to  get  a  firm  background 
I  the  engineering  sciences,  a  good  grasp  of  the 
iamentals,  and  then  go  on  from  there.  I've  found 
the  more  I  learn  about  engineering,  the  more  I  think 
Dest  for  an  engineer  to  have  a  grasp  of  all  the  differ- 
areas.  In  ME  this  might  include  machine  design,  heat 


transfer,  fluids.  In  the  future  I  expect  to  be  able  to  talk 
with  other  engineers,  so  I  tried  to  pick  up  courses  in 
electrical,  civil,  and  chemical  engineering  as  well." 

As  Cliff  sees  it,  the  main  intent  of  the  WPI  Plan  is 
to  give  an  engineer  or  scientist  an  understanding  of 
other  areas.  "If  an  engineering  student  isn't  careful,  he 
can  be  immersed  in  just  his  own  discipline.  But  he  also 
has  to  be  able  to  work  with  people,  understand  their 
feelings,  understand  what  drives  people  to  do  what  they 
do,  even  if  only  in  a  basic  sense." 

Cliff's  major  qualifying  project  involved  some  very 
sophisticated  research.  In  conjunction  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  he  and  a  group  of  students  studied  the 
problem  of  containing  failed  turbine  parts  within  a  jet  en- 
gine. If  a  jet  engine  is  operating  and  one  of  its  turbine 
blades  breaks,  for  example,  you  don't  want  the  blade  to 
go  flying  right  through  the  outer  casing  and  into  the 
passenger  cabin  or  the  fuel  tank.  It's  a  serious  problem, 
keeping  the  parts  within  the  engine  or  at  least  shooting 
them  out  the  back  end  where  no  injury  or  damage  will 
result.  Pratt  &  Whitney  approached  WPI  with  this  prob- 
lem, and  Cliff  and  the  group  took  it  on.  They  began  with 
a  literature  search  to  find  out  what  other  people  had 
done.  They  came  up  with  an  idea,  a  method  of  analysis, 
which  they  thought  would  help  move  toward  a  solution. 
"Obviously  we  couldn't  expect  to  solve  it.  These  guys 
had  been  working  on  it  for  fifteen  years,  and  we  weren't 
about  to  knock  it  off  in  three  terms." 

The  students  proposed  a  ballistic  testing  program, 
got  it  approved  by  the  company,  then  built  the  testing 
apparatus  and  tried  to  model  what  actually  happens 
when  a  turbine  blade  hits  a  containment  case.  After  four 


15 


terms  of  work,  they  came  up  with  a  set  of  results  they 
considered  meaningful.  They  went  down  to  Pratt  & 
Whitney  and  presented  their  results  to  the  project 
engineer  and  some  twenty  other  engineers.  "What  was 
so  personally  gratifying,"  Cliff  recalls,  "was  that  they 
were  really  interested  and  thought  we  had  done  a  really 
fine  job.  They  wanted  to  see  this  thing  continued  be- 
cause we  got  significant  results.  We  had  taken  a  dif- 
ferent approach  in  our  ballistic  tests  than  they  had,  and1 
ours  turned  out  to  model  more  closely  what  really  hap- 
pens. The  company  wants  to  have  the  project  con- 
tinue." 

Pratt  &  Whitney  was  happy  with  the  student  group 
Cliff  remembers  the  project  engineer  saying,  "You  know 
you  guys  are  better  than  some  of  the  engineers  we  havi 
down  here.  They  can't  communicate  to  people  what 
their  thoughts  are.  They  can  put  it  down  on  paper,  may 
be.  You  can  get  the  best  results  or  the  best  data,  but  if 
you  can't  interpret  it  and  explain  it  to  people  in  a  mean- 
ingful way,  then  it's  worthless." 

For  his  interactive  project,  Cliff  worked  on  another 
aspect  of  the  same  Worcester  Juvenile  Court  project 
that  Elaine  Sanderson  was  involved  in.  He  and  two 
others  began  a  program  of  "micro-experiences."  "We 
saw  that  the  court  system  obviously  lacked  manpower. 
They  always  need  people.  And  the  probationers  needed 
more  one-to-one  contact  with  people.  We  tried  to  fill 
that  need,  a  one-to-one  relationship  along  with  a  learn- 
ing experience  that  might  be  fun  for  the  kid.  That's 
where  the  term  micro-experience  comes  from.  In  my 
case,  I  tried  to  understand  why  this  one  individual  had 
got  in  trouble.  He  was  a  normal  kid,  kind  of  looking  for 
things  to  do,  and  he  got  messed  up  in  stealing  cars.  I 
worked  with  him  in  auto  mechanics.  He  loved  it  and  I 
did  too." 

Cliff  feels  that  he  attacked  this  problem  from  an  en- 
gineering point  of  view.  He  tried  to  follow  a  logical  se- 
quence in  setting  up  this  test  program,  and  in  evaluating 
its  success.  But  he  didn't  approach  it  in  the  way  a  soci- 
ologist might,  for  instance.  Since  Cliff's  work  on  this 
project,  the  micro-experience  program  has  been  con- 
tinued and  expanded,  with  many  other  students  doing 
project  work  in  this  area. 

Cliff's  competency  exam  involved  an  analysis  of  the 
home  fireplace:  if  you  operate  it  between  October  and 
March  in  addition  to  your  home  heating  system,  does  it 
really  help  your  heating  situation?  That  was  about  the 
entire  problem  statement.  Cliff  had  to  pick  a  house  and 
also  an  approach.  After  some  back-and-forth  contact 
with  the  faculty  member  who  had  written  the  problem, 
Cliff  set  to  work.  He  determined  that  using  the  fireplace 
was  not  beneficial,  that  it  actually  required  more  heat 
from  the  furnace  (and  therefore  more  cost)  to  heat  the 
house.  Cliff  presented  a  few  possible  approaches  to  im- 
prove the  situation.  "It  was  grueling,  working  on  one 
problem  for  two  days  with  a  deadline  coming  up,  but 
definitely  a  valuable  experience.  It  showed  me  that  I 
could  solve  an  engineering  problem. 

"It  was  an  important  part  of  the  whole  experience 
at  WPI,  in  knowing  where  to  go  and  how  to  approach  a 
problem.  I  think  the  Plan  teaches  you  how  to  learn." 

in 


16 


fhe  major  project 


rhe  first  of  the  two  required  projects  is  in  the 
student's  major  field  of  study.  This  project 
requirement  gets  students  deeply  involved  in  their 
ajor  field  in  working,  problem-solving  situations.  It  de- 
Hops,  stretches,  and  tests  students'  competence  and 
)ility  to  put  their  knowledge  and  skills  to  use.  The  pro- 
:t  occupies  at  least  the  equivalent  of  three 
>urses  — seven  weeks  work  at  about  50  hours  a 
eek  —  although  it  is  usually  spread  over  several  terms, 
id  carried  out  at  the  same  time  as  other  work. 

As  a  part  of  the  WPI  Plan,  the  major  project  gives 
jdents  a  real  taste  of  what  work  in  their  fields  will  be 
e,  and  so  it  helps  confirm  or  deny  students'  real  inter- 
t  in  their  majors.  One  of  the  problems  with  traditional 
assroom  and  laboratory  teaching  is  that  it  has  always 
■en  very  different  from  life  in  the  working  world, 
aditional  engineering  instruction,  for  example,  has  had 
ry  little  to  do  with  what  an  engineer  actually  does 
ter  graduation. 

Projects  have  proved  to  be  important  to  students  in 
jtting  jobs,  too.  The  fact  that  a  student  has  had  some 
eal"  experience  in  his  field  is  often  a  significant  factor 
job  interviews.  Bruce  Mazlish  of  M.I.T.,  one  of  the 
5F  visiting  committee  members,  commented  that  "stu- 
nts see  the  (major  project)  as  a  help  in  getting  a  job, 
id  indeed  are  spreading  the  word  that  the  choice  of  a 
fficult  project  is  desirable  in  that  regard." 

The  best  way  of  assessing  the  results  of  Plan  proj- 
ts  is  to  look  at  a  selection  of  recent  projects. 

t  Cushion  Vehicle  Test  Bed:  John  Barnes  designed 
d  fabricated  an  air  cushion  vehicle  to  test  the  effects 
i  performance  and  stability  of  changes  in  the  con- 
uction  of  the  skirt  (rigid  or  flexible),  and  the  configura- 
>n  of  the  interior  air  chamber. 

ectronic  Piano  Tuner:  John  Chipman  and  Warren 
Dence,  after  studying  past  methods  of  tuning  pianos, 
included  that  there  were  serious  defects,  and  they 
:veloped  a  new  electronic  method.  First  John  designed 
special  transducer  to  measure  the  piano  wire's  fre- 
jency  (without  the  background  pickup  a  microphone 
3uld  hear),  then  hooked  it  up  with  a  frequency  counter 
id  multiplier.  Warren  then  designed  a  direct-reading 
Bctronic  instrument  for  the  actual  tuning  procedure.  A 
ference  oscillator  can  be  switched  to  any  note  of  the 
ano,  and  is  compared  with  the  actual  measured  fre- 
jency.  Differences  appear  on  a  meter,  calibrated  in 
jats  per  second,  while  panel  lights  indicate  whether  the 
ring  is  sharp  or  flat.  The  final  instrumented  procedure 
accurate  to  0.008  percent,  and  it  is  simple  to  operate, 
needs  no  technical  expertise,  musical  knowledge,  or 
•ecial  hearing  ability. 


Superconductivity  of  Niobium:  Linder  Gettner  studied 
the  basic  properties  and  theoretical  explanations  of 
superconductivity,  using  a  niobium  core  and  a  liquid 
helium  bath.  Although  she  ran  into  some  trouble  with 
producing  liquid  helium,  she  was  able  to  obtain  data  on 
niobium's  superconductive  properties  — and  she  learned 
about  the  problems  that  face  working  physicists. 

Security  in  Computer  Systems:  With  the  increasing 
presence  of  computers  in  our  lives,  both  in  terms  of 
personal  data  banks  and  money  transfers,  there  is  a 
stronger  need  than  ever  to  make  computer  systems  safe 
from  unauthorized  access.  The  students  in  this  project 
devised  a  secure  operating  system  for  the  DEC-10, 
featuring  levels  of  password  protection  and  an  audit  trail 
of  file  access.  Armed  with  a  knowledge  of  security  pro- 
cedures, an  understanding  of  operating  systems,  and  a 
review  of  current  and  projected  computer  security 
systems,  the  students  concluded  that  a  computer  can  be 
as  secure,  within  human  limits,  as  any  manual  system, 
and  as  safe  as  a  bank  vault. 

Mark  Twain  and  Religion:  After  a  year  spent  reading 
Twain's  complete  writings  and  other  materials,  Stephen 
Page  produced  a  comprehensive  study  of  Mark  Twain's 
religious  attitudes.  "I  never  did  find  out  whether  the  real 
Mark  Twain  was  an  optimist  or  a  pessimist  ...  he  was, 
however,  a  man  torn  between  writing  seriously  or 
humorously  regarding  religion." 


17 


Design  and  Construction  of  Experimental 
Apparatus  to  Study  Oxidation  of  Nuclear  Reactor 
Fuel  Rods:  Students  interested  in  nuclear  reactor 
accidents  involving  loss  of  coolant  found  that  there  was 
insufficient  data  available  on  what  happens  to  the 
zircalloy  coating  on  fuel  rods  in  the  critical  temperature 
range  of  1600-2800  F.  Therefore  they  designed  and  built 
their  own  research  apparatus  to  develop  the  necessary 
data,  studying  both  the  inside  and  the  outside  of  the 
tubing.  This  project  was  funded  by  New  England  Elec- 
tric, Yankee  Atomic  Electric,  and  the  Electric  Power 
Research  Institute. 

Motion  in  Mammals:  In  cooperation  with  a  local 
pharmaceutical  manufacturer,  Kurt  Lutgens  did  a  study 
of  motion  in  mammals  in  his  junior  year.  He  dissected  a 
dog  skeleton  and  studied  the  muscle  patterns  and  the 
directions  of  motion  by  applying  the  laws  of  mechanics. 
He  studied  reflexes  in  relation  to  short-term  anesthesia  in 
dogs  and  sheep,  and  he  constructed  an  apparatus  for 
obtaining  electroencephalograms  from  dogs  and  sheep. 
In  making  his  final  report,  he  made  use  of  videotape. 
The  results  of  this  project  were  presented  at  a  scientific 
meeting  in  Sweden  and  have  been  published  in  this 
country. 


m 


/lichael  Kallet— 

7  neve/*  c//c/  get  a  look  at 
quid  helium" 

or  Michael  Kallet,  the  WPI  Plan  offered  the  freedom  to 
iirsue  his  interests  in  science— first  chemistry,  then 
leoretical  physics— without  having  to  follow  a  rigid  pre- 
stermined  curriculum.  Beginning  with  his  first  year,  he 
3gan  to  study  the  history  of  science,  and  later  worked 
p  his  sufficiency  requirement  in  the  area.  He  examined 
'hy  science  develops,  particularly  the  interaction  be- 
veen  experiment  and  theory.  How  does  a  theorist  come 
o  with  a  theory?  Does  he  take  it  from  experiment,  or 
Des  he  pull  it  out  of  the  blue?  Mike  concluded  that 
)me  observation  and  experiment  was  necessary. 


Although  two  projects  are  required  for  graduation, 
most  students  participate  in  other,  "non-qualifying"  proj- 
ects as  a  part  of  their  program.  Mike  has  carried  this  one 
step  further  by  working  for  a  year  and  a  half  on  a  proj- 
ect without  registering  for  credit.  In  this  investigation  of 
the  dispersion  of  a  quantum  wave  packet,  he  has  made 
use  of  WPI's  computer  center  "to  solve  an  equation  and 
graph  the  results  because  I  couldn't  do  it  myself.  It 
would  have  taken  years."  Since  Mike  had  learned 
BASIC  and  FORTRAN  in  high  school,  and  worked  two 
summers  programming  for  an  engineering  firm,  he  only 
took  one  computer  course  at  WPI— and  that  to  learn  a 
few  refinements  of  a  language  he  was  already  familiar 
with. 

As  a  theoretical  physicist,  Mike  Kallet  may  well  end 
up  teaching,  and  he's  had  experience  here  too.  For  his 
interactive  project,  he  helped  physics  professor  Van 
Bluemel  redesign  the  quantum  mechanics  course  and 
put  together  videotapes.  "I  enjoy  teaching,  but  this  proj- 
ect showed  me  that  it's  not  all  fun.  There's  a  lot  of  pre- 
paration involved,  but  you  get  a  lot  of  satisfaction  when 
you  explain  to  someone  how  something  works  and  he 
finally  understands  it." 

Mike  spent  nearly  a  year  on  his  major  project,  deal- 
ing with  liquid  helium  and  its  properties  of  superfluidity. 
It  seems  that  liquid  helium  never  really  freezes  unless  it's 
put  under  pressure.  If  it's  brought  down  to  about  -270X, 
it  becomes  almost  a  frictionless  fluid:  it  flows  with 
zero  viscosity,  and  heat  travels  through  it  very  quickly. 
Mike  set  out  to  do  a  theoretical  study,  but  decided  some 
experimentation  was  in  order. 

"My  first  goal  was  to  see  if  I  could  just  look  at 
liquid  helium.  It's  so  cold  that  it's  difficult  to  get  any 
accumulation  of  it  .  .  .  like  putting  water  into  a  pan 
that's  400°  or  500°  and  trying  to  find  a  pool  of  liquid. 
We  used  a  helium  dewar,  a  double  insulated  glass  tube 
into  which  you  pour  liquid  nitrogen  to  help  keep  it  cold. 
But  it  leaked  ...  a  very  small  leak,  but  we  were  unable 
to  find  it  and  plug  it,  and  I  never  did  get  a  look  at  the 
stuff." 

During  Mike's  second  year  at  WPI,  he  spent  the 
two  spring  terms  in  Europe.  He  studied  at  the  City  Uni- 
versity of  London  under  WPI's  exchange  program, 
taking  physics  courses  as  well  as  a  history  of  finance  in 
London.  "I'm  happy  I  went.  If  I  hadn't,  I  probably  would 
have  graduated  in  three  years,  but  going  to  London  was 
really  fantastic,  and  so  was  seeing  the  rest  of  Europe 
afterwards.  I  met  a  lot  of  people  with  different  values 
and  different  ideas,  learned  that  most  people  are  the 
same— just  a  little  bit  different  in  little  ways." 

While  applying  to  graduate  school,  Mike  found  that 
some  schools  were  skeptical  of  WPI's  grading  system, 
which  can't  be  realistically  converted  to  the  standard  nu- 
merical average.  Others,  including  Yale,  where  he  is  pre- 
sently enrolled,  liked  the  system  and  were  enthusiastic 
about  the  sort  of  preparation  that  the  Plan  provides. 

WPI 


19 


The  interactive  project: 

bridging  the  gap  between  technology 

and  people 


Two  projects  are  required  under  the  WPI  Plan.  The 
second  may  be  of  the  same  sort  as  the  student's  major 
project,  but  most  students  choose  an  altogether  different 
type  of  project.  Known  as  an  IQP  (for  Interactive 
Qualifying  Project),  this  project  allows  students  to  bring 
their  technical  backgrounds  and  methods  to  focus  on 
problems  of  society.  In  the  IQP  we  find  not  only  the 
mathematical  language  of  science  and  engineering,  but 
an  active  involvement  with  moral  and  ethical  judgments, 
social  needs,  value  systems,  and  cultural  considerations. 

Before  discussing  some  of  the  unique  aspects  of  the 
IQP,  let's  first  look  at  some  actual  projects. 

Miniparks:  Neal  Wright  and  John  Aubin  collaborated 
on  a  proposal  for  a  series  of  "miniparks"  to  be  located 
throughout  Holden,  Massachusetts.  The  two  students  in- 
terviewed local  residents  to  determine  public  opinion, 
then  went  ahead  with  the  cooperation  of  the  Holden 
Planning  Board  and  selectmen  to  produce,  in  the  span 
of  a  year,  the  final  design  and  report  on  the  minipark 
network. 

Problems  Faced  by  New  Employees:  Richard  Turner 
spent  seven  weeks  on  a  project  at  the  Ford  of  Britain 
engine  plant,  as  a  participant  in  the  WPI-City  University 
of  London  exchange  program.  He  studied  the  four-to- 
five  week  induction  period  that  new  employees  must  go 
through,  and  how  it  affected  their  attitudes.  The 
Dagenham  plant  which  Turner  studied  is  the  largest 
factory  under  one  roof  in  all  of  Europe,  producing  6,000 
engines  a  day.  Turner  determined  that  workers  found 
their  jobs  repetitive  and  boring,  while  management 
exerted  significant  pressure  on  the  assembly  line  to  meet 
production  requirements  and  cut  costs.  Turner  con- 
cluded that  an  education  program  for  management  at  a 
national  level  was  needed,  and  that  a  uniform  induction 
period  for  new  employees  should  be  considered. 

Energy  Conversion  to  Direct  Coal  Combustion:  Stu- 
dents at  the  Washington  Project  Center  explored  the 
feasibility  of  conversion  to  coal  for  large  industrial  and 
utility  installations  currently  using  oil  or  natural  gas.  The 
students  drew  up  a  number  of  policy,  legislative,  and 
research  recommendations.  The  group  recommended 
investment  in  new  mining  methods  and  modernization  of 
coal  transportation  systems,  particularly  eastern 
railroads. 


Regional  Systems  Modeling:  This  long-term  project 
tried  to  formulate  a  mathematical  model  to  describe  and 
predict  urban  life  in  the  metropolitan  Worcester  area. 
The  students  tried  using  the  urban  dynamics  model  of 
Jay  Forrester  (publicized  in  recent  years  by  the  Club  of 
Rome),  but  found  it  difficult  to  apply  to  a  specific  urban 
system.  When  they  tried  to  use  it  with  historical  data, 
they  found  that  most  of  the  information  they  needed 
was  unavailable  or  very  difficult  to  acquire. 

Where  Do  You  Build  a  Power  Plant?  To  meet  grow- 
ing energy  demands,  new  power  plants  will  have  to  be   J 
built  in  this  country.  Four  WPI  students  at  the  Washing- 
ton Project  Center  recently  dealt  with  the  factors  in- 
volved in  determining  sites  for  oil  refineries  and  electrical 
power  plants.  They  studied  and  evaluated  engineering 
constraints,  environmental  problems,  economic  con- 
siderations, legal  questions,  and  sociocultural  ef- 
fects—background knowledge  necessary  for  an 
intelligent  analysis  of  legislation  affecting  the  issue. 

The  Protection  of  Wetlands:  The  Wetlands  Protection  ) 
Act  of  1972  gave  local  conservation  commissions  the 
authority  and  responsibility  to  impose  conditions  on  the 
use  of  wetlands  to  minimize  harmful  effects.  WPI  stu- 
dents discovered,  though,  that  local  conservation  com- 
missions  are  generally  understaffed,  with  little  money  to  I 
spend.  The  group  therefore  established  an  ongoing 
operation,  the  WPI  Wetlands  Protection  Program,  in 
which  interested  undergraduates  can  serve  as  technical   j 
resource  people  to  these  local  groups,  carrying  out 
impact  studies  and  other  types  of  research,  giving 
valuable  advice  to  the  commissions. 

Occupational  Health  Hazards:  The  costs  involved  in 
industrial  health  hazards  — accidents  and  occupational 
diseases  — are  currently  borne  by  society  in  general.  Two 
WPI  students  studied  how  to  make  such  costs  charge- 
able to  the  industry.  In  this  way,  the  cost  of  occupation-! 
al  disease  becomes  a  competitive  factor  in  the  cost  of 
the  final  product.  The  students  are  hopeful  that,  if  such  I 
a  system  could  be  instituted,  marketplace  competition 
will  become  a  factor  in  reducing  the  incidence  of  such 
hazards. 


20 


% 


1 


Who  Gets  Treatment?  Bruce  Croft  studied  the  values 
involved  in  deciding  what  patients  should  get  priority  in 
access  to  rare  therapy  equipment,  such  as  kidney  dialy- 
sis machines.  He  mailed  a  questionnaire  to  500  indivi- 
duals to  test  his  hypothesis  that  people  from  lower-in- 
come brackets  will  prefer  a  decision  process  based  on 
randomization  (such  as  by  a  lottery)  while  higher-income 
people  will  opt  for  a  system  that  evaluates  the  patients 
"social  worth." 


Coordination  and  Support 
of  IQPs 

Because  of  the  unique  and  different  nature  of  interactive 
projects,  a  totally  different  kind  of  faculty  support  has 
been  developed.  It  seems  the  rule  rather  than  the  excep- 
tion that  for  IQPs  there  will  be  a  team  of  faculty  advisors 
from  different  disciplines.  Much  of  the  work  is  aided  by 
a  new  academic  nondepartment  called  the  Division  of 
Interdisciplinary  Affairs,  with  a  rotating  staff  representing 
a  variety  of  departments. 

These  projects  call  upon  the  faculty  for  a  somewhat 
different  outlook,  too,  and  for  broader  horizons  than  are 
often  found  among  engineering  professors.  To  assist 
WPI  faculty  in  these  areas,  two  separate  summer  pro- 
grams have  been  run,  aimed  specifically  at  developing 
IQP  ideas  and  introducing  some  of  the  methodologies 
and  concepts  of  the  social  sciences. 


WPI  Washington  Project 
Center 


Some  of  the    most  effective  IQPs  have  taken  place  at 
the  Washington  Project  Center,  in  conjunction  with  the 
following  organizations: 

Department  of  Commerce 

Department  of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare 

Department  of  Housing  and  Urban  Development 

Department  of  Transportation 

Environmental  Protection  Agency 

National  Science  Foundation 

Council  for  Environmental  Quality 

Consumer  Protection  Safety  Commission 

New  England  Congressional  Caucus 

National  Association  of  Manufacturers 

Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronic  Engineers 

District  of  Columbia  Civil  Defense 

Public  Technology,  Inc. 

At  the  Center,  20  students  at  a  time  spend  seven 
weeks  living  in  Washington  and  working  on  their 
projects.  Two  WPI  faculty  members  direct  the  Center's 
work  and  advise  students  as  they  carry  out  their 
projects. 

"It's  a  real  experience  calling  up  some  of  these 
agencies,"  commented  Bryan  Young  last  year  while  he 
was  working  on  a  Washington  project.  "Sometimes  you 
find  the  right  person  who  can  help  you  on  the  first  try. 
Then  again,  you  can  spend  half  a  day  getting  calls  trans- 
ferred from  one  office  to  another." 


22 


IBBBBBl 

IBBBBBl 

BIBBB1BI 

m      *       m      m\  Jfi§ 


Washington  is  accustomed  to  college  student  "in- 
:rns,"  but  the  project  work  of  WPI  students  is  not  the 
pical  internship  in  which  a  student  works  along  with 
jmeone  in  an  agency.  "We  outline  our  project  before 
e  leave  Worcester,  we  know  what  our  objectives  are, 
id  when  we  get  here  we're  ready  to  do  a  specific  job," 
lid  another  student.  "With  only  seven  weeks  here,  we 
jve  to  be  organized." 

Looking  at  a  couple  of  projects  gives  an  idea  of  the 
lallenges  that  the  Washington  Center  provides.  Bryan 
id  John  Manning  worked  at  the  IEEE  office,  helping 
e  society  get  factual  information  needed  to  formulate 
e  IEEE  energy  policy.  "We've  been  looking  into  strip 
ining  and  gasoline  taxation  problems  particularly,"  said 
)hn.  "Washington  just  has  to  be  about  the -best  place 
the  world  to  find  information.  Every  agency  has  a 
>od  library.  That's  part  of  the  problem,  though— just 
arning  which  library  to  try!" 

In  another  project,  Tom  Vaughn  and  Dan  Garfi  were 
the  National  Science  Foundation.  "We're  trying  to 
;velop  a  better  way  to  transfer  the  information  con- 
ined  in  the  final  reports  of  NSF-sponsored  research 
ojects  to  the  agencies  which  can  effectively  use  this 
formation.  It  sounds  easy,  but  it's  a  real  problem." 

About  the  Washington  Project  Center,  and  the  stu- 
?nts  who  work  there,  social  scientist  David  Riesman  (of 
ie  NSF  committee  which  visited  WPI  during  the  first 
iree  years  of  Plan  implementation)  has  written:  "Some 
f  the  project  reports  I  have  seen  are  admirable.  They 
;tablish  what  I  have  long  believed:  namely,  that  able 
idergraduates  can  do  as  serious  work  as  most 
aduate  students,  and  as  inventive."  Riesman  also  felt 
ie  Center  had  other  important  lessons  for  WPI  stu- 
snts:  "If  one  considers  how  provincial  are  the  origins  of 
/PI  students,  not  only  in  terms  of  social  background 
Jt  also  in  geographic  terms,  the  Washington  sojourn 
leans  as  much  to  them  as,  for  example,  the  Stanford 
ear  in  Tokyo  means  to  Stanford  undergraduates  — it 
iay  be  at  least  as  much  of  a  culture  shock." 


A  group  of  Washington  Project  Center  students  were 
asked  what  was  the  single  most  important  thing  they 
had  learned  in  Washington.  Their  final  consensus  was 
that  there  appears  to  be  no  ultimate  truth  when  you  are 
searching  for  information.  Every  bit  of  collected  informa- 
tion seems  to  contain  some  built-in  bias.  "I'll  probably 
never  again  take  for  granted  any  collected  data,  just 
because  it's  published,"  said  one  student.  "I'm  going  to 
try  to  find  the  same  data  from  another  source  just  to 
check  it." 


The  IQP  Problem 

Many  people  have  hailed  the  IQP  as  the  most  important, 
or  most  unique,  part  of  the  WPI  Plan.  Yet  it  has  also 
posed  some  of  the  thorniest  problems  in  carrying  out  the 
concept.  There  is  the  problem  of  how  to  maintain 
academic  standards  (quality  control)  when  a  project 
ranges  far  afield  of  a  faculty  advisor's  professional 
expertise.  There  is  the  problem  of  how  that  faculty 
member  can  best— or  even  adequately,  sometimes  — 
advise  on  such  a  project.  How  much  technology  content 
should  there  be?  How  much  social  reference?  How  do 
you  compare  problem-solving  projects  with  those  whose 
main  emphasis  is  a  learning  experience,  such  as 
teaching?  When  is  an  IQP  really  a  major-field  project? 
This  brief  article  will  not  suggest  answers  to  these 
questions,  but  they  are  considered  every  day.  In  fact, 
each  project  has  to  be  treated  on  an  individual  basis, 
and  as  the  WPI  faculty  gains  increasing  experience  with 
these  projects  the  problems  begin  to  dissolve. 


23 


David  Lyons— 

"Classwork  is  fine,  but  when 
you  have  to  sit  down  and  do  it 
yourself  and  make  it  work.  .  . 
when  your  grade  stands  or 
falls  on  this  one  program  — 
that's  practical  experience1/' 

David  Lyons  spent  most  of  his  fourth  year  at  WPI  goof- 
ing off.  So  after  that  year  "majoring  in  girls,"  he  needed 
an  extra  year  to  complete  his  degree  requirements  in 
computer  science.  And  he  graduated  with  honors. 

David  entered  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineering  ma- 
jor, switching  to  computer  science  partway  through  his 
first  year.  He  began  work  on  his  major  project  during  the 
summer  after  his  third  year.  He  ended  up  spending  a 
year  and  a  half  on  it,  designing  a  computer  program  to 
keep  track  of  all  the  projects  currently  going  and  others 
available  at  WPI  for  students.  The  periodically  printed 
listings  available  at  the  time  were  so  hopelessly  out  of 
date  by  the  time  they  appeared  that  there  was  a  real 
need  for  David  s  project.  The  original  intent  of  the  proj- 
ect was  to  have  two  or  three  students  work  on  it,  but 
David  ended  up  being  the  only  student  involved. 

During  his  fourth  year,  David  worked  on  his  suffi- 
ciency in  philosophy,  particularly  the  philosophy  of  reli- 
gion. At  the  end,  instead  of  a  final  paper,  David  and  ten 
others  participated  in  a  term-long  seminar  on  the  phil- 
osophies of  religion.  Each  week,  two  students  presented 
a  paper  and  led  an  hour-and-a-half  discussion  on  differ- 
ent aspects  of  religion. 

David  found  the  flexibility  of  the  WPI  Plan  very 
helpful,  and  very  much  in  accord  with  the  way  he  works. 
"I  learned  that  unless  I'm  pushed  I  don't  do  much.  I  find 
I  can't  turn  myself  on  and  off  to  do  a  job.  I  can't  leave 
my  work  at  the  office,  so  to  speak.  I  take  it  home  and 
think  about  it.  It  kind  of  bothers  some  people  at  times, 
because  they  see  me  apparently  goofing  off  and  think  I 
never  do  any  work,  when  actually  I'm  sitting  there  think- 
ing about  a  problem." 

David  learned  some  lessons  about  the  relationship 
between  classroom  work  on  the  one  hand,  and  projects 
and  work  experience  on  the  other.  "I  found  how  hard  it 
is  to  get  a  project  started.  And  once  you  get  it  started, 
it's  really  hard  to  stop  it.  That  was  a  problem  with  my 
major  project  — there  was  always  a  little  bit  more  to  do 
to  make  it  a  lot  better,  a  little  more  to  add  here  and 
there.  It  just  kept  going  on  and  on.  But  at  some  point 
you  have  to  draw  the  line  and  say  that  it's  done. 

"It's  really  helped  in  the  job  market  that  we  have 
these  projects.  Companies  feel  they're  getting  somebody 
with  practical  experience,  someone  who  knows  what  it's 
like  to  do  some  real  work.  Classwork  programming  is 
fine,  but  when  you  have  to  sit  down  and  design  a  sys- 
tem and  program  it  yourself  and  have  it  work.  .  .  when 
you're  doing  that  for  your  grade,  and  it  stands  or  falls  on 
this  one  program  —  that's  practical  experience!" 


Lyons'  second  project  involved  writing  a  user's 
manual  aimed  at  people  who  know  nothing  about  com- 
puters. His  50-page  book  was  meant  to  be  a  sort  of  texi 
book  to  familiarize  a  person  with  computers  by  using  a 
program  they  would  find  helpful  and  which  would  over- 
come a  layman's  fear  of  using  computers  because 
they're  so  big  and  complicated.  He  wrote  a  special  pro- 
gram to  produce  and  store  form  letters,  with  the  ability 
to  choose  paragraphs  at  will,  insert  names  and  other 
types  of  information,  change  wording  around,  and  so 
forth.  The  idea  was  that  no  matter  how  well  a  form  let- 
ter is  written,  there  will  always  be  occasions  when  it 
doesn't  fit.  David's  program  allows  all  the  necessary 
manipulation,  and  it  allows  the  user  to  store  a  copy  of 
the  finished  letter  for  future  reference. 

David  found  the  project  very  difficult.  The  problem 
of  communicating  with  people  who  don't  have  the  same 
technical  background  was,  in  fact,  the  central  problem  ir 
writing  the  user's  manual. 

David's  competency  exam  (he  was  able  to  choose 
from  three  different  problems)  involved  the  design  of  an 
operating  system  for  a  computer.  "An  operating  system 
is  the  programming  of  the  computer  that  keeps  track  of 
all  the  users  and  decides  which  programs  are  going  to 
be  able  to  be  run,  takes  care  of  the  accounting,  makes 
sure  you're  authorized  to  use  the  computer,  and  does 
the  neat  little  programming  things  for  you.  I  was  to  de- 
sign this  for  a  specific  computer,  which  I  could  choose: 
it  could  be  imaginary,  and  it  had  to  be  reasonable.  It 
couldn't  be  a  computer  that  was  so  vast  and  complex 
that  it  didn't  need  any  programming.  It  had  to  be  a  mini- 
computer." 

The  way  David  handled  the  exam  also  illustrated  the 
Plan's  relation  to  real  life.  "At  noon  on  Wednesday,  I 
picked  up  the  question.  By  four  o'clock  that  day  we  had 
to  submit  a  first  draft  of  the  report.  Four  o'clock  came 
around,  I  submitted  my  report,  and  I  said  To  heck  with 
this!'  I  found  myself  in  a  party  that  night  and  even  got  a 
little  sloshed.  What  a  great  beginning!  Thursday  I  didn't 
really  do  a  lot  of  work  on  the  problem  either.  I  thought 
about  everything,  and  I  kept  sorting  things  out  in  my 
mind.  Friday  morning,  though,  I  got  up  and  figured  I 
knew  about  how  I  wanted  my  solution  to  be,  so  I  just 
wrote  the  whole  thing  down  and  handed  it  right  in. 

"I  was  the  first  one  of  the  four  students  taking  the 
exam  to  hand  in  the  report,  and  I  had  the  chance  to  pick 
the  time  on  Monday  for  my  oral  exam.  I  picked  the  last 
one.  My  advisor  asked  why  I  did  that,  why  didn't  I  go 
first  and  get  it  over  with?  I  said  I  didn't  like  to  get  up 
early  in  the  morning.  So  I  slept  late  Monday,  then  re- 
ported in  the  afternoon  for  the  exam.  I  was  amazed. 
Some  of  the  questions  I  got  were  totally  theoretical: 
'Why  did  you  do  it  this  way?'  and  so  forth.  A  lot  of  my 
answers  were  that  the  point  they  raised  wasn't  a  part  of 
the  problem,  so  I  didn't  consider  it.  And  that  was  a  to- 
tally acceptable  answer  because  it  was  completely  cor- 
rect." David  got  the  first  Distinction  the  department  had 
ever  awarded  for  a  competency  examination. 

Except  for  a  few  small  wrinkles  in  his  interactive 
project,  David  finished  all  his  work  in  March  of  his  fifth 
year.  Although  he  didn't  graduate  until  June,  he  began 
work  immediately  at  Data  General  Corporation,  in  a 
small  "think  tank"  research  and  development  section. 

UIPI 


24 


.aying  it  on  the  line: 
he  competency  exam 


rhree  or  four  years  of  work,  and  the  question 
of  whether  or  not  you  graduate  from  WPI 
comes  down  to  one  examination,  designed  to  test 
our  "competence"  as  a  scientist  or  engineer  or  what- 
ver.  Is  this  fair?  Is  it  workable? 

David  Riesman:  "Can  one  indeed  measure 
ompetence  of  an  engineer  over  less  than  a  lifetime? 
'ne  can  measure  various  components:  articu/ateness, 
bility  to  use  the  resources  of  the  institution. on  one's 
wn.  Yet  the  ability  to  work  under  pressure  that  such  an 
xamination  requires,  and  to  know  how  to  pace  oneself 
'ithout  becoming  prematurely  exhausted,  is  not  a  task 
3  which  WPI  students,  or  for  that  matter  most  academ- 
:ians,  are  accustomed.  It  is  only  people  in  practical  life 
'ho  have  to  work  this  way!" 

To  many  people's  way  of  thinking,  the  competency 
xam  has  been  one  of  the  thorniest  parts  of  the  Plan  to 
ut  into  practice.  Difficulties  with  other  areas— the 
olume  of  projects,  adapting  to  7-week  terms,  increased 
/orkloads— all  boiled  down  ultimately  to  questions  of 
xjistics,  support,  and  available  resources.  But  the  com- 
etency  presented  a  basic  philosophical  problem:  was  it 
neasuring  "competence,"  whatever  that  was,  or  was  it 
leasuring  the  comprehensiveness  of  a  student's 
nowledge  of  a  given  field? 

This  confusion  was  apparent  from  the  start.  The 
locument  which  served  as  the  model  for  the  Plan,  "The 
uture  of  Two  Towers,  Part  IV,"  called  the  exam  a 
omprehensive,  although  it  talked  about  measuring  com- 
•etence.  The  first  Plan  catalog  carried  on  this  nomencla- 
jre,  though  subsequent  catalogs  changed  the  term  to 
ompetency  exam. 


As  a  result,  different  departments  interpreted  this 
degree  requirement  in  very  different  ways.  Another  NSF 
observer,  Eugene  Reed  of  Bell  Labs,  put  it  this  way: 
"There  is  a  lack  of  consensus  between  and  within 
departments  whether  the  exam  should  test  competency 
or  comprehensiveness.  Should  it  deal  with  fundamentals 
or  methodology?"  Some  departments  began  to  require  a 
"pre-competency"  exam  which  was,  in  fact,  a 
comprehensive.  It  gradually  became  clear  to  most 
faculty,  though,  that  this  situation  could  not  be  allowed 
to  stand.  As  Bruce  Mazlish  put  it,  "If  the  competency 
exam  can  be  turned  into  a  measure  of  the  student's 
professional  comprehension  of  a  particular  field,  it  begins 
to  subvert  the  general  intention  of  the  Plan.  Students 
will  learn  very  quickly  that  they  must  take  specific 
courses  in  order  to  pass." 

A  general  consensus  does  seem  to  have  been 
reached  among  Plan  administrators  and  guiding  faculty 
committees  that  the  competency  exam  should  be 
problem-oriented,  that  it  should  test  the  student's  ability 
to  attack  (and  perhaps  solve)  such  a  problem  within  his 
major  field  of  study.  Although  a  student  obviously 
requires  a  vast  reservoir  of  knowledge  and  data  in  his 
field,  what  the  competency  exam  tries  to  assess  is  the 
student's  ability  to  use  that  knowledge,  and  his 
understanding  of  what  he  is  doing. 


25 


Once  this  basic  philosophical  question  was  settled, 
though,  there  was  still  the  problem  of  designing  and 
giving  the  exams.  An  illuminating  insight  into  these 
difficulties  was  recently  written  by  Jo  Ann  Manfra, 
Thomas  Shannon,  and  John  Zeugner  of  the  humanities 
department,  concerning  the  development  of  a 
competency  exam  for  students  majoring  in  humanities 
and  technology  (history): 

"There  was  an  antipathy  toward  operational 
definitions  of  the  historian.  Consequently,  the  first  H/T 
major  faced  a  kind  of  competency  examination  that  was 
offhandedly  drawn  up  and  reflected  the  historians'  own 
professional  training  — a  mini-Ph.D.  examination.  The 
student  failed,  naturally  enough,  since  he  had  not  really 
been  given  comprehensive  exposure  to  four  fields  of 
history,  and  since  the  department  discovered 
competency  and  comprehensiveness  were  not 
equivalent. 

"The  student's  anguish  and  the  department's 
embarrassment  that  its  first  student  major  would  not 
graduate  spurred  a  rethinking  of  how  to  measure 
competence  in  the  study  of  history.  The 
science/engineering  side  of  the  college  was  formulating 
competency  measures  in  terms  of  problems  to  be  solved 
within  time  constraints.  That  approach  was  adopted  in  a 
rather  haphazard  fashion  by  the  history  department. 


"The  student  was  reexamined  and  this  time  he  was 
asked  to  identify  a  contemporary  problem  and  explain,  i 
Toynbee's  phrase,  'How  this  came  out  of  that,'  to  dis- 
cuss how  the  past  shaped  the  present  dilemma.  The  stu 
dent  had  deliberately  been  given  the  choice  of  the  prob- 
lem. The  department  assumed  he  would  fix  on  an  area 
of  his  own  strength  and  avoid  the  embarrassing  questioi 
of  comprehensiveness.  Department  experts  in  black 
history,  urban  affairs,  and  foreign  policy  were  standing 
by,  expecting  civil  rights  or  the  plight  of  the  inner  city, 
or  the  war  in  Viet  Nam  as  logical  problems  for  historical 
explanation. 

"Alas,  the  student  selected  as  his  problem,  Marcuse's 
postulate  of  sexual  desublimation  in  advanced  techno- 
logical societies.  It  was  a  deft  selection,  for  he  was  able 
to  introduce  personal  experience  as  well  as  historical 
knowledge.  The  kinds  of  sources  the  student  could 
summon,  the  kinds  of  points  he  made,  the  terminology 
he  used,  the  dialectic  he  employed,  the  bibliography  he 
cited  in  his  long  essay,  the  department  soon  discovered 
it  could  not  adequately  evaluate.  His  competence  was 
different  from  ours.  Naturally,  he  passed.  And  the  prob- 
lem of  measuring  or  even  identifying  historical  compe- 
tency was  moved  a  notch  up  on  the  department's 
priority  list." 

In  practice,  the  usual  competency  exam  is  in  two 
parts.  The  first  is  a  problem  given  to  (or  selected  by)  the 
student,  who  then  has  a  certain  period  of  time,  which  is 
typically  two  to  three  days,  to  investigate  solutions,  ap- 
proaches, lines  of  attack,  and  submit  a  written  report 
about  what  has  been  done.  Then,  in  the  second  part  of 
the  exam,  the  student  faces  a  panel  of  faculty  members 
(sometimes  including  off-campus  experts,  where  their 
special  knowledge  is  needed)  to  discuss  — and  de- 
fend—what he  did  and  didn't  do.  After  this  oral  exam, 
the  examining  faculty  meet  to  discuss  the  student's  per- 
formance and  grade  it. 

Normally,  a  student  is  not  allowed  to  schedule  a  com- 
petency exam  before  completing  at  least  12  units  of 
course  and  project  work  (the  equivalent  of  three  years' 
study). 


26 


)avid  Demers  — 

Xnswering  the  siren  call 

ike  a  lot  of  8-year-olds,  Dave  Demers  wanted  to  be  a 
reman.  But  for  him  it  wasn't  just  a  passing  childhood 
hase.  By  the  time  he  was  in  high  school,  in  Lunenburg, 
lassachusetts,  he  was  a  volunteer  firefighter  for  the 
)wn.  And  he  still  is. 

But  Dave  wanted  to  do  more.  He  liked  his  high 
;hool  science  courses,  and  he  decided  to  go  into  an  en- 
ineering  aspect  of  firefighting.  He  applied  to  M.I.T.  and 
(/PI  and  was  accepted  at  both  schools.  "It  was  a  ques- 
on  of  atmosphere,  and  I  liked  the  atmosphere  here  at 
\J?\  much  better  ...  a  small  school  rather  than  a  fac- 
)ry.  And  I  also  prefer  the  practical  approach  rather  than 
le  theoretical." 

At  WPI  Dave  started  to  map  out  a  unique  program 
i  fire  protection  engineering.  He  talked  with  a  practicing 
re  protection  engineer  and  a  nearby  insurance  corn- 
any,  and  they  stressed  the  importance  of  a  general 
ackground  of  engineering  basics  with  slight  concentra- 
on  in  one  field.  Dave  decided  to  study  mechanical  engi- 
eering  as  his  main  area,  but  his  program  grew  to  in- 
ude  chemical  engineering,  civil  engineering,  and  electri- 
al  engineering  courses  as  well  as  some  nuclear  en- 
ineering  work  with  WPI's  on-campus  nuclear  reactor. 

Because  he  was  so  sure  of  the  direction  he  was  go- 
ig  in,  Dave  used  every  opportunity  he  got  to  expand  his 
nowledge  of  fire.  In  a  law  course,  he  did  a  paper  on  the 
jgal  aspects  of  arson.  For  a  hydraulics  course  paper,  he 
/rote  about  fire  pumps.  For  history,  he  wrote  about  the 
ocial  impact  of  steam  fire  engines  in  the  nineteenth 
entury.  And  for  his  humanities  sufficiency,  he  did  his  fi- 
al  paper  on  the  "disaster  theory"  of  gettings  things 
one— a  theory  which  states  that  to  accomplish  any  ma- 
>r  social  change  a  disaster  is  needed.  Using  the  Boston 
re  of  1872  as  a  case  study,  he  showed  how  this  af- 
3Cted  fire  protection  measures  afterwards. 

Dave's  major  qualifying  project  dealt  with  fire 
rotection  in  buildings.  He  developed  the  basics  for  an 
lformation-retrieval  system  for  fire  protection,  and  then 
/orked  on  a  systems  approach  to  fire  safety  in 
uildings,  making  use  of  the  fault-tree  method  of  analy- 
s,  originally  developed  by  Bell  Labs  for  missile  safety, 
le  didn't  know  it  at  the  time,  but  the  General  Services 
administration  of  the  federal  government  had  an  entire 
taff  working  on  the  very  same  subject.  The  government 
ssults  closely  paralleled  Dave's  own— they  were  more 
ophisticated,  but  then  they'd  spent  a  lot  more  time  at 
,  too.  The  final  part  of  Dave's  major  project  involved 
working  with  a  fire  protection  consulting  firm. 

As  his  interactive  project,  Dave  studied  the  Worces- 
3r  Fire  Prevention  Bureau.  He  started  with  the  history  of 
ie  organization,  going  back  through  available  records, 
nen  began  going  along  on  their  inspections  and  on  fire 
ivestigations.  He  went  to  court  with  the  Bureau  many 
mes,  on  prosecutions  for  arson  and  on  abatement  or- 
ers.  He  concluded  his  project  with  an  analysis  of  what 
ney  were  doing  and  recommendations  for  improving 
neir  procedures.  Some  of  these  recommendations  have 
Iready  been  put  into  practice. 


Even  Dave's  summers  contributed  to  his  knowledge 
of  fire  protection.  He  spent  two  summers  working  as  a 
construction  laborer,  which  gave  him  some  practical 
insight  into  how  buildings  are  put  up.  (This  knowledge 
has  certainly  come  in  handy,  because  as  this  account  is 
being  written  Dave  is  supervising  the  installation  and 
engineering  of  the  sprinkler  system  in  the  John  Hancock 
Tower,  the  tallest  building  in  Boston.)  Another  summer, 
Dave  worked  for  a  fire  extinguisher  service  company, 
and  another  he  was  a  firefighter  with  the  U.S.  Forest 
Service  in  California,  jumping  out  of  helicopters  and 
chasing  forest  fires  all  over  the  state. 

WPI  doesn't  have  a  fire-protection  department,  even 
though  Dave  built  his  program  in  the  field.  To  measure 
his  competency,  a  panel  of  two  faculty  members  and  a 
consulting  fire-protection  engineer  gave  Dave  the 
following  problem:  working  from  a  set  of  architectural 
plans,  figure  out  how  to  improve  the  fire  safety  of  a  pro- 
posed high-rise  home  for  the  aged,  and  put  the  recom- 
mendations into  a  letter  to  the  builder. 

After  passing  his  competency  exam,  Dave  was  all 
set  to  go  to  work  for  Mobil  Oil  in  Illinois,  working  on  fire 
protection  for  the  petroleum  industry.  And  then,  out  of 
the  blue,  the  consultant  who  had  been  on  Dave's  com- 
petency board,  and  with  whom  Dave  had  worked 
slightly  on  one  of  his  projects,  offered  him  a  job.  Dave  is 
now  working  for  him,  "because  there's  a  lot  more  to  fire 
protection  that  interests  me  than  just  petroleum  prob- 
lems. And  I'm  glad  to  be  able  to  stay  in  New  England." 


27 


The  sufficiency:  an  appreciation  for 
human  values 


In  most  engineering/science  colleges,  the  humanities 
are  traditionally  — if  not  openly  — regarded 
as  orphans  or  stepchildren.  They  constitute  a  small 
fraction  of  the  courses  required  for  graduation,  and  they 
are  often  self-consciously  designed  to  exert  some  sort  of 
"civilizing"  influence  on  the  future  engineer.  In  their 
turn,  students  at  such  colleges  tend  to  regard  the  hu- 
manities as  so  much  "cultural  bull,"  a  necessary  if  dis- 
tasteful hurdle  to  be  jumped  on  the  way  to  a  degree  and 
a  job  in  the  real  world. 

But  the  WPI  Plan  is  an  attempt  to  educate  engin- 
eers who  can  see  and  deal  with  relationships  between 
their  professional  activities,  the  needs  of  people  and 
society,  and  the  values  of  our  cultural  heritage.  And  that 
means  that  study  of  the  humanities  is  a  central  part  of 
the  Plan. 

There  were  two  different  approaches  that  could 
have  been  taken  in  building  an  appreciation  for  human 
values  into  the  WPI  Plan  design.  One  would  be  to  offer 
a  traditional  humanities  minor  program  — an  array  of  sur- 
vey courses  in  different  areas  of  the  humanities,  backed 
up  with  a  "cafeteria"  selection  of  more  specific  courses 
in  the  various  fields.  This  approach  was  rejected,  how- 
ever, as  being  in  some  ways  too  superficial,  too  diffuse 
to  have  real  impact.  It  would  have  been  much  the  same 
sort  of  offering  as  the  non-technical  electives  WPI  had 
before  the  Plan,  but  without  the  stimulus  of  even  neces- 
sarily requiring  any  specific  number. 

Instead  of  this  older  model,  the  Plan  designers 
decided  it  would  be  more  fruitful  — and  more  of  an  edu- 
cational experience  — if  students  were  to  investigate  one 
area  of  the  humanities  — their  choice— in  some  depth. 
This  would  not  only  give  students  a  focused  and  con- 
centrated introduction  to  the  humanities,  but  it  would 
show  them  just  what  in-depth  study  in  the  humanities 
entails.  This  is  in  fact  different  from  the  sort  of  study 
needed  in  engineering  and  science  and  math,  and  it  is 
every  bit  as  difficult  — an  aspect  of  humanities  scholar- 
ship that  few  engineering  students  ever  learn  to  appre- 
ciate. 


Thus  was  born  the  humanities  sufficiency  for  Plan 
students  majoring  in  science  or  engineering.  The  suffi- 
ciency involves  the  equivalent  of  a  full  half-year  of  stud 
(six  courses)  in  one  area  of  the  humanities,  built  arounc 
a  theme  of  the  student's  own  choice.  Students  have 
several  broad  areas  in  which  they  can  develop  their  suft 
ciency  themes:  drama  and  theatre,  history,  history  of 
science  and  technology,  foreign  languages,  literature, 
music,  philosophy,  art,  and  religion  and  social  ethics. 

Sample  sufficiency  topics,  to  give  some  flavor  of 
the  diversity  possible,  include  the  following: 

The  U.S.,  the  U.S.S.R.,  and  detente 

Psychology  viewed  humanistically 

Remaining  human  in  the  modern  world 

Varieties  of  religious  experience 

Love  and  marriage 

The  U-2  incident  as  presented  in  the  contemporary 
press  and  in  later  memoirs 

Thomas  Jefferson's  contributions  in  practical 
technology 

The  military  performance  of  General  Philip  Sheridar 
during  the  Civil  War 

Ordered  strengths  — the  ethical  views  of  Locke, 
Kant,  Darwin,  and  Biblical  Christianity 

Islamic  philosophy 

Creativity  in  philosophy 

Why  man  seeks  religion 

A  history  of  American  thought  before  the  Civil  War 

The  development  of  storm  theory  in  the  United 
States 

New  England  Transcendental  thought  in  science 
and  literature 

Huckleberry  Finn  and  escape  from  civilization 

Arthur  Koestler:  his  life  and  political  novels 

Frank  Zappa  and  his  music 

An  analysis  of  Wagner's  Lohengrin 

An  analysis  of  two  productions  of  the  American 
Shakespeare  Theatre 

A  parallel  between  Othello  and  the  passion  of  Chris 

Rural  life  in  novels  by  Hardy  and  Twain 

Typically  a  student  will  be  interested  in  one  of  the 
general  areas  and  will  take  a  course  or  two  while  decid- 
ing just  exactly  what  the  theme  of  his  sufficiency  will  be 
A  sufficiency  program  will  normally  involve  five  related 
courses  taken  as  background  and  preparation,  then  cul- 
minate in  an  independent  study  for  one  term  actually 
writing  the  final  paper  or  project.  In  certain  areas,  stu- 
dents working  around  the  same  general  topic  will  partici 


by  the  editor 

iO  years  since 
Soddard's  rocket 

Vhen  the  Auburn  Rotary  Club  be- 
;an  their  plans  for  a  50th  anniver- 
ary  celebration  of  the  first  success- 
ul  launching  of  a  liquid-fueled 
ocket  by  Dr.  Robert  Goddard,  '08, 
hey  turned  to  WPI  for  help. 

They  wanted  someone  to  con- 
tract a  full  scale  replica  of  that  first 
ocket  as  a  focal  point  for  the  cere- 
nonies.  WPI  officials  immediately 
hought  of  Felix  Tozeski.  His  offi- 
ial  title  is  Technical  Designer  and 
nstructional  Associate  in  the  Me- 
hanical  Engineering  Department. 
Jnofficially,  he's  the  man  people  on 
ampus  turn  to  when  they  need  help 
•ith  a  tricky  project  involving  weld- 
ig  or  machine  shop  work. 

For  the  past  20  years,  "Phil"  has 
aught  students  how  to  weld,  how  to 
ast  metal  and  how  to  operate 
lachine  tools.  He  teaches  them  only 
he  fundamentals  since  his  students 
vill  never  earn  their  living  on  the 
aachine.  Instead,  they'll  be  design- 
ng  mechanical  equipment  or  super- 
ising  production  someday.  "They 
iave  to  know  the  basics,"  said 
^ozeski,  "so  they'll  understand  how 
hings  are  actually  made  in  a  shop." 

He  started  the  rocket  project  last 
all.  First  he  visited  the  Robert 
-lutchings  Goddard  Library  at 
riark  University,  where  Dr.  God- 
lard's  notebooks  and  papers  are 
:arefully  preserved  in  a  special 
'ault.  Mrs.  Robert  Goddard  herself 
lelped  him  locate  some  of  the  early 
lotes,  documents  and  photographs 
vhich  provided  him  a  start.  Later, 
ie  went  to  the  Smithsonian  Institu- 
ion  in  Washington  where  officials 
it  the  Air  and  Space  Museum  still 
inder  construction  arranged  for  him 


to  make  measurements  and  sketches 
from  the  authentic  replica  of 
Goddard's  first  rocket  which  will 
occupy  a  prominent  place  there. 
Their  greatest  help  was  a  set  of 
drawings  used  to  build  their  replica. 

"Once  I  had  all  this  information, 
it  was  just  a  case  of  making  all  the 
pieces  and  putting  them  together," 
commented  Phil. 

His  job  was  easier  than  Dr. 
Goddard's  was  50  years  ago  because 
Phil  knew  his  rocket  would  never 
fly.  The  intricate  inner  workings  of 
the  original  rocket  which  couldn't 
be  seen  are  missing  from  his  replica. 
However,  he  added  a  special  touch 
for  realism.  Phil's  rocket  does 
"fire"  with  the  aid  of  piped-in  pro- 
pane gas  which  shoots  a  long  flame 
from  the  nozzle  for  show  purposes. 

"People  have  been  asking  me 
whatever  happened  to  Goddard's 
original  rocket,"  said  Phil.  "It 
doesn't  exist  anymore.  After  his 
first  flight,  he  rebuilt  it  completely 
using  a  lot  of  old  parts.  I  under- 
stand he  did  this  several  times.  For 
historic  purposes,  it  would  have 
been  great  if  he'd  kept  it  intact.  But 
from  a  practical  point  of  view,  he 
saved  himself  hours  of  extra  work 
by  reusing  the  original  parts." 


A  major  part  of  Tozeski's  work  is 
teaching  courses  in  basic  machine 
tool  operation,  welding,  forging  and 
metal  casting.  He  and  his  partner 
John  "Joe"  Gale  also  do  mainte- 
nance on  college  equipment  between 
classes.  Gale  was  his  principal  helper 
on  the  rocket  project.  Several  stu- 
dents also  worked  with  him. 

"I  like  working  with  the  stu- 
dents," said  Phil.  "They  really 
appreciate  the  help  I  give  them  and 
I  find  that  I'm  learning  from  them 
all  the  time,  too.  It's  really  a 
pleasure  to  get  up  every  morning 
and  come  in  to  the  college." 

In  his  spare  time,  Phil  is  a  bit  of 
an  inventor.  Faced  with  splitting  a 
large  pile  of  logs  for  his  fireplace, 
he  built  a  hydraulic  log  splitter 
which  he  called  "Big  Squeeze."  He 
built  it  all  from  scrap  parts.  This 
device  was  featured  in  Popular 
Mechanics  and  he  was  deluged  with 
requests  for  information  on  how  he 
built  it.  He  has  built  equipment  for 
use  in  the  college  shop  such  as  a 
metal  roller,  and  a  machine  for 
changing  truck  tires.  He  loves  the 
challenge  of  a  mechanical  problem. 

If  he'd  been  born  50  years  earlier, 
he  might  have  been  one  of  Robert 
Goddard's  helpers.  It  was  just  this 
sort  of  versatile  mechanic  who  could 
do  anything  with  metal  who  found  a 
place  on  those  early  Goddard  teams. 


The  50th  anniversary  celebration 
was  held  March  16,  with  programs 
at  Pakachoag  Hill  in  Auburn,  the 
site  of  Goddard's  rocket's  41 -foot 
flight,  and  in  Harrington  Audi- 
torium on  campus.  The  featured 
guest  speaker  at  both  programs  was 
Navy  Captain  Eugene  A.  Cernan, 
the  astronaut  who  in  1972  com- 
manded Apollo  17,  the  last  Ameri- 
can manned  mission  to  the  moon. 
Cernan  was  the  last  astronaut  to 
leave  the  moon's  surface. 

Capt.  Cernan 's  participation  in 
the  commemoration  was  an  ironic 
reminder  of  a  1929  Boston  Globe 
headline  referring  to  Goddard's 
efforts:  "Moon  Rocket  Misses 
Target  by  238,799  Vi  Miles." 


-'' 


WPI  Journal  I  February -April  1976  I  A 1 


8  oars  and  1  f lyin 


A2  iary  April  1'1/fi  I  WPI  Journal 


aucer;  to  Canada ,  please 


y  Ruth  Trask 

YOU  GET  OUT  OF  LIFE  exactly  what  you  put  into 
it.  If  there  is  any  truth  in  that  old  saying,  then 
four  recent  WPI  graduates  and  one  undergraduate 
all  soon  be  due  for  some  pretty  impressive  dividends. 
:ising  as  early  as  4:30  a.m.  each  day,  they  undertake 
ainfully  rigorous  rounds  of  weight-lifting  (over  250,000 
ounds  a  week!),  running,  discus-throwing,  and  rowing, 
11  to  one  end — to  make  it  to  and  through  the  Olympic 
ials  this  spring  and  on  to  the  summer  Olympic  Games 
l  Canada. 

"Montreal  is  where  I  hope  to  be  in  July,"  says 
lark  Dupuis,  '72,  the  current  New  England  discus 
iiampion.  And  that's  exactly  where  Philadelphia-based 
:ullers  Jim  Raslavsky,  '68,  Bob  Raslavsky,  '77,  Edward 
>'Alba,  '73,  and  John  Mathews,  '74,  hope  to  be,  too. 
The  price  of  a  berth  on  the  U.S.  Olympic  team  is 
ot  cheap.  Having  extraordinary  athletic  ability  is  only 
le  beginning.  Athletic  skills  amount  to  little  or  nothing 
ithout  the  determination,  discipline,  and  continued 
sdication  necessary  to  develop  them.  Continuous  train- 
ig  and  athletic  competition  involve  so  much  singleness 
f  purpose  that  careers,  education,  and  family  life, 
Ithough  not  entirely  abandoned,  fall  of  necessity,  into 
olding  patterns.  Self-sacrifice  becomes  an  accepted  way 
f  life. 


■  ■  ARK  DUPUIS  has  been  dreaming  of  parti- 
I  w#fl  cipating  in  the  Olympics  since  he  was  17. 
I  W  I  Last  year  he  gave  up  an  excellent  managerial 
osition  with  Procter  &  Gamble  to  take  a  job  which  cut 
is  income  by  approximately  two-thirds. 

"I  needed  more  time  to  build  myself  up  and  perfect 
ly  skills  with  the  discus,"  he  explains.  "P&G  wasn't 
ble  to  give  me  enough  time  off  for  training.  I  decided 
3  look  for  a  teaching  job  at  a  private  school  where  I 
ould  take  advantage  of  the  long  vacations." 


Currently  an  instructor  at  the  Winchendon  (Mass.) 
School,  Dupuis  feels  that  he  has  found  an  adequate,  if 
not  ideal,  solution  to  his  problem.  His  wife,  Karen, 
agrees.  "It's  really  working  out  well  for  us  here,"  she 
says,  "even  though  some  of  our  friends  thought  we  were 
crazy  to  make  such  a  radical  change.  While  our  present 
income  can't  compare  with  our  former  one,  the  school 
does  provide  for  our  living  arrangements  and  food. 
Being  a  close-knit  family,  one  bonus  is  that  we  still  live 
near  our  parents.  Another  plus  is  that  Bridget  (the  baby) 
and  I  get  to  see  a  lot  more  of  Mark.  Besides,  he  is  ful- 
filling his  Olympic  goal  now,  and  when  Mark  is  happy, 
so  are  we." 

Home  for  the  Dupuis  family  now  is  a  cozy 
apartment  in  Merrell  Hall  at  the  Winchendon  School,  a 
far  cry  from  the  $40,000  home  they  had  to  sell  at  a  loss 
when  he  left  P&G.  But  nobody  complains  about  the 
change. 

His  schedule  at  Winchendon  leaves  him  plenty  of 
time  for  training,  although  he  is  responsible  around  the 
clock  for  the  welfare  of  the  16  boys  in  his  section  of 
Merrell.  From  11:45  until  3  the  students  have  a  sports 
break,  and  during  this  period  Mark  trains  in  weight  lift- 
ing, running,  and  throwing.  He  gets  in  extra  workout 
time  on  Wednesday  and  Friday  afternoons,  which  are 
free  time  from  noon  on.  And,  of  course,  there  are  week- 
ends and  long  vacations,  which  are  almost  entirely 
devoted  to  training. 

Training  and  competing  have  become  second  nature 
to  Dupuis  since  he  was  in  high  school.  At  WPI  Mark 
broke  a  school  record  by  hurling  the  discus  153'9". 
While  at  P&G  he  met  coach  Carl  Wallin  of  Dartmouth 
College,  who  encouraged  him  to  reach  his  potential  in 
the  discus.  At  that  point  in  his  life,  Dupuis  wanted  to 
stay  on  at  P&G  and  also  pursue  his  goal  with  the  discus, 
but  he  discovered  that  his  career  and  athletic  goals  were 
incompatible.  There  weren't  enough  hours  to  get  every- 
thing in,  so  he  and  P&G  came  to  an  amicable  parting. 

"I  will  probably  get  back  into  business,"  he  says, 
"but  right  now  the  Olympics  are  something  I  just  can't 
pass  up." 

He  became  associated  with  the  Pembroke-based  Bob 
Backus  Olympic  Health  Club  in  1972.  Bob  helped  him 
with  travel  expenses  to  various  AAU  meets.  Later,  Jack 


lark  Dupuis's  training  involves  scores 
f  practice  discus  throws  each  day. 


WPI  Journal  I  February- April  1976  I  A3 


McDonald  of  the  Greater  Boston  Track  Club  approach- 
ed him  at  a  meet  and  asked  him  to  join  his  club,  which 
Mark  did  in  1974.  The  club  offers  no  financial  assistance 
but  does  set  up  meets  and  plans  travel  and  team  effort. 

"Since  Tech  I  have  been  financially  on  my  own  with 
the  discus,"  Dupuis  reveals.  "At  a  minimum  I've  spent 
$3,000  of  my  own  money.  A  discus  costs  $80  and  a  pair 
of  track  shoes  $35.  The  money  goes  fast,  especially  when 
it  comes  to  special  equipment  and  travel  expenses." 

But  Dupuis  keeps  on  forging  ahead  in  spite  of 
financial  problems  and  a  lack  of  adequate  places  to 
train.  "Only  Boston  College  has   an  official  discus  circle 
in  New  England,"  he  reports.  "Most  colleges  and 
athletic  clubs  in  the  area  don't  know  how  to  build  a 
recessed  circle  with  concrete,  which  gives  the  thrower  a 
toe-board  effect,  as  in  the  shot  put." 

The  New  England  weather  has  been  no  asset  to  his 
training  either.  He  has  to  train  indoors  much  of  the 
year,  which  he  feels  gives  the  edge  to  his  west  coast 
competitors  who  train  outdoors  all  year.  Also,  the  20  to 
25  mile  per  hour  winds  common  in  the  west  are  more 
favorable  to  throwing.  Generally  the  winds  in  the 
northeast  are  minimal.  A  favorable  wind  can  make  as 
much  difference  as  15  feet  to  a  throw. 

"If  I  were  training  on  the  west  coast,  by  now  I 
would  have  already  qualified  for  the  Olympic  trials," 
Dupuis  states  flatly. 

Western  discus  men  can  practice  "sweaty  and 
loose,"  usually  in  ideal  80  degree  temperature.  That's  a 
decided  advantage,  says  Dupuis,  in  a  sport  which  is 
heavily  affected  by  the  whims  of  Mother  Nature.  On  a 
rainy  day  a  200-foot  throw  could  win  the  Olympics, 
while  on  a  warm,  windy  day  it  might  take  a  225-footer, 
he  explains. 

In  spite  of  the  vagaries  of  the  New  England 
weather,  Dupuis  is  confident  that  he'll  do  well  in  the 
trials  and  eventually  in  the  Olympics.  "Ludvik  Danek, 
the  Czech  discus  champion,  won  a  gold  medal  in  the 
1972  Olympics  and  he  comes  from  a  similar  climate.  If 
Danek  can  do  it,  Dupuis  can  do  it." 

Mark's  weight  coach,  Joe  Donahue  of  Northeastern 
University,  is  confident  that  he'll  qualify  for  the 
Olympic  trials  in  Eugene,  Oregon,  come  June  10th.  Last 
year,  as  New  England  discus  champion,  Dupuis  threw 
for  his  best  distance  to  date,  182'3" — a  record  breaker. 

"In  order  to  make  the  Olympic  trials,  I  have  to 
throw  196' 10"  [60  meters]  in  an  official  AAU  meet  by 
May  31st,"  he  says.  "Since  I'm  usually  at  my  throwing 
peak  during  the  middle  of  each  month,  I  hope  to  qualify 
two  weeks  prior  to  the  deadline." 

Once  the  196' 10"  mark  is  met,  the  AAU  will  pay 
his  expenses  for  the  first  day  of  the  Oregon  trials.  "That 
first  day  of  the  trials  I'll  have  to  hurl  196' 10"  again. 
The  next  day  the  top  three  hurlers  make  the  Olympic 
team.  And  if  I'm  one  of  them,  I'll  go  nuts,"  he 
exclaims. 

Dupuis  believes  that  if  he  can  turn  in  a  210'  throw, 
he'll  make  the  Olympic  team. "But  a  competitor  will 
probably  have  to  hit  between  212'  to  224'  to  win  a 
medal,"  he  says.  "As  usual,  a  lot  depends  on  the  wind 
and  rain  factor." 


■HHMBRQHHP^ 


A4  fry  Apr,/  1976  I  WPI  Journal 


4\l/ 


i. :  t 


-1  '3f        '■ 
•J  V  "  /■ ' 


i^sN^i 


H 


^j.*1 


In  order  to  get  himself  ready  for  the  time  trials, 
Dupuis  follows  a  rigid  three-part  training  program.  The 
first  part  consists  of  three  hours  of  running  and  weight- 
lifting  daily  to  help  build  strength  and  body  weight. 
"The  heavier  the  discus  man,  the  more  power  he  has  to 
propel  the  discus,"  he  says.  So  far  he's  increased  his 
weight  appreciably  during  the  past  year  and  is  fast 
approaching  his  goal  of  255  pounds.  "Gaining  weight  is 
quite  a  trick,"  he  admits,  "when  you  work  out  as  much 
as  I  do."  (His  wife  Karen  laughs  and  says,  "He 
manages,  though.  He  eats  a  lot!") 

When  forced  to  train  indoors,  Mark  tapes  a  two 
kilogram  discus  to  his  hand  and  practices  his  footwork, 
on  a  concrete  floor.  He  also  uses  a  "secret  weapon"  he 
has  devised  to  strengthen  his  midsection.  The  "weapon" 
is  an  eight-foot-long  Olympic  bar  equipped  with  300 
pounds  of  weights  which  he  rotates  360  degrees  from 
side  to  side. 

Part  two  of  his  program  is  concerned  with  power 
lifting.  "This  was  an  area  which  needed  improvement," 
he  confides.  So  far  he  has  competed  in  a  number  of 
weight-lifting  meets  and  built  himself  up  to  a  500  pound 
official  squat,  370  pound  bench  press,  and  a  deadlift  of 
600  pounds. 

The  third  part  of  his  training  program  involves 
continued  power  lifting  and  the  introduction  of  running, 
throwing,  and  the  explosive  Olympic  lifts. 

What,  if  in  spite  of  all  the  training  and  preparation, 
Dupuis  should  injure  himself  prior  to  the  Olympic  trials? 
What  would  his  attitude  be  then? 

"I've  thought  about  this  occasionally,"  he  says 
"and  decided  that  if  God  wants  me  to  make  the  Olym- 
pics, I  will.  If  I  should  become  injured,  I'll  still  have 
done  the  best  I'm  capable  of  doing.  There  will  be  no 
regrets." 

Dupuis  feels  that  the  long  hours  of  agonizing 
training  have  given  him  a  valuable  learning  experience. 
He  has  acquired  better  techniques  and  gotten  into  the 
physics  of  the  discus — how  to  improve  its  flight, 
acceleration,  and  explosion.  "When  it  comes  right  down 
to  it,"  he  explains,  "discus  throwing  is  a  very  technical 
event.  It  is  also  a  great  challenge  to  the  mind  and  body 
and  has  brought  me  closer  to  God." 

Although  he  believes  that  God  has  been  guiding  him 
in  his  Olympic  aspirations,  he  also  believes  in  his  own 
abilities  and  his  personal  capacity  to  endure.  "I  am  not 
like  Hercules  holding  up  his  magic  ring  to  receive  a 
lightning  bolt  of  power  from  the  heavens,"  he  says. 
"God  guides  and  I  follow,  but  I  know  what  I,  myself, 
have  to  do  to  compete  and  win." 

If  the  worst  happens,  however,  and  he  does  get 
hurt,  he  reports  that  he'd  have  to  think  twice  before 
he'd  consider  trying  out  for  the  next  Olympics.  "It  took 
me  four  years  to  get  my  weight  up  from  198  to  255. 
With  a  bad  injury,  all  that  I've  accomplished  would  be 
lost.  It  would  take  another  four  years  for  me  to  get  back 
where  I  am  right  now.  Could  I  ask  myself  or  my  family 
to  go  through  all  this  again?" 

Still,  weight  men  don't  peak  until  age  32,  and 
Dupuis  is  only  25.  If  for  some  reason  he  doesn't  make  it 
to  the  Olympics  in  1976,  Moscow  and  1980  are  coming 
up. 


WPI  Journal  I  February- April  1976  I  A5 


WHILE  DUPUIS  is  anticipating  participating 
in  his  first  Olympic  trials,  Jim  Raslavsky 
'68,  has  started  out  along  his  second  tortuous 
trail  to  the  Olympics  and  says  he  hasn't  ruled  out  1980 
either.  Back  in  1968,  his  first  time  around,  he  was 
hampered  by  an  injured  back  and  arm  and  lost  out  in 
the  rowing  quarter-finals  held  in  Long  Beach, 
California. 

But  this  time  his  prospects  look  considerably 
brighter.  In  top  physical  condition  and  with  a  string  of 
recent  wins  under  his  belt,  the  world  class  heavyweight 
elite  single  sculler  has  Montreal  firmly  in  his  sights. 

It  was  at  St.  John's  High  School  in  Shrewsbury, 
Mass.  that  Raslavsky  discovered  rowing  and  the  first 
seeds  of  the  Olympic  dream  took  root.  Pete  Johnson,  a 
national  lightweight  champion  sculler  was  training  at 
Lake  Quinsigamond,  where  the  St.  John's  crew  rows, 
and  invited  Jim  to  work  along  with  him.  Before  long  the 
young  heavyweight  was  outdistancing  his  teacher. 

After  graduating  from  St.  John's,  where  he  had 
competed  in  numerous  sculling  events,  he  entered  WPI, 
which  had  no  crew  team  at  all.  He  quickly  remedied  that 
situation  by  starting  a  team.  Four  years  later  his  eight- 
oared  crew  won  the  New  England  Small  College 
Championship! 

Since  graduating  from  WPI,  Jim  has  married, 
become  the  father  of  two  daughters,  built  a  house,  and 
recently  moved  to  Philadelphia  where  he  is  supervisor  of 
pewter  sculpture  production  at  the  Franklin  Mint.  In 
spite  of  a  demanding  job  (especially  in  this  bicentennial 
year),  and  a  full  family  life,  Jim's  Olympic  goals  have 
not  diminished.  His  schedule  is  mind  boggling. 

Every  morning  from  March  through  November  he 
gets  up  at  4:30  a.m.  and  drives  from  his  apartment  in 
suburban  Philadelphia  to  the  Undine  Barge  Club  on  the 
Schuylkill  River.  There,  in  the  sometimes  sub-freezing 
weather,  he  launches  his  27-foot  long,  34-pound  single 
shell  into  the  choppy  waters  and  starts  his  practice 
session.  It  is  a  time  for  perfecting  techniques,  for 
building  stamina,  for  battling  pain. 

An  hour  later  he  leaves  the  river  and  drives  the  16 
miles  to  the  mint  where  his  working  day  starts  at  7:45. 
(The  mint  has  agreed  to  give  Jim  a  leave  of  absence 
should  he  make  the  Olympics.)  At  4:30,  his  work  day 
over,  he  drives  back  to  the  Undine  Barge  Club  for  two 
more  hours  of  sculling  under  the  supervision  of  Jim 
Barker,  one  of  the  country's  top  coaches. 

During  the  off-season  from  November  to  May,  Jim 
runs  four  to  six  miles  each  morning  from  his  home  in 
Newtown  Square,  Pa.  Then  there's  the  hill  work,  which 
Jim  explains  with  a  broad  smile  on  his  rugged  face: 
"You  look  for  the  steepest  hill  you  can  find,  then  run 
up  and  down  it  as  fast  as  you  can.  You  do  this  five  or 
six  times  until  your  legs  refuse  to  carry  you  any 
farther." 

Athletic  Club,  a  training  center  for  Philadelphia 
oarsmen.  There,  under  the  watchful  eye  of  weight-lifting 
coach  Al  Nino,  Jim  lifts  a  total  of  up  to  154,000  pounds 
during  his  workout. 


\ 


N 


AS  try  April  J971      WPI  Journal 


Afterwards  he  tackles  the  "monster,"  a  giant 
rowing  machine  made  of  pipes,  pulleys,  cables,  and 
weights  that  can  simulate  the  immense  physical  strain  of 
a  2000-meter  sculling  race.  Grasping  the  rowing  bar,  his 
face  becomes  a  mask  of  intense  concentration,  every 
muscle  tense,  every  movement  part  of  a  powerful 
rhythm.  After  40  strokes  his  face  contorts  in  pain.  His 
temples  throb  and  perspiration  slicks  his  forehead.  He 
passes  100  strokes,  200,  300.  His  eyes  are  glazed  and  he 
gulps  for  air.  After  350  strokes,  he  leaves  the  "monster" 
and  silently,  trembling  with  fatigue,  he  walks  away, 
leaving  the  machine  for  is  teammates. 

Is  the  pain  and  the  agony  worth  it?  Is  the  prospect 
of  winning  an  Olympic  gold  medal  worth  the  almost 
superhuman  effort  involved  to  get  it? 

"Yes,"  Raslavsky  says  in  his  soft-spoken  manner. 
"And  there  are  good  reasons  why  we  train  as  rigorously 
as  we  do.  Sculling  is  the  most  exhausting  sport  there  is. 
In  a  2000-meter  race  a  good  sculler  will  burn  up  more 
energy  in  seven  minutes  than  a  pro  football  player  uses 
in  a  60-minute  game.  We  have  to  work  hard  to  build  up 
our  heart  and  lung  capacity." 

Strenuous  workouts  have  slowed  his  normal  pulse 
rate  to  an  incredible  42  beats  per  minute  and  have  really 
begun  to  pay  off  for  him  all  around.  Last  year  he  took 
first  place  in  the  Middle  States  Regatta  in  Philadelphia 
and  first  place  at  the  Head  of  the  Connecticut  Regatta  in 
Middletown.  Against  several  former  national  champions 
and  top  representatives  of  the  Pan  American  team,  he 
placed  a  respectable  third  in  Boston's  prestigious  Head 
of  the  Charles  Regatta  last  October.  Such  wins  can't 
help  but  bolster  his  confidence  as  he  looks  ahead  to  the 
time  trials  and  to  Montreal.  Beyond  the  agony  of  effort 
lies  victory. 


j#**s&» 


fm 


JIM'S  BROTHER,  BOB,  '77,  is  his  partner  in  pain. 
Bob  and  Jim,  sons  of  Albert  J.  Raslavsky,  '39, 
a  star  WPI  athlete,  both  got  their  sculling  starts  at 
St.  John's  in  Shrewsbury.  Jim  also  took  the  time  to 
teach  his  younger  brother  all  that  he  knew  about  rowing 
during  long  afternoons  on  Lake  Quinsigamond.  Later 
Bob  followed  Jim  to  WPI. 

Now  Bob  has  transferred  from  WPI  for  a  semester 
(to  Villanova)  so  that  he  can  be  in  Philadelphia  to  train 
for  the  Olympic  trials  with  Jim.  The  trials  are  slated  for 
June  on  Carnegie  Lake  near  Princeton,  N.J. 

"I've  been  away  from  serious  training  for  quite  a 
while,"  Bob  says.  "But  working  out  with  Jim  makes  it 
easier.  He  even  has  a  special  weight-lifting  room  right  in 
his  apartment  building." 


*-"*/•     * 


■ 


.    * 


fl^H 


Left:  Jim  Raslavsky  enmeshed  in  the 
"Monster"  rowing  trainer,  while  club- 
mates  wait  their  turns. 
Right:  Along  on  the  Schuylkill,  Jim  rows 
his  single  shell  for  hours  every  day. 


Bob,  who  also  belongs  to  the  Undine  Barge  Club, 
was  a  star  schoolboy  sculler  at  St.  John's.  He  won  the 
New  England  Singles  High  School  Championship  in 
1969,  just  20  minutes  after  he'd  competed  in  the  eight! 
The  finish  was  so  big  that  Sports  Illustrated  featured 
Bob  in  its  "Faces  in  the  Crowd"  section.  The  magazine 
also  awarded  him  a  silver  trophy. 

In  1970  he  was  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Youth 
Rowing  Team  and  took  part  in  the  Junior  World 
Championships  held  in  Greece.  While  still  at  St.  John's 
he  came  in  second  in  the  1971  National  High  School 
Championships  at  Syracuse.  In  1972  and  1973  he 
captained  the  freshman  rowing  team  at  Boston 
University  and  was  awarded  a  special  plaque  for  his 
contributions  to  freshman  rowing. 

After  a  year  at  Norton  Company,  he  entered  WPI 
and  became  a  member  of  the  crew  team.  His  most  recent 
official  race  was  last  year's  Head  of  the  Charles  Regatta, 
which  was  coached  by  David  Ploss,  '70,  former  WPI 
coxswain. 

Bob  now  follows  essentially  the  same  training 
program  as  Jim.  He  is  also  working  toward  achieving 
the  world  class  heavyweight  elite  single  classification  that 
his  brother  holds. 


ED  D'ALBA,  '73,  has  the  April  date  of  the 
Princeton  pre-trial  races  inked  in  on  his  schedule. 
"And  in  June  I'll  try  out  for  any  spot  I  can  get," 
he  declares.  "Singles,  doubles,  quads,  whatever.  There 
are  only  seven  slots  open  on  the  U.S.  Olympic  sculling 
team,  and  I'm  busting  myself  to  qualify  for  one  of 
them." 

D'Alba  is  a  top  oarsman  and  former  captain  of  the 
WPI  crew  and,  like  Jim  Raslavsky,  has  to  work  around 
a  full-time  job  to  train  for  the  trials.  Currently  he  is  a 
project  engineer  at  Philadelphia  International  Airport  on 
assignment  from  Urban  Engineers,  but  he  manages  to 
budget  his  free  time  to  train  and  compete. 

A8     R  tru.try  April  1976  I  WPI  Journal 


"The  amazing  thing  about  this  year's  pre-Olymp: 
crew  competition  is  the  large  number  of  aspiring  athhes 
from  small  colleges  such  as  WPI,"  he  says.  "The  usul 
big  name  colleges  like  Harvard  will  be  represented,  b : 
they  will  not  dominate  the  squad  as  they  have  in  the 
past.  WPI  has,  perhaps,  more  Olympic  hopefuls  traimt: 
in  Philadelphia  (the  rowing  capital  of  the  U.S.)  than  ny 
other  college  or  university.  Training  together  with  th< 
hope  that  one  or  all  of  us  will  make  the  team  provide 
added  psych  which  is  so  necessary  to  get  us  through  <ir 
workouts.  A  WPI  oarsman  on  the  Olympic  squad  wclld 
be  a  plus  both  for  Tech  and  the  WPI  rowing  progran '" 
he  emphasizes. 

At  the  end  of  his  senior  year  at  WPI,  when  Ed's 
team  won  a  number  of  races,  the  thought  of  a  berth  a 
the  Olympic  team  began  to  emerge.  The  thought  now 
looks  like  more  of  a  reality  as  the  rewards  of  his 
intensive  training  have  become  apparent.  For  exampl< 
during  the  last  race  of  the  season,  D'Alba  won  both  ne 
singles  and  doubles  races  at  the  Frost  Bite  Regatta. 

Earlier,  he  teamed  up  with  PKT  fraternity  brotho 
Jim  Raslavsky  for  the  Undine  Barge  Club.  They  ente;jd 
several  doubles  races,  including  the  Middle  States 
Regatta,  where  they  finished  several  lengths  ahead  of  he 
nearest  rival,  only  to  find  that  they  had  been  disqualied 
for  passing  under  the  wrong  bridge  arch.  Several  wee: 
later,  with  no  disqualifications,  they  placed  second  in 
field  of  sixteen  in  the  Head  of  the  Schuylkill  and  fouip 
out  of  forty  in  the  Head  of  the  Charles. 

"We  never  trained  in  the  double — we  just  got  in  |i 
race  day  and  beat  a  lot  of  people,"  D'Alba  reports. 
"Jim  and  I  could  really  make  the  boat  click.  There's 
a  long  road  ahead  of  us  before  Montreal,"  he  adds. 
"But  we're  giving  it  all  we've  got." 


=ft:  Bob  Raslavsky  straining  his  way 
ward  the  hoped-for  Olympic  berth, 
ight:  Ed  D'Alba  holds  down  John 
'athews'  legs  during  a  workout. 


!  ■  OHN  MATHEWS,  '74 

!    I  recently  gave  up  his  civil 
h^  engineering  job  and  is  already 

dng  on  his  own  resources  as 

:  globe  trots  from  one  regatta  to 

other  posting  remarkable  results. 

Affiliated  with  the  Philadelphia  Vesper  Boat  Club, 
!  made  his  most  important  win  to  date  when  he  rowed 
!>w  and  helped  capture  a  gold  medal  for  the  U.S.  in  the 
j  o-man  shell-with-coxwain  event  at  the  Pan  American 

imes  in  Mexico  City  on  October  19th. 

The  December  issue  of  The  Oarsman  magazine 
1  )orted  that  prior  to  the  all-important  preliminary  heat 
:  Oct.  15th,  Mathews  said,  "Let's  not  mess  around. 
*  t's  just  go  kill  'em".  .  .  and  then  proceeded  to  do 
1  actly  that.  The  Vesper  boat  spurted  into  the  lead  over 

iba,  Uruguay,  and  Mexico  in  the  semi-final,  and  was 
r  t  of  reach  in  the  first  500.  Rowing  a  solid  30-31 

okes  per  minute  through  the  middle  1000  and 

:reasing  the  rating  slightly  in  the  last  quarter,  the  U.S. 
t  ;w  pulled  ever  further  in  front,  besting  second  place 
\  iba  by  21  seconds.  The  win  put  the  Vesper  team  in  the 

lals  on  Sunday  when  they  rowed  past  the  Canadian 
jtry  and  brought  the  U.S.  its  first  gold  at  the  regatta. 
The  victory  was  doubly  sweet  for  the  former  co- 

ptain  of  the  WPI  crew.  It  made  Montreal  look  like 
bre  of  a  sure  thing,  and  it  helped  erase,  or  at  least 

riper,  the  memories  of  Nottingham,  England,  and  the 

iastrous  1975  World  Rowing  Championships. 
Actually,  Mathews  and  his  teammate  Darrell 

eugdenhil  of  Seattle  (coxed  pairs)  were  a  couple  of 
lighter  lights  for  the  U.S.  at  Nottingham  last  August. 

ley  started  out  on  a  positive  note  and  had  a  little  bit  of 
'ck  in  the  Sept.  1  event.  The  September  8  issue  of 

forts  Illustrated  reported:  "In  the  whole  day's  rowing 

ily  the  "Monster"  and  his  teammate  placed." 

/lathews,  at  6'4"  and  225  pounds,  amiably  invites 
'jople  to  call  him  "Monster,"  although  at  WPI  and  Phi 

gma  Kappa,  he  was  dubbed  "Tree.") 
Describing  his  effort  involved  in  the  event,  "Tree" 

id,  directly  following  the  race,  "I've  never  dug  down 

side  so  deep.  I'm  still  all  pain  from  the  thighs  down. 

'hen  we  were  coming  up  from  fifth  place  on 

ugoslavia,  just  like  it  says  in  the  stories,  everything 
ent  black  in  front  of  me." 


Exhausted  but  euphoric  over  the  third  place  semi- 
final photo  finish,  Mathews  walked  into  the  boathouse. 
The  next  day  at  the  finals,  the  rains  came,  and  the 
winds,  and  Mathews  and  his  teammate  only  managed  a 
fifth.  Said  a  dejected  John  Mathews,  "It  wasn't  my 
day." 

It  wasn't  a  day  for  the  U.S.  either.  For  the  first 
time  in  rowing  history  the  U.S.  did  not  appear  at  the 
medals  table  at  the  championships. 

In  June  at  Henley-on-the-Thames,  England, 
Mathews  and  his  Vesper  teammates  had  fared  consider- 
ably better  snaring  a  second  place  in  the  straight  four 
event.  Later  in  the  season  he  won  two  gold  medals  at  the 
U.S.  Nationals  rowing  the  coxed-pair  and  coxed-four 
events.  At  the  Head  of  the  Charles  Regatta  in  October 
rowing  for  Vesper  he  copped  two  firsts  in  the  8-man  elite 
and  elite  four-oared  shells  and  cox,  simultaneously 
winning  the  Boston  Globe  Trophy  and  the  Schaefer 
Trophy.  This  summer  John  will  try  for  the  U.S.  team  by 
competing  in  the  U.S.  coxed-pair  trials. 


THE  ROAD  to  Montreal  for  all  of  WPI's  athletes 
will  be  paved  with  similar  victories  and  defeats.  It 
will  be  paved  with  sweat,  exhaustion,  humiliation, 
determination,  and  immeasurable  self-sacrifice.  But, 
most  of  all,  it  will  be  paved  with  pain. 

Every  WPI  Olympic  hopeful  knows  that  somewhere 
a  Russian  or  a  Norwegian  athlete  is  straining  every 
muscle,  every  nerve,  to  its  utmost,  and  blinding  himself 
to  the  agony.  As  Jim  Raslavsky  says,  "It's  the  man  who 
can  stand  the  pain  the  longest  who  will  win  the 
Olympics." 


WPI  Journal  I  February- April  1976  I  A9 


1929 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are  based 
had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni  Association 
before  March  15,  when  it  was  compiled  for 
publication.  Information  received  after  that  date 
will  be  used  in  succeeding  issues  of  the  WPI 
Journal. 


1914 


R.H.  Dufault  and  his  wife,  Chris,  have 
moved  from  their  Spencer  home  and  joined 
forces  with  their  daughter,  Mrs.  Claire  D. 
Wilson  at  32  Pine  St.,  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass. 
02181. 


1916 


Mrs.  Robert  E.  Lamb  broke  her  hip  and  leg 
last  winter  but  is  making  good  progress  in 
her  recovery  and  hopes  to  attend  the  60th 
class  reunion  with  Bob  in  June. 


1925 


Robert  E.  Quinlan  has  retired.  He  was  a 
regional  representative  for  Equity  Funding 
Securities  Corp.  in  Albuquerque,  N.M. 


1926 


Warren  P.  Gleason  currently  serves  as  a 
trustee  and  a  member  of  the  planning  board 
of  the  Maine  Coast  Memorial  Hospital  in 
Ellsworth,  Me.  He  is  also  chairman  of  the 
utility  committee  in  Winter  Harbor. 


1927 


Charles  MacLennan  continues  with  the 
Canadian  Executive  Service  Overseas  and  is 
still  located  with  his  host  Brazilian  family  in 
Florianopolis.  He  writes  that  as  an  advisor  in 
the  electrical  development  in  the  area,  he  has 
experienced  more  personal  satisfaction  than 
at  "any  time  during  my  previous  working 
career."  Recently  he  vacationed  in  Florida, 
Illinois,  Nova  Scotia,  and  England.  He  and  his 
wife,  Audrey,  are  building  a  house  in  River 
John,  Nova  Scotia. 


Paris  Fletcher,  an  emeritus  WPI  trustee,  and 
his  wife,  Marion,  were  recent  visitors  at  the 
home  of  the  Arthur  W.  Knights  in  Lower 
Waterford,  Vt.  .  .  .  Harold  P.  Richmond 
became  a  Life  Member  of  the  Institute  of 
Electrical  and  Electronics  Engineers  last  fall. 
The  status  is  reserved  for  those  who  have 
had  a  great  deal  of  experience  in  the 
profession  and  a  long  association  with  IEEE. 


1930 


The  Carl  Backstroms  toured  six  Central 
American  countries  and  discovered  that 
winter  in  Guatemala  at  5000'  is  like  spring  in 
New  England. 


1931 


The  former  corporate  director  of  the  contract 
management  division  at  Collins  Radio  Co., 
Cedar  Rapids,  Iowa,  William  Graham,  has 
retired.  ...  A  memorial  communion  table  and 
linens  were  dedicated  in  memory  of  the  Rev. 
Walker  T.  Hawley  at  Middlebury  (Vt.) 
Congregational  Church  last  December.  Rev. 
Hawley,  who  had  been  pastor  at  the  church 

from  1947  to  1968,  died  in  1974 H. 

Edwin  Hosmer,  who  was  with  Monsanto  in 
Springfield,  Mass.,  retired  recently.  .  .  . 
Robert  S.  Williamson,  an  industrial  engineer 
who  had  been  with  Union  Carbide  Co., 
Cleveland  for  many  years,  has  retired. 


1932 


Emile  R.  Dube  is  retired.  He  had  been 
quality  assurance  manager  for  Swift  & 
Company  in  Kearny,  N.J.  .  .  .  Elliot  E.  Jones 
retired  as  a  consultant  for  U.S.  Steel  last 
May. 


1933 


Arthur  H.  Dixon  has  retired.  For  many  years 
he  was  with  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclamation 
in  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  .  John  J.  Dwyer  has 
retired  after  serving  38  years  as  a  teacher  and 
director  of  Worcester  Vocational  Trade  High 
School.  He  and  his  wife  now  expect  to  spend 
much  of  the  time  living  on  their  new  36-foot 
cabin  cruiser.  Dwyer,  who  is  the  past 
president  of  the  Massachusetts  Association 
of  Vocational  Administrators,  also  plans  to 
remain  active  with  the  association.  .  .  .  Also 
on  the  retired  list  is  Paul  G.  Guernsey.  He 
was  sales  manager  of  the  credit  card 
department  at  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  Anthony  Kapinos,  who  was  with 
Studebaker  Worthington,  Inc.,  of  Springfield, 
Mass.,  for  many  years,  has  retired. 


1934 


Dwight  J.  Dwinell,  who  retired  in  1973  a 
manager  of  equipment  design  at  GTE 
Sylvania's  equipment  development  plant  ir 
Salem,  Mass.,  was  recently  named  a  recipi 
of  the  Leslie  H.  Warner  Technical 
Achievement  Award  for  his  part  in  the 
development  of  new  equipment  for  the 
production  of  Magicubes.  The  award  is 
designed  to  provide  both  recognition  and 
substantial  cash  to  employees  whose 
outstanding  technical  achievements  make 
important  contributions  to  the  growth  and 
profitability  of  General  Telephone  £r 
Electronics  Corporation.  Mr.  Dwinell  joined 
GTE  Sylvania  in  Salem  in  1936  as  an 
assistant  production  supervisor.  Later  he 
served  as  an  equipment  designer  and 
supervisor  of  equipment  design.  He  holds  1 
U.S.  patents. 

Edward  R.  Markert  has  retired.  He  had 
been  chief  of  the  factory  branch  at 
Springfield  (Mass.)  Armory.  .  .  .  Also  retiree 
is  Frederick  G.  Webber.  He  was  the  form 
assistant  to  the  vice  president  of  engineerir 
at  General  Instrument  Corp.,  Chicopee,  Ma 


1935 


Edward  J.  Cove  retired  as  a  local  test 
foreman  for  New  England  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.  in  February.  .  .  .  C.  Marshal 
Dann,  U.S.  Commissioner  of  Patents  and 
Trademarks,  spoke  before  the  Los  Angeles 
Area  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  January.  Hi 
explained  how  businessmen  and  exporters 
may  benefit  from  patent  and  trademark 
protection.  Last  November  the  U.S.  becam 
the  first  country  having  major  patent  activit 
to  ratify  the  "Patent  Cooperative  Treaty",  a 
major  advance  which  will  help  Americans  g 
patent  protection,  Dann  said.  .  .  .  Weslye  L 
Martin,  a  self-employed  professional 
engineer,  is  located  in  Bennington,  Vt. 


1936 


Retiring  after  20  years  of  federal  service  as 
civilian  employe,  George  E.  Rocheford  wa 
honored  at  a  reception  given  by  fellow 
employees  of  the  New  England  Division  of 
the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Walthar 
in  January.  He  had  been  assistant  chief  of 
the  structural  section  in  the  engineering 
division  at  Corps  headquarters. 


AW  lary-April  1976     WPI  Journal 


?37 


1942 


1945 


f.  Ray  Linsley,  executive  head  of  the  civil 
ineering  department  at  Stanford 
\/ersity,  has  retired. 


?38 


rently  Jack  Germain  serves  as  vice 
jident  of  sales  for  New  Britain  (Conn.) 
;hinery,  a  division  of  Lucas  Machine. 


?39 


ward  J.  Blanchard  is  with  Willamette 
i  &  Steel  in  Richmond,  Calif.  .  .  .  Bryant 
ider  Corporation,  a  unit  of  Ex-Cell-0 
p.,  has  announced  the  appointment  of  E. 
ice  Crabtree  as  general  sales  manager  for 
ant  grinding  equipment.  He  will  be 
>onsible  for  all  domestic  and  foreign  sales, 
ir  to  joining  Bryant  Grinder,  he  was 
ctor  of  marketing  for  Erickson  Tool  Co. 


)40 


emie  LaFrance,  Jr.  is  a  design  engineer 
Martin  Marietta  Corp.  in  Baltimore,  Md. 
Gerald  Lainer  holds  the  post  of 
5ident  at  Telesco  International  Corp., 
nview,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Richard  F.  Scharmann 
retired.  For  many  years  he  was  a  scientist 
branch  superintendent  with  U.S.  Naval 
Development  in  Warminster,  Pa.  .  .  . 
ry  Terkanian  currently  serves  as 
cipal  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co.  in 
iford,  Mass. 


HI 


nard  H.  White  has  been  elected  a 
ctor  of  the  Mechanics  National  Bank  in 
rcester.  He  is  president  and  treasurer  of 
.  White  Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  Auburn 
president  and  director  of  the  Milford 
ter  Co.  and  the  Whitinsville  Water  Co.  An 
irporator  of  Hahnemann  Hospital,  he  is 
i  past  president  of  the  Auburn  Rotary;  a 
Tiber  of  NSPE;  American  Water  Works 
ociation;  New  England  Water  Works 
■oc;  Massachusetts  and  New  Hampshire 
ter  Works  associations;  and  New  England 
>  Association. 


Donald  D.  Alden  works  for  Beringer  Co., 
Inc.,  Marblehead,  Mass.  .  .  .  E.  Curtis 
Ambler,  chief  engineer  in  technical  services 
at  the  Stanley  Works,  recently  received  the 
Jaycee  Public  Service  Award  in  Newington, 
Conn.  He  is  a  town  councilman,  leader  of  the 
Republican  minority,  and  has  served  as  the 
town's  representative  to  the  Central 
Connecticut  Refus3  Authority.  For  eight  years 
he  was  on  the  town  plan  and  zoning 
commission.  A  cofounder  and  president  of 
Newington  Antique  Fire  Apparatus,  Inc.,  he  is 
also  a  member  of  the  volunteer  fire 
department.  He  is  a  director  of  the 
Newington  Children's  Hospital  and  the  first 
lay  moderator  in  the  246-year  history  of  the 
local  Congregational  Church.  He  is  a  charter 
member  and  past  master  of  Sequin  Lodge 
140  A.F.  &  A.  M.  and  a  retired  lieutenant 
commander  in  the  Naval  Reserve. 

Prof.  Roy  Bourgault  of  WPI's  mechanical 
engineering  department  was  coauthor  of  the 
article  "Teaching  Failure  Analysis:  Two 
Approaches",  which  appeared  in  the  January 
edition  of  Engineering  Education.  .  .  .  Paul  C. 
Disario,  Jr.  is  now  vice  president  of  Burns 
and  Roe  Industrial  Services  Corp.  in  Paramus, 
N.J.  .  .  .  Edward  A.  Hebditch  serves  as 
principal  at  E.A.  Hebditch  Assoc,  in 
Pittsburgh. 


1943 


Robert  W.  Alexander  is  with  the  Marine 
Plastics  Division  of  Northern  Petro-chemical 
Co.  in  Clinton,  Mass.  .  .  .  Jackson  L. 
Durkee  has  left  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation 
after  a  28-year  bridge  building  career  in  the 
firm's  fabricated  steel  construction  division, 
which  is  now  being  closed.  Currently  he  is 
visiting  professor  of  civil  engineering  at 
Cornell  University.  While  with  Bethlehem,  he 
had  been  the  company's  chief  bridge 
engineer  since  1965  and  was  responsible  for 
the  structural  integrity  of  major  bridgework. 
.  .  .  Galpin  M.  Etherington  is  employed  by 
Birmingham  (Ala.)  Stove  &  Range  Co.  .  .  . 
Robert  A.  Painter,  president  of  the 
Electronic  Instrument  &  Specialty 
Corporation,  Stoneham,  Mass.,  was  recently 
elected  to  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
Smaller  Business  Association  of  New  England 
(SBANE),  Waltham.  SBANE  is  a  private 
non-profit  association  of  over  1 ,200  smaller 
businesses  in  New  England.  .  .  .  Frank  Szel 
is  now  with  the  engineering  and  construction 
services  division  of  Dow  Chemical  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio. 


1944 


Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  president  of 
Donahue  Industries,  Inc.,  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 
has  been  elected  a  trustee  of  Memorial 
Hospital,  Worcester.  He  is  a  W PI  trustee, 
Shrewsbury  Finance  Committee  chairman, 
and  director  of  the  Massachusetts 
Association  of  Finance  Committees.  A  past 
director  of  the  Worcester  Area  Chamber  of 
Commerce,  he  is  also  past  president  and 
director  of  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Employers  Association. 


Anson  C.  Fyler  has  resigned  from  Arrow- 
Hart  as  president  to  become  the  new 
president  and  chief  executive  officer  of  the 
Superior  Electric  Co.,  Bristol,  Conn.  Since 
1946  he  has  been  associated  with  the 
electrical  industry,  becoming  the  president  of 
Arrow-Hart,  Inc.  in  1966.  He  was  named 
chairman  of  the  board  in  1970.  He  is  also  a 
director  of  Crouse-Hinds  which  merged  with 
Arrow-Hart  last  year.  Presently  he  serves  as  a 
director  of  the  Connecticut  Bank  &  Trust 
Co.,  Phoenix  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.,  and 
Veeder  lndustries,lnc,  and  as  a  WPI  trustee. 
.  .  .  Charles  C.  Shattuck  holds  the  post  of 
director  of  manufacturing  for  Standard 
Electric  Time  in  Springfield,  Mass. 


1946 


Married:  Robert  D.  Bartlett  and  Elva 
Grigsby  on  December  27,  1975.  The  Bartletts 
reside  in  Shawnee,  Kansas. 

Francis  L.  Bliven  is  an  extrusion 
superintendent  at  Lloyd  Mfg.  Co.,  Inc., 
Warren,  R.I.  .  .  .  Lionel  B.  Brooks,  chairman 
of  the  board  and  chief  executive  officer  of 
Eastco,  New  England  distributors  for 
Whirlpool,  RCA,  Lloyds,  Monarch  Carpets, 
and  Congoleum,  has  been  elected  president 
of  the  Electric  Institute,  the  electric  industry 
association  serving  Eastern  Massachusetts. 
He  joined  Eastco  in  1946.  .  .  .  Robert  B. 
Charlton  is  with  Wallace  McRoy  &  Assoc, 
Birmingham,  Ala.  .  .  .  Rudolf  L.  Hirss  is 
employed  by  Giroux  Screen  Print  in 
Burlington,  Vt. 

Carlton  G.  Lutts,  Jr.  owns  the  Cabot 
Market  Letter  in  Salem,  Mass.  .  .  .  James  L. 
Sullivan  has  joined  Inland  Ryerson 
Construction  Products  Co.  in  Milwaukee, 
Wis.  .  .  .  Robert  C.  Taylor  works  for 
Thermoplastics  Co.,  Inc.,  Leicester,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Miczyslaw  J.  Waclawek  is  now  with  Lely 
Multipower  and  resides  in  Temple,  Texas. 


1947 


Lawrence  T.  Garnett  works  for  Statham 
Instruments,  Inc.,  Oxnard,  Calif.  .  .  .  Presently 
John  G.  Hambor  is  with  Galileo  Electro 
Optics  in  Eatontown,  N.J.  .  .  .  James  J. 
Hierl  is  employed  in  the  magnetic  peripherals 
division  at  Control  Data  Corp.  in  Oklahoma 
City,  Okla.  .  .  .  Stephen  Koval  is  with  the 
Department  of  Youth  Authority  in  Paso 
Robles,  Calif.  .  .  .  Paul  D.  O'Donnell, 
division  general  manager  of  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corporation  in  Tampa,  Fla.,  has  been 
elected  as  a  member  of  the  board  of  directors 
at  the  Exchange  Bank  of  Westshore.  Listed  in 
Who's  Who,  he  is  also  a  director  of  I  EM, 
Mexico  City,  one  of  the  largest 
manufacturing  concerns  in  Mexico  and  a  past 
president  of  AIIE.  He  is  on  the  board  of 
governors  of  the  Greater  Tampa  Chamber  of 
Commerce  and  serves  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  Florida  Gulf  Coast  Symphony, 
and  Junior  Achievement  of  Greater  Tampa. 


WPI  Journal  I  February -April  1976  I A11 


WE  VE  BEEN  WORKING  O' 

FORTHE  LAST  100  YEAR! 


And  we're  still  working  on  it. 

You  see,  the  invention  of  the  telephone  didn't  stop  with  Alexander 
Graham  Bell.  It  just  started. 

Because  the  telephone  is  just  the  beginning  of  a  telephone  call. 
It's  part  of  an  intricate  network  of  a  trillion  parts  and  nearly 
a  billion  miles  of  circuits. 

To  build  this  network,  we  at  Bell  Labs  and  Western 
Electric  have  long  worked  as  a  team  with  AT&T  and  your 
Bell  telephone  company. 

As  a  result,  America  has  the  best  telecommunications 
system  in  the  world. 

And  the  world  has  the  benefits  of  such  Bell  System 
innovations  as  the  transistor,  the  coaxial  cable  and  direct 
distance  dialing. 

Working  together,  we've  created  entirely  new  communi- 
cation systems.  Like  our  latest  switching  machine  that  can 
route  550,000  calls  an  hour. 

At  the  same  time,  we're  constantly  improving  existing 
systems.  Like  tripling  the  capacity  of  our  major  microwave  radio 
system  in  the  last  ten  years. 

Even  the  standard  telephone  that  you  probably  think  never 
changes  has  had  virtually  every  major  part  improved  since  1972 

In  fact,  we've  made  more  than  2,500  improvements  in  your 
phone  in  the  last  twenty-five  years. 

Not  just  to  make  it  look  different.  But  to  make  it  work  better. 

And  to  keep  its  cost  down. 

Improvements  like  these  don't  just  happen. 

The  Bell  System  invests  more  than  $750  million  a  year 
in  research  and  development. 

As  an  outgrowth,  we  receive  an  average  of  more  than 
two  patents  every  working  day.  And  nearly  half  the  things 
Western  Electric  will  make  this  year  didn't  even 
exist  four  years  ago. 

In  the  next  10  years,  we  plan  to 
expand  the  capacity  of  the  telephone 
network  as  much  as  we  have  in  the 
past  100  years. 

To  keep  this  network  operating  and 
growing  takes  the  innovative  teamwork 
of  Bell  Labs  and  Western  Electric. 

The  kind  of  innovative  teamwork 
that  makes  us  say: 

One  Bell  System.  It  works. 


-t   i 


DUR  NEXT  PHONE  CALL 


Bell  Labs 
Western  Electric 


/A    "  x**« 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1952 


1948 


Norman  L  Diegoli  received  a  25-year 
Award  of  Merit  from  the  American 
Association  of  State  Highway  and 
Transportation  Officials  in  January.  He  serves 
as  deputy  chief  engineer  of  maintenance  with 
the  Massachusetts  Department  of  Public 
Works.  .  .  .  John  G.  FitzPatrick  holds  the 
position  of  assistant  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  Lenox  China,  Linwood,  N.J. 
...  Dr.  Myron  E.  Lunchick  owns  SEACO  in 
Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  .  Albert  J.  Merlini  has 
been  appointed  an  associate  professor  in  the 
math  and  science  department  at  Vocational- 
Technical  College  in  Laconia,  N.H.  Previously 
he  taught  in  the  electrical  engineering 
department  at  UNH.  He  has  also  served  as 
staff  supervisor  to  the  director  of  engineering 
at  AVCO  Systems  Division,  Wilmington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Wesson  C.  Miller  is  a  general 
agent  at  Provident  Life  &  Accident  Insurance 
Co.  in  West  Hartford,  Conn. 


1949 


Dean  P.  Amidon  and  Francis  W.  Holden 

recently  received  25-year  Awards  of  Merit 
from  the  American  Association  of  State 
Highway  and  Transportation  Officials. 
Amidon  is  a  highway  engineer  in  District  I 
(Pittsfield)  of  the  Massachusetts  Department 
of  Public  Works.  Holden  is  a  research  and 
materials  engineer  with  the  DPW.  .  .  . 
Maurice  Nirenstein  works  for  Ebasco 
Services  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Claude  F. 
Veraa  has  joined  Pallace,  Inc.,  Silver  Spring, 
Md. 


1950 


Edward  L.  Ahlstrom  has  joined  Stone  & 
Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  John  F.  Gallagher 
was  recently  awarded  a  25-year  Award  of 
Merit  by  the  American  Associatidn  of  State 
Highway  and  Transportation  Officials.  He  is  a 
project  development  engineer  with  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public  Works. 


.  .  .  William  C.  Griggs  is  president  of  W.C. 
Griggs,  Inc.,  Lakewood,  Colorado.  .  .  . 
Richard  F.  Johnson,  Jr.  serves  as  senior 
product  engineer  at  Terry  Steam  Turbine  in 
Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  James  W.  Marston 
works  for  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  Air 
Pollution  Control  Division  in  Campton, 
N.H. ... 


1951 


Carl  E.  Johansson  has  been  employed  by 
Rachelle  Laboratories,  Long  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Thomas  M.  June  was  recently  named 
manager  of  the  building  materials  department 
of  the  organic  materials  division  of  Koppers 
Company,  inc.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He  will 
supervise  sales  and  marketing  of  built-up 
roofing  and  roof  maintenance  materials  for 
building  and  architectural  applications.  In 
1951  he  joined  the  firm  as  a  cadet  engineer 
and  later  held  several  management  positions 
in  the  division.  Prior  to  his  latest  promotion 
he  was  chemical  group  production  manager. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Wood 
Preservers'  Association  and  the  Professional 
Engineers  Society  of  West  Virginia.  .  .  . 
Duncan  W.  Munro,  superintendent  of 
Mount  Auburn  Cemetery,  Cambridge,  Mass., 
has  been  elected  first  vice  president  of  the 
American  Cemetery  Association.  The  post 
includes  membership  on  the  executive 
committee.  Munro  has  served  as  director, 
secretary  and  second  vice  president  of  AC  A 
and  has  written  many  articles  for  technical 
journals.  .  .  .  Vartkes  K.  Sohigian  is  now 
director  of  industrial  relations  for  the 
Simonds  Cutting  Tool  Division  of  Wallace 
Murray  Corp.  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  planning,  developing  and 
coordinating  programs  to  meet  the  division's 
personnel  goals  and  objectives  of  improving 
organization  results.  Sohigian,  who  began  at 
Simonds  in  1971,  will  be  involved  with  career 
planning,  labor  relations,  and 
communications.  .  .  .  Joseph  S.  Vitalis,  Jr. 
is  with  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  in  Washington,  D.C.  From  1972  to 
1974  he  served  as  mayor  of  Crestwood, 
Missouri. 


Prof.  Robert  Goff  has  been  named  assoil 
dean  of  the  College  of  Engineering  at  the 
University  of  Rhode  Island.  Since  1953  h(i< 
been  a  member  of  the  department  of 
mechanical  engineering  and  applied 
mechanics.  In  1967  he  was  promoted  to 
associate  professor.  .  .  .  Currently  RoberU 
Meyer  is  a  senior  manufacturing  engineer 
Martin  Marietta  Corp.  in  New  Orleans,  La, 
"Buzz"  Moore  recently  formed  his  own 
sales  representation  company,  Castle  Mo<3 
Associates,  Inc.,  in  Ridgewood,  N.J.  His  "n 
serves  the  process  equipment  industry. 


1953 


Richard  R.  Carlson  is  a  project  engineerl 

Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass.  i 
also  holds  the  post  of  vice  chairman  of  th|; 
Worcester  Chapter  of  the  American  Socief 
for  Metals.  .  .  .  Robert  Eisenberg  is  a  sell 
employed  computer  consultant  in  West 
Paterson,  N.J.  .  .  .  Charles  Home  has  ben 
named  needle  bearing  group  quality  contr, 
manager  at  Torrington,  (Conn.)  Co.  In  19Ej 
he  joined  the  company  as  a  bearing  design 
and  became  application  engineer  in  1969. 
Subsequently  he  was  named  chief  applicai 
engineer.  .  .  .  Simplatrol  Products  Corp.,  a| 
subsidiary  of  Formsprag  Company,  has 
moved  from  Auburn  (Mass.)  to  Webster. 
Herbert  S.  Peterson  holds  the  post  of 
president  at  the  firm.  .  .  .  David  T. 
VanCovern  left  Exxon  after  21  years  to 
become  corporate  vice  president  of  Rowe 
Corporation  in  Charlotte,  N.C.  His  firm  is  £ 
holding  company  with  member  companies 
operating  in  several  different  construction 
and  manufacturing  fields.  .  .  .  S.M.  Versh 
is  director  of  finance  in  the  foam  and  plast 
division  at  Tenneco  Chemicals  Co.,  Parami 
N.J. 


1954 


Lee  W.  Catineau  is  with  Reynolds 
Securities,  Inc.,  in  Boston.  .  .  .  William  H. 
Hills,  president  of  Hills  Research  & 
Development,  Inc.,  Melbourne,  Fla.,  also 
serves  as  president  of  Cryo-Line,  Inc.,  whic 
manufactures  Dam-it  pipe  freezing  tool.  .  . 
George  H.  Kay,  Jr.  works  for  GTE  Sylvan 
in  Needham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  .  Harry  L. 
Mirick  has  been  named  vice  president  for 
operations  at  Time  Computer,  Inc.,  Lancasi 
Pa.  Previously  he  was  with  Hamilton  Watcl 
Co.  and  IBM.  .  .  .  Wilfred  F.  Taylor,  who 
self-employed  at  Crowell  &  Taylor  Corp., 
Yarmouthport,  Mass.,  writes  that  his  oldest 
son,  Robert,  is  now  attending  WPI.  .  .  . 
Richard  H.  Wheelock  is  sales  manager  at 
Topaz  Electronics,  a  subsidiary  of  Intermark, 
Inc.,  San  Diego,  Calif. 


A14  ,v  Apnl  /'//'       WPI  Journal 


?55 


1958 


1960 


aert  L.  Chang  is  with  the  Aernutronic 
p.,  a  subsidiary  of  Ford  Motor  Co.  in  Palo 
),  Calif.  .  .  .  Lawrence  F.  Dennis 
;ently  serves  as  a  deputy  director  of 
duct  assurance  at  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J. 
Brian  J.  Kelly  holds  the  position  of 
sion  operations  manager  at  Bell 
jphone  in  Pittsburgh.  .  .  .  Richard  J. 
:ey  works  for  Teredyne,  Inc.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
vin  F.  Nesman  is  an  electronic  engineer 
A\T.  .  .  .  Currently  Martin  A.  Rafferty  is 
ior  engineering  supervisor  for  Esso 
ndard  Libya,  Inc.,  Tripoli,  Libya.  .  .  . 
nald  F.  Zwiers  serves  as  chief  engineer  at 
nlite  Corp.  in  Joliet,  III. 


?56 


jert  R.  Baer,  who  was  recently  in 
lagement  and  marketing  services  on  the 
;t  Coast,  has  completed  his  postgraduate 
lagement  program  at  UCLA.  He  is 
,ing  forward  to  the  prospect  of  returning 
he  East  Coast  and  a  long-term  assignment 
larketing,  sales,  or  training. 


?57 


rray  A.  Cappers,  Jr.  works  as  a 
sultant  for  Allied  Chemical  in  Morristown, 
....  Seymour  L.  Friedman  owns  Tri-K 
jstries,  Westwood,  N.J.  .  .  .  David  W. 
>kinson  was  recently  named  vice 
;ident  of  operations  at  United  Illuminating 
lew  Haven,  Conn.  (He  succeeds 
;smate  Leon  Morgan,  who  was 
noted  to  executive  vice  president.)  He 
sd  the  firm  in  1957  and  was  later 
ointed  superintendent  of  Steel  Point 
:ion.  He  was  vice  chairman  of  the  New 
en  Chapter  of  ASME  and  is  a  director  of 
Quinnipiac  Council,  BSA.  He  is  also  past 
;ident  of  the  Hamden  Youth  Hockey 
ociation  and  the  Connecticut  Hockey 
ference. 

arl  J.  Kennen,  SIM,  has  been  appointed 
erintendent  of  the  Coes  Knife  Co., 
rcester.  He  has  been  with  the  company 
30  years.  .  .  .  Richard  F.  Moore  is  chief 
ineer  at  FAG  Bearings  Corp.,  Stamford, 
in.  .  .  .  Leon  A.  Morgan  now  holds  the 
/  position  of  executive  vice  president  of 
rations  engineering  and  customer  services 
Jnited  Illuminating,  New  Haven,  Conn.  He 
an  work  at  U I  in  1957  as  an  assistant 
ineer  and  rose  to  vice  president  of 
•rations  in  1973.  A  registered  professional 
ineer,  he  is  also  a  member  of  the 
erican  Management  Association.  He  has 
n  affiliated  with  the  North  Branford 
nn.)  Economic  Development  Foundation, 
Jaycees,  and  BSA,  which  he  serves  as 
ictor.  .  .  .  Charles  M.  Stasey  holds  the 
t  of  director  of  engineering  at  Advanced 
tals  Research  in  Bedford,  Mass. 


Gary  C.  Blodgett  was  recently  appointed 
manager  of  igniter  products  for  Norton 
Company's  Industrial  Ceramics  Division.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  the  manufacture  and 
marketing  of  the  division's  new  silicon 
carbide  igniter,  part  of  a  direct  electrical 
ignition  system  used  to  replace  pilot  lights  in 
gas  appliances.  Since  joining  Norton  in  1959, 
he  has  held  several  engineering  and 
management  positions.  He  holds  an  MBA 
from  Clark.  .  .  .  Charles  B.  Cushman  is  with 
Pedersen  Golf,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  David 
B.  Denniston  is  marketing  manager  of 
customer  service  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp. 
in  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Anthony  J. 
DiGiovanni  serves  as  general  superintendent 
at  Boston  Gas  Co.  .  .  .  Jasper  Freese  of 
Freese  Engineering  is  located  in  Greeley, 
Colo.  .  .  .  Robert  Jacobson  currently  serves 
as  a  market  representative  for  IBM  in 
Hamden,  Conn. 

James  J.  Johnson  continues  with  New 
Jersey  Bell  Telephone  in  Camden,  N.J.  where 
he  is  presently  area  plant  manager.  .  .  .  John 
H.  Porter  is  with  AMS  Associates  in  Darien, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Stewart  L.  Staples  of  Staples 
Building  &  Development,  Inc.,  is  located  in 
Tucson,  Ariz.  .  .  .  George  F.  Walker,  SIM, 
has  been  promoted  to  vice  president  of 
administration  at  Johnson  Steel  and  Wire, 
Inc.,  Worcester.  He  will  be  responsible  for 
industrial  relations,  purchasing,  traffic  and 
engineering.  Previously  he  had  been 
production  manager,  production 
superintendent,  and  director  of  industrial 
relations  and  personnel.  .  .  .  Robert  F.  Wolff 
holds  the  post  of  manager  of  the  systems 
operations  department  at  Consolidated 
Edison  in  New  York  City. 


1959 


Anthony  E.  Engstrom  is  manager  at  Fox  & 
Carskadon  in  San  Rafael,  Calif.  ...  Dr.  David 
A.  Evensen,  who  recently  left  TRW,  is  now 
employed  by  J.H.  Wiggins  Co.,  Redondo 
Beach,  Calif.  He  has  written  over  40  technical 
papers,  the  most  recent  being  "Vibration 
Analysis  of  Multisymmetric  Structures" 
which  will  appear  in  an  upcoming  issue  of 
the  AIAA  Journal.  The  Evensens  reside  in 
Torrance,  Calif.  .  .  .  Oscar  H.  Hawley  serves 
as  principal  at  Sayre  School,  Lexington,  Ky. 
.  .  .  William  R.  Schnitzler  works  for  U.S. 
Surgical  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Edwin  D. 
Tenney  is  a  product  manager  in  the  Buell 
Emission  Control  Division  of  Envirotech 
Corp.,  Lebanon,  Pa.  .  .  .  William  C. 
Whitehead  is  employed  by  Harris  Corp.  in 
Palm  Bay,  Fla.  .  .  .  Ernest  F.  Woodtli  has 
joined  GE  in  Valley  Forge,  Pa. 


Robert  W.  Jebens  is  with  RCA  Lab., 
Princeton,  N.J.  .  .  .  John  F.  Kirkpatrick  is  a 
system  consultant  with  System  Resources, 
Inc.  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  .  .  .  Alexander 
J.  Kowalewski  holds  the  post  of 
engineering  manager  at  Hooker  Chemical 
Corp.,  Burlington,  N.J.  .  .  .  Formerly  chief 
engineer  of  the  Mattabassett  District  (New 
Britain,  Conn,  area),  Stanley  L.  Kubas  is 
now  director  of  plant  operations  and 
maintenance  for  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee, 
Inc.,  Boston.  He  will  be  responsible  for 
scheduling  operations,  staffing,  operational 
start-up,  and  maintenance  services  for 
multimillion  dollar  water  and  waste  water 
facilities.  .  .  .  Peter  A.  Lajoie  serves  as  sales 
manager  of  the  Trump-Ross  Division  of 
Datametrics,  a  subsidiary  of  ITE  Imperial  in 
North  Billerica,  Mass.  .  .  .  Donald 
MacMillan  is  with  Instrumentation  Lab., 
Lexington,  Mass.,  and  Bruce  A. 
MacPhetres  is  an  inventory  and  cost 
engineer  in  economic  studies  for  New 
England  Telephone  in  Boston.  ...  Dr. 
Ronald  J.  Richard,  assistant  professor  of 
physics  at  Benedictine  College,  received  his 
PhD  in  astronomy  from  UCLA  in  December. 
He  earned  his  MA  in  astronomy  at  UCLA 
and  his  MS  in  aeronautics  and  astronautics 
from  the  University  of  Michigan.  Prior  to 
joining  Benedictine  in  1970,  he  was  with 
Clevite  Transistor  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
Later  he  helped  design  spacecraft  trajectories 
for  the  Ranger,  Surveyor  and  Mariner 
missions,  while  he  was  at  the  Jet  Propulsion 
Lab.  in  Pasadena,  Calif.  Dr.  Richard  won  a 
NASA  traineeship  to  work  on  his  doctorate. 
He  has  written  numerous  published  reports 
and  articles.  .  .  .  Presently  Bernard  L. 
Tetreault  holds  the  post  of  executive 
director  of  the  Housing  Opportunities 
Commission  of  Montgomery  County,  Silver 
Spring,  Md. 


1961 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Henry  P.  Allessio. 
their  first  son,  Henry  Paul,  on  August  12, 
1975.  The  Allessios  also  have  two  daughters. 
Hank  is  with  William  E.  Hill  &  Co.,  Inc.,  New 
York  City. 

John  Buckley  of  Buckley  &  Co., 
Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.,  conducted  a  seminar, 
"New  Product-Service  Planning  and 
Development"  at  Bentley  College  in  Waltham 
in  January.  The  seminar  was  the  first  of  a 
series  of  14  one-day  programs  sponsored  by 
the  Smaller  Business  Association  of  New 
England,  Inc.  ...  Dr.  Jack  Gabarro,  who 
teaches  in  the  MBA  program  at  Harvard 
Business  School,  is  also  head  of  the  faculty 
group  teaching  Human  Behavior  in 
Organizations.  Recently  he  has  been  serving 
as  a  director  of  Town  and  Country  Jewelry 
Manufacturing,  acting  as  an  adviser  to  the 
NSF's  outside  evaluation  team  on  the  WPI 
Plan,  and  doing  consulting  work.  He,  his 
wife,  Marilyn,  and  daughter,  Jana,  live  in 
Cambridge.  .  .  .  Charles  R.  Mixer  is 
engineering  sections  head  for  Sperry  Systems 
Management  in  Great  Neck,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Herbert  S.  Moores  serves  as  town  engineer 
in  Newburgh,  N.Y. 


WPI  Journal  I  February -April  1976  I A15 


Technology  At  Texas  Instruments, 

it  is  the  foundation  of  a  double  goal:  Produce 

better  products.  Produce  them  economically. 


^   ^»    &    ■■' 


Personal  programming  is  here. 

Now  problems  that  once  took  hours 

can  be  solved  in  seconds. 


Some  of  the  toughest,  most  com- 
plicated mathematical  problems 
you  can  possibly  encounter  are 
being  solved  in  seconds  on  a  pro- 
grammable calculator  you  can 
hold  in  your  hand  and  carry  on 
your  hip.  It's  the  way  complex 
problems  are  getting  solved  now 
—  and  it'll  be  the  way  for  years. 
That's  why  you're  ready  for  a 
programmable  right  now.  Be- 
cause you're  on  the  threshold  of 
a  career.  You  need  every  edge 
you  can  get.  And,  a  program- 
mable is  indeed  a  big  edge, 
whether  you  stay  on  campus  for 
a  couple  of  years,  or  soon  leave 
to  join  industry.  Because  it  does 
more  for  you  than  just  get  an- 
swers. It  lets  you  respond  to  the 
pressures  of  making  accurate 
decisions  faster.  You  can  cope 
with  masses  of  data.  Optimize 
mathematical  models.  Perform 
statistical  reductions.  Develop 
broad  "what  if"  matrices.  Ana- 
lyze trends.  The  list  could  go  on. 

Is  programming  difficult?  Abso- 
lutely not.  It's  really  no  more 
than  a  calculator's  capability 
to:  Learn  what  you  teach  it. 
Remember  what  you  want  it  to. 
And  automatically  execute  the 
series  of  steps,  or  respond  to  the 
decisions  you  put  into  it. 

Most  of  the  important  deci- 
sion-making functions  found  on 
computers  are  available  on 
TI  programmables:  Looping. 
Branching.  Flags.  Sub-routines. 
Yet  there's  no  special  language 
to  learn.  TI's  full  Algebraic 
Operating  System  (AOS)  is  nat- 
ural—left-to-right. It's  easy  to 
use,  and  so  flexible  that  you  can 
apply  it  to  your  own  personal 
problem  solving  techniques. 

SR-52.  Card  programmable 
$395* 

Offers   twice   the   capability  of 
the  only  other  programmable  in 
its  class  —  at  half  the  price.! 
Records  up  to  224  keystrokes 


on  reusable  magnetic  cards.  Has 
20  user  memories.  Preprogram- 
med card  libraries  are  available 
which  can  be  integrated  into 
your  problem  solving  routines. 
Repeat  a  program  as  often  as 
needed.  Change  values.  Explore 
"what  if"  possibilities. 

Enter  calculations  exactly  as 
stated  — left-to-right.  Nine  levels 
of  parentheses,  plus  an  11- 
register  stack  handle  problems 
with  up  to  10  pending  operations. 

Literally  teach  the  SR-52  your 
own  calculating  methods.  Key  in 
your  program  directly  from  the 
keyboard.  If  you  wish,  record 
your  program  on  a  magnetic  card 
to  use  again  and  again.  Used 
manually,  the  SR-52  is  one  of  the 
most  powerful  handheld,  slide 
rule  calculators  available  today. 

A  Basic  Library  of  16  programs 
comes  with  the  SR-52.  Optional 


SR-50Aand 
SR-51A  offer 
exceptional 
.  slide  rule 
math  power 
and  value. 

1     I 

• 1 

as    no* 

ME48      JOS 

ant    ar* 

■ ■    n 

|; ' 

j    E3    "•     ."     "'.    O     ! 
|     K»                  -      KJ 

ii    n   a  d 

KB     80S     XX    S3 

mm    mm    mm-ra   \ 
in  ■  an 

SR-50A    $79 
tion,    on-th 
featuring    a 
with  sum-of 
bility.    Perf< 
hyperbolic  i 
e  to  the  x  po 
y  and  much  i 

SR-51A 
forms  all  fu 
on  the  SR-E 
Mean,  varis 
dard  deviat 
tion.  Slope 
Trend  line  a 
ear  regressi 
programme 
and  inverses 

.95*  I 
e-go 
lgebr; 
-prodi 
)rms 
?uncti 
wer,  x 
Tiore. 
$119. 
nctio 
»0A,  a 
tnce  c 
ion.  I 
and  ii 
nalysi 
on.  H. 
d  con 

"ull  func- 
portable 
lie    entry 
icts  capa- 
trig    and 
ons,  logs, 
th  root  of 

95*    Per- 
ns found 
nd  more: 
ind  stan- 
'ermuta- 
itercept. 
s  and  Un- 
as 20  pre- 
versions 

libraries  containing  extensive 
programs  in  engineering,  math, 
statistics,  finance,  etc.,  are  also 
available. 

SR-56.  Super  slide  rule 
with  key  programming. 
$179.95* 

The  ideal  student  program- 
mable. No  programmable  is 
easier  to  master.  Use  up  to  100 
programming  steps  with  10  user 
memories,  nine  levels  of  paren- 
theses, plus  an  eight-register 
stack  that  handles  up  to  seven 
pending  operations.  Add,  sub- 
tract, multiply,  divide  within  a 
register  without  affecting  the 
calculation  in  progress. 

Two  unique  features.  A  special 
test  register  permits  comparison 
with  the  displayed  value  at  any 
point  in  a  calculation  — without 
interfering  with  what's  in  pro- 
gress. A  pause  key  keeps  the 
display  visible  for  Vk-second  dur- 
ing program  execution.  It  also 
lets  you  go  through  a  problem 
one  step  at  a  time. 

Supply  the  input  data,  then 
execute  the  solution  of  a  stored 
sequence  automatically.  Get  an- 
swers without  the  tedium  of 
remembering  and  pressing  keys 
repetitively.  Three  uncondition- 
al branches  and  six  conditional 
branches  — which  includes  four 
levels  of  subroutine  and  two  loop 
control  instructions  —  give  the 
SR-56  great  decision  making 
power. 

An  Applications  Book  contain- 
ing over  50  programs  in  math, 
electrical  engineering,  finance, 
statistics,  surveying,  etc.  comes 
with  an  SR-56. 

For  more  details  on  TI's  pro- 
grammables the  SR-52  or  SR-56. 
Or,  economical  slide-rule  calcu- 
lators-SR-51  A,  SR-50A.  Write 
Texas  Instruments 
P.O.  Box  22013  CE,  ^J  d[t 

M/S  358,  Dallas,  X 

Texas  75222. 


"Suggested  retail  price. 
(Based  on  suggested  retail  prices  of 
models  at  the  time  of  this  printing . 


Texas  Instruments 

INCORPORATED 


©1976  Texas  Instruments  Incorporated 
66015 


Moussit  Noradoukian  has  joined 
Timeplex,  Inc.  in  Hackensack,  N.J.  .  .  .  Paul 
E.  Nordborg  is  with  Management  Recruiters 
in  Nashua,  N.H.  ...  Dr.  Erik  W.  Pottala,  an 
electrical  engineering  lecturer  at  the 
University  of  Maryland  and  staff  engineer 
with  the  Laboratory  of  Applied  Studies,  has 
constructed  a  working  model  of  the  human 
nerve  cell,  the  neuron.  The  model,  stimulated 
by  messages  transmitted  by  tiny  computers, 
reacts  exactly  as  a  human  (animal)  neuron 
would  react  in  sensing  and  initiating  muscular 
movements  of  the  body.  It  is  expected  that 
the  model  will  be  invaluable  in  the  research 
of  the  human  nervous  system  and  its 
diseases.  .  .  .  John  A.  Quagliaroli,  president 
of  F.L.  Mannix  &  Company,  Inc.,  Wellesley, 
Mass.,  recently  graduated  from  Harvard 
Business  School's  Program  for  Management 
Development.  .  .  .  Joseph  W.  Simonis  has 
been  promoted  to  engineering  and 
construction  manager  for  the  northern 
division  of  General  Telephone  Co.  of  Ohio. 
After  graduating  from  West  Point  and  serving 
as  a  captain  in  Vietnam,  he  joined  General 
Telephone  in  1970.  He  is  a  professional 
engineer.  .  .  .  Robert  Zimmerman  works  for 
Acme  Plumbing  in  Hartford,  Conn. 


1962 


Dr.  Charles  F.  Belanger  has  been  granted 
courtesy  staff  privileges  in  pediatrics  and 
family  practice  at  Worcester's  Hahnemann 
Hospital.  He  is  a  member  of  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  School  of  Medicine  faculty. 
.  .  .  Arthur  E.  Dobreski  now  holds  the 
position  of  manager  of  plant  engineering  and 
maintenance  at  West  End  Brewing  Co., 
Utica,  N.Y.  The  Dobreskis  and  their  three 
children,  Michael,  12,  Kathleen,  9,  and 
Maureen,  5,  have  moved  into  a  100-year-old 
house  in  Clinton,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Presently  Richard 
W.  Frost  serves  as  assistant  district 
supervisor  for  Massachusetts  Electric  in 
Lowell.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Hansen  has  joined 
Northrop  Corp.  in  Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Joseph  D.  LeBlanc  is  director  of  technical 
services  at  Central  Maine  Power  Co.  in 
Augusta. 

Continuing  with  Gillette  Safety  Razor  Co., 
Boston,  Howard  L.  McGill,  Jr.  currently 
holds  the  post  of  production  manager.  .  .  . 
Edmund  B.  Pyle  III  is  manager  of  preclinical 
and  biostatistics  data  systems  at  Smith  Kline 
Corp.  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  William  J. 
Shepherd  is  a  sales  representative  for 
Rapidata,  Inc.  in  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
Stephen  M.  Wells  continues  with  ITT 
where  he  is  now  manager  of  organization 
planning  for  the  firm  in  New  York  City.  He 
was  recently  transferred  from  St.  Louis.  .  .  . 
Stanley  M.  Wilbur  is  vice  president  at 
Webster-Martin,  Inc.,  South  Burlington,  Vt. 


iamesbury 

0  manufacturers  of 

^■^  Double-Seal  ©Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere®  Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


1963 


Donald  L.  Chaffee  has  joined  Litton 
Industries  in  Van  Nuys,  Calif.  .  .  .  Alberto  D. 
DeLima  works  for  Crescent  Construction  in 
West  Caldwell,  N.J.  .  .  .  Stephen  D. 
Donahue,  Jr.  still  with  Procter  &  Gamble,  is 
presently  plant  industrial  engineer  at  the 
firm's  detergent  factory  at  Mataro 
(Barcelona)  Spain.  .  .  .  Henry  A. 
Dowgielewicz  is  employed  by  Virginia 
Electric  &  Power  Co.  in  Richmond.  .  .  . 
Francis  Dusza,  SIM,  has  been  named 
manager  of  manufacturing  processing  at 
Russell  Harrington  Cutlery  Co.  in 
Southbridge,  Mass.  He  has  been  with  the 
firm  for  34  years.  .  .  .  Formerly  a  systems 
analyst  for  Blue  Cross-Blue  Shield, 
Lawrence  N.  Escott  now  holds  the  same 
position  at  Lane  Bryant,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 
...  Dr.  Robert  H.  Gowdy  is  an  assistant 
professor  in  the  department  of  physics  and 
astronomy  at  the  University  of  Maryland.  .  .  . 
Major  Herbert  W.  Head,  U.S.  Army,  is 
currently  located  in  Alexandria,  Va.  .  .  . 
Edward  J.  Kalinowski  is  manager  of 
European  requirements  and  planning  for  the 
Elizabeth  Arden  division  of  Eli  Lilly 
International  Corp.  in  London,  England. 
James  D.  Keating  serves  as  a  senior 
marketing  representative  for  IBM  in  Hamden, 
Conn.  The  Keatings  have  four  daughters, 
from  5  to  11  years  of  age.  .  .  .  Following  the 
receipt  of  his  PhD  from  Boston  University, 
Dr.  Joseph  R.  Mancuso  has  been  promoted 
to  the  rank  of  associate  professor  of 
management  engineering  at  WPI.  Recently 
he  was  elected  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  ARP  Instruments,  Newton, 
Mass.,  Polyform  Industries,  Westboro,  and 
the  Frank  E.  Sessions  Company  of 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  Chevron  Oil 
Company,  Roger  C.  McGee  is  now  staff 
analyst  for  the  firm  in  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  . 
Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr.,  projects  director  at 
WPI,  has  been  named  business  manager  at 
Alden  Labs.  The  new  post  is  a  part-time 
position  and  he  will  continue  as  projects 
director.  ...  A.  Edward  Scherer  has  been 
promoted  to  manager  of  licensing  for  nuclear 
power  systems  in  the  power  systems  group 
of  Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor, 
Conn.  He  will  direct  the  efforts  required  to 


gain  government  regulatory  licenses, 
authorizations  and  permits  for  all  nuclear 
steam  supply  systems  and  fuel  ordered  fnn  I 
the  firm.  Scherer  joined  C-E  in  1968  and  tB  I 
held  reactor  design  and  project  engineerir    I 
positions,  most  recently  serving  as  supervor 
of  licensing  standards.  A  registered 
professional  engineer,  he  belongs  to  the    i 
American  Nuclear  Society,  ASME,  and 
Sigma  Xi.  .  .  .  Dennis  E.  Snay  was  recenr  • 
appointed  division  marketing  manager  in    I 
Worcester  for  Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  6 
started  with  the  utility  in  1963  in  Maiden  ad 
has  been  district  marketing  manager  in 
Marlboro.  He  is  a  registered  professional    i 
engineer. 


1964 


Arthur  R.  Bodwell  has  joined  Samuel  S.  I 
Graham  Co.,  Hanover,  N.J.  .  .  .  Richard  C 
DeLong,  SIM,  is  now  manager  of  productl 
engineering  at  Bay  State  Abrasives,  Dressel 
Industries,  Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass.  He  startel 
with  the  company  as  a  product  engineering 
trainee  in  1952  and  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer.  .  .  .  David  A.  Dimo  a 
serves  as  an  electronics  engineer  with  the  I 
U.S.  Postal  Service  in  Rockville,  Md.  ...    J 
Currently  William  Dowd  holds  the  post  ofl 
vice  president  of  the  grocery  products  grotl 
at  Heublein  (food  and  alcoholic  beverages)! 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Charles  Ennis  has  beJ 
promoted  to  associate  professor  at  Thamesl 
Valley  State  Technical  College  in  Norwich,  I 
Conn.  A  registered  professional  engineer,  hj 
was  an  electrical  and  project  engineer  for  tl 
Rogers  Corp.  prior  to  joining  the  college  in  I 
1968.  .  .  .  Stephen  J.  McCabe,  SIM,  was! 
recently  appointed  director  of  manufacturin 
for  Norton  Company's  coated  abrasive 
division.  He  will  direct  the  start-up  aspects 
and  line  management  for  the  division's  new 
coated  abrasive  plant  in  Brownsville,  Texas 
and  for  all  coated  abrasive  divison  conversi< 
operations.  He  joined  Norton  in  1957  as  a 
manufacturing  control  engineer. 


A  18  WPI  Journal 


Stephen  G.  O'Brian  holds  the  position  of 
lior  engineer  at  Analytics,  Inc.  in  McLean, 
.  .  .  .  Michael  P.  Penti,  project  manager 

IMPS  Construction  Co.,  Craig,  Colo.,  is 
olved  in  construction  of  two  500  MW 
jl-fired  power  plants.  .  .  .  Brian  Sinder 
rks  for  Picker  Corp.  in  New  Haven,  Conn. 
.  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Inc.,  Boston, 
;  promoted  Peter  J.  Tancredi  from 
iject  manager  to  project  director.  His 
ponsibilities  include  the  design  of  more 
in  32.5  miles  of  sanitary  intercepting  and 
rm  sewers  for  the  city  and  county  of 
nver,  Colo.  The  estimated  cost  of  the 
iject  is  $23  million.  Tancredi  joined  the 
Vs  Boston  office  in  1970  and  was 
isferred  as  a  project  manager  to  Denver  in 
'4.  He  belongs  to  ASCE  and  the  Rocky 
untain  Section  of  the  Water  Pollution 
itrol  Association.  ...  Dr.  Elliot  F.  Wyner 

physicist  for  GTE  Sylvania,  Inc.  in 
ivers,  Mass. 


1966 


)65 


lip  G.  Baker  was  recently  promoted  to 
icipal  engineer  in  the  product  engineering 
sion  at  Polaroid  Corporation,  Cambridge, 
as.  .  .  .  Walter  Chang  has  joined  General 
;tric  Co.,  Lynn,  Mass.,  as  project  engineer 
l  the  aircraft  engine  group.  His 
Donsibility  involves  the  flight  test  program 
he  F-18  Navy  fighter  plane  engine.  .  .  . 
/  G.  Cornelius,  Jr.  was  appointed 
■ctor  of  support  services  in  the  Newton 
iss.)  public  schools.  Previously  he  was  a 
ior  supervising  estimator  at  Stone  & 
bster,  Boston,  where  he  was  in  charge  of 
mating  for  several  nuclear  power  plants. 
974  he  received  his  MBA  from  Boston 
versity.  .  .  .  Leonard  G.  Feldman,  who 
ed  the  Construction  Products  Division  of 
3.  Grace  &  Co.  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  as  a 
lity  assurance  engineer  in  1974,  has  been 
•noted  to  quality  control  manager  for  its 
ding  and  horticultural  product  lines.  Earlier 
was  a  chemist  with  Itek  Corp.,  Lexington 

a  quality  control  engineer  for  Precision 
itrol  Products  in  Waltham.  He  is  active  in 

American  Society  for  Testing  and 
:erials  and  the  American  Society  for 
ility  Control. 

'hilip  D.  Giantris  is  manager  of 
ironmental  engineering  at  Metcalf  &  Eddy, 
,  DesPlaines,  III.  .  .  .  Russell  Koelsch, 
d  was  with  Gilbert  Associates,  Inc.,  in 
iding,  Pa.,  for  51/2  years,  is  looking 
ward  to  his  new  position  as  a  senior 
lineer  for  the  power  division  of  C.F.  Braun 
'o.  in  Alhambra,  Calif.  .  .  .  James  F.  Mills 
rks  for  Foster  Grant  Co.  in  Manchester, 
^.  .  .  .  Dr.  Thomas  Moriarty  is  associate 
fessor  in  the  school  of  architecture  at  the 
versity  of  Tennessee  in  Knoxville.  .  .  . 
ott  Sargent,  SIM,  has  been  elected 
ltroller  and  assistant  treasurer  of  Morgan 
nstruction  Co.,  Worcester.  He  has  been 
h  Morgan  for  18  years.  He  is  a  director  of 
jndly  House  and  a  member  of  the 
ancial  Executives  Institute  and  the  Risk 
i  Insurance  Management  Society.  .  .  . 
thony  A.  Smalarz  works  for  Kratos  in 
>adena,  Calif.  .  .  .  Eugene  G.  Sweeney, 

is  a  senior  applications  engineer  at 
draulic  Research  &  Mfg.  Co.,  a  division  of 
rtron  in  Richmond,  Va.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  W. 
wing  is  employed  by  the  Federal  Highway 
ministration  in  Washington,  D.C. 


William  R.  Bond,  Jr.  serves  as  plant 
engineer  at  Chesapeake  Finish  Metals  in 
Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  .  Christopher  G. 
Bradbury  has  been  promoted  to  manager  of 
development  engineering  at  Cumberland 
Engineering  in  Providence,  R.I.  In  his  new 
position  he  will  be  responsible  for  research 
and  development  of  new  products  to  expand 
the  Cumberland  product  line.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1972.  Currently  he  is  completing 
his  MBA  at  Boston  University.  .  .  .  Thomas 
P.  Brasiskis  is  with  Balco,  Inc.,  Newton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  John  H.  Carosella  serves  as  a 
senior  engineer  at  Eastman  Kodak  in 
Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Robert  J.  Coates  works 
as  a  sales  representative  for  the  Torrington 
(Conn.)  Co. 

Capt.  Eugene  R.  Dionne,  manager  of 
launch  vehicle  systems  for  the  Defense 
Meteorological  Satellite  Program  at  the  Air 
Force  Space  and  Missile  Systems 
Organization,  El  Segundo,  Calif.,  recently 
received  the  Roland  R.  Obenland  Junior 
Officer  Engineering  Award  in  ceremonies  at 
El  Segundo.  The  $100  honorarium  and 
citation  is  given  annually  to  recognize  an 
outstanding  contribution  by  a  young  officer 
to  an  engineering  development  effort.  Capt. 
Dionne  was  honored  for  his  role  in  designing 
integration  of  second  and  third  stages  of  a 
launch  vehicle  with  a  new,  advanced  military 
weather  satellite.  The  design  allows  this  new 
larger  satellite  to  be  used  on  the  same  low 
cost  launch  vehicle  previously  used  for 
weather  satellites. 

Formerly  with  the  California  Division  of 
Highways,  Albert  J.  DiPietro  is  now  a 
quality  control  engineer  for  Bechtel  Power 
Corp.  in  Sanatoga,  Pa.  .  .  .  Steven  J.  Erhard 
is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at  GTE 
Laboratories  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Donald 
Morse,  MNS,  has  been  named  director  of 
the  Claremont  extension  evening  program  at 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne  College  of  Antrim,  N.H. 
He  has  had  23  years  experience  in  teaching 
and  school  administration  and  has  done 
graduate  work  at  Harvard,  Purdue,  LSU  and 
UVM.  .  .  .  Oleg  V.  Nedzelnitsky,  Jr. 
currently  is  a  graduate  student  at  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University  in  Pittsburgh.  .  .  .  Stewart 
W.  Nelson  has  become  the  principal  of 
Nelson  Scribner  Associates,  South  Hamilton, 
Mass.  The  firm  has  served  New  England  as 
an  engineering  and  sales  representative 
organization  in  the  field  of  electric  heating 
and  control  since  1964. 

Raymond  G.  O'Connell,  Jr.,  a 
development  engineer  for  Hewlett-Packard, 
was  a  member  of  an  electronics  engineering 
team  which  was  cited  by  Industrial  Research 
magazine  for  designing  a  new  medical 
instrument,  the  HP  oximeter,  described  as 
"one  of  the  best  product  designs  of  the 
year."  The  oximeter  continuously  measures 
oxygen  saturation  in  a  patient's  blood  while 
connected  to  him  only  by  an  earprobe.  The 
instrument  is  expected  to  be  valuable  in 
respiratory  care  with  special  application  in  the 
diagnosis,  care,  and  rehabilitation  of  patients 
with  chronic  lung  disease.  .  .  .  Raymond  J. 
Pavlosky  is  employed  by  the  Department  of 
Defense  in  Ft.  Meade,  Md.  .  .  .  Melvyn  L. 
Sack  has  been  promoted  to  assistant  vice 
president  for  new  products  and  electronic 
funds  transfer  systems  marketing  at  First 
National  City  Bank  in  New  York  City.  .  .  . 


Ronald  A.  Seskevich  is  with  the  Navy 
Department  in  Arlington,  Va.  .  .  .  Donald  G. 
Simpson  owns  S  &  S  Distributors,  Inc., 
Keene,  N.H.  .  .  .  Bruce  Sturtevant  serves  as 
an  analytical  chemist  at  TRW,  Inc., 
Philadelphia.  ...  Dr.  Paul  C.C.  Ting  is  on 
leave  as  a  professor  of  electrical  engineering 
from  the  University  of  New  Brunswick  in 
Fredericton,  N.B.,  Canada. 


1967 


Capt.  Herbert  R.  Brown  III  has  received  his 
master's  degree  at  the  Air  Force  Institute  of 
Technology.  An  honor  graduate  of  the 
aeronautical  engineering  course,  he  is 
remaining  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB  for  duty 
with  a  unit  of  the  Air  Force  Systems 
Command.  ...  Dr.  William  E.  Cobb  is  senior 
resident  and  instructor  in  medicine  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut  Health  Center  in 
Farmington.  In  July  he  will  be  a  fellow  in 
clinical  endocrinology  at  Tufts  University  New 
England  Medical  Center,  Boston.  .  .  .  Joseph 
L.  Ferrantino  continues  at  Monsanto, 
Springfield  (Mass.),  where  he  is  senior 
research  engineer.  .  .  .  Currently  Lawrence 
R.  Gooch,  who  is  with  Farrel  Co.,  holds  the 
posts  of  resident  engineer  and  project 
manager  on  a  processing  line  installation  at 
Chemetron  in  Stockertown,  Pa.  .  .  .  Richard 
G.  Jewell  serves  as  product  engineering 
group  leader  at  Analog  Devices 
Semiconductor  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 

Anthony  F.  Kunsaitis,  Jr.  is  an  assistant 
computer  analyst  for  the  U.S.  Army  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  .  .  .  Russell  A.  Lukes 
works  as  a  computer  system  sales  engineer 
at  Hewlett-Packard  Co.  in  Lexington,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Joseph  J.  Maggi  holds  the  position  of 
senior  tax  accountant  at  Arthur  Andersen  & 
Co.  in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Mukundray  N. 
Patel  has  been  appointed  project  manager  in 
the  project  operations  department  of  Power 
Systems  Services  at  Combustion  Engineering, 
Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn.  He  will  be  responsible 
for  managing  selected  project  contracts. 
Since  joining  the  firm  in  1967,  he  has  held 
various  positions  in  the  construction  services 
department,  most  recently  as  senior 
construction  engineer.  .  .  .  William  F.  Pratt 
is  now  with  South  Central  Bell  Telephone  in 
Hattiesburg,  Miss.  ...  Dr.  John  E.  Sonne 
serves  as  a  veterinarian  in  Syracuse,  N.Y. 


1968 


Married:  Arnold  J.  Antak  and  Miss  Paula  M. 
McGillicuddy  on  December  6,  1975  in 
Wollaston,  Massachusetts.  Ken  Gminski  was 
best  man.  Mrs.  Antak  graduated  from  the 
Chandler  School  for  Women  and  is  employed 
by  State  Street  Research  and  Management 
Co.,  Boston.  Her  husband,  who  received  his 
master's  degree  from  the  University  of  Rhode 
Island,  is  with  Howard,  Needles,  Tammen  &■ 
Bergendoff.  .  .  .  David  P.  Crockett  to  Miss 
Joan  M.  Balzarini  in  Rocky  River,  Ohio  on 
November  29,  1975.  The  bride  graduated 
from  John  Carroll  University,  Cleveland,  and 
is  a  commercial  account  executive  for 
Allstate  Insurance  Co.  The  groom  is  a  sales 
representative  for  Buffalo  Sales  of  Cleveland. 


WPI  Journal  I  February -April  1976  I  A19 


.  .  .  John  W.  Elphinstone  and  Miss  Tillie 
Martinez  last  August.  The  groom  holds  the 
post  of  office  manager  at  L'eggs  Products, 
Inc.  in  Mesilla  Park,  N.M.  .  .  .  Robert  J. 
Horansky  and  Miss  Katherine  Truslow  on 
October  11,  1975  in  New  Britain,  Connecticut. 
Mrs.  Horansky  graduated  from  New  Britain 
High  School.  Her  husband  is  with  Northeast 
Utilities  in  Berlin,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Mark  Hubelbank  to  Miss  Jeanne  C. 
Henderson  on  a  35-foot  sailboat  under  sail 
near  Boston  Harbor  on  September  27,  1975. 
The  bride  received  her  BA  from  Cedar  Crest 
College,  Allentown,  Pa.  and  her  master's 
from  BU.  She  is  a  research  assistant  at 
Harvard  Medical  School  for  Community 
Health.  Her  husband,  who  has  his  doctor  of 
science  degree  from  MIT,  recently  took  part 
in  a  seminar  on  ultrasonics  in  Rotterdam, 
Holland. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Phillip  LaRoe  a 
son.  Christian  Otto,  on  September  18,  1975. 
Phil  is  the  chairman  of  the  science 
department  at  Boys  Town  High  School,  Boys 
Town,  Neb.  In  addition  to  his  duties  as 
chairman,  he  has  added  two  new  courses, 
one  in  astronomy  and  one  in  environment  to 
the  department's  curriculum.  Phil,  his  wife, 
Kathy,  and  their  two  sons  (Lincoln  is  3), 
reside  in  Wahoo,  Neb.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Geoffrey  P.  Tamulonis  a  son,  Phillip,  on 
July  14,  1975.  Currently  Tamulonis  is  a 
system  engineer  on  assignment  in  Jordan  for 
ITT  Space  Communications  of  Ramsey,  N.J. 

George  W.  Cumming,  Jr.  is  a  project 
engineer  for  Missouri  Valley  Inc.  in  Amarillo, 
Texas,  where  a  power  plant  is  under 
construction.  .  .  .  Robert  D.  Hickey 
presently  serves  as  a  senior  systems  analyst 
for  Honeywell  in  McLean,  Va.  Last  year  he 
received  his  MSEE  from  Arizona  State 
University.  Recently  he  was  married  to  Miss 
Charlotte  Daum  of  Glendale,  Arizona.  .  .  . 
Larry  Johnson  is  with  Honeywell 
Information  Systems  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Thomas  M.  Kiely  works  for  Philadelphia 
Suburban  Water  Co.  in  Bryn  Mawr,  Pa.  .  .  . 
Richard  Makohon,  who  received  his 
master's  degree  from  the  University  of 
Alabama  last  year,  is  presently  a  graduate 
student  at  Oregon  State  University  in 
Corvallis.  .  .  .  Robert  Meader  is  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Mobile,  Ala. 
.    John  J.  Orciuch  is  employed  by  Ionics, 
Inc.  in  Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  .  Barrie  M. 
Peterson  works  for  the  Birchwood 
Organization,  Inc.,  Centreville,  Va.  ...  Dr. 
Louis  H.  Strong,  who  received  his  PhD  in 
biophysics  from  the  University  of  Michigan 
last  year,  is  now  at  Harvard  Medical  School 
and  Boston  Biomedical  Institute. 


1969 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Daniel  A.  Lipcan  their 
first  child,  Daniel  Patrick,  on  October  4,  1975. 
Lipcan  is  a  plant  superintendent  at  Boston 
Insulated  Wire  &  Cable  in  Boston. 

William  A.  Chudzik  is  a  graduate  student 
at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
Amherst  Roger  E.  Dennison  of 

Burlington,  Mass.  is  a  self  employed 
consultant  Richard  C.  Furman  serves 

as  a  staff  researcher  for  the  New  England 
Energy  Policy  Council  in  Boston.  Mark 

S   Gerber,  who  received  his  PhD  last  year 
from  Ohio  State  University  in  the  nuclear 


engineering  field,  continues  at  the  university 
in  a  research  position.  His  work  involves 
many  areas,  the  main  research  area  being  the 
development  of  the  instrumentation  for  a 
clinical  gamma  ray  camera  for  use  in  nuclear 
medicine  imaging.  This  work  has  led  to  a 
number  of  publications  including  his 
dissertation.  Gerber  writes:  "I  am  enjoying 
the  academic  life  as  a  non-student  and  hope 
to  stay  in  this  environment  for  many  years  to 
come." 

Currently  Lawrence  Katzman  holds  the 
post  of  principal  engineer  at  Walden 
Research  Division  of  Abcor,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Orenberg  is  a 
programmer  analyst  at  Data  Terminal 
Systems  in  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Alvin  B. 
Pauly  works  for  Michelin  Tire  Corp., 
Greenville,  S.C.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  DuPont, 
Donald  F.  Rapp  is  now  assistant  department 
engineer  for  the  firm  in  Wilmington,  Del.  He 
is  married  and  has  a  son.  .  .  .  Michael  J. 
Scelzo  is  employed  by  Panametrics,  Inc.  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Raymond  B.  Stanley 
works  for  the  Electric  Boat  Division  of 
General  Dynamics  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Stewart  T.  Stocking  is  with  Feroni  Heating 
and  Plumbing  Co.  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Robert  S.  Templin,  who  is  registered  to 
practice  before  the  U.S.  Patent  Office,  is  now 
engaged  in  the  general  practice  of  law  at 
Stokes  and  Himmelein  Roads  in  Medford, 
N.J.  .  .  .  Harold  S.  Wyzansky  is  a 
mathematician  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Air  Station 
in  Lakehurst,  N.J.  He  is  also  a  part-time 
graduate  student  in  computer  science  at  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania. 


1970 


Married:  Craig  C.  Chase  and  Miss  Patricia  C. 
Theile  on  November  29,  1975  in  Livingston, 
New  Jersey.  Mrs.  Chase  graduated  from 
Katharine  Gibbs  School  in  Montclair.  Both 
she  and  her  husband  are  employed  by  Porter 
and  Ripa  Associates,  Inc.,  Morristown,  N.J. 
.  .  .  Kenneth  H.  Morgan,  Jr.  and  Miss  Carol 
Ann  Stepp  in  Waltham,  Massachusetts  on 
October  4,  1975.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Massachusetts  Bay  College  and  is  a  private 
secretary  at  Raytheon.  Her  husband  is  a 
senior  engineer  with  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Health. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Clark 
Knickerbocker  their  first  child,  Steven 
Joseph,  on  September  18,  1975.  Clark  is  an 
account  manager  at  Hooker  Chemical  in 
Niagara  Falls,  N.Y. 

James  F.  Bagaglio  is  with  the  department 
of  laboratory  medicine  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  School  Hospital  in 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Peter  G.  Bladen  is  a  resident 
service  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  in 
Madison  Heights,  Mich.  .  .  .  Alan  S. 
Breitman  serves  as  an  actuarial  assistant  for 
Boston  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  in  Canton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Joseph  M.  Chwalek,  Jr.  works 
for  CEEIA  in  Fort  Ritchie,  Md.  ...  In  May 
Lawrence  B.  Cohen  will  join  Union  Carbide, 
Sistersville,  West  Va.,  where  he  will  serve  as 
a  research  chemist.  .  .  .  William  F.  Dudzik  is 
a  civil  service  operations  research  analyst  at 
the  Washington  (D.C.)  Navy  Yard. 


Roger  P.  Henze  has  just  started  work  s 
transportation  planner  with  the  Capital 
District  Transportation  Committee  and  w  ta 
working  out  of  the  Albany  (N.Y.)  County   | 
Planning  Board.  His  job  entails  the 
coordination  of  all  transportation  plannin 
activities  and  federal  funds  for  transportaw 
improvements.  His  wife,  Judy,  plans  to  ea 
graduate  school.  .  .  .  Neil  M.  Hodes  is 
construction  manager  at  McKee,  Berger, 
Mansueto  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  Jerry. I 
Johnson,  a  fourth  year  graduate  student ti 
Dartmouth  College,  was  recently  awarder.:^ 
annual  $4,200  fellowship  in  chemistry 
endowed  by  the  Goodyear  Tire  and  Rubb  I 
Company  Educational  Fund.  In  1974  he  v\u 
research  assistant  working  on  a  National 
Institute  of  Health  grant  awarded  to  his 
superior,  Prof.  Gordon  W.  Gribble.  He  wael 
Dartmouth  Fellow  in  1972  and  1973.  .  .  .    i| 
Robert  C.  Keenan  works  for  Centronics 
Data  Computer  Corp.  in  Hudson,  N.H. 

Robert  J.  Mulcahy  serves  as  a  plannir 
staff  supervisor  at  New  England  Telephone 
Boston.  ...  Dr.  Alexander  Murdoch,  wl  I 
received  his  PhD  from  Purdue  recently,  is 
now  an  application  engineer  at  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  John  A.  Pelli  hok 
the  post  of  sales  manager  at  Berkshire  Tr<d 
Air  Conditioning  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  I 
Barry  W.  Soden  is  an  assistant  engineer  | 
the  City  of  Chicopee  (Mass.).  .  .  .  Present! 
John  O.  Tarpinian  works  as  a  research 
assistant  at  MIT's  National  Magnet  Labs  in 
Boston. 


1971 


Married:  Robert  E.  Jolda  and  Miss  Nancy 
McKee  in  Oakland,  California  on  Novembe 
29,  1975.  Mrs.  Jolda  graduated  from  the 
University  of  California  at  Berkeley  and  did 
graduate  work  at  Holy  Names  College, 
Oakland.  She  teaches  high  school  in  San 
Bruno,  Calif.  The  groom  graduated  from 
Stanford  University  and  is  an  economist  w 
the  U.S.  government  in  San  Francisco. 
Robert  P.  Mills,  Jr.  to  Miss  Sheila  Logan 
August  23,  1975  in  Morningdale, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  attended 
Quinsigamond  Community  College  and  Sar 
Mateo  (Calif.)  Junior  College.  She  is  a 
marketing  research  assistant  at  State  Mutu 
Life  Assurance  Co.  The  bridegroom  is  an 
actuary  at  State  Mutual,  Worcester.  ...  Pa 
Popinchalk  and  Miss  Nancy  E.  Wood,  'T. 
in  the  state  of  Washington  on  February  14, 
1976.  The  bride  is  with  Westinghouse 
Hanford  Co.  and  the  groom  is  with  Bovee 
Crail,  Richland,  Wash.  .  .  .  Noel  Totti  III  to 
Miss  Margarita  Vizcarrondo  in  Mayaguez, 
Puerto  Rico  on  December  20,  1975.  Startin 
in  July  the  groom  will  be  an  intern  in  interr 
medicine  at  UPR's  University  District 
Hospital. 

Robert  C.  Blaisdell  serves  as  an 
economist  at  NE  Power  Planning,  West 
Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Ellen  L.  Brueck  is  a 
teacher  and  department  chairman  at 
Westchester  Academy  in  High  Point,  N.C. 
.  .  .  Barry  L.  Chesebro  is  a  graduate  stude 
at  Lowell  Tech.  .  .  Thomas  R.  Copp  workil 
for  Montrose  Products  Co.,  Inc.  in  Auburn,  [ 
Mass.  .  .  .  Scott  M.  Dineen  is  employed  asl 
sales  engineer  at  American  Heat  Reclaiming! 


A20  ■     iary  April  V)  :>       WPI  Journal 


The  Norton  Spirit. 

A  Penske-prepared  M16C  McLaren  with  an  800 
horsepower  turbo-charged  Offenhauser,  4-cylinder,  twin 
overhead  cam  shaft  engine. 

Not  your  average  company  car.  But,  then,  Norton  is  not 
your  average  company  either. 

As  the  world's  leading  producer  of  abrasives,  with  over 
20,000  employees  in  89  plant  locations  in  21  countries,  Norton 
is  deeply  involved  in  the  manufacture  of  thousands  of  products 
in  all  shapes,  sizes,  and  materials. 

For  example,  virtually  every  component  on  a  racing  car— 
or  even  your  family  automobile— is  shaped,  smoothed,  and 
finished  by  abrasive  products. 


But,  as  a  highly  diversified,  multi-national  company, 
Norton  is  also  pacing  the  field  in  many  other  important  areas. 

In  ceramics,  sealants,  plastics,  synthetics,  chemical 
process  and  bio-medical  products  and  safety  equipment,  the 
Norton  team  has  set  new  and  enviable  records  for  the  imagina- 
tive design  and  development  of  hundreds  of  quality  products. 

Today,  you  can  look  to  this  Norton-sponsored  racing 
machine  for  new  standards  of  performance  on  the  1976  USAC 
circuit.  And  you  can  look  to  Norton  and  its  distributors  for  a 
winning  performance  in  your  own  circles. 
Norton  Company,  World  Headquarters: 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01606. 

Nobody  has  a  better  track  record 


NORTON 


The  Company  Gar 


/V£7/?7~£7/V 


<S/ji 


uS 


^ui(j.  in  iNew  iufK  uuy.  .  .  .  uonaiu  o. 
Fogg,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  quality  control 
manager  at  Procter  &  Gamble  (Folger's 
Coffee)  in  New  Orleans,  La.  .  .  .  Presently  Dr. 
Paul  S.  Furcinitti  serves  as  a  research 
associate  in  the  physics  department  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  John  A.  Giordano  has  been  elected 
assistant  planning  officer  at  Worcester 
Bancorp,  Inc.  He  joined  the  firm  as  a 
planning  assistant  in  1973  after  receiving  his 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island. 

Kenneth  R.  Perkins  is  a  captain  with  the 
U.S.  Army  at  Ft.  Riley,  Kansas.  .  .  .  Ralph  H. 
Reddick  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  Currently 
Peter  Salis  serves  as  assistant 
superintendent  of  engineering  at  the  National 
Starch  &  Chemical  Corp.  in  Indianapolis,  Ind. 

.  Anthony  Schepis  works  as  a  sales 
engineer  for  DeLaval  Separator  Co.  in  Hyde 
Park,  Mass.  .  .  .  Joseph  J.  Spezeski  is  a 
doctoral  candidate  at  the  University  of 
Arizona  in  Tucson.  .  .  .  Robert  Stein,  an 
electrical  engineer  who  has  participated  in  the 
long-range  power  supply  planning  of  the  New 
England  regional  electric  system,  has  joined 
the  staff  of  the  Massachusetts  Municipal 
Wholesale  Electric  Co.  in  Littleton,  Mass.  His 
major  responsibility,  when  he  was  with  the 
planning  arm  of  the  New  England  Power 
Pool,  was  the  study  of  load  flow  and  stability 
and  the  analysis  of  major  new  generation  and 
transmission  facilities  proposed  by  member 
utility  companies  as  additions  to  the  regional 
electric  system. 

Thomas  Weil  works  for  Bechtel  Corp.  in 
San  Francisco.  .  .  .  A.E.  "Tony" 
Yankauskas  has  been  promoted  to  assistant 
director  of  financial  reporting  in  the  corporate 
financial  reporting  section  of  the 
comptrollers'  department  at  Continental  Can 
Company,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  His  most 
recent  position  was  manager  of  special 
analyses  in  the  department.  Tony,  who  holds 
an  MBA  from  Northeastern,  joined 
Continental  in  1973  as  a  finance  trainee.  .  .  . 
Steven  C.  Watson  is  at  Harvard  Business 
School  and  is  social  chairman  of  the  Rugby 
Club.  .  .  .  Ronald  L.  Zarrella  was  recently 
promoted  to  manager  of  production  planning 
and  material  control  at  Clairol.  In  addition  to 
his  production  planning  and  material  control 
duties,  he  is  responsible  for  all  raw  material 
warehousing  operations.  Ron  joined  Clairol  in 
1971.  Prior  to  his  most  recent  promotion,  he 
was  department  head  of  materials 
management.  .  .  .  Michael  P.  Zarrilli  has 
been  elected  as  assistant  secretary  in  the 
Manufacturers  Hanover  Trust  Company's 
national  division  western  district.  He  will 
represent  the  bank  in  southern  California, 
Montana,  and  Utah. 


1972 


Born:  to  Jeffrey  A.  Petry  and  Mary  Bellino 
Petry,  '74,  a  son,  Anthony  "Tony"  James, 
on  October  29,  1975.  Tony  has  a  brother, 
Jeff,  Jr  ,  14  months  old.  Jeff  is  with  the 
Tomngton  Co.  as  a  district  sales  engineer  for 
the  Indianapolis  office. 

Robert  S.  Ames  is  a  programmer  with 
IBM  in  Boca  Raton,  Fla.  .  .  .  Charles  H. 
Bacon,  Jr   teaches  at  Montachusett 
Vocational  Technical  School  in  Fitchburg, 

Gregory  S.  Blood  is  a  sales  unit 
superintendent  at  Swift  Fresh  Meats  Co.  in 


A22     •  ■  :  ■  ,,rv  Apr,/  1'i;>       WPI  Journal 


rcuuana,  vi.  .  .  .  vvniiam  n.  ueguiis  worKS 
as  a  manufacturing  engineer  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Jean  Fraser  currently  serves 
as  town  planner  in  the  Department  of  Plan- 
ning and  Transportation,  Greater  London 
Council  (the  metropolitan  government  of 
London,  England).  Most  of  her  work  is  on 
improving  derelict  canals  and  carrying  out  en- 
vironmental improvements  of  various  kinds  in 
the  East  End  of  London.  She  expects  to  be 
qualified  as  a  planner  in  the  United  Kingdom 
in  October.  .  .  .  James  L.  Jardine  holds  the 
post  of  construction  coordinator  at  Camp 
Dresser  &•  McKee,  Boston.  .  .  .  William  E. 
Kamb  serves  as  assistant  superintendent  for 
Turner  Construction  of  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
Roy  N.  Lampinski  is  a  self-employed 
medical  equipment  salesman  in  Valley  Park, 
Mo.  .  .  .  Douglas  W.  Mach  works  for 
Motorola,  Inc.  in  Schaumburg,  III.  .  .  . 
Pramod  D.  Nayate  is  with  Raymond 
Control  System  in  St.  Charles,  III.  .  .  .  Robert 
I.  Parry  is  with  Stone  Et  Webster,  Boston. 
.  .  .  Randy  Partridge  has  been  awarded  a 
three-year  fellowship  for  his  PhD  from  Mobil 
Oil  Company.  In  the  company-wide 
competition  he  received  the  only  fellowship 
granted.  Recently  he  spent  several  months  in 
Moscow  on  a  U.S.  — U.S.S.R.  research 
exchange  program  which  WPI's  Prof.  Alvin 
H.  Weiss  coordinated  for  this  country.  .  .  . 
Pratim  Patel  has  started  his  own  business 
manufacturing  coated  and  finely  ground 
fillers  for  industry  in  Bombay,  India.  His  wife, 
Nilima,  whom  he  married  in  December, 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Manitoba  in 
Winnipeg,  Canada.  .  .  .  Paul  C.  Potvin 
teaches  in  Putnam,  Conn,  and  also  lectures  in 
physics  at  Annhurst  College  in  South 
Woodstock.  .  .  .  Lt.  Marcello  A.  Ranalli  is 
with  the  U.S.  Navy  in  Guam.  .  .  .  Formerly 
placement  director,  Thomas  A.  Reynolds  is 
now  an  associate  at  Scientific  Placement, 
Inc.,  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Donald  A.  Taft 
has  been  awarded  first -year  honors  at 
Harvard  Business  School.  He  is  presently  in 
the  second  year  of  Harvard's  MBA  program. 
.  .  .  Thomas  L.  Terkanian  works  as  a 
construction  engineer  for  George  Macomber 
Co.,  and  is  located  in  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  . 
John  (Jack)  Zorabedian,  Jr.  has  joined 
Sweetheart  Plastics  in  Wilmington,  Mass. 


1973 


Married:  Mark  P.  Housman  to  Miss  Rhonda 
S.  Lushan  on  December  21,  1975  in  Boston, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  attended  Skidmore 
College  and  is  currently  studying  at  the 
School  of  Public  Communications,  Boston 
University.  The  groom,  who  received  his 
MBA  from  Boston  University,  is  with 
Coopers  &  Lybrand.  .  .  .  Thomas  E.  Radican 
and  Miss  Kathie  L.  Birman  on  November  29, 
1975  in  Cranston,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Radican 
attended  the  University  of  Oregon.  Her 
husband  is  plant  manager  for  Savage 
Industries  in  Camden,  N.J.  .  .  .  Joseph  J. 
Staszowski  to  Miss  Jane  Ann  Caron  on 
September  6,  1975  in  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire.  The  bride,  who  works  for  the 
N.H.  Bureau  of  Dental  Public  Health, 
graduated  with  dental  hygiene  degrees  from 
New  Hampshire  Technical  Institute  and  the 
University  of  Bridgeport  (Conn.)  Currently  her 
husband  is  working  for  his  master's  degree  at 


II 


I 

- 


K 

i 

Ik 

■■ 

n 

■ 


iMortneastern  university.  .  .  .  James  A. 
Viveiros  and  Miss  Denise  M.  Roussel  on   | 
November  29,  1975  in  Fall  River, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Viveiros,  a  graduate  i] 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University,  is|| 
employed  by  the  Worcester  County 
Institution  for  Savings.  The  bridegroom  is 
with  Alden  Research  Labs,  in  Holden. 

Bruce  J.  Baker  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Holland  Co.,  Inc.  in  Adams,  Mass.  .  .  .  Da* 
C.  Bedard  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  at  Fort 
Bliss  in  El  Paso,  Texas.  .  .  .  Tom  Bileski 
serves  as  a  field  sales  engineer  at  Electro-F 
Heat,  Inc.,  Bloomfield,  Conn.  .  .  .  Richard 
Birkenshaw  is  with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Bostoi 
.  .  .  Leo  Buchakjian,  continuing  with  GE, 
currently  located  in  Evendale,  Ohio.  .  .  . 
Philip  N.  Ciarlo  is  unit  level  manager  for 
shop  operations  in  the  D.C.  Motor  and 
Generator  Dept.  at  GE  in  Erie,  Pa.  .  .  . 
Clarence  J.  Dunnrowicz  works  for 
Raytheon  Research  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  . 
Granger  Dyett  III  is  self-employed  as 
president  of  his  own  firm  in  Needham 
Heights,  Mass.  .  .  .  Will  Elliott  continues  h 
globe-wide  duties  with  GETSCO-DSOI. 
Recently  he  sent  greetings  from  Brazil.  He 
has  served  in  Africa  and  expects  to  be  in 
Taiwan  this  summer.  The  company 
headquarters  are  located  in  Salem,  Va. 

Jon  Franson  is  a  meteorologist  in  trainir 
with  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  .  .  .  Thomas  A 
Gargiulo  works  for  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Inc.  in 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  John  J.  Gizienski  serv 
as  a  process  control  engineer  at  GE  in 
Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  Robert  M.  Laham  is  e 
proposal  engineer  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Paul 
A.  Lewis  is  with  Dittman  and  Greer, 
Middleton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Joseph  J.  Magri,  Jr 
works  for  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in  Stratford, 
Conn.  ...  Dr.  R.N.  Mathur,  an  associate 
professor,  teaches  at  Lock  Haven  (Pa.)  Stat 
College.  .  .  .  Barry  Mendeloff  is  a  project 
engineer  at  Sundstrand  Corp.  in  Rockford,  I 
.  .  .  Robert  G.  Nelson  is  with  Haestade 
Engineers  in  Waterbury,  Conn.  .  .  .  Bruce  E 
Nunn  is  now  a  research  engineer  for  the 
Beloit  Corp.,  Jones  Division,  in  Dalton,  Mas 
His  wife,  Allison  Huse  Nunn,  works  for  the 
Chester  (Mass.)  Division  of  Bendix  Abrasives 

Bill  Owen  and  his  father  have  opened  a 
new  Bill  Owen  Radio  and  TV  Service  store 
Mansfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Maryann  Bagdis  Pao 
is  a  technical  representative  for  National 
CSS,  Inc.,  Philadelphia.  Headquarters  are  in 
Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  James  Risotti  is  a 
processing  supervisor  at  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass 
.  .  .  Gary  K.  Smolen  is  doing  graduate  wor 
at  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  .  . 
Richard  F.  Socha  is  returning  to  WPI  as  a 
graduate  student.  .  .  .  John  A.  Taylor  serve 
as  a  design  engineer  at  Shuster-Mettler  Corf 
in  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Ralph  J. 
Veenema  holds  the  post  of  development 
engineer  in  the  central  research  department 
of  Worthington  Pump,  Inc.  and  is  located  in 
Glen  Rock,  N.J.  He  received  his  MSME  fron 
UMass  last  June.  .  .  .  Having  earned  his  MS 
at  Yale,  David  C.  Wason  is  currently  a 
programmer  with  Associated  Catholic 
Hospitals  Computer  Center  in  Brighton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Karl  S.  Williams  serves  as  a  boile 
design  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker,  Worcester. 

Robert  A.  Yesukevich  is  a  design  groui 
leader  at  Universal  Oil  Products  in  Riverside, 


74 


ed:  James  D.  Perrone  and  Miss  Karen 
anus  in  Worcester  on  November  8, 
The  bride  graduated  from  Becker.  Her 
and  is  a  health  inspector  for  the 
ester  Department  of  Public  Health.  .  .  . 
ard  D.  Ventre  to  Miss  Elaine  S.  Dyott 
illas,  Texas  on  February  14,  1976.  Steve 
ams  was  best  man.  Mrs.  Ventre 
ded  Trinity  University  in  San  Antonio, 
zing  a  BS  in  business  administration, 
mtly  she  is  with  the  Hartford  Insurance 
jany  in  Dallas.  The  groom  is  employed 
e  plastics  department  of  DuPont  at  the 
le  River  Works  near  Orange,  Texas.  .  .  . 
c  A.  Wendell  and  Miss  Mary  Nadolny 
muary  11,  1976  in  Webster, 
achusetts.  Mrs.  Wendell  graduated  from 
Maria  and  is  a  graphics  designer  for 
jf  Millbury  and  editor  of  Dairy  World 
izine.  Her  husband  is  a  development 
ieer  with  Hewlett-Packard  Medical 
onics  Group  in  Waltham. 
ward  Arsnow  works  as  a  safety 
eer  at  Travelers  Insurance  Co.  in 
ing.  Pa.  .  .  .  William  M.  Block  is  a 
t  engineer  for  Environmental  Builders  in 
:hester,  Conn.  .  .  .  Clayton  E.  Boyce 
s  as  a  materials  engineer  at  Ebasco 
ces,  Inc.,  Killona,  La.  .  .  .  Roger  J. 
ker,  Jr.  works  at  Brown  Er  Root,  Inc.  in 
ton,  Texas.  .  .  .  Gerald  G.  Buzanoski 
sined  Griswold  &  Fuss,  Inc., 
:hester.  Conn.  His  wife,  Kara  Hogan 
inoski,  presently  serves  as  an 
Dnmental  engineer  for  the  state  of 
ecticut  in  Hartford.  .  .  .  Donald  W. 
pbell  is  an  analytical  chemist  at  Liberty 
al  Research  Center  in  Hopkinton,  Mass. 
lobert  P.  Cikatz  works  as  a  quality 
ol  engineer  at  United  Nuclear  Corp.  in 
sville,  Conn.  .  .  .  George  A.  Clark  is  a 
iase  operations  specialist  at  Norton  Co. 
Drcester.  .  .  .  Steven  D.  Dettman  is 
Sanders  Associates,  Ocean  Systems 
on,  Nashua,  N.H. 

ur  R.  Dodd  serves  as  an  assistant 
teal  nuclear  engineer  at  Gibbs  Er  Hill, 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  Robert  H.  Dutson 
s  for  Factory  Insurance  Association, 
»n,  Md.  .  .  .  Presently  Lt.  Robert  F. 
/  is  a  radar  intercept  officer  in  the 
ie  Corps.  .  .  .  Joseph  H.  Gaffen  is 
oyed  as  an  instrumentation  and  controls 
teer  at  UOP,  an  Air  Correction  division 
irien,  Conn.  .  .  .  Donald  R.  Gettner  is 
tant  golf  pro  at  Stanford  (Calif.)  Golf 
se.  His  wife,  Linda  Fritz  Gettner,  is  a 
jate  student  at  Stanford  University.  .  .  . 
nis  Hattem  is  building  canals  with  the 
e  Corps  in  Malaysia.  .  .  .  Currently  Barry 
lynds  holds  the  post  of  assistant  quality 
ol  engineer  at  Stone  Er  Webster  in 
ral,  Virginia.  .  .  .  Ricardo  and  Gretchen 
i  Lobo  are  associate  professors  at 
ersidad  Autonoma  Metropolitana  in 
co.  .  .  .  1  /Lt.  James  J.  Martin,  who 
ltly  graduated  from  U.S.  Air  Force  pilot 
ng  at  Moody  AFB,  Ga.,  has  received  his 
■  wings.  Presently  he  is  at  Reese  AFB, 
s  where  he  is  flying  the  T-38  Talon  and 
ng  with  a  unit  of  the  Air  Training 
mand. 


David  F.  McGuigan  is  a  graduate  student 
at  the  University  of  Rochester  (N.Y.).  .  .  .  Lt. 
David  M.  Nickless,  executive  (Army)  officer 
of  Bravo  Battery,  directed  the  21 -gun  salute 
given  for  President  Ford  at  the  first  National 
Bicentennial  Fair  held  in  Oklahoma  City.  .  .  . 
Paul  Nordstrom  serves  as  a  water  quality 
control  engineer  for  the  state  Water 
Resources  Control  Board  in  Sacramento, 
Calif.  .  .  .  James  T.  O'Bray  is  now  a  buyer 
for  the  Gillette  Company  in  Andover,  Mass. 
.  .  .  David  A.  Peterson  is  a  graduate  student 
at  Cornell  University.  .  .  .  Michael  W. 
Pontbriand  is  an  office  engineer  at  the 
Badger  Company  in  Carville,  La.  .  .  .  Robert 
R.  Rosander  holds  the  post  of  project 
manager  at  Brown  Er  Williamson  in  Louisville, 
Ky.  .  .  .  Dr.  Alice  A.  Sayler  is  an  assistant 
professor  of  chemistry  at  Bloomfield  (N.J.) 
College.  .  .  .  Presently  Dean  F.  Stratouly  is 
employed  by  Diamond  Power  Specialty  Corp., 
a  subsidiary  of  Babcock  Er  Wilcox  Co.,  in 
Lancaster,  Ohio. 


1975 


Married:  Bruce  D.  Arey  and  Miss  Debra  D. 
Dostoler  in  Worcester  on  November  8,  1975. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Burncoat  Senior 
High  School  and  is  employed  at  Outlet  Co., 
Auburn,  Mass.  .  .  .  Michael  E.  Aspinwall 
and  Miss  Patricia  A.  Calce  in  Worcester  on 
August  10,  1975.  Mrs.  Aspinwall  graduated 
from  Worcester  State  College  and  received 
her  MA  in  special  education  and  learning 
disabilities  from  Assumption  College.  She 
was  a  speech  therapist  in  the  Webster  public 
schools.  The  groom  was  a  systems  analyst  at 
Bay  State  Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass.  and  is 
currently  studying  for  his  M  BA  at  the 
University  of  Chicago.  .  .  .  John  M. 
FitzPatrick  and  Miss  Virginia  A.  Giordano 
on  October  19,  1975  in  Pawtucket,  Rhode 
Island.  Denise  Gorski  was  the  honor 
attendant.  The  couple  is  employed  by  the 
Charmin  Paper  Products  Co.  in  Mehoopany, 
Pa.  The. bride  is  an  industrial  engineer  and 
the  bridegroom  a  production  engineer.  .  .  . 
Scott  K.  Nelson  and  Miss  Marilyn  L.  Janes 
on  November  29,  1975  in  Athol, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Nelson  graduated  from 
Becker.  Her  husband  is  with  Keyes 
Construction  Corp.,  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  . 
David  S.  Roland  and  Miss  Cynthia  L.  Bubon 
in  Worcester  on  October  25,  1975.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Auburn  High  School.  The 
groom  is  a  student  at  Rochester  Institute  of 
Technology  and  works  for  Eastman  Kodak  in 
Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  William  C.  Rutter  and 
Miss  Phyllis  E.  Poole  in  Worcester  on 
November  29,  1975.  Mrs.  Rutter  graduated 
from  the  Worcester  Art  Museum  School  and 
was  a  paste-up  artist  with  Heffernan  Press, 
Inc.  The  bridegroom  is  a  chemical  engineer 
with  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  in  Rochester. 

Bruce  P.  Altobelli  is  a  project  engineer 
trainee  at  Alpine  American  Corp.  in  Natick, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Mark  R.  Antonio  has  been 
named  an  assistant  scientist  in  the  new 
products  development  physical  pharmacy 
department  in  the  professional  products 
research  and  development  division  of 
Warner-Lambert's  research  institute  in  Morris 
Plains,  N.J.  .  .  .  Kent  E.  Berwick  is  with 
GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  . 


Bruce  A.  Chamberlin,  a  field  engineer  for 
DuPont  Co.,  Wilmington,  Delaware,  is 
presently  working  on  a  two-year  assignment 
as  a  cost  reduction  consultant  to  Remington 
Arms  Co.  in  llion,  N.Y.  The  assignment  is 
part  of  a  six-year  engineering  management 
training  program  sponsored  by  DuPont's 
engineering  services  division.  .  .  .  Mark  M. 
Deming  has  been  employed  as  a  junior 
engineer  for  the  Metropolitan  Area  Planning 
Council  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Mark  J.  Drown  is  an 
occupational  therapy  assistant  at  Fernald 
State  School  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  M.  Dunn  serves  as  a  technical 
representative  for  Betz  Lab.  in  Chicago.  He 
travels  to  check  equipment  in  process  plants. 

Katherine  R.  Fowler  is  an  electrical 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Martin  Fugardi  works 
as  a  project  engineer  at  Damon  G.  Douglas 
Co.  in  Newark,  N.J.  .  .  .  Denise  Gorski  has 
been  promoted  to  director  of  research  in  the 
Office  of  University  Relations  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
Gary  D.  LaLiberty  is  a  process  engineer  at 
Hooker  Chemical  Er  Plastics,  Niagara  Falls, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Kimberley  R.  Mains  is  employed 
as  a  computer  programmer  at  Associated 
Catholic  Hospitals  Computer  Center  in 
Brighton,  Mass.  .  .  .  Martin  Meyers  is  a 
graduate  teaching  assistant  at  UMass, 
Amherst.  .  .  .  John  W.  Murray  recently 
joined  Unionmutual  in  Portland,  Me.  as  an 
actuarial  student.  He  has  passed  the  first  two 
parts  of  examinations  leading  to  a  fellowship 
in  the  Society  of  Actuaries.  .  .  .  Judith  B. 
Nitsch  is  a  project  engineer  with  Schofield 
Brothers,  Inc.,  in  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Presently  Michael  S.  Schultz  is  at  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineering  Center  in  Fort  Belvoir,  Va. 
.  .  .  Hooshang  Shamash  is  a  graduate 
student  at  UMass.  .  .  .  Ralph  F.  Soucie 
expects  to  begin  graduate  work  in 
architecture  at  Arizona  State  University  this 
fall.  .  .  .  Wayne  E.  Stratton  is  an  electronics 
engineer  at  the  Naval  Surface  Weapons 
Center  in  Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  .  .  Jon  C. 
Wyman  is  at  Naval  Officer  Candidate  School 
at  the  Naval  Educational  and  Training  Center 
in  Newport,  R.I. 


NOTE:  Because  of  the  special 
nature  of  this  double  issue  of  the 
Journal,  we  have  deferred 
"Completed  Careers"  until  next 
issue. 


TRUSTEE  NOMINATIONS 

Proposals  for  the  consideration 
of  alumni  as  alumni  term  mem- 
bers of  WPI's  Board  of  Trus- 
tees are  currently  being 
sought.  Valid  proposals  are 
due  on  or  before  June  16,  1976. 
Details  may  be  obtained  by 
contacting  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee,  c/o  Stephen  J. 
Hebert,  '66,  Alumni  Secretary, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  MA  01609. 


WPI  Journal  I  February- April  1976  I  A23 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  research  and  development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leaders  in  the  development  of  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


11(13 


■ 


h  m 

Hi 


Forging  form  and  function 
into  metal 


K&3 

ZmkI 


■  ■ 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER 

NORTH  GRAFTON      MILLBURY 

Midwest  Division:  Harvey,  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate,  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 

Santa  Ana,  California 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay,  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


A24  WPI  Journal 


!  in  a  seminar  as  their  final  activity,  one  or  two  stu- 
"s  presenting  papers  each  week  for  a  general  group 
ussion.  A  student's  grade  on  the  entire  sufficiency 
lirement  reflects  his  work  in  the  final  term  of  inde- 
dent  study  or  seminar  participation. 
One  fact  of  educational  life  emerged  after  several 
s  of  sufficiency  advising:  most  WPI  students  are  not 
fficiently")  well-prepared  to  undertake  a  sufficiency. 
/  lack  many  of  the  basic  skills  and  methodologies 
ted  for  investigation  in  the  humanities.  To  remedy 
the  humanities  department  has  designed  four  "con- 
"  courses  to  teach  some  of  these  practical  skills  and 
;:  literary  analysis,  analysis  in  philosophy,  religion, 
ethics,  historical  analysis,  and  an  introduction  to  the 

That  is  the  humanities  sufficiency.  But  WPI  stu- 
:s  can  major  in  English  or  history.  They  must  develop 
fficiency  in  one  of  the  areas  of  science  or  engineer- 
n  just  the  same  way  as  other  students  work  out 
'  humanities  sufficiencies.  At  least  six  courses  are  in- 
ed,  and  they  must  be  thematically  related  and  lead 
o  a  final  independent  study  in  the  student's  chosen 
of  science  or  engineering. 


How  well  has  the  sufficiency  requirement  worked 
as  a  part  of  the  Plan?  David  Riesman  of  the  NSF 
panel  commented  that,  "I  have  been  impressed  by 
the  degree  to  which  WPI  students  have  become  more  at 
home  with  the  humanities,  and  even  found  arenas  of 
contact  which  make  the  humanities  more  than  a  kind  of 
gloss  for  prospective  managers  or  for  cocktail  party  con- 
versation." 

Brooke  Hindle,  director  of  the  Smithsonian  Institu- 
tion's National  Museum  of  History  and  Technology,  had 
this  observation  to  make:  "This  is  a  well-conceived  effort 
to  accomplish  an  objective  which  no  engineering  school 
so  far  has  succeeded  in  attaining.  It  is  being  carried  for- 
ward by  a  group,  a  primarily  young  group,  of  faculty 
members  who  are  putting  more  into  this  effort  than 
could  ordinarily  be  expected  from  a  faculty." 

Reporting  to  the  National  Endowment  for  the  Hu- 
manities, historian  T. H.  von  Laue  of  Clark  University  re- 
counted the  following  experience:  "We  asked  the  stu- 
dents if  they  would  make  the  Humanities  part  of  their 
degree  requirement  if  they  were  free  to  legislate  on  the 
subject.  The  great  majority  raised  their  hands  in  the  af- 
firmative, with  considerable  enthusiasm  for  the  present 
program." 

And  finally,  in  assessing  the  program,  English  pro- 
fessor Michael  Wolff  of  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
at  Amherst  had  this  to  say:  "WPI's  Plan  and  the  human- 
ities program  are,  on  paper,  where  they  should  be.  We 
all  need  to  share  in  the  rediscovery  of  what  an  education 
in  humanities  ought  to  be.  But  surely  the  flexibility  that 
will  help  students  branch  out  in  all  sorts  of  humane  en- 
deavor while  introducing  them  to  the  traditional  bases  of 
knowledge  must  be  one  way  to  go.  Above  all,  you  have 
committed  yourselves  against  merely  temporary  effects 
and  to  the  institutionalization  of  significant  change  .  .  . 
What  I  see  is  the  opportunity  for  faculty  and  students 
together  to  reintroduce  education  and  reality  to  each 
other  as  only  a  new  but  readily  available  vision  of  the 
humanities  can  do." 


29 


/<* 


4    / 

Or***  ' 


'if     .  «*  k, 


.**^- 


.v:  ** 


^  * 


*>', 


-»%? 


'  4, 


*flL>. 


■»£- 


*>T 


^**1 

■***••• 


nRPBHwn 


1J 


1 


•4fmr 


ay  Gainsboro— 

WHonaire  in  the  making? 

y  Gainsboro  has  set  a  goal  for  himself:  he  wants  to  be 
nillionaire  by  the  time  he  is  35.  He  started  off  toward 
it  goal  by  entering  WPI  to  study  electrical  engineering 
preparation  for  grad  school  and  a  career  in  business, 
id  he  very  nearly  flunked  out.  "My  first  year  was  char- 
terized  by  a  lot  of  fooling  around,  spending  five  or  six 
urs  a  day  in  the  computer  center,  things  like  that." 
len  he  began  his  second  year.  Jay  was  ready  for  EE 
.  he  thought.  His  first  term  he  took  three  courses  and 
ysical  education.  He  passed  physical  education. 

"My  parents  weren't  too  impressed.  They  said, 
)u've  got  the  choice  of  producing,  or  you  can  leave 
iooI;  we're  not  going  to  pay  to  have  you  fail  three 
jrses  out  of  four.'  It  was  a  time  to  reevaluate  my  posi- 
n.  I  realized  that  because  I  hadn't  done  too  much  stu- 
ng my  first  year  I  didn't  have  the  really  good  math 
:kground  I  needed  for  electrical  engineering." 

Jay  went  back  to  his  original  goals  and  decided  to 
nbine  his  business  interests  with  engineering.  He 
■ked  over  the  offerings  and  the  faculty  of  the  manage- 
snt  engineering  department  and  decided  to  make  the 
itch.  "At  the  time  it  really  was  a  cop-out.  Looking 
:k  on  it  now,  I  think  it  was  a  good  decision.  I  think 
it  if  I  had  gone  through  WPI  with  my  original  plan,  I 
uld  have  come  out  with  engineering  but  no  business 
:kground  at  all.  And  had  I  done  well  in  electrical  en- 
eering,  I  wouldn't  be  where  I  am  now." 

(Where  he  is  now,  at  the  time  we  interviewed  Jay, 
s  trying  to  decide  among  four  job  offers,  all  of  which 
sealed  to  him.) 


Once  he  had  decided  on  management  engineering, 
things  took  a  decided  turn  for  the  better.  Jay's  grades 
pulled  up,  with  about  50  percent  distinctions,  and  he  be- 
gan putting  some  direction  into  his  studies.  Jay  also 
realized  that  he  worked  better  under  pressure,  and  the 
normal  load  of  three  courses  per  term  just  wasn't  sup- 
plying him  with  enough  motivation  to  buckle  down  and 
study.  So  he  registered  for  severe  overloads,  as  many  as 
six  courses  per  term.  He  thrived  under  this  kind  of  pres- 
sure, which  would  have  submerged  most  other  students. 
Although  it  was  far  out  of  the  ordinary,  it  worked  for 
Jay  Gainsboro,  and  that's  what  counted. 

Jay  was  no  stranger  to  the  ways  of  business.  He 
started  his  first  business,  in  fact,  at  about  age  fourteen. 
A  skier  himself;  he  and  a  friend  made  ski  gaiters,  cloth 
overboots  to  keep  the  snow  out  of  one's  socks.  The  two 
turned  a  profit  of  about  $500.  During  Jay's  first  year  at 
WPI  he  got  a  concession  selling  jewelry  in  the  WPI 
bookstore.  His  second  year,  working  for  a  local  bottler, 
he  sold  soft  drinks.  This  third  year  he  sold  books. 

After  his  third  year  at  WPI,  Jay  took  off  nine 
months  to  start  up  a  new  company  with  his  father. 
When  he  returned  to  WPI  in  term  C,  he  had  a  new  per- 
spective on  the  courses  he  took.  "I  went  through  differ- 
ent stages.  My  initial  reaction  was  that  this  was  all  a 
bunch  of  bull,  that  there  was  nothing  to  the  theoretical. 
But  then,  thinking  about  it  a  little  bit  more,  I  realized 
that  there  was  a  definite  need  for  it.  Theory  gives  you  a 
place,  a  basis  to  start  from.  The  practical  is  all  right,  but 
having  the  theoretical  background  and  the  knowledge  to 
draw  on  is  very  important." 

Jay's  major  and  interactive  qualifying  projects  were 
both  concerned  with  solar  energy,  though  in  very  differ- 
ent ways.  For  his  major  project,  Jay  was  part  of  a  three- 


31 


person  team  that  designed  and  built  a  practical  solar 
heater  for  a  swimming  pool.  One  student  designed  and 
build  the  working  prototype,  another  designed  the 
manufacturing  process  necessary  to  produce  it,  and  Jay 
conducted  extensive  market  research  to  determine  how 
the  heater  should  be  marketed.  The  students  put 
together  a  twenty-five  page  business  plan,  complete 
with  cash  flow  projections  and  the  amount  of  capital 
that  would  have  to  be  invested. 

For  his  IQP,  Jay  decided  to  try  and  share  some  of 
his  knowledge.  He  went  back  to  his  school  in  Wayland, 
Massachusetts,  and  offered  to  conduct  a  class  in  solar 
energy  for  interested  students.  After  considerable  red 
tape,  the  idea  was  approved.  Then  Jay  spent  a  day  talk- 
ing to  each  science  class  to  drum  up  interest.  He  hoped 
to  sign  up  ten  or  fifteen  students,  but  fifty  enrolled  at 
the  beginning  — nearly  one-fourth  of  all  the  students  he 
had  talked  to.  Jay's  class  ended  up  with  twenty-five  stu- 
dents, who  got  very  involved  indeed.  As  Jay  put  it,  "I 
had  two  top  students  doing  things  that  were  even  a  little 
bit  beyond  me.  One  was  building  a  working  model  of  a 
satellite  solar  power  station  which  would  generate 
electricity  and  transmit  it  over  a  distance  of  twenty-five 
feet.  Another  made  a  steam  engine  powered  by  the 
sun."  Jay  aims  high  with  all  his  work.  "My  ultimate  goal 
with  this  course  was  to  have  NBC  Nightly  News  come  in 
and  do  a  little  thing  about  us.  But  the  major  thrust  was 
to  let  people  know  that  solar  energy  is  practical." 


Jay  was  disappointed  with  the  results  of  his  compe 
tency  examination.  "I  put  in  as  much  work  as  I  possibly 
could.  I  had  about  fifty-five  hours  to  work  on  it,  and  I 
got  about  six  hours  of  sleep.  I  felt  I  did  a  very  good  job. 
My  oral  exam,  though,  concentrated  on  one  aspect,  fi- 
nance, and  my  written  paper  had  dealt  also  with  personH 
nel,  operations,  and  marketing.  The  hardest  part  of  the 
competency  exam  is  waiting  for  the  results.  After  twentv 
minutes,  the  faculty  group  came  out  and  said  I  passed.  I 
was  very  disappointed.  I  got  an  Acceptable  and  I  wantec 
a  Distinction." 

The  last  degree  requirement  Jay  fulfilled  was  his 
sufficiency.  For  this  Jay  chose  to  study  a  somewhat  dif- 
ferent area.  "I  chose  philosophy,  the  ethical  issues  in 
business.  I  figure  I'm  going  to  be  spending  the  rest  of 
my  life  in  business  if  my  plans  go  the  way  I  want,  and  I 
feel  I  should  have  a  philosophical  point  of  view  on  it." 
Jay  read  extensively  in  John  Stuart  Mill,  Adam  Smith, 
and  other  classical  economic  philosophers,  then  explorec 
particular  issues  in  modern  society,  such  as  price-fixing 
and  the  social  responsibility  of  large  corporations. 

At  this  point  Jay  is  off  working  on  his  first  million. 
The  thing  he  remembers  best  about  WPI  is  the  flexibility 
of  the  WPI  Plan.  "It  gives  you  an  opportunity  to  go  off 
on  your  own  and  to  do  what  you  want.  I  don't  think  I 
could  have  been  happier  in  any  other  school.  Everything 
worked  out  perfectly  for  me.  I  wouldn't  have  said  this 
during  my  second  year  when  I  failed  three  courses,  but 
looking  back  on  it  now  and  being  out  in  the  real  world 
and  experiencing  it,  I  feel  that  WPI  has  provided  me 
with  a  great  basis  from  which  to  go  out  and  conquer 
all." 


J 


32 


How  well  the  Plan  is  going 


Everyone  wants  to  know  how  well  the  Plan  is 
working,  and  what  people  think  of  WPI  these 
days.  Probably  the  first  place  to  start  looking  for 
some  of  those  answers  is  on  the  campus  itself.  What  do 
students  and  faculty  — the  people  who  live  closest  to  the 
Plan  — think,  and  how  well  does  the  Plan  today  compare 
with  what  they  felt  and  expected  a  few  years  ago  before 
the  Plan  became  a  reality? 

Students 

Those  answers  are  readily  available,  because  of  two 
studies  which  have  been  carried  out  under  the  auspices 
of  the  National  Science  Foundation.  The  first,  of  stu- 
dents, has  been  conducted  by  Dr.  Karen  Cohen,  an 
evaluator  who  is  also  affiliated  with  M.I.T.  She  was 
asked  to  evaluate  the  effects  of  the  WPI  Plan  on  the 
students.  For  three  years  she  interviewed  hundreds  of 
students  from  all  classes,  and  she  also  interviewed  stu- 
dents at  Clarkson  College  of  Technology  and  at  Stevens 
Institute  of  Technology,  to  provide  a  basis  for  compari- 
son and  to  allow  her  to  judge  what  observable  differ- 
ences were  merely  reflecting  national  trends.  (Clarkson, 
which  has  a  traditional  program,  was  selected  because  it 
has  about  the  same  number  of  undergraduates  as  WPI 
.  .  .  and  they  are  remarkably  similar  in  background. 
Stevens  was  picked  because  its  faculty  had  recently 
undergone  significant  upheaval.) 

Dr.  Cohen's  conclusions  are  reassuring.  Plan  stu- 
dents, she  found,  are  by  any  available  measure  as  com- 
petent as  previous  WPI  students,  if  not  more  so. 
"Students  at  WPI  spend  more  time  on  learning  activities 
than  those  in  comparison  institutions,  and  the  time  spent 
in  experiments  and  project  work  is  greater  than  the 
amount  of  time  spent  in  class.  The  WPI  Plan  is  a  feature 
that  attracts  students  to  the  school  more  prominently 
than  do  the  programs  at  comparison  engineering 
schools.  The  program  also  attracts  a  more  diverse  group 
than  used  to  come  to  WPI. 

"Entering  WPI  students  have  higher  educational 
goals  in  general.  They  value  such  things  as  the  ability  to 
work  with  ideas,  the  development  of  a  capacity  for  life- 
long learning,  being  an  interesting  individual,  being  of 
service  to  others,  and  changing  the  world  for  the  better 
more  strongly  than  do  students  at  the  other  engineering 
schools. 


33 


NG'G 


"Those  in  the  program  perform  exceedingly  well  in 
job-oriented  projects,  both  as  rated  by  project  industrial 
sponsors  and  by  the  students  themselves.  Furthermore, 
the  quality  of  their  academic  work  under  the  Plan  is 
equivalent  or  slightly  better  overall  than  before  the 
institution  of  this  new  system,  as  are  their  EIT  scores,  an 
external  index  of  competency  in  engineering." 


Faculty 


During  the  turbulent  three  years  of  Plan  implementation, 
faculty  attitudes  and  actions  were  studied  by  Dr.  Frank 
Baker,  of  the  State  University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo, 
and  Dr.  John  Babarro,  '59  of  Harvard  University. 

As  has  been  indicated  in  other  articles,  demands  on 
the  faculty  have  been  — and  are  — much  higher  than  at 
other  colleges.  One  faculty  member  put  it  this  way: 
"Everyone  is  working  much  harder  with  longer  hours.  I 
never  get  a  free  evening  because  I  have  students  in  my 
office  so  much  of  the  time." 

And  with  all  this  extra  load,  what  do  the  faculty 
think  about  the  WPI  Plan?  To  quote  Baker  and  Gabarro, 

"Nearly  four-fifths  of  the  faculty  indicate  they 
believe  that  the  WPI  Plan  has  been  a  successful  experi- 
ment in  educational  reform.  Comparing  it  to  older 
patterns  of  engineering  education,  nearly  two-thirds  of 
the  faculty  indicate  that  they  believe  the  Plan  offers  a 
science  and  engineering  education  which  is  superior  to 


the  traditional  approach.  Regarding  the  costs  of  the 
Plan,  almost  two-thirds  of  the  faculty  indicate  a  belief 
that  the  benefits  derived  from  the  WPI  Plan  justify  its 
high  costs  in  terms  of  their  own  workload  and  pro- 
fessional development. 

".  .  .  In  assessing  the  success  of  the  Plan,  .  .  . 
almost  two-thirds  agree  that  the  level  of  competence  ott 
WPI  graduates  is  increasing  as  a  result  of  the  Plan." 

Baker  and  Gabarro  summarized  their  findings  with 
this  praise:  "Even  with  the  hardships  and  overextension 
the  faculty  experienced  in  implementing  the  Plan,  more, 
faculty  now  understand  and  support  the  Plan  than  did  i 
its  inception,  and  a  new  sense  of  confidence  is 
developing  among  the  faculty  as  a  whole.  .  .  . 

"As  external  observers  we  have  witnessed  a  sub- 
stantial maturing  within  the  faculty  beyond  that  present 
in  most  institutions.  It  has  manifested  itself  in  the 
faculty's  gradually  developing  confidence  and  ability  to 
address  bold  and  significant  changes  with  an  increasing 
sense  of  calmness  and  determination.  In  the  same  vein, 
the  faculty  has  developed  a  tolerance  for  opposition  an</ 
criticism  which  it  did  not  possess  three  years  earlier.  , 
This  consequence  is  an  important  effect  of  the  Plan  on 
the  faculty.  But  it  is  also  reflective  of  the  quality  of  the 
faculty  and  its  leadership.  It  may  very  well  be,  as  severa 
of  the  NSF  panelists  reported,  that  few  other  engin- 
eering faculties  exist  with  the  qualities  necessary  to  im- 
plement a  'WPI  Plan.'" 


34 


►  lecent  alumni 

jjrhaps  more  important  than  the  attitudes  of  students  is 
fe  experience  of  those  who  were  students  under  the 
•an,  graduates  from  the  classes  of  1972  through  1975. 

The  Journal  interviewed  several  of  them  to  find  out 
jst  how  they  feel  about  WPI  and  the  Plan  now  that 
.ey  can  look  back  on  it  with  some  perspective.  We 
jare  particularly  interested  in  their  perceptions  of  how 
f  3l I  WPI  prepared  them  for  their  present  jobs. 

William  Elliott,  '73,  an  electrical  engineering  major, 
urks  as  a  field  supervisor  engineer  with  GETSCO,  a 
[</ision  of  General  Electric,  in  Salem,  Virginia. 

"I  didn't  take  as  many  technical  courses  as  my 
«  Ileagues  at  work,  but  my  WPI  education  was  more 
h  an  adequate  to  take  care  of  what  I  know  and  use  in 
le  technical  area,"  Will  said.  "I  am  a  firm  supporter  of 
da  Plan.  It  has  gone  much  farther  and  progressed  much 
ipre  than  I  anticipated."  Will  feels  that  the  WPI  Plan 
I  :ers  "a  better  education,  better  facts,  and  it's  a 
t  aracter  builder." 

Will  has  especially  fond  memories  of  the  faculty  at 
ftPI.  "The  personal  contact  with  faculty  members  brings 
pit  the  whole  spirit  of  why  one  is  learning  something, 
^d  why  a  person  is  doing  this  work  to  begin  with." 

Barbara  Bain,  '74,  majored  in  life  sciences  at  WPI. 
.Jie  is  currently  a  data  systems  analyst,  part  of  a  design 
urn  building  a  new  data  center  for  Southern  New 
I  gland  Telephone  Company  in  New  Haven, 
t  nnecticut.  "I  think  WPI  education  is  far  superior.  The 
i  lole  Plan— the  competency  and  the  projects— gives 
'u  working  experience.  When  I'm  working  on  a  prob- 
1 1,  my  co-workers  often  ask,  'How  did  you  get  that 
;  swer?'  And  I  can  answer  that  it's  because  I  did  proj- 
i  :s  like  this  at  school."  Barbara  changed  from  the  tradi- 
1  nal  program  to  the  Plan  during  her  sophomore  year.  If 
{ a  had  it  to  do  over  again,  she'd  prefer  to  spend  all 
1  jr  years  on  the  Plan.  Other  comments:  "When  I  took 
i '  competency  exam,  it  was  the  only  time  I  realized  just 
f  w  much  knowledge  I  had  actually  stored  up  in  four 
I  ars  of  education." 

John  Chipman,  '74,  is  another  EE  graduate. 
1  rrently  an  electronic  instrumentation  engineer  for 
i"E-Sylvania  in  Needham,  Massachusetts,  John  rates 
I;  WPI  education  "better  than  the  education  at  the 
cerage  school.  Projects  give  a  student  a  chance  to  do 
nlistic  things.  They  prepare  you  most  for  the  kind  of 
\)rk  you  do  in  engineering."  Although  he  wishes  he 
Id  a  better  background  in  engineering  econom- 
i:—  "being  aware  of  engineering  costs  when  you  design 
;  mething"  —  and  he  feels  this  has  handicapped  him  in 
I;  job,  he  has  nevertheless  progressed  more  quickly 
lan  his  co-workers.  Dave  Hatch,  John's  supervisor  at 
VE,  observed  that  he  "was  very  much  impressed  by 
•  hn's  maturity  in  engineering.  I  felt  he  was  much  better 
spared.  John  is  way  ahead  of  himself  compared  to 
•aduates  from  other  schools."  Hatch  also  commented 
'at  WPI  seems  to  offer  a  more  wide  open  set  of 
'  oices  in  school,  that  it  is  not  so  restrictive  as  other 
'Heges,  and  that  a  really  noticeable  difference  is  the 
•ojects  the  students  must  do. 


John  Barnes,  74,  is  a  mechanical  engineer  and 
director  of  the  power  systems  group  at  Combustion 
Engineering  Corporation  in  Windsor,  Connecticut.  John 
also  feels  that  his  WPI  preparation  was  better  than  that 
of  his  colleagues  from  other  schools.  "It's  very  much 
better,"  he  said,  "in  that  it  was  much  more  rounded.  I'm 
in  a  technical  atmosphere,  and  no  one  here  seems  to 
have  had  much  exposure  to  anything  other  than  techni- 
cal areas.  I  feel  I  have  an  advantage  over  my  colleagues 
because  of  my  well-rounded  education. 

"The  Plan  put  the  burden  of  my  education  on 
myself.  It  allowed  me  the  freedom  to  get  myself 
educated.  And  that  in  itself,  over  four  years,  leaves  a 
remarkable  imprint." 


What  outsiders  see  in  the  WPI  Plan 


Perhaps  more  important  in  the  long  run  than  what  stu- 
dents and  faculty  think  of  the  WPI  Plan  are  the  opinions 
of  the  outside  world  — particularly  business  and  industry, 
the  ultimate  judges  of  how  well  most  of  WPI's  graduates 
perform. 

One  recent  indicator  involved  the  class  of  1975 
(which  was  half  Plan  and  half  non-Plan)  and  their  per- 
formance on  the  Engineer-In-Training  examination  last 
spring.  In  all  of  Massachusetts,  88  percent  of  those  who 
took  the  examination  passed  it.  86  percent  of  WPI  non- 
Plan  students  passed,  while  93  percent  of  Plan  students 
passed.  Furthermore,  the  distribution  of  scores  was  quite 
distinctive:  Plan  students  received  higher  scores  than  did 
the  group  of  non-Plan  students  who  took  the  exam  at 
the  same  time.  Although  this  index  is  only  one  indication 
of  actual  engineering  competence,  and  many  other 
factors  must  be  taken  into  account,  many  professionals 
in  the  field  regard  the  EIT  test  scores  as  significant  and 
"hard"  data  which  indicates  the  value  of  a  person  as  an 
engineer. 


The  NSF  Visiting  Committe 


Mention  has  been  made  throughout  this  publication  of 
the  National  Science  Foundation  Visiting  Committee. 
This  group  was  established  in  1972,  under  the  terms  of 
WPI's  record  grant  from  NSF,  as  an  independent  com" 
mittee  of  outside  educators  and  industry  people,  who  ' 
would  "monitor"  the  development  of  the  WPI  Plan,  hd 
as  feedback  to  NSF  and  to  WPI.  The  group  was  a  blu« 
ribbon  panel,  including: 

Dr.  Lee  Harrisberger,  dean  of  science  and 

engineering,  University  of  Texas  at  Permian 

Basin 
Dr.  Bruce  Mazlish,  head  of  the  department  of 

humanities,  Massachusetts  Institute  of 

Technology 
Dr.  George  Pake,  vice  president,  Xerox  Cor- 
poration, Palo  Alto  Research  Center 
Dr.  Kenneth  Picha,  dean  of  the  school  of 

engineering,  University  of  Massachusetts 
Dr.  Eugene  Reed,  executive  director,  Bell 

Telephone  Laboratories 
Dr.  David  Riesman,  Henry  Ford  II  Professor 

of  social  sciences,  Harvard  University 
Dr.  John  Whinnery,  professor  of  electrical 

engineering,  University  of  California  — 

Berkeley 

The  group  visited  the  WPI  campus  twice  a  year  fo 
three  years.  The  scope  of  their  visits  is  described  by 
George  Pake:  "A  typical  meeting  comprised  two  days 
both  structured  and  unstructured  sessions  with  student 
faculty,  and  administrators,  as  well  as  executive  sessior 
of  the  Panel.  Panelists  were  given  access  to  any  data  o 
individuals  they  asked  to  see:  all  of  WPI  became  an 
open  book  which  we  were  free  to  puruse  or  study  in 
depth  as  we  wished.  The  Panel  involvement  extended  1 
attendance  of  faculty  meetings,  meeting  with  such  con 
mittees  as  the  faculty  committee  on  tenure,  visiting  wit, 
professors  in  their  homes,  lunching  with  students,  and 
one-on-one  interviews  with  student,  faculty,  and  admin 
strative  personnel.  A  few  panelists  made  additional  vish 
on  their  own  to  talk  with  faculty  and  students,  to  atten 
classes,  etc.  It  is  quite  possible  that  some  academic 
members  of  the  Panel  have  a  better  overview  of  WPI 
than  they  do  of  their  home  institutions. "  (italics  added) 


36 


After  three  years  of  watching  the  WPI  Plan  progress 
m  concept  to  reality,  the  NSF  panel  was  in  a  unique 
jition  to  judge  WPI's  accomplishments.  The  panel 
rted  off  skeptical:  "I  frankly  did  not  think  the  Plan 
uld  last  as  long  as  the  three  years  of  our  panel,  but 
II  before  that  a  crisis  would  occur  which  could  not  be 
y/ed,"  said  David  Riesman,  echoing  the  feelings  of  the 
ier  panelists. 

But  in  those  three  years,  the  panel's  skepticism 
ned  to  belief  that  WPI  might  be  able  to  pull  it  off 
sr  all,  and  finally  to  enthusiasm  at  our  achievement. 


Bruce  Mazlish:  "How  can  I  sum  up  except  to  say 
i  t  a  plan  that  seemed  impossible  of  implementation 
t  se  years  ago  is  now  moving  along  briskly  and  well." 

David  Riesman:  "In  the  dawn's  early  light,  the 
F  n  is  still  there,  still  in  major  part  uncompromised  and 
r  >ntless  in  its  demands  on  faculty  energies  and  student 
t  ;nts.  And  it  seems  clear  that  for  the  best  students, 
\t  'I  has  provided  a  better  education  than  they  would 
r  'e  received  at  the  comparison  colleges,  and  that  the 
f  ulty  themselves  have  learned  more  than  they  would 
I"  'e,  even  at  engineering  schools  of  higher  reputation 
3 1  greater  national  visibility  prior  to  the  Plan." 

Kenneth  Picha:  "The  faculty  and  administration 
a  to  be  commended  for  the  excellent  progress  in  im- 
p  menting  the  innovative  WPI  Plan." 

George  Pake:  "My  conclusion  after  three  years 
c  ing  which  I  have  seen  the  first  class  of  graduates 
v.  o  have  been  fully  under  the  WPI  Plan:  It  is  the  most 
s  :cessful  experiment  in  educational  reform  with  which  I 
3  familiar." 

Lee  Harrisberger:  "This  is  one  of  the  best  ad- 
r  nistered  projects  I  have  seen,  and  it  has  met  its  ob- 
ji  tives  for  the  three-year  period  exceedingly  well.  Prob- 
Ins  of  implementation  were  met  and  solved  with  very 
Ine  compromise  of  objectives.  The  Plan  is  essentially 
cerational,  and  the  problems  that  remain  can  be  solved 
it  the  same  competent  manner  as  all  in  the  past." 


John  Whinnery:  "There  is  a  spirit,  pride,  and  justi- 
fied self-confidence  among  the  graduates  and  other  stu- 
dents we  met  that  signals  success  in  achieving  the  most 
important  objective  of  the  program.  .  .  I  have  not  seen  a 
more  ambitious  undertaking  in  any  project  for  educa- 
tional innovation,  nor  one  at  any  level  carried  out 
better." 

Eugene  Reed:  "With  the  graduation  of  the  first 
generation  of  Plan  students,  an  important  milestone  has 
been  reached  and  the  results  of  WPI's  institutional  trans- 
formation are  beginning  to  emerge.  We  met  with  six 
seniors  selected  at  random.  .  .  They  were  an  impressive 
group:  articulate,  self-confident,  mature,  knowledgeable 
in  their  fields,  and  wholly  sold  on  the  Plan.  .  .  This  group 
of  young  men  and  women  are  a  credit  to  WPI.  They  will 
go  out  into  the  world,  including  top  graduate  schools,  as 
living  advertisements  of  the  Plan." 


37 


In  the  harsh  light 

of  business  and  industry 


Perhaps  the  most  important  judges  of  the  WPI  Plan, 
particularly  for  students,  are  the  people  who  have  to  hi 
and  work  with  Plan  graduates,  who  have  to  compare 
WPI's  end  product  with  the  students  from  other 
colleges. 

In  these  economic  times,  jobs  are  an  especially  sen 
sitive  area.  And  ultimately  the  success  of  the  WPI  Plan 
will  rest  on  whether  WPI  graduates  can  get  at  least  as  I 
good  and  as  many  jobs  as  graduates  from  other  schoo 
And  what  does  the  business  world  think? 


: 


"Interviewing  your  students  calls  for  a  slightly  different 
but  much  more  enjoyable,  approach  than  that  used  at 
other  colleges.  Thanks  to  their  project  work,  I  found  th 
typical  candidate  to  be  more  outgoing  in  describing  his 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  experiences;  more 
practical  in  his  attitudes  toward  a  career;  and  really, 
much  more  "at  home"  with  himself  in  terms  of 
confidence  in  his  abilities.  It's  very  much  akin  to  inter 
viewing  a  student  who  has  participated  in  a  cooperativt 
education  program  throughout  his  college  years  —  havin 
applied  his  engineering  knowledge  to  some  extent,  the 
candidate  has  already  made  a  partial  mental  transition 
from  student  to  industrial/business  worker. 

".  .  .  Like  other  industrial  representatives,  I  had 
some  initial  concern  about  whether  or  not  the  Plan 
would  graduate  fully  qualified  chemical,  mechanical 
engineers,  etc.  Based  upon  this  past  visit,  I'm  no  longer1 
worried  and  hope  instead  that  the  concept  spreads  to 
other,  more  rigid  engineering  curricula  around  the 
country." 

—  R.C.  Hawkins,  Manager,  Selection  Et  Placement, 
Koppers  Company,  Inc.,  Pittsburgh 

"A  short  while  ago  our  personnel  representative  held 
interviews  at  various  colleges  in  the  New  York  and 
Boston  metropolitan  areas  as  well  as  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute. 

"In  making  a  verbal  report,  he  commented  that,  of 
all  students  interviewed,  Worcester  was  the  standout  fo| 
responsiveness,  knowledgeability,  appearance,  and  type, 

"Further,  the  head  of  our  Process  Department 
added  the  important  point  that,  based  on  his  experience! 
the  Worcester  B.S.  graduate  today  belongs  at  the  top  c 
the  undergraduate  league  ...  I  should  mention  that  he' 
is  an  M.I.T.  man." 

—  J.M.  Driscoll,  senior  vice  president.  Stone  Et  Webster^ 
Engineering  Corporation,  New  York  City 


"I  was  recruiting  at  Tech  last  month  for  the  Center. 

as  very  impressed  with  the  quality  of  the  students 
k  year.  My  last  visit  was  three  years  ago  when  the 
[n  was  in  its  infancy— what  a  difference  now!  The  ex- 

;ure  to  real  world  problems  is  putting  your  students 
'.  ahead  of  those  from  other  colleges  in  coping  with 

I  life  situations.  They  are  much  more  conversant,  self- 

ured,  and  accustomed  to  solving  problems  for  which 
!  answers  are  yet  unknown.  I  was  very  impressed. 
»?p  up  the  good  work." 

•  Christopher  G.  Foster,  "Naval  Underwater  Systems 
[  iter,  New  London,  Connecticut 

'  'PI  Plan  graduates  are  coming  out  just  as  good  en- 

I  eers  as  our  older  grads,  but  they  are  much  more 

i  are  of  the  society  in  which  they  are  doing  en- 

I  eering." 

I '.  S.  S.  Ribeiro,  '58,  treasurer,  Jamesbury  Corporation, 

'  rcester. 


nd  on  to  graduate  school 


\i  not  all  students  are  ready  to  begin  a  career  after 
hr  years  at  WPI.  What  about  those  who  want  to  go  on 
t  graduate  or  professional  schools?  From  the  Class  of 
'  ,  22  percent  of  Plan  students  and  16  percent  of  non- 
P  n  students  went  on  to  grad  school.  It  would  appear 
t  it  Plan  students  tended  to  go  to  grad  school  farther 
•  ay  from  WPI  than  did  non-Plan  students,  and  we 
:  jld  make  a  good  case  that,  by  and  large,  Plan  stu- 
[■lts  went  to  more  prestigious  graduate  schools  than 
t    non-Plan  alumni.  But  see  for  yourself.  Here's  where 
t  y  went: 

No.  Plan        No.  Non-Plan 
I  >ool  students  students 


■  ton  College 

1 

5  ton  University 

1 

E  ndeis  University 

1 

[  e  Western  Reserve  University 

1 

I  Drado  School  of  Mines 

1 

I  nell  University 

4 

1  tmouth 

2 

1 

:  leigh  Dickinson  University 

1 

1  >rgia  Tech 

1 

-:  vard  University 

1 

^  js.  College  of  Optometry 

1 

i.T. 

2 

2 

I  o  State  University 

1 

'  nsylvania  State  University 

1 

1 

3  nford  University 

3 

5.  NY  at  Stony  Brook 

1 

'  ts  University 

1 

-  versity  of  California  at  Berkeley 

1 

.  versity  of  Colorado 

2 

.  v.  of  Connecticut  Med  School 

1 

-  versity  of  New  Hampshire 

1 

-  versity  of  Illinois 

1 

-  versity  of  Massachusetts 

2 

1 

-  versity  of  Pennsylvania 

2 

-  versity  of  Rochester 

2 

1 

.  versity  of  Wisconsin 

1 

i  jinia  Polytechnic  Institute 

1 

J  1 

4 

7 

V  3  University 

2 

Dollars  and  cents  support 

The  WPI  Plan  has  been  expensive.  The  amount  of  time 
and  effort  involved  in  changing  an  institution's  entire 
curriculum  can  hardly  be  guessed  at  .  .  .  but  it's  a  lot. 
New  facilities  and  new  resources  had  to  be  added,  too, 
and  none  of  this  came  during  times  of  economic  plenty. 
As  the  size  of  the  undergraduate  student  body  grew 
from  1,600  to  2,100  — as  new  programs  and  new  depart- 
ments had  to  be  developed  — as  rising  costs  quickly  out- 
stripped rising  income  — all  the  while  the  traditional  WPI 
educational  program  had  to  be  maintained,  salaries  paid, 
buildings  maintained  and  in  some  cases  renovated. 

And  the  WPI  Plan  itself  is  not  a  cheaper  form  of 
education.  Quite  the  contrary.  According  to  Eugene 
Reed  of  Bell  Labs,  "The  major  problem  is  cost.  The  Plan 
represents  education  inherently  more  expensive  than  the 
traditional  format.  I  don't  know  how  much  more 
expensive  — my  estimate:  30%  to  50%— nor  do  I  know 
how  WPI  will  pay  for  it." 

That  seems  like  a  gloomy  picture.  How  could  WPI 
possibly  have  created  the  WPI  Plan  — much  less  be  able 
to  maintain  it  — under  those  circumstances  without  incur- 
ring crippling  budget  deficits? 

The  answer  lies  in  large  part  with  special  financial 
support  given  to  WPI  specifically  because  of  the  Plan.  In 
fact,  a  list  of  foundations  and  corporations  that  have 
made  major  grants  to  the  WPI  Plan  — not  to  buildings  or 
endowment  — reads  like  a  Who's  Who  of  the  major  sup- 
porters of  higher  education  in  this  country.  Here  are 
some  of  them: 


) 


April  1970         The  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation, 

$200,000:  to  fund  the  Environmental  Sy 
terns  Study  Program,  a  prototype  of  pr 
ject  work  under  the  Plan. 

June  1971         Carnegie  Corporation  of  New  York, 
$188,000:  to  fund  the  remodeling  of 
courses  and  "design"  work  leading  to  t 
Plan's  beginning. 

October  1972    National  Science  Foundation, 

$733,400:  A  three  year  grant,  the  larges 
ever  given  by  NSF  under  its  College 
Science  Improvement  Program,  to  fund 
implementation  of  the  Plan. 

February  1973  The  Kresge  Foundation,  $150,000:  to 

provide,  by  renovation,  a  technical  sup 
port  and  service  center  for  project  work 
located  in  the  old  Foundry. 

January  1974    National  Endowment  for  the 

Humanities,  $180,000:  to  promote  the 
teaching  of  humanities  in  a  technical 
school  by  developing  the  WPI  Plan  suf- 
ficiency. 


April  1974         The  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation, 

$350,000:  to  strengthen  social  science 
competence  of  both  faculty  and  student 
by  supporting  interactive  project  activity 
and  special  summer  programs  for  trainin 
faculty. 

July  1974  The  Ford  Foundation,  $180,000:  in 

recognition  of  WPI's  achievement  and  ir, 
novation,  a  Venture  Fund  grant  to  en- 
courage and  support  other  improvement 
in  undergraduate  education,  to  be  used  \ 
the  discretion  of  the  institution. 


October  1974    The  Andrew  W.  Mellon  Foundation, 
$150,000:  to  support  faculty  developmen 
in  the  humanities. 


June  1975         The  Alfred  P.  Sloan  Foundation, 

$85,000:  to  aid  in  developing  audio-visua 
programs  and  instructional  methods. 

June  1975         National  Science  Foundation, 

$430,100:  to  continue  with  Plan  imple- 
mentation, in  recognition  of  WPI's  posi- 
tion as  a  national  leader  in  engineering 
education. 


October  1975    National  Foundation  for  Arts  and 

Humanities,  $82,500:  to  further  the  use  i 
and  development  of  audio-visual  aids  to  , 
instruction. 

March  1976       Lilly  Endowment,  $123,000:  to  support 
and  develop  social  science  faculty  and 
programs. 


40 


he  WPI  Plan  . . .  What  it  isn't 


11^  ne  of  the  problems  in  talking  about  the  WPI 
■  Plan  is  that  people  tend  to  fasten  onto  a 
*W  number  of  highly  visible  changes  that  have  been 
r  ie  in  the  academic  structure,  saying  "These  are  part 
)  he  WPI  Plan"  — or  even,  "These  are  the  WPI  Plan." 
I  a  significant  number  of  those  changes  are  not  part 
>  he  Plan;  they  just  happen  to  have  been  instituted  at 
r  same  time  as  the  Plan.  They  help  the  Plan,  but  they 
I  not  essential  to  the  concept. 

Three  of  these  interesting  but  nonessential  elements 
\  e  been  widely  publicized:  Intersession,  videotape- 
ii  :d  individually  paced  teaching  techniques,  and  WPI's 
1  otiated  admissions  program.  Two  others,  the  7-week 
t  ns  and  the  changed  grading  system,  have  been  the 
mi  points  of  considerable  on-campus  controversy 
r'jgh  this  has  been  little  publicized  off  campus. 

To  complete  an  understanding  of  the  WPI  Plan, 
f  ;e  other  elements  must  also  be  understood.  They 
)  •  an  important  role  in  shaping  academic  life  on 
:.  lpus. 

I  tersession 

r  d  or  three  weeks  in  January  devoted  to  a  different 
t    of  academic  enterprise:  this  is  the  basic  recipe  for 
r'  rsession,  which  is  modeled  after  January  programs 
\\  J  at  scores  of  colleges.  At  WPI  the  ingredients 
3  erally  include  150  or  so  short  courses,  running  from 
)    evening  to  ten  days.  Technical  subjects  are  covered, 
y  many  other  courses  are  far  afield  of  the  usual  WPI 
I  rsework:  gourmet  cooking,  teaching  contract  bridge, 
a  ter  mountaineering  trips,  bartending,  pipe-organ 
:  istruction,  and  the  list  goes  on. 

Why?  The  fundamental  reason  for  beginning  the 
Ir  ^rsession  program  was  to  help  break  down  the  rigid 
s  jcture  that  had  the  faculty  member  engaged  in  teach- 
I  and  research,  but  seeing  his  students  in  almost  no 
o  er  situation.  Intersession  was  designed  to  draw  out 
f;  ulty  members  and  students  to  discover  common 
ir  crests,  to  meet  each  other  as  people  and  not  as  ad- 
v  saries  in  a  classroom  situation.  In  the  words  of  David 


Riesman,  NSF  panel  member,  "It  is  rewarding  for  stu- 
dents to  discover  that  their  feared  professor  of  physics  is 
teaching  them  how  to  build  harpsichords,  or  that  a 
chemical  engineer  is  giving  an  Intersession  course  on 
Chinese  cooking,  or  that  a  professor  of  history  is  taking 
them  to  Florida  to  do  oral  history  among  the  remaining 
indigenous  residents  of  the  Florida  Keys.  Faculty  and 
students  discover  each  other  in  new  ways,  increase  the 
range  of  mutually  shared  interests,  break  the  routines  of 
formal  relationships  — which  are  particularly  striking  at 
WPI  because  of  the  near  total  lack  of  any  non-classroom 
residential  contact  between  students  and  faculty." 

Thus  the  intent  of  Intersession  was  to  build  bridges 
of  communication  between  students  and  faculty,  to  help 
foster  a  sense  of  community  on  campus.  In  five  years, 
though,  Intersession's  impact  has  changed  somewhat.  In 
the  beginning,  the  hoped-for  goals  were  indeed 
achieved.  But  student  participation  has  dropped  some- 
what each  year,  leveling  off  at  about  50  percent  each 
year.  One  thing  that  has  happened  is  that  students  have 
learned  to  use  Intersession  for  other  purposes,  for 
special  projects  of  their  own,  and  as  a  period  in  which  to 
help  organize  or  wrap  up  projects  and  sufficiencies. 

Intersession  has  played  a  large  role  in  helping 
faculty  and  students  get  to  understand  each  other 
better,  and  that  has  been  an  important  factor  in  the  suc- 
cess of  the  sweeping  changes  that  have  been  going  on 
in  other  areas. 


41 


7-week  terms 

The  first  visible  aspect  of  the  WPI  Plan  changes  came 
about  in  1972  when  7-week  terms  hit  the  campus. 
Discussing  the  initial  reaction  of  many  that  7-week  terms 
had  been  a  mistake,  David  Riesman  says,  "I  thought  in- 
stead it  was  a  stroke  of  genius.  It  made  clear  that  the 
Plan  was  a  revolution,  that  it  required  rethinking  one's 
subject  matter  and  stripping  it  to  its  essentials,  and  alter- 
ing one's  relations  to  students  so  as  to  put  them  on  their 
own." 

There  were  several  reasons  for  making  the  change. 
First,  it  was  designed  to  enable  students  to  devote  an 
entire  term  to  working  on  a  project,  perhaps  off  campus, 
and  made  the  formation  of  project  groups  possible.  Se- 
cond, the  7-week  terms  were  designed  to  make  the 
overall  academic  calendar  more  flexible,  by  enabling  stu- 
dents to  enter  and  leave  the  college  at  different  times  in 
the  year,  to  take  a  term  off  with  relatively  little  disruption 
in  their  careers.  Third,  the  workload  would  remain  the 
same,  but  students  would  study  only  three  courses  at  a 
time,  instead  of  the  former  five  or  six  during  a  14-week 
semester.  By  doing  this,  it  was  hoped  that  students 
could  more  thoroughly  immerse  themselves  in  their 
coursework,  learning  more  efficiently. 

Of  course,  things  never  work  out  in  practice  quite 
the  way  their  designers  intended.  After  an  intensive  two- 
summer-long  effort,  financed  in  part  by  a  grant  from  the 
Carnegie  Corporation  and  in  part  by  faculty  members 
donating  two  weeks  their  time,  the  college's  course  of- 
ferings were  completely  revamped.  When  classes 
opened  in  September  1972,  though,  the  snags  in  the  de- 
sign soon  became  apparent.  The  rapid  pace  of  learning 
proved  a  hardship  on  returning  students,  who  were 
simply  unprepared  for  the  change  it  would  require  in 
their  studying  and  learning  habits.  Faculty,  too,  couldn't 
adapt  overnight.  Many  tried  to  teach  their  material  in  the 
same  old  ways,  just  twice  as  fast,  and  that  often  didn't 
work.  In  some  subject  areas  — mathematics  and  the 
humanities,  for  example  — the  newly  required  pace  was 
simply  too  fast.  It  didn't  allow  the  time  needed  for  con- 
cepts and  insights  to  develop  and  mature.  It  seemed  to 
threaten  the  basic  process  of  understanding  in  those 
areas. 

But  solutions  were  found.  Experience  taught  many 
faculty  how  to  deal  with  the  new  time  frame.  For  a  few 
areas,  the  faculty  decided  to  ignore  the  7-week  term, 
running  a  course  for  14  weeks  at  its  previous  rate  of 
teaching.  With  occasional  modification,  the  7-week 
terms  have  proved  effective.  The  WPI  Plan  could  be 
operated  with  7-  or  10-  or  14-week  terms,  once  the  col- 
lege's structure  of  courses  has  been  designed  to  accom- 
modate the  interval.  Though  not  essential  to  the  Plan, 
the  7-week  terms  have  helped  to  signal  the  sort  of  dras- 
tic change  that  the  Plan  embodies,  telling  students, 
faculty,  and  outsiders  alike  that  something  different  is  in- 
deed happening  in  Worcester. 


uraaes 

Under  the  WPI  Plan,  three  basic  grades  exist: 
Acceptable,  Acceptable  with  Distinction,  (AD)  and  No 
Record  (NR  which  means  that  no  record  is  made  on  tl 
transcript  of  the  student's  having  taken  that  particular 
course).  A  grade  of  Not  Acceptable  is  recorded  only  f< 
project  work  or  independent  study. 

This  change  from  the  traditional  A-B-C-D-F  was 
made  to  help  break  away  from  the  tyranny  of  a  quality 
point  average,  with  a  view  to  letting  students  worry 
more  about  studying  their  subject  to  understand  it  thai 
about  getting  a  good  enough  grade  to  raise  their  QPAl  I 
certain  amount.  The  AD  grade  still  allowed  recognition 
of  superior  performance,  while  the  NR  would  hopefully 
encourage  students  to  venture  into  areas  with  which 
they  might  not  be  too  familiar  because  there  was  no 
stigma  attached  to  failure,  no  permanent  brand  on  the 
record. 

All  grading  systems  have  their  plusses  and  minuse 
At  WPI,  it  seemed  there  were— and  are  — some  studeml 
for  whom  the  grading  system  is  inadequate.  If  they  ha\< 
no  hope  of  distinction,  then  there  is  no  intermediate 
grade  to  help  spur  them  on  to  make  an  effort  greater 
than  that  required  simply  to  get  by.  Although  this  affec 
only  a  minority  of  the  students,  it  is  a  real  problem  non 
theless.  About  the  only  answer  to  it,  though,  is  that  an 
other  grading  system  will  also  work  to  the  disadvantag* 
of  certain  students.  Changing  the  grading  system  woul 
only  shift  the  burden  to  a  different  group. 

Along  with  the  recorded  grades,  a  student's  tran 
script  also  contains  written  descriptions  of  his  or  her 
work  in  projects  and  independent  study.  By  detailing  a 
student's  accomplishments  and  performance  in  these 
self-motivated  areas,  the  Plan  transcript  actually  gives  1 
better  and  clearer  picture  of  that  student's  real  achieve' 
ment  at  WPI. 

Whenever  you  change  a  grading  system,  it  seems, 
you  are  stuck  with  the  task  of  teaching  outsiders  how 
use  and  interpret  the  new  system.  Industrial  recruiters 
balked  at  first  at  the  Plan  grades:  without  a  QPA,  how 
could  they  adequately  judge  a  student's  record?  It  was 
case  of  unfamiliarity  breeding  contempt  — or  at  least 
caution.  But  most  of  them  soon  learned  that  descrip- 
tions and  evaluations  of  degree-qualifying  projects  gave 
them  a  much  better  indicator  — one  more  relevant  to   . 
their  own  job-filling  requirements  — of  a  student's 
potential  and  performance  than  a  simple  succession  of1 
letter  grades  could  ever  do. 

The  one  remaining  bastion  of  required  QPAs,  it  apt ' 
pears,  is  for  admission  to  certain  types  of  professional  ' ' 
school  — notably  medicine  and  law.  Such  institutions 
may  have  40  people  applying  for  every  available  openin.  • 
and  many  of  them  feel,  rightly  or  wrongly,  that  they 
simply  don't  have  to  be  bothered  looking  at  a  student's*  ■• 
record  unless  there  is  a  number  attached  to  it.  This  has' 
created  a  problem  for  some  WPI  students,  and  for  thesis 
cases  (and  only  in  these  cases)  a  compromise  with  the 
grading  system  is  made,  computing  an  "artificial"  QPAlk 
which  is  accompanied  by  a  disclaimer  to  the  effect  thatll 
Plan  grades  are  not  translatable  into  numerical  averages 
The  "number"  is  just  to  help  those  students  get  past  th 
initial  screening  — it  is,  in  fact,  exactly  what  many  of 
these  professional  schools  do  themselves  anyway. 


- 


42 


levision  teaching  and 
;  tting  your  own  pace 


as  apparent  right  from  the  beginning  that  WPI  facul- 
'ere  going  to  be  utterly  overloaded  if  they  tried  just 
dd  on  project  supervision,  advising,  and  competency 
ns  to  their  regular  teaching  load.  With  this  in  mind, 

has  made  a  big  commitment  to  the  use  of  television 
videotape  as  a  medium  of  instruction.  When  a  pro- 
Dr  can  record  his  lectures  once,  perhaps  doing  sever- 
:  them  in  one  day,  he  is  freed  of  an  enormous  bur- 

The  second  time  around,  particularly,  he  has  more 

available  to  meet  with  students  on  an  individual 
s  and  to  advise  project  groups.  Updating  a  course 
)mes  a  simple  matter  of  redoing  only  those  things 
:h  need  changing. 

A  second  benefit  of  putting  instruction  on  video- 
,  which  is  then  available  at  the  library,  is  that  a  stu- 

can  study  at  his  own  speed,  and  according  to  his 

schedule.  If  10  p.m.  is  convenient  for  him,  then  it  is 
convenient  for  the  videotape.  And  if  the  student 
ts  to  go  through  four  lectures  at  a  sitting,  he  can. 
e  videotape  removes  the  possibility  of  a  student 
rupting  to  ask  a  question  and  have  it  answered  im- 
iately,  it  also  adds  the  possibility  of  viewing  the  lec- 
or  parts  of  it  two  or  more  times. 
A  number  of  courses  are  offered  in  a  completely 
oaced  version  (called  I  PI,  for  individually  prescribed 
uction)  using  programmed-leaming  texts,  video- 
s,  and  periodic  tests,  or"assessments,"  which  must 
lastered  before  the  student  can  go  on  to  the  next 
of  instruction.  There  are  also  regular  conference 
ions  where  students  can  get  help  on  trouble  spots. 
IPI  system  puts  a  great  deal  of  responsibility  on  the 
ent:  there  is  nothing  but  the  calendar  to  force  the 
!,  and  if  the  student  goofs  off  and  doesn't  get  going, 
3  is  no  one  else  to  do  it  for  him.  But  for  the  student 

can  handle  it,  IPI  offers  a  marvelous  bonus.  Be- 
;e  the  student  must  master  one  unit  before  moving 
ne  can't  get  in  over  his  head  because  he  missed  out 

vital  background  area.  It  may  take  the  student  ;hree 
ks  to  finish  a  course,  or  it  may  take  him  twelve,  but 
n  he  is  through  he  has  demonstrated  a  grasp  of  the 
ect. 

Because  so  much  of  the  WPI  Plan  depends  on  the 
ent's  own  initiative  and  participation  in  the  educa- 
al  process,  IPI  is  especially  suited  to  WPI.  It  is  not 
)table  to  every  subject,  but  it  offers  significant  bene- 
to  students,  faculty,  and  the  college.  While  not  a 
of  the  Plan,  IPI  has  been  a  very  important  factor  in 
ing  it  succeed. 


Negotiated  admissions 

WPI's  negotiated  admissions  process  is  unlike  the  other 
things  discussed  in  this  article.  It  wasn't  instituted  along 
with  the  Plan;  it  came  later. 

Basically,  the  negotiated  admissions  process 
involves  a  very  heavy  counseling  role  by  the  admissions 
staff  with  each  prospective  applicant.  The  interested 
candidate  is  exposed  to  a  wide  variety  of  WPI  experi- 
ences and  I'rterature,  including  interviews,  tours,  taped 
presentations,  perhaps  sitting  in  on  a  class.  Then,  pro- 
viding only  that  the  prospect  meets  the  minimal  require- 
ments of  four  years  of  high  school  math,  three  of 
science,  and  four  of  English  (this  requirement,  in  itself, 
will  weed  out  perhaps  90  percent  of  high  school  stu- 
dents), the  decision  to  admit  is  made  by  the  applicant 
himself  or  herself,  not  by  the  admissions  office. 

Because  of  the  high  self-motivation  required  of  stu- 
dents under  the  WPI  Plan,  it  seemed  only  logical  that 
the  admissions  process  should  reflect  the  need  for  parti- 
cipation. The  student  is  told  about  WPI  and  shown  what 
will  be  expected;  told  how  his  or  her  test  scores  relate  to 
those  of  current  students;  and  finally  asked  to  assess  his 
or  her  own  chances.  It  happens  occasionally  that  a  stu- 
dent opts  to  admit  himself,  even  though  the  admissions 
staff  are  convinced  that  the  student  probably  won't  be 
able  to  make  it  through.  In  this  case,  the  student  is 
given  the  opportunity  to  withdraw,  with  his  deposit  re- 
turned. But  if  the  student  has  enough  confidence  in  him- 
self, despite  the  warnings,  then  WPI  will  give  him  a 
chance  to  try. 

"There's  no  way  we  can  measure  a  student's 
motivation,"  says  Admissions  Director  John  Brandon. 
"It's  not  a  matter  of  test  scores  or  class  rank.  And 
motivation  is  really  important  under  the  WPI  Plan,  more 
so  than  at  most  schools.  So  if  a  student  is  willing  to  bet 
on  himself,  we're  not  going  to  tell  him  no." 

When  negotiated  admissions  was  first  adopted  in 
1972,  there  was  some  fear  that  this  meant  a  lowering  of 
standards  and  would  result  in  ill-prepared  students.  This 
was  in  spite  of  the  fact  that,  just  prior  to  the  new  sys- 
tem, WPI  was  accepting  1200  of  its  1300  applicants.  In 
practice,  there  has  been  little  change  in  the  student  body 
which  can  be  attributed  to  negotiated  admissions.  It 
appears  that  there  are  slightly  more  "superstars"  and 
slightly  more  students  at  the  bottom  end  of  the  scale. 
But  this  may  also  reflect  differences  in  the  type  of  stu- 
dent who  is  attracted  by  the  Plan. 


43 


Genesis — 

The  birth  of  the  WPI  Plan 


by  Andreas  de  Rhoda 


Perhaps  the  most  striking  thing  about  the  WPI 
Plan  is  that  it  was  designed  not  from  the  top 
down  but  from  the  bottom  up.  Its  creators  didn't 
start  by  changing  academic  courses,  the  usual  route  of 
college  reform.  They  weren't  even  content  to  stop  at  the 
next  and  far  more  basic  stage,  rebalancing  the 
distribution  of  requirements,  the  mix  of  educational 
courses  and  programs  which  is  rarely  changed, 
especially  in  colleges  of  science  and  engineering. 
Instead,  these  "radicals"  went  right  to  the  foundation  of 
the  college's  educational  goals. 

The  overall  goal  of  WPI,  like  that  of  most  of  its 
sister  institutions,  has  remained  the  same  since  its 
founding:  to  educate  professional  engineers  and 
scientists.  In  the  more  modest  language  of  WPI's  1865 
motto,  Lehr  und  Kunst,  it  reads,  "to  combine  theoretical 
knowledge  with  practical  learning." 

To  the  people  who  designed  the  WPI  Plan,  this 
statement  was  no  longer  sufficient  for  the  world  in 
which  higher  education  exists  today.  And  so  they 
reconceived  that  goal  completely. 

What  made  these  quiet,  nonideological  professors 
throw  away  the  known  recipes  for  academic  reform  and 
start  from  scratch?  Were  they  naive  idealists  who  knew 
so  little  about  the  myriad  of  things  that  could  go  wrong 
in  such  a  basically  new  and  complex  program?  Were 
they  opportunists  who  sensed  more  quickly  than  others 
the  new  wind  blowing  through  the  halls  of  ivy,  and  who 
responded  with  an  effective  public  relations  device? 

Such  suggestions  overlook  the  most  obvious 
explanation.  Most  of  the  designers  of  the  WPI  Plan  were 
engineers.  They  tackled  the  educational  problem  before 
them  in  much  the  same  way  any  engineer  would  tackle 
a  technological  problem.  They  began  with  a  set  of  basic 
"specifications"  that  needed  to  be  achieved,  and  then 
they  translated  them  into  a  basic  new  design. 

The  faculty  members  who  planned  WPI's  future  had 
not  only  to  create  the  design  but  also  to  set  the 
specifications.  They  recognized  the  rapidly  growing  need 
to  direct  the  development  of  technology  more  wisely, 
more  sanely,  and  more  efficiently.  They  realized  that  to 
graduate  people  capable  of  doing  this  would  require  an 
entirely  new  educational  process. 


- 


i 


Is 


Yet  this  birth  of  a  new  educational  concept  could 
hardly  have  happened  at  a  less  likely  place.  In  1 
Worcester  Tech  was  a  fairly  stodgy  little  school 
dozing  in  the  sunlight  of  its  past  achievements.  Foundc 
in  1865,  it  had  been  one  of  the  country's  first  three  in- 
dependent technical  schools  — schools  that  had 
pioneered  undergraduate  education  in  science  and 
engineering.  Worcester  Tech,  along  with  others,  had 
graduated  the  men  who  built  the  railroads,  the 
steamships,  the  oil  refineries,  the  assembly  lines,  the 
highways,  and  the  computers  — in  short,  the  economic 
base  of  our  modern  technological  American  society. 

While  these  pioneering  days  were  long  gone,  it  wa 
difficult  for  the  school  to  resist  the  temptation  to  assuru 
that  the  outlook  and  methods  that  had  been  effective  f 
a  century  would  continue  to  serve  for  at  least  another 
decade. 

Some  of  the  faculty,  though,  saw  the  situation 
differently.  They  saw  that  the  momentum  of  growth  in 
engineering  schools  — triggered  largely  by  the  post-Wor 
War  II  Gl  Bill  and  a  wave  of  governmental  research 
grants  — had  largely  passed  the  old  college  by.  They  sav, 
that  the  acceleration  of  change  in  technology  was 
obsoleting  for  seniors  much  of  what  they  learned  as 
freshmen.  These  faculty  members  realized  that  the 
mushrooming  of  state-operated,  low-tuition,  tax- 
supported  colleges  threatened  the  very  survival  of 
privately  controlled  and  financed  colleges  such  as 
Worcester  Tech.  They  understood  that  a  new  social 
conscience  had  been  born  out  of  the  growing  realizatio 
of  the  impact  of  technology  on  human  values  and  way 
of  life. 

In  their  eyes,  the  school  had  missed  the  boat  of  th 
post-war  research  boom  and  was  about  to  miss  the  ne>w 
one  which  they  saw  ahead  — the  massive  reorientation  <; 
science  and  engineering  resulting  from  the  new  social 
and  environmental  ethic.  To  them,  the  school  was  also 
cultural  wasteland.  The  curriculum  contained  eight 
courses  in  English  and  six  in  history. 


44 


Finally,  the  faculty  looked  at  their  own  role  in  the 
tution.  Decision-making  and  academic  planning  were 
.pletely  monopolized  by  an  executive  committee 
iposed  of  the  powerful  entrenched  heads  of  the 
Jemic  departments.  "Faculty  meetings  here  were 
twice  or  three  times  a  year,"  recalls  electrical 
neering  professor  Romeo  Moruzzi.  "No  more  were 
jed.  We  simply  marched  in,  listened  to  the  decisions 
had  been  made,  and  then  marched  out  again." 
>hen  Weininger,  chemistry,  said:  "This  place  was  like 
deration  of  baronial  fiefs.  Between  them,  the  barons 
this  place  by  a  kind  of  gentle  interdepartmental  log- 
lg.  The  peasants  gave  the  barons  their  due  and  in 
ti  were  granted  unwritten  economic  security." 


1^  espite  these  sobering  assessments  of  the  state  of 
BwPI,  many  of  the  faculty  realized  that  if  there 
^was  ever  to  be  a  basic  change  in  undergraduate 
C  nee  and  engineering  instruction,  it  would  have  to  be 
t  9  at  a  college  very  much  like  this  one— an  institution 
r  II  enough  to  make  overall  change  effective,  and 
r  )phisticated  enough  to  not  resist  change  effectively. 
I  Harvard  sociologist  David  Riesman  later  put  it,  "WPI 
j  ishes  a  marvelous  illustration  which  I  think  can  be 
e  Bralized:  namely,  that  some  of  the  best  chances  for 
;  rm  lie  in  institutions  with  a  loyalist  faculty,  with  no 
t  ir  opportunities  elsewhere,  who  care  about  the 
i  tution's  survival  in  part  out  of  loyalty  and  idealism, 
r  in  part  because  it  is  the  only  source  of  their 
:  lemic  survival.") 

The  academic  earthquake  that  took  place  at  the 
I  sge  between  1968  and  1970  was  preceded  by  two 
r)  Her  tremors:  a  drive  for  faculty  tenure,  and  a 
L  culum  reform. 

Tenure,  the  formal  recognition  of  permanent  faculty 
t.  js,  is  generally  viewed  as  the  economic  basis  of 
c  lemic  freedom  in  higher  education.  Before  1968 
i  3  had  been  a  kind  of  quasi-tenure  at  WPI.  Faculty 
I  ibers  who  had  been  at  the  college  for  more  than 
I  n  years  were  tacitly  assumed  to  be  there  for  good. 
I  it  was  not  a  specific  right.  A  group  of  faculty  who 
£  begun  their  academic  careers  at  other  institutions 
>  led  a  local  chapter  of  the  American  Association  of 
li  'ersity  Professors,  which  called  on  the  faculty  to 
s  blish  a  formal  tenure  system.  The  faculty  appointed 

mmittee  to  study  the  problem.  The  committee  also 
a  d  for  a  tenure  system,  and  so  the  faculty  voted  it  in. 
1  lure  was  the  first  significant  act  initiated  by  the 
Bitty  in  the  entire  history  of  this  college,"  says 
r  essor  Moruzzi,  who  chaired  the  tenure  study 
c  mittee. 

After  this  first  act  of  independence,  a  group  of 
i  Ity  members  in  electrical  engineering  called  for 
itemization  of  the  freshman  curriculum,  which  they 
r  ged  was  hopelessly  outdated.  "This  curriculum  of 
i   would  drive  a  modern  Atwater  Kent  from  this 
|x>l,"  protested  Professor  William  R.  Grogan,  a  WPI 
r  luate  who  became  one  of  the  top  leaders  of  the 
*!rm  movement.  (Atwater  Kent,  one  of  the  pioneers  of 
IJD  manufacturing  in  the  first  part  of  the  century,  had 
Ked  out  of  Worcester  Tech  for  failing  to  pass  certain 
5  :ired  courses.) 


WPI  President  Harry  Storke,  who  had  been  aware 
of  the  need  for  change,  moved  to  keep  the  department 
heads  from  dominating  the  reform  process.  He  asked 
each  department  head  to  nominate  three  of  his  faculty 
for  a  curriculum  committee.  Storke  and  Dean  of  Faculty 
M.  Lawrence  Price  picked  one  from  each  department, 
then  named  Grogan  chairman. 

The  group  produced  sweeping  recommendations  for 
a  new  freshman-sophomore  curriculum.  It  called  for 
elective  courses  in  the  very  first  year,  and  for  minor  pro- 
grams in  English,  history,  and  humanities  and  tech- 
nology, a  new  program  concept.  Later  the  committee 
proposed  establishing  degree  programs  in  economics, 
business,  humanities  and  technology,  and  inter- 
disciplinary studies,  another  new  program. 

The  resulting  faculty  debate  over  the  new  curric- 
ulum was  heated.  In  the  end  it  revolved  around  a  single 
technical  question:  should  "graphics"  (technical 
drawing)  remain  compulsory?  The  reformers  thought 
graphics  should  not  be  required  for  every  student;  the 
traditionalists  insisted  it  was  a  key  to  technical  educa- 
tion. The  vote  was  close  — 54  to  48.  One  dissident  com- 
mittee member,  in  protest,  resigned  from  the  panel  and 
from  the  college. 


The  rapidly  growing  dissatisfaction  of  the  faculty 
with  the  established  way  of  doing  things  was 
one  crucial  factor  for  change.  The  other  was 
President  Storke  himself.  A  retired  Army  general  with 
virtually  no  background  as  an  educator,  Storke  seemed  a 
most  unlikely  reformer.  Yet  soon  after  taking  office  in 
1962,  he  had  recognized  that  something  was  wrong.  He 
had  asked  the  department  heads  to  draw  up  a  long- 
range  plan  to  assure  the  college's  financial  survival  in  an 
age  of  increasing  competition  from  public  institutions. 

The  department  heads'  response  struck  him  as 
indifferent  and  meaningless.  He  decided  that  if  there  was 
to  be  any  substantial  improvement  at  all,  he  would  have 
to  look  for  support  somewhere  else.  The  success  of  the 
curriculum  reform  convinced  him  he  would  find  his  allies 
in  the  rank  and  file  of  the  faculty. 

Storke's  opportunity  to  move  came  in  the  wake  of  a 
faculty  meeting  held  on  June  14,  1968.  At  that  session, 
chemical  engineering  professor  C.  William  Shipman 
stood  up,  took  the  everpresent  pipe  from  his  mouth,  and 
addressed  his  faculty  colleagues  in  his  laconic  and  gently 
ironic  way.  One  of  his  Sunday  School  pupils,  a  brilliant 
high  school  student,  Shipman  recounted,  had  recently 
asked  him  what  engineering  college  he  would 
recommend. 

"I  was  about  to  say  'Worcester  Tech,  of  course,'  but 
then  I  stopped  right  in  my  tracks.  It  suddenly  dawned  on 
me  that  I  could  not  cite  one  convincing  reason.  I 
couldn't  think  of  one  good  argument  why  this  promising 
young  fellow  should  join  the  school  where  I  teach." 
Shipman  became  passionate  in  his  quiet  way.  The 
college,  he  charged,  was  drifting  without  any  definite 
academic  purpose  except  the  one  phrased  a  hundred 
years  earlier.  Wasn't  it  about  time  to  redefine  that 
purpose? 


Storke 


Two  others,  mathematics  professor  John  P.  van 
Alstyne  and  electrical  engineering  professor  William  R. 
Roadstrum,  rose  in  support  of  Shipman. 

Shortly  afterwards,  President  Storke  dropped  in  on 
Shipman.  "If  I  appoint  a  planning  committee,"  he  said, 
"will  you  chair  it?" 

"If  I  get  the  support  I  need  from  you,  I  will,"  replie 
Shipman. 

"You've  got  it." 

Storke,  Shipman,  and  van  Alstyne  drew  up  a  list  of 
prospective  committee  members,  making  sure  no  depar 
ment  was  represented  more  than  once.  They  asked  for 
and  got  acceptances  from  John  Boyd  (mechanical 
engineering),  Charles  R.  Heventhal  (English),  Roadstrur 
and  Weininger,  who  at  32  was  the  youngest  committee 
member. 

Before  the  momentous  decision  was  announced, 
several  committee  members  talked  with  key  faculty  to 
reassure  them  that  they  weren't  "selling  out." 

"We  were  in  an  awkward  position,"  Weininger  say 
"Several  of  us  had  just  helped  fight  to  win  the  faculty  c 
voice  in  academic  matters,  and  here  we  found  ourselve; 
suddenly  on  a  planning  group  named  by  presidential  fia 
We  told  our  colleagues  that  this  new  committee  would 
be  the  only  one  besides  Grogan's  that  wasn't  dominate* 
by  the  department  heads.  If  anything  significant  were  tc 
be  achieved,  it  would  have  to  be  done  through  this 
group." 

Storke  approved  the  membership.  On  December  12 
1968,  he  called  the  department  heads  to  a  special 
meeting  and  announced  what  he  had  done.  A  five- 
minute  recess  had  to  be  ordered  so  that  everyone 
present  could  regain  his  composure. 


The  next  day  the  President's  Planning  Group 
met  for  the  first  time.  The  task  given  them  by 
Storke  was  to  draw  up  a  plan  for  long-range 
development,  which  included  possible  academic  change 
but  stressed  sound  financing.  At  this  very  first  session, 
the  six  men  realized  they  could  not  do  their  job  ade- 
quately without  reviewing  everything  about  the  college, 
right  down  to  its  basic  educational  philosophy. 

"We  felt  we  were  touching  the  latch  of  a  window 
on  the  future  that  was  about  to  open  to  us,"  says 
Weininger.  "Everything  depended  on  Storke's  approval 
of  this  much  wider  goal."  Shipman  went  to  Storke  and 
told  him.  Storke  said  to  go  ahead. 


Roadstrum 


One  of  the  central  motivations  behind  the  group's 
•cision  to  take  the  widest  possible  approach,  Weininger 
■lieves,  was  an  article  by  mechanical  engineering 
ofessor  Charles  Feldman  published  the  previous  year  in 
9  Journal.  In  it,  Dr.  Feldman  called  for  basic  academic 
?orm  by  cold-bloodedly  arguing  institutional  survival. 

The  enormous  expansion  of  tax-supported  public 
lieges  and  universities,  he  warned,  was  certain  to  bury 
3  "privates"  in  a  decade— unless  the  privates  found 
mething  special  to  offer  students  and  became  the  best 
that  special  field.  Feldman  called  for  unstructured 
idy,  project  work,  self-paced  learning,  a  value-oriented 
inanities  program,  and  an  end  to  compulsory  classes 
d  grading.  This  would  have  been  a  radical  proposal  for 
/  engineering  school;  for  WPI  it  was  dizzying. 

The  President's  Planning  Group  began  its  work  by 
jessing  the  college's  current  academic  assets  and  by 
ilecting  any  and  all  ideas  for  "alternative  futures." 
adstrum  suggested  that  each  alternative  should  be 
earched  and  argued  as  if  it  were  the  only  one  in 
stence,  even  if  it  meant  turning  the  argument  around 
win  it.  This  they  did.  Each  member  wrote  a  proposal, 
■  n  the  others  talked  it  to  shreds  and  rewrote  it  even 
re  persuasively.  This  technique  proved  one  of  the 
st  helpful  moves  in  the  entire  study. 

The  group  came  up  with  twelve  possible  alternative 
jres: 

To  become  a  research-oriented  graduate  center  in 

engineering  and  science. 

To  become  a  "middle  college." 

To  provide  a  classical  education  in  engineering  and 

science  in  the  Oxford-Cambridge  manner. 

To  provide  high  quality  pre-graduate  education  in 

engineering  and  science. 

To  educate  for  leadership  and  decision-making  in  a 

technological  society. 

To  specialize  in  educating  the  underprivileged. 

To  train  students  for  a  bachelor  of  science  degree  in 

technology. 

To  promote  invention  and  entrepreneurship. 

To  transform  WPI  into  a  general  university. 

To  join  the  state  university. 

To  maintain  the  status  quo. 

To  create  an  appropriate  combination  of  any  or  all  of 

these  possibilities. 

Although  all  six  group  members  were  teaching  full 
c  ss  loads  during  this  period,  they  came  up  with  a 
r  ort  in  March  1969,  just  three  months  after  their 
f  nation.  Entitled  The  Future  of  Two  Towers,  the 
r  ort  included  a  preliminary  planning  schedule,  a  partial 
c  ilysis  of  the  school's  current  status,  a  list  of  the 
I  Hve  alternative  futures  with  arguments  for  four,  and 
s  omaries  of  the  results  of  questionnaires  that  had  been 
s  t  out  to  the  college  community. 


Shipman 


van  Alstyne 


Boyd 


Moruzzi 


President  Storke  sent  the  report  to  faculty,  the 
Board  of  Trustees,  staff,  and  selected  students  and 
alumni.  Then  the  group  mailed  another  questionnaire  I 
those  who  had  received  the  report.  On  April  16,  1969, 
classes  were  canceled  and  everyone  on  campus  was 
invited  to  join  in  discussing  WPI's  future.  Some  150 
students  — 10  percent  of  the  total  population— and  130 
faculty— 80  percent— took  part  in  a  number  of  small 
group  sessions. 

"It  was  the  healthiest  day  we  ever  had  here,"  van 
Alstyne  recalls  enthusiastically.  "For  the  first  time  in  oi 
history,  we  honestly  faced  up  to  the  problems  before  i 
and  talked  about  them  freely.  And  this  was  done  with 
extraordinarily  broad  participation." 

By  June  30,  the  group  had  published  Two  Towen 
II,  including  essays  on  the  remaining  futures,  a  summa 
of  the  answers  received  to  the  last  questionnaire, 
conclusions  drawn  from  Planning  Day,  and  the 
completion  of  their  analysis  of  the  college's  current 
status,  mostly  from  the  financial  standpoint. 


" 


•• 


Right  into  this  process  of  rapidly  accelerating 
discussion  and  planning  fell  a  critical  event. 
General  Storke  had  decided  to  retire  for  personal, 
reasons,  and  a  new  college  president  had  to  be  selecte* 
A  presidential  search  committee  had  come  up  witr 
two  prime  candidates.  One  was  an  industrial  engineer 
and  dean  of  the  engineering  school  at  a  large  state 
university.  The  other  was  a  physicist  and  vice  chancellc 
of  Washington  University  in  St.  Louis. 

The  department  heads  wanted  the  industrial 
engineer.  The  President's  Planning  Group,  which  had 
managed  to  meet  with  the  Washington  University  man, 
informally  for  half  an  hour,  strongly  preferred  him.  Whe 
Storke  saw  who  was  backing  whom,  he  adroitly  threw  \ 
his  support  behind  the  choice  of  the  six  planners.  The  , 
Trustees  offered  the  job  to  him,  and  he  accepted.  Thus 
George  W.  Hazzard  became  president  of  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  and  the  man  who  would  have  to 
bring  the  WPI  Plan  into  being. 

Dr.  Hazzard  admitted  to  an  interviewer  that  at  first 
Worcester  Tech  did  not  interest  him  very  much.  What 
changed  his  mind  was  that  half-hour  meeting  with  the 
Plan  Group.  It  convinced  him  that  the  old  college  had  a 
unusual  opportunity  to  create  something  entirely  new  in 
education. 


48 


Meanwhile,  the  President's  Planning  Group  had 

ned  as  a  committee.  They  urged  the  faculty  to 

e  a  successor  panel.  "The  ball  had  been  set  rolling," 

Alstyne  explains.  'If  it  was  to  keep  on  going,  the 

Ity  as  a  body  would  have  to  be  responsible  and  in 

rol  from  then  on." 

Impressed  with  the  swift  motion  of  events,  the 

ty  established  a  Faculty  Planning  Committee  to 

inue  the  work.  Four  of  the  six  planners  were  elected 

e  new  committee— van  Alstyne,  Boyd,  Heventhal, 

Shipman— along  with  Moruzzi,  who  had  headed  the 

re  drive,  and  Grogan,  who  had  led  the  curriculum 

m.  Thus  the  two  preceding  movements  for  change 

,  in  a  sense,  merged  with  the  third  and  most 

>und  into  a  single,  forwardgoing  drive. 

The  new  group  began  its  work  July  1.  Shipman, 

1  elected  chairman,  asked  each  member  to  write  a 

ment  of  goals  for  the  college. 

"The  papers  were  remarkably  similar,"  he  recalls. 

urning  each  of  those  twelve  future  possibilities 

nd  in  our  minds,  in  trying  to  look  at  the  positive  side 

ich,  we  had  in  effect  been  forcing  out  into  the  open 

>wn  innermost  thoughts  and  feelings  about  what  a 

I  educational  program  ought  to  be." 

John  van  Alstyne  put  it  this  way:  "At  this  point,  the 

Dm  of  having  evaluated  and  seriously  argued  each 

e  various  alternative  futures  became  fully  apparent. 

low  realized  that  while  none  of  these  alternatives 

;sented  an  exclusive  description  of  the  future  that  its 

cate  would  have  seriously  put  forth,  all  did  contain 

al  and  common  threads  of  educational  philosophy 

h  went  into  the  genesis  of  the  model  that  finally 

ged."  A  striking  synthesis  — conscious,  unconscious, 

>th  — had  taken  place. 

The  faculty  committee  spent  the  summer  of  1969 

ig  Two  Towers  III  the  definitive  design  for  the 

e  of  WPI.  It  was  published  in  mid-September  at  the 

ing  of  the  fall  semester.  This  report  surprised  and 

ked  many  members  of  the  faculty. 

"I  think  this  was  because  of  the  timing,"  Dr. 

man  later  told  the  student  yearbook.  "We  had  done 

/vork  during  the  summer.  Most  of  the  faculty  were 

acation  and  had  not  read  the  second  report.  To 

n  in  the  fall  and  discover  that  we  had  produced 

3thing  that  much  different,  something  that 

rtened  the  organizational  structure  of  the  college 

which  had  been  done  without  most  of  the  faculty 

g  on  campus— and  certainly  very  few  of  the 

ents— caused  a  bit  of  shock.  I  think  that  if  we  had 

anted  it  in  a  different  way,  there  would  have  been 

of  an  upset." 

Two  Towers  III  called  for  setting  up  nine 

ommittees,  each  dealing  with  various  aspects  of  the 

osal.  Ultimately,  some  90  students  and  74  faculty 

ad  on  these  panels. 


Weininger 


Then  Planning  Day  II  was  held  in  October  to  discuss 
the  plan.  Committee  members  went  all  over  the  campus 
talking  to  faculty  and  students,  explaining  the  proposals. 
The  sharpest  debates  took  place  over  the  proposed 
elimination  of  academic  departments.  Reformers  saw 
this  as  one  of  the  keys  to  the  success  of  the  new  pro- 
gram, at  the  heart  of  which  would  be  interdisciplinary 
cooperation;  they  felt  that  academic  compartmental- 
ization  had  to  go.  Opponents  saw  this  as  an  invitation  to 
institutional  chaos.  Because  of  strong  opposition,  this 
part  of  the  plan  had  to  be  dropped. 

On  December  17,  1969,  the  faculty  adopted  a 
statement  which  summed  up  the  new  overall  goal  of  the 
college  in  a  few  paragraphs.  In  January  and  February, 
the  reports  issued  by  the  nine  subcommittees  were 
distributed,  unedited  and  without  comment. 

Now  the  six  planning  committee  members  put 
together  their  final  report,  Two  Towers  IV:  A  Plan, 


which  was  published  in  March  1970.  The  plan  — now  thj 
WPI  Plan  — was  presented  to  the  faculty  for  approval  irL 
June  1970.  During  those  final  discussions,  it  was  modin 
fied  in  two  places:  physical  education  was  retained  as  ] 
requirement,  and  an  amendment  by  Dr.  Wilmer  L. 
Kranich,  head  of  chemical  engineering,  required  studenp 
to  complete  the  equivalent  of  12  units  of  work  before  j 
being  allowed  to  take  the  competency  examination. 

By  a  two-to-one  majority,  the  faculty  adopted  the 
proposal.  Two  years  of  hard  work  by  the  faculty  had 
brought  into  being  a  new  educational  program  and  a 
new  future  for  WPI.  Conception,  labor  pains,  and  the 
trauma  of  birth  were  now  over  for  the  WPI  Plan.  What 
remained  ahead,  however,  was  an  even  harder  task:  ovl 
a  seven-year  period  the  infant  WPI  Plan  had  to  be 
nurtured,  trained,  and  made  into  a  functioning  and 
productive  member  of  educational  society. 

And  now  it  is. 


UH 


50 


1 


s 


^ptRS©^ 


£ 


TC   WPI       < 


n 


it**-- 


r.ffl 


Editor's  Note:  On  the  next  few  pages  are  excerpts  from  "A  Freshperson  Guide 
to  WPI,"  a  32-page  booklet  introducing  the  WPI  Plan  to  incoming  students.  It 
was  written  and  edited  by  Rob  Granger,  '75,  John  Zimmerman,  77,  and  Marion 
Bishop,  '76,  as  part  of  a  degree  qualifying  project. 


a  racuitv  viewpoint 

All  of  you  who  have  decided  to  enter  WPI  have  more  than  a  casual 
interest  in  science  and  technology  or  you  would  have  considered  a 
different  kind  of  college.  I  don't  have  to  debate  here  the  importance  of 
technology,  for  good  or  ill,  in  our  lives.  You  recognize  these  impacts  or 
you  wouldn't  be  here.  I  would  like  to  make  some  points  about  techni- 
cal education  at  WPI  that  may  not  be  so  obvious,  leading  to  a  plea  for 
you  to  experiment  and  grow  by  designing  a  creative  educational  pro- 
gram for  yourself.  I'll  get  to  that  in  a  bit. 

To  start,  do  you  realize  the  potential  for  educational  flexibility  that 
exists  here?  Almost  every  school  and  college  says,  for  example,  that 
grades  in  courses  are  not  important  but  that  it's  what  you  learn  that 
counts;  while  you  know  that  in  reality  grades  are  the  most  important 
thing.  After  all,  let's  face  it,  that's  how  you  get  the  degree.  We  are  try- 
ing here  to  get  around  this  little  Catch  22  by  not  having  courses  and 
grade  accumulation  be  the  degree  requirement.  The  degree  at  WPI  is 
based  upon  your  ability  to  perform  competently  in  projects  in  your 
fields  of  interest.  This  means  that  grades  in  courses  at  WPI  are  to  help 
you  evaluate  your  own  understanding  of  the  course  material  and  are 
not  the  certification  for  your  degree,  which  is  as  it  should  be.  This  also 
means  that  instead  of  the  faculty  and  the  students  being  adversaries  in 
grade  grubbing,  they  can  be  on  the  same  side  of  the  learning  fence  -- 
and  cooperate.  Even  better,  we  don't  have  a  failing  grade  here,  so  you 
can  experiment  without  punishment.  This  type  of  curriculum  is  really 
very  unusual  if  you  compare  it  to  those  of  most  other  colleges,  and  it 
provides  a  potential  for  achieving  greatness,  we  think,  for  us  as  a  college 
and  you  as  a  person. 

Notice  that  I  used  the  word  "potential"  twice  in  the  last  paragraph. 
This  is  because  we  are  still  in  a  state  of  development  at  WPI.  There  are 
internal  and  external  pressures  to  gradually  revert  to  a  more  traditional 
educational  system.  We  have  already  faced  most  of  the  external  pres- 
sures, grad  schools  for  example,  and  we  pretty  well  have  them  licked. 
The  internal  pressures  are  where  you  come  in.  As  Walt  Kelley's  Pogo 
used  to  say,  "We  have  met  the  enemy  and  they  is  us."  Our  PLAN  is 
very  different  from  the  formal  education  of  our  own  faculty  and  the 
high  school  backgrounds  of  most  of  our  students.  The  flexibility  of  the 
PLAN  carries  with  it  a  lot  of  responsibility,  for  it  means  that  you  (with 
advice)  have  to  learn  how  to  make  decisions  on  which  courses  and  pro- 
jects you  are  going  to  undertake.  Some  faculty  and  students  find  this  too 
scary  or  too  fuzzy.  You  students  are  the  ones  that  have  to  show  that  you 
can  learn  to  use  this  freedom  to  deepen  your  intellectual  grasp  and  to 
broaden  your  emotional  horizons.  Your  success,  however  you  choose  to 
measure  it,  is  our  success. 

But  what  does  all  this  have  to  do  with  creativity?  Lots  of  Engineers 
and  scientists  study,  build,  and  play  with  things  to  create  new  stuff.  You 
see,  to  create  is  at  the  center  of  it.  Yet  traditional  technical  training 
tends  to  stifle  the  urge  to  create  by  an  endless  sequence  of  passive 
"course  sitting."  At  WPI  we  urge  you  to  do  projects  and  to  create  -- 
right  from  the  start.  We  want  to  combine  the  languages  of  science, 
mathematics,  social  science  and  the  humanities  in  a  creative  stretching 
of  your  mind. 

That  last  sentence  is  pretty  heavy,  and  to  lighten  it,  I  like  the  essay 
by  George  Nelson  about  the  difference  between  art  and  design  that  I've 
;>ted  below.  It  is  pretty  long,  but,  I  think,  worth  reading. 
"For  a  number  of  reasons  -  good  and  bad  --  design  is  a  confusing  sub- 
ject. Among  the  good  reasons  is  the  elusiveness  of  definition:  a  person 
who  does  a  line  of  dresses  for  a  couturier  house  and  someone  who 
draws  a  plan  for  a  jet  engine  are  both  called  designers.  It  is  hard  to 
see  what  they  have  in  common. 

What  both  people  share,  I  think,  is  the  process:  each  starts  with  a 
problem,  one  related  to  the  female  figure  and  the  other  related  to 
propulsion.  Each  arrives  at  solutions  within  a  context:  money  limita- 
tions, materials  available,  skills  and  tools  at  hand,  existing  state  of  the 
repetition,  the  nature  of  the  art,  competition,  the  nature  of  the 


8888S888888g888888 

"When  a  student  is  absent  without  previous  excuse,  I 
he  shall  present  two  excuses,  one  for  the  absence  an 
one  for  failure  to  secure  permission  to  be  absent."   | 

-WPI  Rule,  1874 


J.  Himpan  and  R.  Reichel  prepared  calculations  and 
designs  for  a  50-ton  moon  rocket.  It  was  shown 
"possible  with  very  great  expenditure  of  labor,  ma- 
terials, and  money,  to  send  a  payload  of  10  kg  to 
the  moon.  (And  we  have)  demonstrated  that  it  is  not 
possible  in  principle  to  improve  on  this  very  low 
ratio  of  payload  to  total  weight  as  long  as  chemical 
propellants  are  used.  It  was  further  deduced  that  a 
rocket  capable  of  carrying  a  man  to  the  moon  and 
back  would  need  to  be  of  fantastic  size  and  weight  -- 
so  large  indeed,  that  the  project  could  be  classed  as 
impossible  ....  The  dream  of  human  beings  to  fly  tc 
the  stars  must,  as  far  as  we  can  see,  remain  a  dream.' 
(J.  Himpan  and  R.  Reichel,  "Can  We  Fly  to  the 
Moon?"  American  Journal  of  Physics,  May,  1949, 
262-263.) 


888888888888888888 

HE  O'NEILL  SCALE* 

3  not  fear.  You  are  not  about  to  be  exposed  to  a 
sertation  on  the  values  of  different  grading  sys- 
ns.  What  follows  is  a  grading  system,  but  it  will 
t  be  defended  or  criticized.  It  is  included  for  two 
isons.  First,  it  seems  like  a  reasonable  possibility. 
:ond,  it's  kind  of  cute, 
s  a  remarkable  simple  system.  Everything  is 
rked  with  a  number  from  one  to  five.  And 
it's  it. 

If  the  Score  is:       It  means  that  the  person 
evaluated: 
5  demonstrates  mastery 

4  demonstrates  competence 

3  suggests  competence 

2  suggests  incompetence 

1  demonstrates  incompetence 

0  died. 

INK  ABOUT  IT,  YOU  MIGHT  LIKE  IT! 
hanks  to  Professor  O'Neill,  Physics 

888888888888838888 


838388838388888883 

e  think  union  with  Polytech  (WPI)  would  be  a 
d  thing,  but  it  isn't  worth  going  to  Worcester  for. 

--Spokesman  for  MIT,  1910 
333838883388833833 


833388383338338838 

If  you  stay  with  a  problem  long  enough  you  will 
;t  the  answer.  It  may  not  be  the  one  you  ex- 
acted, but  chances  are  it  will  be  the  truth.  If  you 
■ally  want  to  learn  anything  from  an  experiment, 
lange  only  one  condition  at  a  time, 
ever  hesitate  to  try  a  hunch.  If  it  turns  out  OK, 
le  theoretical  chap  will  tell  you  why. 
practice  and  theory  don't  agree,  investigate  the 
leory." 

-Observations  of 
Prof.  Charles  Allen,  WPI 

38888888888888888® 


dress  has  to  enchance  the  wearer;  the  engine  has  to  drive  the  plane. 
A  design  may  be  very  beautiful,  but  it  is  not  art;  a  design  has  to  do 
something.  The  artist  works  to  make  a  kind  of  visual  statement  that 
has,  for  him,  some  important  connection  with  reality  as  he  perceives 
it.  The  designer  needs  a  client  to  present  a  problem,  and  a  factory  to 
make  his  design  in  quantity. 

The  scientist  believes  that  problems  can  be  solved  with  his  intellectual 
equipment  plus  instruments.  His  answers  are  always  quantifiable.  The 
designer  goes  along  with  this  to  a  great  extent,  but  he  also  relies  on 
the  evidence  of  his  senses  and  his  intuition.  So  his  work  falls  some- 
where between  art  and  science. 

A  very  bad  reason  for  the  confusion  about  design  is  the  prevailing 
notion  that  it  is  a  kind  of  frosting,  an  aesthetic  overlay  that  makes 
humdrum  objects  more  appetizing.  No  responsible  designer  believes 
this.  In  nature,  organic  designs  (our  best  models)  never  show  decora- 
tion that  isn't  functional,  never  show  the  slightest  concern  for  aesthe- 
tics, and  always  try  to  match  the  organism  with  its  environment  so 
that  it  will  survive. 

Misconceptions  about  design  also  arise  because  modern  technology 
isolates  so  many  people  from  the  processes  of  designing  and  making. 
Considering  how  little  we  are  taught  about  such  things,  autos  and 
stereo  sets  might  just  as  well  grow  on  trees.  Technological  society  has 
created  the  visual  illiterate,  a  new  barbarian  who  thinks  people  have 
eyes  so  that  they  can  tell  when  traffic  lights  turn  red  or  green,  and 
who  lacks  the  faintest  idea  of  how  his  complex  environment  is  put 
together. 

One  way  to  learn  something  about  design  is  to  dust  off  your  old 
college  text  for  Biology  I  and  read  about  the  way  the  forms,  structures, 
and  colors  of  organisms  relate  to  what  they  do.  Another  is  to  look 
around  and  ask  questions: 

Why  do  perfectly  good  metal  station  wagons  have  panels  of  fake 
wood? 

If  you  went  through  the  house  looking  for  honest  designs,  would 
you  find  more  in  the  kitchen  or  the  living  room? 

Why  are  so  many  big  TV  sets  encased  in  phony  antique  credenzas? 
If  you  have  one,  why  did  you  buy  it? 

How  do  you  feel  about  "Louis  XV"  chairs  of  injection  -  molded 
plastic,  or  supersonic  steam  irons? 

If  you  were  offered  the  choice  of  a  free  trip  to  London,  Paris, 
Zurich,  Venice,  and  Rome,  or  a  tour  of  the  twelve  biggest  shopping 
centers  in  the  U.S.,  which  would  you  choose?  Why? 

Designs  have  a  curious  quality,  one  that  practically  nobody  knows 
anything  about.  They  can  be  "read,"  just  like  a  magazine,  and  they 
never  lie.  When  the  Victorian  nouveau  riche  built  a  suburban  mansion 
that  looked  like  a  castle  on  the  Rhine,  the  neighbors  knew  he  was  not 
a  German  feudal  lord  but  just  a  guy  scrambling  up  the  social  ladder. 
It  is  worthwhile  to  learn  to  decode  the  messages  in  objects  -  they  are 
full  of  information  about  the  state  of  the  society. 

If  you  start  reading  the  objects  in  your  environment,  whether  build- 
ings or  strip  developments  or  manhole  covers  or  consumer  items,  and 
the  result  makes  you  feel  slightly  ill,  don't  worry.  It  just  means  that 
you  are  well  on  the  way  to  visual  literacy." 

I  think  that  Mr.  Nelson  has  a  lot  to  say  to  us  at  WPI.  Good  design  is 
based  on  sound  methodology  (courses),  but  good  design  integrates  and 
transcends  the  methodology  to  achieve  a  new  whole.  Anyway,  we  want 
to  get  more  of  the  creative  dimension  into  our  project  work  here.  That 
doesn't  mean  that  scientific  principles  can  be  ignored.  Some  beautiful 
creative  technology,  clipper  ships  of  the  past  and  some  jet  airplanes  of 
today,  are  certainly  examples  of  beautiful  creative  solutions.  But  their 
beauty  is  in  good  part  because  of  the  need  to  satisfy  scientific  and  tech 


53 


ittie  Dit  nungry  tot  wnax  mey  ve  got  xo  oner,  t  uu  miyni  wmu  iu  u  y 
the  Pub  some  Friday  afternoon.  It's  amazing  the  people  that  turn  up 
there. 

Once  you  find  out  what  you  want  to  do,  the  rest  is  easy.  I'm  not 
saying  that  you  won't  have  doubts,  but  the  hard  part  will  be  over.  Then 
when  you  start  to  get  guilt  feelings  about  the  money  you're  spending 
lere,  you'll  at  least  be  pretty  sure  you're  doing  something  worthwhile, 
something  that's  important  to  you. 

If  when  you  get  out  of  here  you  feel  as  if  you  could  have  learned  it 
all  on  your  own,  then  you  have  mastered  the  fine  art  of  self-learning. 
Practice  learning  on  your  own;  it'll  give  you  confidence.  Don't  hesitate 
to  expose  yourself  to  new  ideas.  Look  through  professional  journals  in 
your  field  and  others.  You  may  not  understand  a  whole  lot  at  first,  but 
you  can  keep  an  eye  on  what  the  real  world  is  doing.  Independent  stud- 
ies are  a  nice  way  to  round  out  your  experience.  It  can  really  build  up 
your  confidence  because  so  often  you'll  do  something  you  never  thought 
you  could.  A  graduation  class  was  once  told:  "A  degree  from  even  the 
best  of  universities  is  not  an  inside  track  to  success;  it  is  just  a  hunting 
license  to  go  out  and  find  the  kind  of  career  satisfaction  you  are  willing 
to  earn."  So,  keep  your  eyes  open! 

Technical  expertise  will  only  take  you  so  far.  Engineers  aren't  shuf- 


a  lot  of  group  effort,  and  you  have  to  get  along  with  people.  Thi  j 
way  to  get  along  with  other  people  is  to  get  along  with  yourself,  i 
do  that  you  have  to  know  yourself.  Socrates  said  that  an  unexar 
life  is  no  life  at  all.  Again,  expose  yourself  (not  indecently)!  Par 
can  be  done  in  your  humanities  sufficiency,  but  it  shouldn't  stO|| 
by  any  means.  If  you  expose  yourself  to  new  ideas,  even  if  you  J 
agree  with  them,  you've  opened  new  windows  into  the  world.  N 
are  a  form  of  freedom.  If  you've  been  exposed  to  new  ideas,  yoii 
choice  of  adopting  them,  or  just  accepting  them  as  someone  else 
osophy,  or  you  can  reject  them  completely.  But  at  least  you  havs 
choice,  which  is  what  freedom  is  all  about.  If  you  never  heard  oil 
that  outlook  you  have  no  choice.  One  book  I  am  pretty  impress' 
is,  How  I  Found  Freedom  In  An  Unfree  World,  by  Harry  Brown 
has  some  strange  ideas;  they're  not  right  for  everyone.  But  if  you 
his  book  you  can  reject  him  as  a  fool,  say,  okay,  that's  fine  for  \r\ 
you  can  adopt  some  of  his  ideas.  If  you've  read  it  you  have  the  c 
This  college  has  a  lot  to  offer,  you  just  have  to  take  it.  Person 
think  the  school  motto  should  be  changed  to  "the  more  you  put 
the  more  you'll  get  out  of  it."  I  wonder  how  that  would  translat 
Latin.    Excuse  me  .  .  . 


RATE  YOUR  ADVISOR 


Far  Exceeds 
Requirements 

Exceeds 
Requirements 

Meets 
Requirements 

Needs  Some 
Improvement 

Doesn't  Meet 

Minimum 
Requirements 

Communication 

You  have  a 
telepathic  link 

You  know  his 
home  phone 
number 

You  can  find 
him  in  his 
office 

Hasn't  been  in 
his  office  for 
three  weeks 

Calls  you  Joe 
when  your 
name  is  Lois 

Personal 
Problems 

Pays  for  a 
Psychiatrist 
in  Boston 

Sends  you  to  a 

Psychiatric 

Clinic  in  Worcester 

Sends  you  to 
WPI  counselor 

Sends  you  to 
your  RA 

Tells  you  that 
you're  a 
pervert 

Sufficiency 
Topic   -  Mystic 
Influences 
in  Modern 
Literature 

Gets  in  touch 
with  Carlos 
Castenada 
for  you 

Watches 
Star-Trek 
with  you 

Offers  to  advise 
although  he 
doesn't  know 
much  about 
the  subject 

Laughs  when 
you  suggest 
subject 

Thinks  mystic 
phenomena  is 
some  kind  of 
masking  tape 

Competency 
Exam 

Convinces  your 
board  you  are 
so  good  that 
you  can  skip 
it 

Brings  you  three 
home-cooked 
hot  meals  a  day 
during 
competency 

Advises  you 
what  he  feels  you 
need  to  pass  it 
and  helps  you 
learn  it 

Prepares  you  by 
making  sure  you 
take  courses  in 
1965 
curriculum 

Tells  you  that 
you'll  never 
pass  it  and 
suggests  30 
more  courses 

Projects 

Helps  you  to 

publish  your 

projed  repoi  t 
m  prestige 

journal 

Visits  you  at  G.E. 
in  Schnectady 
during  your 
MQP  project 

work  there 

Suggests  a 
challenging 
problem  and 
gives  you  ideas 
when  you  get 
stuck 

Sends  you  on  a 
project  at  DEC 
and  doesn't  see 
you  again  until 
you  hand  in  your 
report 

When  you  find  an 
ingenious  but  simple 
way  to  do  MQP  he 
decides  that  project 
now  isn't  challenging 
enough  for  MQP 

JUNE  3-6 

Reunion  Classes:  1916,  1921,  1926,  1931,  1936,  1941,  1946,  1951,  1956,  1961 
All  these  classes  have  received  detailed  schedule  and  reservation  information 
through  their  class  mailings. 


SCHEDULE: 


Friday,  June  4  "Good  Old  Days  Get-together"  at  the  Goat's  Head  Pub 
(Sanford  Riley),  9  pm  -  1  am.  Banjo  Band,  draught 
beer,  wine  &  peanuts. 

Saturday,  June  5      Reunion  Luncheon  and  Awards  Presentation  on  the 
lawn  of  the  Higgins  House. 

All  through  the  weekend      Campus  tours,   Worcester  Art  Museum  tour,  class 

parties  and  dinners,  access  to  the  gym,  pool  and 
tennis  courts. 


Inexpensive  campus  housing  available 

Call  or  write  the  Alumni  Office  with  reservations  or  questions. 


J 


W 


August  1976 


lUPpuMnsi 


mpjpMJMJ 


Vol.  80,  No.  1 


August  1976 


3  On  the  hill 

4  The  odyssey  of  Jim  Aceto 

New  England  weather  was  never  like  this! 

6         I  love  Paris  in  the  springtime  . .  . 

8         Reunion 

One  definition  of  this  annual  event 

14       Atwater  Kent,  WPI's  forgotten  millionaire 

John  Wolkonowicz,  '73,  tells  the  story  of  this  early  giant 
of  the  radio  industry. 

26       Your  class  and  others 

35       Completed  careers 


:  or.  H.  Russell  Kay 

I  rmi  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

1  lications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
J  '51,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57; 
-  "iard  Brzozowski,  74;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
f  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
)  '45;  Rev  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

"-  <gn:  H.  Russell  Kay 

r  ography  and  Printing: 
J  House  of  Offset, 
>'ierville,  Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  JOURNAL,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright©  1976  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October,  Decem- 
ber, February,  and  April.  Second  Class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Postmaster-  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alum- 
ni Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.A.  Julian,  '49 
R.A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President:  W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B.  E. 
Hosmer,  '61;  L.  Polizzotto  70;  J. A.  Palley, 
'46;  J.  L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.H.  White,  '41;  G.A.  Anderson,  '51;  H.I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  1 


'      «  If1*! 


r>  r*v£ 


ii  ii  .j 

^f 

||T/ 

,•   '.r 


■ 


EiBii 


by  the  editor 

udent  project  analyzes 
Timy  Carter 

vS  far  back  as  last  November," 
d  senior  Stann  Chanofsky,  "I 
i  a  feeling  Jimmy  Carter  would 
the  Democratic  candidate  in 

Stann  and  his  partners  Peter 
tlvihill,  '78,  and  David  Wolfe, 
,  built  their  interactive  degree- 
ilifying  project  around  the  Demo- 
tic primary  campaigns  in  New 
gland  during  the  last  year. 
'We  started  out  to  determine  if 
how  the  various  candidates  might 
nge  their  positions  as  the  pri- 
ry  campaign  went  on  over  several 
nths,"  explained  Stann.  "We 
eotaped  their  speeches  and  press 
ierences,  we  collected  their 
rature  and  kept  the  press  clip- 
gs. 

'Very  early  on  in  the  project,  we 
an  to  zero  in  on  Carter,  who  was 
itively  unknown  a  year  ago.  His 
lpaign  people  were  able  to  pro- 
e  more  background  information 
n  most.  We  obtained  copies  of 
position  papers  last  October, 
ich  we  felt  disproved  many  of  the 
rges  that  he  was  'fuzzy'  on  the 
les.  We  also  got  a  great  deal  of 
ght  into  what  Carter  is  really  like 
m  his  autobiography. 
'Carter  is  a  very  ambitious  man 
d's  willing  to  work  twice  as  hard 
nost  people.  He  does  his  home- 
rk.  He's  a  good  organizer.  His 
ipaign  strategy  has  been  to 
•italize  on  his  assets.  He  under- 
ids  the  mood  of  the  people  who 
1  vote  in  November,  and  he  has 
red  his  campaign  to  the  concerns 
feels  are  uppermost  in  the  minds 
the  voters. 


1  really  got  excited  about  politics 
during  this  project,  and  I  guess 
from  now  on  I'll  always  have  a 
strong  interest  in  campaigns.  I'll  cer- 
tainly be  following  this  fall's  ac- 
tivities with  special  interest,"  said 
Stann.  "And  I'll  probably  be  out 
there  working  for  Jimmy  Carter." 

A  moving  experience 

Between  the  completion  of  the  Salis- 
bury Labs  renovation  and  the  begin- 
ning of  the  administration's  exodus 
from  Boynton  Hall,  the  summer  of 
'76  has  been  a  busy  one  on  campus. 
Thousands  of  cardboard  boxes  were 
filled,  transported,  emptied,  refilled, 
transported  across  campus  once 
again,  emptied.  .  .  .  Moving  vans 
criss-crossed  the  campus,  working 
according  to  a  complex  schedule 
that  coordinated  the  vacating  of 
each  office  with  its  subsequent  re- 
occupation.  Plus  figuring  in  the 
completion  of  the  Salisbury  work, 
some  necessary  changes  in  the  con- 
figurations of  the  various  office 
spaces,  plus  some  new  construction. 

Shown  below,  humanities  pro- 
fessor David  McKay  typifies  the 
summer's  major  activity  as  he  un- 
packs his  books  into  his  new  Salis- 
bury office. 

Moving,  somehow,  is  never  very 
much  fun.  It  involves  a  lot  of  dis- 
ruption, countless  decisions  of  the 
"keep  or  throw?"  variety,  and  a 
heap  of  work.  The  best  part  of 
moving,  though,  is  one  your  editor 
can  sympathize  with.  As  far  as  I'm 
concerned,  at  least,  it's  now  over. 
Until  Boynton  is  finished. 


The  Russians  are  coming 
. . .  again 

Professor  Alvin  H.  Weiss,  WPI's 
globetrotting  chemical  engineer  who 
has  been  to  the  Soviet  Union  and 
Israel  (on  business)  in  recent  years, 
played  host  to  four  Soviet  scientists 
this  June.  The  guests  were  Weiss's 
Russian  counterparts  in  a  joint  US- 
USSR  space  research  project.  (Weiss 
is  the  US  coordinator.)  The  group  is 
developing  chemical  techniques 
using  catalysis  to  recycle  the  exhaled 
breath  of  astronauts  into  edible 
sugars  to  save  weight  on  long  space 
voyages. 

Shown  touring  the  WPI  campus, 
above,  are,  from  left,  Dr.  Valentin 
A.  Golodov  of  the  Institute  of  Or- 
ganic Catalysis  and  Electrochemistry 
at  the  Academy  of  Sciences;  Prof. 
Michael  M.  Sakharov,  project  coor- 
dinator of  Life  Support  Systems  at 
the  Institute  of  Chemical  Physics; 
Dr.  Weiss;  Prof.  Alexander  E. 
Shilov,  project  coordinator  for 
Catalysis  by  Coordinating  Com- 
plexes and  Organometallic  Com- 
pounds at  the  Institute  of  Chemical 
Physics;  and  Dr.  Yuriy  G.  Borodko 
of  the  Institute  of  Chemical  Physics. 

Dr.  Golodov  and  Dr.  Borodko 
are  prospective  participants  in  the 
program,  which  will  involve 
residence  at  WPI  for  several  months 
under  the  terms  of  the  international 
project  agreement.  Dr.  Weiss  recent- 
ly received  an  additional  $35,000 
grant  from  the  National  Science 
Foundation  to  continue  the  project. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  3 


The  Odyssey  of  Jim  Aceto 


II 


Part  I:  60  below  zero 


"Wanted:  Civil  engineers  to  work  on 
Alaskan  pipeline.  10  hours  a  day,  7 
days  a  week.  Three  hours  of  daylight 
daily.  Temperature  approximately  60 
degrees  below  zero.  Trailer  accommo- 
dations and  meals  provided." 


James  D.  Aceto,  '75  didn't  actually  find  this  classified  in 
his  local  newspaper,  but  he  and  nine  other  recent  WPI 
graduates  did  hear  about  similar  civil  engineering  posi- 
tions which  were  open  in  Alaska  last  fall,  and  in  view  of 
the  spotty  job  market  in  New  England,  decided  to  take  a 
chance. 

"The  office  of  graduate  and  career  plans  gave  us  the 
details,"  says  Aceto.  "We  were  hired.  And  (surprise) 
we're  not  sorry!" 

Aceto,  home  on  a  long  Christmas  break,  looks  re- 
markably warm  in  his  short-sleeved  cotton  shirt  as  the 
mid-winter  Massachusetts  wind  whips  up  a  60-mile-per- 
hour  gale  outside  the  picture  window  in  back  of  him. 
The  outdoor  thermometer  shudders  around  0. 

"Almost  like  spring,"  he  quips  with  a  grin  as  the  win- 
dow threatens  to  shatter.  "Where  we  work,  this  wind 
would  be  a  breeze.  But  I'm  not  complaining.  We  like 
Alaska.  It's  quite  an  adventure." 

Aceto,  Robert  J.  Ankstitus,  Peter  J.  Arcoma,  Steven 
H.  Coes,  Robert  J.  Donle,  Karl  E.  Hansen,  Michael  S. 
Schultz,  James  C.  Sweeney  and  Alexander  V.  Vogt,  who 
graduated  last  year,  and  Scott  R.  Blackney,  '73  have 
been  working  as  soils  engineers  with  Alaskan  Resource 
Science  Corp.  of  Fairbanks. 

"But  except  for  Donle,  we  don't  work  in  Fairbanks," 
Aceto  quickly  explains.  "Vogt,  Arcoma  and  I  are  based 
at  Camp  Dietrich  about  300  miles  north  of  Fairbanks  on 
the  south  side  of  the  Brooks  Mountain  Range.  The 
others  are  based  at  other  camps  along  the  pipeline.  As 
field  engineers,  however,  we  all  have  basically  the  same 
job." 

Their  main  duty  is  to  take  soil  samples  for  the  above- 
ground  section  of  the  pipeline,  under  what  most  laymen 
would  consider  awesome  conditions. 

"We  uork  10  hours  a  day,  7  days  a  week,"  Aceto 
reports.  "The  temperature  generally  fluctuates  between 
43  and  65  degrees  below  zero.  Also,  there  are  only  three 
daylight  hours  during  our  work  period,  since  in  Alaska 
there  .ire  about  21  hours  of  darkness  daily  in  winter.  The 
wind  blows  all  the  time." 


What  about  snow? 

"Oh,  it's  too  cold  to  snow,"  he  replies.  "We  get  or 
about  a  foot  up  there." 

Because  of  the  almost  constant  darkness  and  inclem 
weather,  special  generators  have  been  built  beside  the 
pipeline  to  provide  adequate  lighting. 

"We  have  to  keep  ourselves  warm,  though,"  Aceto 
reveals.  "Most  of  us  wear  long  Johns,  corduroy  and 
down  pants,  and  down  jackets  and  parkas.  Also,  face 
masks  which  cover  up  everything  except  the  eyes.  Boot 
are  very  important.  I  have  special  Air  Force  boots  whit 
keep  my  feet  warm  at  65  below  zero  with  just  one  pair 
of  socks.  I  bought  them  in  North  Conway,  N.H.,  for  1 
$40  before  I  left  home,"  he  continues.  "Good  thing,    ' 
too.  The  same  pair  costs  $100  in  Fairbanks!" 

The  engineers  are  also  responsible  for  keeping  their 
pickup  trucks  warm.  "We  have  to  keep  them  running  I 
the  time  we're  working,"  says  Aceto.  "If  we  don't,  tW, 
freeze  up,  sometimes  in  just  a  few  minutes.  This  can 
mean  real  trouble  since  we  usually  work  about  40  miles 
away  from  camp  and  the  trucks  are  our  only  means  of 
transportation." 

In  spite  of  such  extraordinary  working  conditions, 
Aceto  hastens  to  confide  that  his  Alaskan  experience  h. 
been  far  from  bad. 

"The  company  has  been  generous,"  he  admits.  "It 
flys  us  home  and  back  and  has  provided  a  comfortable 
unitized  trailer  complex  for  us  at  Camp  Dietrich.  We 
have  two-room  trailer  units  which  adjoin  the  main  hall 
On  our  time  off  we  enjoy  the  latest  movies,  a  recreatio 
hall,  gym,  and  computerized  game  machines,  all  of 
which  are  free.  We  have  a  closed-circuit  TV  room  whei 
we  are  able  to  view  taped  commercial  shows,  as  well  asiJ 
camp  radio  station.  The  food  is  really  good.  Steak,  thrb 
or  four  times  a  week.  Our  only  problem  is  that  on  our 
days  off,  if  we've  been  sleeping,  it's  so  dark  out  we 
can't  tell  if  it's  breakfast  time  or  dinner  time  until  we  m 
to  the  table!" 

The  closest  town  to  camp  is  Wiseman,  fifteen  miles 
away.  About  fifteen  people  live  there  in  log  cabins.  So 
the  men  and  women  of  Dietrich  have  to  provide  their 
own  entertainment.  There  simply  isn't  any  close  by. 

Occasionally,  after  flights  to  Alaska  from  home,  the 
engineers  get  a  few  days  off  in  Fairbanks.  "An  ex- 
pensive, wide  open  city."  comments  Aceto.  "Sort  of  lil 
the  old  gold  rush  towns,  I  hear." 


4 


WPI  Journal 


, 


What  he  remembers  most  about  Fairbanks,  though,  is 
the  impenetrable  "ice  fog",  a  blanket  of  suspended  ice 
particles,  which  besets  the  city  when  the  temperature 
rises  above  30  degrees  below  zero.  "It's  caused  by  the 
exhausts  of  so  many  cars,"  Aceto  reports.  "You  can't 
see  a  thing  through  it.  I  walked  four  miles  from  a  movie 
through  one  of  those  Fairbanks  fogs  once,  and  at  the 
end  I  was  numb  all  over." 

For  a  moment  Jim  Aceto's  bare  arms  look  slightly 
goosebumpy  as  he  remembers. 

Then  he  smiles,  "Still  got  a  couple  more  weeks  of  va- 
cation left  before  I  go  back,"  he  announces  suddenly. 

Naturally,  anyone  on  leave  from  Alaska  would  be 
heading  for  sunny  climes.  Fort  Lauderdale  or  Bermuda, 
perhaps.  To  catch  a  few  of  the  rays.  To  get  that  frozen 
Fairbanks  fog  out  of  his  nostrils.  Naturally. 

"Yeah,"  Aceto  muses  aloud.  "Going  to  get  some  sun 
and  blue  sky."  (Naturally!)  "Going  skiing!" 


'art  II: 

0,000  miles  away  and  160  degrees  warmer 


ice  Part  I  was  written,  Jim  Aceto  has  jumped  out  of 
:  freezer  and  into  the  fire,  or,  to  be  more  explicit, 
>m  Alaska  to  Saudi  Arabia.  And  the  spring  transfer 
rdly  caused  him  to  bat  an  eyelash,  in  spite  of  the  fact 
it  his  blood  must  have  thinned  a  mite  rapidly! 
Now,  minus  his  long  underwear  and  insulated  boots, 
n  serves  in  the  searing  sun  of  Saudi  Arabia  as  a  civil 
^erintendent  for  Holmes  &  Narver,  Inc.  The  company, 
adquartered  in  Dhahran,  is  building  a  construction 
np  to  house  some  7000  people  (6000  bachelors  and 
>  families).  The  site  covers  about  220  acres.- Jim's 
iction  is  to  supervise  all  earth  work  on  the  site. 
'Mainly  I  give  directions  to  the  contractor  and  help 
n  solve  problems,"  Jim  reports.  "I  also  supervise  the 
uring  of  all  the  concrete  foundations  for  the  modular 
ildings.  Once  they  start  the  sewer  and  water  lines,  I'll 
ve  to  keep  an  eye  on  that,  too." 
Jim  and  the  crew  are  on  the  job  10  hours  a  day,  six 
ys  a  week.  They  work  for  four  months  and  then  get  a 
o-week  vacation  plus  a  plane  ticket  from  Dhahran  to 
>ndon  and  back.  "Not  bad,"  he  writes.  "All  in  all  it's 
)retty  good  deal." 

There  are  a  few  local  peculiarities  that  Jim  has  to  get 
;d  to.  He,  the  other  Americans,  and  the  British  are 
used  in  the  Aramco  Complex  about  55  miles  south- 
:st  of  Dhahran  in  the  Saudi  Arabian  town  of  Abqaiq. 
"Within  the  complex  itself,  it  is  much  like  a  town  in 
i  U.S.,"  he  says.  "There  are  tennis  courts,  a  movie 
;ater,  softball  field,  grade  school,  commissary,  and 
st  office.  Outside  of  the  complex,  it's  a  different 
)ry." 

Liquor  is  frowned  on  under  Muslim  rule  and  not  sold 
Abqaiq,  although  inside  the  complex  it  is  somewhat 
>ier  to  come  by.  To  alleviate  the  situation,  Jim  has 
en  making  wine  in  his  room. 


I      - 


"It's  a  lot  safer  than  going  outside  of  the  complex  for 
it,"  he  reveals.  "In  town  you  can  get  arrested  pretty 
easily  for  liquor  violations.  You  can  also  get  killed  just 
crossing  the  street!" 

Not  that  Abqaiq  is  necessarily  undergoing  a  crime 
wave.  Generally  it  is  a  rather  slow-moving  place  where 
goats  and  sheep  are  sold  in  the  streets,  bread  is  baked  in 
large  stone  ovens,  and  women  wear  black  veils  while  out 
for  a  walk. 

The  problem,  according  to  Jim,  is  that  the  motorists, 
who  are  more  familiar  with  driving  camels,  "don't 
usually  stop  at  red  lights  and  constantly  keep  their  feet 
on  the  gas  pedal  and  their  hands  on  the  horn.  It's  really 
amazing!" 

Aceto,  however,  appears  to  be  thriving  and  has  not 
yet  come  out  second  best  at  an  Abqaiq  intersection.  His 
current  intention  is  to  stay  in  Saudi  Arabia  until  1978. 
After  that,  who  knows  what  exotic  port  may  call  him? 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  5 


"I  love  Paris  in  the  springtime  . . ." 


Actually,  it  was  summertime. 

For  several  years  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion has  been  running  group  tours  for 
alumni  at  bargain  prices.  This  June  the 
destination  was  Paris — a  sort  of  bi- 
centennial "Lafayette,  we  are  here!" 

Peter  Blackford,  '70,  and  his  wife 
Sandy  were  among  the  1 15  alumni  and 
family  who  left  Boston  on  June  16. 
They  spent  six  days  enjoying  the  sights 
of  the  French  capital,  and  they  even 
found  time  for  a  special  side  trip  to  the 
24-hour  endurance  road  race  at  Le 
Mans. 

They  took  the  pictures  on  this  page 
especially  for  the  Journal,  to  share  some 
of  their  experiences  with  those  who 
couldn't  make  the  trip. 

P.S.  The  editor  chose  not  to  run  a 
picture  of  the  Eiffel  Tower.  You  already 
know  what  it  looks  like,  right? 

P. P.S.  Pete  and  Sandy  were  sorry  to 
leave  Paris — but  at  least  leaving  gave 
them  a  chance  to  catch  up  on  lost  sleep. 
You'd  be  amazed  how  much  activity 
you  can  pack  into  a  week  if  you  try! 


77 

•      • 

90EJJG 

a  181  \ 

.-> 

V|5 

1    -• 

ti^l1. 

L    . 

74194 


Top  left:  The  group  bus  leaves  Harrington  Auditorium,  first  leg  of  the 

trip 

Right:  A  gonuine  reproduction  of  a  Paris  Metro  (subway)  ticket 

Bottom  left:  A  scene  in  the  gardens  of  the  Musee  Rodin. 

Right:  Napoleon's  tomb. 


WPI  Journal 


HOM 
M 

HOM 
M 


""Friday,  October  8 

.Saturday,  October  9 
'10  am  to  4  pm 

11:30  am 

|11:30  am  to  1:30  pm 
|12  noon 

1:30  pm 
■4:15  pm 

4:15  pm 

Evening 
18:30 1 


Night  Club,  Harrington  Auditorium 


Homecoming  Registration  -  Baseball  Field 

Soccer,  WPI  vs  Clark 

Tailgate  Picnic  and  Barbecue* 

Cross  Country,  WPI  vs  Bates 

Football,  WPI  vs  Bowdoin 

Rope  Pull  -  Institute  Park 

Happy  Hour  for  Alumni  and  Friends  -  Higgins  Hous« 

Dinners  and  Parties  at  Fraternities 

Judy  Collins  in  Concert  -  HarrinatonAuditorium 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  7 


re«un«ion  (re-yoon'yen)  n.  1. 
The  act  of  reuniting.  2.  The 
state  of  being  reunited.  3.  A 
gathering  of  the  members  of  a 
group  who  have  been  separated. 


For  1976,  Reunion  was  a  special  sort  of  event.  Maybe  the 
bicentennial  year  had  something  to  do  with  it.  Maybe  it  was 
the  spectacular  weather.  Maybe  it  was  the  fact  that  more 
reunion  classes  than  ever  were  housed  on  campus  in  the 
Ellsworth,  Fuller,  and  Stoddard  residences,  where  they  could 
have  their  own  hospitality  suites.  Maybe  it  was  the  fun-loving 
spirit  of  the  Class  of  '26,  back  for  their  50th.  Maybe  it  was 
having  the  annual  luncheon  al  fresco,  on  the  spacious  lawn  of 
the  Higgins  House,  instead  of  in  the  gymnasium  atmosphere  of 
Harrington. 

Maybe  it  wasn't  any  of  those  things.  Maybe  it  was  all  of 
them  and  more  besides. 

But  it  seemed  apparent  that  everyone  was  really  relaxed  this 
year,  and  enjoying  themselves  even  more  than  usual.  Nearly 
500  people  returned  to  WPI  this  June.  The  weekend  was 
kicked  off  by  '26's  50th  reception  and  dinner  at  President 
Hazzard's  home  and  the  Higgins  House,  respectively,  on 
Thursday.  Fully  50  percent  of  the  living  members  of  the  class 
made  it  back  for  the  occasion.  The  "Good  Old  Days  Get- 
Together,"  held  on  Friday  night  for  the  fourth  straight  year, 
was  a  smashing  success  in  its  new  home  in  the  Sanford-Riley 
Pub.  The  weather  and  activities  on  Saturday  were  a  fitting 
climax  to  the  weekend. 

Reunion  is  many  things,  but  primarily  it  is  a  time  for 
celebration:  celebration  of  old  friends  and  old  friendships,  of 
the  familiar  places  on  campus,  of  the  old  memories  that  renew 
and  keep  alive  for  each  graduate  his  or  her  WPI  experience. 

h  is  also  a  time  to  celebrate  and  recognize  the  efforts  of 
others,  and  the  annual  awards  of  the  Alumni  Association  are 
an  important  part  of  the  weekend.  This  year  the  Herbert  F. 
Taylor  Award,  for  service  to  WPI  and  the  Association,  went 
to  Robert  E.  Higgs,  '40,  a  past  president  of  the  WPI  Alumni 

.iation,  and  Lincoln  Thompson,  '21,  a  past  vice  president 
of  the  Association  and  a  WPI  Trustee  Emeritus.  The  Robert 
H.  Goddard  Award,  for  outstanding  professional  achievement, 
uas  presented  lo  Leslie  J.  Hooper,  '24,  retired  director  of 
V\  Pi's  Alden  Research  Labs,  and  Donald  Taylor,  '49,  current- 
ly vice  president  of  Rexnord,  Inc.,  and  president  and  general 
manager  of  Rexnord's  Nordberg  Division  in  Milwaukee. 

A  very  special  honor,  the  WPI  Award,  was  given  for  the 
first  time.  It  was  presented  to  Milton  P.  Higgins,  chairman  of 
the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees,  on  the  25th  anniversary  of  his 
election  to  the  Board,  in  recognition  of  the  support,  concern, 
and  steady  leadership  he  has  provided  WPI. 

Ml  in  all,  it  was  one  tine  weekend. 


8  WPI  Journal 


p,  left:  Ted  Coe,  '31,  in  a  happy  moment.  Center:  Milt  Berglund, 
,  being  congratulated  and  thanked  by  President  Hazzard  for  the 
jest  class  gift  ever  announced  at  Reunion  —  $180,150,  including  a 
juest  of  $125,000  from  the  estate  of  Wallace  H.  Tucker.  Right:  Of 
two  alumni  talking  together,  the  one  at  right,  according  to  his 
ne  tag,  is  "Ra  Ra  '51."  Actually,  he's  Bob  Wolff,  who  was  gift 
lirman  for  the  class,  and  who  presented  $28,867  to  the  college. 
Jottom,  left:  Memories  to  take  back,  of  the  Class  of  '16. 
jht:  Rev.  Winthrop  Hall,  '02,  who  gave  the  luncheon  invocation, 
ixes  for  a  moment  on  the  Higgins  House  garden  steps. 


Top,  left:  Harold  Baines,  '26,  enjo 
the  festivities.  Right:  Bill  Cunninghar 
'77,  shows  a  group  of  alumni  and  far 
one  of  the  physics  labs  in  Olin  Hall. 

Middle,  left:  Carl  Backstrom,  '30, 
Larry  Larson,  '22,  and  Walter  Denner 
'18,  take  a  conversation  break. 
Right:  Stan  Miller,  reunion  chairman 
the  class  of  '51,  hams  it  up  for  the 
cameras  and  his  friends. 

Below:  Members  of  the  Class  of  '1 
at  their  40th  reunion.  Earlier  in  the  da 
George  Rocheford,  class  gift  chairma 
had  presented  the  class's  gift  of  $24,' 
to  WPI. 

Opposite  page:  Two  members  of 
Class  of  '16  relax  in  Daniels  Hall. 


W  WPI  Journal 


foi  mil  mti  or  co«« 
JORCESTFR    POIYIM 


*»•< 


MJ 


'■?  IVP/  Journal 


Opposite  page:  Two  views  of  the  Reunion  luncheon  on  the  Higgins 
lawn. 

Left:  Carl  Backstrom,  '30,  chairman  of  the  Citations  Committee,  with 
1976  Taylor  Award  winners  Bob  Higgs,  '40  (left),  and  Lincoln  Thomp- 
son, '21  (right). 

Middle:  ME  Prof.  Ken  Scott,  '48,  shows  off  the  new  TV  classroom 
in  his  audiovisual  center  in  Higgins  Lab. 

Bottom,  left:  Bernie  Danti,  '56  (center),  class  reunion  chairman, 
greets  a  classmate  with  obvious  delight.  Right:  Don  Taylor,  '49,  and 
Les  Hooper,  '24,  1976  recipients  of  the  Goddard  Award. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  13 


WPFs  Forgotten  Millionaire 


by  John  P.  Wolkonowicz,  '73 


•.  Kent,  of  the  Kent  Electric  Co.,  sojourned  with 
for  the  space  of  one  term,  during  which  time 
held  the  purse  of  the  class.  Either  the  duties 
d  cares  of  this  office  were  too  burdensome,  or 
;  outside  electrical  work  too  engrossing,  for  he 
led  to  appear  at  recitations  after  the  midyear 
ams.  More  self-confident  than  ever  in  his 
ility  to  bluff,  he  entered  the  Class  of  1900  in 
z  following  year;  and,  of  course,  his  relations 
th  us  became  more  or  less  indirect.  His  bluffs 
nked  well  for  a  time  (as  might  be  expected  in 
:lass  of  bluffers)  but  they  didn't  ''score  points" 


on  the  exams,  and  now  Arthur  devotes  the  most 
of  his  time  to  the  affairs  of  his  company.  A  good 
natured  fellow  with  a  pleasant  smile.  May  be 
seen  at  his  best  Sunday  evenings  at  Piedmont 
Church  receiving  the  offering  and  (he  fondly 
imagines)  the  admiration  of  the  young  ladies. 

—from  the  1899  Aftermath 

Kent  was  one  of  the  men  who  were  bequeathed 
to  us  by  the  class  of  '99,  but  he  did  not  like  our 
class  any  better,  and  left  after  a  short  stay. 

—from  the  1900  Aftermath 


n  June  1926,  Arthur  Atwater  Kent  returned  to 
WPI.  The  campus  had  changed  considerably  since 
left  Worcester  in  1900;  but  then  Mr.  Kent  had 
jiged  quite  a  bit  too.  When  he  left  WPI  in  the  spring 
1897,  he  was  told  that  without  a  diploma  from 
ech"  he  would  never  amount  to  anything.  Yet  now  he 
;  the  sole  owner  of  the  world's  largest  radio  manu- 
turing  company  and  had  returned  to  WPI  to  receive 
:  of  the  Institute's  first  honorary  doctorates, 
-lis  name  was  a  household  word  in  1926,  but  in  the 
;rvening  years  he  has  slipped  into  obscurity.  Let's 
k  more  closely  into  the  life  of  this  man,  still  probably 
i  of  the  most  famous  people  ever  to  have  attended 
>I. 

Arthur  Atwater  Kent  was  born  on  December  3,  1873, 
Burlington,  Vermont,  son  of  Prentiss  J.  and  Mary  E. 
e  Atwater)  Kent.  Young  Arthur  showed  his  mechan- 
1  inclination  at  an  early  age  by  taking  apart  his 
•ther's  sewing  machine.  No  doubt  the  fact  that  his 
her  was  a  machinist*  also  helped  sway  his  interest 
vards  mechanics  and  the  relatively  new  field  of  elec- 
:ity. 


Uater  Kent  and  his  staff  outside  his  Bel  Air,  California,  home  in 

^6.  Photo  by  Martha  Holmes,  Time-Life  Picture  Agency,  ©  Time  Inc. 


i  later  years,  when  submitting  his  biography  to  Who's  Who,  Mr. 
it  listed  his  father's  occupation  as  "physician."  The  Worcester  city 
jictories  between  1882  and  1901,  however,  list  the  occupation  of 
,  ntiss  J.  Kent  as  "machinist ." 


The  Kent  family  moved  to  Worcester  around  1881  and 
lived  in  four  different  locations,  the  longest  stay  being  at 
54  Illinois  Street.  Considering  young  Arthur's  mechani- 
cal inclination,  it  came  as  no  surprise  that  he  entered 
WPI's  freshman  mechanical  engineering  class  in  the  fall 
of  1895.  Arthur  was  elected  treasurer  of  the  Class  of  '99, 
but  he  held  this  position  for  only  one  semester  since  he 
did  not  show  up  for  recitations  after  the  mid-year  exams 
in  January  1896.  Although  he  excelled  in  elementary 
mechanics,  and  drawing,  he  was  rather  weak  in 
chemistry,  algebra,  and  language,  and,  furthermore, 
these  subjects  held  little  attraction  for  him.  He  was 
already  running  a  small  business  on  the  side,  and  his 
time  was  at  a  premium. 

Sometime  in  1895  he  founded  the  Kent  Electric  Manu- 
facturing Co.,  on  Hermon  Street  in  Worcester.  Adver- 
tisements from  this  era  indicate  that  his  first  products 
were  small  electric  motors  and  generators.  The  limited 
reference  sources  available  on  this  period  of  his  life  seem 
to  imply  that  this  first  manufacturing  venture  was  lo- 
cated in  the  back  room  of  his  father's  machine  shop. 


John  P.  Wolkonowicz,  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1973,  has  been 
collecting  antique  radios  and  related  items  for  ten  years.  His  collection 
presently  includes  20  Atwater  Kents  and  numerous  other  receivers.  He 
is  a  member  of  the  Antique  Wireless  Association  and  hopes  eventually, 
to  acquire  a  complete  collection  of  Atwater  Kent  receivers. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  15 


■rwmui  iciuincu  iu  wri  ui  me  tan  ui  loyo  10  join  me 
Class  of  1900.  He  fared  somewhat  better  this  time,  being 
elected  class  president  and  successfully  completing  the 
first  semester.  During  the  second  semester,  though,  final 
exams  again  brought  him  down  in  the  areas  of  mathema- 
tics and  language,  so  he  was  asked  to  withdraw.  At  this 
time,  he  was  told  he  could  continue  on  as  a  special  stu- 
dent if  he  would  promise  to  devote  more  time  to  his 
studies  and  spend  less  time  tinkering  with  his  experi- 
ments. This  proposition  held  little  appeal  for  Arthur, 
however,  so  he  left  WPI  to  devote  all  of  his  time  to  his 
business.  (The  WPI  Plan  came  exactly  75  years  too  late!) 

In  1900  he  moved  to  Lebanon,  New  Hampshire,  to 
supervise  manufacture  of  Kent  motors  for  Kendrick  & 
Davis,  makers  of  motors  and  watch  tools,  but  left  short- 
ly thereafter  to  sell  electrical  equipment  for  a  firm  in 
Brookline,  Massachusetts.  While  on  a  business  trip  to 
Philadelphia,  Kent  decided  again  to  start  his  own  com- 
pany. Philadelphia  looked  like  an  ideal  location  for  this 
venture. 

Thus  in  1902  he  founded  his  second  company,  the  At- 
water  Kent  Manufacturing  Works,  in  the  loft  of  a  rented 
building  at  6th  and  Arch  Streets.  Here  he  manufactured 
batteries,  battery  testers,  and  intercommunicating  tele- 
phone systems.  Legend  has  it  that  he  never  had  to  sweep 
the  floor  at  this  location  because  of  the  wide  cracks  be- 
tween the  boards. 

In  1905  Mr.  Kent  felt  prosperous  enough  to  purchase 
his  first  one-cylinder  automobile,  as  he  put  it,  "not 
being  married  and  not  having  to  conserve  cash."  The 
troubles  he  encountered  with  this  automobile  were  the 
beginnings  of  his  rise  to  fame  and  fortune.  By  the  end  of 
1905  he  was  manufacturing  automobile  timers,  trigger 
ignition  systems,  and  switches.  This  necessitated  a  move 
to  larger  quarters  on  Arch  Street. 

Within  a  few  months,  Mr.  Kent  .hit  upon  his  first  real 
invention,  the  Unisparker,  an  improved  automobile 
ignition  system  which  integrated  the  usual  series  of  weak 
sparks  into  a  single  hot  spark  for  ignition.  The  AK  Uni- 
sparker combined  contact  points,  condenser,  centrifugal 
advance  mechanism,  and  distributor  into  one  compact 
unit  to  be  used  in  conjunction  with  an  ignition  coil.  This 
was  basically  the  same  type  of  ignition  system  used  in 
most  cars  until  the  recent  adoption  of  electronic  ignition. 
For  this  achievement,  Kent  was  awarded  the  John  Scott 
Legacy  Medal  and  Premium  by  the  Franklin  Institute  in 
1914. 


{!♦•♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦•♦-♦•■»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦♦♦♦  »»♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦« 

KENT  DRUM  AR>1/VTIRE  BATTERY  FAN  MOTORS  1 


:  No  Rattling 

of 
:  Armature. 


Nickel 
Trimmings 


Gives  strong, 

steady 

Breeze, 

10  in.  Fan. 

Price,  $6.00 


KENT  ELECTRIC  MFG.  CO,, 


IB     HCRMON     ST,   I 

*oronUr,     Maaa.     ♦ 

» » ♦  M  ♦  ♦  ♦  ♦  M  M  M  ♦  M  M  M  M  MM  M  I  M  I  M  M  M  M  M  M  ♦  ♦♦ 


By  1912,  the  success  of  the  Unisparker  forced  him  tc 
move  again,  this  time  to  a  much  larger  facility  on  Sten 
ton  Avenue  in  Philadelphia.  Soon,  self-starters  and 
lighting  systems  were  added  to  the  Atwater  Kent  line  o: 
automotive  products.  By  World  War  I,  the  Atwater  Ke 
Manufacturing  Works  was  large  enough  to  land  a  gov 
ernment  contract  for  the  manufacture  of  fuse  setters, 
clinometers,  and  panoramic  sights  for  machine  guns. 


Above:  1902  Monoplex  telephone  (photo  by  Alan  S.  Douglas). 
Below:  Advertisements  from  1898  (left)  and  1907. 
Opposite:  An  Atwater  Kent  ad  from  1912. 


WhatDotheOthc 
Sparks  Do? 


■ 


: 


TheAtwatei  I  Generatoi  makes  ONE spai 

foi    i  ich    ignition.      The    conventional    spark    coil  <••■•'■■ 
from  three  to  six  or  eight  sparks,  according  to  the  iBjl 

ol  thi  i  ngini    ind  of th.   trc  mbli  i        I  lie ■  I"  tv 

is  roughh   from  I  200  to  I  8U0  of  a    c<  ond,  rcpn    i  ntin| 
»00  i.  p.  in   i  rank  angles  ol  '.'7  and  1..  degree*   re:  pi  ctiw  | 
The  fusi  spark  lire-  the  charge. 

Before  tl»   n I  nil  |Css  the  Hit 

or   eighth,  the  flame  has  spread  through  the  m 
thi     pai  h  i  lug  ii  lurrounded  by  hoi 
I'ui  perfectly  di 

What,    indeed,    DO  the    othei 
di  i 
l  he    \> ■■■■  in)    "othei 
park     hoi  end  vigorous     whii  hi    DO 


SAVES  the  currei  r  coil 

Atwater    Kent    Manufacturing   Works 


^ix  in    simi  i. 


II    AMI    I    I'll  I  A.       P, 


16  WPI  Journal 


Atwater  Rent 
Ignition  System 


j  ot  only  distinctive  from  other  ignition  equipment  in 
le,  but  it  is  advantageously  different  from  all  others 
j  lany  respects. 

;  Other  ignition  equipment  have  the  distinction  with- 
I  the  difference. 

The  Atwater  Kent  System  is  different  in  embody- 
:  the  best  features  of  both  magneto  and  battery.  In 
\  ,   it   gives   magneto   results   with   a   battery   system, 

lout  the  weaknesses  of  either,  at  less  than  one-half 
3  cost  of  a  good  magneto. 

It  is  ideal  for  use  in  connection  with  lighting  and 
I  ting  equipment,  as  it  produces  a  hot  dynamic  spark, 
t  ectly  timed,  regardless  of  the  engine  speed. 

Just  a  few  of  the  many  good  features  of  the  Atwater 
J  t  System  are — 

Its  simplicity  of  mechanism — no  vibrators,  relays 
i  commutator — just  one  contact  point  regardless  of 
J  number  of  cylinders  and  only  three  moving  parts, 
c  ;  of  which  are  subject  to  excessive  wear. 

Its  single  adjustment  easily  and  quickly  made  and 
i  Dm  requiring  attention. 

•  Its  adaptability  and  easy  installation  on  any  stand- 
I  make  of  motor,  new  or  old. 

There  are  now  two  types  of  Atwater  Kent  Ignition 
I  pment — standard  Type  F  and  the  new  Type  K,  the 
i]  r  having  the  automatic  spark  control  and*  insulated 
r  ary  circuit  features. 


PRICES  OF  THE  TYPE  F  SYSTEM 


1  cylinder      .         . 

2  cylinder  opposed 

2  cylinder  distributor  type 

3  cylinder  distributor  type 

4  cylinder  distributor  type 

5  cylinder  distributor  type 


PRICES  OF  THE  TYPE  K  SYSTEM 


Standard 

Kick  Switch 

Coil 

Coil 

$17.00 

•     •     •     • 

18.00 

•     .     *     • 

22.00 

$24.00 

25.00 

27.00 

25.00 

27.00 

27.00 

29.00 

2  cylinder 

3  cylinder 

4  cylinder 
6  cylinder 


Standard  Coil 

$32.00 
35.00 
35.00 
37.00 


Kick  Switch 
Coil 

$35.00 
38.00 
38.00 
40.00 


In  substituting  the  Atwater  Kent  System  for  the 
magneto,  or  for  driving  it  from  any  horizontal  shaft  or 
gear,  we  furnish  a  special  magneto  gear  mounting,  the 
additional  price  of  which  is  $5.00. 


'  T'/PE  R  UNI*  DARKER  f 

O     r!S'D  PAT  1227-    OCT  1    «W  S 

"•NOV.22.I9CS  OEC.e.WtO      j 

V^I"ATENTS  PEND'KG.                 J 

Perhaps  your  present  car  needs  only  an  Atwater 
Kent— "the  different"^  system  of  ignition  to  enable  it 
to  give  you  perfect  service.     Anyhow  you  should  have 
a  copy  of  our  booklet  C — it's  interesting  and  it's  free. 

^rWATERffENTjilFG^bRKS 

4936  Stenton  Ave.                   Philadelphia,  Pa. 

WPI  Journal  1  August  1976  1  17 

After  the  war,  a  nationwide  economic  slump  affected 
many  businesses.  The  Atwater  Kent  Mfg.  Co.  was  no  ex- 
ception. In  an  effort  to  offset  this  slump,  Atwater  Kent 
entered  the  newly  emerging  field  of  radio  by  starting  the 
manufacture  of  headphones  in  1919.  At  this  time  his 
staff  numbered  about  125  people.  This  headphone  ven- 
ture proved  so  successful  that  the  company  introduced  in 
1922  a  more  complete  line  of  radio  components,  includ- 
ing transformers,  variometers,  variocouplers,  switches, 
tube  sockets,  and  sealed  amplifier  units.  This  new  line  of 
radio  apparatus  embodied  the  same  quality  and  crafts- 
manship which  had  made  the  name  Atwater  Kent  so 
respected  in  the  field  of  automotive  electrical  equipment. 


Mr.  Kent  made  his  first  complete  radio  re- 
ceiver in  the  attic  of  his  home  in  early  1922.  By 
January  1923,  "completely  wired  radio  receiving  sets" 
made  up  of  standard  AK  components  mounted  on 
mahogany  boards  were  being  advertised.  In  September 
1923,  Kent  manufactured  a  limited  number  of  special  re- 
ceivers for  distribution  to  his  ignition  system  whole- 
salers. This  was  the  famous  and  (now)  highly  sought  af- 
ter Model  5  which  contained  two  stages  of  untuned 
radio-frequency  amplification,  a  detector  and  two 
stages  of  audio  frequency  amplification  in  a  single 
container  about  8  inches  in  diameter.  This  self  contained 
unit  was  then  mounted  on  a  mahogany  board  along  with 
a  Type  1 1  tuner.  The  Model  5  never  really  got  into 
volume  production  however,  since  a  five  tube  tuned 
radio  frequency  receiver  of  superior  performance,  the 
Model  10,  was  introduced  at  about  the  same  time.  Evi- 
dently Kent  was  undecided  as  to  whether  the  public  wan- 
ted an  easy  to  use,  broad-tuning  receiver  (the  single-dial 
Model  5)  or  a  more  complex,  but  selective  receiver  (the 
throe-dial  Model  10).  He  therefore  introduced  both  re- 
ceivers but  quickly  shifted  production  entirely  to  the 
superior  Model  10. 


Top  left   The  1923  Model  10  receiver. 

Right,  top  to  bottom   Atwater  Kent's  1924  Model  12;  the  1924  Model 

20.  shown  with  the  Model  H  loudspeaker;  a  schematic  circuit  diagram 

of  tho  Model  20  Compact;  chassis  of  the  Model  20  Compact,  dating 

from  1925 

Opposite  page   An  advertisement  from  the  Literary  Digest  in  1924. 


Fig.  18.    Schematic  Wiring  Diagram  of  Model  20 
Compact  Set. 


18  WPl  Journal 


||||||ll»l"MIIIIIMIllinillllllN|niUlllllllllllll.lUliUMUUliiXllllillinillllllMM''''''''»''''''^U^iJ-U.l-UXUIIIIIllllLli  .11  1 1  mjmilLlLM  I:  1 1 1  1 1  I  I ,  U  MW  II  I  I  U  l_i  Ml  H/lil]  1J  II II J  II  I  1]  i  1  U  1  I !  H  I  I]  HI 


LOUD    SPEAKERS 


&MM 


Radio  Enjoyment 

THERE  is  a  delightful  surprise  in 
store  for  you — an  added  fascination 
in  radio  —  when  you  take  home  an 
Atwater  Kent  Loud  Speaker. 

Your  radio  receiver  provides  a  new 
and  always  interesting  form  of  enter- 
tainment—but you  will  find  that  the 
last  full  measure  of  radio  enjoyment 
comes  with  the  use  of  an  Atwater 
Kent  Loud  Speaker.  It  re-creates  each 
broadcast  into  rich  and  natural  tones 
and  in  ample  volume  thus  making  your 
radio  the  generous  family  entertainer 
you  want  it  to  be. 

Pure  in  tone,  the  Atwater  Kent 
Loud  Speaker  has  no  peer  in  the  re- 
production of  broadcasts.  Its  design, 
correct  in  every  detail,  is  the  result  of 
skilled  engineering  research.  Its  quality, 
characteristic  of  all  Atwater  Kent 
products,  is  the  reward  of  work  well 
done  plus  the  finest  materials  that 
money  can  buy.  Your  dealer  has  three 
models..  Take  one  home  today. 

Atwater  Kent  Manufacturing  Company 

4704  Wissahickon  Ave.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


Bring  Out  the  Best 
from  Any  Set 


iiiiiiiiiiuimiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiHiiniuiminr 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  19 


20  WPI  Journal 


inc  iviuuci  iv,  uiigiiidiiy  caucu  uic  j\.aunjuync,   w<w 

>  first  completely  wired  Atwater  Kent  receiving  set  to 
ch  volume  production.  Like  it's  predecessors  it  too 
s  made  up  of  standard  AK  components  mounted 
:adboard  style  on  a  polished  mahogany  board.  This 
eiver  proved  so  popular  that  it  remained  in  produc- 
n  through  1925  and  exists  in  countless  variations.  By 
ly  1924  the  radio  line  was  expanded  to  include  the 
lr-tube  Model  9,  the  six-tube  Model  12,  and  various 
Dnograph  attachments  and  horn-type  loudspeakers. 
vIid-1924  saw  the  Atwater  Kent  Manufacturing  Com- 
ly  so  far  behind  in  its  orders  that  ground  was  broken 
a  new  manufacturing  plant  covering  eleven  acres  on 
ssahickon  Avenue  in  Philadelphia's  Germantown  sec- 
i.  Many  modern  innovations  were  included  in  this 
lillion  dollar  plant.  Good  lighting  was  provided 
oughout,  and  offices  were  set  up  so  that  supervisors 
ild  keep  a  close  watch  on  the  lower  echelons  of  em- 
yees.  For  himself,  Kent  provided  a  complete  suite  of 
ices  including  a  dressing  room,  kitchen,  and  dining 
>m. 

toon  production  of  the  "Atwater  Kent  Scientific  Igni- 
q"  system  was  relegated  to  Stenton  Avenue,  with  all 
lio  manufacturing  concentrated  at  4700  Wissahickon 
enue.  Always  with  his  eye  out  to  the  future,  Mr.  Kent 
jght  up  much  of  the  land  surrounding  his  new  factory 
permit  expansion  at  a  future  date.  And  amidst  all  this 
ivity,  Kent  did  not  forget  his  employees.  In  1925  he 
sonally  financed  a  Welfare  Fund  to  tide  over  workers 
o  were  temporarily  laid  off  during  demand  fluctua- 
ris.  This  was  nearly  a  decade  before  Social  Security! 
)uring  the  mid- 1920s,  the  radio  art  was  developing  at 
everish  pace.  New  models  and  circuits  were  in- 
duced almost  weekly  by  the  more  than  200  manu- 
turers  who  had  entered  this  seemingly  lucrative  field, 
vas  not  unusual  for  a  receiver  purchased  at  this  time 
Decome  obsolete  within  six  months.  Radio  stations 
ang  up  all  over  the  country,  and  everyone  was  bitten 
the  "radio  bug."  From  a  modest  start  of  two  com- 
'cial  broadcasting  stations  in  1920  (Westinghouse's 
KA,  East  Pittsburgh,  and  the  Detroit  News'  WW  J), 
station  tally  grew  to  over  500  by  1925.  Newspapers 
oted  several  pages  each  evening  to  "Radiophone 
:  >adcasting,"  with  most  papers  having  program  listings 
stations  from  coast  to  coast.  The  Worcester  Evening 
'.  zette,  for  example,  had  regular  listings  for  station  KFI 
^os  Angeles. 

n  a  situation  like  this,  the  inferior  product  gets 
1  ;ded  out  rapidly.  Not  surprisingly,  the  name  Atwater 
1  it  forged  to  the  front  of  the  industry.  Between  the 
<  rs  of  1926  and  1929,  Atwater  Kent  was  the  world's 
;  >est  manufacturer  of  radio  receivers,  outselling  even 
giant  Radio  Corporation  of  America, 
liere  was  good  reason  for  this  leadership,  though, 
>  :e  Atwater  Kent  always  seemed  to  be  offering  just 
' at  the  public  wanted.  The  name  "Atwater  Kent 


'■  >osite:  Advertisement  dating  from  1925. 

*,■  page,  top  to  bottom:  Kent's  Wissahickon  Avenue  (Philadelphia) 
:  it  (this  photograph  taken  from  a  1925  WPI  Journal  article);  the  1926 
»  del  32,  with  the  Model  H  loudspeaker;  the  Model  35,  also  dating 
'  1  the  year  1926,  shown  with  the  Model  L  loudspeaker;  an  interior 
I  \i  of  the  Model  35. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  1 21 


ixauiu 


lH^'>' 


ivivij    UV.VUMH.    ao^uciaau    nun   a   Jjiv.ci3ivjii-iii  it 

product  at  a  fair  price.  AK  receivers  of  the  twenties  vre 
seldom  ornate,  probably  a  reflection  of  their  maker's 
New  England  upbringing.  Their  simplicity,  however,   j 
gave  them  the  appearance  of  fine  scientific  apparatus. 
Lacquered  polished  brass  and  shiny  brown  bakelite  cc  1- 
ponents  helped  reinforce  the  Atwater  Kent  aura  of 
precision.  Enclosed  receivers  were  housed  in  simple  bi 
tasteful  cabinets  highlighted  by  a  14-karat  gold-plated 
Atwater  Kent  nameplate,  sometimes  in  the  form  of  a  || 
full-rigged  sailing  ship.  Visitors  to  the  factory  watched 
awe  as  solid  gold  bars  were  dissolved  in  acid  to  suppbj 
plating  for  these  nameplates.  The  AK  guide  would  ex-| 
plain  simply,  "Mr.  Kent  ordered  it." 

For  the  Christmas  season  of  1924,  Atwater  Kent's  f| 
enclosed  receiver  the  Model  20,  was  introduced.  This 
was  basically  the  Model  10  redesigned  to  fit  into  a  cat 
net  26Vi  inches  wide,  9  inches  high,  and  %Vi  inches  do. 
As  popular  as  this  set  was,  Mr.  Kent  was  never  quite 
satisfied  with  it.  He  felt  that  a  radio  receiver  should  b< 
as  unobtrusive  as  possible  in  the  room  in  which  it  was 
placed.  Thus  in  1925  he  introduced  the  Model  20  Com 
pact,  a  receiver  electrically  identical  to  the  large  Model 
20  but  housed  in  a  cabinet  only  19  inches  wide,  6  inch« 
high,  and  6  inches  deep.  This  model  proved  such  a  sue 
cess  that  it  remained  in  production  through  1927  and 
paved  the  way  for  the  compact  receivers  of  today. 

Simplicity,  in  the  form  of  single-dial  tuning,  was  the 
next  problem  Atwater  Kent  chose  to  tackle.  Prior  to 
1926  it  was  necessary  to  adjust  three  dials  in  order  to 
tune  in  a  station  on  the  average  five-tube  TRF  receiver 
Atwater  Kent  solved  this  problem  by  connecting  the 
three  (or  four)  tuning  condensers  together  with  a  pulle} 
and  drive  belt  arrangement.  The  Model  30,  an  improve 
Model  20  Compact,  was  one  of  the  first  AK  receivers  tl 
incorporate  this  feature. 

1927  saw  the  introduction  of  the  first  AC-powered  A 
water  Kent,  the  Model  36.  Prior  to  this  date,  most  re-  , 
ceivers  operated  on  bulky  and  expensive  batteries.  (The 
vacuum  tubes  which  made  AC  operation  possible,  how 
ever,  were  developed  by  RCA.)  The  metal-enclosed 
Model  37  AC  receiver  followed  the  36  in  late  1927.  Its 
1928  revision,  the  Model  40,  was  probably  the  most 
common  radio  receiver  produced  in  the  1920s;  more  tha 
2,000,000  were  manufactured  in  1928  and  1929.  Such 
popularity  is  not  surprising;  the  Model  40  offered  $150, 
performance  for  $77,  and  it  had  the  Atwater  Kent 
reputation. 


By  1929  the  Atwater  Kent  Manufacturing 
Company  was  at  its  peak.  Nearly  one  million  se(| 
were  turned  out  that  year,  worth  more  than  $60  million 
Atwater  Kent's  payroll  now  topped  12,000  employees, 
and  the  future  looked  so  bright  that  a  giant  addition  wf 
begun  on  the  Wissahickon  Avenue  plant.  Production 
began  in  this  new  addition  even  before  the  cornerstone  ! 
was  placed. 

At  the  June  1929  Radio  Manufacturers  Association 
Trade  Show  in  New  York,  the  company  introduced  a 
new  line  of  receivers  containing  the  most  sweeping 
changes  in  AK  history.  Gone  were  the  polished  brass  an[ 
gleaming  brown  bakelite.  In  their  place  were  brushed 


22  WPI  Journal 


7  % 


iminum  shielding  cans  on  a  modern  punched-steel 
assis.  Screen-grid  tubes,  full  shielding,  push-pull  out- 
t,  and  an  electrodynamic  loudspeaker  were  only  a  few 
the  advanced  features  found  on  the  new  Model  55. 
r  the  first  time,  a  complete  line  of  consoles  was  also 
lilable.  After  buying  the  Model  55  chassis  the  pur- 
iser  could  then  select  from  a  wide  array  of  highboy, 
vboy,  table,  and  desk-type  cabinets  of  contemporary 
period  design  to  make  his  new  Atwater  Kent  the  focal 
int  of  the  living  room.  Orders  poured  in,  and 
xcasts  for  1930  looked  brighter  than  ever.  Until  Oc- 
)er  29,  1929. 

rhe  stock  market  crash  ended  Atwater  Kent's  halcyon 
i  quite  abruptly.  Orders  placed  a  few  weeks  earlier 
re  quickly  cancelled.  New  orders  became  increasingly 
ice.  In  hopes  of  stimulating  business,  a  new  model 
s  readied  for  the  1930  trade  show.  "The  Radio  with 
Golden  Voice"  (Model  70)  debuted  in  June  1930 
i,  while  moderately  popular,  could  not  stimulate  sales 
;k  to  their  earlier  levels.  The  years  1931-36  saw  a  suc- 
sion  of  new  models  (including  automobile  radios), 
h  with  that  year's  latest  advances  and  all  with  the 
ditional  Atwater  Kent  quality. 
The  election  of  Franklin  D.  Roosevelt  in  November 
12  came  as  a  sharp  blow  to  A.  Atwater  Kent.  A 
unch  Republican,  Kent  viewed  Roosevelt's  New  Deal 
itics  with  considerable  disdain.  He  had  built  his  em- 
e  single-handedly,  and  he  resented  efforts  to  lessen  his 
Urol  of  it.  In  1933,  labor  unions  attempted  to  organ- 
the  Wissahickon  Avenue  plant.  The  dispute  was  set- 
i  with  a  10  percent  pay  increase,  and  the  organizers 
re  told  sternly  by  Mr.  Kent  to  leave  and  not  come 
:k.  Legend  has  it  he  threatened  that  any  further  at- 
ipt  to  unionize  his  company  would  cause  him  to  close 
wn  the  plant  for  good.  The  unions  returned  in  June 
56  and,  true  to  his  word,  Arthur  Atwater  Kent  ceased 
)duction  of  radio  receivers. 


<  oosite  page,  top  to  bottom:  The  gold-plated  full-rigged  sailing  ship 
I  Diem  on  a  Model  35  Atwater  Kent  receiver;  Model  30  (1927)  with 

'  del  L  horn  loudspeaker;  Model  36  receiver  (also  from  1927)  shown 
I  t  the  Type  Y  power  supply;  the  Model  40,  from  1928,  with  Type  E-3 
Hspeaker. 

s  page,  left:  Model  44  (1928)  with  Type  E  speaker. 
i  ht,  top  to  bottom:  Interior  view  of  the  Model  44;  1929's  Model  49 
n  E-3  loudspeaker;  Model  55  (1929)  with  the  Type  F-4  electro- 

<  iamic  loudspeaker;  interior  view  of  the  Model  55. 


*&*&+:* 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  23 


Left:  1931  Model  84.  Right:  1932  Model  812. 

The  Atwater  Kent  closing  sent  a  shock  wave  through 
the  industry.  Speculation  ran  rampart  as  to  the  reason 
for  the  closing.  There  may  have  been  other  reasons 
besides  Kent's  dissatisfaction  with  the  New  Deal  that 
caused  the  shutdown.  At  the  time  of  the  plant's  closing 
there  were  only  800  employees,  many  on  call  when  jobs 
were  available.  A  contemporary  article  in  Radio  Weekly 
indicated  that  "Mr.  Kent  is  known  to  view  the  possibil- 
ity of  profitable  operation  in  radio  very  dubiously." 
Shortly  after  Mr.  Kent's  announcement,  twenty  of  his 
managers  pleaded  with  him  to  sell  them  the  company. 
He  steadfastly  refused,  however,  and  the  Wissahickon 
Avenue  plant  remained  vacant  until  the  Bendix  Corpora- 
tion occupied  half  the  facility  in  1939.  No  doubt  Kent's 
large  personal  fortune  was  also  a  major  factor  in  his 
trading  of  the  active  business  for  a  life  of  leisure — what 
he  once  called  "the  simple  life  on  a  grand  scale." 


this  highly  acclaimed  operatic  program.  His  philanthn 
pic  interests  continued.  He  donated  countless  radio  re- 
ceivers to  various  institutions,  including  several  to  WP 
for  use  in  Sanford  Riley  Hall.  Large  contributions  wei 
made  to  the  Perkins  School  for  the  Blind.  He  donated 
$220,000  to  Philadelphia's  Franklin  Museum  for  the 
construction  of  a  graphic  arts  museum.  In  1937  he 
donated  the  Atwater  Kent  Museum  to  the  city  of  Philc 
delphia.  Rather  than  containing  electrical  equipment,  i 
one  would  expect,  the  museum  housed  Kent's  personal 
collection  of  Philadelphia  artifacts.  Kent  even  paid  for 
the  restoration  of  the  Betsy  Ross  House.  His  generous 
contributions  to  WPI  established  a  scholarship  for 
promising  students  from  Philadelphia.  He  received  one 
of  WPI's  first  six  honorary  doctorates  on  June  18,  192; 
and  served  on  the  WPI  Board  of  Directors  from  1926  i 
1931. 

After  quitting  the  radio  industry  in  1936,  Kent  estab- 
lished a  real-estate  business  in  Florida,  and  then  movec 
to  Bel  Air,  California,  where  he  constructed  a  palatial 
32-room  Italian  style  mansion,  Cappo  di  Monti.  As  its 
name  suggests,  Cappo  di  Monti  was  built  on  top  of  the 
highest  hill  in  Los  Angeles.  Here  he  became  known  as 
"Mr.  Host"  and  was  famous  for  his  extravagant  partie 
and  general  hospitality.  His  home  was  open  to  nearly 
everyone,  and  his  regular  guest  list  numbered  over  800! 
His  parties  became  such  a  social  event  by  1946  that  Lift 
magazine  ran  a  well-illustrated  article  on  them.  Mr.  Kei 
would  invite  scores  of  Hollywood  luminaries,  and  he 
would  frequently  dress  as  the  Mad  Hatter  (from  Alice  i 
Wonderland)  while  he  fed  them  choice  foods  and  wine. 
He  would  mingle  with  his  guests  for  a  few  hours  and 
then  go  up  to  bed  while  the  party  continued.  Kent  nevei 
dined  with  his  guests  since  he  was  a  vegetarian. 


During  the  years  of  the  rise  and  decline  of 
his  business,  the  affable  Kent  did  not  neglect  his 
personal  life.  In  1906  he  married  Mabel  Lucas,  a  Phila- 
delphia socialite.  Four  children  kept  his  home  life  busy, 
as  did  his  summer  mansion  in  Bar  Harbor,  Maine,  and 
his  winter  retreat  in  Palm  Beach,  Florida.  His  $4  million 
estate  in  Ardmore,  Pennsylvania,  was  a  local  showplace, 
with  garages  large  enough  to  hold  a  dozen  cars.  At  one 
time  he  owned  twenty-five  automobiles  and  could 
frequently  be  found  tinkering  with  them  (the  mark  of  a 
true  Techie!).  His  explanation  for  this  extravagance  was 
that  he  didn't  like  to  drive  the  same  car  two  days  in  a 
row! 

In  addition  to  the  automobiles,  he  owned  a  fleet  of 
motorboats,  and  he  was  once  fired  upon  by  a  revenue 
cutter  whose  crew  mistook  him  for  a  rum-runner. 

Mr.  Kent's  parties  were  famous  in  the  circles  of  Phila- 
delphia society.  Most  memorable  was  the  debut  of  his 
two  daughters.  Kent  gave  not  one  but  two  parties:  one 
on  shore,  the  other  on  his  personal  yacht,  with  the 
guests  shuffled  back  and  forth  on  flowered  launches. 

By  the  mid- 1920s,  Kent  began  to  devote  more  of  his 
time  to  personal  interests.  He  amassed  a  large  collection 
ol  antique  automobiles  and  grandfather  clocks.  In  1925 
he  established  the  Atwater  Kent  Hour,  later  aired  on  the 
Mi(    Red  and  the  CBS  networks.  By  1927  it  was  esti- 
mated that  Kent  was  paying  $10,000  per  week  to  support 


By  late  1948,  however,  Atwater  Kent  began  to 
slow  down  his  active  live.  Shortly  thereafter  he 
fell  ill.  On  March  4,  1949,  he  died  in  his  home  from 
"complications  of  a  malignant  condition." 

His  estate  totaled  $8.5  million  and  his  will  remem- 
bered WPI  very  generously.  On  June  10,  1949,  the  deci- 
sion was  made  to  name  WPI's  electrical  engineering 
building  "The  Atwater  Kent  Laboratories."  Although 
the  EE  building  was  completed  in  1907  and  holds  the 
distinction  of  being  the  first  college  building  in  the 
United  States  constructed  specifically  as  an  electrical  en- 
gineering laboratory,  it  had  not,  as  of  1949,  ever  re- 
ceived an  official  name.  (How  many  readers  know  that 
the  plan  view  of  this  building  traces  out  the  letter  E?) 
How  appropriate  that  such  a  building  should  be  named 
after  Arthur  Atwater  Kent. 

Although  the  name  Atwater  Kent  is  no  longer  a  house 
hold  word,  this  obscurity  is  fading  quickly.  Every  day 
Atwater  Kent  radios  are  being  "discovered"  in  attics  ant 
basements  by  a  new  generation  of  radio  collectors.  More 
often  than  not,  even  after  40  years  of  storage,  an  At- 
water Kent  will  operate  perfectly  at  the  first  click  of  the 
switch.  Once  again  the  Atwater  Kent  is  becoming  the 
focal  point  of  some  living  rooms  across  the  United 
States,  and  the  AK  reputation  for  quality  is  being  recog- 
nized anew.  It  would  have  made  Arthur  Atwater  Kent 
proud. 


24  WPI  Journal 


'■"t-~ 


Athoter  Kemt 

asuiotmceS  /p35 '  tt/oi/d-iocwc 

RADIO 


**'**•  >Yyi 


■ 


SHORT  WAVE  broadcasting  in 
foreign  countries  adds  a  thrill 
to  radio  that  you  don't  want  to 
iniss.  But  you  want  more  than 
that  thrill  when  you  buy  your  new 
radio.  You  want  a  radio  that  lets 
you  enjoy  foreign  programs.  You 
want  an  Atwater  Kent  Radio. 

In  the  27  new  sets  for  1935— 
four  of  which  are  shown  on  this 
page — Atwater  Kent  gives  you 
every  proved  improvement  that 
is  known  to  radio  science — at  prices  that  make  each  set  an  out- 
standing value.  Your  dealer  will  show  you  others:  DC  models, 
sets  for  battery  or  32-volt  power,  AC-DC  radio,  Motor-car  radio, 
and  the  marvelous  new  invention,  Atwater  Kent  Tune-O-M atic 
Radio— prices  range  from  $22.50  to  $190.00  (subject  to 
change  without  notice). 

FOR  SHORT-WAVE  RECEPTION,  THE  NEW  ATWATER  KENT 
DOUBLET  ANTENNA  GREATLY  REDUCES  BACKGROUND 
NOISE  AND  INCREASES  VOLUME  ON  DISTANT  STATIONS. 


IT   IS   ONE   THING 

tO  ^...FOREIGN 
STATIONS...  AND 
ANOTHER  TO  Cnjoy 
THEIR  PROGRAMS 


ALL-WAVE— Model  112S  (directly  above)— by 
scientific  tests  for  fidelity  throughout  entire  range 
of  musical  sound,  this  12 -tube  superheterodyne 
is  the  finest  radio  Atwater  Kent  ever  built.  And 
we  know  of  no  other  radio  that  is  its  equal  at 
ANY  price.  $]  80.00  f.o.b.  factory 

ALL-WAVE— Model  S59N  (at  left  above)— A 
revelation  to  even  the  most  technically-minded 
buyer,  this  radio  offers  complete  world-wide, 
all-wave  reception  through  4  tuning  bands,  540 
kilocycles  to  18  megacycles,  9  tubes,  2-speed  tun- 
ing, visual  shadow  tuning,  6-gang  condenser, 
11-inch  speaker.  $119.50  f.o.b.  factory 

FOREIGN  SHORT-WAVE  and  BROAD- 
CAST—Model  206  (in  front  at  left)—  6-tube 
superheterodyne,  hears  foreign  stations,  police, 
amateur,  airplane,  and  all  American  broadcast- 
ing. Remarkably  free  from  background  noises. 
$49.90  f.o.b.  factory 

STANDARD  BROADCAST— Model  944  (in 

front  at  right) — 4-tube  superheterodyne  receives 
all  regular  broadcasting  and  police  band.  8-inch 
electro-dynamic  speaker  and  precision  construc- 
tion give  it  excellent  tone  quality. 

$22.50  f.o.b.  factory 


ATWATER    KENT    MANUFACTURING    COMPANY 


A.  Atwater  Kent,  Prwldsnt 


PHILADELPHIA,      PA. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  1 25 


1928 


1902 


Dr.  Winthrop  G.  Hall  was  honored  at  a 
celebration  marking  his  25th  anniversary  as 
an  ordained  minister  of  Christ  last  spring  at 
Pakachoag  Community  Church  in  Auburn, 
Mass.  Dr.  Hall,  the  church's  Pastor  Emeritus, 
never  attended  a  seminary,  but  was  a  lay 
leader  until  his  ordination  in  1951.  He  retired 
as  minister  of  the  church  in  1956.  He  is  still 
active  in  church  affairs,  however,  and  is  also 
associated  with  Homestead  Hall  and  Goddard 
House  in  Worcester. 


1922 


Larry  Larson  is  justly  proud  of  his  two 
grandsons,  both  students  at  the  University  of 
Vermont.  Tom,  a  6'2"  freshman,  made  the 
varsity  basketball  team  which  had  a  good 
season,  including  a  victory  over  Dartmouth. 
Chris,  a  sophomore,  will  be  taking  his  junior 
year  abroad  at  the  University  of  Edinburgh. 


1926 


In  April,  Rudy  Danstedt,  assistant  to  the 
president  of  the  National  Council  of  Senior 
Citizens,  Washington,  D.C.,  participated  in 
Project:  Knowledge  2000,  a  bicentennial 
program  exploring  the  country's  knowledge 
needs  for  the  next  25  years.  He  attended  the 
forum  held  at  the  Xerox  International  Center 
for  Training  and  Management  Development 
in  Leesburg,  Va.  Some  350  leaders  in  various 
fields  in  the  U.S.  and  other  countries  took 
part  in  the  project,  which  was  sponsored 
by  the  NSF,  the  American  Revolution 
Bicentennial  Administration,  and  Xerox 
Corporation. 


Currently  Francis  H.  King  holds  the  post  of 
president  of  the  Massachusetts  Municipal 
Wholesale  Electric  Co.,  a  public  power 
corporation  set  up  by  the  state  legislature, 
which  is  making  plans  to  build  400  MW  of 
generating  capacity  at  Westover  Field.  King 
also  continues  as  general  manager  of 
Holyoke  Gas  and  Electric  Department, 
chairman  of  the  Defense  Electric  Power 
Industry  Advisory  Committee  of  the  U.S. 
Dept.  of  Interior,  and  as  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts, 
Connecticut,  and  Vermont.  He  is  brigadier 
general  of  the  Massachusetts  Air  National 
Guard  and  member  of  the  Ancient  £r 
Honorable  Artillery  Company  of 
Massachusetts.  Last  May  he  served  as  the 
Memorial  Day  program  speaker  in  Holyoke. 


1929 


Laurence  F.  Cleveland,  a  retired 
Northeastern  University  professor  of  electrical 
engineering,  recently  received  the  first 
Laurence  F.  Cleveland  Award  from  the 
Boston  Chapter  of  the  Power  Engineering 
Society.  Prof.  Cleveland,  who  retired  from 
Northeastern  in  1973  after  44  years  of  service, 
was  chosen  as  the  award's  first  recipient 
because  of  his  dedication  and  contribution  to 
the  electrical  engineering  profession.  For 
many  years  he  directed  the  Electrical  Power 
Program  at  Northeastern  and  was  responsible 
for  its  growth.  In  honor  of  his 
accomplishments  at  the  university,  students 
of  Aeta  Kappa  Nu  dedicated  the  Cleveland 
Laboratory  for  Power  Engineering  in  Hayden 
Hall. 


1931 


Trescott  B.  Larchar  has  retired.  He  was 
formerly  a  senior  research  chemist  at  Olin 
Corp.,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Charles  E. 
Woodward  is  also  retired.  He  had  served  as 
assistant  project  chemist  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
in  East  Hartford,  Conn. 


1932 


Dr.  Fred  A.  Bickford,  a  consultant  for 
Corning  (NY)  Glass  Works,  received  national 
recognition  in  the  ceramic  field  when  he  was 
made  a  Fellow  of  the  American  Ceramic 
Society  in  a  ceremony  at  the  Society's  78th 
annual  meeting  held  in  Cincinnati,  Ohio  last 
May.  After  receiving  his  MS  and  PhD  from 
MIT,  he  started  at  Corning  as  a  research 
chemist  in  1936.  He  was  named  manager  of 
refractory  materials  research  in  1972  and 
ceramics  consultant  in  1974.  His  work  on  tin 
oxide,  cordierite,  and  alumina  has  resulted  in 
the  perfection  of  numerous  products.  Dr. 
Bickford  holds  four  U.S.  patents  and  is  a 
member  of  the  American  Ceramic  Society's 
Glass  Division.  .  .  .  William  F.  Reardon  has 
been  elected  a  senior  Elfun  representative, 
Oneida  Chapter.  He  joined  General  Electric  in 
1948  after  service  with  A.J.  Daniels 


Construction,  TVA,  and  the  U.S.  Navy,  s 
last  GE  position  before  his  retirement  in  )1 
was  as  manager  of  advanced  facilities  | 
planning  in  the  real  estate  and  construct 
operation.  Currently  he  is  a  member  of  Is 
Hospital  Board  of  Managers.  .  .  .  Leon  B 
Skuropat,  who  had  been  with  GE  in  BrJJ 
from  1935  until  his  recent  retirement,  is  :■ 
located  in  Sao  Paulo. 


1933 


On  the  retired  list  is  Harvey  F.  Lorenzei  - 
had  been  with  Cragin,  Lang,  Free  Er  Sm^fc 
in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 


1935 


C.  Marshall  Dann,  U.S.  Commissioner  c 
Patents  and  Trademarks,  received  the 
Jefferson  Medal  from  the  New  Jersey  Pa^ 
Law  Association  in  June.  The  award  is 
considered  to  be  the  most  prestigious  in  \\ 
patent  field.  Dann  was  honored  for  his 
outstanding  contributions  to  the  patent 
system  and  effective  and  progressive 
administration  of  the  Patent  and  Trademai 
Office. 


1936 


When  Allen  Chase's  company,  Chase 
Precast  Corp.,  was  founded  in  1958,  it  tun 
out  burial  vaults  exclusively.  Today  the  No 
Brookfield  (Mass.)  firm  also  makes  a  big  lii 
of  building  products,  including  non-slip  pa1 
blocks,  septic  tanks,  and  bulkhead  units. 
Specialty  products,  such  as  six-ton  mediar 
barriers,  manhole  units,  and  light  pole  bast 
for  use  along  interstate  highways  are  now 
being  built,  too. 

"Currently  we  have  contracts  for  about 
nine  miles  of  median  barriers  for  the  new 
Route  1-190  and  for  the  upgrading  of  Rout 
495,"  Chase  reports. 

Always  seeking  a  broader  market,  the 
company  is  developing  for  farmers  a  new 
precast  concrete  trench  silo,  a  type  of 
horizontal  bin  for  the  storage  of  silage. 


1937 


Morton  S.  Fine,  who  was  awarded  a 
distinguished  service  certificate  by  the 
National  Council  of  Engineering  Examiners 
(NCEE)  last  year,  has  been  appointed 
executive  director  of  the  council  at  its 
headquarters  in  Seneca,  South  Carolina.  A 
professional  engineer,  land  surveyor, 
landscape  architect  and  planner,  he 
previously  owned  and  operated  Morton  S. 
Fine  &  Associates,  Inc.,  in  Bloomfield,  Con 
He  is  class  gift  chairman  for  the  WPI  Class 
1937. 


26  WPI  Journal 


938 


1942 


ioted  expert  on  Morgan  and  Peace  dollar 
eties,  A.  George  Mallis,  was  a  recent 
aker  for  the  Adelphi  University  course, 
ie  Investment  Potential  in  Numismatics." 
His  is  the  author  of  "List  of  Die  Varieties 
Morgan  Dollars"  and  a  coauthor  of  a  new 
ik,  A  Comprehensive  Catalogue  and 
yclopedia  of  United  States  Silver  Morgan 
'  Peace  Dollars,  which  will  be  published 
summer.  In  1962  he  was  appointed  by 
sident  Kennedy  to  the  U.S.  Assay 
nmission.  .  .  .  Earle  R.  Vickery,  Jr.  has 
ed  after  serving  25  years  as  town 
jerator  in  Princeton,  Mass.  He  received  a 
el  and  standing  ovation  at  the  last 
sting  at  which  he  presided  in  May. 


939 


ason  W.  Jewett  is  a  flight  instructor  in 
i  wing  learning  to  fly  helicopters  for 
neering  tests  at  Brantly-Hynes  Helicopter, 
Frederick,  Oklahoma. 


941 


Presently  Robert  E.  Allen  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  engineered  pump  operations  at 
Cameron  Pump,  a  division  of  Ingersoll-Rand 
Co.  in  Phillipsburg,  N.J. 

Wilbur  Day  writes  that  he  recently 
returned  home  after  a  ten-month  assignment 
with  Singer  in  Sussex,  England.  He  helped 
develop  a  sophisticated  flight  simulator  which 
was  delivered  to  British  Aircraft  Corp.  (BAC) 
for  the  Concorde  supersonic  transport.  The 
simulator,  which  faithfully  reproduces  all 
flight,  engine,  and  systems  training  cues,  is 
being  used  as  a  training  device  by  BAC  to 
help  senior  flight  crews  make  the  transition 
from  conventional  aircrafts. 

During  the  course  of  the  development  of 
the  simulator,  Day  went  on  a  training  flight  in 
the  Concorde  which  covered  the  complete 
flight  profile.  For  54  minutes  of  the  two-hour 
flight,  the  aircraft  was  supersonic,  being 
above  Mach  2  for  34  minutes.  To  Day,  the 
most  significant  aspect  of  the  flight  was  the 
supersonic  climb  acceleration  from  Mach  .93 
at  25,000  feet  to  Mach  2.0  at  51,000  feet 
during  which  "we  averaged  better  than 
12,000  feet  per  minute,  and  the  turnaround  at 
Mach  2.0  with  a  turning  radius  of  more  than 
200  miles— just  fantastic!"  He  also  says  the 
flight  was  glassy  smooth,  surprisingly  quiet, 
and  that  the  aircraft  was  a  technical  marvel. 


ert  B.  Brautigam  serves  as  production 
ager  at  Hooker  Plastics  &  Resins 
iion,  Canadian  Occidental  Petroleum, 

in  Fort  Erie,  Ontario.  .  .  .  James  H. 
nan  spoke  about  the  operations  at  the 

Bedford  Division  of  Revere  Copper  and 
s,  Inc.,  before  the  Rhode  Island  chapter 
e  American  Society  of  Metals  in  May. 
i  assistant  manager  for  research  and 
lopment  at  Revere  and  gave  his 
ductory  talk  prior  to  a  tour  of  the  plant 
ie  ASM  group.  .  .  .  Hilliard  W.  Paige  is 
<ntly  with  International  Energy 

ciates,  Ltd.,  in  Washington,  D.C. 


1943 


William  W.  Tunnicliffe  has  been  appointed 
as  a  program  director  for  the  Graphic 
Communications  Computer  Association, 
Printing  Industry  of  America.  He  has  had 
extensive  experience  in  the  application  of 
information  handling  and  computerized 
typesetting  systems.  In  his  new  position  he 
will  be  responsible  for  all  GCCA  research  and 
seminar  activity  in  text  processing, 
composition,  facimile  transmission  and 


ational  recognition  for  two  '37 

assmates 


Chapin  Cutler  and  Ray  K.  Lins- 

,  both  members  of  the  Class  of 
7,  have  recently  been  recognized 
ionally  for  their  professional 
ievements. 

Sutler,  director  of  the  Bell  Elec- 
nic  and  Computer  Systems  Re- 
rch  Laboratory  in  Holmdel, 
1.,  has  been  elected  a  member  of 
National  Academy  of  Sciences 
recognition  of  his  distinguished 
1  continuing  achievements  in 
?inal  research."  The  Academy 
?  as  an  official  adviser  to  the  fed- 
I  government,  upon  request,  on 
tiers  of  science  and  technology. 
:ler  joined  Bell  in  1937.  Presently 
is  responsible  for  research  work 


on  picture  processing  for  communi- 
cations, digital  signal  processing, 
computer  applications,  and  switch- 
ing systems.  He  holds  over  70 
patents  and  was  awarded  an  honor- 
ary doctor  of  engineering  degree 
from  WPI  in  1975. 

Prof.  Ray  K.  Linsley  has  been 
elected  to  the  National  Academy  of 
Engineering.  He  was  chosen  as  a 
member  because  of  his  leadership  in 
hydrology  and  water  resource 
planning  through  teaching,  research, 
and  practice.  The  retired  executive 
head  of  civil  engineering  department 
at  Stanford  University,  he  is  cur- 
rently associated  with  Hydrocomp, 
Inc.,  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 


related  fields  of  application.  Previously  he 
served  as  president  of  Tunnicliffe  Associates, 
Inc.,  president  of  Graphic  Services,  and  vice 
president  of  the  Courier  Citizen  Co.,  Lowell, 
Mass. 


1944 


Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.,  retired  July  1 
as  chairman  of  the  finance  committee  in 
Shrewsbury,  Mass.  He  had  served  nine  years 
on  the  finance  committee.  His  retirement 
followed  24  years  of  service  to  the  town.  For 
15  years  he  was  a  selectman,  13  of  those 
years  holding  the  post  of  chairman.  He  is 
president  and  owner  of  Donahue  Industries, 
Inc.,  Shrewsbury,  and  a  WPI  trustee. 


1945 


Married:  Robert  M.  Edgerly  and  Mrs. 
Gertrud  L.  Walsh  on  April  17,  1976  in 
Plainview,  New  York. 

William  P.  Densmore,  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  Grinding  Wheel 
Division  of  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  has  been 
named  the  recipient  of  WPI's  Albert  J. 
Schweiger  Award  for  Outstanding 
Achievement.  The  presentation  was  made  at 
the  27th  annual  School  of  Industrial 
Management  banquet  held  in  February. 
Densmore  received  the  award  in  recognition 
of  his  educational  achievements.  He  is  a 
director  of  Friends  of  Worcester  Public 
Schools,  a  trustee  of  Dynamy,  Inc.,  a 
member  of  the  state  Board  of  Education  and 
founder  of  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Citizens  Involved  in  Education. 


1946 


Married:  Harrison  W.  Fuller  to  Mrs.  Carroll 
S.  Bottino  in  Lexington,  Massachusetts 
recently.  Mrs.  Fuller  graduated  from  Boston 
University  College  of  Fine  Arts  and  is  an 
educational  consultant  in  private  practice.  Dr. 
Fuller  is  employed  at  Sanders  Associates, 
Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H. 

Robert  L.  Ballard  serves  as  president  of 
his  own  business,  Design  Associates,  in  Belle 
Mead,  N.J.  The  engineering  and 
management  consulting  firm  concentrates  in 
the  areas  of  automation  design, 
manufacturing  management  and  systems, 
and  industrial  robot  applications.  .  .  .  Bernard 
L  Beisecker  holds  the  post  of  vice  president 
and  general  manager  at  Central  Screw  in 
Frankfort,  Ky.  .  .  .  Regis  E.  Breault  is  plant 
superintendent  at  Boston  Insulated  Wire  & 
Cable  Co.  in  North  Dighton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
William  R.  Grogan,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  at  WPI,  was  a  panel  member  on  a 
parochial  school  reorganization  program  aired 
on  Worcester's  channel  27  in  March.  .  .  . 
Orville  T.  Ranger  is  an  attorney  with 
Ranger,  McTeague  &  Higbee  in  Brunswick, 
Me. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  27 


1948 


1951 


1954 


Dr.  Donald  C.  Eteson  has  been  promoted  to 
professor  of  electrical  engineering  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
Irwin  T.  Vanderhoof  presently  serves  as  a 
vice  president  of  the  Equitable  Life  Assurance 
Society  of  the  United  States  in  New  York 
City.  He  recently  had  two  papers  published  in 
Transactions,  a  publication  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries.  He  is  planning  to  present  a  paper 
on  "Inflation,  Interest  Rates,  Benefits,  and 
Expenses"  at  the  International  Congress  of 
Actuaries  in  Tokyo  this  fall.  He  has  written 
chapters  on  life  insurance  investment  and 
accounting  in  two  books  which  will  be 
published  later  this  year.  He  is  also  an 
adjunct  associate  professor  at  the  Graduate 
School  of  the  College  of  Insurance  in  New 
York  City. 


1949 


John  H.  Beckwith,  division  manager  for 
Exxon  Research  &  Engineering,  is  temporarily 
assigned  to  Esso  Europe  for  a  couple  of  years 
on  a  North  Sea  project.  He  is  residing  in 
London.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Rowse,  vice 
president  for  operations  and  research  for  the 
Abrasive  Materials  Division  of  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  was  recently  awarded  the 
Abrasive  Engineering  Society's  (AES)  annual 
award.  A  special  plaque  recognizing  Rowse 
as  the  industry  "Man  of  the  Year"  was 
presented  to  him  at  the  1976  Technical 
Conference  of  the  AES  in  Grand  Rapids, 
Mich.  His  1975  patent  of  zirconia  alumina 
abrasive  grain  and  grinding  tools  is  viewed  by 
the  industry  as  one  of  the  most  significant 
advances  in  abrasives  in  decades.  Employed 
by  Norton  Co.  since  1949,  he  also  has 
developed  six  other  patents  on  abrasives.  He 
graduated  from  the  School  of  Industrial 
Management  at  WPI  and  took  the  Advanced 
Management  Program  at  Harvard.  He  is 
director  of  the  Abrasive  Grain  Association 
and  a  member  of  ACS. 


1950 


George  Barna  serves  as  a  manager  for  the 
Spacecraft  Group  at  RCA  in  Princeton, 
N.J.  .  .  .  Everett  S.  Child,  Jr.,  is  executive 
vice  president  for  the  N.H.  Association  of 
Realtors  in  Concord,  N.H.  .  .  .  Col.  Frank  W. 
Harding  III  is  a  member  of  the  B-1  System 
Program  Office  which  has  earned  the  Air 
Force  Organizational  Excellence  Award. 
Honored  for  exceptionally  meritorious  service, 
the  group  is  credited  with  helping  make 
possible  the  successful  development  and 
flight  tests  of  the  new  B-1  strategic  bomber. 
Col.  Harding  is  chief  of  procurement  at 
Wright  Patterson  AFB,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Philip  J. 
Nyquist  serves  as  an  expert  in  work 
simplification  for  the  United  Nations  in 
Bandung,  Indonesia.  .  .  .  Currently  Paul  MA. 
Schonning  is  a  project  engineer  at  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester. 


John  A.  Dillon  holds  the  post  of  director  of 
material  management  at  Purex  Corp.,  Ltd.,  in 
Carson,  Calif.  .  .  .  Harvey  L.  Howell  serves 
as  president  of  Manchaug  Corp.  in 
Manchaug,  Mass.  .  .  .  Roy  H.  Olson  writes 
that  he  has  just  passed  his  tenth  anniversary 
at  the  Torrington  (Conn.)  Company.  Both  of 
his  sons  are  now  through  college,  the 
younger,  Paul,  having  graduated  June  5th. 
David  has  a  degree  in  police  administration 
and  is  currently  working  in  that  field.  .  .  . 
Ramsey  U.  Sheikh  is  vice  president  at  B.C. 
Wagner,  Inc.  in  Reading,  Pa. 


1952 


Donald  H.  Adams  has  been  elected  group 
vice  president  of  regional  operations  by 
Allendale  Insurance,  the  world's  largest 
insurer  of  industrial  property.  Prior  to  his 
promotion,  he  was  vice  president  and  field 
manager  of  the  firm's  Canadian  operations.  In 
his  new  post,  he  assumes  responsibility  for 
the  company's  southern  and  midwest 
regions,  the  international  and  northeast 
region,  as  well  as  the  Canadian  operations. 
Adams,  who  joined  Allendale  in  1954,  is  now 
with  company  headquarters  in  Johnston, 
Rhode  Island.  ...  Dr.  Robert  E.  Baker,  an 
avid  skier  still  racing  on  the  Veteran's  Circuit 
and  a  race  official,  is  proud  of  his  17-year-old 
daughter,  Laurie,  who  is  seriously  pursuing 
skiing  at  Burke  Mountain  Academy  in  East 
Burke,  Vermont.  The  academy  stresses  skiing 
and  offers  both  a  high  school  and  college 
level  program.  Laurie,  a  high  school  senior, 
won  the  giant  slalom  and  the  slalom  at  the 
Junior  Easterns  last  winter.  .  .  .  Richard  G. 
Bennett  serves  as  an  account  executive  at 
Reynolds  Securities,  Inc.  in  Boca  Raton,  Fla. 
. .  .  Robert  L.  Favreau  was  recently  elected 
second  vice  president  of  the  Greater 
Pottsville  (Pa.)  Area  Chamber  of  Commerce. 
He  is  manager  of  the  Exxon  plant  in 
Minersville.  For  five  years  he  served  as 
director  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  is 
a  past  president  of  the  Manufacturers 
Association  of  Schuylkill  County. 


1953 


Vyto  L.  Andreliunas  recently  received  a 
commendation  for  outstanding  performance 
from  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  New 
England  Division.  This  was  the  sixth  award 
for  Andreliunas,  who  as  chief  of  operations 
for  the  division,  is  responsible  for  the 
maintenance  and  operation  of  36  federal 
flood  storage  reservoirs  and  the  Cape  Cod 
Canal.  He  is  chairman  of  the  Westford 
(Mass.)  Planning  Board  and  served  eight 
years  on  the  Development  and  Industrial 
Commission.  ...  J.  Donald  Frey  is  now  with 
Bausch  &  Lomb  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Walter  E.  Levine  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  product  planning  at  Improvecon  in  Port 
Huron,  Mich. 


Joachim  Herz  is  with  Siemens 
Semiconductors  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  . .  J 
Milton  Meckler  has  been  named  presidi  t 
of  the  Energy  Group,  a  subsidia'y  of  Weln 
Becket  Associates,  in  Los  Angeles,  Calif,  ihi 
group  will  emphasize  the  design  of  buildi(' 
automation  and  utility  systems  and  energi 
management  programs  for  new  and  existg 
building  projects  and  engineered  facilities* 
registered  professional  engineer,  Meckler  il 
also  teach  a  course  on  "Guidelines  for  Errg 
Conservation  in  Industrial  Processes"  at   \ 
UCLA.  Last  winter  his  article,  "Heat 
Reclamation  Techniques  for  On-Site  Ener/ 
Systems,"  appeared  in  the  publication. 
Western  Bui/ding  Design.  .  .  .  Wilfred  F. 
Taylor,  former  town  engineer  in  Barnstarji, 
Mass.,  has  joined  the  staff  of  Dale  E. 
Caruthers  Co.,  consulting  engineers,  in 
Gorham,  Me.  He  has  a  20-year  backgrourlii 
public  works  and  engineering.  From  1966) 
1975  he  also  owned  and  operated  Crowel 
and  Taylor  Corp.,  a  civil  engineering 
consulting  and  surveying  firm  in  the  Capei 
Cod  area.  Among  his  projects  were  desigl. 
work  and  field  engineering  for  New  Bedfcf 
Industrial  Park  and  layout  engineering  at  us 
Air  Force  Base  for  Page  Electronics  Co.  hi 
a  registered  professional  engineer  and  Ian 
surveyor  in  Massachusetts  and  a  memberf 
ASCE. 


1955 


Peter  H.  Horstmann,  vice  president  of 
engineering  at  Coppus  Engineering  Corp., 
Worcester,  was  voted  "Boss  of  the  Year" 
the  American  Business  Women's  Associalji 
Boss  Night  banquet  held  in  Worcester  lasli 
June.  .  .  .  Frederick  J.  Ogozalek  is  stud\g 
at  Springfield  (Mass.)  Technical  Communi|i 
College. 


1956 


After  leaving  World-Wide  Construction 
Services,  Inc.,  in  March,  Robert  S.  Allen 
formed  Allen  Associates,  a  chemical 
engineering-consulting  firm  located  in 
Wichita,  Kansas.  Presently  he  is  designing 
and  building  a  PVC  plant  in  Haifa,  Israel  fc, 
Electrochemical  Industries  (Frutarom)  Ltd.  [1 
.  .  .  Richard  V.  Basil,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  senjl 
scientist  at  Hughes  Aircraft  in  Los  Angelet 
Calif. .  .  .  Albert  D.  Blakeslee  is  with  Maui,  t 
Surf  Hotel  at  Kaanapali,  Maui,  Hawaii.  •  •  ■    i] 
Bernard  R.  Danti  serves  as  vice  president! 
Millipore  Corp.  in  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Lawrence  B.  Horrigan,  Jr.  is  construction 
superintendent  at  EBASCO  Services,  Inc.,  I 
Jensen  Beach,  Fla. 

William  A.  Johnson  works  as  senior  st' 
consultant  at  Sobotka  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Stamfo 
Conn.  .  .  .  Edwin  J.  Leonard  is  the  owner 
and  president  of  Monarch  Marketing  Systes 
in  Sao  Paulo,  Brazil.  .  .  .  John  H.  Rogers 
the  author  of  "Tedlar  PVF  Film  .  .  .  New 
Applications  for  a  Mature  Product,"  which 
appeared  in  a  recent  issue  of  Du  Pont's 
College  Supplement.  He  is  special 
representative  in  the  Plastic  Products  and 


28  WPI  Journal 


ns  Department  at  Du  Pont  in 
nington,  Delaware.  .  .  .  Anthony  V. 
ncella  holds  the  position  of  assistant 
t  manager  at  Du  Pont's  F&F  plant  in 
n,  N.J.  .  .  .  Harold  F.  Smith  is  now 
;tor  of  international  sales  operations  at 
>o  Power  and  Marine  Systems,  a 
;idiary  of  United  Technologies  Corp.  .  .  . 
F.  Stone  was  recently  elected  to  a 
3-year  term  on  the  school  committee  in 
urn,  Mass.  As  treasurer  of  Auburn 
ens  for  Education,  he  has  worked  to 
ove  bidding  procedures  of  the  school 
mittee.  Stone  is  vice  president  and 
;urer  of  Colonial  Data  Systems,  Inc., 
t  Boylston,  Mass.  His  wife  was  elected  to 
"harter  Revision  Commission. 


1959 


157 


;by  L.  Adams  holds  the  post  of  project 
tor  at  Wilbur  Smith  &  Associates  in 
oik,  Va.  .  .  .  Robert  L.  Brass  has  been 
;d  director  of  market  planning  and 
irch  for  Xerox  Corporation  with 
quarters  in  Stamford,  Conn.  He  has 
jrate  staff  responsibility  for  market 
ling  and  research  and  market  and 
omic  forecasting.  He  joined  Xerox  in 
and  since  1973  has  served  as  manager 
oduct  planning.  .  .  .  John  D.  Daly  is 
secretary  and  general  counsel  at 
nbia  Gas  Transmission   Corp.,  one  of 
lation's  largest  gas  pipeline  companies. 
>ntly  located  in  Charleston,  W.  Va.,  he 
n  working  for  Columbia  in  1957  as  an 
leer  and  saw  service  with  the  firm  in 
le  Cliff,  Ohio  and  New  York  City.  After 
'ing  his  law  degree  in  1967,  he  switched 
3  company's  law  department.  Prior  to 
■cent  promotion  to  the  top  legal  position 
;  firm,  he  was  senior  attorney  at 
nbia  Transmission  and  secretary  of  three 
nbia  System  supply  subsidiaries.  .  .  . 
ard  J.  Ferguson  is  a  senior  systems 
eerat  IBM  Corp.  in  Lexington,  Ky. 


w 


jruary  the  WPI  trustees  approved  tenure 
'.  James  S.  Demetry,  associate 
jsor  of  electrical  engineering.  .  .  . 
im  H.  Hopf  has  joined  Walworth 
>any  (industrial  valve  manufacturer)  as 
•resident  of  engineering.  He  heads 
rate  engineering,  which  is  a  part  of 
orth's  new  Customer  Service  Center 
n  operation  at  Valley  Forge,  Pa. 
)usly  he  had  been  with  Irvington-Moore, 
sbury  Corp.,  and  General  Electric.  He 
een  active  with  the  Manufacturers' 
iardization  Society  of  the  Valve  & 
gs  Industry,  the  American  National 
lards  Institute,  and  the  American 
leum  Institute. 


Dr.  Mohammad  Amin  is  an  associate 
professor  in  Arya  Mehr  Technological 
University's  engineering  department,  Tehran, 
Iran.  ...  Dr.  Joseph  D.  Bronzino,  professor 
of  engineering  at  Trinity  College,  Hartford, 
Conn.,  was  coauthor  of  a  paper  which  won 
second  prize  in  a  national  award  program 
sponsored  by  the  Association  for  the 
Advancement  of  Medical  Instrumentation. 
Titled  "Application  of  a  Minicomputer- Based 
System  in  Measuring  Intraocular  Fluid 
Dynamics,"  the  paper  describes  work  he  and 
others  have  performed  in  measuring  capillary 
blood  flow  in  the  anterior  segment  of  the 
eye.  The  chapter,  "Experimental  Studies  of 
Sleep  in  Animals."  will  appear  in  Volume  3  of 
Methods  of  Psychology  to  be  published  this 
year  by  Academic  Press.  .  .  .  George  B. 
Constantine  is  currently  manager  of  market 
development  for  combined  cycle  sales  at 
General  Electric  International  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  Frederick  J.  Costello  serves  as 
director  of  sales  for  chemicals  and  plastics  at 
Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Moorestown,  N.J. 

Andrew  P.  Cueroni  was  recently  elected 
a  member  of  the  board  of  directors  of 
Suburban  Credit  Union  in  Framingham,  Mass. 
He  is  involved  in  the  industrial  and 
commercial  construction  business  and 
belongs  to  ASCE  and  the  American  Concrete 
Institute.  He  is  chairman  of  the  board  of 
trustees  of  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Carpenter's  Training  Fund;  the  Bricklayer's 
Pension  Fund,  and  trustee  of  the  Central 
Massachusetts  Carpenters'  Health  and 
Welfare  Fund.  .  .  .  Wilbur  S.  Ekman,  Jr.  is  a 
radical  tire  compounder  for  Armstrong 
Rubber  in  West  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Philip 
H.  Puddington  has  been  named  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  Rice's,  Inc., 
an  independent  tire  and  car  care  marketer 
serving  both  commercial  and  retail 
customers.  Headquarters  are  in  Manchester, 
N.H.,  with  a  manufacturing  facility  and 
warehouse  in  Bow  and  six  store  locations 
around  the  state.  Previously  Puddington  was 
general  manager  of  the  aerosol  division  at 
Scovill  Manufacturing  in  Manchester. 


1960 


David  R.  Geoffroy  is  project  manager  at 
Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Robert  F. 
Kelley,  MNS,  associate  professor  in  the 
Worcester  State  College  Department  of 
Natural  Science  and  Physics,  was  recently 
named  the  recipient  of  the  annual 
Outstanding  Science  Educator  Award  by  the 
New  England  Section  of  the  Association  of 
Educators  of  Teachers  of  Science,  and  the 
Massachusetts  Association  of  Science 
Supervisors.  .  .  .  Arthur  J.  LoVetere  has 
been  appointed  chief  operating  officer  at 
MacDermid,  Inc.,  Waterbury,  Conn.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  all  day-to-day  operations 
except  research.  Prior  to  his  appointment,  he 
had  had  responsibilities  as  technical  sales 
representative,  regional  sales  manager,  and 
marketing  manager  for  the  firm.  He  has  been 
with  MacDermid  since  1957  and  is  a  trustee 
of  the  Metal  Finishing  Suppliers  Association. 


.  .  .  John  T.  Manchester  is  manager  of 
systems  order  processing  services  at  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Co.  He  directs  three  departments  in 
the  Digital  Systems  Division.  .  .  .  Norton  S. 
Remmer,  a  former  plans  examiner  in  the 
Worcester  City  Office  of  Public  Buildings  and 
technical  directorfor  the  state  Building  Code 
Commission,  has  been  named  Worcester's 
first  commissioner  of  code  inspection.  He  will 
supervise  the  new  Code  Inspection 
Department. 


1961 


Lee  P.  Hackett  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  of  the  industrial  division  at  the 
American  Appraisal  Co.,  Inc.  in  Milwaukee, 
Wis.  .  .  .  Bradley  E.  Hosmer  was  recently 
named  vice  president  of  special  products  at 
Branson  Sonic  Power  Company,  Danbury, 
Conn.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all  Branson's 
non-plastics  product  lines,  including 
ultrasonic  metal  welding  and  machining.  He 
will  also  direct  the  company's  advertising, 
training,  and  marketing  research  departments. 
Prior  to  joining  Branson  in  1972,  he  had  been 
with  Marketing  Action  Group,  Inc.,  and  Booz- 
Allen  and  Hamilton  in  New  York.  .  .  .  Mel  G. 
Keegan  is  a  senior  mechanical  engineer  at 
Fluor  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.  .  .  .  Richard  O'Shea  works  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  Raytheon  Company  in  Wayland, 
Mass.  ...  Dr.  Gordon  M.  Parker  has  been 
appointed  laboratory  director  at  the  Apollo 
Chemical  Corp.  in  Whippany,  N.J.  He 
received  his  PhD  from  Polytechnic  Institute 
of  Brooklyn  and  did  postdoctoral  study  at 
Kyoto  University  in  Japan.  .  .  .  Svend  E. 
Pelch  is  director  of  long  range  planning  for 
Bristol  Myers  International,  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  Edward  A.  Sundburg  has  been 
appointed  superintendent  of  ceramic 
components  for  Norton  Company's  Industrial 
Ceramics  Division  in  Worcester.  He  began 
work  at  Norton's  in  1964  as  a  product 
engineer  for  the  division's  armor  and 
spectramic  products. 


1962 


Richard  O.  Allen  is  supervisor  of  computer 
services  at  Photographic  Science  Corp., 
Webster,  N.Y.  .  .  .  David  L.  Goodman 
continues  with  Beaudreau  Electric,  Inc., 
Waterford,  Conn.,  where  he  holds  the  post  of 
president.  .  .  .  Bryce  A.  Norwood  was 
recently  promoted  to  the  position  of  director 
of  planning  for  the  northeast  region  of 
Friendly  Ice  Cream  Corporation,  Wilbraham, 
Mass.  He  had  served  as  manager  of  planning 
and  engineering.  In  his  new  post  he  will 
supervise  the  engineering  requirements 
during  new  construction  for  the  firm.  He  will 
also  oversee  maintenance  needs  for  all  the 
shops  located  in  the  northeast.  A  noted 
authority  on  energy  conservation,  he  has 
lectured  to  numerous  groups  on  the  subject. 
.  .  .  The  Rev.  Andrew  D.  Terwilleger  now 
serves  as  associate  traffic  engineer  for  the 
Lexington  (Ky.)  Fayette  Urban  County 
Government. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  29 


Dreams  ...  of  teaching 


Dreams  may  not  always  be  an- 
swered, but  that  doesn't  necessarily 
mean  that  there  can't  be  happy 
endings.  Lots  of  youngsters  dream 
of  growing  up  to  be  firemen  or 
Supermen,  but,  instead,  make  per- 
fectly happy  pharmacists  or  insur- 
ance executives.  In  the  maturing 
process,  goals  may  change.  Besides, 
Fate  plays  out  her  hand  from  a 
hidden  deck,  and  no  one  can  be  cer- 
tain what  tomorrow  may  bring. 

John  Bayer,  '45  and  Philip  Baker, 
'65  both  dreamed  of  going  into 
teaching.  Several  members  of 
Bayer's  family  are  teachers.  His 
brother  John  is  a  professor  of  so- 
ciology at  Florida  State  University 
in  Tallahassee.  His  sister-in-law 
teaches  in  the  Dudley  (Mass.)  school 
system,  and  his  wife  Barbara  teaches 
arts  and  crafts.  Bayer  himself 
caught  the  teaching  bug  when  he  re- 
turned for  graduate  work  at  WPI 
following  World  War  II.  "I  really 
enjoyed  teaching  physics  to  under- 
classmen," he  says  "and  seriously 
considered  taking  up  teaching  as  a 
profession."  But  his  father  became 
incapacitated  and  he  had  to  reassess 
his  goals. 

Phil  Baker,  who  earned  his  BS  in 
physics  at  WPI  in  1965,  and  then 
went  on  to  Yale  for  his  master's  de- 
gree on  a  fellowship,  had  an  experi- 
ence similar  to  Bayer's.  He  taught 
an  undergraduate  course  in  astron- 
omy and  liked  it. 

"I  thought  I  might  go  into  teach- 
ing after  graduation,"  he  recalls.  In- 
stead, he  read  an  ad  in  the  New 
York  Times  which  changed  his 
plans. 

Today,  John  Bayer  sells  Cadillacs 
and  Phil  Baker  is  principal  engineer 
at  Polaroid.  Both  seem  satisfied 
with  their  respective  careers,  al- 
though they  lay  outside  of  the  teach- 
ing profession. 


Bayer's  career,  especially,  has  had 
a  number  of  unexpected  twists  and 
turns.  Why  is  the  man  who  loves 
teaching,  and  who  developed  the 
formula  for  Gleem  toothpaste,  sell- 
ing Cadillacs  in  Dudley,  Mass.?  Ask 
him  and  he  gives  a  candid  answer. 
"The  standard  of  living  that  the  car 
business  provided  when  I  was  asked 
to  help  manage  the  family  business 
in  1949,  was  hard  to  duplicate  any- 
where else,"  he  replies. 

Prior  to  helping  his  ailing  father 
with  the  business,  Bayer  had  re- 
ceived his  BSChE  from  WPI  in  1945 
and  then  gone  directly  into  the 
Navy.  He  became  associated  with 
the  Ahapostia  D.C.  Naval  Research 
Laboratory  of  the  U.S.  Navy  Office 
of  Research  &  Invention  and  was 
assigned  to  the  Manhattan  Project 
where  he  worked  on  the  isotope 
separation  of  the  uranium  which 
was  used  in  the  initial  testing  of  the 
atomic  bomb. 

Once  out  of  the  service,  he  re- 
turned to  WPI,  became  interested  in 
teaching,  and  received  his  MSChE 
in  1947.  For  a  short  time  he  was 
with  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  in  Cin- 
cinatti,  Ohio  where  he  developed  the 
formula  for  Gleem  toothpaste.  In 
1949  he  returned  to  Dudley  to  help 
his  father.  He's  been  a  successful 
Cadillac  dealer  ever  since. 

Bayer  does  maintain  an  active 
interest  in  education,  however.  A 
resident  of  Thompson,  Conn.,  he 
has  served  on  the  town  school  board 
for  eight  years,  four  of  them  as 
chairman. 

Phil  Baker,  fresh  out  of  grad 
school  at  Yale,  followed  up  an  ad  in 
the  New  York  Times  which  pro- 
pelled him  into  the  challenging 
world  of  optics  and  away  from  his 
earlier  goal  of  a  career  in  education. 

The  time  was  1967  and  Baker  de- 
cided that  if  he  was  turning  to  in- 
dustry, he  would  like  to  work  for  a 
company  making  consumer  pro- 
ducts, rather  than  a  defense  oriented 
industry.  The  Polaroid  ad  provided 
the  answer  for  him.  "Cameras  are  a 
popular  consumer  product  most 
often  associated  with  happy  occa- 
sions," he  says.  "Instant  pictures 
speak  a  language  all  their  own, 
breaking  barriers  that  may  exist  be- 
tween strangers." 


Working  at  Polaroid,  one  of  tl 
largest  and  best  known  photo- 
graphic companies  in  the  world,  | 
been  a  challenging  experience  for 
Baker,  who  serves  as  principal  er| 
gineer  at  the  Cambridge  headquai 
ters. 

"We  have  a  unique  product,"  ■ 
explains.  "Instant  cameras  are  oi| 
of  the  few  inventions  created  in  tfi 
United  States  and  never  successfu 
copied  in  any  other  country.  Still 
the  photographic  industry  is  a  ve: 
competitive  field,  and  it  pays  to  1 
step  ahead  of  the  competition,  ar 
also  looking  towards  the  latest 
technological  developments." 

For  example,  Polaroid's  newesi 
product,  the  Pronto,  contains  the 
latest  in  integrated  circuitry  to  pr< 
vide  foolproof  logic  so  that  all  th 
photographer  needs  to  do  is  to 
touch  a  button  and  let  the  earner, 
take  over. 

Baker  has  been  involved  with  m 
development  of  the  color  pack 
cameras,  the  SX-70  camera,  insta 
movies,  and  the  Pronto.  Before  si 
products  reach  the  market,  much 
testing,  analysis,  and  evaluation  i: 
carried  out.  Baker's  group  in  the 
product  engineering  division  worl<j 
from  a  few  months  to  two  years 
prior  to  introduction,  testing 
products  for  their  photographic, 
photometric,  and  optical  perform 
ance. 

His  duties  include  managing  th< 
Polaroid  laboratories  and  providii 
technical  assistance  to  all  of  Polai 
oid's  domestic  and  international 
manufacturing  facilities.  He  also  i 
Polaroid  representative  on  several 
ANSI  committees.  Like  Bayer,  he 
ever,  he  still  keeps  a  warm  spot  ir 
his  heart  for  education.  Four  time 
a  year  he  teaches  an  optics  course 
for  Polaroid. 

Teaching  as  a  full-time  vocatior 
for  John  Bayer  and  Phil  Baker,  n 
be  a  deam  long  gone.  But  it 
certainly  is  not  forgotten. 


30  WPI  Journal 


The  Norton  Spirit. 

A  Penske-prepared  M16C  McLaren  with  an  800 
rsepower  turbo-charged  Offenhauser,  4-cylinder,  twin 
erhead  cam  shaft  engine. 

Not  your  average  company  car.  But,  then,  Norton  is  not 
or  average  company  either. 

As  the  world's  leading  producer  of  abrasives,  with  over 
000  employees  in  89  plant  locations  in  21  countries,  Norton 
leeply  involved  in  the  manufacture  of  thousands  of  products 
ill  shapes,  sizes,  and  materials. 

For  example,  virtually  every  component  on  a  racing  car- 
even  your  family  automobile-  is  shaped,  smoothed,  and 
shed  by  abrasive  products. 


But,  as  a  highly  diversified,  multi-national  company, 
Norton  is  also  pacing  the  field  in  many  other  important  areas. 

In  ceramics,  sealants,  plastics,  synthetics,  chemical 
process  and  bio-medical  products  and  safety  equipment,  the 
Norton  team  has  set  new  and  enviable  records  for  the  imagina- 
tive design  and  development  of  hundreds  of  quality  products. 

Today,  you  can  look  to  this  Norton-sponsored  racing 
machine  for  new  standards  of  performance  on  the  1976  USAC 
circuit.  And  you  can  look  to  Norton  and  its  distributors  for  a 
winning  performance  in  your  own  circles. 
Norton  Company,  World  Headquarters: 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01606. 

Nobody  has  a  better  track  record 


NORTON 


The  Company  Gar 


vm 


mat  v1 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  research  and  development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leaders  in  the  development  of  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


WORCESTER 

NORTH  GRAFTON      MILLBURY 

Midwest  Division:  Harvey,  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 

South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 

Santa  Ana.  California 

WYMAN  GORDON  INDIA,  LTD. 

Bombay.  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


163 


Allen  H.  Hoffman  of  WPI's 
lanical  engineering  department  was  the 
>rof  "The  Worcester  Water  Quality 
/:  A  Joint  Venture  in  Community 
ce"  which  appeared  in  a  recent  issue  of 
lanica/  Engineering.  Last  winter  the  WPI 
;es  approved  tenure  for  Dr.  Hoffman. 
laniel  Kagan  is  a  psychologist  in  the 
if  Boulder  (Colo.)  Personnel  Department. 


164 


ard  Hedlund  has  been  appointed  plant 
ger  of  Borden  Foods  manufacturing 
y  in  Van  Wert,  Ohio.  Previously  he  was 
manager  of  Standard  Brands'  Chicago 
ry  products  plant  and  the  Pennsauken, 
■nargarine  plant.  The  Hedlunds  have  a 
tar-old  son,  Jason.  .  .  .  Another 
ntment  is  that  of  David  E.  Monks, 
s  now  a  coordinator  of  product 
ams  in  the  Kodak  Apparatus  Division 
)  at  Rochester,  N.Y.  In  coordinating  the 
unction,  he  will  be  responsible  for 
n  conventional  still  camera  programs, 
icame  associated  with  KAD  in  1964. 
to  his  latest  promotion,  he  was  on  the 
intendent's  staff  in  the  parts 
facturing  area.  .  .  .  Currently  Dr. 
ne  E.  Niemi,  Jr.  is  an  assistant 
isor  at  the  University  of  Lowell  (Mass.). 
.  James  Tasilio,  Jr.  works  for  New 
nd  Gas  &  Electric  Association  in 
iridge,  Mass. 


165 


\.  Berendes  is  now  associated  with 
II  Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner  &■  Smith,  Inc., 
dence,  R.I.  .  .  .  Robert  H.  Cahill  has 
ne  marketing  and  sales  manager  for 
Homalite  in  Wilmington,  Delaware.  .  .  . 
hen  L.  Cloues  is  a  student  at 
lwestern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary 
t  Worth,  Texas.  .  .  .  Harry  S.  Forrest 
s  as  a  senior  process  engineer  at  FMC 
,  Princeton,  N.J.  He  transferred  from 
bers  to  the  chemical  division  in  January, 
ontinuing  with  Motorola,  William  D. 
Dach  presently  holds  the  post  of 
ger  mid-Atlantic  area  engineering 
es.  He  is  located  in  Arnold,  Md.  .  .  . 
Kelley  is  a  senior  project  manager  at 
•  Corp.,  Augusta,  Me.  .  .  .  Last 
mber  Peter  B.  Kirschmann  was 
oted  to  manager  of  operational  planning 
's  power  transformer  department  in 
eld,  Mass.  He  was  transferred  from 
mack,  N.H. 

bert  D.  Klauber,  a  teacher  of 
:endental  meditation,  will  be  an 
ctor  in  physics  at  Maharishi 
lational  University,  Fairfield,  Iowa, 
ig  in  September.  Bob  writes,  ".  .  .  it  is  a 
rely  new  school  with  an  innovative, 
ic,  and  evolutionary  approach  which  just 
:  revolutionize  our  educational  system." 


.  .  .  Ronald  A.  Lange  was  recently  named 
group  leader  in  the  Infrared  and  Electro- 
Optics  Department  at  Cutler-Hammer's  AIL 
Division  in  Melville,  N.Y.  He  joined  AIL  in 
1965  in  the  Applied  Electronics  Division.  In 
his  new  position  he  will  be  responsible  for  the 
infrared  applications  program.  Earlier  he  had 
served  as  project  engineer  on  major 
programs,  including  one  covering  a 
monopulse  tracking  receiver  for  use  with  C02 
laser  radars.  He  is  an  avid  racing  sailor  and 
participates  in  both  local  and  national 
competitions. 

B.S.  Ramprasad  serves  as  a  senior 
scientific  officer  at  the  Indian  Institute  of 
Science,  Chamarajpet,  Bangalore,  India.  He  is 
engaged  in  teaching  and  research  and 
development  in  optical  engineering,  vacuum 
technology,  and  thin  films.  His  research 
interests  are  in  lasers  and  holography.  As  a 
hobby  he  writes  poetry,  some  of  which  has 
been  published  in  America.  .  .  .  Francis 
"Buddy"  Watson  works  as  assistant  head  of 
the  acquisition  department  at 
LANTNAVFACENGCOM  in  Norfolk,  Va.  .  .  . 
Dr.  John  T.  Wilson,  vice  president  and  chief 
design  engineer  for  Paul  J.  Ford  &  Co., 
structural  engineers,  Columbus,  Ohio,  has 
been  named  as  the  1975  "Young  Engineer  of 
the  Year"  by  the  Ohio  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers.  Currently  Wilson  is 
president-elect  of  the  O.S.P.E.  Franklin' 
County  Chapter.  .  .  .  Arthur  M.  Zweil,  Jr. 
has  been  awarded  the  "Salesperson  of  the 
Year"  Award  for  the  second  year  running  at 
Barbara  Goldberg  Associates,  Inc.,  Beverly, 
Mass.  The  award  is  given  to  the  broker  who 
has  the  highest  volume  of  sales  in  residential 
and  commercial  real  estate.  He  has  been 
president,  treasurer,  and  director  of  the 
Greater  Georgetown  Jaycees  and  is  currently 
treasurer  of  the  Epsilon  Building  Association 
of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity  at  WPI.  He  also 
serves  as  an  adviser  for  two  Junior 
Achievement  companies  in  Georgetown. 


1967 


1966 


Dr.  John  H.  Lauterbach  is  a  section  leader 
at  National  Starch  &  Chemical  Corp., 
Bridgewater,  N.J.  .  .  .  Paul  Malnati  now 
serves  as  manager  of  design  engineering  at 
All  Systems  in  Moorestown,  N.J.  .  .  . 
Currently  Donald  Mugnai  is  associated  with 
E.G.G.  Hydrospace-Challenger  Group  in 
Rockville,  Md.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn., 
Guenther  Pollnow  is  now  senior 
engineering  cost  analyst.  The  Pollnows  have 
two  children,  Tanya  Ann,  4  and  Mathew 
Jacob,  2%.  . . .  Dr.  Joseph  E.  Whalen 
works  as  associate  program  director  at 
Operations  Research,  Inc.  in  Silver  Spring, 
Md.  .  .  .  Eugene  B.  Wilusz,  who  teaches 
chemistry  at  New  Bedford  (Mass.)  High 
School,  has  been  awarded  a  doctor  of 
philosophy  degree  in  polymer  science  and 
engineering  from  UMass,  Amherst.  His 
dissertation  was  entitled  "Studies  in  Polymer 
Compatibility."  He  has  presented  papers  on 
his  research  at  the  Calorimetry  Conference 
and  at  the  national  meeting  of  the  American 
Chemical  Society.  .  .  .  John  K.  Wright 
presently  holds  the  post  of  business  manager, 
Food  Phosphates  of  the  Food  Ingredients 
Division  at  Stauffer  Chemical  Company, 
Westport,  Conn. 


Dr.  Stephen  R.  Alpert  has  been  promoted 
to  associate  professor  of  computer  science  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  Richard  H.  Court,  Jr.  is  employed 
as  a  senior  quality  assurance  engineer  in  the 
quality  assurance  department,  Instrument 
Division,  at  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.  in  Norwalk, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Thomas  A.  Keenan  was  recently 
appointed  controller  of  the  Torin  Corp., 
Torrington,  Conn.  In  1969  he  joined  the 
company  as  a  development  engineer  with  the 
Connecticut  air  moving  division  and  was 
appointed  divisional  accounting  manager  for 
North  American  division  in  1974.  .  .  . 
Leonard  E.  Odell  has  been  elected  an 
actuary  of  the  Hartford  Life  Insurance 
Company  and  Hartford  Life  and  Accident 
Insurance  Company.  He  will  be  responsible 
for  the  development  of  new  individual  life 
insurance  products.  In  1973  he  became 
associated  with  the  firm  as  associate  actuary, 
following  five  years'  experience  with  Aetna 
Life  and  Casualty.  .  .  .  Stan  Pietrewicz  is  a 
senior  associate  at  Analytics,  Inc.,  McLean, 
Va. 


1968 


Married:  Frank  H.  Corbiere  and  Miss  Margie 
Pianki  of  Hamden,  Connecticut  on  June  14, 
1975.  The  bride  and  groom  are  missionaries 
working  with  the  Literature  Crusades  in 
Cartogena,  Colombia,  South  America. 
Corbiere  is  planning  to  enroll  in  the  Gordon- 
Conwell  Theological  Seminary  graduate 
program  in  South  Hamilton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Gregory  C.  Cox  and  Pauline  J.  Carmean  in 
Arlington,  Virginia  on  April  24,  1976.  Mrs. 
Cox,  who  is  from  Meriden,  Conn.,  is 
employed  as  a  loan  officer  at  Fand  M 
National  Bank  in  Arlington.  The  groom  is 
working  at  the  Naval  Ordnance  Station, 
Indian  Head,  Md.,  where  he  is  a  project 
engineer  in  the  Amines  Fuels  Program. 

Michael  C.  Annon   an  instrument  and 
control  engineer  for 
Gilbert/Commonwealth  in  Reading,  Pa. 
. .  .  Ken  Gminski  was  recently  promoted  to 
senior  engineer  status  in  addition  to  his 
residency  status  (field  engineer)  of  New 
Hampshire  for  Factory  Mutual  Engineering. 
His  job  consists  of  visiting  the  industrial 
plants  that  FM  insures  throughout  the  state, 
providing  a  loss  prevention  service  for  fire 
and  other  perils  covered  in  their  insurance 
policies.  Ken  has  also  started  studying  for  his 
MBA  degree  evenings  at  Rivier  College, 
Nashua.  He  and  his  wife,  Ruthanne,  reside  in 
Windham.  ...  Dr.  Mark  Hubelbank  holds 
the  post  of  chief  of  computer  research  at 
Electronics  for  Medicine  in  Sudbury,  Mass. 
He  is  also  a  research  affiliate  at  MIT. 

Steven  Medoff,  who  received  his  MBA 
from  Harvard  last  year,  is  now  a  business 
consultant  at  Tree  Associates  in  Lexington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  William  Nordstrom  works  as  a 
project  engineer  for  Mass.  Oxygen  Equipment 
Co.,  Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  Stephen  J. 
Stadnicki  is  currently  employed  at  Chevron 
Research,  Richmond,  Calif.  .  .  .  Edward  M. 
Zakrzewski  is  a  technical  service  engineer  at 
Cincinnati  Milacron  in  Batavia,  Ohio. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  33 


1969 


Married:  James  T.  Rodier  and  Miss  Deborah 
McLaughlin  on  May  8,  1976  in  Durham,  New 
Hampshire.  Mrs.  Rodier  graduated  from 
Simmons  College  and  the  Newton-Wellesley 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  She  is  a 
registered  nurse  with  the  Orentreich  Medical 
Group  in  New  York  City.  Her  husband,  a 
graduate  of  Suffolk  University  Law  School,  is 
associated  with  National  Economic  Research 
Associates,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Massachusetts  Bar 
Association. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Charles  E.  Trent,  a 
daughter,  Christine  Lynne,  on  May  5,  1976. 
The  Trents  also  have  a  son,  Brian,  who  is 
three. 

James  A.  Alford  has  joined  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Bruce  L.  Carlson 
works  for  Northeast  Utilities  in  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Charles  T.  Doe  has  been 
promoted  to  senior  actuarial  associate  in  the 
actuarial  organization  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Company  of  America  in 
Worcester.  He  received  his  MS  from 
Northeastern  in  1973  and  joined  State  Mutual 
in  1969.  Two  years  ago  he  was  named 
actuarial  associate.  .  .  .  Currently  J.B.  Flynn 
serves  as  product  manager  of  GE's  Taiwan 
operation  in  Taipei.  .  .  .Mark  H.  LePain 
works  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Westinghouse 
in  Towson,  Md.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  Du 
Pont,  Stephen  O.  Rogers  is  presently  senior 
supervisor  for  the  firm  in  Gibbstown,  N.J.  .  .  . 
Dr.  Donald  W.  Rule  is  a  research  associate 
for  the  National  Research  Council  at  Goddard 
Space  Flight  Center,  Greenbelt,  Md.  .  .  . 
Robert  Stessel  owns  Danversport  Marine 
Electronics  in  Danvers,  Mass.  He  resides  on 
the  research  vessel  "Kelpie"  on  the  Porter 
River  in  Danversport.  .  .  .  Peter  R.  Walsh 
holds  the  post  of  district  manager  at  the 
Bussman  Mfg.  Division  of  McGraw-Edison 
Co.,  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 


1970 


Daniel  K.  Breen  is  a  technical  specialist  for 
New  England  Recruiters  in  Worcester.  .  .  . 
Domenic  J.  Forcella,  Jr.  has  been 
appointed  a  member  and  chairperson  of  the 
Council  on  Environmental  Quality  by 
Connecticut  Governor  Ella  Grasso.  Previously 
he  was  chairperson  of  the  Plainville  Inland 
Wetlands  Commission  and  a  consultant  for 
an  environmental  studies  program  at  Central 
Connecticut  State  College  in  New  Britain. 
Currently  he  is  Democratic  town  chairman 
and  Justice  of  the  Peace  in  Plainville.  .  .  . 
Sister  Mildred  Marengo  S.S.J.,  was 
recently  appointed  assistant  principal  at 
Cathedral  High  School  in  Springfield,  Mass. 
She  has  taught  science  at  the  school  since 
1959  and  served  as  chairman  of  the  science 
department.  .       Edward  Mason  works  as 
plant  manager  at  Amoco  Plastic  Products 
Co.,  Seymour,  Indiana.  The  plant  has  150 
employees.  .  .     Raymond  T.  Pajer  is  an 
electrical  engineer  at  Smith  Corona  Research 
and  Development  Laboratory  in  Danbury, 


Conn.  .  .  .  Bruce  E.  Samuelson  now  works 
for  R.K.  Chase  Co.,  Inc.,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Christopher  A.  Spencer  continues  with 
Factory  Mutual  Engineering,  Assoc, 
Norwood,  Mass.,  where  he  is  presently  a 
staff  engineer. 


1971 


Married:  Daniel  J.  Dunleavy  to  Miss  Ann  L. 
Robinson  of  Scotia,  New  York  on  May  8, 
1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Western 
College  for  Women,  Oxford,  Ohio  and 
Suffolk  University.  The  groom,  who  received 
his  MBA  from  Boston  University,  is  a  sales 
engineer  for  Berg,  DiMare  &  Berg,  Boston. 
...  Dr.  Richard  P.  SanAntonio  to  Dr. 
Pamela  J.  Pratt  on  May  22,  1976  in  St.  Louis, 
Missouri.  The  bride  and  groom  are  both 
graduates  of  Washington  University  School 
of  Medicine.  They  began  their  residencies  at 
Walter  Reed  Medical  Center  in  Washington, 
D.C.  in  July.  She  is  in  pediatrics  and  he  is  in 
internal  medicine.  .  .  .  Robert  M.  Sinicrope 
and  Miss  Dianne  Lair  in  Milton, 
Massachusetts  on  June  12,  1976.  Mrs. 
Sinicrope  is  originally  from  Corpus  Christi, 
Texas  and  owns  and  operates  a  dog- 
grooming  business.  The  groom  teaches  math 
and  music  at  Milton  Academy. 

Robert  Anderson  is  a  process  engineer  at 
Michigan  Chemical  in  Ann  Arbor.  The 
Andersons  have  two  daughters,  Sharon,  3V2 
and  Heather,  almost  a  year  old.  .  .  .  Jeffrey 
Askanazi  is  a  resident  in  surgery  at 
Columbia  Presbyterian  Hospital  in  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  Barry  F.  Belanger  and  his  wife  are 
self-employed  jewelry  designer-craftsmen  in 
Kingston,  Ark.  They  are  building  up  their 
rural  homestead  and  gardens  and  are  working 
on  energy  conservation.  They  use  solar 
energy  for  heating.  .  .  .  Formerly  located  in 
Boston,  Paul  J.  Bienick  is  now  with  Stone 
&  Webster  in  Mineral,  Va.  He  is  currently 
working  on  nuclear  power  plants  at  Lake 


Anna  for  the  Virginia  Electric  Power 
Company.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  Richard  Brunet  he 
completed  weapon  systems  officer  trair 
MacDill  AFB,  Fla.  in  the  F-4  Phantom  fi\* 
bomber.  He  is  being  assigned  to  Torrejc'A 
Spain  for  duty  with  a  unit  of  the  U.S.  A* 
Forces  in  Europe. 

Dr.  Thomas  C.  Coleman  is  with  the 
power  department  at  United  Engineers  H 
Constructors  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Gordon  E. 
Govalet  is  employed  by  Bechtel  Power  I 
in  Gaithersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  Steen  Hannib1 
has  become  associated  with  Medicotekr'lc 
Lab.  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark.  .  .  .  Ken  it 
R.  Perkins  works  at  Singer  Librascope 
Glendale,  Calif.  .  .  .  Lawrence  E.  Rainv  i 
with  Raytheon  Data  Systems  in  Norwoc' 
Mass.  .  .  .  Donald  Tanana  serves  as  oft^ 
manager  at  Bristol  Myers  Co.  in  La  Mirali 
Calif.  .  .  .  Robert  A.  Woollacott  is 
administrative  manager  of  purchasing  at' 
Curtis  1000,  Inc.,  Smyrna,  Georgia. 


1972 


Married:  Dennis  J.  Lipka  and  Miss  Lindc 
Prouty  on  February  14,  1976  in  Holden, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College  and  is  a 
kindergarten  teacher.  The  groom  is  a 
coordinator  of  parental-involvement  progr 
for  the  special  programs  office  of  the  Cen 
Falls  (R.I.)  public  school  department. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Alfred  J.  LeBel, 
daughter,  Anne  Laureen,  on  February  4, 
1976.  LeBel  is  an  actuarial  analyst  at 
Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

Peter  Bertasi  is  a  chemical  sales 
representative  for  Olin  Corporation  in 
Charlotte,  N.C.  .  .  .  Joseph  D.  Bianca  sei 
as  superintendent  of  modeling  and 
component  research  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn.  The 
Biancas  have  a  two-year-old  daughter  and 
baby  son.  .  .  .  Michael  J.  Emery  is  a  proj 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


34  WPI  Journal 


ineer  in  CjE  s  plastics  aepartment  in 
.field,  Mass.  The  Emerys  have  a  three- 
old  son,  Jamie.  .  .  .  Currently  Roy  A. 
iblad  is  a  graduate  student  at  Case 
stern  Reserve  University  School  of  Dental 
iicine  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Continuing 
i  Filterite  Corporation,  Thomas  O. 
rphy  now  holds  the  post  of  production 
lager.  He  is  located  in  Timonium,  Md. 
.G-  Perkins  holds  the  position  of  chief 
jrammer  at  Adams-Smith,  Inc.  in 
boro,  Mass.  .  .  .  1/Lt.  John  D.  Powers, 
/vife,  Betzi,  and  1  Vi  year-old  son,  Jay, 
;  returned  to  the  U.S.  after  a  three-year 
in  Germany.  Currently  Powers  is  a 
onnel  officer  with  the  Engineer  School 
ade  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  .  Loren  B. 
th  continues  as  a  scientist  at  the  Bettis 
nic  Power  Labs  for  Westinghouse  and  is 
ted  in  West  Mifflin,  Pa.  .  .  .  Presently 
lard  A.  Sojka  is  department  head  of  raw 
;rial  receiving  and  outside  warehousing  at 
ol,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Kenneth 
t/adland  has  completed  all  course 
irements  and  examinations  and  has  been 
ed  a  candidate  for  the  degree  of  doctor 
lilosophy  in  mathematics  at  the 
ersity  of  New  Hampshire.  He  has  been 
ded  a  Summer  Fellowship  to  begin 
ng  his  dissertation  on  "quasi-similarity  of 
ices  over  bounded  analytic  functions." 


1974 


973 


i  ;:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Steven  W.  Brennan 

I    first  child,  Aaron  William,  on  December 
!  !975.  Presently  Brennan  is  a  chemical 
i  neer  for  the  department  of  the  Navy  at 
I  Maval  Ordnance  Station  in  Indian  Head, 
t  Recently  he  participated  in  a  crash  pilot 
»  ram  to  develop  a  new  production 
I  lod  to  produce  a  critical  Air  Force 
)  ellant.  ...  to  Richard  L.  Sargent  and 
I  ne  Lamberto  Sargent  '75,  a  son,  Peter, 
(  itly.  Peter  has  a  two-year-old  sister, 
I   .  Sargent  is  a  project  engineer  at  Sala 
v  netics,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 

imes  W.  Davis  is  a  district 
(  tentative  at  Nalco  Chemical  Co.  in  Oak 
3  >k,  III.  .  .  .  Michael  S.  Gipps  works  as  a 
«  arch  engineer  at  Dow  Chemical  in 
I  burg,  Calif.  .  .  .  Andrew  Langdon  is  a 
>i  ent  at  Wharton  School,  University  of 
I  lsylvania,  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  Robert  F. 
b   serves  as  district  sales  manager  at 
I  er  Transicold  Co.  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
^  ert  A.  Manes,  who  received  his  MA  in 
Ei  ish  from  Purdue  University  last  year,  will 
>  jaching  English  composition  and  an 
n  disciplinary  humanities  seminar  for 
lr  lmen  at  Lander  College,  Greenwood, 
S    starting  this  fall. 

lilip  C.  Mazzie  has  been  promoted  to 
it  eant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  He  is  a 
te  >hone  equipment  installer  at  Wright- 
P  erson  AFB,  Ohio  with  a  unit  of  the  Air 
Fi  e  Communications  Service.  .  .  .  Richard 
H  'age  is  a  senior  construction  engineer  at 
S  le  &  Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Thomas  M. 
S  age  serves  as  a  production  engineer  in 
tr  plasties  division  at  GE  in  Selkirk,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
V*  ren  F.  Smith  is  an  engineer  in  building 
rr  jrials  research  at  GAF  Corp.,  South 
B  fid  Brook,  N.J.  .  .  .  Harvey  A.  Vigneault 
h-.  s  the  post  of  senior  engineer  at  C.F. 
B  m  in  Alhambra,  Calif. 


Married:  Ens.  James  M.  Asaro  and  Miss 
Belinda  C.  Jackson  of  Pensacola,  Florida  on 
February  14,  1976.  The  groom  was 
designated  a  naval  aviator  and  received  his 
Navy  wings  on  January  23.  Currently  he  is 
stationed  in  Jacksonville.  .  .  .  Gary  Golnik  to 
Miss  Mary  E.  St.  Martin  of  Northbridge, 
Massachusetts  recently.  The  bridegroom 
received  his  master's  degree  in  optics  from 
the  University  of  Rochester  (NY)  in 
December.  He  is  employed  as  an 
experimental  engineer  in  the  laser 
development  group  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  in  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  Paul  E. 
Nordstrom  and  Miss  Suzanne  M.  Nadeau  in 
Woonsocket,  Rhode  Island  on  May  31,  1976. 
Mrs.  Nordstrom,  a  registered  nurse  at  New 
England  Baptist  Hospital,  Boston,  graduated 
from  St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing 
in  Worcester.  Her  husband  is  a  quality 
control  engineer  for  the  California  State 
Water  Resources  Control  Board  in 
Sacramento.  .  .  .  Michael  W.  Szteliga  and 
Miss  Theresa  Ann  Cahill  on  February  21,  1976 
in  Fall  River,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Szteliga 
graduated  from  Durfee  High  School  and  is  a 
bookkeeper  at  Appel's  Tire  Co.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Monsanto  in  Indian 
Orchard,  Mass. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dan  Brunell  a  son, 
Steven  Andrew,  on  February  5,  1976.  Brunell 
is  an  industrial  engineer  with  Louis  Lefkowitz 
&  Bros.,  Milltown,  N.J. 

"Without  Bill  Delphos,"  states  a  recent 
issue  of  Buzzword,  a  publication  prepared  by 
the  Graduate  School  of  Management  (GSM) 
at  Northwestern  University,  "there  could  be 
no  Careers  '76  program.  The  planning, 
scheduling,  promoting,  and  executing  of  the 
many  sessions  was  all  Bill's  work."  (The 
program  is  regarded  as  valuable  in  helping 
the  graduate  students  plan  their  careers.)  Bill 
was  also  cited  for  his  guiding  influence  in  the 
Marketing  Group  and  the  Fall  Management 
Conference.  The  article  sums  up  his  efforts 
saying,."lf  ever  someone  deserved  an  award 
for  contributions  to  GSM,  above  and  beyond 
the  call  of  duty,  Bill  Delphos  does." 

Donald  W.  Gross  has  been  commissioned 
a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force 
upon  graduation  from  Officer  Training 
School  at  Lackland  AFB,  Texas.  He  is  now  at 
Mather  AFB,  Calif.,  for  navigator  training.  .  .  . 
James  F.  Ingraham,  a  project  engineer  for 
Polaroid  Corp.,  New  Bedford,  Mass.,  is  in 
charge  of  engineering  in  the  area  of  silver 
emulsions.  .  .  .  Alan  Judd  serves  as  a 
manufacturing  management  trainee  at  GE  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Carlos  L  Kassel  has 
been  promoted  to  assistant  manager  in 
charge  of  all  government  loans  at  First 
National  City  Bank  in  Mexico  City.  Earlier  he 
served  as  a  credit  analyst.  He  joined  the  bank 
following  graduation.  .  .  .  Peter  W. 
Kotilainen  was  recently  named 
administrative  and  technical  assistant  to  the 
department  of  cardiology  at  St.  Vincent 
Hospital,  Worcester.  Presently  he  is  a 
doctoral  candidate  at  WPI.  In  his  new 
assignment  he  will  be  in  charge  of 
administrative  matters  and  will  provide 
technical  assistance  for  the  cardiology 
department.  Also,  he  will  supervise  the 
hospital's  critical  care  team. 


Z./LX.  narvey  b.  raenson,  us>ai-,  is 
stationed  at  Robins  AFB  in  Georgia.  .  .  .  Gary 
G.  Pontbriand  is  a  production  engineer  at 
New  Jersey  Zinc  Co.,  Palmerton,  Pa.  .  .  . 
Chandrakant  Shah  holds  the  post  of  senior 
engineer  at  C.F.  Braun  &  Co.,  Alhambra, 
Calif.  Previously  he  was  with  Procon,  Inc.  in 
Des  Plaines,  III.  .  .  .  Charles  M.  Waldron  and 
Irene  Jordan  Waldron  are  self-employed 
agricultural  engineers  in  Hollis,  Me.  .  .  .  Steve 
Williams  is  a  foreman  at  the  GE  plant  in 
Lynn,  Mass. 


1975 


Married:  Joel  F.  Angelico  and  Miss  Janet  A. 
Gravel  on  May  29,  1976  in  West  Springfield, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  teaching 
assistant  at  Willie  Ross  School  for  the  Deaf, 
Longmeadow,  graduated  from  Anna  Maria 
College,  Paxton.  The  bridegroom  is 
production  supervisor  for  Estee  Lauder  Co., 
Melville,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Robert  M.  Aubrey  and 
Miss  Mary  Beth  Tucker  on  January  3,  1976  in 
Sterling,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Aubrey 
graduated  from  UMass  and  is  studying  for 
her  master's  at  Syracuse  (N.Y.)  University. 
The  groom  is  employed  by  Mutual  of  Omaha, 
Syracuse.  .  .  .  Michael  J.  Dolan  and  Miss 
Debora  M.  Elworthy  on  May  22,  1976  in 
Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
attended  Worcester  State  College  and  is 
presently  a  student  at  Elmhurst  (III.)  College. 
Her  husband,  who  is  with  Universal  Oil 
Products,  Chicago,  is  also  a  graduate  student 
at  Loyola  University. 

Married:  Robert  E.  Horner  to  Miss 
Suzanne  Hughes  on  September  6,  1975.  The 
groom  is  assistant  director  of  Sure  Aire  Ltd., 
New  York  City.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Hudson  and 
Miss  Danielle  M.  Chouinard,  '74  in 
Franconia,  New  Hampshire  on  March  27, 
1976.  The  bride,  who  also  did  graduate  work 
at  WPI,  is  a  civil  engineer.  Her  husband  is  a 
chemical  engineer.  .  .  .  James  F.  Lane  and 
Miss  Celeste  M.  Tetrault  in  Worcester  on 
June  28,  1975.  .  .  .  Steven  F.  Manzi  to  Miss 
Joanne  H.  Bey  on  May  31,  1976  in  Holyoke, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Manzi  graduated  from 
Providence  Hospital  School  of  Radiology  and 
Holyoke  Community  College.  She  is  a 
registered  radiologic  technician.  The  groom  is 
a  research  assistant  working  for  his  master's 
degree  at  MIT. 

K.  Sohraby  Anaraky  is  a  teaching  fellow 
at  Brooklyn  Polytechnic  Institute  of  New 
York.  .  .  .  Jon  T.  Anderson  is  a  student  at 
Yale  Law  School,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  . . 
Karen  Arbige  serves  as  a  software 
programmer  at  Index  Systems,  Inc., 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  C.  Aseltine, 
Jr.,  a  graduate  student  at  WPI,  recently 
returned  from  the  11th  Annual  Association 
for  the  Advancement  of  Medical 
Instrumentation  Conference  in  Atlanta,  Ga. 
His  undergraduate  project  and  current 
master's  thesis  entitled  "Feedback  Control  of 
Heart  Rate  During  Exercise"  was  presented 
at  the  conference.  The  idea  and  device 
designed  by  him  may  be  used  in  the 
rehabilitation  of  patients  with  cardiac 
diseases.  .  .  .  Alan  R.  Bergstrom  works  as  a 
technical  assistant  for  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  department  of  biochemistry  in 
Worcester. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  35 


David  R.  Chevalier  has  been  appointed 
manager  of  the   carpeting  department  at 
Chevalier  Furniture  and  Carpeting  in 
Worcester.    .  .  .  Paul  J.  Ciesla,  who  is  with 
the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection  Agency,  is 
currently  located  in  Pacifica,  Calif.  .  .  .  Harry 
F.  Danberg  is  a  process  engineer  at  FMC 
Corp.'s  coke  plant  in  Kemmerer, 
Wyoming.  .  .  .  Michael  J.  Dudas  holds  the 
post  of  vice  president  at  Electrodes,  Inc.  in 
Roselle  Park,  N.J.  Presently  he  is  in 
engineering  sales  throughout  Pennsylvania, 
New  York,  and  New  Jersey.  .  .  .  Jay  L. 
Gainsboro  serves  as  a  self-employed  district 
sales  manager  for  Opus,  Inc.,  in  Wheeling, 
Illinois.  .  .  .  Richard  J.  Orsini  works  as  a 
manufacturing  engineer  for  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  Elizabeth  A. 
Pennington  has  joined  Equitable  Life 
Assurance  Society  of  the  U.S.  in  New  York 
City. 

Richard  A.  Perreault  is  a  sales  engineer 
for  General  Electric  Medical  Systems  in 
Whippany,  N.J.  ...  Dr.  Robert  R. 
Ritten house  teaches  at  Pine  Tree  Academy 
in  Freeport,  Me.  .  .  .  James  F.  Roberts  is 
doing  graduate  work  at  Anna  Maria  College 
in  Paxton,  Mass.  .  .  .  Gary  Rodgers  serves 
as  a  captain  with  the  U.S.  Army  and  will  be 
stationed  in  Korea  until  October.  .  .  .  Paul  M. 
Stein  is  studying  for  his  doctorate  at  the 
University  of  North  Dakota  Medical  School  in 
the  Department  of  Physiology  and 
Pharmacology.  He  is  graduate  teaching  and 
research  assistant.  .  .  .  Mark  W.  Stewart 
holds  the  post  of  quality  engineer  at 
Combustion  Engineering.  He  and  his  wife, 
Carolyn,  reside  in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Margaret  St.  John  works  as  an  electron 
microscopy  technician  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital 
in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Ens.  Michael  Sundberg 
(USN)  is  currently  stationed  in  Alaska.  .  .  . 
James  I.  Watts  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Crosby  Valve  &  Gauge  Co.  in  Wrentham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Mark  P.  Youngstrom  has  been 
employed  as  an  environmental  engineer  at 
Pickard  &  Anderson  in  Auburn,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Johnny  Yuk  is  studying  for  his  MS  at  Ohio 
State  University  in  Columbus. 


Frank  W.  Grant,  former  physical  education 
instructor  and  swimming  coach  at  WPI,  died 
on  January  19,  1976  in  Holden, 
Massachusetts.  He  was  74. 

He  was  born  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  and  served 
at  WPI  from  1929  to  1968.  He  started  as  a 
swimming  coach  and  became  a  physical 
education  instructor  in  1952.  In  1968  he 
retired  as  instructor  emeritus  in  physical 
education  and  athletics. 

At  WPI  he  developed  a  number  of  record 
holders  including  Robert  Rounds,  '64 
(sprints),  while  students  Joe  Rogers,  '29 
became  a  swim  coach  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Amherst  and  Johnny  Tinker, 
'32  a  coach  in  Gardner. 

In  1923  Grant  set  a  record  for  the  senior 
50-yard  free-style  competition  sponsored  by 
the  New  England  Amateur  Athletic  Union,  a 
record  which  stood  until  shortly  before  his 
retirement.  At  22  he  won  the  Pacific 
Northwest  AAU  50-yard  dash  crown.  In  1924 
he  tried  out  for  the  Olympic  team  with 
Johnny  Weismuller. 

Ellery  B.  Paine,  '97,  former  head  of  the 
University  of  Illinois  electrical  engineering 
department  for  31  years,  died  on  February  28, 
1976  in  Urbana,  Illinois.  He  was  100  years  old. 

Prof.  Paine  was  born  in  Willington,  Conn, 
on  October  9,  1875  and  was  graduated  from 
WPI  in  1897  as  an  electrical  engineer.  He 
received  his  master's  degree  from  WPI  in 
1898.  In  1907  he  began  teaching  at  the 
University  of  Illinois,  becoming  department 
head  in  1913  and  retiring  in  1944.  During  his 
career,  sound-on-film  movies  were  developed 
at  the  university,  and  in  the  first  public 
demonstration  on  June  9,  1922,  Prof.  Paine 
was  the  first  man  to  appear  in  talking  movies. 
He  recited  the  Gettysburg  Address. 

Recalling  the  controversy  following  his 
talking-movie  debut,  Paine  reported  that 
movie  producers  claimed  that  sound  would 
ruin  the  industry  because  the  public  was  only 
interested  in  pantomime.  One  producer 
declared,  "I  wouldn't  give  10  cents  for  the 
discovery." 

Prof  Paine  was  an  eminent  member  of  Eta 
Kappa  Nu  and  also  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  ASEE,  the  American  Society  for 
Engineering  Education,  and  Western  Society 
of  Engineers. 


Percy  M.  Hall,  '07  a  retired  plant  supHsol 
in  the  long  lines  department  for  Americi  i 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  New  Yorklhtf 
passed  away  on  February  23,  1976.  He  'as' 
90. 

A  native  of  Fall  River,  Mass.,  he  was  or* 
on  February  20,  1886.  After  graduating  or 
WPI  with  a  BSEE,  he  joined  AT&T  in  11 
and  remained  with  the  company  until  N 
retired  in  1946.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Ci,K 
Telephone  Pioneers  of  America  and  thd  • 
Masons. 

Wilbur  C.  Searle,  '07  died  on  Decemb  3 
1975  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  93. 

A  mechanical  engineer,  he  had  workijlp 
Heald  Machine  Co.,  Norton  Co.,  Worcelar 
Machine  Screw  Co.,  Reed  &  Prince  Mf  Ifij 
and  Leland  Gifford  Co.  as  sales  engine*1 
metallurgist  and  tool  designer.  He  retirew 
1958  but  remained  active  in  his  professh 
until  1966. 

Mr.  Searle  was  a  native  of  New  Britai 
Conn,  and  belonged  to  ASME,  Americal 
Society  for  Metals,  and  the  Worcester 
Engineering  Society.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  a  member  of  i» 
Tatnuck  Club  and  Tech  Old  Timers.  He  |g| 
former  officer  in  the  Worcester  chapter  M 
Alumni  Association. 


Herbert  M.  Carleton,  '08  a  retired  insu 
broker,  passed  away  on  February  13,  19 
Worcester  at  the  age  of  89. 

A  native  of  Plymouth,  Mass.,  he  was 
on  March  12,  1886.  In  1908  he  graduated 
civil  engineer  from  WPI.  He  had  been  wr 
the  Boston  &  Albany  Railroad,  Americar 
Steel  &  Wire,  and  Economic  Machinery  l| 
Worcester.  In  1972  he  retired  after  57  ye( 
as  a  broker  for  Connecticut  General  Life! 
Insurance  Co. 

Mr.  Carleton  was  a  past  president  of  til 
Tech  Old  Timers  and  belonged  to  Sigmal 
Epsilon. 

Frank  E.  Hawkes,  '09  of  Menlo  Park, 
California  passed  away  on  May  4,  1976  a 
a  short  illness.  He  was  89. 

He  was  born  on  Oct.  25,  1886  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  and  graduated  from  ' 
as  a  chemist.  During  his  career  he  was 
associated  with  Du  Pont;  Dennison  Mfg. 
Hydrocarbon  Co.  (owner-president);  and 
California  Ink  Co.  In  1960  he  retired  after 
years  as  a  consultant  to  the  paint  and  va 
industry.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  I" 
served  as  vice  president  of  the  Northern 
California  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associate 

Harold  J.  Riley  '09  of  Winnipeg,  Manitc 
Canada,  died  on  July  7,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  November  29,  1887  in 
Winnipeg.  In  1909  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  He  receh 
his  BA  from  Manitoba  University  in  1910 

During  his  career  he  was  with  F.W.  Bii 
Son,  Walpole,  Mass.;  studied  law,  and  w 
partner  in  the  firm  of  Fillmore,  Riley  & 
Fillmore,  barristers  and  solicitors  in  Winn 
He  was  wounded  in  World  War  I  and 
received  the  Distinguished  Service  Order 
Later  he  was  appointed  general  officer 
commanding  military  district  No.  10  in 
Wnnipeg. 


36  WPI  Journal 


tive  in  community  arrairs,  ne  was 
man  of  the  Community  Chest,  an 
jtive  with  the  Manitoba  Red  Cross  and 
dent  of  the  Manitoba  Bar  Association, 
elonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  and  Sigma 


fie  A.  Atherton,  '10  former  honorary 
tary  of  the  International  Commission  on 
ination,  died  on  April  24,  1976  in 
;hester,  New  Hampshire,  after  a  long 
s.  He  was  88. 

:er  graduating  with  his  BSEE  from  WPI, 
jcame  associated  with  Westinghouse, 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.;  Bergmann  Electricitaets 
;e,  Berlin,  Germany;  British 
inghouse  Co.;  Goodyear  Tire,  Akron, 
;  General  Electric,  Cleveland;  and 
bus  S.A.  in  Switzerland,  a  company 
tained  by  the  incandescent  lamp 
>anies  outside  of  America.  He  also 
ed  for  Consolidated  Lamp,  Lynn,  Mass.; 
Vestinghouse  International. 
.  Atherton,  who  wrote  a  book  about 
ical  advertising,  belonged  to  Theta  Chi, 
,  Sigma  Xi,  and  was  a  fellow  of  the 
nating  Engineering  Society.  He  was 
on  June  3,  1887  in  Worcester.  During 
i  War  I  he  served  in  the  U.S.  Navy. 

les  E.  Barney,  '10  former  class 
tary,  passed  away  on  November  21, 
in  Holyoke,  Massachusetts.  He  was  88 
old. 

m  on  September  9,  1887  in  South 
>rth,  N.H.,  he  later  graduated  from  WPI 
:ivil  engineer.  He  was  associated  with 
Sawyer  Landscape  Construction  Co., 
ge  A.  Fuller  Construction  Co.,  Boston, 
ison  Bros.,  and  P.J.  Kennedy 
ractors  of  Holyoke.  For  many  years  he 
superintendent  of  public  works  in  South 
jy,  Mass.,  a  position  from  which  he 
d  in  1957. 

.  Barney,  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi 
>n,  was  prominent  for  30  years  in 
:ing  and  was  the  recipient  of  the  Silver 
er  Award.  He  was  a  past  president  of 
ri-County  Highway  Superintendents' 
ciation,  past  president  of  the  Lions  Club, 
president  of  the  South  Hadley  Center 
s  Club  and  Past  Noble  Grand  of  the  lona 
e  of  Odd  Fellows.  In  1959  he  was  named 
K  Hadley's  Outstanding  Citizen  of  the 


'ard  P.  Chace,  '11  of  Worcester  passed 
'  recently. 

was  born  on  October  25,  1890  in 
dence,  R.I.  and  graduated  as  a 
lanical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1911. 
een  1911  and  1955  he  was  with  Norton 
pany,  Worcester.  He  was  a  former 
'am  chairman  for  Tech  Old  Timers  and  a 
ber  of  Montacute  Lodge,  Worcester. 

i  P.  Cronin,  '11  of  Wnchester, 
achusetts,  died  on  October  29,  1975. 
ter  attending  high  school  in  Worcester, 
udied  at  WPI.  He  served  as  assistant  to 
ice  president  of  the  Boston  and  Maine 
)ad  and  became  office  engineer  in 
>n.  He  was  also  a  designer-engineer  for 
I  &  A  Railroad  and  maintenance 
■visor  for  the  Middlesex  County  National 


unanes  i-.  uooancn,   11  ot  west  KoxDury, 
Massachusetts  died  on  November  15,  1975  at 
the  age  of  87. 

A  co-founder  of  Andrews  and  Goodrich, 
Inc.,  a  textile  machinery  company  in 
Dorchester,  he  was  president  of  the  firm  until 
his  retirement  in  1949.  He  came  out  of 
retirement  in  1962  to  serve  as  engineering 
and  financial  consultant  to  the  Goodrich 
Engineering  Co.  of  Rockland,  where  he 
remained  until  his  final  retirement  in  1972. 

Mr.  Goodrich  was  born  in  Portsmouth, 
N.H.,  later  studying  at  WPI.  He  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and  a  World 
War  I  Army  veteran. 


George  I.  Gilchrest,  '12  a  former 
engineering  manager  at  Westinghouse  in 
Derry,  Pa.,  passed  away  in  Mesa,  Arizona  on 
October  17,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  November  13,  1890  in 
Lunenburg,  Mass.  After  graduating  from  WPI 
as  an  electrical  engineer  in  1912,  he  joined 
Westinghouse  and  remained  with  the 
company  until  his  retirement  43  years  later. 
He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Tau  Beta 
Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and  was  an  associate  member 
of  AIEE. 


Arthur  C.  Burleigh,  '13,  the  former 
president  and  treasurer  of  the  Nedco 
Company,  Waltham,  Massachusetts,  died 
suddenly  on  May  22,  1976  at  Cape  Cod 
Hospital,  Hyannis.  He  was  85  years  old. 

A  native  of  Franklin,  N.H.,  he  graduated  as 
an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  For  several 
years  he  worked  for  Ritter  and  Connolly  in 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He  then  joined  Nedco  and 
remained  with  the  company  until  his 
retirement  a  few  years  ago.  Nedco  marketed 
sanding  and  polishing  machines  which  Mr. 
Burleigh  had  invented  and  patented. 

He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  Skull  and 
was  a  50-year  veteran  of  the  Scottish  Rite 
bodies,  as  well  as  a  former  officer  of  the 
Newton  Savings  Bank. 

J.  Arthur  Kenneally,  '13  of  Hamilton, 
Massachusetts,  a  retired  secretary  to  Salem 
school  superintendents  and  school 
committees  for  40  years,  died  at  the  age  of 
85  on  December  26,  1975. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  he  worked  four 
years  for  the  state  highway  department. 
While  he  served  the  city  of  Salem,  he  was 
responsible  for  the  efficient  administration  of 
the  city's  public  schools.  He  retired  in  1959 
and  was  a  Navy  veteran  of  World  War  1 . 


William  H.  Evans,  '14  died  of  heart  disease 
on  January  5,  1976  at  the  home  of  his 
daughter  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

He  was  a  vice  president  of  the  Firth- 
Sterling  Carbide  Co.,  a  mining  equipment 
manufacturer,  until  his  retirement  in  1957. 
After  retirement  he  served  as  a  consultant  to 
a  number  of  firms.  He  held  several  patents  on 
mining  equipment. 

Mr.  Evans  was  born  on  Sept.  2,  1891  and 
later  he  became  a  student  at  WPI.  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and  was  a 
descendant  of  William  Hooper  of  North 
Carolina,  a  signer  of  the  Declaration  of 
Independence. 


Arthur  L.  Thurston,   14  passed  away 
recently  in  Ormond  Beach,  Florida.  He  was 
82. 

He  was  born  in  Portland,  Maine.  In  1914  he 
received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  He  built  one  of 
the  first  wind  tunnels  in  the  U.S.  and  was 
responsible  for  many  advancements  in 
electronic  weighing.  From  1938  to  1959  he 
was  vice  president  of  Cox  and  Stevens 
Aircraft.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi. 

Harold  L.  Tilton,  '14  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  Wilmette,  Illinois  on  January  12, 
1976. 

A  native  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.  he  was  born 
there  on  Sept.  16,  1891.  He  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI  in  1914.  After  five  years  with 
the  Massachusetts  Highway  Department,  he 
joined  the  Vermont  Highway  Department.  He 
was  then  associated  with  Shell  Oil  Company. 
On  Dec.  31,  1954  he  retired  as  manager  of 
the  asphalt  sales  departments  in  Chicago, 
Detroit  and  Minneapolis  following  12  years  of 
service. 

Mr.  Tilton,  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Vermont  and  Illinois,  also  served 
as  an  engineer  for  the  Illinois  Division  of 
Highways.  He  was  a  member  of  American 
Road  Builders,  Asphalt  Paving  Technologists, 
Vermont  Society  of  Engineers,  Illinois  Society 
of  Highway  Engineers,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi 
and  Alpha  Tau  Omega.  In  1962  he  was 
presented  with  a  life  membership  in  the 
Illinois  section  of  ASCE. 

Herbert  H.  Wentworth,  '14  of  Los  Angeles, 
California,  died  on  January  14,  1975.  He  was 
82  years  old. 

A  native  of  Fryeburg,  Me.,  he  studied  at 
WPI  and  graduated  with  a  BSEE  in  1914. 
During  his  lifetime  he  was  associated  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  and  the  Navy 
Experimental  Station  in  New  London,  Conn. 
After  World  War  I,  he  again  joined 
Westinghouse  as  a  design  engineer.  Later  he 
became  a  district  transportation  engineer  for 
the  company.  He  retired  in  1957. 

A  member  of  Theta  Chi,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Skull,  and  Sigma  Xi,  Mr.  Wentworth  also 
belonged  to  AIEE  and  was  a  32nd  degree 
Mason. 


G.  Gerald  Desy,  '15,  a  retired  research 
chemist  from  North  Guilford,  Connecticut, 
died  on  January  24,  1976  at  the  age  of  83. 

He  was  born  in  Stanstead,  Quebec, 
Canada  on  April  24,  1892  and  graduated  as  a 
chemist  from  WPI  in  1915.  During  his  lifetime 
he  was  associated  with  Hooker  Chemical, 
ALCOA,  Koppers  Co.,  and  American 
Cyanamid  Co.,  Stamford,  Conn.,  where  he 
retired  in  1957  after  twenty  years  of  service. 
He  belonged  to  ACS  and  the  Association  of 
Retired  Persons. 

Harrison  W.  Hosmer,  '15  died  on  January 
16,  1976  in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts.  He  was 
84. 

He  was  born  in  Westfield,  Mass.  on  Sept. 
10,  1891.  In  1915  he  was  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  From  1921  to 
1956  he  was  with  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc. 
Cambridge,  Mass.  He  belonged  to  Alpha  Tau 
Omega. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  37 


E.  Munroe  Bates,  '17  retired  assistant  vice 
president  of  the  Provident  Loan  Society  of 
New  York,  died  on  November  6,  1975  in 
Winter  Park,  Florida. 

He  was  born  on  February  23,  1894  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  After  graduating  as  a  civil 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1917,  he  joined  the 
U.S.  Army  Infantry  where  he  was  promoted 
to  captain.  From  1919  until  1928  he  was  with 
the  Pennsylvania  Department  of  Highways. 
He  served  as  assistant  vice  president  of  the 
Provident  Loan  Society  of  New  York  from 
1928  to  1953. 

Mr.  Bates,  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
was  chairman  of  the  board  of  appeals  for  the 
Village  of  Great  Neck  Plaza,  N.Y.  for  many 
years.  He  contributed  background 
information  for  the  book,  God  Bless 
Pawnbrokers  by  Peter  Schwed  which  was 
recently  published  by  Dodd,  Mead.  His  name 
is  mentioned  in  the  foreword. 

Wentworth  P.  Doolittle,  '17,  who  had  been 
a  supervisor  in  the  wheel  division  at  Norton 
Co.  for  many  years,  died  in  Hyannis, 
Massachusetts  on  February  17,  1976. 

After  studying  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI,  he  joined  Norton  Co.  and  remained  with 
the  firm  until  his  retirement  in  1959.  He  was 
born  on  October  22,  1894  in  Princeton, 
Mass.,  and  was  a  World  War  I  veteran.  He 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Masons, 
and  was  a  former  vice  president  of  the 
Doolittles  of  America. 

Harold  B.  Ellis,  '17  formerly  of  Worcester, 
died  on  March  21,  1976  at  Berwyn,  Illinois. 

He  was  born  on  October  6,  1895  in 
Worcester,  later  studying  at  Mercersburg 
Academy  and  WPI.  In  1960  he  retired  after 
forty  years  of  service  with  the  New  England 
Power  Service  Company  where  he  was  a 
right-of-way  agent.  He  belonged  to  SAE,  was 
a  past  master  of  Athelstan  Lodge,  A.F.  & 
A.M.,  and   an  Army  veteran  of  World  War  I. 

John  A.  Carpenter  Warner,  '17  former 
executive  with  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers,  passed  away  on  December  21, 
1975  in  Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania.  He  was 
82. 

A  native  of  Putnam,  Conn.,  he  was  born 
on  July  12,  1893.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1917  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  Following 
graduation  he  joined  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards  testing  aircraft  structural  materials. 
He  was  to  become  a  physicist  and  executive 
officer  and  chief  of  the  Bureau's  Aeronautic 
Instruments  Section.  In  recognition  of  his 
special  talents,  he  was  appointed  scientific 
representative  of  the  U.S.  government  to 
several  European  countries  for  continued 
study  of  aeronautical  instruments. 

Later,  as  an  assistant  research  engineer 
with  Studebaker  Corporation,  he  made 
outstanding  contributions  in  design, 
management  and  marketing.  Because  of  his 
vast  experience,  he  was  named  secretary  and 
general  manager  of  the  Society  of 
Automotive  Engineers,  an  organization  which 
includes  members  with  the  most  inventive 
brains  in  the  country.  His  dynamic  30-year 
leadership  tripled  the  membership  of  the 
society. 


Mr.  Warner  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  Societe  des  Ingenieurs  de 
I'automobile,  Paris,  and  the  Society  of 
Automotive  Engineers  of  Japan.  He  was 
decorated  with  the  Japanese  Order  of  the 
Rising  Sun  in  1968  and  was  awarded  the 
Automotive  Old  Timers  Distinguished  Service 
Citation  in  1954.  In  1950  he  received  an 
honorary  doctor  of  engineering  degree  from 
WPI. 


Osborne  T.  Everett  '18  passed  away  on 
February  23,  1976.  He  was  a  resident  of 
Hampden,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  on  September  20,  1895  in 
Bolton,  Mass.  and  later  studied  civil 
engineering  at  WPI.  For  over  forty  years  he 
was  with  the  American  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  where  he  was  equipment 
supervisor.  He  belonged  to  the  American 
Legion,  IOOF,  and  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of 
America. 

Iver  G.  Schmidt,  '18  died  in  Akron,  Ohio 
last  November.  He  was  80  years  old. 

He  was  born  on  October  15,  1895  in 
Worcester.  After  graduating  as  a  civil 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1918,  he  started  out  as 
a  draftsman  for  the  city  of  Akron.  Forty-six 
years  later  he  retired  as  manager  of  the 
engineering  bureau,  the  city's  top  engineering 
post.  He  belonged  to  Skull,  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  and  the  National  (and  Ohio)  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers. 

Bruce  X.  Somers,  '18  passed  away  in  White 
River  Junction,  Vermont  on  March  14,  1976 
following  an  extended  illness. 

He  was  born  on  September  11,  1893  in 
West  Barnet,  Vermont.  Later  he  attended 
WPI  and  Middlebury  College.  During  World 
War  I  he  served  with  the  Navy  as  a 
commander  of  a  submarine  chaser.  Mr. 
Somers  designed  and  engineered  machine 
tools.  He  also  served  as  a  branch  examiner  in 
a  major  insurance  company  and  a  real  estate 
and  mortgage  supervisor  in  a  large  New  York 
bank.  He  retired  from  Sears,  Roebuck  and 
Co.,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.  in  1958. 

Ernest  W.  Whitlock,  '18  a  leading  water 
engineer,  died  on  January  29,  1976  in 
Hackensack,  New  Jersey.  He  was  80  years 
old. 

He  was  a  senior  partner  of  Malcolm  Pirnie, 
Inc.,  a  large  environmental  engineering 
concern  active  here  and  abroad.  As  an 
authority  on  water  supply,  water  treatment 
and  distribution,  he  established  a  national 
reputation.  He  helped  develop  water  supplies 
that  serve  15  percent  of  the  people  in  the 
U.S.  For  his  work  in  the  development  of 
concrete  pressure  pipe  standards,  he  received 
the  Diven  Medal  of  the  American  Water 
Works  Association. 

After  serving  in  World  War  I  and  attending 
WPI,  Mr.  Whitlock  worked  for  Fuller 
McClintock  designing  waste  treatment  plants. 
In  1939  he  joined  the  Pirnie  organization. 

He  was  an  honorary  member  of  the 
American  Water  Works  Association,  a  life 
fellow  of  ASCE,  and  of  the  American 
Consulting  Engineers  Council.  He  was  also  a 
diplomate  of  the  American  Academy  of 
Environmental  Engineers. 


W.  Orrell  Davis,  '20  of  Woonsocket,  R  I 
Island  died  on  May  23,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  November  12,  1896  ii 
Woonsocket  and  became  a  student  at  V ' 
During  World  War  I  he  served  in  the  U. 
Army.  He  had  been  employed  by  Blacks  I 
Valley  Gas  &  Electric  Co.  and  in  the  brios 
construction  section  of  the  State  Highw 
Department  in  Providence. 


George  P.  Condit  '21  of  Mesa,  Arizona  i 
on  January  14,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  June  24,  1899  in 
Waterbury,  Conn.  He  received  his  BSMf 
from  WPI  in  1921  and  was  a  member  of  I 
Sigma  Kappa  and  Tau  Beta  Pi.  From  19Ii 
until  1961  he  was  with  the  New  York 
Telephone  Company.  After  serving  in  Ntr 
York  and  Buffalo,  he  was  appointed  Alb^ 
district  manager  in  1941  and  commercial 
results  supervisor  in  1943.  Later  he  was 
promoted  to  general  sales  supervisor. 

Philip  K.  Davis,  '21  of  Carmel,  California 
passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  January  27,  1899  at  Si 
Lake  City,  Utah.  In  1921  he  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  se< 
in  a  number  of  capacities  at  the  Austin    i 
Company,  Cleveland,  Ohio,  where  he  retil 
as  vice  president  in  1964.  He  had  been  a 
district  superintendent,  assistant  to  the  vi> 
president,  and  project  manager  for  the 
company.  Between  1933  and  1935  he  wa 
staff  engineer  engaged  in  government  wci 

Mr.  Davis,  a  registered  engineer  in  50 
states,  belonged  to  ASCE,  ACI,  NSPE,  ar 
the  Cleveland  Engineering  Society.  He  wa 
also  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  and  Skull.  In 
1933  he  received  his  MS  from  the  Univer; 
of  California. 

Forest  M.  (Jeff)  Douglass,  '21  died  in 
Connecticut  on  January  9,  1976.  He  was 
Born  in  Norwood,  Mass.,  on  Dec.  11,1 
he  later  attended  WPI  and  graduated  fron 
Norwich  University  in  1922.  He  became 
associated  with  General  Electric,  New  Ha\ 
Conn.,  Farrel  Birmingham  Co.,  Ansonia;  a 
Armstrong  Rubber  Co.,  West  Haven,  Con 
For  several  years  prior  to  his  retirement,  h 
was  with  United  Aircraft.  He  belonged  to 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity. 

B.  Clark  Shaw,  '21  of  Dedham, 
Massachusetts,  died  of  cancer  on  March  ( 
1976. 

He  was  born  on  August  4,  1899  in  Fall 
River,  Mass.  Following  his  graduation  as  3 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI,  he  became  c 
apartment  house  owner  and  operator.  Lati 
he  was  associated  with  Granite  Clay, 
Bradford  Durfee  Textile  School,  Firestone 
Rubber,  Westinghouse,  and  Norwich 
University.  From  1941  until  his  retirement  i 
1965,  he  was  a  senior  degaussing  engineei 
Boston  Naval  Shipyard.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  fraternity  and  received  I 
MS  from  WPI  in  1934. 


38  WPI  Journal 


ler  r.  ousiimy.    t^.  ui    ouuui   ruuidiiu, 

ne  died  on  December  29,  1975  following  a 
rt  illness.  He  was  76. 

native  of  Long  Island,  Me.,  he  attended 
I  and  for  several  years  was  the  proprietor 
ne  Casco  Bay  House  on  Long  Island. 
>r  he  was  fire  chief  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Fuel 
e  on  Long  Island. 

World  War  I  army  veteran,  he  was  also  a 
nber  of  Ancient  Landmark  Lodge,  A.F. 

A.M.,  and  the  American  Legion. 

les  L.  Marston,  '22   died  on  February  7, 
5  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  76. 
e  was  a  native  of  North  Hampton,  N.H. 
>r  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer, 
vorked  for  Technical  Advisory  Corp.  in 
/  York.  Later  he  was  with  American  Steel 
/ire,  Worcester;  taught  high  school  in 
;terly,  R.I.;  and  was  employed  by  Norton 
From  1932  until  his  retirement  in  1960  he 
|ht  science  and  math  at  South  High 
ool  in  Worcester. 

r.  Marston,  who  was  active  in  the 
cester  Chapter  of  the  Appalachian  Mt. 
i  and  the  Green  Mountain  Club,  wrote  a 
mn  for  the  Evening  Gazette  called 
istly  Mountains"  in  1949.  He  was  a 
itmaster  and  with  the  Explorer  Scouts 
the  Marston  Trail  which  is  on  the  North 
her  peak  of  the  Katadin  Massif  in  Maine. 
>elonged  to  ASME,  Tech  Old  Timers,  and 
the  brother  of  Winthrop  Marston,  '26. 


srt  P.  Hayden,  '23  former  application 
neer  for  American  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  died 
^pril  18,  1976  at  his  home  in  East  Haven, 
necticut. 

ler  graduating  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
,  he  worked  many  years  for  American 
I  &  Wire.  At  the  New  Haven  and 
ton  plants  he  served  as  superintendent 
ire  rope  and  rope  products.  In  Cleveland 
ecame  assistant  staff  engineer  of 
ament  development  and  engineering,  and 
,  application  engineer. 
r.  Hayden,  a  member  of  Theta  Chi,  was 
on  Feb.  1,  1901  in  Worcester.  He 
iged  to  the  Masons  and  the  New  Haven 
ltryClub. 

ih  C.  Pierce,  '23  of  North  Palm  Beach, 
ia  died  on  October  4,  1975  at  the  age  of 

s  was  born  on  December  11,  1901  in 
am.  Conn.  In  1923  he  graduated  as  a 
lanical  engineer  from  WPI.  During  his 
sr  he  was  with  General  Electric,  Stone  & 
ster  and  New  England  Butt  Co.  When 
tired  in  1966  he  was  chief  draftsman  for 
&  Whitney  Aircraft  in  West  Palm 
h,  Fla.  He  belonged  to  A.F.  &  A.M.,  the 
lodist  Church,  and  North  Palm  Beach 
itry  Club. 


ton  L.  Denault,  '24  who  was  with 
linghouse  Electric  Corp.  for  over  40 
•>,  died  on  December  5,  1975  in  Ft. 
erdale,  Florida. 

native  of  Springfield,  Mass.,  he  was 
on  September  24,  1899.  After 
jating  as  an  electrical  engineer,  he 
d  Westinghouse  in  1924.  At  his 
ment  he  was  an  advisory  engineer  for 
:inghouse  in  Sharon,  Pa.  Mr.  Denault 
iged  to  AIEE,  NSPE,  and  Sigma  Xi. 


jdintsb  v,.  insn,   £o  reiirea  Vermont  printing 
Company  executive,  died  in  Mexico  City  on 
May  29,  1976. 

A  native  of  Northfield,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  July  31,  1903.  He  joined  Vermont  Printing 
Co.  as  assistant  to  the  president  following  his 
graduation  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer.  He  was  named  manager  in  1937 
and  president  in  1944.  In  1967  he  retired. 

He  belonged  to  SAE,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
National  Small  Business  Association  and  the 
Printing  Industry  of  America.  Active  in  civic 
affairs,  he  was  Republican  town 
committeeman,  and  served  as  a  trustee  for 
Brattleboro  (Vt.)  Free  Library;  Brattleboro 
Friends  of  Retarded  Children;  and  Brattleboro 
Home  for  Aged  and  Disabled.  He  was  a 
director  of  Brattleboro  Mutual  Aid 
Association,  Inc.,  American  Building,  Inc., 
and  Vermont  National  Bank,  as  well  as  past 
president  of  the  Lions  Club  and  Chamber  of 
Commerce. 

Henry  L.  Mellen,  '25,  of  St.  Petersburg, 
Florida,  retired  district  sales  manager  for 
Hercules  Inc.,  died  on  December  14,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  February  6,  1904  in 
Brookfield,  Mass.,  later  graduating  as  a 
chemist  from  WPI.  From  1939  until  his 
retirement  in  1969  he  was  associated  with 
Hercules  Powder  Co.,  Holyoke,  Mass.  He 
joined  the  company  as  a  technical  service 
engineer.  As  district  sales  manager,  he  was 
responsible  for  sales  promotion  and  technical 
services  to  paper  mills  in  the  New  England 
states  and  New  York. 

Mr.  Mellen  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon, 
the  Chemical  Club  of  New  England,  the 
University  of  Maine  Pulp  and  Paper 
Foundation,  and  the  Newcomen  Society  of 
America.  He  was  past  a  secretary  of  the  New 
England  section  of  TAPPI  and  had  served  as 
vice  president  of  the  Connecticut  Valley 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Otis  S.  Sawn,  '25  of  Englewood,  Florida 
passed  away  on  March  5,  1975. 

Born  in  Springfield,  Mass.  on  Sept.  16, 
1901,  he  later  became  a  student  at  WPI.  He 
graduated  with  a  BSME  in  1925.  He  had  been 
with  Schmitt  Metal  Works  and  John 
Hancock  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Newark, 
N.J. 

William  W.  Young,  '25  died  on  November 
15,  1975  in  Concord,  Massachusetts. 

A  native  of  Lawrence,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
there  on  May  4,  1903,  and  later  studied 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI.  For  38  years 
he  worked  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Division  (Niles,  Bement  &  Pond 
Co.),  in  West  Hartford,  Conn.  About  ten 
years  ago  he  started  his  own  firm,  the 
William  W.  Young  Co.,  manufacturer's 
representative,  in  Needham,  Mass. 

A  registerod  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts,  he  belonged  to  the  American 
Ordnance  Assoc,  American  Society  of  Tool 
&  Manufacturing  Engineers,  Carbide 
Engineers  Society,  and  the  Professional 
Engineers  Society.  He  was  a  member  of 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 


Leonard  C.  Calder,  '26  of  Catonsville, 
Maryland  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  April  9,  1902  in  South 
Somerset,  Mass.  and  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1926  with  a  BSEE.  For  many  years  he  was 
with  General  Electric  Co.  At  his  retirement  he 
was  manager  of  engineering  and  was  located 
in  Baltimore.  He  belonged  to  Alpha  Tau 
Omega  and  Skull. 

Carl  H.  Nordstrom,  '26  of  Bedford, 
Massachusetts,  retired  staff  director  of 
facilities  planning  and  control  at  AVCO  Corp., 
and  a  former  vice  president  at  RAD 
Associates,  passed  away  in  May. 

Born  in  Worcester  on    May  2,  1904,  he 
graduated  from  WPI  with  a  degree  in  general 
science.  Later  he  earned  his  MA  in 
mathematics  at  Lehigh  and  taught  at  Tabor 
Academy,  Michigan  State,  and  Dartmouth.  In 
1945  he  left  this  country  to  teach  science  at 
Biarritz  University  in  France. 

Mr.  Nordstrom  was  chief  of  the  scientific 
research  division  of  the  U.S.  military 
government  in  Berlin  until  1952,  when  he 
joined  the  Air  Development  Center  at  Rome, 
N.Y.  Later  he  became  associated  with  AVCO 
at  the  Wilmington  plant.  He  belonged  to 
Theta  Chi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Xi.  Also, 
he  served  as  permanent  chairman  of  the 
Massachsuetts  Business  Task  Force  for 
School  Management,  Inc. 


Chester  Haitsma,  '27  passed  away  on 
December  7,  1975  in  Fairlawn,  New  Jersey. 
He  was  69. 

He  was  born  in  Marlboro,  Mass.  on  May 
26,  1906  and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI  in 
1927.  For  41  years,  prior  to  his  retirement  in 
1974,  he  was  a  supervising  engineer  for 
Public  Service  Electric  and  Gas  Co.  in 
Paterson,  N.J.  Earlier  he  had  been  employed 
by  Consolidated  Edison  and  R.H.  Baker  Co. 
of  New  York,  as  well  as  Coppus  Engineering 
Co.,  Worcester. 

Mr.  Haitsma  had  been  a  member  of  the 
Executives'  and  Foremen's  Club  of  Paterson, 
N.J. 

Charles  F.  Monnier,  '27,  former  executive 
vice  president  of  the  Kansas  City  (Mo.) 
Power  &  Light  Co.,  died  on  March  4,  1976  in 
Syracuse,  New  York. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI,  he  joined  Niagara 
Mohawk  Power  Corp.,  where  he  was 
employed  until  1956.  His  last  position  with 
Mohawk  was  as  operating  vice  president.  In 
1956  he  joined  Kansas  City  Power  &  Light 
Co.  as  executive  vice  president.  Later  he  was 
with  Commonwealth  Associates,  San 
Francisco.  In  1971  he  retired. 

Mr.  Monnier  was  a  former  president  of  the 
Saddle  and  Sirloin  Club  and  director  of  the 
United  Fund  and  the  Greater  Kansas  City 
Council  on  Alcoholism.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  Sigma  Xi,  the  Engineers 
Club  of  Kansas  City,  and  the  Missouri 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers.  He  was 
born  on  March  4,  1906  in  Attleboro,  Mass. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1976  I  39 


Joseph  F.  Emonds,  '28,  died  at  his  home  in 
Manchester,  Connecticut  on  February  8,  1976 
after  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  September  16,  1904  in 
Harrington,  Conn.  In  1928  he  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI.  He  was  employed  with  the 
New  York  State  Dept.  of  Public  Works,  and 
later  with  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Indian  Affairs 
from  which  he  transferred  to  the  U.S.  Dept. 
of  Commerce  and  the  Bureau  of  Public 
Roads.  He  retired  in  1967. 


A.  Louis  P.  Jezyk,  '29  of  Glen  Allen, 
Virginia,  died  on  May  6,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  1,  1906  in  Ware, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI,  he  joined  New  England 
Electric  System,  where  he  was  employed  for 
over  40  years.  He  was  a  commercial  and 
industrial  sales  representative  for 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  in  Northampton. 
A  member  of  SAE,  he  also  belonged  to  the 
Illuminating  Engineering  Society. 


Harold  J.  Granger,  '31  died  at  his  home  in 
St.  Petersburg,  Florida  on  November  20,  1975 
at  the  age  of  65. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  December 
18,  1909  and  graduated  with  a  BSME  from 
WPI  in  1931.  A  retired  teacher,  he  had  taught 
in  Bellingham,  Mass.,  where  he  later  served 
as  assistant  principal  of  the  high  school.  For 
many  years  he  was  a  mathematics  teacher  in 
the  Pinellas  County  (Fla.)  school  system. 

His  brother,  Raymond  O.  Granger,  '35,  is 
president  and  general  manager  of  Granger 
Contracting  Co.,  Inc.,  which  is  currently 
renovating  Salisbury  Labs. 

Herbert  A.  Stewart,  '31,  a  retired  executive 
with  R.E.  Phelon  Co.,  East  Longmeadow 
Mass.,  died  on  January  15,  1976  in  Oak 
Bluffs  (Martha's  Vineyard),  Massachusetts. 
He  was  67. 

A  native  of  Los  Angeles,  Calif,  he  received 
his  BSME  from  WPI.  After  graduating  he 
spent  21  years  with  Savage  Arms  Corp. 
serving  as  executive  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  Westfield  and  Utica 
plants.  He  then  became  president  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  High  Standard 
Manufacturing  Corp.,  Hamden,  Conn.  Later 
he  managed  the  Richmond  (III.)  plant  of  R.E. 
Phelon  Co.  and  returned  to  the  company's 
East  Longmeadow  plant  where  he  served  as 
vice  president  until  his  retirement  in  1971. 

Mr.  Stewart  was  chairman  of  the  West 
Tisbury  (Mass.)  board  of  assessors,  vice 
president  of  the  Chicopee  Manufacturers 
Association  and  trustee  of  Chicopee  Falls 
Savings  Bank. 


Theodore  A.  Babbitt,  '32  died  on  July  6, 
1975. 

He  was  born  on  November  10,  1908  in 
Worcester.  After  studying  at  WPI  he  became 
associated  with  Highland  Engraving  Co., 
Worcester  and  PL.  Polk  &  Co.,  Publishers, 
Boston,  where  he  served  as  superintendent. 
He  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  and 
had  been  associated  with  Parker  Mfg.  Co., 
Worcester. 


A.  Elmer  Pihl,  '33  of  South  Yarmouth, 
Massachusetts  passed  away  on  April  5,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  March  12,  1911  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  After  receiving  his  BSEE 
he  joined  Leland-Gifford  Co.  in  Worcester 
where  he  worked  for  over  35  years.  He 
became  manager  of  electrical  engineering  at 
the  firm.  Later  he  was  associated  with 
Packaging  Industries,  Inc.,  in  Hyannis,  Mass. 
He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
and  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  and  the 
Masons. 


Edward  R.  Begley,  '34  died  on  April  17, 
1976  in  Natick,  Massachusetts.  He  was  63. 
He  was  born  in  Chicopee  Falls,  Mass.  on 
Jan.  15,  1913.  After  attending  WPI,  he 
worked  as  a  methods  engineer  for 
Westinghouse  Corporation's  Hyde  Park 
office.  For  the  past  25  years  he  was  located 
in  Natick. 

C.  Merritt  Lane,  '34  assistant  general 
counsel  of  the  Phoenix  Insurance  Co.,  West 
Hartford,  Connecticut,  died  on  February  6, 
1976. 

Born  in  Springfield,  Mass.  on  April  1,  1912, 
he  later  studied  at  WPI  and  graduated  from 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of  Law. 
In  World  War  II  he  served  as  a  commander  in 
the  U.S.  Navy.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma 
Delta. 


Alan  J.  Byll,  '35  of  Granada  Hills,  California, 
died  on  January  31,  1976. 

A  native  of  Toronto,  Ontario,  Canada,  he 
was  born  on  April  11,  1913.  He  graduated 
with  a  BSME  from  WPI  and  became  a 
dynamicist  for  Fairbanks  Morse.  He  was  then 
with  Atlas  Imperial  Diesel  Co.,  Joshua  Hendy 
Iron  Works,  Westinghouse,  and  Hiller  Aircraft 
Corp.  He  was  retired  as  a  senior  research  and 
development  engineer  at  Lockheed  in 
Burbank,  Calif. 


Harold  S.  Burr,  '36  of  Camillus,  New  York, 
died  on  January  6,  1976.  He  was  61  years 
old. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  July 
3,  1914.  He  graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI 
in  1936.  After  working  at  Seamless  Rubber 
Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.,  for  a  year,  he 
worked  for  Sherwin  Williams,  Inc.  of  Newark, 
N.J.  until  1943.  Then  he  founded  and  became 
president  of  Strathmore  Products,  Inc., 
Syracuse. 

Mr.  Burr  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  the  American  Horse  Show 
Association,  the  Professional  Horsemen's 
Association,  and  Everson  Museum.  He  was 
past  president  of  the  Limestone  Creek  Hunt 
Club,  and  a  member  of  the  Green  Mountain 
Club  and  Kiwanis.  Also,  he  was  a  deacon  of 
the  United  Presbyterian  Church,  a  past  vice 
president  of  the  Northern  New  Jersey 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  and  a 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 


Robert  O.  Alexander,  '38  died  on  February 
8,  1976  in  Greenville,  Rhode  Island.  He  was 
61. 

For  the  past  five  years  he  was  a  plant 
manager  for  Union  Wadding  Co.  in 
Pawtucket,  R.I.  Earlier  he  had  been  with 


Kimball  Co.  in  Walpole,  Mass.;  Elastic 
Threads,  Inc.,  Rumford  R.I.;  Latex  Proc  s 
Corp.,  Manchester,  N.H.;  Thiokol  Cherr  a 
Corp.,  Trenton,  N.J.  and  U.S.  Rubber  ( ., 
Providence. 

He  was  born  on  January  18,  1915  in 
Leominster,  Mass.  In  1938  he  graduatecis 
chemist  from  WPI. 

Perry  F.  Grenon,  '38  of  Natick, 
Massachusetts  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  on  November  2,  1914  in 
Worcester.  A  member  of  the  class  of  19 
he  studied  electrical  engineering  at  WPH 
had  been  employed  by  Baxter  D.  Whitn1 
Son,  Winchendon,  Mass.  and  Reece  Co . 
Waltham. 

J.  Adams  Holbrook,  '38  chief  mechans 
engineer  in  the  wiredrawing  machinery 
department  of  Morgan  Construction  Co. 
Worcester,  died  on  February  6,  1976  at  13 
age  of  59. 

A  Boston  native,  he  graduated  with  a 
BSME  from  WPI.  He  was  an  instructor  i 
WPI,  where  he  received  his  master's  deci 
and  also  taught  at  Worcester  Junior  Col: 
In  1946  he  joined  Morgan,  becoming  chi 
mechanical  engineer  in  1969. 

Mr.  Holbrook,  a  past  president  of  the 
Worcester  chapter  of  the  Appalachian  M 
Club,  was  also  on  the  state  Science  Fair 
board  at  MIT.  He  belonged  to  the  Worce 
Engineering  Society,  and  ASME  where  h 
was  past  president  of  the  Worcester  seer 
He  belonged  to  the  Wire  Association, 
Worcester  Mechanics  Association,  Sigm; 
and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  For  nine  years  hi 
was  director  of  the  Worcester  County 
Kiwanis  Fair.  A  registered  professional 
engineer,  he  held  patents  on  power 
transmission  for  helicopter  rotors,  a 
wiredrawing  machine,  and  an  infrared 
micrometer  mounting. 


John  P.  Molony,  '39  retired  instrument 
ultrasonic  engineer  for  Wyman-Gordon  C 
Worcester,  died  January  23,  1976  in 
Woonsocket,  Rhode  Island.  He  was  57. 

He  was  a  native  of  Millville,  Mass.  and 
electrical  engineer  with  the  eastern  divisic 
Wyman-Gordon  for  35  years.  In  1972  he 
received  a  fellowship  from  the  American 
Society  for  Testing  Materials.  A  registerei 
professional  engineer,  he  specialized  in 
ultrasonic  testing  of  metals. 

Mr.  Molony  belonged  to  the  Society  fo 
Non-Destructive  Testing  Materials  and  th 
American  Society  for  Quality  Control.  He 
a  corporator  of  Uxbridge  Savings  Bank,  a 
past  director  of  the  Central  Mass.  Police 
Association,  and  the  Massachusetts  and 
Worcester  County  Selectmen's  Associatic 
He  served  as  chairman  of  the  Blackstone- 
Millville  Regional  School  Committee  and  \ 
a  former  selectman  and  police  chief  in 
Millville.  He  was  an  accomplished  pianist 
a  member  of  the  Knights  of  Columbus. 


Sidney  E.  Scott,  '40  died  on  October  31, 
1975  in  Wareham,  Massachusetts. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on 
August  13,  1917.  An  electrical  engineer,  h 
was  associated  with  Norton  Co,  Worceste 
Allis  Chalmers  Mfg.  Co.,  New  York  City;  l 
Southwestern  Petroleum  Co.  where  he  wi 


40  WPf  Journal 


>s.  Later  he  joined  beneticiai  btanaara 

lsurance  Co.  as  a  self-employed 

nee  agent. 

was  also  employed  by  New  Bedford 

i-  Edison  Light  Co.,  Cranberry  Highway 

r,  and  Trans-American  Collections,  Inc., 

i  he  was  district  manager,  and 

olux.  He  belonged  to  AIEE,  Lambda  Chi 

,  and  was  a  captain  in  the  Air  Force 

j  World  War  II. 

ird  H.  Stowe,  '40  owner  of  Stowe 
sering  Co.,  died  on  March  31,  1976  in 
jfield,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  57. 
n  in  Millbury,  Mass.,  he  graduated  as  a 
ngineer  from  WPI,  and  served  in  the 
during  World  War  II.  He  was  a 
lant  in  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  with  the 
After  traveling  across  the  country  as  a 
ngineer  for  several  highway  projects,  he 
d  his  own  business  in  1956. 
Stowe  was  a  member  of  the 
;cticut  Valley  Association  of  Civil 
sers  and  Land  Surveyors  and  was  a 
r  treasurer  of  the  Connecticut  Valley 
er  of  the  Alumni  Association. 


n  J.  West,  '41  of  Bethel  Park, 
ylvania  died  on  December  18,  1975. 
was  born  on  January  24,  1918  in 
3ster  and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI 
1.  Except  for  three  years  in  the  U.S. 
during  World  War  II,  he  was  employed 
of  his  life  by  Bell  Telephone,  Pittsburgh, 
jring  his  career  with  Bell  he  served  as  a 
field  engineer,  plant  supervisor,  and 
listrative  assistant.  Later  he  became  a 
■nployed  income  tax  consultant. 

West  belonged  to  the  Institute  of 
ition  Management,  the  National 
:iation  of  Real  Estate  Boards,  the 
ts  of  Columbus,  and  ASME.  He  was 

real  estate  broker  in  Pennsylvania  and 
:  president  of  the  Pittsburgh  Chapter  of 
lumni  Association.  He  was  the  father  of 
i  J.  West,  Jr.  of  the  Class  of  1965. 


J.  Tyner,  '42  a  general  manager  for 
Corning  Corp.,  Alhambra,  California, 
tly  passed  away, 
was  born  on  March  23,  1920  in  Fall 

Mass.  In  1942  he  received  his  BSCh.E 
WPI  and  in  1946  he  became  associated 
Dow  Corning  as  a  salesman.  Later  he 
lamed  a  regional  sales  manager, 
iting  manager  for  Aerospace  Materials, 
ger  of  marketing  for  the  overseas 
tions  of  Dow  Corning  International  Ltd., 
lanager  of  International  Marketing.  He 

member  of  ATO. 


rt  J.  Scarpa,  '43,  founder  and  president 
;stern  Massachusetts  Contracting 
eers,  Inc.,  passed  away  on  March  21, 
at  his  home  in  Lee,  Massachusetts.  He 
>5  years  old. 

was  born  in  Lancaster,  Mass., 
lated  from  WPI  with  a  BSCE,  and 
ted  MIT  and  Northeastern.  With  the 
in  World  War  II,  he  worked  in  Alaska 
t  the  Tennessee  Atomic  Plant  in  Oak 
!.  In  1955  he  founded  Western 
achusetts  Contracting  Engineers,  Inc. 
erry  he  owned  Mandalay  Resort  in  Lee. 


James  J.  Clerkin,  Jr.,  45,  a  WPI  trustee 
and  former  executive  vice  president  of 
planning  for  General  Telephone  &  Electronics 
Corporation,  died  November  20,  1975  in 
Stamford,  Connecticut.  He  was  52. 

Prior  to  becoming  executive  vice  president 
at  GTE  in  1974,  Mr.  Clerkin  had  served  since 
1964  as  executive  vice  president  of  the 
telephone  operating  group,  with  responsibility 
for  the  company's  domestic  and  international 
telephone  operations.  Earlier  he  had  been 
president  of  GTE  International  Incorporated, 
having  rejoined  the  GTE  organization  in  that 
position  in  1961. 

During  his  career  he  had  also  served  as 
executive  vice  president  and  a  director  of 
Comptometer  Corporation  and  held  posts 
with  Theodore  Gary  and  Company  and 
Continental  Telephone  which  subsequently 
merged  with  General  Telephone  Corporation. 
A  native  of  New  Britain,  Conn.,  he  became 
assistant  to  the  president  of  Automatic 
Electric  (now,  also  with  GTE)  after  graduation 
from  Harvard  Business  School. 

Mr.  Clerkin,  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta 
was  a  former  director  of  the  United  States 
Independent  Telephone  Association, 
GENESCO,  Inc.,  and  Allied  Products 
Corporation.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
President's  Advisory  Council  at  WPI  and  had 
been  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Chicago 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association.  In  1945  he 
graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  from 
WPI.  He  received  the  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award  from  the  Alumni  Association  in  1968. 


John  P.  McCoy,  '46  of  Doylestown, 
Pennsylvania,  passed  away  on  January  4, 
1976. 

He  was  born  on  November  27,  1923  in 
Philadelphia,  and  later  studied  at  WPI.  For 
many  years  he  had  been  employed  by  Baker, 
Weeks  &■  Harder,  and  then  at  Hopper, 
Soliday,  Brooke,  Sheridan,  Inc.  in 
Philadelphia. 


Dr.  Frederick.  W.  Grant,  '50,  associate 
research  biochemist  at  Marcy  (N.Y.) 
Psychiatric  Center,  died  on  November  9,  1975 
in  Clinton,  New  York. 

He  was  born  on  June  26,  1926  in 
Milwaukee,  Wis.  and  graduated  from  WPI  as 
a  chemist  in  1950,  later  receiving  his  PhD 
from  Yale.  He  had  been  employed  by  Johns 
Hopkins  University,  DuPont,  and  Olin 
Mathieson  Chemcial.  From  1959  until  1963  he 
was  a  professor  of  organic  chemistry  at 
Hamilton  College.  Since  1963  he  had  been 
with  the  Marcy  Psychiatric  Center. 

Dr.  Grant  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  the 
Eastern  Psychiatric  Research  Association, 
Society  of  Biological  Psychiatry,  ACS, 
Chemical  Society  of  London,  New  York 
Academy  of  Sciences,  American  Association 
for  the  Advancement  of  Science,  Sigma  Xi, 
and  the  American  Society  for  Photobiology. 


H.  Norris  Harris,  Jr.,  '57  died  in  New 
London,  Connecticut  on  March  9,  1976  after 
a  short  illness.  He  was  40. 

Recently  he  retired  after  eight  years  as  an 
electrical  engineer  at  the  Naval  Underwater 
Sound  Laboratory  in  New  London.  Previously 
he  was  with  Rome  (N.Y.)  Air  Development 
Center. 


Mr.  Harris  was  born  on  May  14,  1935  in 
New  York  City.  In  1957  he  received  his  BSEE 
from  WPI.  He  belonged  to  AIEE,  IRE,  and  the 
National  Association  of  Retired  Federal 
Employes.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Eastern  Connecticut  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 


Dr.  Richard  St.  Onge,  '63  of  South 
Barnstead,  New  Hampshire,  assistant  physics 
professor  at  UNH,  died  on  December  27, 
1975  following  an  automobile  accident. 
He  was  born  on  February  15,  1936  in 
Worcester.  After  receiving  his  BS  in  physics 
from  WPI  in  1963,  he  entered  UNH  where  he 
earned  his  master's  degree  and  his  doctorate. 
A  nuclear  physicist,  he  has  a  patent  pending 
relative  to  his  invention  of  a  position  sensitive 
X-ray  detector.  He  was  also  employed  by  the 
National  Institute  of  Health  in  Washington 
where  he  was  working  on  an  instrumental 
detection  and  cancer  device.  Dr.  St.  Onge 
was  a  veteran  of  the  Marine  Corps. 


Walter  F.  Roach,  '64  was  killed  in  an 
automobile  accident  in  Manchester,  New 
Hampshire  on  November  20,  1975.  He  was  32 
years  old. 

A  native  of  Winchester,  Mass.,  he 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1964  as  a  mechanical 
engineer.  For  the  past  1 1  years  he  had  been 
with  Sylvania,  Inc.  in  Manchester.  He  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 


Frederick  J.  Dunn,  '65  SIM  died  at  his 
home  in  Paxton,  Massachusetts  on  January 
13,  1976.  He  was  45  years  old. 

For  the  past  three  years  he  had  been  a 
computer  consultant  at  Geo.  A.  Smith  Co. 
Previously  he  was  administrative  data 
processing  and  systems  manager  at  WPI.  He 
was  a  former  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Data  Processing  Management 
Association,  Worcester  chapter. 

He  graduated  from  the  New  England 
School  of  Accounting  and  the  School  of 
Industrial  Management  at  WPI. 

Capt.  John  G.  Zwyner,  '65  (U.S.A.F.)  of 
Danbury,  Connecticut  died  recently. 

He  was  born  on  June  22,  1943  in  Danbury 
and  graduated  with  his  BSEE  from  WPI  in 
1965.  During  his  career  in  the  Air  Force  he 
had  trained  as  a  weather  officer  at  Penn 
State  where  he  received  his  BS,  and  had 
seen  duty  at  Stewart  AFB,  Newburgh,  N.Y.; 
Wright-Patterson  AFB,  Dayton,  Ohio;  and 
Hankway  AFB,  Bedford,  Mass. 


George  A.  Desnoyers,  '66  died  at  his  home 
in  White  River  Junction,  Vermont  on 
February  17,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  May  21,  1943  in  Hanover, 
N.H.  He  graduated  from  Bridgton  (ME) 
Academy  and  then  studied  at  WPI.  He  was  a 
member  of  St.  Anthony's  Church. 


Exceptional  selectivity,  with  volume 
oi  clear  reception  and  wide  range  of 
operation,  has  made  them  an  acknowl- 
edged standard  oi  excellence  through- 
out the  entire  country. 

You  will  find  the  fidelity  with  which 
the  At  water  Kent  Loud  Speaker  re- 
produces tones  delightfully  pleasing. 

Send  for  descriptive  literature. 


. 


Atwater  Kent  Manufacturing  Company 

4963  STENTON  AVENUE  PHILADELPHIA,  PA. 


m 


illps 


m^i 


mr  ester 


iftYRCiitss -Ksrirp 


i 


I 


I 


iilif 


►       »~r».  - 


fTi 


i 


if 


II 

ij 

rrr 


rrr 


% 


by  the  editor 

aching/learning 

an  effort  to  focus  more  on  the 
>cess  of  education,  WPI  has 
iblished  a  new  facility,  the  Center  for 
jcational  Research  and  Development 
ERD).  Dr.  Karen  C.  Cohen,  who  has 
n  conducting  a  long-term  study  of 

effects  of  the  WPI  Plan  on  students, 
is  the  faculty  as  an  associate  pro- 
>or  and  the  Center's  director.  For- 
rly  with  the  Education  Development 
iter,  Dr.  Cohen  also  holds  a  current 
(ointment  at  M.I.T. 
n  many  ways,  CERD  is  a  direct  re- 
:  of  putting  the  WPI  Plan  into  effect. 
:ause  of  the  innovations  and  drastic 
nges  engendered  by  the  Plan,  faculty 
iVPI  have  developed  a  significant 
cern  for  improving,  on  a  continuing 
is,  the  teaching  and  learning  process 
ATI. 

he  Center  has  three  main  areas  of 
vity.  First  is  the  Laboratory  for 
les  and  Innovations  in  Education, 
ch  provides  a  forum  for  discussion 

a  channel  for  experimentation  with 
educational  process.  This  is  a  direct 
growth  of  a  program  last  year,  the 
ching-Learning  Workshops,  where  a 
tinuing  group  of  faculty  and  stu- 
ts  met  once  a  term  for  day-long 
grams  with  an  outside  speaker  and 
ussion  leader. 

he  second  area  of  CERD  activity  is 
continuation  of  the  NSF-sponsored 
luation  of  the  effects  of  the  Plan. 
s  study  provides  an  on-going  basis 
comparison  and  yields  much  help- 
information  to  aid  policy  decisions 
irding  future  directions  for  the  col- 
he  third  area  the  Center  works  in  in- 
'es  a  significant  degree  of  com- 
lity  outreach.  CERD  conducts  re- 
ch  and  projects  for  off-campus 
anizations  and  agencies,  bringing  its 
Jrtise,  the  tools  and  methods  of 
cational  research  and  evaluation,  to 
numerous  problems  facing  social 

educational  organizations  today. 


me  seiner  operates  out  ot  a  corner 
of  the  IQP  Center,  Washburn  300.  It  is 
being  funded,  in  part,  by  money  from 
the  Ford  Foundation's  Venture  Grant  to 
WPI. 

In  discussing  the  Center  recently, 
President  Hazzard  said,  "The  exciting 
part  to  me  is  that  this  institutionalizes 
our  concern  for  teaching  process  and 
will,  hopefully,  extend  our  present  burst 
of  educational  innovation  over  the  long 
haul." 

Faculty  award  nominations 
sought 

WPI  alumni,  students,  and  faculty  are 
invited  to  nominate  faculty  members  to 
receive  the  1976-77  Board  of  Trustees' 
Award  for  Outstanding  Teaching.  This 
award  is  made  annually  to  a  faculty 
member  who  has  done  a  truly  fine  job 
as  a  teacher.  Selection  is  made  by  a 
committee  of  students  and  faculty.  You 
are  encouraged  to  submit  your  nomina- 
tion, together  with  supporting  reasons, 
to  Professor  Ed  Ma  at  WPI.  Deadline 
for  nominations  is  December  10. 

The  arm  and  hammer  saga, 
continued. 

(Reprinted  from  the  student  newspaper, 
Newspeak) 

It  was  a  year  ago  that  the  Washburn 
Shops  weathervane  disappeared.  The 
familiar  arm  and  hammer  known  to 
every  student  since  the  first  class  entered 
in  1868  no  longer  swings  easily  to  the 
changing  breeze. 

The  loss  was  keenly  felt  by  all,  for  the 
arm  and  hammer  was  a  symbol. 
Perhaps  taken  for  granted  because  it 
had  always  been  there,  its  loss  suddenly 
became  a  personal  tragedy  for  WPI 
people  eveywhere. 

What  happened  to  it?  Is  it  gone 
forever?  Will  it  be  replaced?  Newspeak 
interviewed  President  Hazzard  on  the 
first  anniversary  of  the  loss. 
Newspeak:  Do  you  have  any  idea  what 
happened  to  the  weathervane? 
President:  From  piecing  together  all  the 
evidence  at  the  time,  we  believe  that  the 
person  responsible  climbed  through  an 
upper  floor  window  in  Washburn  to  the 
roof.  Then  he  swung  a  rope  weighted 
with  a  flashlight  up  to  the  weathervane. 
With  the  rope  thus  snagged,  he  pulled 
until  the  rod  on  which  the  vane  turned 
bent  downward.  The  vane  then  slipped 
off  onto  the  roof.  It  was  then  probably 
lowered  to  the  ground  and  he  retraced 
his  steps  through  the  building  and  then 
carried  the  vane  off. 


Newspeak:  Do  you  have  any  idea  who 
was  responsible? 

President:  No.  We  believe  it  was  a  stu- 
dent. The  plastic  flashlight  found  on  the 
roof  after  the  theft  was  marked  with  the 
name  of  a  student  who  had  graduated 
the  year  before  and  was  employed  far 
from  Worcester.  He  was  not  a  suspect 
but  members  of  his  fraternity  reported 
that  the  light  had  been  left  behind  when 
he  graduated.  The  investigation 
naturally  concentrated  on  those  who 
would  normally  have  had  access  to  this 
only  piece  of  evidence.  However,  all 
leads  proved  fruitless. 
Newspeak:  Why  do  you  think  it  was 
taken? 

President:  I  think  it  began  as  a  prank, 
an  ill-conceived  one  but  still  a  prank. 
When  the  thief  saw  what  an  uproar  his 
act  had  caused,  he  must  have  realized 
that  he  had  a  "hot  potato"  on  his 
hands.  No  one  applauded  his  act.  No 
one  thought  it  was  funny.  There  was 
just  downright  indignation  all  over 
campus. 

Newspeak:  Could  he  have  taken  it  for 
profit? 

President:  The  arm  and  hammer  was 
too  well  known  to  have  been  sold.  There 
was  no  real  value  in  the  material  of 
which  it  was  made.  Its  real  value  was 
sentimental. 

Newspeak:  Just  what  was  it  made  of? 
President:  No  one  is  sure.  It  has  been 
on  the  Washburn  Tower  longer  than 
anyone  on  campus  can  remember.  We 
assume  it  was  made  of  hammered  cop- 
per, then  gilded.  It  was  probably 
regilded  in  1938  after  the  great 
hurricane  of  that  year  damaged  the 
Washburn  Tower.  Even  though  this 
event  was  relatively  recent,  no  one 
seems  to  remember  who  might  have 
worked  on  it  then.  However,  in  talking 
with  people  knowledgeable  about  cen- 
tury-old weathervanes,  we  have  a  good 
idea  of  its  construction. 
Newspeak:  Do  you  have  any  idea  that 
it's  still  in  one  piece  with  a  possibility  of 
ever  being  returned? 
President:  About  two  months  after  the 
theft,  we  received  an  anonymous  note 
offering  to  return  the  arm  and  hammer 
in  exchange  for  a  sum  of  money.  En- 
closed with  the  note  was  a  color  print  of 
the  weathervane  lying  in  the  woods.  It 
appeared  to  be  in  reasonably  good  con- 
dition although  some  dents  from  the  fall 
were  evident.  Certainly  it  could  be  re- 
stored without  difficulty.  The  in- 
structions specified  a  time  and  place  to 
leave  the  money.  The  postmark  on  the 
letter  was  imprinted  on  the  afternoon  of 
the  day  we  were  instructed  to  leave  the 
money,  a  Friday.  The  letter  was  received 
the  following  Monday,  so  there  was  no 
way  we  could  comply. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  3 


Newspeak:  Would  you  have  paid  the 
ransom? 

President:  I  don't  really  know.  The  sum 
requested  was  far  less  than  the  cost  of 
replacement.  It  probably  would  have 
been  the  practical  thing  to  do,  even 
though  it  would  have  been  very  distaste- 
ful. However,  we  never  had  to  make 
that  decision. 

Newspeak:  Why  do  you  think  the  thief 
waited  so  long  to  ask  for  ransom? 
President:  I  think  he  really  wanted  to 
see  it  back  on  the  tower  again  but  after 
the  furor,  he  realized  that  getting  it 
back  could  be  dangerous.  Therefore  he 
tried  to  make  it  look  like  a  "kid- 
napping," with  ransom  the  motive.  I 
suspect  he  put  a  price  on  the  return  to 
compensate  for  the  risk  involved  in  re- 
turning it. 

Newspeak:  Did  the  note  and  the 
photograph  yield  any  clues  as  to  the 
thief? 

President:  Not  really.  The  photograph 
showed  the  arm  and  hammer  lying  in 
woods,  apparently  in  an  oak  grove 
judging  by  the  leaves  in  the  picture. 
Post  Office  officials  informed  us  that 
the  markings  on  the  envelope  indicated 
only  that  the  letter  had  been  mailed 
from  one  of  the  surrounding  towns  but 
cancelled  in  the  main  post  office  in 
Worcester,  so  there  was  no  way  of 
knowing  from  which  town  it  was 
mailed.  The  note  was  hand  lettered  with 
a  felt  pen  on  ordinary  paper  with 
nothing  to  give  us  any  clues.  The  words 
and  the  lettering  suggested  that  the 
writer  was  a  student  who  was  familiar 
with  hand  lettering.  This  seemed  to  con- 
firm our  earlier  feeling  that  the  thief 
was  a  WPI  student. 

Newspeak:  Since  there  has  been  no  con- 
tact for  the  past  ten  months,  has  WPI 
made  any  plans  to  replace  the  arm  and 
hammer? 

President:  Through  Old  Sturbridge 
Village  we  obtained  the  name  of  a  crafts- 
man who  could  make  a  replica  of  it. 
He  would  have  to  work  from  photo- 
graphs. The  cost  would  be  approximate- 
ly $1500.  About  half  the  expense  would 
be  for  hand  carving  wooden  molds  into 
which  he'd  have  to  hammer  copper 
sheets  to  form  the  two  halves  which 
would  later  be  joined  together.  The 
replica  would  no  doubt  be  a  fine  piece 
of  work,  but  it  would  never  be  the  same 
as  the  original.  Frankly,  WPI  just  can't 
at  lord  to  use  operating  funds  to  replace 
are  reluctant  to  even  suggest  that 
anyone  replace  it  as  a  gift  to  the  college, 
since  there  are  so  many  things  far  more 

ntly  needed  to  meet  our  education 
needs.  ( lifts  which  are  made  to  college 
should  really  be  applied  to  other  needs. 


Newspeak:  Will  Washburn  be  left 
without  a  weathervane  then? 
President:  Temporarily.  We  still  hope 
that  the  original  vane  will  come  back  to 
the  campus.  Once  the  student  respon- 
sible has  graduated,  we  think  he'll  let  us 
know  where  it  can  be  found.  If  it 
becomes  clear  that  it's  gone  forever, 
we'll  review  the  situation  and  see  what 
we  do  then. 

Newspeak:  If  you  could  talk  to  the  per- 
son who  took  the  arm  and  hammer, 
what  would  you  say? 
President:  If  I  could  talk  directly  with 
this  person,  I'd  say,  "whoever  you  are 
and  wherever  you  are,  I  urge  you  to 
let  us  know  where  the  arm  and  ham- 
mer weather  vane  can  be  found.  Be- 
cause we  believe  it  was  taken  initially 
as  a  prank,  we  will  not  make  an  effort 
to  learn  your  identity  if  you  respond  in 
good  faith  to  this  request.  Frankly,  I 
would  prefer  never  to  learn  your 
name."  I  think  I  would  tell  him  fur- 
ther that  while  taking  the  weathervane 
is  considered  to  be  an  ill  conceived 
prank,  attempting  to  extort  money  for 
its  return  becomes  a  premeditated 
felony,  perhaps  even  a  federal  offense. 
We  can  overlook  the  one  attempt  at 
this  since  from  the  timing  of  the  mail- 
ing, we  can  charitably  conclude  that 
the  thief  didn't  really  expect  us  to 
comply  but  rather  was  trying  to  let  us 
know  the  weathervane  was  safe.  By  re- 
turning the  arm  and  hammer  with  no 
conditions  attached,  he'll  find  his  con- 
science to  be  a  more  agreeable  con- 
stant companion. 


Please  feel  free  to  write  the  Journal  to  \ 
press  your  opinions  and  views  on  WPI  a 
alumni  matters.  Those  letters  which  are  , 
lished  may  be  edited  for  length  or  to  cor 
trate  on  a  specific  topic.  The  Journal  pi 
lishes  nearly  all  letters  received. 


Atwater  Kent  radios 

Editor:  I  read  with  interest  your  Auj 
1976  Journal  article  "WPI's  Forgott 
Millionaire"  by  John  P.  Wolkonowi 
and  I  would  like  to  describe  my  own 
developing  interest  in  and  awareness 
Atwater  Kent,  beginning  in  the  late 
1920's,  when  to  me  the  name  was  nc 
more  than  a  trade  name  for  one  of  t 
many  battery-operated  broadcast 
receivers  battling  for  a  share  of  the 
recently  created  but  rapidly  expandir 
radio  receiver  market. 

I  was  raised  in  Worcester,  and  a  fi 
of  my  boyhood  friends  and  I  develo] 
an  early  interest  in  radio  starting  in  l 
last  three  years  of  grade  school,  first 
constructors  of  standard  broadcast 
receivers,  later  short  wave  receivers, 
subsequently  some  of  us  obtained 
amateur  licenses. 

With  the  introduction  of  complete 
ac-operated  receivers  in  the  early  193 
battery-operated  receivers  were  being 
rapidly  discarded,  and  many  of  them 
ended  up  in  the  Salvation  Army  outl 
store  located  off  of  Summer  Street,  i 
the  vicinity  of  the  old  Worcester  Coi 
Jail,  and  near  Lincoln  Square.  These 
battery  sets  were  the  best  and  chcape 
source  of  radio  parts  for  our 
construction  projects,  and  in  those  i 
they  normally  sold  for  from  50  cents 
$1.50.  Atwater  Kent  sets  were 
considered  preferred  items,  particulai 
the  model  (or  models?)  having  \  emit, 
dials  with  silver-white  metal  escutehe 
plates  framing  the  tuning  scale,  simil 
to  the  model  55  depicted  in  the  Jouri 
article. 

Probably  to  the  distress  of  the  pre? 
day  collectors,  we  "gutted"  these  sot 
and  utilized  as  many  as  necessary  o( 
quote  the  Journal  description)  "the 
blushed  aluminum  shielding  cans, 


4  WPI  Journal 


ched  steel  cnassis — etc.     to  Duiid 

jle  short  wave  receivers,  usually 

sisting  of  a  regenerative  detector, 

audio  stage  (for  headphone 

ption),  plug-in  coils  for  the  amateur 

ds,  and  occasionally  we  summoned 

jgh  ambition  to  add  a  stage  of 

er  tuned  or  untuned  radio  frequency 

ilification.  What  our  receivers  lacked 

erformance  was  compensated  for  by 

:osmetic  effect  of  those  beautiful 

>  and  panels,  which  tended  to 

iteract  the  generally  messy 

;arance  of  the  low-budget  ham 

ons  of  the  depression-plagued 

)'s. 

rangely,  although  we  were 

■cester  natives  we  were  unaware  that 

Kent  had  been  a  resident  of  the 

and  if  we  were  at  all  curious 
:erning  the  origin  of  the  name  of  his 
pment,  we  probably  assumed  that 
firm  was  a  partnership  consisting  of 
persons  named  Atwater  and  Kent. 
:r  we  learned  that  it  was  the  name  of 
lgle  person,  mainly  due  to  the 
spaper  exposure  given  to  his  lavish 
ies,  but  we  still  were  unaware  of  his 
cester  origins. 

le  next  situation  I  encountered  that 
e  me  think  of  Kent  occurred  some 
s  later  during  my  first  half  of  my 
or  year  at  Tech,  when  all  EE's  took 
quired  course  in  electronics.  I  might 
that  at  that  time,  since  the 
irtment  head  and  a  majority  of  the 
faculty  were  power-oriented, 
ronics  was  the  poor  stepchild  of  the 
irtment,  even  superseded  in 
ortance  by  courses  in  electrical 
nination.  The  prevailing  philosophy 
led  to  be  that  if  one  were  so 
guided  as  to  elect  to  major  in 
ironies;  he  could  have  no  better 
cground  than  a  thorough  grounding 
rinciples  of  rotating  electrical 
hinery  and  solution  of  circuits  and 
/orks  containing  steady-state  60 
e  currents  (60  hertz  for  the  benefit 
tie  new  engineering  generation.), 
rofessor  Newell  conducted  both  the 
sroom  work  and  lab  sessions  almost 
le-handed,  and  in  retrospect  I 
iider  it  amazing  how  much  insight 

the  principles  of  the  electronic  art 
hat  era  he  could  infuse  in  us  simply 
laving  us  plot  the  characteristics  and 
lict  the  operating  capabilities  of  the 
201 -A  vacuum  tube.  As  I  recall,  Bill 
isworth  and  Don  Howe  were 
luate  instructors  working  on  their 
iter's  degrees  at  the  time,  and  they 

were  among  the  faculty  minority 

possessed  an  interest  in  electronics. 
Alumni  Directory  still  lists  them  as 
ilty  members. 


ine  tiectronics  Laboratory  was  very 
primitive  by  modern  standards,  however 
some  of  the  better  items  of  lab 
equipment  available  had  metal  plates 
affixed  to  them,  reading  "Gift  of 
Atwater  Kent— 1922."  This  was  the  first 
time  I  became  aware  that  Kent  had 
attended  Tech,  and  until  I  read  the 
Journal  article  I  assumed  that  he  was  in 
the  Class  of  1922. 

I'm  not  sure  if  the  practice  is  still 
continued,  but  in  my  time  group 
pictures  of  graduating  EE  classes  were 
displayed  in  the  main  corridor  of  the  EE 
building,  so  out  of  curiosity  I  checked 
the  1922  class  picture  to  see  what  he 
looked  like  in  his  student  days. 
Naturally  he  was  not  included,  but  I  did 
not  consider  this  unusual  since  I  learned 
shortly  afterward  that  he  did  not 
graduate.  Only  when  I  read  the  Journal 
article  did  I  learn  that  his  short 
association  with  Tech  was  terminated 
more  than  20  years  earlier,  so  I  would 
assume  that  1922  was  the  year  that  the 
lab  equipment  was  donated. 

In  any  event,  I  thoroughly  enjoyed 
the  Journal  article  since  I  have  long 
been  interested  in  the  man  who 
inadvertently  furnished  me  with  many 
of  the  components  for  my  earlier  home- 
built  receivers,  and  this  interest  was 
subsequently  enhanced  by  the  knowledge 
that,  however  briefly  on  Kent's  part,  we 
both  attended  the  same  school. 

Jim  Fernane,  '42 

Amateur  Radio  W3YE 

Washington,  D.C. 


Clearing  up  the  Fairbanks  fog 
Editor:  The  article  in  the  August  1976 
issue,  .("The  Odyssey  of  Jim  Aceto") 
"Part  I:  60  Below  Zero,"  was  of 
interest  because  of  the  two  years  and 
most  of  three  winters  I  spent  in  Alaska, 
but  an  inadvertent  error  occurred  in  the 
Aceto  statement  about  the  formation  of 
ice  fog.  The  latter  besets  the  city  of 
Fairbanks  when  the  temperature  falls 
below  -30  to  -35°F,  not  above  that 
approximate  temperature. 

In  late  November  1950,  shortly  after 
my  arrival  in  Fairbanks,  I  walked 
around  the  city  when  its  temperature 
had  initially  dropped  to  -50°F  to  test  my 
winter  apparel.  (The  military  issue  boots 
at  that  time  also  were  excellent.  The 
upper  portion  was  of  felt,  naturally 
white  in  color,  and  they  were  issued  to 
all  local  USAF  personnel,  government 
civilian  employees,  and  the  locally  based 
Battalion  of  the  4th  Infantry  Regiment.) 

While  auto  exhaust  moisture  and 
particles  are  a  prime  source  of  the 
nuclei  necessary  for  ice  fog  formation, 
an  equal  source  is  the  effluents  from 
chimneys. 


Ice  fog  forms  in  supercooled, 
supersaturated  air  with  minimal 
movement  (less  than  5  knots  of  wind 
speed),  and  requires  some  form  of 
nuclei.  Ice  fog  is  composed  mainly  of 
the  needle  form  of  prismatic  ice  crystals. 
Fairbanks  is  the  ideal  spot  for  such  fog 
formation  because  of  its  typically  calm 
wind  conditions,  while  Nome,  which  has 
a  prevailing  wind  and  shows  a  much 
lower  wind  chill  factor,  shows  the 
blowing  snow  phenomenon  but  rarely 
has  ice  fog.  The  minute  particles  in 
chimney  and  auto  exhaust,  plus  the 
associated  water  vapor,  are  sufficient  to 
"sock  in"  Fairbanks  for  days — even 
weeks — at  a  time. 

While  piloting  USAF  aircraft  to  the 
north,  over  the  Yukon  Valley,  then  up 
beyond  the  Brooks  Range  and  over  the 
tundra,  we  could  locate  herds  of  caribou 
by  the  thin  layer  of  ice  fog  that  always 
lay  among  an  animal  herd  (from 
exhalation  moisture). 

While  I  have  overflown  Aceto's  base 
at  Camp  Dietrich  and  the  nearby  (15 
miles)  village  of  Wiseman,  I  never  had 
occasion  to  land  at  their  airstrip. 
However,  on  one  trip  I  took  a  USC&GS 
survey  party  by  C-47  into  the  Bettles 
strip,  55  air  miles  to  the  southwest. 

As  implied  by  Aceto,  Alaska,  much 
larger  than  Texas,  is  a  world  of  its  own. 
The  taxis  in  Fairbanks  were  operated  24 
hours  a  day  to  avoid  shutdown  and 
startup  problems,  and  in  spite  of 
increased  fuel  and  oil  consumption. 
Those  who  departed  in  late  summer  and 
before  the  onset  of  cold  weather,  with 
or  without  a  return  in  late  spring,  were 
labeled  Cheechakos  by  those  who  stayed 
through  the  winter,  after  the  small 
native  bird  that  carries  out  the  same 
procedure. 

When  you  are  there,  you  are  on  the 
"Inside."  Anyplace  outside  of  Alaska's 
boundary  is  known  as  "Outside."  The 
night  we  left  Fairbanks'  Ladd  AFB 
(since  deactivated)  it  was  -63°F  on  the 
airfield's  ramp  and  the  engines  on  our 
C-54  transport  plane  were  not  shut 
down  during  cargo  and  passenger 
loading.  It  could  not  be  said  that  we 
were  sorry  to  leave  such  winter 
conditions,  but  the  scenery,  hunting, 
and  fishing  that  remained  behind  were 
"out  of  this  world." 

P.S.  My  assignment  was  dual — carry 
out  synoptic  and  enroute  weather 
forecasting  from  the  AWS 
meteorological  office  on  the  second 
floor  of  Ladd's  Hanger  #1,  and  "drive" 
USAF  aircraft  throughout  most  of 
Alaska  and  portions  of  the  Yukon 
Territory. 

Robert  H.  Hodges,  '42 
Pelham.N.Y. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  5 


Salisbury  Laboratories 
Renewed  and  rededicatei 


The  mass  exodus  took  place  in 
December  1974.  Faculty  scattere< 
in  all  directions  to  temporary 
quarters  as  Salisbury  Laboratory 
perhaps  the  single  most-used 
building  on  campus,  then  the  hoi 
of  five  departments,  was  emptied 
out.  After  85  years  of  service,  th< 
building  was  to  be  renovated  and 
modernized  to  meet  the  changed 
needs  of  a  new  era  and  to  provid 
new  and  more  appropriate  faciliti 
to  support  the  educational  proces 
This  past  summer,  just  eighteei 
months  later,  people  began  to 
trickle  back  into  Salisbury, 
department  by  department,  movii 
around  the  workmen  who  were 
finishing  up  other  areas  of  the 
building.  Fully  functioning  as 
school  opened  in  September, 
Salisbury  once  more  stands  at  the 
heart  of  WP1,  both  geographicall 
and  functionally.  Where  it  started 
off  in  the  nineteenth  century 
housing  engineering  departments 
and  the  physical  sciences,  its 
occupants  today  are  the  life 
sciences  and  the  "people" 
departments:  humanities,  social 
science  and  policy  studies,  and 
management. 


At  left,  the  striking  new  courtyard  of  Salist 

provides  a  warm  and  attractive  invitation  to 

building. 

At  right  is  the  brand-new  skylight  and  stairc 

that   link   the   Kinnicutt   wing   to   the   rest 

Salisbury,  and  open  up  the  basement  le\ 

the  rest  of  the  building. 


WPI  Journal 


I 


s: 
53 


■i2 

1 

s: 
-s: 
o 

v. 

o 

■•«» 
o 

0. 


\:V  Li  "^ 


^ 


y 


At  the  top  of  this  page  are  contrasted  the 
new  and  old  entrances  to  Salisbury. 
Below  and  at  right  are  the  student  and  cor 
muter  lounge  areas  which  are  just  inside  th 
front  entrance. 
At  top  right  is  the  computer  terminal  room 
open  24  hours  a  day. 


*  WPI  Journal 


ier  the  goals  of  the  WPI  Plan, 
college  seeks  to  educate 
:ntists  and  engineers  who 
e  not  merely  a  thorough 
unding  in  their  field  but  also  a 
i  understanding  of  the 
ilications  of  their  technology  on 
iety  and  its  needs.  Thus  the 
sent  occupants  of  Salisbury 
resent  a  cross-section  of  the 
demic  disciplines  which  lay  the 
ndation  for  this  broader 
lerstanding  among  WPI 
ients. 


Salisbury  is,  in  fact,  the  third 
oldest  building  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Only 
Boynton  Hall  and  Washburn 
Shops  predate  it.  The  school  first 
opened  its  doors  for  students  in 
1868  with  a  then-unique  concept  of 
combining  theoretical  and  practical 
instruction  in  the  education  of 
engineers.  Soon,  however,  the 
college  was  attracting  students 
from  an  expanded  geographic  area, 
and  so  the  original  name, 
Worcester  County  Free  Institute  of 


industrial  Science,  was  dropped 
and  the  present  name  adopted.  But 
success  created  serious 
overcrowding  on  campus.  By  1887 
it  was  apparent  that  a  new  building 
was  needed,  and  this  would 
represent  a  50  percent  expansion  of 
the  physical  plant  for  a  young 
school  with  a  very  modest 
endowment. 

While  the  trustees  deliberated  on 
how  to  meet  the  urgent  need  for 
additional  laboratory  space,  the 
problem  was  solved  by  a  gift  of 
$100,000  from  trustee  Stephen 
Salisbury  III  as  a  memorial  to  his 
father,  who  had  been  one  of  the 
college's  original  trustees  and 
major  benefactors. 

Salisbury  Laboratories  were 
planned  by  the  faculty  who  would 
occupy  the  new  structure.  Professor 
George  I.  Alden  designed  the  spaces 
for  the  rapidly  growing  department 
of  mechanical  engineering. 
Professor  Alonzo  Kimball 
determined  the  needs  of  the 
department  of  physics  with  its  new 
program  in  electrical  engineering, 
soon  to  grow  into  an  academic 
department  of  its  own.  Professor 
Leonard  P.  Kinnicutt  chose  a 
portion  of  the  first  floor  for 
chemistry,  with  laboratories  on  the 
top  floor,  "where  the  wind  would 
have  a  chance  to  dissipate  the 
odors." 

The  noted  architect  Stephen 
Earle,  who  had  designed  Boynton 
Hall  twenty  years  earlier,  was  asked 
to  design  Salisbury  Laboratories.  He 
was  charged  that  it  was  not  to  be 
built  for  looks  but  as  a  functional 
laboratory. 

The  cornerstone  was  laid  in  June 
1888,  and  Salisbury  Laboratories 
opened  sixteen  months  later  with  no 
formal  dedication.  It  housed,  on  the 
first  floor,  mechanical  engineering, 
the  testing  laboratory,  steam 
engineering  laboratory,  and  the 
electro  technical  (sic)  laboratory.  On 
the  second  floor  were  the 
mechanical  drawing  room, 
mechanical  museum,  Professor 
Alden 's  study  and  recitation  rooms, 
electrical  laboratory  for  advanced 
work,  two  physics  rooms,  a 
dynamo,  and  electric  storage 
batteries.  One  floor  up,  on  the 
third,  were  physics  rooms  for 
calorimetry,  photography, 
photometry,  a  spectrum  room, 
reading  room,  general  laboratory, 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  9 


-*     m\ 


* 


& 


s  > 


A->v 


v\-.  - 


lecture  room,  apparatus  room,  and 
a  laboratory  for  the  study  of 
elementary  electricity.  Chemistry 
laboratories  and  lecture  rooms 
occupied  the  top  floor. 

Soon  after  the  building  opened,  a 
fire  of  undetermined  origin  caused 
$1,500  damage,  destroying  the 
contents  of  the  chemical  laboratory 
stock  room  and  causing  damage  to 
adjacent  areas.  It  seems  probable 
that  the  top  floor  location  enabled 
the  wind  to  dissipate  the  odors  from 
this  chemical  reaction  quite  well 
i  ndecd . 

Spacious  as  the  new  laboratories 
must  have  seemed  to  faculty  and 
students  when  Salisbury  was 
completed,  the  college  continued  to 
L-nm  in  both  si/e  and  prestige.  In 
1X94  the  mechanical  engineering 
department  moved  into  the  new 
Stratton  Hall,  which  was  to  remain 

10  WPI  Journal 


Above,  one  of  the  two  small  lecture  halls, 
holding  about  100  people. 
At  far  left   is  one  of  the  normal  classrooms. 
At  left  and  above,  views  of  the  new  Kinnicutt 
Hall,  an  outstanding  small  auditorium  seating 
about  200. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  11 


the  ME  building  until  Higgins 
Laboratories  was  completed  in  1942. 
In  the  summer  of  1907  the  young 
electrical  engineering  department 
took  over  its  own  new  building, 
known  today  as  Atwater  Kent 
Laboratories.  Then,  for  nearly  half 
a  century,  physics  and  chemistry 
shared  Salisbury. 

Sixty  years  after  the  cornerstone 
was  laid,  the  first  addition  to 
Salisbury  was  agreed  upon.  Briggs 
and  Company,  architects,  and  E.J. 
Cross  Company,  contractors,  were 
chosen  to  build  Kinnicutt  Hall  at  a 
cost  of  $74,000.  The  addition 
provided  a  200-seat  lecture  hall  and 
sorely  needed  additional  office, 
laboratory,  and  classroom  spaces. 

As  soon  as  the  Kinnicutt  Hall 
addition  was  dedicated,  the  trustees 
approved  a  second  addition  to 
Salisbury  to  house  the  chemical 


Above  are  parts  of  the  biomedical 
engineering  area  in  Salisbury:  a  small  surgery, 
and  a  large  instrumentation  laboratory. 
At  right  is  one  of  the  many  life  sciences  labs 
now  housed  in  the  renovated  Salisbury. 


engineering  departments's  unit 
operations  laboratory,  at  a  cost  of 
$41,000. 

With  the  completion  of  Olin  Hall 
of  Physics  in  1959,  Salisbury  Labs 
lost  yet  another  tenant.  The  last 
original  occupant,  the  department  of 
chemical  engineering  and  chemistry, 
moved  into  Goddard  Hall  in  1965 
and  became  two  separate  academic 
departments. 

While  the  ghosts  of  chemists  and 
physicists  past  lingered  on  in  the 
shadows,  Salisbury  was  by  no  means 
,i  vacant,  haunted  house.  The 


vacated  spaces  became  home  to  til 
departments  of  humanities; 
computer  science;  biomedical 
engineering;  life  sciences; 
economics,  government,  and 
business;  military  science;  and 
management  engineering.  In  fact, 
since  it  was  originally  built, 
Salisbury  has  been  the  home  of 
every  academic  department  except 
civil  engineering  and  mathematics, 
Every  WPI  student  since  1889  has 
probably  taken  at  least  one  cours<: 
in  this  building. 

When  the  WPI  Plan  to  Restore| 
the  Balance  capital  fund  campaigi 
was  formulated  in  1971,  Salisbury 
Laboratories  became  one  of  the 
major  objectives.  After  nearly 
ninety  years  of  hard  use,  the  basic 
structure  was  still  sound  but  the 
interior  spaces  were  musty 
Victorian,  with  antiquated  facilitici 
and  inefficient  space  arrangement: 
for  its  present  uses.  A  matter  of 
compelling  concern  was  the 
condition  of  aging  utilities  service: 
some  of  them  dating  back  to  the 
building's  original  construction  an| 
others  added  on  later. 

After  careful  deliberation,  WPI 
chose  to  renovate  Salisbury  rather 
than  replace  it  with  a  completely 
new  building.  There  were  two 
reasons.  First,  this  course  offered 
the  greatest  value  for  the  money. 
Second,  it  allowed  the  college  to 
preserve  an  important  link  to  its 
past  and  its  founders. 

As  the  campaign  progressed  anc 
funds  were  secured,  firm  plans  for 
complete  renovation  were  approve 
The  architectural  firm  of 
Anselevicius/Rupe  Associates 
accepted  the  challenging  assignmei 
of  transforming  Salisbury  into  a 
modern  and  attractive  academic 
center.  Granger  Contracting 
Company,  headed  by  Raymond 
Granger,  '37,  transformed  the 
architect's  designs  into  reality, 
completing  the  project  ahead  of 
schedule. 

The  time  lag  between  planning 
and  execution  took  its  own  toll.  T 
originally  planned-for  cost  of  $1.1 
million  went  to  over  $2  million,  bi 
the  college  has  certainly  gotten  its 
money's  worth.  The  changes  have 
encompassed  over  50,000  square  f< 
of  space,  twenty-five  laboratories, 
four  classrooms,  three  lecture  hall; 
four  seminar  and  conference  room 
offices  for  54  faculty  members,  an 
student  and  faculty  lounges. 


12  WPI  Journal 


Vs  you  approach  the  outside  of 
Salisbury,  it  doesn't  look 
pecially  different.  A  courtyard 
ound  the  main  entrance  (facing 
ashburn)  has  been  "landscaped" 
th  red  brick  into  attractive 
nches  and  planters,  and  this  helps 
ften  the  stark  functionality  of  the 
iginal  structure,  bringing  Salisbury 
Dre  into  harmony  with  its 
ighbors.  A  new,  sheltered 
tranceway  guides  you  into  the 
dlding. 

And  it's  when  you  walk  inside  for 
e  first  time,  remembering  the  fusty 
abness  of  the  old  Salisbury  Labs, 
at  the  visual  changes  really  strike 
me.  The  inside  has  been  opened 

into  airy  and  appealing  lounge 
;as  for  students  and  faculty, 
tcker  space  has  been  provided  for 
mmuters,  so  that  Salisbury  can  be 
:onvenient  second  home, 
irpeting  on  the  floor  helps  create  a 
irm  atmosphere,  and  keeps  noise 
wn  too. 

Just  behind  the  lounge  areas  is  a 
il  delight  for  the  eye, 
questionably  the  highlight  of  the 
w  Salisbury.  The  roof  has  been 
ipped  off  the  connecting  link 
tween  the  original  building  and 
nnicutt  Hall.  In  its  place  is  a  high 
d  sharply  angled  skylight  that 
erlooks  a  broad,  open  stairwell 
wn  to  the  lower  level.  The  brick 
11  of  the  Kinnicutt  addition  that 
:es  this  area  has  been  sandblasted 
fresh  brightness. 
^\nd  everywhere  there  is  color! 
e  brick  walls  have  been  painted 
ite  and  yellow,  and  they  are  set 
7  with  large  panels  and  dividers  of 
ght  blue  and  green.  Architect 
iselevicius  has  been  rigorously 
thful  to  the  basic  structure  of  the 
ilding,  and  he  has  treated  the 
lechanicals" — the  plumbing, 
'ing,  and  ductwork — with 
reshing  honesty  and  imagination, 
ose  things  that  can't  reasonably 
hidden  are  instead  treated  to 
ght,  glossy  colors,  and  they  end 

forming  an  attractive 
jnterpoint  to  the  solid  and 
adorned  walls. 
<innicutt  Hall,  one  of  the 
lege's  two  main  lecture  halls,  is  a 
il  showpiece  with  its  blue 
holstered  seating,  indirect 
hting,  and  kelly  green  side  walls. 
I  also  more  functional  than  it  has 
:n  in  years.  Full  audio-visual 
'port  facilities  are  incorporated, 


Here  are  some  of  the  departmental  office 
areas  in  the  renovated  Salisbury.  At  top  i 
the  life  sciences  office,  which  overlooks  t> 
building's  central  stairway  (middle)  down 
the  humanities  department  (below).  This  e 
of  the  stairway  and  skylight  has  made  the 
basement  area  an  integral  part  of  the 
building's  visible  space. 


including  a  projection  and  camera 
booth  at  the  rear  and  suspended 
television  monitors  for  the  benefit 
of  the  audience  in  the  rear  of  the 
auditorium. 

Two  smaller  lecture  halls,  each 
holding  about  100  students,  finally 
give  adequate  space  for  lectures  as 
well  as  various  types  of  meetings, 
presentations,  and  evening  events. 

Above  the  first  floor,  most  of  the 
open  spaces  vanish  in  favor  of 
smaller  offices,  classrooms,  and 
laboratories.  It  is,  in  one  student's 
words,  "like  a  rabbit  warren,  cut  up 
into  so  many  little  spaces.  It's  a 
little  hard  to  find  your  way  around 
at  first,  but  the  space  is  so 
incredibly  efficient  and  well 
organized." 

But  for  all  the  astonishing 
changes  apparent  to  the  eye,  there 
are  equally  important  changes  that 


one  simply  does  not  notice — the 
completely  new  electrical  system, 
new  heating  and  plumbing,  and 
changes  which  allow  ready  access 
Salisbury's  academic  spaces  by  th«j 
handicapped.  In  fact,  over  one-th? 
of  the  cost  of  the  renovation  was 
involved  with  these  unseen  factors. 


It  was  one  busy  weekend  as 
Salisbury  Laboratories  was 
rededicated  on  September  18.  Frid 
evening,  WPI  hosted  a  reception 
and  guided  tours  of  the  building  ft 
the  major  donors  who  made  the 
renovation  possible.  All  weekend 
long,  beginning  Friday  night,  the 
Alumni  Association  Council  held  i 
annual  meeting  (with  time  off  for 
the  other  activities). 

But  to  formally  mark  the  signifi 
cance  of  the  occasion,  President 


14  I  October  1976  I  WPI  Journal 


azzard  convened  on  Saturday  a 
'mposium  on  the  subject,  "People 
id  Technology:  A  Humane  Bai- 
lee," with  three  nationally  known 
)eakers.  They  were  Fletcher 
yrom,  chairman  of  the  board  of 
oppers  Company;  Hazel  Hen- 
jrson,  co-director  of  the  Princeton 
enter  for  Alternative  Futures;  and 
erman  Kahn,  founder  and  director 
f  the  Hudson  Institute,  and  author 
f  the  recent  best-seller,  The  Next 
10  Years:  A  Scenario  for  America 
id  the  World.  The  symposium  had 
;en  planned  for  the  courtyard  out- 
de  Salisbury,  but  heavy  rains 
oring  the  preceding  week  forced 
e  proceedings  indoors  to  Kinnicutt 
all.  The  three  symposium  partici- 
mts  spoke  to  an  overflow  audience 
he  overflow  watching  in  nearby 
ioms  via  closed-circuit  TV).  While 
ey  all  seemed  pretty  much  agreed 
at  the  future  of  our  world  was  op- 
nistic  and  hopeful,  they  disagreed 
ihemently  about  what  should  be 
)ne  to  get  there.  The  comments  of 
e  three  will  be  published  in  the 
ecember  issue  of  the  Journal. 
But  the  tone  of  the  weekend  was, 
ir  many,  pretty  well  summed  up  by 
yrom:  "The  rededication  of 
ilisbury  Laboratories  focuses  re- 
:wed  attention  upon  the  need  to 
omote  interfaces  between  science 
id  the  humanities  if  their  various 
sciplines  are  to  serve  society.  I  was 
r  from  the  campus,  in  time  and 
stance,  when  I  discovered  how 
uch  I  could  learn  from  the 
lilosophers,  the  anthropologists, 
e  social  scientists,  the  classic 
onomists.  I  am  still  working  hard 
catch  up.  Your  graduates — those 
^chnological  humanists'  described 
a  recent  issue  of  American  Edu- 
tion — leave  here  with  a  running 
art." 


top,  the  plaque  installed  on  the  front  face 
the  Kinnicutt  wing. 
ddle,  a  view  of  the  symposium  that 
jhlighted  the  building's  rededication. 

right,  speakers  at  the  rededication  were 
om  left)  Paul  S.  Morgan  (WPI  trustee  and 
airman  of  the  WPI  Plan  to  Restore  the 
ilance),  the  Rev.  Winthrop  Hall,  '02,  who 
oke  the  invocation  and  benediction,  Robert 

Hess,  a  trustee  of  the  George  I.  Alden 
ust,  and  President  George  Hazzard. 


SALISBURY    LABORATORIES 

Named  in  honor  of 

STEPHEN  SALISBURY  II 

a  founder  of  the  Institute  and  first  chairman 

of  its  Board  of  Trustees,  this  building 
is  the  gift  of  his  son,  Stephen  Salisbury  III. 

From  1865  to  1905,  the  Salisbury  family  provided 
WPI  with  exemplary   leadership.  Their  generosity 
included  a  gift  of  the  land  for  the  campus- 
Extensive  interior  renovations  were  made 
possible  by  the  generous  support  of  alumni 
and  friends  and  a  major  grant  from  the 
George  I.  Alden  Trust. 

Professor  Alden,  a  member  of  the  original 

faculty,  was  a  colleague  of  Stephen  Salisbury  II. 

"heir  dedicated  and  untiring  efforts  to  advance 

the  growth  and  development  of  the  Institute 

are  gratefully  and  permanently  acknowledged. 

Cornerstone  Laid-1888  Rededicated-1976 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  15 


Reunion 

Wrapup 


CLASS  OF  1926,  50th  REUNION 

Commencing  in  1971,  the  committee 
chosen  to  prepare  the  50th  went  to 
work  with  preliminary  plans  which 
culminated  in  a  most  successful 
weekend  from  Thursday  the  3rd 
through  Saturday  the  5th  of  June. 
This  committee  was  composed  of 
Lawrence  S.  Peterson,  Chairman, 
Emerson  A.  Wiggin,  Archie  J. 
Home,  and  Charles  B.  Hardy.  The 
class  headquarters  were  at  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn  where  the 
Friday  night  banquet  was  well 
attended  with  lots  of  chatter  getting 
reacquainted.  Phil  Delphos  showed 
slides  of  past  reunions  which 
brought  back  a  flood  of  happy 
memories  to  the  class  which 
furnished  dialogue  and  sound 
effects. 

Our  own  bus  furnished  transport 
from  the  Inn  to  events  on  the  Hill, 
the  first  of  which  was  a  delightful 
reception  on  Thursday  hosted  by 
President  and  Mrs.  George  W. 
Hazzard  at  1  Drury  Lane.  This  was 


a  fine  mixer  and  provided  the 
springboard  for  the  events  which 
followed.  Our  host  and  hostess 
made  the  party  a  spectacular 
success. 

Later  Thursday  evening  we  were 
guests  at  a  very  special  dinner  at  the 
Higgins  House  as  a  Welcome  Home, 
which  it  most  certainly  was.  Our  50- 
year  diplomas  were  presented 
following  dinner  and  brought  back 
memories  of  that  grand  day  50  years 
ago. 

On  Friday,  the  4th,  many  of  the 
class  attended  the  special  1926 
buffet  luncheon  at  Morgan  Hall. 
Tours  of  the  campus  and  the  nearby 
Worcester  Art  Museum  were  offered 
and  well  patronized.  The  dinner  on 
Friday  evening  at  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  was  well  organized  and  a 
memorable  event.  Letters  and  best 
wishes  were  read  from  several  who 
could  not  attend.  A  moment  of 
silent  prayer  was  offered  for  those 
classmates  who  had  passed  away. 

A  very  special  welcome  was  given 
to  Mrs.  C.  Sture  Carlson  and  Mrs. 
Clyde  W.  Hubbard  who  attended 
most  of  the  events. 

Officers  for  the  next  five  years 
were  elected  as  follows: 

President,  Harold  A.  Baines 

Vice  Pres.,  James  A.  Robertson 

Sec/Treas.,  Arthur  C.  Parsons 
Claims  of  a  "railroad"  election 
were  ignored. 

On  Saturday,  1926  became 
freshmen  again  in  the  50- Year 
Associates  where  we  heard  Bill 
Johnson,  1976  class  president, 
describe  undergraduate  activities  and 
President  Hazzard  related  stories  of 


the  management  of  the  2,000 
student  college  and  its  future  in  a 
competitive  field. 

The  picnic  on  the  lawn  at  the 
Higgins  House  was  the  big  event  < 
Reunion  Day  with  excellent  weath1 
and  happy  noisy  alumni  from  all 
classes.  It  was  at  this  luncheon  th; 
our  gift  chairman,  Milt  Berglund,1 
presented  the  results  of  his 
committee's  hard  work  over  the  p| 
three  years.  It  was  a  check  for 
$180,000  to  the  college  and  includl 
a  bequest  of  $125,000  from  the 
estate  of  Wallace  H.  Tucker  who 
passed  away  recently.  The  gift  will 
be  used  to  fund  the  student  loungn 
area  in  the  remodeled  Salisbury 
Hall.  Awards  were  presented  with 
fitting  ceremonies  and  1926  was 
awarded  the  attendance  cup  for  th| 
second  time,  a  unique 
accomplishment. 

Finally,  the  reunion  broke  up  w: 
farewell  greetings  all  around  and 
promises  to  return  in  1981  for  our1 
55th! 


1926  CLASSMATES  ATTENDIN* 
THE  50th  REUNION 
Archibald,  Kenneth  R.(Mr.  and  M 
Baines,  Harold  A.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 
Bennet,  Walter  R.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 
Berglund,  Milton  E.  (Mr.  and  Mrs 
Bjork,  Raymond  H.  (Mr.  and  Mrs 
Borrner,  Carl  O.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 
Brewster,  Oliver  H.  (Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Burns,  Douglas  S.  (Mr.) 
Chinnock,  Ormond  J.  (Mr. and  Mr: 
Connolly,  Raymond  C.  (Mr. and  M 


16  WPI  Journal 


elphos,  Phillip  R.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

elder,  Frederick  D.  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

ager,  Donald  L.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

ardy,  Charles  B.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

ealey,  Charles  M.  Jr.  (Mr.) 

edin,  Fred  H.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

orne,  Archie  J.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

)hnson,  Stanley  F.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

mes,  Chandler  W.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

allander,  O.  Harold  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

urkjian,  Vahan  B.  (Mr.) 

arston,  Winthrop  S.  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

aylott,  Carleton  F.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

ildrum,  Henry  G.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

iller,  John  S.  (Mr.) 

oran,  Charles  M.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

orse,  John  A.  (Mr.) 

ige,  Linwood  E.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

iquette,  Armand  L.  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

irsons,  Arthur  C.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

terson,  Lawrence  S.  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

)bertson,  James  A.  (Mr.  and 

rs.) 

issell,  William  A.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

xton,  Randall  P.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

hoonmaker,  Theodore  D.  (Mr.) 

ars,  Donald  F.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

ow,  Francis  R.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

:ele,  Mabbott  B.  (Mr.) 

atton,  Harry  E.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

omson,  Howard  B.  (Mr.  and 

s.) 

ompson,  Charles  J.  (Mr.  and 

s.) 

ide,  Llewellin  W.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

;bster,  Irvin  S.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 

mtworth,  Warren  T.  (Mr.) 

ggin,  Emerson  A.  (Mr.  and  Mrs.) 


CLASS  OF  1936,  40th  REUNION 

The  fortieth  reunion  of  the  Class  of 
1936  was  ideal  in  many  ways.  The 
weather  was  the  best  that  New 
England  offers,  and  the  fourth  and 
fifth  of  June  were  perfect. 

The  headquarters  for  the  class 
was  at  the  Fuller  Residence  on 
Institute  Road  right  across  from  the 
dormitories.  This  was  a  very  central 
location,  very  comfortable,  and  we 
were  able  to  have  a  hospitality  suite 
at  the  residence.  The  hospitality 
suite  served  as  a  focal  point  for  the 
beginning  and  ending  of  each  of  the 
activities  of  the  weekend. 

About  30%  of  the  living 
members  of  the  class  and  their  wives 
(where  applicable)  attended  a 
reception  given  by  President 
Hazzard  and  his  wife  at  their  home 
on  Drury  Lane.  From  there  we  went 
to  a  fine  dinner  at  the  Higgins 
House,  which  is  now  part  of  the 
campus.  After  the  dinner  and  a  few 
short  speeches,  we  adjourned  either 
to  the  hospitality  room  or  to  an 
"Old  Timers"  party  in  the 
dormitory. 

The  weather  for  Saturday's  picnic 
on  the  lawn  of  the  Higgins  House 
was  perfect.  During  the  ceremonies 
following  the  picnic,  George 
Rocheford  presented  a  check  for 
nearly  $30,000  from  our  class. 

After  the  picnic  it  was  either  a 
campus  tour  or  a  gathering  in  the 
hospitality  room.  Then,  in  the 
evening,  there  was  a  dinner  at  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln. 

By  this  time  everyone  knew  each 
other  well,  and  the  singing  and  the 
conversation  was  loud  and  clear. 


The  following  members  of  the 
Class  of  1936  took  part  in  activities 
of  the  weekend: 

Edward  W.  Armstrong 
Leo  T.  Benoit 
Carl  F.  Benson 
Walter  F.  Beth 
Jack  R.  Brand 
Roger  W.  Bruce 
Allen  C.  Chase 
George  L.  Chase 
Earl  M.  Curtis 
Walter  G.  Dahlstrom 
Alfred  C.  Ekberg 
George  B.  Estes 
Robert  Fowler,  Jr. 
Scott  K.  Goodwin 
Alexander  L.  Gordon 
Martin  C.  Gowdey 
A.  Hamilton  Gurnham 
Joseph  R.  Hastings  Jr. 
Harold  F.  Henrickson 
L.  Brewster  Howard 
Leonard  W.  Johnson 
William  J.  Kosciak 
N.  Robert  Levine 
William  C.  Maine 
Foster  McRell 
John  A.  Porter 
George  E.  Rocheford 
Jacob  A.  Sacks 
George  A.  Sherwin 
Joseph  A.  Stead 
J.  Headen  Thompson 
Abbott  D.  Wilcox 
George  P.  Wood 

We  look  forward  with  eagerness 
to  our  next  reunion  and  feel  sure  it 
will  be  as  good  as  our  fortieth. 


. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  17 


CLASS  OF  1951,  25th  REUNION 

Congratulations  to  all  who 
participated  in  one  way  or  another 
in  our  25th  Reunion  festivities.  It 
was  a  huge  success,  and,  as  in  all 
things  in  life,  it  was  the  people  who 
made  it  what  it  was  for  each  of  us. 
We  had  a  strong  turnout  for  all 
activities,  despite  the  rather  low 
count  of  intentions  and  reservations 
made  right  up  to  Friday  night. 

The  favorite  activity  was  to  watch 
the  expressions  of  faint  recognition 
-inquisitiveness -doubt -painful 
recollection  retrieval-and  final 
expressions  of  "Oh  my  god" 
recognition  on  many  a  face  which, 
in  itself,  had  changed  slightly  over 
the  years  .  .  .  except  for  Herbie 
Hayes. 

We  started  the  weekend  Friday 
night  at  the  Morgan  Hall  "wedge" 
on  campus  with  a  good  turnout  of 
approximately  60  members  and 
wives.  Between  the  Ragtime 
Rowdies  band  and  the  Celtics 
playoff  game,  many  a  yarn  of  the 
old  days  was  spun.  Adjourning  to 
our  own  private  club  area  in  the 
lounge  of  Stoddard  dorm,  a 
continuation  of  getting  reacquainted 
and  a  catchup  of  family  news  and 
25  years  of  activities  weni  on  (ill  the 
wee  hours  of  the  morning. 

Saturday  came  tOO  last  lor  most 
ot  us.   Almiii  ;i  good  lurnoul  showed 


up  for  the  noon  Reunion  picnic  on 
the  beautiful  grounds  of  the  Higgins 
House  on  a  beautiful  sunny  day 
which  made  for  a  most  enjoyable 
event.  Ra  Ra  Wolff  made  our  class 
gift  presentation  of  $38,000. 
Congratulations  to  all  who  made  it 
possible.  Louis  DelSignore  and 
family  came  down  from  New 
Hampshire  to  be  with  us,  and  our 
numbers  began  to  swell.  Enthusiasm 
ran  high. 

Later  we  retired  to  our  Stoddard 
lounge  area  or  toured  the  campus, 
and  at  5:00  p.m.  descended  on  the 
gracious  household  of  President 
Hazzard,  where  we  were  cordially 
greeted  by  him  and  his  wife  and 
were  royally  treated  to  a  fantastic 
happy  hour.  Again  our  numbers 
were  swelled  by  new  arrivals,  and 
Bob  and  Jean  Pritchard  joined  us, 
also. 

Marching  as  an  army  we  left 
President  Hazzard's  house,  walked 
across  Park  Avenue,  and  through 
the  athletic  field  to  the  Higgins 
mansion  and  its  palatial  grounds 
where  our  picture  was  taken.  Our 
reunion  banquet  was  held  there, 
too — a  most  elegant  atmosphere. 

Our  fearless  leader,  Rich  Ferrari, 
who  had  made  a  long  drive  with  a 
bad  back  to  be  with  us  and  help 
make  the  reunion  the  success  it  was, 
led  us  in  a  fun  kind  of  business 
meeting  where  all  former  officers 


were  again  railroaded  into 
continuing  their  status.  A  new  offic 
was  created  by  Rich,  and  the  class  ; 
of  '51  now  has  an  illustrious  PR 
man  in  the  name  of  Walt  Dennen.  j 
Walt  provided  everyone,  on  very 
short  notice,  with  some  humorous  j 
plaudits  to  various  members  of  the 
class  on  their  apparent 
accomplishments  over  the  past  25 
years,  and  most  especially  for  their 
reunion  contributions.  Charlie 
McNulty,  Joe  Gale,  and  their  wives 
joined  us  for  these  activities. 

Again  we  retired  to  our  Stoddard 
lounge  area  and  until  the  wee  hours 
of  Sunday  morning  had  a  great  time 
reuniting  lasting  friendships  and 
bidding  each  other  goodbye.  We 
had  many  who  had  come  a  long 
way:  Henry  Taylor  flying  his  own 
plane  from  Michigan,  Ev  Johnson 
from  Florida,  and  Jack  Dillon  from 
California  led  the  parade.  Notes 
from  Lee  Bassett  and  Roy  Olson, 
among  others,  showed  that  they 
were  thinking  of  us.  Missing  from 
the  ranks  we  expect  to  see  at  the 
next  reunion  were  the  Kolodnes, 
Baldwins,  Gabarros,  Kesslers, 
Hansens,  Lovells,  Lunds,  Wyes,  etc. 
Make  your  plans  now  for  the  30th! 

Many  thanks  to  the 
administration  and  all  who  made 
possible  a  most  enjoyable  reunion 
weekend. 


18  WPt  Journal 


1944 


data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
?d  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
ociation  before  September  15,  when  it 

compiled  for  publication.  Information  re- 
ed after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
iing  issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


02 


brose  Kennedy  retired  in  February 
wing  41  years  of  service  at  IBM. 


W 


Campbell  is  editor  of  the  newsletter 
does  computer  documentation  in  the 
outer  department  at  Temple  University, 
delphia. 


]35 


am  R.  Steur,  who  received  an  honorary 
;e  from  WPI  last  spring,  has  retired  as  a 
ler  and  general  manager  of  Sargent  & 
ly,  Chicago.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1936. 
our  years  he  was  with  Peter  F.  Loftus, 

Pittsburgh,  returning  to  the  Sargent  & 
ly  mechanical  engineering  staff  in  1945. 
/as  named  an  associate  of  the  firm  in 

and  a  partner  in  1962.  Then  he  became 
ager  of  the  mechanical  department  and 
tor  of  engineering.  In  1973  he  was 
ioted  to  general  manager.  A 
tered  professional  engineer  in  12  states, 

a  member  of  ASME,  the  Western 
ety  of  Engineers,  and  the  National 
ety  of  Professional  Engineers. 


147 


eith  Mclntyre  has  retired  from  A.T.&T. 
sntly  he  runs  his  own  TV  and  hi  fi 
less  at  his  home  in  White  Plains,  N.Y. 


»43 


iur  Grazulis,  a  professional  engineer  in 
•tate  of  Ohio,  is  presently  a  senior 
jment  engineer  at  Diamond  Shamrock  in 
?land. 


Leslie  Davis  holds  the  post  of  regional 
manager  of  mining  chemicals  at  Cyanamid  in 
Tucson,  Arizona.  .  .  .  Robert  Maass  is  a 
project  director  at  Exxon  Research  & 
Engineering  Co.  in  Florham  Park,  N.J. 


1945 


At  the  44th  annual  meeting  of  the 
Northeastern  Lumber  Manufacturers 
Association  in  June,  Wilbur  Hammond  was 
appointed  representative  to  the  American 
Lumber  Standards  Committee  and  director  of 
the  National  Forest  Products  Association, 
Washington,  D.C.  Hammond  is  the  owner  of 
Thomas  Hammond  &  Son,  East  Hiram,  Me. 


1946 


Walter  Hatch  holds  the  post  of  senior 
engineering  associate  at  Exxon  Research  & 
Engineering  in  Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  Allan 
Johnson  was  recently  elected  a  vice 
president  and  director  of  American  Protection 
Insurance  Company,  a  Kemper  Corporation 
subsidiary.  He  manages  Kemper's  Highly 
Protected  (HPR)  Department  and  is  an.HPR 
officer.  He  is  also  a  senior  vice  president  of 
another  corporation  subsidiary,  the  Kemper 
International  Insurance  Company.  Earlier  he 
had  been  with  Factory  Insurance  Association 
in  Hartford. 

Richard  Anschutz  has  been  appointed 
vice  president  of  advanced  systems  and 
programs  in  the  government  products 
division  of  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Group,  a 
subsidiary  of  United  Technologies  in  West 
Palm  Beach,  Fla.  The  company  is  the  world's 
principal  manufacturer  of  aircraft  engines. 
Anschutz  joined  Pratt  &  Whitney  29  years 
ago  as  a  test  engineer.  Prior  to  his  most 
recent  promotion,  he  headed  the 
management  systems  department.  He 
directed  the  engine  program  for  the  F-16 
fighter  and  was  program  manager  for  the 
RL10,  the  world's  first  hydrogen-fueled  rocket 
engine. 

Charles  Mitchell,  general  partner  of 
Mitchell,  Hoilman  &  Associates  in  Boston, 
has  been  selected  for  membership  in  the 
Golden  Scale  Council.  The  council 
"recognizes,  encourages,  and  supports  high 
professional  standards  of  service  within  the 
securities  industry."  Previously,  Mitchell,  who 
helped  found  Mitchell,  Hoilman  in  1975,  has 
served  as  regional  manager  of  Westamerica 
Financial  Corporation  and  as  securities  and 
investment  instructor  for  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Education.  He  was  also 
associated  with  Geophysics  Corporation, 
Dictograph  Products,  Dempsey  Tegler  Co., 
and  Hayden-Stone. 


1948 


Clark  Poland  was  recently  promoted  to  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  consumer 
towel  and  tissue  products  at  American  Can 
Co.  He  became  associated  with  the  company 
in  1971  as  vice  president  of  operations 
development.  Formerly  he  was  with  Howard 
Johnson  and  General  Foods. 


7557 


Still  with  Texaco,  Halsey  Griswold  is  now 
world-wide  crude  oil  coordinator  for  the  firm 
in  New  York  City. 


7552 


The  Rev.  Richard  H.  Englund  now  serves  at 
Trinity  Lutheran  Church  in  Chambersburg, 
Pa. 


1953 


Philip  Charron  has  been  named  the  new 
general  manager  of  Wing  Archery  in 
Jacksonville,  Texas.  Wing,  now  under  the 
Head  division  of  AMF,  will  manufacture  a 
new  type  of  wood  composite  tennis  racket 
at  the  Jacksonville  plant.  It  will  also  continue 
the  production  of  bows  and  arrows  for  an 
international  market.  Earlier  Charron  had  been 
plant  manager  for  the  Rochester  Button  Co. 
of  Wellsville,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Richard  Davis, 
president  of  the  Thermos  Division  at  King- 
Seeley  Thermos  Company,  Norwich,  Conn., 
was  recently  elected  a  director  of  the  Chelsea 
Savings  Bank.  He  is  a  United  Way  of  Eastern 
Connecticut  director  and  is  associated  with 
the  Explorer  program  of  the  Boy  Scouts. 


7555 


Bruce  Sealy  has  left  Control  Data  after 
fifteen  years  to  become  a  marketing 
representative  for  COMTEN  in  St.  Louis,  Mo. 
He  is  setting  up  a  new  sales  office  in 
St.  Louis. 


7555 


Robert  Delahunt  is  now  a  vice  president  at 
Polaroid. 


7557 


Allyn  Hemenway,  Jr.  serves  as  an 
environmental  scientist  for  the  Energy 
Research  &  Development  Administration  in 
Washington,  D.C. 


7555 


Edward  Fraser  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
navigation  systems  at  Develco,  Inc.  in 
Sunnyvale,  Calif. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  19 


Charles 
Amidon's 
Little 
Big  Top! 


Charles  H.  Amidon,  '39  has  a  favorite 
memory.  The  time  is  the  late  1930's  and 
the  place  is  Clinton,  Massachusetts.  His 
grandfather  and  he  are  watching  a 
spine-tingling  acrobatic  act  during  a 
performance  of  the  Kay  Brothers 
Circus. 

"One  of  the  acrobats  was  Burt 
Lancaster,"  says  Amidon.  "Long 
before  he  became  a  big  name  in  the 
movies." 

Amidon,  who  has  been  a  circus  buff 
for  about  as  long  as  he  can  remember, 
still  goes  to  several  circuses  a  year,  and 
although  he  hasn't  spotted  any  budding 
Burt  Lancasters  of  late,  continues  to 
find  the  big  top  fascinating. 

"The  acrobatics  and  horse  acts  are 
the  best,"  he  confides.  His  wife,  Eva, 
enthusiastically  agrees. 

Amidon,  it  turns  out,  is 
considerably  more  than  a  circus 
spectator.  He  gets  totally  involved. 
Recently,  while  doing  research  on 
America's  first  circus  (circa  1793),  he 
decided  to  build  a  complete  scale  model, 
all  the  way  from  the  performers  and 
animals  down  to  the  fruit  and  cookies 
sold  by  the  strolling  vendors.  The  model 
was  on  display  in  the  Worcester  Public 
Library  in  July. 

As  far  as  he  knows,  his  is  the  only 
scale  model  of  the  first  American  circus. 
He  is  one  of  about  500  members  of  the 
National  Organization  of  Circus 
Modelers,  and  so  far  no  one  other  than 
he  has  claimed  to  have  modeled  that 
first  circus. 

"It  wasn't  easy  deciding  what  to  put 
in  the  model,"  Amidon  admits.  "There 
are  virtually  no  circus  drawings  from 
that  period.  I  had  to  depend  almost 
entirely  on  written  descriptions,  the  best 
of  which  remained  unpublished  for  160 
years." 

Amidon  ultimately  had  to  depend  on 
his  own  ingenuity.  He  wrote  a  research 
article  on  the  Ricketts  Circus,  reportedly 
the  lirst  American  circus,  once  attended 
by  George  Washington  in  Philadelphia. 

"It  was  pretty  much  a  one-man 
show,"  he  reports.  "Bill  Ricketts,  a 
young  Scotsman  did  trick  riding,  while  a 
couple  of  other  performers  did  tumbling 
and  comedy  acts." 

Amidon's  research  articles  on  the 
Ricketts  (ircus  appeared  in  Bandwagon, 
the  magazine  <>l  the  national  (ircus 

Historical  Society.  He  not  only  wrote 
the  article,  he  also  illustrated  it,  putting 
'■  orcesicr  Art  Museum  background 


into  play.  (He  took  drawing  there,  part 
time,  for  eight  years.) 

While  a  student  at  WPI,  he  made  a 
model  of  a  contemporary  truck  circus 
which  became  well  known  in  the 
Worcester  area.  "Back  then  railroad- 
type  circuses  were  the  most  colorful, 
particularly  those  which  carried  a  street 
parade,"  he  says. 

At  the  moment,  Amidon's  main 
interest  lies  in  the  hoopla  of  the  early 
days.  His  latest  project  is  to  follow  the 
route  of  an  1841  wagon  circus  through 
New  England,  up  to  New  Brunswick, 
and  down  through  New  York  state. 
With  an  old  circus  performer's  diary  in 
hand,  plus  old  copies  of  local 
newspapers  en  route,  he  plans  to  write  a 
Story  about  the  trip. 

"It  was  the  great  expense  of  moving 
heavy  equipment  and  the  constant 
putting  up  and  taking  down  of  the  tents 


which  caused  the  demise  of  the  railroad 
circus,"  Amidon  says.  "Do  you  know 
that  in  1956,  the  last  year  Ringling 
traveled  by  train,  that  the  daily  expense 
exceeded  $20,000!" 

Charles  Amidon  knows  about  the 
problems  of  moving  heavy  equipment 
from  his  own  professional  experience.  / 
mechanical  engineer,  he  helps  companie 
rearrange  machinery  for  more  efficient 
production. 

"My  work  is  akin  to  that  of  the 
circus  people  who  put  their  tents  up  anc 
take  them  down,"  he  explains.  "Of 
course  they  don't  do  that  so  much  any 
more.  Most  of  the  big  circuses  are  now 
being  held  in  indoor  arenas."  He  looks 
thoughtful.  "Today's  circuses  arc  still 
good,"  he  says.  "But  without  the  big 
top,  some  of  that  old-time  flavor  is 
gone." 


20  WPI  Journal 


#%t  uu  rone, 

s  a  Mechanical  Engineer,  you 
an  look  forward  to  all  the 
pportunities  you  can  handle! 


-Al  Dobbins 


Al  Dobbins  is  a  BSME  from  Michigan.  Four  years  ago 
ined  Du  Pont's  Textile  Fibers  Department.  A  year  later 
came  a  First  Line  Supervisor  in  our  Kevlar®  Aramid 
s  operation,  and  now  he's  a  Process  Engineer 
ing  on  engineering  development  problems 
ected  with  Teflon®  fluorocarbon  fiber. 

Al's  story  is  typical  of  Mechanical,  Chemical, 
rical,  and  Civil  Engineers  who  choose  careers 
i  Pont.  We  place  no  limits  on  the  progress 
leers  can  make,  regardless  of  their  specific 
ees.  And,  we  place  no  limits  on  the  contribu- 
they  can  make— to  themselves,  to  the 
pany,  and  to  the  society  in  which  we  all  live. 

So,  if  it's  advancement  opportunities  you're 
and  if  you'd  like  to  work  for  a  company  that 
t  place  limits  on  your  progress,  do  what  Al 
)ins  did.  Talk  with  the  Du  Pont  Personnel 
ssentative  who  visits  your  campus.  Or,  write  direct  to 
ont  Company,  Room  24798,  Wilmington,  DE  19898 

j  Pont. .  .there's  a  world  of  things 
:an  do  something  about. 


«G  USPAraTM  off 

Opportunity  Employer.  M/  F 


lournal  I  October  1976    21 


7555 


Roger  Kuenzel  is  the  vice  president  of 
Callahan  Engineer  Associates  in  Wilkes-Barre, 
Pa.  The  firm  is  presently  concerned  with 
street  and  sewer  restoration  following  the 
1972  flood  damage  caused  by  Hurricane 
Agnes.  Reportedly,  three  billion  dollars  worth 
of  damage  was  sustained  in  the  area.  .  .  . 
Roger  Miller,  who  was  ordained  a  deacon  in 
the  Episcopal  Church  last  June,  is  currently 
an  assistant  at  Trinity  Episcopal  Church  in 
Vero  Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  Michael  Saunders  has 
joined  Harza  Engineering  Co.  in  Chicago. 


1960 


Continuing  with  Polaroid,  William  Aitken 
now  holds  the  position  of  quality  control 
manager.  ...  Dr.  Robert  Bearse  serves  as  a 
professor  and  associate  dean  at  the 
University  of  Kansas  in  Lawrence.  .  .  .  James 
Buchanan  is  presently  a  senior  staff 
economic  specialist  at  Shell  Oil  Company  in 
Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  John  O'Connell  works 
as  a  project  manager  at  H.K.  Ferguson  Co.  in 
Cleveland,  Ohio. 

Dr.  Robert  A.  Condrate,  and  Mrs. 
Condrate  have  been  named  associates  in  a 
program  sponsored  by  the  Danforth 
Foundation  designed  to  encourage  the 
"humanizing  of  the  learning  experience  at 
colleges  and  universities."  Dr.  Condrate  is 
associate  professor  of  spectroscopy  at  the 
New  York  State  College  of  Ceramics,  Alfred 
(N.Y.)  University.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Basic  Science  Division  of  the  American 
Ceramic  Society  and  the  Ceramic  Education 
Council.  During  the  six-year  term,  the 
Condrates  will  work  toward  improving 
student-faculty  relations  and  the  teaching- 
learning  process. 


1961 


Married:  Yesugey  Oktay  and  Miss  Shirley 
McMahon  on  July  4,  1976  in  Duxbury, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Oktay  graduated  from 
Middlebury  College  and  Boston  University 
School  of  Medicine.  She  teaches  pediatrics  at 
Harvard  University  and  Beth  Israel  Hospital, 
Boston.  Her  husband  graduated  from  Robert 
College,  Istanbul,  later  receiving  his  master's 
degree  from  WPI.  He  is  associated  with 
Badger-American,  Inc.  and  also  teaches 
structural  engineering  at  Northeastern 
University. 

Richard  Andrews  works  as  program 
manager  for  Environmental  Research  & 
Technology,  Inc.  in  Concord,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  Blanchard  is  a  senior  construction 
engineer  at  Fluor  Engineers  &  Constructors  in 
Los  Angeles.  Currently  he  is  on  assignment  in 
the  Orient  Stephen  Brody  is  a 

manufacturing  engineer  at  Torin  Corp.  in 
Torrington,  Conn.  .  .  .  George  Durnin,  SIM, 
has  been  appointed  personnel  manager  of 

..n  Hospital  in  Worcester.  He  was  one 
of  the  first  personnel  managers  in  New 
England  to  receive  accreditation  in  executive 
and  personnel  management  and  is  the 
hospital's  first  full  time  director  of  personnel 


and  employe  relations.  Also,  he  has  been  an 
instructor  in  personnel  management  at 
Worcester  Junior  College  and  Anna  Maria 
College.  For  18  years  he  was  personnel 
manager  at  Rexnord,  Inc.  and  for  ten  years 
he  was  director  of  personnel  at  Riley  Stoker. 

Dr.  Jay  Fox  has  been  nominated  for  the 
Army  Research  and  Development  Award  by 
the  U.S.  Army  Mobility  Equipment  Research 
and  Development  Command  at  Ft.  Belvoir, 
Va.  Twice  previously  he  was  nominated  for 
the  Commander's  Award  for  Scientific 
Achievement.  .  .  .  James  Kachadorian  has 
started  his  own  business,  Green  Mountain 
Homes,  Inc.,  in  Royalton,  Vt.  His  panelized 
homes  will  be  marketed  throughout  the 
eastern  U.S.  and  feature  a  unique  solar 
design  which  utilizes  the  entire  home  as  a 
solar  unit  that  both  collects  solar  heat  and 
stores  it  for  chilly  days.  The  system  is  also 
reversible,  allowing  the  house  to  cool  itself  in 
summer.  .  .  .  David  Lawrence  is  an 
investment  officer  at  Bay  Bank  Merchants,  in 
New  Bedford,  Mass. 

William  Montgomery  is  the  president  of 
a  new  company,  American  Engineering  & 
Testing,  Inc.,  which  recently  opened  in  South 
Hingham,  Mass.  The  company  tests  concrete, 
masonry  products,  soils,  and  other 
construction  materials  and  offers  consulting 
engineering  services  to  the  industry  for 
quality  control  and  inspection  of  construction 
procedures.  Montgomery  was  formerly  vice 
president  of  Briggs  Engineering  &  Testing 
Co.,  Inc.  An  active  member  in  the 
Massachusetts  Construction  Industry  Board, 
he  also  belongs  to  the  American  Concrete 
Institute,  the  Massachusetts  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers,  and  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 


1962 

John  Tufano  is  division  manager  at  PECO 
Enterprises,  Inc.,  in  East  Moline,  Illinois. 


7564 


1963 


After  eight  years  with  New  York  Telephone, 
James  Daily  has  left  to  take  a  position  with 
American  Bell  International,  Inc.  Currently  he 
is  a  consultant  to  the  Telecommunications 
Co.  of  Iran,  a  government  owned  and 
operated  enterprise.  He,  his  wife,  Jean,  son 
James,  10,  and  daughter  Janet,  8,  reside  in 
Tehran  and  find  "this  part  of  the  world 
fascinating."  .  .  .  Richard  Garvais  has  joined 
Wilson  Sporting  Goods  in  Cortland,  N.Y., 
where  he  is  manager  of  technical  services. 
.  .  .  James  Kelly,  Jr.  now  works  as  a  sales 
engineer  for  Processing  Equipment  Co.  in 
Orchard  Park,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Marvin  Woodilla  has 
been  making  wooden  fifes  for  the 
Bicentennial. 


J.  Michael  Anderson  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  promotional  programs  at 
Continental  Can  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Stil, 
with  Boeing  Aerospace  Co.,  Robert 
Bridgman  now  serves  as  a  senior  enginee 
Seattle,  Washington.  .  .  .  Edward  Brabaz 
works  as  a  senior  power  engineer  at  Stone 
Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Currently  Robert 
Drean  is  general  manager  at  Once  Upon  a 
Stage  in  Orlando,  Fla.  .  .  .  Clark  Gesswei 
a  telecommunications  officer,  is  presently  i 
Monrovia,  Liberia  with  the  Diplomatic 
Telecommunications  Service  of  the  U.S. 
Dept.  of  State.  He  is  involved  in  providing 
telecommunications  support  to  U.S. 
diplomatic  missions  in  Africa.  .  .  .  Alfred 
Hemingway  is  now  with  Bryan  &  Bollo  in 
Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  William  Ingalls  work 
as  planning  supervisor  at  New  England 
Telephone  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  George 
Whiteside  holds  the  position  of  principal 
engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.  He  designed  the  shutter  of  the  new 
Pronto  camera. 


7565 


Walter  Chang  has  been  appointed  by  the 
mayor  of  Fall  River,  Mass.  as  a  new  memb 
of  the  Industrial  Commission.  Chang  is 
president  of  Chang  &  Chang,  Inc.  of  Bosto 
an  exporter  of  manufacturing  equipment.  I- 
is  also  associated  with  the  China  Royal 
Restaurant  and  serves  as  an  advance  jet 
engine  system  engineer  for  General  Electric 
.  .  .  Currently  Jordan  Dern  is  employed  as 
project  specialist  in  planning  at  Koppers  Cc 
Inc.  in  Pittsburgh.  .  .  .  Francis  Pinhack  ho 
the  post  of  safety  chief  with  the  Air  Force 
Reserve  at  Pittsburgh  (Pa.)  Airport.  ...  Dr. 
David  Sawicki    has  been  appointed  reviev 
editor  of  the  Journal  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Planners  at  the  University  of 
Wisconsin  in  Milwaukee.  Earlier  he  had 
served  as  assistant  dean  of  the  School  of 
Architecture  and  Urban  Planning  at  the 
university,  and  then  as  chairman  of  the 
Department  of  Urban  Planning.    .  .   The 
Small  Business  Institute  recently  gave  Rog 
Williams  a  national  honorable  mention 
award  for  a  study  he  participated  in  on 
AuriNil  Industries  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  in  19" 
while  doing  graduate  work  at  WPI.  He  is  nc 
with  G.E.'s  mechanical  drive  turbine 
department  in  Fitchburg.  .  .  .  Ronald  Woo 
has  received  his  MBA  from  the  University  c 
South  Alabama.  He  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Ingalls  Shipbuilding  division  in  Pascagoula, 
Miss. 


1966 


Raymond  D'Ambra  is  chairman  of  the 
science  department  for  the  Johnston,  (R.I.) 
school  department.  .  .  .  Steve  Erhard  work 
for  GTE  Laboratories  in  Waltham,  Mass.  . . 
John  Gilbert  has  received  his  doctor  of 
jurisprudence  cum  laude  from  Western  Nev 
England  College,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  AlsJ 
earning  graduate  degrees  are  Anson  Mora 
who  received  his  master's  from  Occidental 
College,  Los  Angeles,  and  Joseph  Pastic, 


22  WPI  Journal 


i  earned  his  MBA  from  the  University  of 
m.  . .  .  Donald  Petersen,  Jr.  is  a 
keting  support  representative  for  IBM  in 
hersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  Robert  Trefry  works 
cost  engineer  at  Brown  &  Root  in 
iston,  Texas. 


167 


r.  to  William  E.  Tanzer,  '67  and  Judith 
son  Tanzer  a  daughter,  Amy,  on  July  8, 
3.  Bill  is  employed  at  Eastman  Gelatine 
p.,  Peabody,  Mass.  (Judy  was  formerly 
>loyed  in  public  relations  at  WPI.) 
oseph  Janikas  has  been  appointed 
iway  superintendent  in  Turners  Falls, 
is.  Previously  he  had  been  with  the 
artment  of  public  works  in  Greenfield.  .  . 
in  Kuenzler,  a  senior  application  sales 
ineer  with  the  Foxboro  (Mass.) 
npany's  Metals  Industry  Division,  was 
-lor  of  "Combustion  Control  Techniques 
Efficient  Fuel  Usage"  which  appeared  in 
May  issue  of  The  Glass  Industry.  .  .  . 
jrles  Proctor  owns  and  operates  the 
iba  Shoppe,  Inc.  in  Stratford,  Conn. 


968 


ried:  William  J.  Giokas  and  Miss 
jinia  M.  Case  in  Chicopee,  Massachusetts 
June  26,  1976.  The  bride  graduated  from 
stfield  State  College  and  is  an  art  teacher 
ne  Chicopee  school  system.  The  groom,  a 
Juate  of  Western  New  England  College  of 
/,  is  a  practicing  attorney  in  Chicopee. 
urt  Benson  was  recently  awarded  the 
ree  of  Juris  Doctor,  cum  laude,  from 
folk  University.  .  .  .  John  Burns  has  also 
lived  a  Juris  Doctor,  his  having  been 
rded  by  the  University  of  San  Diego 
ool  of  Law.  .  .  .  Neil  Durkee  is  the  new 
eral  manager  of  Bear-Tex  operations  for 
ton  Company's  Coated  Abrasive  Division 
roy,  N.Y.  He  joined  Norton  two  years  ago 
financial  analyst  for  the  division.  Earlier 
vas  a  project  engineer  for  the  Torrington 
in.)  Co.  .  .  .  Don  Holden  holds  the  post 
lanager  of  engineering  at  Goodyear  Tire 
ubber  in  Mount  Pleasant,  Iowa.  .  .  .  Jack 
Cabe  has  been  named  vice  president  of 
lufacturing  for  Carl  Gordon  Industries, 
He  will  be  responsible  for  all 
lufacturing  operations  at  Carl  Gordon 
istries  and  its  Hammond  Plastics,  Oxford 
;tics,  and  Fox  Specialty  Co.  divisions.  He 
ed  the  company  in  1970.  ...  Dr.  Louis 
ang  recently  accepted  a  post  doctorate 
arch  position  with  the  Boston  Bio- 
Jical  Research  Institute.  The  institute  is 
iated  with  the  Massachusetts  General 
■pital,  MIT,  and  Harvard  University.  Dr. 
>ng  will  be  involved  in  research  of  the 
rt  muscles. 


969 


rried:  Michael  J.  Cohen  to  Cheryl  F. 
isman  on  July  11,  1976  in  Bloomfield, 
inecticut.  The  bride  is  a  PhD  candidate  in 
nch  at  the  University  of  Connecticut.  The 
■  om,  who  received  his  master's  in 
nputer  science  from  RPI,  is  a  marketing 
resentative  for  the  Boston  office  of 
entific  Time  Sharing  Corporation, 

hesda,  Md. 

; 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


Gregory  Enz  is  currently  a  project 
engineer  for  New  England  Telephone  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Lt.  David 
Manchester,  U.S.A.F.  is  a  weapons  system 
officer  flying  an  F-4  Phantom  out  of 
Spangdahlem,  Germany.  .  .  .  Capt.  Douglas 
Nelson  has  entered  the  Air  Force  Institute  of 
Technology  to  study  for  a  master's  degree  in 
aeronautical  engineering.  The  Institute  is 
located  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB,  Ohio.  .  .  . 
Richard  Palm  serves  as  a  senior  software 
specialist  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in 
Waltham,  Mass. 


1970 


Herbert  Coulter  works  as  a  facilities 
engineer  for  General  Electric  Silicone  in 
Waterford,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Clark  Knickerbocker 
was  awarded  his  MBA  from  Canisius  College 
in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  last  May.  He  is  an  account 
manager  at  the  Hooker  Chemical  Company  in 
Niagara  Falls.  .  .  .  David  Lawton  holds  the 
post  of  regional  sales  manager  at 
Carborundum,  Filters  Division,  in  Lebanon, 
Indiana.  . .  .  James  Lockwood  is  now 
marketing  supervisor  for  water  treatment 
chemicals  at  Allied  Chemical  in  Morristown, 
N.J.  The  Lockwoods  have  a  son,  James  Paul, 
born  on  June  8,  1976.  .  .  .  Jethalal  Makati 
is  employed  by  the  Hartford  (Conn.)  Board  of 
Education.  .  .  .  Robert  Markot  has  received 
a  doctor  of  philosophy  degree  in  mathematics 
from  Ohio  State  University,  where  he 
specialized  in  group  theory.  He  belongs  to  Pi 
Mu  Epsilon  and  the  American  Mathematical 
Society.  .  .  .  Charles  Pickett,  Jr.  serves  as  a 
plant  engineer  at  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Lab. 
in  West  Milton,  N.Y. 


7577 


Married:  Robert  C.  Blaisdell  and  Miss 
Veronica  A.  Sarausky  on  May  28,  1976  in 
Bethlehem,  New  Hampshire.  Mrs.  Blaisdell, 
an  ensign  in  the  Navy  Nurse  Corps, 
graduated  from  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire.  Her  husband  is  an  economist 
with  New  England  Electric  System.  .  .  . 
Gregory  A.  Taylor  and  Miss  Rita  FairCloth 
on  June  27  in  Knoxville,  Tennessee.  The 
bride  is  a  graduate  of  Widener  College, 
Chester,  Pa.  The  groom  is  employed  by 
United  Engineers  and  Constructors. 

Paul  Ash,  a  member  of  the  Newton 
(Mass.)  School  Committee,  will  be  studying 
full  time  this  fall  at  Harvard  Graduate  School 
of  Education.  He  will  be  on  a  leave  of 
absence  from  the  Dover-Sherborn  regional 
school  system  where  he  is  a  chemistry 
teacher.  He  is  past  president  of  the  Dover- 
Sherborn  Teachers'  Association.  This  year  he 
was  a  delegate  to  the  Massachusetts 
Teachers  Association's  annual  meeting.  . . . 
Dan  Donahue  works  for  Koretsky  King  in 
San  Francisco,  Calif  ....  Stephen  Douglas 
is  a  project  engineer  at  Foster-Miller  Assoc, 
Inc.,  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kevin 
O'Connell  holds  the  post  of  fire  protection 
engineer  at  Factory  Mutual  Engineering  in 
Jericho,  Long  Island,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Alfred 
Scaramelli  serves  as  a  research  engineer  at 
Westuaco  Research  Center  in  North 
Charleston,  S.C.  The  Scaramellis  have  a  year- 
old-daughter,  Nicole.  .  .  .  Raymond 
Skowyra,  Jr.  recently  received  his  MBA 
from  Harvard  University.  He  has  accepted  a 
position  with  GE  in  Fairfield,  Conn. 


7572 


Married:  Thomas  Mueller  and  Miss  Miranda 
Tracy  on  May  22,  1976  in  Worcester.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Doherty  Memorial  High 
School,  Worcester.  The  bridegroom  is  with 
the  Anaconda  Metal  Hose  Division  at 
American  Brass. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  I  23 


were  JOOKing  ior  certain  majors 

to  become  Lieutenants. 


Mechanical  and  Civil  Engineering  majors. .  .Aero- 
space and  Aeronautical  Engineering  majors. ..  majors 
in  Electronics .  .  .  Computer  Science .  . .  Mathematics. 

The  Air  Force  needs  men  and  women...  many  with 
the  above  academic  majors.  And  Air  Force  ROTC  has 
two  programs  for  your  selection ..  .a  four-year  and  a 
two-year  program.  Both  leading  to  an  Air  Force  offi- 
cer's commission,  plus  advanced  education.  There  are 
also  four-year,  three-year,  and  two-year  scholarships 
available,  all  paying  full  tuition,  plus  $100  a  month 
while  on  scholarship  status.  Interested?  If  you  qualify, 
Air  Force  ROTC  could  be  just  the  place  where  you  can 
put  it  all  together.  See  the  adjoining  page  for  partici- 
pating schools.  Or  send  in  the  coupon. 

AIR  FORCE  ROTC 


Air  Force  ROTC  G  2  EC 

P.O.  Box  AF 
Peoria,  II  616)4 

Yes,  I'm  interested  in  Air  Force  ROTC.  I  understand  there  is 
no  obligation. 


.  Sex  M  □  F  □ 


City_ 


Zip- 


High  School  Graduation  Dote 


College  Planning  to  Attend:  (I  )_ 

(2) (3)_ 

I  i  I'-sire  immediate  contact 
information  only 


information  only 

GATEWAY  TO  A  GREATW^OTUFe" 


24  WPI  Journal 


JB 


where  you'll  find  Air  Force  ROTC. 


lUMIM 

Auburn  University,  Auburn  36830 
University  of  Alabama,  University  35486 
Samford  University,  Birmingham  35209 
+  Jefferson  State  Jr  College,  Birmingham 

35215  (CMC  only) 
+  Lawson  State  Jr  College,  Birmingham 

35221  (CMC  only) 

*  Miles  College.  Birmingham  35208 

-r  University  of  Alabama,  Birmingham, 

University  Station  35294 
+  University  of  Montevallo,  Montevallo 

35115 
lusKegee  Institute.  Tuskegee  36088 
Troy  State  University,  Troy  36081 
Alabama  State  University,  Montgomery 

36101 
+  Auburn  University  of  Montgomery, 

Montgomery  36109  - 

*  Huntingdon  College,  Montgomery  36106 

ARIZONA 

University  of  Arizona.  Tucson  85721 

+  Pima  Community  College.  Tucson  85709 

GMC  onlyj 
Arizona  State  University,  Tempe  B5281 
4  Glendale  Community  College.  Glendale 

85301  (GMC  only) 
4  Mesa  Community  College,  Mesa  85222 

(GMC  only) 
+  rhoenn  College,  Phoenix  85013 

(GMC  only) 

-  Scottsdale  Community  College  85251 
(GMC  only) 

Northern  Arizona  University,  Flagstaff 
86001 

ARKANSAS 

University  ot  Arkansas,  Fayetteville  72701 

CALIFORNIA 

California  State  University.  Fresno  93740 
Loyola  Marymount  University,  Los  Angeles 
90045 

*  Cypress  College.  Cypress  90630 
(GMC  only) 

+  East  Los  Angeles  College.  Los  Angeles 

90022  (GMC  only) 
f  El  Cammo  College,  El  Camino  90506 

(GMC  only) 
■»  Fullerton  College.  Fullerton  92634 

(GMC  only) 
+  Los  Angeles  City  College.  Los  Angeles 

90029  (GMC  only) 

*  Los  Angeles  Harbor  College,  Wilmington 
90744  (GMC  only) 

-  Los  Angeles  Pierce,  Woodland  Hills 
91360  (GMC  only) 

*  Los  Angeles  SW  College,  Los  Angeles 
90047  (GMC  only) 

+  Los  Angeles  Trade  Tech  College, 

Los  Angeles  90015  (GMC  only) 
+  Los  Angeles  Valley  College,  Van  Nuys 

91401  (GMC  only) 
+  Marymount  Palos  Verdes  College,  Palos 

Verdes  Peninsula  90274 
+  Mount  St  Mary  s  College,  Los  Angeles 

90049 
+  Northrop  Institute  of  Technology, 

Inglewood  90306 
+  Santa  Monica  College.  Santa  Monica 

30406  (CMC  only) 

*  West  Los  Angeles  College.  Culver  City 
90230  iGMC  only) 

San  Jose  State  University.  San  Jose  95114 
University  of  California.  Los  Angeles, 

Los  Angeles  90024 
University  of  Southern  California,  Los 

Angeles  90007 
+  Cal  Lutheran  College,  Thousand  Oaks 

91360 

*  Cal  State  University  at  Fullerton, 
Fullerton  92631 

*  Cal  State  University  at  Los  Angeles, 
Los  Angeles  90032 

-  Cal  State  University  at  Long  Beach, 
Long  Beach  90801 

*  Cal  State  University  at  Northridge. 
Los  Angeles  91324 

-  Cal  State  College.  San  Bernardino  92407 

*  Cal  State  Polytecn  College.  Pomona 
91768 

+  Cypress  College,  Cypress  90630  (GMC 
only) 

*  East  Los  Angeles  City  College,  Los 
Angeles  90022  (GMC  onlyl 

*  El  Cam. no  College.  El  Camino  90506 
[GMC  only) 

*  Glendale  Community  College,  Glendale 
91208  (GMC  only) 

*  Long  Beach  City  College,  Long  Beach 
90808  (CMC  only) 

+  Los  Angeles  City  College,  Los  Angeles 
90029  (GMC  only. 

-  Los  Angeles  Harbor  College,  Wilmington 
90744  (GMC  only) 

*  Los  Angeles  Pierce  College.  Woodland 
Hills  91364  (GMC  only) 

-  Los  Angeles  SW  College,  Los  Angeles 
90047  iGMC  only) 

*  Los  Angeles  Trade  Tech  College.  Los 
Angeles  90015  (GMC  only) 

*  Los  Angeles  Valley  College,  van  Nuys 
91401  (GMC  only) 

*  Moorpark  College.  Moorpark  93021 
(GMC  onlyi 

-  Northrop  Institute  ot  Technology. 
Inglewood  90306 

-  Mt    San  Antonio  College,  Walnut  91789 
(GMC  onlyi 

-  Occidental  College.  Los  Angeles  90041 

-  Pasadena  City  College.  Pasadena  91106 
(GMC  only) 

*  Pepperdme  University.  Los  Angeles 
90044 

*  University  of  California,  Irvine  92664 

-  Ventura  College,  Ventura  93003 
(GMC  only) 

*  west  Los  Angeles  College,  Culver  City 
90230  (GMC  only) 

*  Whitt.er  College   Whittier  90608 
San  Diego  State  University.  San  Diego 

92115 
«  Point  Loma  College.  San  Diego  92106 
San  Francisco  State  University.  San 

Francisco  94132 

*  City  College  of  San  Francisco.  San 
Francisco  94112  (GMC  only) 

*  Golden  Gate  University.  San  Francisco 
94106 

*  Umv  of  Cal,  Hastings  College  of  Law. 
San  Francisco  94102 

+  Lone  Mountain  College,  San  Francisco 
94118 

-  Un.v  of  Cal,  San  Francisco  94122 

*  Un.v  of  San  Francisco,  San  Francisco 
94117 

University  of  California  at  Berkeley. 
Berkeley  94720 

*  Cal  State  University  at  Hayward. 
Hayward  9454p 

*  Contra  Costa  College,  San  Pablo  94806 
IGMC  onlyl 

*  Diablo  Valley  College.  Pleasant  Hill 
94523  (GMC  only) 

COLORAOO 
I     Colorado  State  University,  Fort  Collins 
80521 
University  of  Northern  Colorado,  Greeley 

80639 
Un.vers.ly  of  Colorado    Boulder  80302 
:     *  Metropolitan  State  College,  Denver 
80204 

-  Regis  College   Denver  80221 

*  University  of  Colorado,  Denver  80203 
<  University  of  Denver,  Denver  80210 


CONNECTICUT 

University  of  Connecticut,  Storrs  06268 

*  Central  Connecticut  State,  New  Britain 
06050 

+  Eastern  Connecticut  State,  Willimantic 
06226 

DISTRICT  OF  COLUMBIA 

Howard  University,  Washington  20001 

*  American  University.  Washington  20016 
+  DC.  Teachers*  College,  Washington 

20009 
4  Federal  City  College,  Washington  20005 
+  Gallaudet  College,  Washington  20002 
■*-  Georgetown  University.  Washington 

20007 
+  George  Washington  University.  Wash- 
ington 20006 
-»  The  Catholic  University  of  America, 

Washington  20017 
+  Trinity  College,  Washington  20017 

FLORIDA 

Florida  State  University.  Tallahassee  32306 

+  Florida  A&M  University.  Tallahassee 

32601 
University  ot  Florida.  Gainesville  32601 
University  ol  Miami.  P.O.  Box  8164. 

Coral  Gables  33124 

*  Miami-Dade  Community  College,  Miami 
33156  IGMC  only) 

Embry. Riddle  Aeronautical  University. 

Daytona  Beach  32015 
Florida  Technological  University,  Orlando 

32816 
-i-  Lake-Sumter  Communily  College, 

Leesburg  32748  (GMC  only) 
4  Seminole  Junior  College,  banford  32771 

(GMC  only) 
4  Valencia  Community  College,  Orlando 

32811  (GMC  only) 

GEORGIA 

University  of  Georgia,  Athens  30601 
Georgia  Institute  of  Technology,  Atlanta 
30332 

*  Georgia  State  University,  Atlanta  30303 

*  Morehouse  College.  Atlanta  30314 

*  Southern  Tech,  Marietta  30060 
Valdosta  State  College,  Valdosta  31601 

HAWAII 

University  of  Hawaii.  Honolulu  96822 
+  Chammade  College  ol  Honolulu, 
Honolulu  96816 

IDAHO 

University  of  Idaho,  Moscow  83843 

ILLINOIS 

Bradley  University.  Peoria  61606 
University  of  Illinois.  Urbana  61801 
+  Parkland  College,  champaign  61820 

(GMC  only) 
Illinois  Institute  of  Technology,  Chicago 

60616 

*  Chicago  Kent  College  of  Law,  Chicago 
6060b 

*  Elmhurst  College,  Elmhurst  60126 
+  John  Marshall  Law  School,  Chicago 

60604 

*  Kennedy-King  College.  Chicago  60621 
(GMC  only) 

<  Lewis  University,  Lockport  60441 

+  Loop  College,  Chicago  60601  (GMC  only) 

+  Malcolm  X  College,  Chicago  60612 

(GMC  only) 
4  Maytair  College,  Chicago,  60630  (GMC 

only) 

*  Olive-Harvey  College,  Chicago  60028 
(GMC  only) 

*  Saint  Xavier  College,  Chicago  60655 
+  Southwest  College.  Chicago  60652 

(GMC  only) 
+  Triton  College.  River  Grove  60171 

(GMC  only) 
4  University  of  Illinois  at  Chicago  Circle. 

Chicago  60680 
+  Wright  College,  Chicago  60634  (GMC 

only) 
Southern  Illinois  University.  Carbondale 

62901 
Southern  Illinois  University  at  Edwards- 

ville,   Edwardsville  62025 

*  Belleville  Area  College,  Belleville  62221 
(GMC  only) 

*  McKendree  College.  Lebanon  62254 
Parks  College.  Cahokia  62206 

+  Harris  Teachers'  College.  St.  Louis. 

Missouri  63103 
4  St.  Louis  University,  St.  Louis,  Missouri 

63108 

*  University  of  Missouri  at  St,  Louis, 
Missouri  63121 

*  Washington  University.  St.  Louis. 
Missouri  63130 

INDIANA 

Indiana  University.  Bloomington  47401 
Purdue  University.  Lalayette  47906 
University  of  Notre  Dame.  Notre  Dame 

46556 
4  Holy  Cross  Junior  College.  Notre  Dame 

46556  (GMC  only) 
4  Indiana  University  at  South  Bend. 

South  Bend  46615 

-  SI    Mary's  College,  Notre  Dame  46556 
University  of  Evansville,  Evansville  47702 
4  Indiana  State  University  of  Evansville. 

Evansville  47712 

IOWA 

Coe  College.  Cedar  Rapids  52402 

*  Kirkwood  Community  College,  Cedar 
Rapids  52406  IGMC  only) 

*  Mount  Mercy  College.  Cedar  Rapids 
52402 

Iowa  State  University.  Ames  50010 

-  Drake  University.  Des  Moines  50311 
University  ol  Iowa.  Iowa  City  52242 

KANSAS 

Kansas  State  University,  Manhattan  66506 
Wichita  State  University.  Wichita  67208 
The  University  of  Kansas.  Lawrence  66045 
Washburn  University,  Topeka  66621 

KENTUCKY 

University  of  Kentucky.  Lexington  40506 
4  Georgetown  College,  Georgetown  40324 
-r  Kentucky  Slate  University,  Frankfort 

4060.1 
+  Midway  College,  Midway  40347  (GMC 

only) 

*  Transylvania  University,  Lexington  40508 
University  ol  Louisville,  Louisville  40208 

»  Bellarmine  College,  Louisville  40205 
4  Indiana  University.  Southeast,  New 

Albany.  Indiana  47150 
-i  Jefferson  Community  College.  Louisville 

40201  (GMC  only) 
4  Louisville  Presbyterian  Theological 

Seminary.  Louisville  40205 
4  Southern  Baptist  Theological  Seminary. 

Louisville  40206 

-  Spalding  College.  Louisville  40203 

LOUISIANA 

Louisiana  Tech  University.  Ruston  71270 

Louisiana  State  u   and  A&M  College. 

Balon  Rouge  70803 
•   Southern  University  &  A&M  System, 

Baton  Rouge  70813 
Gramblmg  College,  Gramblmg  71245 
University  of  Southwestern  Louisiana. 

Lafayette  70501 
Tulane  University.  New  Orleans  70118 
4  Dillard  University.  New  Orleans  70122 


+  Holy  Cross  College.  New  Orleans  70114 
4  Louisiana  State  University  at  New 
Orleans,  New  Orleans  70112 

-  Loyola  University  of  New  Orleans. 
New  Orleans  70118 

4  Southern  University  in  New  Orleans. 
New  Orleans  70126 

*  Xavier  university  of  Louisiana.  New 
Orleans  70125 

Nicholls  State  University.  Thibodaux  70301 

MARYLAND 

University  ot  Maryland.  College  Park  20742 
University  of  Maryland,  eastern  Shore, 

Princess  Ann  21853 
4  Salisbury  State  College,  Salisbury  21801 

MASSACHUSETTS 

College  of  the  Holy  Cross,  Worcester  01610 
4  Assumption  College.  Worcester  01609 
4  Worcester  Stale  College,  Worcester 

01620 
Lowell  Technological  Institute,  Lowell 

01854 

-  Anna  Maria  College,  Paxton  01612 

4  Assumption  College,  Worcester  01609 
4  Becker  Junior  College,  Worcester  01609 
(GMC  only) 

-  Clark  University,  Worcester  01609 
4  Leicester  Junior  College.  Leicester 

01524  IGMC  only) 
4  Lowell  Stale  College,  Lowell  01850 
4  Quinsigamond  Community  College, 

Worcester  01606  (GMC  only) 
4  Worcester  Junior  College,  Worcester 

01608  (GMC  only) 

*  Worcester  Polytech  institute.  Worcester 
01609 

*  Worcester  State  College.  Worcester 
01602 

Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technology, 

Cambridge  02139 
University  ol  Massachusetts,  Amherst 

01002 
MICHIGAN 
Michigan  State  University,  East  Lansing 

48823 
4  Lansing  Community  College,  Lansing 

48914  (GMC  onlyl 
The  University  of  Michigan,  Ann  Arbor 

48104 
4  Eastern  Michigan  University,  Ypsilanti 

48197 
4  University  of  Michigan,  Dearborn. 

Dearborn  48128 
4  western  Michigan  University,  Kalamazoo 

49001 
Michigan  Technological   University, 

Houghlon  49931 
4  Suomi  College,  Hancock  49930  (GMC 

only) 
MINNESOTA 

The  College  ol  St.  Thomas,  St.  Paul  55105 
-i  Augsburg  College,  Minneapolis  55404 
4  College  of  St-  Catherine.  St    Paul  55105- 
r   Macalesler  College,  St    Paul  55106 
«   St.  Olal  College,  North!. eld  55057 
University  of  Minnesota.  Minneapolis 

55455 
University  of  Minnesota  at  Duluth.  Duluth 

55812 
.  College  ol  St.  Scholastica.  Duluth  55811 

*  University  ol  Wisconsin  at  Superior, 
Superior,  Wisconsin  54880 

MISSISSIPPI 

Mississippi  State  University.  State  College 

39762 
University  ol  Mississippi.  University  38677 
University  ol  Southern  Mississippi. 

Hatl.esburg  39401 

*  William  Carey  College,  Hattiesburg 
39401 

Mississippi  Valley  Slate  College,  Itta  Bena 
38941 

MISSOURI 

Southeast  Missouri  Slate  University,  Cape 

Girardeau  63701 
University  of  Missouri,  Columbia  65201 

-  Columbia  College.  Columbia  65201 
University  ol  Missouri  at  Rolla.  Rolla 

65401 
MONTANA 

Montana  State  University.  Bozeman  59715 
NEBRASKA 
University  of  Nebraska,  Lincoln  68508 

-  Concordia  Teacheis  College.  Seward 
68434 

4  Nebraska  wesleyan  University,  Lincoln 

68504 
University  ol  Nebraska  at  Omaha,  Omaha 

68101 
4  lowa  Western  Community  College, 

Council  Blulls,  lowa  51501  (GMC  only) 

NEW  HAMPSHIRE 

University  ol  New  Hampshire.  Ourham 
03824 

NEW  JERSEY 

Rutgers,  The  Stale  University.  New 
brunswick  08903 

-  Brookdale  Community  College,  Lmcrolt 
07738  (GMC  only) 

4  Mercer  County  College,  Trenton  08690 

(GMC  only) 
4  Middlesex  County  College,  Edison  08817 

(GMC  only) 
4  Monmouth  College,  west  Long  Branch 

07764 
»  Newark  State  College.  Union  07083 
4  Rider  College.  Trenton  08602 
4  Somerset  County  College,  Somerville 

08676  (GMC  only) 

*  Trenton  Stale  College.  Trenton  08625 
4  Union  College,  Cranlord  07016  (GMC 

only) 
New  Jersey  institute  of  Technology. 

Newark.07102 
4  Montclair  State  College,  Upper 

Monlclair  07043 

*  William  Paterson  College.  Wayne  07470 
Stevens  Institute  ol  Technology,  Hoboken 

07030 
4   Jersey  City  State  College,  Jersey  City 
07305 

-  St    Peters  College,  Jersey  City  07306 

NEW  MEXICO 

New  Mexico  State  University,  Las  Cruces 

88003 
4  University  of  Texas  at  El  Paso,  El  Paso, 

Texas  79968 
University  ol  New  Mexico,  Albuquerque 

87131 
4  University  of  Albuquerque.  Albuquerque 

87120 
NEW  YORK 

Cornell  University.  Ithaca  14850 
4  Ithaca  College.  Ithaca  14850 

-  SUNT  College  at  Cortland.  Cortland 
13045 

Syracuse  University,  Syracuse  13210 
4  LeMoyne  College.  Syracuse  13214 
4  lona  College.  New  Rochelle  10801 

-  SUNY.  Col  ol  Environmental  Science  & 
Forestry.  Syracuse  13210 

4  Utica  Col  of  Syracuse  University.  Utica 

13502 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Troy 

12181 

*  Albany  College  ot  Pharmacy,  Albany 
12208 

4  College  ol  St.  Rose,  Albany  12203 


4  SUNY  Empire  State  College.  Saratoga 
Springs   12866 

*  Fulton    Montgomery  Community  College, 
Johnstown  12095  (GMC  only) 

4  Hudson  Valley  Community  College.  Troy 

12180  (GMC  only) 
4  Immaculate  Conception  Seminary,  Troy 

12180 
+  Junior  College  of  Albany,  Albany  12208 

(GMC  only) 
4  Russell  Sage  College.  Troy  12180 
4  Schenectady  County  Community  College, 

Schenectady  12305  (GMC  only) 

-  Siena  College.  Loudonville  12211 

4  Skidmore  College,  Saratoga  Springs 

12866 
4  State  University  ot  New  York,  Albany 

12210 

•  Union  College.  Schenectady  12308 
Manhattan  College.  Bronx  10471 

4  College  ot  Mount  St.  Vincent.  Riverdale 
10471 

NORTH  CAROLINA 

Duke  University,  Ourham  27706 

4  North  Carolina  Central  University, 

Durham  27707 
University  ot  North  Carolina,  Chapel  Hill 

27514 
North  Carolina  State  University  at  Raleigh, 

Raleigh  27607 

•  Meredith  College,  Raleigh  27611 

i  Peace  College,  Raleigh  27602  (GMC  only) 
4  St.  Augustine's  College,  Raleigh  27611 
4  St-  Mary's  College,  Raleigh  27611 

(GMC  only) 
4  Shaw  University,  Raleigh  27602 
East  Carolina  University,  Greenville  27834 

•  Pitt  Technical  Institute.  Greenville 
27834  (GMC  only) 

North  Carolina  A&T  State  University, 

Greensboro  27411 
4  Bennett  College,  Greensboro  27420 

*  Greensboro  College.  Greensboro  27420 

-  Guiltord  College.  Greensboro  27410 

4  High  Ponit  College.  High  Point  27262 
4  University  of  North  Carolina,  Greensboro 

27412 
Fayetteville  State  University.  Fayetteville 

28301 
NORTH  OAKOTA 
North  Dakota  State  University  ol  A&AS, 

Fargo  58102 
4  Concordia  College,  Moorhead.  Minn. 

56560 
4  Moorhead  State  College.  Moorhead. 

Minn.  56560 
University  ol  North  Dakota.  Grand  Forks 

58202 
OHIO 
Bowling  Green  State  University.  Bowling 

Green  43403 
4  Bowling  Green  State  University. 

Firelands  Campus.  Huron  44839  (GMC 

only) 

*  University  of  Toledo.  Toledo  43606 
Kent  State  University,  Kent  44242 

»  Cleveland  State  University,  Cleveland 

44115 
Miami  University,  Oxford  45056 
The  Ohio  State  University,  Columbus  43201 
4  Ohio  Wesleyan  University,  Delaware 

43015 
.  Otteibein  College.  Westerville  43081 
Capital  University.  Columbus  43209 
4  Columbus  Tech  Institute.  Columbus 

43215  (GMC  only) 
'   Ohio  Dominican  College.  Columbus  43219 
Ohio  University.  Athens  45701 
The  University  of  Akron.  Akron  44325 
University  ol  Cincinnati.  Cincinnati  45221 

*  Northern  Kentucky  State  College. 
Highland  Heights.  Kentucky  41076 

OKLAHOMA 

Oklahoma  State  University.  Stillwater 

74074 
The  University  ol  Oklahoma.  Norman  73069 
OREGON 

Oregon  State  University,  Corvalhs  97331 
4  Lmlield  College.  McMinnville  97128 
4  Oregon  College  of  Education,  Monmouth 

973bl 

<  Willamette  University.  Salem  97301 
University  ol  Oregon.  Eugene  97403 

4  Northwest  Christian  College,  Eugene 

97401 
University  ol  Portland  97203 

-  Clackamas  Community  College,  Oregon 
City  97045  (GMC  only) 

4  Clark  Community  College,  Vancouver, 

Washington  98663  (GMC  only) 
4  Concordia  College,  Portland  97211 

(GMC  only) 
»  Mt    Hood  Community  College,  Gresham 

97030  (GMC  only) 
4  Portland  Community  College,  Portland 

97219  (GMC  onlyi 

-  Portland  State  University,  Portland 
97207 

PENNSYLVANIA 

Gettysburg  College.  Gettysburg  17325 

-  Mount  St.  Mary's  College,  Emmitsburg. 
Maryland  21727 

4  Shippensburg  State  College, 
Shippensburg  17257 

•  Wilson  College,  Chambersburg  17201 
Lehigh  University.  Bethlehem  18015 

4  Anentown  College  ol  St.  Francis  Desals, 
Center  Valley  18034 

♦  Cedar  Crest  College,  Allentown  18104 

*  Lalayette  College,  Easton  18042 

-  Moravian  College,  Bethlehem  18018 

-  Muhlenberg  College,  Allentown  18104 

•  Penn  St  Allentown,  Allentown  18051 
(GMC  only) 

The  Pennsylvania  State  University, 

University  Park  16802 
University  of  Pittsburgh.  Pittsburgh  15260 

-  Carlow  College.  Pittsburgh  15213 

-  Carneg-ie-Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh 
15213 

»  Chatham  College,  Pittsburgh  15232 

+  Communily  College  ol  Allegheny  County. 

Pittsburgh  15219 
4  Duquesne  University.  Pittsburgh  15219 

-  Point  Park  College,  Pittsburgh  15222 

-  Robert  Morris  College.  Coraopohs  15108 
Allegheny  College.  Meadville  16335 

4  Alliance  College.  Cambridge  Springs 

16403 

*  Edinboro  State  College,  Edmboro  16412 
Grove  City  College.  Grove  City  16127 

4  Slippery  Rock  State  College,  Slippery 

Rock  16057 
St    Joseph  s  College.  Philadelphia  19131 
Wilkes  College,  Wilkes  Barre  18703 
4  Bloomsburg  State  College.  Bloomsburg 

17815 
4  Keystone  Junior  College.  La  Plume  18440 

(GMC  only) 
4  Kings  College,  Wilkes  Barre  18711 
4  Lackawanna  Junior  College.  Scranton 

18503  (GMC  only) 
4  Luzerne  County  Community  College, 

Wilkes  Barre  18711  (GMC  only) 
.  Marywood  College.  Scranton  18509 
.   Misencordia  College.  Dallas  18612 

•  Penn  State  Univ.  Harleton  Campus. 
Hazleton  18201  (GMC  only) 

i   Penn  State  Umv,  Wilkes  Barre  Campus, 
Wilkes  Barre  18708  (GMC  only) 

<  Penn  Slate  Univ.  The  Worlhmgton 
Scranton  Campus,  Dunmore  18512  (GMC 
only) 

*  University  of  Scranton,  Scranton  18510 


University  of  Puerto  Rico,  Rio  Piedras 

00931 
4  Bayamon  Central  University.  Bayamon 

00619 


4  inter  American  University.  Bayamon 

00619 
4  Univ  ot  Puerto  Rico  Bayamon  Regional 

College.  Bayamon  00619 
4  Univ  ol  Puerto  Rico  Carolina  Regional 

College.  Carolina  00630  (GMC  only) 
University  ol  Puerto  Rico,  Mayaguez  00708 
4  Univ  of  Puerto  Rico  Aquadilla  Regional 

College.  Aquadilla  00603 
-   Inter  American  Univ  ot  Puerto  Rico.  San 

German  00753 
SOUTH  CAROLINA 

Baptist  College  at  Charleston,  Charleston 

29411 
The  Citadel,  Charleston  29409 
Clemson  University.  Clemson  29631 
4  Anderson  College.  Anderson  29621  (GMC 

only) 
4  Central  Wesleyan  College.  Central  29630 
University  ot  South  Carolina.  Columbia 

29208 
4  Benedict  College,  Columbia  29204 
Newberry  College,  Newberry  29108 

SOUTH  OAKOTA 


TENNESSEE 

Memphis  State  University,  Memphis  38152 
4  Christian  Brothers  College,  Memphis 

38104 
4  Lemoyne-Owen,  Memphis  38126 
4  Shelby  State  Community  College, 

Memphis  38122  (GMC  only) 
4  Southwestern  College  at  Memphis, 

Memphis  38112 
Tennessee  State  University,  Nashville 

37203 
4  Aquinas  Jr   College,  Nashville  37205 

(GMC  only) 
4  David  Lipscomb  College.  Nashville  37203 
4  Fisk  University.  Nashville  37203 
4  Middle  Tennessee  State  University. 

Murlreesboro  37130 
4  Trevecca  Nazarene  College,  Nashville 

37210 
4  Vanderbilt  University,  Nashville  37203 
University  of  Tennessee,  Knoxville  37916 
»  Knoxville  College,  Knoxville  37921 
TEXAS 
Texas  A&M  University,  College  Station 

77840 
Baylor  University.  Waco  76706 
4  McLennan  Community  College.  Waco 

76703  IGMC  only) 

*  Paul  Qu.nn  College.  Waco  76703 
Southern  Methodist  university,  Dallas 

75275 
4  Eastfield  College,  Mesquite  75149  (GMC 

only) 
4  El  Centro  College,  Dallas  75202  (GMC 

only) 
«  Mountain  View  College,  Dallas  75211 

(CMC  only) 

<  Richland  College,  Dallas  75080  (GMC 
only) 

4  University  ol  Dallas.  Irving  75060 
4  university  ot  Texas  at  Dallas,  Dallas 

75230 
Texas  Tech  University    Lubbock  79409 

*  Lubbock  Christian  College,  Lubbock 
79407 

The  University  of  Texas  at  Austin,  Austin 

78712 
4  St.  Edwards  University,  Austin  78704 
East  Texas  State  University,  Commerce 

75428 

*  Paris  Junior  College,  Pans  75460  (GMC 
only) 

North  Texas  State  University,  Denton  76203 
Southwest  Texas  State  University.  San 

Marcos  78666 
4  American  Technological  University. 

Killeen  76541 
4  Texas  Lutheran  College.  Seguin  78155 
Lamar  University.  Beaumont  77710 
Texas  Christian  University.  Fort  Worth 

76129 
4  Tarrant  County  Junior  College.  Fort 

Worth  76102  (GMC  only) 
4  Texas  Wesleyan  College,  Fort  Worth 

76105 

*  University  of  Texas  at  Arlington, 
Arlington  76010 

Angelo  State  University,  San  Angelo  76901 

UTAH 

University  ol  Utah.  Salt  Lake  City  84112 

*  Weber  State  College,  Ogden  84403 
4  Westminster  College,  Salt  Lake  City 

84105 
Bngham  Young  University.  Provo  84602 
Utah  State  University.  Logan  84322 
VERMONT 
St.  Michael's  College.  Wmooski  05404 

*  Champlain  College.  Burlington  05401 
(GMC  only) 

<  Trimly  College,  Burlington  05401 

4  University  of  Vermont.  Burlington  05401 
Norwich  University.  Northfield  05663 
VIRGINIA 

Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute.  Blacksburg 

24060 
Virginia  Military  Institute.  Lexington  24450 
University  of  Virginia.  Charlottesville 

22903 
WASHINGTON 
Central  Washington  State  College. 

Ellensburg  98926 
University  of  Puget  Sound,  Tacoma  98416 
4  Fort  Steilacoom  Community  College, 

Tacoma  98499  (GMC  only) 
4  Pacilic  Lutheran  University.  Tacoma 

98477 
4  St.  Martin's  College.  Olympia  98503 
4  Tacoma  Community  College.  Tacoma 

98435  (GMC  only) 
Washington  State  University.  College 

Station  Box  2220.  Pullman  99163 
University  ol  Washington.  Seattle  98195 
4  Bellevue  Community  College.  Bellevue 

98007  (GMC  only) 
4  Everett  Community  College.  Everett 

98201  (GMC  only) 
WEST  VIRGINIA 
West  Virginia  University.  Morgantown 

26506 
4  Fjumont  State  College.  Fairmont  26554 

WISCONSIN 

University  of  Wisconsin.  Madison  53706 

4  Madison  Area  Tech  College.  Madison 
53703  (GMC  only) 

University  of  Wisconsin  at  Superior, 
Superior  54880 

WYOMINC 

University  of  Wyoming,  Box  3005. 
University  Station.  Laramie  82071 

^  Schools  having  cross  enrollment  lirti- 
menu  with  AFROTC  host  universities: 
Consult  the  Professor  of  Aerospace  Stud- 
ies it  the  AFROTC  detachment  on  the 
host  university  campus  tor  enrollment 
procedures 

As  of  June  1975    Subject  to  Change 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  1 25 


(Hg,Cd)Te 

If  you're  interested  in 
exploring  new  areas  in  the  use 
of  mercury  cadmium  telluride. 
Honeywell  Radiation  Center 
is  where  you  want  to  be.  For 
over  10  years,  our  Detector 
Products  Department  has 
pioneered  the  use  of  (Hg.Cd)Te 
for  high-performance  infrared 
detectors  and  detector  arrays. 
We  can  now  offer  uniquely 
challenging  state-of-the-art 
opportunities  in  (Hg.Cd)Te 
development,  particularly  in  its 
application  to  complex 
structures,  including  signal 
processing  and  charge-coupled 
devices,  to  qualified  Engineer/ 
Physicists  ready  to  help  us 
maintain  our  leadership  in  this 
Held. 

PRINCIPAL 
ENGINEER 
MS/PhD 

You  will  direct  2-5  engineers 
and  be  responsible  for  technical 
areas  in  Detector  Device  R&D. 
To  qualify,  you  must  have  a 
demonstrated  ability  to  concieve 
and  direct  R&D  Programs  in 
Solid  State  Devices. 

SENIOR 
ENGINEER, 
Silicon 
MS/PhD 

This  key  position  requires  a 
strong  background  in  silicon  solid- 
state  device  operation,  structure, 
circuitry,  and  applications.  You 
will  assume  full  responsibility  for 
Project  Engineering  in  Charge 
Transfer  Devices,  including 
concieving,  designing,  and  devel- 
oping experiments. 

SENIOR 
ENGINEERS, 
Device 
Development 

You  should  have  background  in 

experimental  solid-state  device 
Physics  with  engineering  applica- 
tion experience.  You  will  be 

responsible  for  designing  and 
implementing  experiments  tor 
device  development  and  foi 

the  relation  of  device  operation 

to  s\  stem  application. 

Please  forward  wmr  resume  to: 

Harold  Roberts    MS  50 

Honeywell  Radiation  (enter 

2  I  orbes  Road.  Building  I 

I  exington,  Massat  husetti  02173 

Honeywell 

RADIATION   CENTER 
•  iu.ii  Opportunit)  Employe! 


P6  WPI  Journal 


Henry  Greene  writes  that  he  is  now 
working  for  AMSAA  under  the  Army 
Materiel  Command  (part  of  the  Dept.  of 
Defense),  where  he  serves  as  an  operations 
research  analyst.  Recently  he  received  his 
master's  in  mathematics  at  Wichita  State 
University.  He  and  his  wife,  Suzie,  reside  in 
Bel  Air,  Md. .  .  .  Andrew  Lasko  has  been 
promoted  to  test  supervisor  of  standards  and 
calibrations  at  Northeast  Utilities 
headquarters  in  Berlin,  Conn.  He  had  been  in 
the  test  department  at  Connecticut  Light  and 
Power  since  1972.  .  .  .  Henry  Margolis  is  a 
research  associate  in  the  chemistry 
department  at  the  University  of  Chicago.  He 
received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of 
Vermont  this  year.  .  .  .  Walter  Staples, 
MNS,  serves  as  director  of  the  Audio-Visual 
Dept.  at  Central  High  School  in  Manchester, 
N.H.  .  .  .  Donald  Taft  has  graduated  from 
Harvard  Business  School  as  a  Baker  Scholar, 
the  highest  academic  honor  the  schooi 
confers.  His  MBA  degree  was  granted  "with 
high  distinction."  He  plans  to  work  for 
Monsanto  Polymers  &  Petrochemicals,  St. 
Louis,  Mo.,  as  a  planning  coordinator. 


1973 


Married:  Kenneth  O.  Redden  and  Miss 
Wanda  M.  Giza  on  August  7,  1976  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Redden  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College  and  is  a  secretary- 
receptionist  for  Dr.  Thornton  A.  Rheaume, 
Grafton.  Her  husband  is  a  sales 
representative  for  Century  Sports  of 
Plainfield,  N.J.  .  .  .  Mark  W.  Rockett  to 
Miss  Jean  L.  Daly  on  June  27,  1976  in 
Danvers,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a 
teacher,  is  a  graduate  of  Anna  Maria  College. 
The  bridegroom  is  employed  by  Dickerman 
Software  as  a  senior  systems  analyst.  .  .  .  K. 
Stephen  Williams  and  Miss  Cheryl  L.  Miner 
in  Northfield,  Massachusetts  on  June  5.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Mount  Holyoke  College. 
The  groom  is  maintenance  supervisor  at 
Sterling  School  in  Craftsbury  Common,  Vt. 
Bob  Akie,  who  has  completed  work  for 
his  MS  at  WPI,  is  currently  with  Service 
Master  Industries  in  Hingham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Garry  Breitbach  is  a  process  design 
engineer  for  Union  Carbide-Line  in 
Tonawanda,  N.Y.  .  .  .  David  Brown  works 
for  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  in  Lester,  Pa.. 
.  .  .  Ray  Cherenzia  serves  as  a  field  engineer 
at  Northeast  Constructors  in  Millinocket, 
Maine.  .  .  .  John  Chiarelli  currently 
specializes  in  corporate  law  study  at  New 
York  Law  School.  His  wife,  Gloria,  is 
employed  by  Gulf  Western  as  a  legal 
secretary  in  the  law  department.  .  .  . 
Timothy  French  has  joined  Tenneco 
Chemicals,  Inc.,  Newton,  Mass.,  where  he  is 
plant  engineer.  .  .  .  Stephen  Greenberg  is  a 
manpower  specialist  and  acting  local  office 
manager  at  the  Maine  Employment  Security 
Commission  in  Machias. 


M.  Erik  Husby  is  with  Multisystems,  I 
in  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  David  Matthe\| 
the  proprietor  of  a  service  station  in  Sydt 
Australia  and  writes  that  "business  is  goi 
very  well."  He  is  married  and  has  two 
daughters  aged  four  and  two.  David  says 
he'd  be  glad  to  hear  from  his  friends  at  V1 
His  address  is:  13A  Smarts  Cres,  Cronullil 
NSW,  Australia,  2229.  .  .  .  Firdosh  Mehi 
a  senior  mechanical  engineer  at  Altech  L 
Edmonton,  Alberta,  Canada.  .  .  .  William 
Nutter  serves  as  a  product  service 
representative  at  General  Electric  Ordnan 
Mare  Island  Naval  Shipyard,  Vallejo,  Calil 
Bruce  Parent,  Jr.,  SIM,  has  been  appoit 
purchasing  agent  for  Norton  Co.,  Grindin 
Wheel  Division.  He  has  been  with  Nortor 
since  1961.  He  graduated  from  California 
State  Polytechnic  University  and  the  Sch 
of  Industrial  Management  at  WPI.  ...  Pa 
Parulis  holds  the  post  of  production  eng 
at  General  Dynamics'  Electric  Boat  Divisii 
Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Mark  Richards  has  jc 
Pennsylvania  Life  Insurance  Co.  of  Raleig 
N.C.  .  .  .  Daniel  Robbins  is  a  junior  civil 
engineer  for  the  city  of  Worcester.  .  .  .  G 
Selden,  a  materials  engineer  for  GE  Corp 
research  and  development  in  Schenectad 
N.Y.,  plans  to  work  for  his  PhD  in  materi 
engineering  at  RPI  this  fall. 


1974 


Married:  Donald  P.  Bucci  and  Miss  Nan 
E.  Werme  in  Boylston,  Massachusetts  on 
June  26,  1976.  Mrs.  Bucci  attended 
Worcester  State  College  and  graduated  £ 
registered  nurse  from  the  City  Hospital  ir 
Pittsburgh.  The  groom  is  with  Koppers 
Company  in  Pittsburgh.  .  .  .  Gary  E.  Car 
and  Miss  Marie  E.  Negri  on  May  22,  1976 
Canaan,  Connecticut.  The  bride  graduate 
from  Rosary  College,  River  Forest,  III.  am 
a  master's  degree  from  the  University  of 
Arizona.  She  is  a  teaching  assistant  in 
clothing  and  textiles  at  the  University  of 
Arizona.  Her  husband  is  a  graduate  studt 
in  optical  sciences  and  is  working  in  sola 
energy  at  the  university.  .  .  .  David  W. 
Packard  to  Miss  Patricia  Ann  Horgan  in 
Worcester  on  July  10,  1976.  Mrs.  Packan 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College 
teaches  third  grade  at  Thomas  Prince  Sc 
Princeton,  Mass.  The  groom  works  as  a 
service  engineer  for  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Mathew  DiPilato  and  rvl 
Jo  Ann  Rowse  in  Worcester  on  July  2,  1 
The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Wheelock  Coll 
and  has  served  as  a  substitute  teacher.  F 
husband  holds  the  post  of  geotechnical 
engineer  for  Parsons,  Brinckerhoff,  Quad 
and  Douglas,  Inc.  in  Honolulu,  Hawaii. 

Married:  Dale  Freygang  to  Miss  Sand 
Evans  recently  in  Cuyahoga  Falls,  Ohio,  f 
Freygang  attended  Akron  (Ohio)  Universi 
and  is  a  secretary  with  B.F.  Goodrich.  Th 
bridegroom  is  presently  an  associate  proc 
engineer  in  tire  technology  with  B.F. 
Goodrich.  .  .  .  Daniel  Palmer  to  Miss 
Barbara  J.  Peshek  on  June  20,  1976  in 
Norton,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  gradue 
from  Wheaton  College.  Her  husband  sen 
as  a  mechanical  nuclear  engineer  for  Eba 
Services,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Ralph 
Worden,  MNS  and  Miss  Carolyn  Ann  H( 
of  Northfield,  Massachusetts  on  July  24, 


ioodspeed's  houses  —  Guatemala  to  Bangladesh 


)usands  of  people  were  recently  left 
neless  by  floods  and  earthquakes  in 
lgladesh  and  Guatemala,  but  if 
irles  Goodspeed,  '67  has  anything  to 
about  it,  property  destruction  and 
sonal  injury  from  future  natural 
urbances  in  the  two  countries  will  be 
itly  minimized. 

)r.  Goodspeed,  an  assistant  professor 
Carnegie-Mellon  University  in 
sburgh,  on  a  $370,000  research 
tract  with  the  Agency  for 
:rnational  Development,  has  traveled 
he  ravaged  areas  to  illustrate 
ropriate  technology  for  housing 
)nstruction.  At  CMU  he  is  the  co- 
irman  of  an  interdisciplinary  team 
ng  research  on  housing  construction 
ducive  to  the  third  world. 
Hiring  the  earthquake  in  Guatemala, 
ly  people  were  seriously  injured  or 
:d  when  heavy  tile  roofs  and  adobe 
Is  collapsed  on  them.  "Tile  roofs 
e  introduced  more  than  40  years  ago 
arthquake-prone  Guatemala  as  a 
inological  improvement  which  has 
sme  a  status  symbol  over  grass 
ched  roofs,"  Goodspeed  explains, 
it  they  have  now  proved  to  be  very 
gerous." 


Goodspeed,  working  with  his  co- 
investigators,  has  been  instrumental  in 
redesigning  the  typical  adobe  houses  of 
Guatemala  to  be  lighter  and  more 
earthquake  resistant.  The  new  designs 
are  presently  being  implemented  in 
Guatemala  by  a  member  of  the  team,  a 
consultant  from  Dallas,  Texas.  They  are 
presently  doing  research  on  wood 
preservation  and  ferrocement  roof 
construction  to  be  completed  for 
implementation  this  fall. 

In  the  first  part  of  next  year  Dr. 
Goodspeed  plans  to  return  to 
Bangladesh  to  review  their  work  in  the 
relief  camps  near  Dacca  and  in  the 
flood  plains  in  the  southern  part  of  the 
country.  Their  work  consisted  of 
constructing  over  two  hundred 
multifamily  units  through  the  support  of 
the  relief  agencies  working  the  country. 
"Whatever  modifications  the 
inhabitants  make  to  have  the  shelters 
better  meet  the  needs  of  their  culture," 
Goodspeed  says,  "we  want  to  know  so 
as  to  improve  the  overall  acceptance  of 
the  new  designs.  Our  students  working 
on  the  Bangladesh  project  submitted 
their  work  to  the  UNESCO  competition 
held  in  conjunction  with  the  XII  World 


Congress  of  the  International  Union  of 
Architects  in  Madrid,  Spain  where  they 
won  the  prize  of  the  Soviet  Union." 

The  ultimate  goal  of  the  group, 
through  their  research  and  their 
combined  work  with  the  United  Nations 
Disaster  Relief  Organization  projects,  is 
to  prevent  disasters  in  the  third  world, 
following  natural  disturbances  through 
better  engineered  housing. 

International  attention  is  beginning  to 
focus  on  the  problem  of  housing.  The 
first  international  forum  "HABITAT" 
held  in  Vancouver,  British  Columbia 
this  spring,  at  which  the  CMU  team 
through  State  Department  support 
exhibited  their  work  in  Bangladesh  and 
gave  lectures  on  an  Approach  to 
Housing,  brought  together  people  from 
all  over  the  world  to  address  the 
problems  of  housing. 

"Fortunately  we  are  funded  for  the 
next  three  and  a  half  years,"  reports 
Goodspeed.  "Soon  we  will  be  doing 
research  for  housing  systems  for  Sahi, 
Ethiopia  where  the  drought  over  the 
past  few  years  has  destroyed  the 
nomadic  way  of  life  of  many. " 


i.  The  bride  graduated  from  Ohio 
leyan  University.  She  teaches  French  and 
lusband  teaches  science  at  Pioneer 
jy  Regional  School  in  Northfield.  .  .  . 
XSF  Wyandotte  Corp.  has  transferred 
:e  Beaupre  to  Santa  Fe  Springs,  Calif, 
e  he  will  assume  new  duties  as 
hasing  agent,  safety  coordinator,  product 
ulations  coordinator  and  assistant  plant 
leer.  .  .  .  Wayne  Bryant  is  a  systems 
rammer  at  Composition  Systems,  Inc., 
ford,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Gene  DeJackome  works 
research  engineer  at  Monsanto  Chemical 
n  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Bill 
>hos,  who  received  his  master's  degree 
arketing  and  finance  from  Northwestern 
ersity  in  June,  has  accepted  a  position  in 
management  and  development  program 
Duld,  Inc.  in  the  Chicago  area.  .  .  .  Last 
g  David  Gerth  graduated  from  the 
is  Tuck  School  of  Business 
linistration  at  Dartmouth  College.  .  .  . 
i/ard  Greene  is  with  Bell  Laboratories  in 
idel,  N.J.  .  .  .  Glenn  Haringa  has 
ved  his  MSEE  from  WPI  and  is  now 
cation  engineer  at  GE  in  Schenectady, 

ary  Hills  is  a  field  engineering 
Jsentative  at  Industrial  Risk  Insurers.  .  .  . 
Koenig  received  his  MA  in  mathematics 
i  Pennsylvania  State  University  in  May. 
James  Kudzal  has  earned  his  MS  in 
ics  from  the  University  of  New 
pshire.  .  .  .  Roland  Lariviere  is  now  a 
engineer  for  Combustion  Engineering, 
in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Lindberg 
.s  for  DuPont  in  Wilmington,  Del.  .  .  . 
es  Litwinowich  is  a  civil  engineer  at 


Cullinan  Engineering  Co.,  Inc.  in  Auburn, 
Mass.  .  .  .  I/Lt.  James  Martin  has  graduated 
from  the  T-38  Talon  instructor  pilot  course  at 
Randolph  AFB,  Texas.  He  is  being  assigned 
to  Reese  AFB,  Texas  for  duty  with  a  unit  of 
the  Air  Training  Command.  .  .  .  John 
Mathews  competed  with  the  U.S.  Rowing 
Team  at  the  Olympic  Games  in  Montreal. 
Richard  Miles  works  for  Colonial  Data 
Systems  in  West  Boylston,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Continuing  with  GE,  Hugh  O'Donnell  is  now 
a  survivability  engineer  for  the  firm  in 
Philadelphia.  .  .  .   Stephen  Page  is  a  student 
at  Stetson  Law  School  in  Gulfport,  Fla. 
.  .  .Peter  Petroski  recently  received  his 
master's  degree  in  electrical  engineering  from 
Purdue  University.  Currently  he  is  a 
development  engineer  with  the  Data  Systems 
Division  of  Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Cupertino, 
Calif.  .  .  .Richard  Piwko  now  works  as  an 
application  engineer  from  GE  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Elizabeth  Ronchetti  serves  as  a 
digital  design  engineer  at  Austron,  Inc., 
Austin,  Texas.  .  .  .  James  Rubino  is  a 
district  engineer  in  the  bearings  division  for 
the  Torrington  Co.  He  was  recently 
transferred  from  South  Bend,  Ind.  to 
Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Lawrence  Saint,  Jr.  is 
employed  as  general  manager  at  George 
Schmitt  Co.  in  Santa  Cruz,  Calif.  .  .  .  David 
Steiner,  a  project  manager  at  W.R.  Grace  of 
Lexington,  Mass.,  is  presently  located  in  San 
Francisco.  .  .  .  John  Stopa  is  a  graduate 
student  at  Boston  University  Law  School.  .  .  . 
Bruce  Webster  works  for  Bettis  Atomic 
Power  Lab.  in  West  Mifflin,  Pa.  ...  James 
Wong  is  a  chemical  engineer  at  Texaco,  Inc. 
in  Tulsa, Oklahoma. 


1975 


Married:  William  George  to  Miss  Elizabeth 
Lavoie  on  June  5,  1976  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
George,  who  is  with  the  personnel 
department  of  the  Mechanics  National  Bank, 
graduated  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts.  The  bridegroom  is  a  student 
at  Suffolk  University  Law  School,  Boston. 
.  .  .  Robert  M.  Granger  and  Miss  Cassandra 
O'Connor  on  July  3,  1976.  Mrs.  Granger 
graduated  from  Wells  College  and  is  an 
accountant  for  Bort  Carleton,  Inc.  Her 
husband  is  a  systems  specialist  for  Chas.  T. 
Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  This  fall  he  will  be 
studying  in  the  evening  division  of  Suffolk 
University  Law  School.  .  .  .  David  F.  Irvine 
and  Miss  Shelley  A.  Mientka  in  Amherst, 
Massachusetts  on  July  10,  1976.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Becker,  is  manager  of  Hardee's 
Restaurant  in  Old  Saybrook,  Conn.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  teacher  in  the  Southern 
Berkshire  School  District.  .  .  .  Jonathan  S. 
Kardell  to  Miss  Christine  Wolons  in  Auburn, 
Massachusetts  on  July  31,  1976.  Mrs.  Kardell 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  and  is  employed 
at  the  Auburn  branch  of  the  Consumer 
Savings  Bank  of  Worcester.  The  groom  also 
works  for  the  Consumer  Savings  Bank  of 
Worcester. 

Married:  Stephen  Mealy  and  Paula  Costa 
on  June  11,  1976  in  Dighton,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Bristol  Community 
College  and  has  been  a  computer 
programmer  for  SPAN  Management  Systems 
in  East  Providence,  R.I.  Her  husband  is  with 
the  Naval  Ordnance  Laboratory,  Silver 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  1 27 


"Our  Republic  was  never  created  to  be  a  leveler 
of  man.  It  was  created  to  be  a  lifter,  a  developer  of 
men. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  let  the  gifted,  the 
energetic,  and  the  creative  rise  to  new  heights  of 
achievement,  and  to  let  each  man  find  his  own  level 
on  the  stairway  of  existence. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  encourage  men  to 
meet  their  personal  responsibilities  and  to  shirk  no 
public  duties.  That  is  why  our  people  have  always 
been  concerned  about  the  honest  needs  of  their 
fellow  citizens,  the  chief  of  these  needs  being  liberty, 
justice,  and  opportunity. 

"Our  Republic  demands  that  the  nation  be  governed 
by  the  capable,  the  honorable,  the  far-seeing,  the  clear- 
seeing,  and  not  by  mediocre  men.  In  the  beginning 
it  was  so.  May  it  be  so  again. 

"Our  Republic  demands  more  from  men  than 
any  other  system  in  the  realm  of  self-discipline, 
dependability,  cooperativeness,  industry,  thrift,  and 
honor.  For  anyone  to  foster  class  consciousness,  class 
conflict,  misrepresentation,  covetousness,  violence, 
theft,  and  an  open  defiance  of  established  law— even 
when  done  "legally"— is  to  breed  anarchy  and  tyranny. 

"Our  Republic  was  not  designed  to  interfere  with 
the  inalienable  right  of  its  people  to  be  masters  of 
their  own  destinies. 

"Our  Republic  was  established  to  make  men  free!" 

We  welcome  this  200th  anniversary  as  we  welcome  every  important 
milestone  in  our  lives  ...  a  significant  occasion  for  celebration,  reflection 
and  rededication . 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


28  WPI  Journal 


tring,  Maryland.  .  .  .  Raymond  W.  Mott 
d  Miss  Sallyanne  Olearcek  in  Warren, 
assachusetts  on  June  19,  1976.  Mrs.  Mott 
tended  Anna  Maria  College.  The  groom  is 
th  Universal  Products  in  Chicago.  .  .  . 
jbert  C.  Simon  and  Miss  Deborah  J. 
:nne  on  September  7,  1975  in  Franklin 
kes,  New  Jersey.  Bob  has  completed  his 
st  year  at  the  Amos  Tuck  School  of 
isiness  Administration  at  Dartmouth 
illege.  he  will  receive  his  MBA  next  June. 
Bruce  Arey  works  as  assistant  engineer  at 
rcell  Associates  in  Glastonbury,  Conn.  .  .  . 
irry  Braunstein  is  a  field  sales  engineer  for 
xas  Instruments  in  Waltham,  Mass.,  while 
idrew  Brock  holds  a  similar  position  for 
>  firm  in  Hamden,  Conn.  .  .  .  Alan 
landler  serves  as  an  associate  design 
gineer  at  Pritchard  International  in  Algeria. 
.  Louis  Christoporo  works  for  Stereo 
mponent  Systems,  Inc.  in  Randolph,  Mass. 

Bill  Faltas  is  presently  employed  as  an 
uarial  student  with  the  Hartford  Insurance 
Dup  in  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Dan  Grover 
;  joined  the  South  Portland  (Me.)  office  of 
rk  Stimson  Associates,  a  real  estate  firm. 
iviously  he  was  manager  of  Northgate 
wl-a-Rama  in  Portland.  .  .  .  Lloyd 
menway  is  a  self-employed  consultant  in 
jrcester.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Lacko  works  as  a 
nputer  programmer  for  the  Hartford 
urance  Group  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
Jonathan  Leather  is  a  sales  engineer  for 
Itair  Corp.  at  Mentor-on-the-Lake,  Ohio. 

Terrence  Lee  has  joined  Eastman  Kodak 
mpany  as  a  development  engineer  in  the 
jmical  manufacturing  division  of  the  film 
nufacturing  organization  at  Rochester, 
'.  Recently  he  received  his  master's  degree 
n  Cornell  University.  .  .  .  Alan  Destribats, 
ger  Nowlin,  and  Richard  Orsini  were 
sented  with  national  honorable  mention 
ards  by  the  Small  Business  Institute  in 
ie  for  the  study  they  participated  in  on 

iNil  Industries  of  Fitchburg  in  1974  when 
y  were  doing  graduate  work  at  WPI.  The 
jy  recommended  an  overall  business  plan 
the  firm,  which  electroplates  on  plastic.  It 
uded  data  on  finance,  marketing,  and  new 
duct  growth.  Largely  as  a  result  of 
'lementing  the  recommendations,  AuriNil 

tripled  its  sales  in  the  last  two  years.  All 
»e  men  are  currently  employees  of  GE's 
:hanical  drive  turbine  department  in 
:hburg. 

Villiam  Gregory,  Jr.  is  a  manufacturing 
lineer  at  Boston  Insulated  Wire  &  Cable, 
•nouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  Bob  Petersen  is 
:hing  chemistry  at  Emma  Willard  School 
"roy,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Tumkur  Ramaprasad 
rks  as  a  quality  analyst  at  Colt  Industries 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Setlin  is  a 
duction  chemist  at  Pandel-Bradford  in 
veil,  Mass.  .  .  .  Jon  Wyman,   an  ensign  in 

Navy  Civil  Engineer  Corps,  is  presently  a 
ilities  planning  officer  for  the  Public  Works 
oartment  at  the  Naval  Weapons  Support 
iter  in  Crane,  Indiana. 


1976 


Married:  J.  Hunter  Babcock  and  Miss 
Katheryn  C.  Keene  in  Manchester, 
Connecticut  on  June  19,  1976.  Mrs.  Babcock 
attended  Smith  College.  .  .  .  Miss  Karen  A. 
Bird  and  Dennis  H.  May  on  June  12  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  May  is  a  chemist  for 
Warner-Lambert  Co.,  Morris  Plains,  N.J.  Her 
husband,  a  graduate  of  the  University  of 
Kentucky,  is  a  commercial  property 
underwriter  for  Allendale  Mutual  Insurance 
Co.,  Short  Hills.  .  .  .  Walter  C.  Braley  and 
Miss  Jean  Borowski  in  Northampton, 
Massachusetts  on  June  19,  1976.  The  bride  is 
a  senior  nursing  student  at  Burbank  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing  in  Fitchburg.  The  groom  is 
a  chemical  engineer  at  Presmet  Corp.  in 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Joseph  L.  Calabrese  to  Miss 
Rebecca  A.  Greco  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut 
on  June  18,  1976.  Mrs.  Calabrese  graduated 
from  Southern  Connecticut  State  College 
with  a  BS  degree  in  early  childhood 
education.  . .  .  Philip  B.  Doherty  and  Miss 
Diane  E.  Laukaitis  on  July  24,  1976  in 
Auburn,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Auburn  High  School.  The  bridegroom  is 
with  Tek  Bearing  Co.,  Auburn,  and  is  a 
student  at  Central  New  England  School  of 
Technology. 

Married:  Randall  S.  Emerson  to  Miss 
Anne  M.  Doucet  on  July  3,  1976  in 
Newington,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Emerson,  a 
veterinary  assistant,  graduated  from  Becker. 
Her  husband  is  employed  by  Kemper 
Insurance,  Quincy,  Mass.  .  .  .  John  J. 
Hamilton  and  Miss  Virginia  M.  Ward  on  May 
23,  1976  in  South  Yarmouth,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  Boston  and  is  an  assistant 
buyer  for  Filene's.  The  groom  is  with  the 
Central  Line  Division  of  Raymond 
International,  Inc.,  Oakland,  N.J.  .  .  .Douglas 
Knowles  to  Miss  Linda  J.  Woodward  in 
Pembroke,  Massachusetts  on  June  12,  1976. 
Mrs.  Knowles  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  at  Amherst,  and  is  an 
assistant  buyer  for  Abraham  and  Strauss  of 


New  York.  The  bridegroom  is  a  computer 
programmer  for  RCA  in  Somerville,  N.J.  .  .  . 
Steven  M.  Landry  and  Miss  Diane  E. 
Bedard  recently  in  Fitchburg,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  graduated  from  Burbank  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  M.  McLean 
and  Miss  Penny  J.  Bergmann  on  June  5, 
1976  in  Litchfield,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a 
quality  control  supervisor  and  the  groom  is  a 
process  engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Charles  B.  Price  III  to 
Miss  Diane  M.  Burque  on  June  5  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Price  is  a  Becker  graduate. 
Her  husband  works  for  RCA  Corp., 
Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  .  Geoffrey  E.  Thayer 
and  Miss  Michelle  Ann  Gagnon  on  July  17, 
1976  in  Worcester.  The  bride,  who  graduated 
from  Regis  College,  has  been  an  administrative 
assistant  in  community  and  family  medicine 
at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
Center.  The  groom  is  a  field  sales 
engineer  for  Texas  Instruments  in 
Houston. 

Douglas  Adams  is  an  actuarial  student  at 
Massachusetts  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Company  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Mark 
Allyn  works  for  WCBB-TV  in  Lewiston,  Me. 
.  .  .  David  Altieri  serves  as  a  programmer  at 
Dynamics  Research  Corp.  in  Wilmington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  David  Andel  has  joined  Farrel  Co., 
a  division  of  USM  Corp.,  in  Ansonia,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Pamela  Baradine  is  employed  by 
Westinghouse.  .  .  .  Pete  Barbadora  and 
Richard  Rudis  are  assistant  engineers  for 
Stone  &  Webster  in  Lycoming,  N.Y.  ... 
James  Beech  holds  the  post  of  process 
engineer  at  Mobil  Research  &  Development 
Corp.  in  Paulsboro,  N.J.  .  .  .  Al  Briggs  has 
been  named  a  manufacturing  supervisor  at 
DuPont  in  Waynesboro,  Va.  ...  Alan  Brown 
is  doing  graduate  work  at  Brown  University. 
.  .  .  John  Bucci  is  with  GE  in  the 
manufacturing  management  training  program 
at  Plainville,  Conn.  .  .  .  Lynne  Buckley 
works  for  United  Engineers  &  Constructors  in 
Boston.  .  .  .  James  Buss  is  an  actuarial 
assistant  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co., 
Worcester. 


jamesbury 


manufacturers  of 


Double-Seal  ©Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere®  Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1976  1 29 


John  Casey  serves  as  an  industrial 
engineer  for  Clairol  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
William  Casey,  Jr.  is  a  programmer  trainee 
at  Sperry  Univac  in  Blue  Bell,  Pa.  .  .  .  David 
Chabot  has  been  employed  as  a  systems 
programmer  for  Sperry  Univac.  .  .  .  Gary 
Chabot  works  for  Combustion  Engineering  in 
Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Earl  Chapman  has 
joined  Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester,  N.Y.,  as  a 
development  engineer  in  the  motion  picture 
film  division  at  Kodak  Park.  He  belongs  to 
ASME.  .  .  .  Richard  Cheever  is  a  materials 
planner  at  Digital  Equipment  Corporation  in 
Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  Coderre  works 
for  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Tonawanda,  N.Y., 
and  attends  night  school  at  Canisius  College, 
Buffalo,  where  he  is  studying  for  his  MBA. 
.  .  .  Robert  Cormier  has  joined  Allan  H. 
Swanson,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  Michael 
Dabkowski  is  with  Mobil  Corp.,  Paulsboro, 
N.J.  .  .  .  Jay  D'Angona  holds  the  post  of 
assistant  specialist  at  the  University  of 
California  School  of  Pharmacy  in  San 
Francisco. 

David  DeMeo  is  an  officer  candidate  in 
the  U.S.  Navy,  NETC,  Newport,  R.I.  .  .  . 
Loretta  Deming  works  for  the  gas  turbine 
division  of  GE  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
John  Dewine,  a  field  engineer  for  Turner 
Construction,  is  located  in  Cleveland,  Ohio. 
.  .  .  Peter  DiPietro  serves  as  a  fire 
production  engineer  for  Industrial  Risk 
Insurers  in  Wellesley,  Mass.  .  .  .  John  Duane 
is  a  graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Joseph 
Dzialo  is  employed  as  a  process  engineer  at 
Procter  &  Gamble  Paper  Products  Co.  in 
Mehoopany,  Pa.  .  .  .  American  Cyanamid 
Company,  Bound  Brook,  N.J.  employs 
Edward  Fasulo  as  a  shift  supervisor  in  the 
organic  chemicals  division.  .  .  .  Sidney 
Formal  has  joined  Soil  Conservation  Service 
of  Baton  Rouge,  La.  This  fall  he  will  be 
situated  in  Thibodeaux,  La.  .  .  .  John  Forster 
works  for  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee  in  Boston. 
.  .  .  Daniel  Garfi  was  recently  named  a 
systems  analyst  at  Insco  Systems  Corp., 
Neptune,  N.J. 

Larry  Gaspar  has  accepted  a  position 
from  GTE  Sylvania.  .  .  .  William  Giudice  is 
with  AT&T.  .  .  .  Len  Goldberg  works  as  a 
systems  programmer  at  Johnson  & 
Johnson's  management  information  center. 
.  .  .  Timothy  Golden  is  a  manufacturing 
supervisor  at  Monsanto  in  Indian  Orchard, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Roland  Gravel  holds  the  post  of 
field  service  engineer  at  Combustion 
Engineering  in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  State 
Mutual  Life  in  Worcester  employs  John 
Grenier,  Jr.  as  a  systems  analyst.  .  .  . 
Edward  Griffin  has  joined  the  ordnance 
department  at  General  Electric  in  Pittsfield, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Perry  Griffin  is  a  production 
supervisor  at  Estee  Lauder,  Inc.  in  Oakland, 
N.J.         Peter  Hallock  is  a  self-employed 
contract  programming  consultant  at  Online 
Applications  in  Hudson,  N.H.  .  .  .  Richard 
Hansen  has  joined  Westinghouse.  .  .  . 
Currently  John  Heid  holds  the  post  of 
process  engineer  at  Clairol  in  Stamford, 
Conn.  Barry  Heitner  is  a  graduate 

student  at  Cornell  University. 


Alumni 
Basketball  Night 

SATURDAY,  DECEMBER  4 

WPI  vs.  Bentley 

Come  to  Harrington  Auditorium  for  a 

Big  Night  of  Basketball 

Special  admission  charges  for 

Alumni  families 


Charles  Hillman  was  recently  named 
career  development  program  engineer  at 
General  Electric  in  Burlington,  Vt.  .  .  .  Mark 
Hoey  is  a  junior  civil  engineering  aide  in  the 
engineering  department  of  the  City  of 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Gregory  Hostetler  has 
received  a  fellowship  to  study  for  a  master's 
degree  at  Colorado  State  University  in  Fort 
Collins.  .  .  .  Raymond  Houle,  Jr.  has  joined 
Chesebrough-Pond.  .  .  .  Zeses  Karoutas 
attends  graduate  school  at  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute.  .  .  .  Charles  Lauzon  is 
doing  graduate  work  at  the  University  of 
Michigan.  .  .  .  Roger  Locantore  serves  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  trainee  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Anne  Madara  holds  the  post  of  evaluation 
engineer  at  Polaroid  Corporation  in  New 
Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  Marc  Mahoney  is 
assistant  engineer  at  Public  Service  Co.  of 
N.H.  in  Manchester.  .  .  .  John  Manning 
works  for  GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham  Heights, 
Mass.  .  .  .  John  Maxouris  has  been  named 
a  programmer-analyst  at  Orange  &  Rockland 
Utilities  in  Spring  Valley,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Thomas 
May  is  a  sales  engineer  in  training  at  the 
Torrington  (Conn.)  Company. 

Michelle  McGuire  has  been  employed  by 
Westinghouse.  .  .  .  Philip  McNamara  is 
presently  a  nuclear  test  engineer  at  Electric 
Boat  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Michael 
Menesale  works  as  a  wire  rope  engineer  for 
U.S.  Steel  in  East  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Commercial  Union,  Boston,  employs  Donald 
Moore  as  a  computer  programmer.  .  .  . 
Roland  Moreau  has  been  named  a  resident 
engineer  for  United  Nuclear  Corp.  of 
Uncasville,  Conn.  His  current  assignment  is  at 
Teledyne  Wah  Chang  Albany  (Ore.)  Corp. 
.  .  .  John  Moroney  serves  as  a  production 
supervisor  for  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Kurt  Muscanell  is  a  system 
programmer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  in  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Matt  Naclerio  is  with 
Goodyear  in  Akron,  Ohio.  .  .  .  James  Nolan 
works  for  Westinghouse  in  Baltimore  Md.  .  .  . 
Dennis  Nygaard  holds  the  post  of  field 
service  engineer  at  Combustion  Engineering 
in  Windsor,  Conn. 


Kevin  Osborne  is  assistant  engineer  at 
Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in  Philadelphia.  .  . 
Edward  Perry  has  entered  the  U.S.  Air 
Force.  .  .  .  Craig  Plourde  has  accepted  a 
position  as  system  analyst  with  Jethro  in 
Wayland,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard  Predella  ho 
the  post  of  operations  supervisor  at  AT&" 
Long  Lines  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Chi1 
Pritchard  serves  as  a  programmer  for  Mi' 
Maine  Medical  Center  in  Waterville.  .  .  . 
Raymond  Robey  is  a  research  engineer 
Allied  Chemical  Corp.  in  Solvay,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Gerard  Robidoux  has  been  employed  as 
electronic  engineer  at  National  Security 
Agency  in  Fort  Meade,  Md.  .  .  .  Robert  R 
has  joined  GTE  Sylvania.  .  .  .  Robert  Sail 
is  associated  with  Veeder  Root  Co.  .  .  .  R( 
Smith  serves  as  an  associate  engineer  foi 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.,  Defense  and 
Aerospace  Center,  in  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  .  [ 
Stanley  Stadnicki,  Jr.  has  accepted  a 
position  in  the  toxicology  section  of  the  d 
safety  evaluation  department  at  Pfizer,  ln( 
Central  Research,  in  Groton,  Conn.  Forme 
he  was  with  the  Mason  Research  Institute 
Worcester.  He  belongs  to  the  American 
Association  for  the  Advancement  of  Scier 
and  the  Engineering  in  Medical  and  Biolof 
Group  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and 
Electronic  Engineers. .  .  .  Paula  Stratouly 
with  Exxon  Corp.  in  Houston,  Texas. 

Barry  Tarr  works  as  a  systems  enginee 
with  Epsilon  Data  Management  in  Burlingl 
Mass.  .  .  .  William  Van  Herwarde  holds 
position  of  machine  designer  for  Worthing 
Pump  in  Taneytown,  Md.  .  .  .  Kevin  Wall 
has  received  a  graduate  teaching 
assistantship  from  RPI  in  Troy,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Robert  Winter  is  with  Raymond 
International,  Inc.  .  .  .  Neal  Wright,  a  sec< 
lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers,  Alexandria,  Va.,  is  currently 
studying  on  a  graduate  fellowship.  .  .  .  Bri 
Young  is  a  graduate  trainee  at  Allied 
Chemical  Corp.,Morristown,  N.J.  For  six 
months  he  expects  to  be  rotated  through 
plant  locations  in  South  Point,  and  Toledo 
Ohio  and  Orange,  Texas. 


30  WPI  Journal 


t- 


its  ?* 


George  F.  Martin,  '10,  retired  chief  engineer 
of  Stafford  Iron  Works,  Worcester,  passed 
away  in  Heywood  Memorial  Hospital  in 
Gardner,  Massachusetts  on  June  11,  1976. 

He  was  born  in  Millville,  Mass.  on  June  16, 
1886.  After  graduating  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI,  he  was  with  Eastern  Bridge  & 
Structural  Co.  until  1940,  where  he  served  as 
manager  and  general  superintendent.  From 
1940  until  his  retirement  he  was  chief 
engineer  at  Stafford  Iron  Works. 

A  member  of  Sigma  Xi,  and  past  president 
of  the  Auburn  Rotary  Club,  he  also  belonged 
to  the  Tech  Old  Timers  Club,  Worcester 
Economic  Club  and  the  Massachusetts  Civil 
Engineering  Society. 


Sidney  T.  Swallow,  '16  of  Orange  City, 
Florida  passed  away  recently. 

Following  graduation  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI,  he  joined  Central  States 
Envelope  Co.  in  Indianapolis.  From  1923  until 
his  retirement  in  1956,  he  was  with  Western 
Electric  Co.  His  final  assignment  was  at 
company  headquarters  in  New  York  City, 
where  he  was  concerned  with  plant 
extensions  and  layout. 

Mr.  Swallow  was  born  on  Sept.  14,  1892  in 
Allston,  Mass.  He  belonged  to  the  Masons, 
served  in  World  War  I,  and  had  been  a 
scoutmaster.  Formerly  he  was  president  of 
the  Northern  New  Jersey  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 


Cleon  A.  Perkins,  '17,  former  Vermont 
State  Highway  Board  chairman,  died  on  June 
9,  1976  in  Rutland,  Vermont.  He  was  80  years 
old  and  a  native  of  Rutland. 

After  graduating  as  a  chemist  from  WPI, 
he  was  with  Rutland  Fire  Clay  Co.  until  1956, 
when  he  retired  as  president.  He  was  also 
president  of  the  Killington  Bank  &  Trust  Co. 
from  1937  to  1960.  He  served  several  years  in 
the  Vermont  Senate  and  House  of 
Representatives,  where  he  was  Democrat 
leader  of  the  house. 

He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  and  was 
trustee  of  the  University  of  Vermont  from 
which  he  received  an  honorary  doctor  of  law 
degree  in  1951.  During  World  War  I  he 
served  in  France. 


Donald  M.  McAndrew,  '25,  a  long-time 
employe  of  Exxon  Oil  Co.,  died  on  July  15, 
1976  in  Baton  Rouge,  Louisiana. 

A  well  known  civic  leader,  he  was  director 
of  the  East  Baton  Rouge  Council  on  Aging, 
director  of  the  Community  Services  Council, 
and  president  of  the  Area  Council  on 
Alcoholism,  Humble  30-year  Club,  Pelican 
State  Investment  Club,  Southdowns  PTA, 
and  the  Family  Counseling  Service.  He  was 
also  associated  with  the  local  Legal  Aid 
Society,  United  Givers  Planning  Council,  and 
a  member  of  Theta  Chi. 

He  was  born  on  July  29,  1904  in  Barre, 
Mass.  and  received  his  degree  in  chemistry  in 
1925.  From  1930  to  1962  he  was  with  Exxon, 
where  he  served  as  a  process  control  head  at 
Eagle  Works  Refinery  in  Jersey  City,  N.J.  and 
assistant  head  of  Petroleum  Products  Lab.  in 
Baton  Rouge. 


Herbert  R.  Wittig,  '26  died  on  June  10,  1976 
in  Tampa,  Florida.  He  was  74. 

A  native  of  Adams,  Mass.,  he  graduated  as 
a  chemist  from  WPI.  From  1927  until  1962  he 
was  with  the  Vellumoid  Company  in 
Worcester.  He  worked  for  the 
Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts  laboratory 
at  Paul  A.  Dever  School  in  Taunton  from 
1962  to  1967.  He  belonged  to  Taunton 
Personnel  Association,  the  Elks,  and  SAE. 


Gregory  J.  Samoylenko,  '27  of  Auburndale, 
Massachusetts  died  on  May  28,  1976  at  the 
age  of  78. 

He  was  born  in  Russia  on  October  10,  1897 
and  attended  Armavier  Classical  Gymnasium 
in  Russia  prior  to  attending  WPI.  In  1927  he 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical 
engineer.  For  many  years  he  was  with  Boston 
Edison  Co.,  Boston. 


Carl  H.  Schwind,  '27  died  of  heart  disease 
at  his  home  in  Dallas,  Texas  on  May  6,  1976. 

He  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  chemist. 
During  his  career  he  was  associated  with 
Whiting  Milk  Co.,  Slater,  Co.,  Dupont  Rayon 
Co.,  and  National  Aniline.  For  many  years  he 
was  employed  by  Curtiss  Aeroplane  Co.  and 
Chance  Vought  Corp.  in  Dallas. 

Mr.  Schwind  was  born  on  August  2,  1906 
in  Arlington,  Mass.  He  was  active  in  scouting 
and  served  as  a  trustee  of  the  Unitarian 
Church. 


E.  Waldemar  Carlson,  '30,  founder  of  th 
former  Bryton  Chemical  Co.  and  world-wh 
authority  on  oil  research,  died  in  Philadelp 
Pennsylvania  on  July  4,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  August  2,  1907  in 
Worcester  and  graduated  from  WPI  as  a 
chemist.  He  joined  Standard  Oil  (Esso)  Co 
New  Jersey,  ultimately  becoming  chief 
chemical  engineer  of  the  firm.  In  1947  he 
founded  Bryton  Chemical  Co.,  where  he 
remained  as  president  until  he  retired  and 
sold  the  company  to  Continental  Oil  Co.  ir 
1959. 

Mr.  Carlson,  who  held  several  patents, 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  Skull,  Tau  . 
Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Xi.  He  was  a  member 
the  Union  League,  ACS,  U.S.  Power 
Squadron  and  the  American  Wood 
Preservers  Association. 


John  C.  Spence,  '33,  a  retired  sales 
engineer,  passed  away  on  July  12,  1976  in 
Glen  Ridge,  New  Jersey. 

Born  on  August  8,  1911  in  Springfield, 
Mass.,  he  later  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI.  For  several  years  he  w. 
the  production  planner  at  Federal 
Shipbuilding  &  Drydock  Co.  in  Kearny,  N.J 
From  1949  until  his  retirement  in  1971,  he 
was  sales  engineer  for  the  Newark  Caster  i. 
Truck  Co. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and 
served  as  president  of  the  board  of  trustees 
of  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  of  Orange, 
N.J. 


M.  Kent  Smith,  '35,  a  division  manager  at 
Baker  Castor  Oil  Co.,  Bayonne,  New  Jersey 
passed  away  last  December. 

He  was  born  on  December  1,  1912  in 
Worcester,  later  graduating  as  a  chemist  frc 
WPI.  During  his  early  years  he  was  with 
Vultex  Chemical  Co.  and  Barrett  Co.  He  the 
joined  Baker  Castor  Oil  Co.,  where  he 
became  manager  of  the  technical  division.  / 
member  of  ACS,  he  also  belonged  to  AOCJ 
CMRA,  and  CCDA. 


Billie  A.  Schmidt,  '39  of  Novato,  Californic 
died  on  June  4,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  November  27,  1916  in 
Omaha,  Neb.  After  receiving  his  BSEE  from 
WPI,  he  joined  Ivy  H.  Smith  Co.  For  many 
years  he  was  with  the  Pacific  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.  where  he  worked  as  division 
plant  engineer  and  district  plant  engineer  in 
San  Rafael  and  Concord,  Calif. 

Mr.  Schmidt  belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  the  Masons,  AIEE,  and  the  Californi 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 


22  WPI  Journal 


Leading  the  way  in  metalworking 
technology  in  theWestern  Hemisphere  with 
the  most  complete  range  of  facilities 

ir  i  \\  1(2  fore  )\\  i< )  w  idustry  -  thaT's  I  \  fM  lflf  YMAN 

GORDON 


I// J 


2 

December  1976 


2  The  future  —  what? 

Three  national  figures  address  the  question  of  what  the  future 
holds  in  store  for  us  —  what  sort  of  balance  can  we  achieve 
between  technology  and  the  needs  and  values  of  people. 

3  Navigation  chart,  engine,  and  compass:  Tools  for  the  man- 
agement of  growth  and  technology 

by  Fletcher  L.  Byrom,  chairman  of  the  Board,  Koppers  Co.,  Inc. 

8  The  need  for  growth 

by  Herman  Kahn,  director  of  the  Hudson  Institute 

14  The  mirage  of  efficiency 

by  Hazel  Henderson,  director  of  the  Princeton  Center  for 
Alternative  Futures,  Inc. 

20  Thank  you! 

A  report  of  the  record-breaking  1975-76  Annual  Alumni  Fund 

24  Your  class  and  others 
26  Solar  houses  in  Vermont 
32  Completed  careers 


tor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

mni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

ylications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
.chairman:  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57;  Leonard 
ozowski,  74;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried 
.arson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev. 
/vard  I.  Swanson,  '45. 

sign:  H.  Russell  Kay 

wgraphy:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
issachu  setts 

nting:  The  House  of  Offset,  Somerville, 
issachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  editorial 
content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor,  WPI  JOUR- 
NAL, Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worces- 
ter, Massachusetts  01 609  (phone  617-753- 
1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Copyright  ©  1976  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December,  Feb- 
ruary, and  April.  Second  Class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Postmaster-  Please 
send  Form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.  A.  Julian,  '49 
R.  A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members- at-large:  B.  E. 
Hosmer,  '61 ;  L.  Polizzotto  70;  J.  A.  Palley,  '46;  J. 
L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman;  L.  H. 
White,  '41;  G.A.Anderson,  '51;  H.  I.  Nelson, 
'54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  / 1 


The 

future 

what? 


QUE  SERA,  SERA,  Whatever  will  be,  will  be,"  went 
the  refrain  of  the  song.  But  what  will  be  ahead  in 
our  lifetimes?  It  sometimes  seems  as  if  the  world  is  split 
into  two  camps  on  that  issue.  On  the  one  hand,  we  have 
the  prophets  of  doom,  who  argue  that  we  will  soon  run  out 
of  food,  energy,  mineral  resources,  and  that  our  long-term 
future  on  Earth  is  one  of  despair  and  degradation.  On  the 
other  side,  we  have  those  who  see  that  the  system  has 
worked  well  enough  for  them  so  far,  and  why  won't  it 
continue?  And  on  each  side  there  are  myriad  special 
interest  groups  pushing  their  own  particular  interpreta- 
tion. 

There's  even  a  name  for  this  business  of  trying  to  predict 
the  future:  futurology.  What  distinguishes  these  modern- 
day  seers  from  their  predecessors  is  the  basis  for  their 
statements:  not  revelation  from  on  high,  nor  divination 
from  tea  leaves  or  bamboo  sticks,  but  scientific,  educated 
guessing  based  on  extrapolation  of  trends  and  hard  data. 
That  no  two  futurologists  agree  on  what  the  future  holds 
may  be  some  measure  of  the  "science"  involved. 

But  the  questions  they  ask,  and  the  issues  they  raise  are 
vitally  important.  And  in  all  the  debates,  pro  and  con,  the 
role  of  technology  is  central.  To  some  it  is  the  primary  evil, 
responsible  for  most  of  our  present-day  problems;  others 
see  it  as  the  one  real  avenue  for  solving  those  problems; 
still  others  wonder  what  the  fuss  is  all  about,  since  they 
feel  technology  is  merely  one  part  of  a  complex  world. 

The  problem  seems  to  be  in  assessing  the  proper  balance 
between  technology  as  it  represents  the  material  side  of 
life,  and  values,  as  they  embody  the  inner  needs  and 
yearnings  of  people.  This  is  hardly  a  new  debate,  but  it  is 
no  less  important  for  that.  As  a  technical  institution,  WPI 
is  inevitably  caught  up  in  that  debate,  and  it  is  no  news  to 
Journal  readers  that  with  the  WPI  Plan  the  college  has 
come  out  squarely  in  the  middle.  Our  philosophy  em- 
bodies the  goal  of  producing  technically  competent 
specialists  who  are  aware  of  and  open  to  the  consequences 
of  their  actions,  the  social  context  of  their  work,  and  the 
ways  in  which  what  they  do  affects  other  people  and  the 
whole  ot  society. 

When  WPI  got  ready  to  open  and  rededicate  Salisbury 
laboratories,  three  articulate  speakers  were  invited  to 
address  these  questions  m  public  symposium.  Two  of 
them  are  futurologists  by  profession  and  one  is  a  con- 
cerned and  conscientious  businessman   Although  they 
have  many  points  ot  disagreement;  each  is  optimistic 
about  the  tutuie  and  about  out  ability  to  surmount 
present -ilav  problems 

2 /December  1976 /WPI  Journal 


Fletcher  L  Byrom  is  chairman  of  the  board  of  Koppers  Co.,  Inc.,  in 
Pittsburgh.  As  head  of  one  of  the  nation's  largest  manufacturing 
companies,  Byrom  insists  that  responsible  corporate  citizenship  mus^ 
be  a  consideration  in  every  major  management  decision.  He  is  an 
articulate  spokesman  for  the  growing  number  of  businessmen  who 
recognize  their  responsibility  to  the  world  at  large  as  well  as  to  their 
stockholders  and  employees. 


ivigation  chart,  engine,  and  compass: 

iols  for  the  management  of  growth  and  technology 


:letcher  L.  Byrom 

DU  MAY  BE  FAMILIAR  with  a  study  made  a  few  years  ago 
reporting  that  many  alumni  of  a  certain  university  still 
!red  horn  a  common  nightmare,  in  which  they  dreamed  that 
had  neglected  some  of  their  courses  or  missed  some  of  their 
linations.  That  nightmare  could  persist  for  as  much  as  40 
s  beyond  graduation. 

has  been  almost  that  long  since  I  submitted  myself  to  the  joys 
cerrors  of  a  formal  education,  but  I  know  the  feeling, 
refore,  I  concluded  that  I  had  better  do  my  homework  well 
re  speaking  at  WPI. 

the  course  of  my  preparation,  I  came  across  something  called 
VPI  Plan.  Two  aspects  of  that  plan  captured  my  attention  and 
iration. 

ne  is  the  requirement  that  the  student  complete  a  major 
:ct  relating  technology  to  social  needs  or  interests.  This  is  an 
;ether  laudable  and  much- needed  effort,  one  that  I  would 
y  to  corporations  and  other  institutions,  as  well  as  to 
ents.  I  could  not  continue  one  more  day  in  my  job  without 
:onstant  assurance  that  what  I  and  my  colleagues  do  serves 
leeds  and  interests  of  society. 

le  other  aspect  of  the  WPI  Plan  that  fascinates  me  is  the 
irement  that  the  student  pass  a  competency  examination 
the  end  of  his  curriculum  to  prove  that  he  has  truly  learned 
t  he  was  supposed  to  learn.  A  few  years  ago,  I  addressed  an 
tnbly  of  school  administrators  and  posed  the  simple  ques- 
:  "Is  anybody  learning?" 

know  a  lot  of  people  are  teaching,"  I  said,  "just  as  there  may 
itelligent  creatures  in  outer  space  trying  to  communicate 
1  us.  The  question  is  whether  the  message  is  getting 
ugh."  And  then  I  quoted  from  a  booklet  on  educational 
.elines,  as  follows: 

Ibo  often  and  too  much,  our  schools  have  been  input- 
nted.  Budgets  have  been  devised  with  an  eye  to  the  satisfac- 
of  cold  formulations,  rather  than  results.  It  is  as  if  a  team  of 
lagement  consultants,  architects  and  engineers  were  to  create 
anuf acturing  corporation  with  well-defined  staff,  office  build- 
i  and  plants — but  with  no  thought  as  to  the  goods  to  be 
luced." 

resent  company  excepted,  of  course.  The  first  products  of  the 
[  Plan  are  already  on  the  market,  and  they  are  outstanding  in 
lity. 

take  special  pleasure  in  the  happy  occasion  that  brings  us  here 
ly.  The  rededication  of  Salisbury  Hall  focuses  renewed  atten- 
i  upon  the  need  to  promote  interfaces  between  science  and  the 
rianities  if  their  various  disciplines  are  to  serve  society.  I  was 
rom  the  campus,  in  time  and  distance,  when  I  discovered, 
:ty  much  on  my  own,  how  much  I  could  learn  from  the 
osophers,  the  anthropologists,  the  social  scientists,  the  clas- 


sic economists.  I  am  still  working  hard  to  catch  up.  Your 
graduates — those  "technological  humanists"  described  in  a  re- 
cent issue  of  American  Education — leave  here  with  a  running 
start. 

One  of  the  most  important  issues  that  will  face  them  as  they 
take  their  places  in  the  world  outside  is  the  theme  of  this 
symposium:  People  and  Technology:  A  Humane  Balance.  Speci- 
fically, they  will  have  to  consider  whether  and  how  the  needs  and 
interests  of  society  can  be  served  by  technology,  and  particularly 
whether  and  how  we  should  foster  economic  growth. 


Technology,  I'm  afraid,  is  the  only  tool 
we  have  for  dealing  with  the  problems 
that  have  been  created  by  technology. 


My  own  view  is  that  we  have  no  reasonable  alternatives. 
Someone  has  defined  a  wife  as  the  person  who  helps  you  through 
all  the  problems  you  wouldn't  have  had  if  you  had  remained 
single.  Technology,  I'm  afraid,  is  the  only  tool  we  have  for  dealing 
with  the  problems  that  have  been  created  by  technology. 

As  for  growth,  it  is  indispensable  to  the  dreams  of  millions. 
Rudolf  Klein,  a  senior  fellow  at  London's  Center  for  Studies  in 
Social  Policy,  has  warned  us  that  for  the  American  economy  to 
stop  growing  would  "simply  freeze  the  existing  social  and 
political  system  in  perpetuity. "  Applied  on  a  global  scale,  he  says, 
it  "would  in  effect  mean  condemning  the  majority  of  the  world's 
population  to  poverty  for  the  rest  of  time." 

The  real  question,  therefore,  is  whether  our  social  and  political 
systems  are  structured  in  such  a  way  as  to  take  advantage  of  the 
promise  of  technology  in  order  to  promote  beneficial  growth.  I 
submit  that  they  are  not.  Neither  do  I  believe  that  we  are  yet  in  a 
position  to  begin  the  monumental  job  of  realigning  our  priorities 
and  redesigning  our  systems. 

I  come  to  that  conclusion  from  my  own  experience.  I  am  at 
least  nominally  the  head  of  a  not-too-small  apparatus  known  as 
the  Koppers  Company — not  so  large  as  to  be  carried  forward  by  its 
own  momentum,  yet  large  enough  to  embody,  if  only  in  minia- 
ture, many  of  the  structural  pains  that  afflict  organizations  of 
greater  size,  complexity  and  scope,  such  as  world  society  at  large. 
If  I  may  be  so  immodest,  I  will  say  that  our  recent  successes  in 
fulfilling  our  role  indicate  that  we  may  be  doing  something  right, 
and  therefore  an  inspection  of  our  methodology  may  be  in  order. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  3 


Although  I  must  admit  that  when  you're  reasonably  successful, 
you're  never  sure  what  you're  doing  right.  It's  only  when  you  foul 
it  up  that  you  End  out  what  you  did  wrong. 

We  proceed  in  this  manner: 

First,  we  determine  where  we  stand  today,  in  terms  of  our 
capabilities,  our  markets,  our  competitors  and  other  factors. 

Next,  we  determine  the  mission  of  the  organization. 

We  then  take  certain  abstractions  and  make  sure  they  are 
translated  into  measurable  objectives.  Measurable  objectives. 

Only  at  this  point  do  we  lay  out  an  organization  to  accomplish 
those  objectives,  because  organizations  are  the  fundamental 
means  by  which  you  set  up  a  communications  channel  that 
allows  you  to  implement  objectives. 

Finally,  we  establish  a  sensing  system  that  will  tell  us  whether 
we  really  are  making  progress  and  to  steer  us  continually  clear  of 
unpredictable  calamity. 

To  compress  these  five  steps  into  three  tools,  we  look  for  a 
navigational  chart,  an  engine,  and  a  compass:  something  to  tell  us 
where  we're  going — something  to  propel  us  there — and  some- 
thing to  keep  us  continually  on  course. 

None  of  these  steps  is  taken  in  the  vacuum  of  our  executive 
chambers.  All  of  them  are  considered  in  the  perspective  of  the 
society  we  inhabit.  We  encourage  that  broader  outlook  by  a 
number  of  means.  For  instance,  a  few  years  ago,  I  instituted  an 
expenment  under  which  three  groups  of  our  younger  managers 
would  come  to  my  office  for  a  seminar  on  what  might  be  titled  "A 
General  Survey  of  the  Nation  and  the  World,  Past,  Present  and 
Future,  As  Seen  From  the  15th  Floor  of  the  Koppers  Building  in 
Pittsburgh. "  Each  of  the  three  groups  consisted  of  10  participants, 
and  each  of  them  met  with  me  once  a  month. 

The  program  has  now  been  expanded,  and  we  have  other 
officers  meeting  with  other  groups.  I  think  it  has  been  productive. 
At  least,  no  one  has  ever  asked  me  whether  I  wouldn't  like  to  take 
a  little  break  for  a  cup  of  hemlock. 

We  proceed  from  massive  reading  assignments  between 
sessions — everything  from  the  Club  of  Rome  reports  and  Michael 
Harnngton's  "Socialism"  to  an  article  on  soybeans  from  Scien- 
tific American  and  whatever  Professor  Galbraith  has  published 
most  recently,  which  is  a  considerable  library  in  itself.  I  don't 
know  whether  any  other  company  has  such  a  program.  I  do  know 
that,  within  10  years'  time,  we  just  might  have  the  most 
enlightened  management  team  in  the  country. 

It  is  this  background  that  leavens  the  Koppers  methodology, 
which  I  will  now  try  to  apply  to  some  of  the  issues  contemplated 
by  this  symposium. 


SURELY  A  MAJOR  CONSIDERATION  affecting  our  deliber- 
ations  on  technology  and  growth  is  a  nsing  concern  over  our 
supplies  of  food,  fuel  and  other  resources.  I  respect  the  many 
warnings,  and  would  even  add  some  of  my  own.  For  instance,  a 
good  portion  of  my  company's  activities  has  to  do  with  fossil 
fuels,  and  I  have  gone  on  record  to  say  that  we  cannot  afford  to 
bum  them  for  energy  much  longer,  but  must  restnet  them  to  use 
as  chemical  building  blocks. 

There  may  be  countering  arguments,  but  I  am  willing  to 
assume  that,  in  terms  of  the  needs  of  generations  to  come,  many 
of  the  resources  we  now  use  and  for  which  we  have  found  no 
substitutes  are  in  short  supply  and  should  be  allocated  to  avoid 
waste-  Asa  private  enterpriser,  I  am  amazed  to  hear  myself  say  SO, 
but  1  have  serious  doubts  ,is  to  whether  we  can  go  on  using  price 
as  the  sole  means  ot  allocation  in  times  of  continuing  shortage 
and  inflation  Thai  can  only  result  in  placing  the  greatesi  burden 


upon  those  at  the  bottom  of  the  economic  ladder,  who  can  lealj 
afford  it. 

In  assessing  where  we  stand  today,  we  do  well  to  avoid  whai 
call  "the  nostalgic  fallacy,"  which  assumes  that  life  was  better  I 
older,  simpler  times.  It  was  not.  More  than  a  century  ago,  Charlj 
Dickens  referred  to  my  home  city  of  Pittsburgh  as  "hell  with  tU 
lid  off."  About  half  a  century  before  that,  the  poet  Shelley  calll 
London  "a  populous  and  smoky  city,"  much  like  hell.  Around  iB 
same  time,  Samuel  Taylor  Coleridge  told  of  how  he  had  counij 
"two  and  seventy  stenches  . . .  and  several  stinks"  in  his  travel 
and  summed  up  the  hopelessness  of  the  situation  with  these  | 
words: 

The  river  Rhine,  it  is  well  known, 
Doth  wash  your  city  of  Cologne; 
But  tell  me,  Nymphs,  what  power  divine 
Shall  henceforth  wash  the  river  Rhine! 

On  the  economic  f  ront,  our  concerns  may  be  exaggerated  b} 
what  Daniel  Yankelovich  has  called  a  "galloping  psychology  c 
entitlement."  Daniel  Moynihan  argues  that,  "until  the  dislocc 
tions  caused  by  OPEC,  things  were  simply  not  as  bad  as  they  w( 
typically  portrayed."  "Things  were  better  than  they  had  been, 
he  says,  and  he  underlines  those  words.  But  then  he  adds  two 
words  of  qualification:  "Almost  everywhere." 

Almost  everywhere.  In  the  United  States,  we  have  eliminat' 
material  poverty  to  the  extent  that  anyone  working  full-time  hi 
access  to  disposable  income,  which  was  not  true  in  my  father': 
day.  Transfer  payments  take  care  of  others  on  a  scale  unpre- 
cedented in  our  history. 

Needless  to  say,  this  relatively  happy  state  does  not  prevail 
everywhere  outside  our  borders,  and  both  rationality  and 
humanitarianism  call  upon  us  to  seek  ways  for  extending  it.  T 
do  so  will  require  something  more  constructive  than  the  bittei 
railing  at  advanced  nations  we  have  heard  in  some  recent 
dialogues.  Eric  Sevareid  last  year  called  it  "highly  debatable"  th; 
the  rich  nations  should  compensate  the  poor  nations  for  their 
supposed  exploitation,  and  pointed  out  that  "many  of  the  new 
nations  insist  on  starting  out  with  a  social  welfare  society, 
bypassing  the  historical  period  of  capital  accumulation  that 
characterized  the  West  and  Japan." 

I  repeat  this  view  because  it  underlies  the  current  debate  as  t 
who  owns  the  world's  resources  and  how  the  riches  made 
possible  by  those  resources  should  be  parceled  out.  The  new 
catchword  is  "interdependence,"  and  the  concept  may  mark  a 
milestone  in  the  world's  development. 

The  British  scientist  James  Lovelock  has  offered  us  what  he 
calls  the  "Gaia  hypothesis,"  in  which  he  sees  living  matter,  air 
water  and  land  as  parts  of  a  gigantic  system  that  seems  to  "exhir. 
the  behavior  of  a  single  organism — even  a  living  creature."  Thi 
kind  of  attitude  has  been  underlined  by  Lewis  Thomas  in  his 
book,  The  Lives  of  the  Cell. 

I  believe  our  interdependence  is  just  that  organic,  and  that  if 
visitor  from  outer  space  ever  drops  in  on  us,  he  may  not  ask  to 
talk  to  our  leader.  Instead,  he  may  wish  to  talk  to  our  planet, 
which  he — or  she — will  sec  as  a  single,  complex  organization  ( 
entities  functioning  for  the  common  good. 

These  are  some  ot  the  considerations  that  occupy  our  at  ten  tn 
at  Koppers  as  we  survey  a  world  grappling  with  the  problems  o 
technology  and  growth.  Our  view  is  that  society  has  given  us  a 
t  ranch  lse  to  perform.  If  we  do  not  perform  in  useful  ways,  soeiet 
can  just  as  easily  remove  that  franchise,  and  should  remove  it. 
behooves  us,  therefore,  to  know  what  society  expects  of  us. 

That  leads  us  to  step  two — to  determine  the  mission  of  the 
organization.  Foi  Koppers,  it  is  fairly  simple     to  take  raw  mate 
rials  and  translate  them  into  material  abundance  for  the  good  I 
society. 


4    December  1976    WPI  Journal 


rofits  are  to  a  corporation  what 
reathing  is  to  a  human  being:  we 
mnot  live  without  breathing,  but 
reathing  is  not  the  purpose  of  life. 


For  those  who  must  manage  the  world's  affairs,  the  challenge  is 
uch  more  complex.  We  in  America  are  learning  from  harsh 
perience  that  while  it  may  still  be  true  that  we  can  have 
ything  we  want,  we  can  no  longer  count  on  having  everything 
i  want  all  at  the  same  time.  We  must  choose. 
Others  learned  that  lesson  a  long  time  ago.  It  is  time  now  for  all 
us,  together,  to  come  to  some  agreement  on  the  practical 
ioices  that  are  available  to  us.  As  of  today,  we  do  not  have  any 
als  on  which  there  is  reasonable  consensus. 
When  I  argue  for  consensus,  I  do  not  mean  to  imply  that  we 
iould  rush  at  once  into  a  Grand  Master  Plan.  At  this  point  in  our 
norance,  I  much  prefer  a  dredging  out  of  alternatives  for 
insideration.  I  want  to  read  the  menu  before  I  order  my  meal. 
My  modest  contribution  to  this  discussion  will  be  to  list  some 
the  options  we  must  consider. 


DO  WE  WANT  growth  of  the  kind  we  have  known  in  the 
past?  I,  for  one,  do  not  believe  that  Americans  can  go  on 
eating  an  average  of  more  than  100  pounds  of  feedlot-fattened 
beef  every  year  when  we  could  get  10  to  15  times  as  much  protein 
per  acre  by  eating  soybeans  and  grain  products  instead.  We  cannot 
continue  to  misuse  our  resources  for  lifestyles  that  are  self- 
indulgent  at  their  best  and  frivolously  wasteful  at  their  worst. 

I  think  my  position  lies  close  to  that  set  forth  by  the  Club  of 
Rome's  Mankind  at  the  Turning  Point,  which  distinguishes 
between  organic  growth  and  undifferentiated  growth.  Certainly,  I 
am  not  yet  ready  to  join  the  camp  of  those  who  tell  us  that  the 
answers  to  all  our  problems  lie  in  a  total  curbing  of  economic 
growth.  I  have  heard  this  proposition — mostly  from  people  in 
rather  comfortable  circumstances — and  I  always  respond  with  a 
standing  offer.  I  say  that  I  will  invite  them  to  visit  a  crossroads  in 
Bangladesh,  a  slum  in  South  America,  a  village  in  Africa.  All  they 
have  to  do  is  to  announce:  "Good  news,  friends!  We've  just 
decided  on  a  policy  of  zero  economic  growth  that  will  freeze 
everything  just  where  it  is."  For  my  part  of  the  bargain,  I  will 
notify  their  next  of  kin. 

I  am  persuaded  that  excessive  limitations  on  economic  growth 
will  injure  our  souls  as  well  as  our  stomachs.  We  cannot  provide 
the  tools  of  education  unless  we  first  provide  the  tools  of 
production.  We  cannot  build  great  colleges  and  universities 
unless  we  first  build  factories.  And  for  every  teacher  in  the 
schools,  there  must  be  mechanics,  farmers,  and  managers  work- 
ing to  create  the  surplus  that  makes  it  possible  for  us  to  support 
and  maintain  the  schools. 

Those  who  attack  growth  are  likely  to  attack  also  the  technol- 
ogy that  makes  it  possible.  I  remember  a  story  set  down  by  the 
late  Paul  Goodman,  "lust  the  other  day,"  he  said,  "I  listened  to  a 
young  fellow  sing  a  very  passionate  song  about  how  technology  is 

killing  us  and  all  that But  before  he  started,  he  bent  down  and 

plugged  his  electric  guitar  into  the  wall  socket." 

I  see  technology  as  a  powerful  weapon  for  decency  in  our  social 
intercourse.  It  calls  for  more  human  participation  in  decision- 
making, not  less.  It  provides  the  instant  and  full  communication 
that  is  the  enemy  of  covert  power.  It  is  moving  us  toward  a  time 
when  fewer  and  fewer  people  will  be  needed  to  produce  the 
necessities  of  life,  so  that  our  chief  concern  will  be  whether  to 
cash  in  this  greatly  improved  efficiency  for  a  new  outpouring  of 
material  goods  or  for  a  further  pursuit  of  leisure,  cultural,  and 
educational  activities.  Being  human,  we  will  likely  opt  for  both. 

Technology,  contrary  to  what  many  believe,  has  not  hastened 
the  depletion  of  our  resources.  It  has  made  it  possible  for  us  to  get 
eight  times  more  energy  from  a  ton  of  coal  than  we  did  in  1 900.  It 
has  made  it  possible  for  the  advanced  nations  to  devote  less  of 
their  gross  national  product  to  raw  materials  and  to  turn  more  of 
their  effort  toward  education  and  other  services  that  enrich 
human  life.  It  holds  the  promise  of  providing  substitutes  for  those 
materials  that  cannot  be  replaced. 

hi  dealing  with  the  consequences  of  technology,  the  choices  are 
not  always  clear.  I  will  take  only  one  example — the  continuing 
debate  over  DDT. 

It  began  with  what  seemed  like  an  unassailable  demand  by  the 
environmentalists  for  a  total  and  permanent  ban.  But  when  the 
initial  outcry  died  down,  we  found  unexpected  allies  coming  to 
the  defense  of  DDT.  Two  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  fought 
hard  to  preserve  its  use  in  dozens  of  countries.  Norman  Borlaug, 
who  won  the  1970  Nobel  Peace  Prize  for  his  work  in  helping  to 
feed  the  hungry,  said,  "No  chemical  has  ever  done  as  much  ...  to 
improve  the  health,  economic  and  social  benefits  of  the  people  of 
the  developing  nations." 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  5 


What  we  learn  from  this  and  other  controversies  is  that  the 
world  is  a  varied  place,  and  that  no  single  prescription  will  serve 
the  needs  of  even-  patient.  Some  years  ago,  I  talked  with  the  head 
of  a  Latin  American  country  who  had  his  heart  set  on  building  a 
major  petrochemical  complex.  I  would  have  welcomed  the 
business,  but  I  suggested  to  him  that  conditions  in  the  area  called 
at  that  time  for  a  labor-intensive  industry  to  help  solve  the 
problem  of  a  huge  manpower  surplus. 


WE  MOVE  ON  to  step  three— to  translate  our  abstrac- 
tions into  measurable  objectives.  For  a  corporation  such 
as  Koppers,  that  is  a  more  subtle  procedure  than  you  might  think. 

Unlike  Milton  Friedman,  I  have  contended  for  years  that 
profits  are  to  a  corporation  what  breathing  is  to  a  human  being. 
We  cannot  live  without  breathing,  and  a  corporation  cannot 
survive  without  profits.  But  breathing  is  not  the  purpose  of  life, 
and  profits  are  not  the  sole  purpose  of  management. 

I  spoke  earlier  of  the  implicit  franchise  under  which  we 
operate.  Its  various  clauses  can  eventually  be  boiled  down  to 
measurable  objectives.  The  job  is  infinitely  more  complex  when 
it  comes  to  measuring  objectives  for  our  world  society. 

The  danger  lies  in  the  fact  that  there  is  a  tendency  to  concen- 
trate upon  phenomena  that  lend  themselves  to  easy  quantifica- 
tion and  to  slight  those  that  do  not.  We  have  not  yet  invented  a 
way  to  put  numbers  to  such  problems  as  the  despair  of  an 
able-bodied  man  who  is  comfortably  supported  by  the  state,  but 
who  has  lost  self-respect  because  he  cannot  find  employment. 

This  is  significant  because  there  is  a  strong  body  of  belief  to  the 
effect  that,  in  order  to  deliver  the  greatest  good  to  the  greatest 
number,  we  should  direct  our  social  expenditures  where  they  will 
give  us  the  best  return  on  our  investment.  I  realize  that  our 
programs  must  sometimes  respond  to  immediate  need,  if  only 
because  we  are  inherently  creatures  of  compassion.  But  I  realize, 
too,  that  we  will  never  have  money  enough  or  time  enough  to 
meet  all  the  demands,  and  so  we  will  come  to  difficult  choices. 
Unless  we  make  those  choices  correctly,  we  may  find  ourselves 
m  the  position  of  the  worker  wasp,  which  is  so  frantic  about 
nourishing  its  young  that  if  it  cannot  find  any  other  food,  it  will 
bite  off  the  back  half  of  the  grub  and  try  to  feed  it  to  the  front. 

In  any  consideration  of  technology  and  growth,  and  of  their 
consequences,  we  must  turn  eventually  to  the  prophets  among 
us  We  have  no  shortage  of  soothsayers  who  are  cheerfully  eager 
to  sketch  out  toi  us  what  the  world  will  be  like  20,  SO,  100  years 
from  now.  Yet  I  remember  diat  in  1933,  President  Roosevelt 
called  together  a  panel  ot  distinguished  experts  to  tell  us  what 
changes  we  could  expect  in  the  next  quarter-century.  Missing 
from  then  list  were  such  basic  things  as  electronics,  antibiotics, 
rocketry  and  space  flight. 

In  l°47,  the  Census  Bureau  projected  a  population  figure  of  160 
million  Americans  by  1970.  It  said  that  would  rise  by  1990  to  the 
incredible  total  ot  165  million,  hut  would  tall  hack  to  L63  million 
by  the  year  2000. 

\(iw  there  is  nothing  more  basic  to  the  art  ot  national 
forecasting  than  the  size  ot  the  population  That  is  what  we  use 
when  we  plan  highways,  when  we  make  capital  investments  fol 
telephone  service,  when  we  estimate  oui  needs  tor  housing  and 
health  facilities,  dishes  and  diapers  I  imagine  it  figured  in  the 
decision  to  commit  mote  than  S.1  million  lot  the  refurbishing  ot 
Salisbury  Hall 

I  el  us  assume  thai  we  are  now  wisei  and  more  sophisticated 
than  we  were  three  oi  foui  decades  ago    aftei  all,  the  early 
i  omputers  were  awkward,  i  Linking  monsters  compared  with 
what  we  have'  toda\    and  thai  we  will  indeed  be  able  to  translate 
our  abstractions  into  measurable  objectives 


Our  governmental  system  does  not 
encourage  something  like  the  act  of 
faith  that  prompts  a  man  to  plant  a  tr( 
when  he  knows  it  will  not  bear  fruit 
within  his  lifetime. 


WE  COME  THEN  to  step  four — to  lay  out  an  organizatu 
that  can  accomplish  these  objectives.  The  adventure 
that  first  landed  astronauts  on  the  moon  has  been  cited  as  an 
example  of  how  men  can  organize  their  efforts  toward  a  detinal 
goal,  but  it  is  notable  because  it  is  practically  unique.  In  varioi 
degrees,  our  institutions  are  less  than  ideally  suited  for  the 
functions  they  are  supposed  to  perform. 

I  will  not  exempt  the  business  corporation  from  that  kindc 
criticism.  I  happen  to  view  it  as  a  logical  form  that  has  de\  elcH 
naturally  out  of  an  instinct  that  drives  us  to  look  for  wavs  to  m, 
the  most  efficient  use  of  manpower,  energy,  resources  and 
ingenuity  for  the  good  ot  humanity.  I  believe,  further,  that  thi 
private  enterprise  system  under  which  it  operates  is  the  Inst 
mechanism  yet  devised  tor  the  constructive  exploitation  ot 
surplus.  I  am  not  as  sure  that  the  system  will  work  as  well  in 
times  of  scarcity,  but  when  I  consider  the  alternatives,  I  re- 
member what  the  Socialist  Michael  I  larrington  has  written 
about  socialist  nations  -  that  in  most  cases  they  have  siicccd 
only  in  the  collectivization  ot  poverty. 


all  the  things  that  I  have  observed  about  corporations,  the 
disturbing  has  been  a  tendency  toward  overorganization, 
icing  a  rigidity  that  is  intolerable  in  a  time  of  rapidly 
erating  change.  I  had  not  been  at  Koppers  very  long  before  I 
vered  that  our  organization  charts  were  telling  each  of  us 
•  about  what  we  couldn't  do  than  about  what  we  could  do. 
ie  structural  problems  of  corporations  are  as  nothing  com- 
1  with  those  of. our  political  institutions,  which  simply  are 
eared  to  deal  with  the  future.  Our  federal  government  is  a 
igerial  nightmare.  It  is  life  a  200-year-old  house  that  has  had 
cession  of  new  heating  plants,  new  wiring,  new 
ibing — without  ever  ripping  out  the  old  heating  plants,  the 
/iring,  the  old  plumbing.  The  basic  design  is  good,  but  the 
ture  is  being  destroyed  by  "improvements." 
on't  wish  to  be  too  hard  on  the  bureaucrats.  They  are  the 
ms  of  a  system  that  motivates  our  leaders  on  the  basis  of 
:-term  performance.  In  today's  technology,  it  takes  eight  to 
ears  to  work  out  our  problems.  It  takes  legislation  about  20 
.  from  conception  to  execution.  We  cope  with  these  condi- 
i  through  officials  whose  vision  stops  at  a  horizon  only  two  to 
*ars  away  at  most,  when  they  must  again  face  the  voters.  Our 
•m  does  not  encourage  something  like  the  act  of  faith  that 
lpts  a  man  to  plant  a  tree  when  he  knows  it  will  not  bear  fruit 
in  his  lifetime. 

lave  seen  the  problem  close  up  in  the  field  of  health  care.  I 
;  held  volunteer  posts  at  two  hospitals,  two  schools  of 
icine,  a  regional  Blue  Cross  organization,  and  the  Subcom- 
ee  on  Organizing  and  Financing  of  a  National  Health  Care 
em  of  the  Committee  for  Economic  Development.  I  served 
number  of  years  as  chairman  of  a  county  Hospital  Planning 
)ciation. 

that  last  post,  I  was  appalled — I  am  still  appalled — at  the  fact 
we  could  agree  on  our  mission  and  we  could  set  our 
ctives,  but  then  found  we  were  encumbered  by  an  organiza- 
al  structure  that  could  not  function.  I  was  and  am  appalled  at 
spital  system  that  was  established  for  another  day  and 
her  set  of  problems,  that  is  now  trying  to  be  used  to  deliver 
th  care  in  a  highly  technological  society  with  major  changes 
;mography. 

you  combine  that,  with  a  deadly  penchant  for  redundancy  in 
ical  facilities,  is  why  my  enthusiasm  for  a  national  health 
ranee  program  is  tempered  by  caution.  I  favor  such  a  pro- 
n,  but  I  know  that  if  we  fund  it  now,  without  basic  changes  in 
delivery  system,  we  will  cast  in  concrete  a  system  that  cannot 
he  job. 


1UST  ADMIT  that  I  have  no  precise  idea  as  to  how  we 
lould  restructure  our  institutions,  and  I  doubt  that  we  should 
to  do  so  until  we  have  carried  out  the  first  three  steps  in  the 
-Jhodology  I  have  been  discussing.  I  do  know  that  most  of  our 
itutions — private,  governmental  and  humanitarian — are  too 
msy  to  cope  with  a  world  in  transition.  They  react  to  stimuli 
:ead  oi  anticipating  them,  and  their  responses  are  too  slow  and 
feeble. 

know,  too,  that  in  our  attempts  to  restructure  our  political 
anizations,  we  cannot  forever  tolerate  the  sovereignty  of 
|  ion-states.  The  Rhine,  with  its  two  and  seventy  stenches, 
ins  in  Switzerland  and  flows  for  820  miles  across  the  face  of 
ope  to  the  North  Sea.  It  will  remain  a  sewer  until  some 
•ranational  body,  in  effect,  operates  the  Rhine  river  basin 
ler  the  discipline  of  cost-benefit  analysis,  with  the  authority  to 
pose  sanctions  upon  the  sovereign  states  through  which  the 


river  flows.  Air  and  water  pollution  are  no  respecter  of  bound- 
aries. The  Swedes  say  that  their  largest  import  is  polluted  air  from 
the  United  Kingdom.  In  addition,  we  are  entering  an  age  in  which 
we  will  explore  the  ocean  depths  on  a  massive  scale  for  fuel,  food 
and  other  resources.  We  have  as  yet  no  clearly  defined  rules  to 
ensure  that  we  will  do  so  on  an  orderly  and  equitable  basis. 

I  do  not  go  so  far  as  to  propose  that  we  submit  ourselves  to  a 
global  government,  however  benevolent  it  might  be.  I  see  some 
advantage  in  political  compartmentalization.  It  permits  us  to 
follow  different  paths  of  experimentation  and  then  to  share  the 
secrets  of  our  individual  successes.  Just  as  importantly,  it  permits 
each  of  us  to  indulge  in  the  pursuit  of  creative  errors,  learning 
from  those  errors  and  passing  on  the  lessons  without  the  danger 
of  bringing  down  all  of  civilization. 

Given  all  that  I  have  said,  we  move  to  the  final  step,  which  is  to 
set  up  a  sensing  system  that  will  tell  us  whether  we  really  are 
making  progress. 

Such  a  system  must  detect  advances  and  setbacks  more 
accurately  than  ever  before — and  more  quickly.  We  do  fairly  well 
with  single  factors,  but  when  it  comes  to  the  interplay  of 
variables,  we  are  often  perplexed.  For  instance,  we  cannot  agree 
on  the  environmental  economics  of  using  recycled  paper — on  the 
relative  safety  and  benefits  of  nuclear  versus  conventional  power 
plants — on  methods  for  the  disposal  of  solid  wastes — on  whether 
the  application  of  DDT  does  more  harm  than  good. 

In  spite  of  these  enigmas — in  spite  of  all  the  woeful  predictions 
I  have  been  reading  lately — I  am  not  a  pessimist.  I  have  said  that, 
given  our  present  state  of  knowledge  and  organization,  it  is 
premature  to  propose  solutions.  Nevertheless,  the  process  must 
begin,  and  soon.  If  I  observe  a  man  swimming  out  to  sea,  I  can 
hope  that  he  will  come  across  a  raft,  that  a  ship  will  spot  him  and 
pick  him  up,  or  that  he  will  turn  around  and  swim  back  to  shore 
before  he  is  exhausted.  But  I  know  that  if  none  of  these  things 
happens,  and  if  the  man  continues  to  swim  out  to  sea,  he's  not 
going  to  get  to  the  opposite  shore,  he  will  eventually  drown. 

But — I  repeat — I  am  not  a  pessimist.  I  am  encouraged  by  many 
signs  of  new  vitality  in  this  200-year-old  structure  of  ours.  One  of 
those  signs  is  what  you  are  doing  here  at  WPI  to  stimulate  the 
creation  of  interfaces  among  the  various  fields  of  study.  Not  long 
ago,  George  Cabot  Lodge,  a  professor  at  the  Harvard  Business 
School,  former  assistant  secretary  of  labor,  and  author  of  The 
New  American  Ideology,  commented  on  the  need  for  perception 
of  whole  systems.  He  said,  "The  old  idea  of  scientific  specializa- 
tion has  given  way  to  a  new  consciousness  of  the  interrelatedness 
of  all  things."  He  spoke  of  the  "long  dark  tunnels"  called 
disciplines,  and  concluded: 

"The  student  has  come  to  wonder  whether  this  kind  of 
education  is  what  he  needs  to  understand  the  world — whether,  in 
fact,  what  is  truly  important  is  not  what  ties  the  tunnels  together 
and  how  they  are  related  to  one  another." 

You  might  want  to  invite  Professor  Lodge  to  make  the  short 
trip  over  here  to  Worcester.  He  would  find,  as  I  have  found,  not  a 
series  of  tunnels,  but  a  broad  highway  carrying  vehicles  (if  you 
don't  mind  my  calling  you  people  vehicles)  of  every  description 
and  leading  to  a  variety  of  destinations,  with  every  foot  of  the  way 
illuminated  by  the  beacons  of  knowledge  and  inquiry. 

UIPI 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  7 


The  need  for  growth 


Herman  Kahn  is  founder  and  director  of  the  Hudson  Institute.  He  is 
author  of  the  recent  best-seller,  The  Next  200  Years:  A  Scenario  for 
America  and  the  World  With  degrees  in  physics  and  mathematics 
from  the  University  of  California  and  California  Institute  of  Technology, 
his  optimistic  beliefs  about  the  future  are  based  on  an  appreciation  of 
the  technology  which,  coupled  with  a  humanistic  approach,  can  bring 
about  the  near-Utopia  he  envisions  Before  he  founded  the  Hudson 
Institute  in  1961 ,  Kahn  spent  14  years  with  the  RAND  Corporation  as  a 
senior  physicist  and  military  analyst  He  serves  as  a  consultant  for  many 
governmental  agencies  and  industrial  firms 


by  Herman  Kahn 

WE  TALK  A  LOT  about  predicting  the  future  and  about 
getting  consensus.  I  make  my  living  doing  that.  But  like 
many  people  who  make  a  living  in  a  given  field,  I  don't  believe  a 
word  of  it. 

I  could  name  about  ten  historic  examples  of  people  setting  oui 
large  programs  with  clear  objectives,  and  they  worked  out  — 
Augustan  Rome,  our  own  canal  system  laid  out  by  the  Secretary 
of  the  Treasury,  and  so  on.  You  can  count  them  on  the  fingers  ot 
two  hands.  Almost  everything  else  has  grown  —  and  when  you 
grow  something,  you're  not  quite  sure  where  it's  going  to  go.  You 
have  to  trust  the  system.  There's  a  lot  of  luck  in  it,  and  a  lot  of 
internal  momentum. 

Let's  take  population  predictions  as  an  example.  First,  let  me 
poll  the  group  here.  If  you  were  president  of  the  United  Statesand 
could  somehow  actually  control  future  population,  how  many  ot 
you  would  be  in  favor  of  a  somewhat  increased  growth  rate  forth 
U.S.  population  today?  How  many  in  favor  of  leaving  it  alone? 
How  many  in  favor  of  decreasing  it?  All  right,  you're  a  very 
balanced  group,  roughly  one-third  for  each  alternative. 

I  was  recently  in  Houston,  Texas,  to  talk  to  a  group  of  Clubot 
Rome  people.  I  asked  them  the  same  questions.  They  voted  abom 
95  percent  in  favor  of  reducing  population  growth  in  the  United 
States.  I  then  asked  how  many  of  them  knew  the  consequences  o: 
their  action;  that  is,  how  many  had  a  right  to  an  opinion.  They  all 
claimed  to  have  done  their  homework.  And  then  I  showed  then1 
the  following  chart.  The  population  growth  rate  used  to  be 
roughly  7  children  per  family  in  the  United  States  in  1 800.  It  wen 
down  to  2. 1 ,  which  is  the  rate  which  would  have  led  to  those  194 
Census  Bureau  predictions  Fletcher  Byrom  mentioned.  Then 
American  women  got  frivolous,  and  the  rate  went  up  to  3 
something.  Now  it's  back  to  1.8.  If  it  stays  at  1.8,  we  have  a 
declining  population  around  the  year  2005  with  mostly  old 
people  and  relatively  few  young  people.  If  you  decrease  the  rate, 
you  make  that  division  very  sharp.  If  you  decrease  it  for  a  while 
and  then  increase  it,  we  have  an  hourglass-shaped  population 
distribution,  with  old  people  and  young  people  and  no  one  in  th 
middle.  Now,  very  few  people  in  the  United  States  like  the 
demography  with  more  old  people  than  young  people,  ami  so  B 
facto  they  don't  want  to  decrease  the  growth  rate.  And  they  don't 
want  to  leave  it  alone,  either.  They  want  it  to  increase  and  get 
hack  to  2.1.  My  own  guess  is  that  the  rate  is  going  to  get  back 
there,  hut  that's  only  a  guess. 

Obviously,  it's  very  difficult  to  predict  .my thing  like  this.  Tin 
is  the  kind  of  uncertainty  that,  by  the  way,  has  caused  the 
collapse  ot  almost  every  demographer  in  the  world  who's  tried  In 
hand  on  it  You  know  how  they  will  issue  a  high,  low,  and 
median?  It  always  comes  out  lower  than  low  or  higher  thanhiB 
In  every  case.  C  )ne  moral  here  is,  Don't  try  to  predict  population 


8/ December  1976   WPI  Journal 


Population  growth  rate  dropped 
because  children  changed  from  being 
producers  to  consumers,  and  people 
tend  to  ration  themselves  in  consumer 
goods. 


iodem  society.  It  turns  out  to  be  unbelievably  frivolous  and 
dent  upon  fashion. 

ond  moral:  When  we  had  the  7+  rate,  a  lot  of  people  were 
;ting  one  billion,  two  billion  population  in  the  United  States 
i  mid- 1 9th  century.  But  it  actually  went  down,  as  you  know, 
itself.  There  wasn't  a  single  government  program  to  cause 
ich  was  very  unfortunate.  If  there  had  been  such  a  program, 
ild  have  been  incredibly  successful,  and  whoever  was  in 
e  would  have  gone  down  in  history  as  the  man  who  saved 
iuntry.  But  unfortunately  nobody  had  the  idea.  You  under- 
,  any  program  at  all  would  have  worked,  including  this 
h  of  mine. 

ly  did  the  population  growth  rate  drop  so  drastically? 
min  Franklin  once  made  the  comment  that  the  easiest  way 
i  American  to  get  rich  would  be  to  marry  a  widow  with 
children.  Don't  try  that  today.  It's  a  prescription  for 
arptcy.  Can  you  imagine  buying  nine  tickets  wherever  you 
asically,  children  changed  from  being  producers  to  being 
imers,  to  put  the  situation  in  its  bluntest  terms.  When  I  look 
i '  young  children  I  love  them,  but  I  don't  think  of  them  as 
)mic  assets.  And  people  tend  to  ration  themselves  in 
imer  goods. 

the  Club  of  Rome  festival  in  Houston,  I  commented  that  on 
issue  I  was  going  to  talk  about,  most  of  them  were  about  as 
ant  of  the  facts  as  they  had  just  showed  themselves  to  be  on 
iation.  And  here  I'm  talking  about  resources,  energy,  food, 
hole  new  style  of  lif e  —  what's  causing  it  and  where  it's 
,.  This  is  another  reason  why  I  don't  like  too  much  planning, 
n  talked  a  lot  about  having  sensors  to  see  the  future.  We've 
lly  got  an  incredible  number  of  sensors,  but  no  one's  looking 
;m.  It's  all  fashion  in  the  discussions.  Remember  fashion  — 
ever  people  happen  to  feel  is  interesting  that  month,  and  it 
s.  It  has  very  little  to  do  with  anything  based  upon  data  or 
)  observation  of  the  scene. 

t  me  ask  another  question.  How  many  of  you  expect  that  in 
Dng  run,  say  the  next  50  to  100  years,  your  children  will  live 
e  than  you,  or  about  the  same,  or  better,  because  of  technol- 
ind  the  defects  of  technology?  I'm  asking  about  running  out 
)d,  resources,  the  whole  Club  of  Rome  position.  I  suspect  the 
:rs  are  going  to  have  it  correct.  But  we  don't  really  know,  of 
se. 


I'D  LIKE  TO  SUMMARIZE  400  years  of  history.  About  200 
years  ago,  mankind  was  just  entering  the  industrial  revolution. 
Before  that,  the  per  capita  income — for  all  its  difficulties,  that's  a 
useful  expression  —  was  generally  between  $100  and  $300. 
Anybody  over  $300  was  very  rich;  anybody  under  $100  was  very 
poor;  $200  was  sort  of  normal.  In  India  today  the  figure  is  about 
$  1 50,  but  that's  pretty  comparable  to  the  $200  of  200  years  ago,  so 
we  can  think  of  India  as  normal.  Indonesia  is  normal.  If  you  ask, 
Why  are  Indians  and  Indonesians  poor?  it's  because  for  10,000 
years,  ever  since  civilization  started,  that's  the  way  people  have 
lived.  It's  a  perfectly  natural  phenomenon.  As  Byrom  said,  you 
have  to  go  through  a  process  of  capital  accumulation  and 
increased  productivity.  The  problem  is  not  in  distribution.  The 
problem  is  in  increasing  the  productivity  and  the  capital  in  India, 
not  of  giving  them  charity. 

In  that  sense,  200  years  ago  mankind  was  everywhere  poor, 
almost  everywhere  powerless  before  the  forces  of  nature.  Two 
hundred  years  from  now,  barring  bad  management  and  bad  luck, 
mankind  should  be  almost  everywhere  numerous  —  we're 
talking  about  1 5  billion  people,  give  or  take  a  factor  or  two  and  we 
won't  be  annoyed  if  we  miss  it.  Everywhere  rich — about  $20,000 
per  capita,  give  or  take  a  factor  of  three.  Almost  everywhere  in 
control  of  the  forces  of  nature.  This  400-year  period  should  be  the 
most  exciting  time  in  man's  history.  I  used  to  comment  that 
there  were  only  two  incidents  worthy  of  notice  in  the  world  — 
the  agricultural  revolution,  which  created  civilization,  and  this 
industrial  revolution  now  underway.  The  first  took  about  8,000 
years  to  spread  around  the  world;  the  second  looks  like  it  will  be 
done  in  400  years.  That's  fast! 

You've  heard  of  the  population  explosion.  Have  you  heard  of 
the  GNP  explosion?  Since  1950,  gross  world  product  has  in- 
creased about  5  percent  a  year.  That's  a  doubling  every  14  years. 
It's  growth  by  a  factor  of  more  than  10  every  50  years;  more  than 
100  in  a  century;  and  by  a  factor  of  10,000  in  200  years.  If  that  rate 
were  maintained  for  many  decades,  you'd  have  no  problem  with 
poverty  in  the  world.  And  you  don't  have  to  worry  about 
distribution.  In  every  country  that  has  gotten  rich,  the  distribu- 
tion problems  have  tended  to  solve  themselves,  at  least  in  terms 
of  absolute  poverty.  Relative  poverty  we'll  always  have.  How 
many  of  you,  by  the  way,  have  felt  recently  depressed  because 
you  don't  live  as  well  as  a  Rockefeller?  I  asked  that  once  with  a 
Rockefeller  in  the  room,  and  he  was  shocked.  You  people  look 
desperately  poor  to  him.  It  always  looks  worse  from  the  top  down 
than  horn  the  bottom  up.  Almost  everywhere  people  worry  a  lot 
about  gaps,  it's  from  the  top  down,  not  the  other  way  around. 

I'm  not  particularly  a  believer  in  limits  to  growth,  but  I  don't 
believe  the  gross  world  product  will  be  10,000  times  larger  200 
years  from  now.  And  why  am  I  interested  in  gross  world  product 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  9 


anyway?  Is  it  a  mindless  concern  for  growth?  (You  know,  the 
current  term  is  gross  national  pollution  —  the  effluent  society.) 
People  talk  about  mindless  growth  a  lot.  I  don't  know  of  a  single 
country  where  they're  not  arguing  over  the  distribution  of  the 
gross  national  product.  They  know  exactly  what  they  want  it  for, 
and  they're  arguing  about  it.  I  know  of  no  country  in  the  world 
which  is  growing  mindlessly.  They  iust  don't  exist.  Each  of  them 
has  a  bill  of  needs  they'd  like  to  fill,  and  they  can't  unless  their 
gross  national  product  increases. 

There's  not  a  total  consensus  on  this.  Some  people  say  these 
needs  are  silly,  and  here  I  want  to  disagree  with  Byrom.  We  don't 
waste  a  great  deal  in  this  country,  if  you  look  at  the  actual  costs 
and  the  way  people  behave.  Except  for  a  three-  or  four-year  period 
when  we  were  putting  out  really  badly  designed  cars  and  electri- 
cal appUances,  I  know  of  very  few  things  in  the  United  States 
which  represent  a  lot  of  waste. 

Now,  you  may  ask  the  following  question:  Why  would  you  put 
an  air  conditioner  in  a  car  which  has  enough  btu  output  to  cool  a 
small  two-bedroom  house?  Isn't  it  a  waste?  Well  it  just  happens 
that  when  people  go  into  a  car  on  a  hot  day  they  don't  want  to 
wait  two  minutes  for  it  to  cool  off.  Have  you  ever  tried  it?  They 
want  it  cool  in  10  seconds.  And  you  know  something?  They're 
nght,  they're  absolutely  right.  They  can  afford  it,  and  under 
normal  conditions  the  energy  was  there.  The  energy  will  be  there 
again. 


I  WANT  TO  DISAGREE  with  Fletcher  Byrom 's  comment  that 
we  should  stan  thinking  of  fossil  fuels  primarily  as  a  base  for 
petrochemicals.  Now  it  is  true,  the  engineer  is  very  upset  at  that. 
It  s  a  little  bit  like  using  a  human  being  as  a  horse  for  pulling 
something.  A  human  being  is  a  complicated  thing,  and  there 
ought  to  be  a  higher  use  for  it.  Hydrocarbons  are  incredibly 
complicated  substances,  and  the  idea  of  burning  them  in  a 
furnace  stnkes  most  engineers  as  somehow  rather  destructive. 
Unfortunately,  there  are  so  many  hydrocarbons  left  in  the  world 
that,  if  you  tned  to  use  them  for  petrochemicals  alone,  the 
exhaustion  point,  where  they  get  to  roughly  SO  cents  per  million 
btu  \  is  measured  in  the  hundreds  of  billions  of  years.  Now,  I  look 
ahead  . . .  but  I  don't  hx>k  ahead  that  far! 

\s  near  .is  I  can  see,  we  have  enough  hydrocarbons  to  use  at  a 
reasonable  price  for  burning  purposes  —  heat  —  until  well  into 
the  22nd  century.  I  think  that  in  the  early  21st  century  we're 
going  to  move  to  more  or  less  eternal  supplies  of  energy,  things 
which  are  self-renewing,  it  you  will.  So  we  have  a  100-year 
overlap  between  running  out  for  the  purposes  ot  fuel  and  being 
able  to  replace  with  basically  eternal  sources.  We  have  about 
eight  alternatives  foi  the  eternal  source,  and  they  all  look  like 
they'll  be  competitive  around  the  year  20(K).  At  this  point,  we 
don't  know  which  one  ot  the  eight  it's  going  to  be.  I  have  no  idea 
at  all   It  mi^it  just  end  up  being  the  boiling  water  reactor  we 
already  use,  where  we  will  be  dependent  upon  very  low-grade 
uranium  ore  -  what  you  find  ofl  Norway ,  <>i  in  shalesoi  in 
granite  It  might  be  fusion  power  It  will  almost  certainly  involve 
some  solar  powei 

I'm  not  going  tOguesSj  I  have  no  idea    I  hey  all  look  competi- 
It  somebody  tells  you  be  feels  we're  going  to  run  out  of 
energy,  he's  either  worrying  about  some  extraordinarily  remote 
threat,  or  he's  paranoid  or  foolish  oi  ignorant.  I'd  like  to  make  the 

point  just  tb.it  strong  Now,  he  might  tell  you,  it  we  don't  invest 
the  capital  we  won't  have  am  ot  these  tilings,  and  there  I  think 
he's  right    hut  thit.ipit.il  is  being  invested,  particularly  in 

research  and  development 


Byrom  commented  that  the  price  system  doesn't  work  per- 
fectly. That's  certainly  correct.  But  we're  doing  a  study  called 
"The  Long  Term  Prospects  of  Mankind,"  and  we're  desperately , 
trying  to  find  situations  where  we  can  say  the  price  system  ther« 
is  just  wrong,  because  that  will  make  us  look  very  good  and 
non-ideological.  So  we're  looking  hard  for  any  place  where  we  cat, 
say,  "Don't  use  the  dollar  as  a  signal."  And  boy,  when  we  find 
that,  are  we  going  to  be  pleased,  and  we're  going  to  plaster  it  all 
over  the  world! 

What  I  am  saying  here  is  subject  to  one  important  caveat:  thl 
in  principle  the  costs  are  internalized.  In  other  words,  a 
businessman  really  has  to  look  at  what  his  profits  are,  and  that 
really  is  his  guide  except  for  something  called  decent  behavior. 
But  it's  terribly  important  that  when  he  does  something  which  is 
socially  costly,  like  dumping  pollutants  into  a  river,  or  creating! 
work  environment  which  is  harmful  to  the  people  concerned, 
that  he  either  be  forbidden  to  do  that  or  that  he  be  charged  for  it  tc 
discourage  him. 

So  I've  made  the  assumption  that  we've  internalized  costs.  But 
this  turns  out  to  be  very  difficult,  because  we  don't  know  what 
the  costs  should  be.  We  have  no  consensus,  and  will  not  achieves 
consensus,  on  what  the  appropriate  value  systems  are.  Take  the 
Alaska  pipeline.  The  delay  that  the  Sierra  Club  caused  the  Alaskj 
pipeline  can  be  split  into  two  pieces.  The  first  part,  which 
Governor  Hickel  says  he  caused,  not  them,  was  due  to  a  badly 
designed  pipeline.  That  first-year  delay  was  justified,  and  the 
pipeline  was  redesigned  and  passed  the  proper  reviews.  The  nex 
five-year  delay  cost  this  country  at  least  $25  billion  in  foreign 
exchange.  My  own  guess  is  that  the  total  cost  to  the  country  will 
be  well  over  $50  billion  before  we're  finished.  That's  a  lot  for 
about  12  square  miles  out  of  500,000. 1  could  stick  you  at  random 
in  Alaska,  and  you  couldn't  find  the  pipeline.  The  caribou  loveit, 
it  turns  out,  and  the  Eskimos  approve.  One  would  have  thoughl 
that  $25  billion,  maybe  $50  billion  in  costs,  is  a  little  excessive  fc 
preserving  a  landscape  which  nobody  really  wants  preserved.  Yo 
go  to  the  Sierra  Club  today,  and  they'll  tell  you,  No,  that  was  a 
moral  decision  on  their  part.  All  right,  maybe  it's  moral,  but  it's 
also  damn  dumb  by  the  value  system  of  almost  all  Amencans  - 
but  not  by  theirs.  They're  entitled  to  their  value  systems,  but 
they're  not  necessarily  entitled  to  thrust  them  upon  the  rest  of  Ul 


Why  are  Indians  and  Indonesians 
poor?  Because  for  10,000  years,  that 
the  way  people  have  lived.  It's 
perfectly  natural. 


10    December  1976/ WPI  Journal 


even  use  that  argument  for  things  like  the  extinction  of 
J  ;s.  Perhaps  20  or  30  billion  species  have  become  extinct 
i  world  history  started.  On  the  face  of  it,  adding  a  few  to  that 
|  lot  be  a  terrible  thing  to  do.  Now,  I'd  be  terribly  upset  if  the 

2  became  extinct,  or  the  grizzly  bear  or  the  eagle,  because 
<  represent  something  to  my  culture.  But  how  do  you  feel 

1 1  the  passenger  pigeon?  The  last  one  died  in  Cincinnati  in 
,  Anybody  want  to  mourn  it?  The  skies  were  dark  with  them 
|  d  so  was  the  ground.  If  you  want  to  talk  about  pollution,  you 
'  d  live  with  passenger  pigeons. 

com  was  absolutely  right  when  he  said  there  were  no  good 
1  ays.  I  have  talked  to  high  school  kids  in  both  Pittsburgh  and 
on.  Not  one  of  those  kids  knew  their  city  was  clean.  They 
*ht  the  environment  had  steadily  deteriorated.  They  had  no 
hat  twenty  years  ago,  in  Pittsburgh,  you  used  to  change  your 
four  or  five  times  a  day,  depending  on  whether  you  wanted 
filthy  or  just  dirty.  They  had  no  idea  what  pollution  is. 
>dy  bums  soft  coal  anymore,  and  you  have  no  horses.  The 
ge  horse,  by  the  way,  leaves  a  kilogram  of  pollutants  per 
60  percent  solid,  40  percent  liquid.  A  very  small  number  of 
'  :s  on  a  dry  or  wet  day  can  create  unbelievable  havoc.  I've 
1  in  horse  towns,  and  they're  unbelievably  unpleasant. 
e's  nothing  remotely  like  it  in  Los  Angeles  or  New  York. 
I'm  not  talking  about  a  lot  of  horses  —  just  a  few  for  the  rich, 

3  enough. 

lat  I'm  trying  to  say  is  that  much  of  the  discussion  is  at  an 
■  dibly  low  level.  I  use  the  phrase  educated  incapacity.  It 
r  ;s  from  Veblen,  who  used  the  term  "trained  incapacity."  By 
1  be  meant  many  things,  among  which  was  "the  inability  of 
ilogists  and  engineers  to  deal  with  simple  issues  they  could 
handled  if  they  had  not  had  graduate  training."  Is  the 
'  ept  clear?  I  give  the  term  "educated  incapacity"  a  larger  role. 
1  's,  look  at  the  educated  elites. 

1  lis  is  not  a  world-wide  phenomenon.  It's  largely  restricted  to 
i  and  what  we  call  the  Atlantic  partisan  culture  —  Scan- 
\  /ia,  Holland,  England,  U.S.,  Canada,  Australia,  New  Zea- 

Holland  is  probably  the  greatest  example  I  have  ever  seen. 
'  book  Limits  to  Growth  sold  500,000  copies  there  in  about 
:  weeks.  There  are  only  12  million  people  in  the  whole 
'  try.  Each  intellectual  must  have  at  least  three  copies!  (I'm 
!  i  a  little  unfair,  because  it  was  sold  through  the  high-school 
:m.)  Holland  has  no  Viet  Nam,  no  poverty,  the  pollution  all 
es  from  the  outside,  and  no  race  problems  —  and  yet  it's  got 
le  difficulties  we  had  in  the  late  60's.  It  has  the  dropout  kids, 
he  only  place  in  the  world  where  they  publish  the  price  of 
juana  in  the  newspaper  —  bid,  asked.  It  has  the  provos,  who 
nore  extreme  than  our  Yippie  movement,  and  it's  got  every 
1  y  fashion  I  know  of.  And  that  tells  me  something  terribly 
resting.  These  fashions  have  very  little  to  do  with  the  actual 
orical  data,  the  hard  facts  of  life;  they  have  to  do  with 
.  orical  culture.  They  have  to  do  with  the  way  children  are 
zd  and  the  attitudes  their  parents  have, 
or  example,  almost  every  prestige  school  in  the  United  States, 
n  about  1968  to  1975,  taught  limits  to  growth,  generally  in  an 
erne  fashion.  The  usual  picture  they  gave  you  was,  America  is 
oi  the  world's  population  and  is  using  up  lA  of  the  world's 
mrces,  and  this  is  the  greatest  crime  in  history.  It's  the  greatest 
'  crime  in  history,  because  it's  going  to  condemn  millions  of 
pie  to  death  by  starvation.  (I  use  the  term  war  crime  advisedly. 
ring  war  you're  allowed  to  do  all  kinds  of  things  which  you 
't  do  in  peacetime,  but  even  in  war  there  are  very  clear  limits, 
ending  on  the  country,  as  to  what  you  can  do.  You  can't  do 
thing  you  want.  You  get  punished  if  they  catch  you,  and  then 


They  had  no  idea  that  twenty  years 
ago,  in  Pittsburgh,  you  used  to  change 
your  shirt  four  or  five  times  a  day, 
depending  on  whether  you  wanted  to 
be  filthy  or  just  dirty. 


you're  really  looked  upon  with  absolute  contempt.)  If  all  this 
were  true,  that  would  be  the  biggest  war  crime  in  history,  and 
anybody  who's  not  opposing  it,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  would  be 
a  war  criminal.  You're  not  allowed  to  stand  aside  in  those 
circumstances. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  / 1 1 


IN  FACT,  the  major  reason  for  the  wealth  of  most  of  the  world  is 
the  growth  of  Europe,  America,  and  Japan.  And  the  maior  reason 
for  this  very  high  growth  rate  I'm  talking  about,  5  percent,  is  the 
41 1  percent  growth  rate  of  the  rich  which  makes  for  a  6  percent 
growth  in  the  poor.  It's  one  of  the  greatest  feats  in  world  history. 

Let  me  just  talk  about  this  picture  of  the  world  for  a  moment. 
How  many  of  you  believe  that  half  the  world  goes  to  bed  hungry 
at  night?  You've  heard  that  statement  over  and  over  again.  And 
it's  not  true.  It's  a  mistake  in  arithmetic  made  by  Lloyd  Bodor, 
head  of  the  FAO.  For  a  long  time  he  refused  to  admit  his  mistake, 
and  there  was  a  consequent  mistake  in  understanding  the 
situation.  But  finally  the  FAO  admitted  they  were  wrong.  (And  at 
that  point  the  economists  accused  the  FAO  of  being  a  permanent 
lobby  for  starvation!!  Their  more  recent  calculations  are  that 
about  one-eighth  of  the  world  suffers  from  malnutrition  because 
of  poverty.  That  seems  reasonable.  Now,  one-eighth  is  a  lot  of 
people;  you  can't  be  complacent  about  it.  But  it's  not  one-half.  It's 
different 

In  tact,  the  world  isn't  that  poor.  About  30  percent  of  the  world 
lives  at  S 1 50  per  capita  or  a  little  bit  less  —  normal,  classical 
poverty.  About  44  percent  of  the  world  lives  at  about  $600  per 
capita.  The  Chinese  are  at  &1.S0,  but  very  well  organized.  You 
can't  call  them  poor  by  any  standards.  Go  to  China  and  call  them 
poor,  and  they'll  kick  you  in  the  teeth.  They  won't  stand  for  it.  So 
44  percent  of  the  world  is  middle  income  —  neither  rich  nor  poor. 
Its  growing  about  5  percent  a  year,  and  rapidly  catching  up  with 
the  26  percent  who  are  rich.  By  the  end  of  the  century,  something 
like  two-thirds  of  the  world  will  be  rich  by  almost  any  standard, 
including  the  standard  of  1950  (not  necessarily  the  standard  of 
today1.  And  roughly  one-third  will  be  poor,  but  not  by  historic 
standards.  Bv  historic  standards  most  of  them  will  be  relatively 
well  ott. 

Basically  the  system  is  succeeding.  Like  our  own  country,  the 
44  percent  who  are  relatively  talented  in  economic  development 
grow  very  East  ill  the  current  atmosphere.  And  they  do  so  because 
of  the  capital,  the  markets,  the  technology,  and  the  organization 
supplied  by  the  nch.  The  Japanese,  who  now  profess  a  belief  in 

balanced  "growth  (though  they're  dropping  that  position),  calcu- 
late that  it  they  stuck  to  their  guns  and  grew  only  5  to  6  percent  a 
year  the  growth  rate  ol  southeast  Asia  would  drop  3  points.  The 
growth  rate  of  the  poor  depends  almost  entirely  today  on  the 
growth  rate  of  the  nch.  That's  why  I  totally  disagree  with  the 
limits  to  growth  people. 

first  ot  all,  I  disagree  with  their  concept  of  organic  growth. 
Their  basie  concept  is  that  we  should  tie  ourselves  to  India  in 
such  .i  way  that  it  India  goes  down,  we  go  down  too.  They  think 
it's  an  unbalanced  situation,  that  it  we  get  richer,  India  gets 
poorer  The  last  thing  in  the  world  we  want  to  do  is  marry  India 
economically    It  just  doesn't  make  sense  First,  we  would  nun 
India  Second,  India  would  nun  us 


I  believe  in  what  could  be  called  very  unbalanced  growth. 
There's  no  particular  reason  why  the  rich  should  grow  richer; 
far  as  I'm  concerned  they're  already  rich  enough.  But  there's  n 
particular  reason  why  they  shouldn't;  it's  a  matter  of  taste.  To 
extent  that  we  let  morality  enter  the  picture,  because  we  want 
help  the  poor,  we  have  the  rich  grow  faster.  It's  not  a  question 
reducing  gaps,-  it's  a  matter  of  increasing  the  income  of  the  poo 
they  can  get  someplace.  I  don't  believe  there's  a  single  workei 
peasant  in  Latin  America,  Africa,  or  Asia  who  worries  about  ga 
They  want  to  get  rich.  I've  often  asked  their  governments  the 
following  question:  Say  there  are  two  ways  to  get  rich.  One  w 
they  triple  their  income  in,  say,  twenty  years,  and  U.S.  incom 
remains  constant.  The  second  way  they  double  their  income 
the  U.S.  income  goes  down  a  little  bit,  and  the  gap  narrows. 
Which  way  would  they  pick?  They  tell  me  they  wouldn't  give 
one  penny  in  income  to  reduce  thegap,  to  cut  U.S.  income.  Th 
don't  love  us  for  being  rich — and  they  don't  hate  us  either.  We 
far  away. 


By  the  end  of  the  century,  about 
two-thirds  of  the  world  will  be  rich  by 
almost  any  standard. 


•VPI  Journal 


\J  THE  LAST  FIVE  YEARS  you've  heard  a  great  deal  about 
limits  to  growth.  The  Club  of  Rome  people  more  or  less 
finally  changed  their  position  recently  in  Philadelphia.  The 
iginal  position  said  you  can't  grow  even  if  you  want  to,  because 
ere  are  no  resources.  The  new  position  is  very  much  married  to 
.e  so-called  new  international  order.  It  says  the  poor  should 
ow  (you  can't  tell  the  poor  they  can't  grow! ),  but  the  rich  should 
)t;  the  rich  should  stop  or  slow  down.  That  position  is  even  less 
tisfactory  to  me  than  their  original  position,  because  that  first 
)sition  was  obviously  wrong. 

Now,  I  can  make  some  statements  here  in  the  year  1976  which 
:ouldn't  have  made  in  1960,  and  it's  terribly  important  for  you 
realize  that  fact  to  really  understand  my  position.  This  is  not  a 
mg-ho  speech;  this  is  not  a  speech  of  Man  Can  Rise  To  The 
ccasion;  this  is  not  a  speech  of  Optimism  Is  Better  Than 
■sshmsm.  I  want  to  give  you  some  numbers.  I  don't  believe  you 
n  prove  many  things  by  numbers,  but  one  of  the  things  you  can 
ove  is,  the  resources  add  up,  because  that's  an  arithmetic 
lestion. 

I  want  to  take  one  of  the  first  issues  raised  in  Limits  to  Growth, 
at  we're  running  out  of  aluminum.  There  are  some  twenty 
ings  we're  running  out  of,  and  they  start  out  with  aluminum, 
ow  what  they're  really  saying,  if  you  look  at  it,  is  we're  running 
it  of  bauxite.  I  doubt  that,  but  I  can't  prove  it's  wrong.  On  the 
her  hand,  aluminum  is  7  percent  of  the  earth's  crust!  It's  sort  of 
)vious  even  in  1960  that  you  can't  run  out  of  aluminum;  but  in 
)60  if  you  asked  me  what  I  mean  by  that,  I  mean  Man  Is  Going 
d  Rise  To  The  Occasion,  somehow  we'll  handle  it.  Today, 
)wever,  I  mean  that  I  can  point  out  to  you  the  various  sources  of 
e  which  will  substitute  for  bauxite  —  if  we  run  out  of  bauxite  — 
a  roughly  comparable  price.  So  don't  argue  with  me  about 
ruling  out  of  aluminum.  If  you  think  we're  running  out,  you're 
rang;  it's  a  matter  of  arithmetic.  We  actually  know  where  the 
es  are,  and  I  can  show  you  on  a  map.  This  is  not  being 
itimistic,  and  it's  not  being  pessimistic.  It's  adding  up  the 
imbers  properly. 

If  you  say  we're  running  out  of  energy,  I'll  come  back  with  the 
me  answer.  Sure,  we  have  a  shortage  of  energy  today.  If  we're 
pendent  on  the  Middle  East  and  they  turn  the  faucet  off,  we're 
■ing  to  run  short.  I  think  that  if  they  had  not  turned  off  the 
ucet,  Byrom  would  be  right:  then  the  price  system  would  not  be 
*ood  guide  to  energy  sources.  In  fact,  I  think  history  will  record 
at  the  act  of  the  OPEC  nations  in  turning  off  the  faucet  at  that 
)int  actually  solved  the  energy  problem  for  the  medium  and 
ng  run.  There's  a  rather  good  chance  that  if  they  hadn't  done  it, 
e  would  have  run  through  a  very  rough  ten  or  fifteen  years.  Back 
1 1972  we  were  preparing  a  report  that  said,  Let's  get  the  price  of 
1  up  to  $5  a  barrel  as  fast  as  possible,  for  a  number  of  reasons,  one 
:  which  was  to  stimulate  R&D. 

What  about  air  pollution,  water  pollution  ?  If  your  standards  are 
asonable  —  not  health  standards  but  aesthetic  standards  —  it 
ill  be  achieved  in  North  America,  in  northwest  Europe,  in 
pan,  by  around  1985  or  soon  afterwards.  By  this,  I  mean  the 
rograms  will  be  in  operation.  Now  what  if  you  really  have  a  very 
igh  aesthetic  standard?  Those  who  live  out  in  the  West  know 
ou  can  sometimes  see  for  50  miles,  and  it's  beautiful.  I  don't 
link  that  will  be  preserved  for  as  many  days  a  year  as  we  have 
ow.  In  other  words,  we  might  now  have  100  days  a  year  when 
ou  can  see  Catalina  Island  from  the  coast,  and  that  may  go  down 
3  60  days,  or  50.  And  that's  a  loss,  a  real  loss.  But  I  suspect  the 
lgher  income  is  worth  it  to  most  people.  They  want  it.  They 
lay  be  wrong,  because  they  don't  need  the  higher  income; 
aey're  not  dying  of  starvation.  But  I  think  that  they  will  so 
,  hoose. 


I  think  history  will  record  that  the 
OPEC  nations'  turning  off  the  faucet 
actuallyso/\/ed  the  energy  problem  for 
the  medium  and  long  run. 


THERE  ARE  TWO  WAYS  in  which  quality  of  life  will  go 
down.  First,  you'll  never  reproduce  what  I  had  in  Los  Angeles 
as  a  very  poor  boy.  We  were  on  relief.  We'd  just  gotten  off  the  boat 
when  we  went  to  Los  Angeles,  and  I  went  to  work,  and  I've 
worked  all  my  life  since  I've  been  about  12.  Even  when  I  was 
going  to  school  I  worked  anywhere  from  thirty  to  forty  hours  a 
week.  Nevertheless,  I  bought  a  car,  a  Model  A,  for  $75,  and  I  was 
able  to  maintain  it  myself,  with  no  insurance.  We  used  to  drive 
down  to  Malibu,  where  we  would  have  the  entire  beach  to 
ourselves,  just  two  couples.  That's  where  the  movie  stars  are 
now.  If  anybody  else  came,  we  moved  to  a  beach  farther  north. 
We  used  to  go  hiking  in  the  high  Sierras;  and  if  we  met  one  other 
couple  on  the  trail,  the  day  was  ruined.  We  used  to  drive  to  San 
Francisco  for  Chinese  meals,  and  there  was  no  traffic.  You 
couldn't  make  it  today.  We  used  to  drive  to  Mexico  for  Mexican 
meals.  That's  gone,  and  it  can  never  be  reproduced.  You  know 
something?  My  children  don't  miss  it.  They're  not  smart  enough 
to,  and  I  haven't  told  them.  Why  should  I  wreck  their  lives? 

I  should  make  this  clear,  because  it  relates  to  the  second  kind  of 
loss,  where  values  will  disappear.  This  has  been  so  important  a 
factor  in  Western  culture  that  for  the  last  thousand  years  you 
could  make  the  following  observation:  The  elites  would  not  have 
liked  the  culture  100  or  200  years  later.  If  you  stopped  somebody 
on  the  street  in  1776  or  1876  and  described  today's  world  to  him, 
he  would  say,  "My  God,  that's  awful! "  Let's  take  my  own  family. 
We  came  to  this  country  for  freedom,  wealth,  safety,  status, 
respect.  We  got  all  that.  Except  it  was  a  total  failure,  according  to 
my  grandfather.  He  walked  with  God;  his  degenerate  grandson 
was  an  atheist  at  12.  What  was  the  point  of  the  trip?  I  explained  to 
him  that  if  we'd  stayed  in  Poland,  I  would  have  been  the  same.  I 
might  as  well  be  rich,  knowledgeable,  and  so  on. 

Actually,  things  are  looking  better  for  my  grandfather  now.  I 
became  an  agnostic  at  about  25,  a  deist  at  35. 1  think  I'm  going  to 
die  a  rabbi!  But  it  took  a  long  time. 

UIPI 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  / 1 3 


Hazel  Henderson  is  co-director  of  the  Princeton  Center  for  Alterna- 
tive Futures,  Inc  With  her  husband,  she  heads  what  they  describe  as  a 
"deliberately  small  think-tank  and  conference  center"  for  exploring 
alternative  futures  for  industrialized  countries  in  a  planetary  context  of 
human  interests  Her  prolific  writing  and  lectures  have  earned  her 
memberships  on  such  national  bodies  as  the  National  Research 
Council,  Committee  on  Public  Engineering  Policy  of  the  National 
Academy  of  Science;  Board  of  Directors  of  the  Council  on  Economic 
Priorities,  and  the  Advisory  Board  of  the  National  Council  for  Public 
ment  of  Technology 


The  mirage  of  efficienq 


by  Hazel  Henderson 

SCIENCE  HAS  BECOME  a  religion  for  all  too  many  of  us, 
'while  human  values  .and  ethical  concerns  are  driven  into 
hiding  because  they  are  embarrassingly  unquantifiable  and 
"non-rigorous."  Most  of  the  incentives  in  the  academic  worli 
reward  rather  narrow,  reductionist  study  and  pseudo-rigorou: 
examination  of  less  and  less  significant  phenomena. 

Many  distinguished  scholars  have  called  attention  to  thest 
"fallacies  of  misplaced  concreteness,"  as  Alfred  North 
Whitehead  called  such  efforts  of  micro-rigor.  They  include,  o 
course,  the  great  Werner  Heisenberg  in  physics,-  Kurt  Godel  i 
mathematics,-  Oskar  Morgenstern,  Georgescu-Roegen,  Kenn 
Boulding,  and  E.  F.  Schumacher  in  economics.  The  torch  is  si 
being  upheld  in  the  science-policy  arena  by  Lewis  Mumford, 
Gerald  Holton,  Margaret  Mead,  Gregory  Bateson,  and  many 
others,  and  there  are  the  vigorous  new  critiques  of  reduction! 
science  by  Theodore  Roszak,  R.  D.  Laing,  and  William  Irwin 
Thompson. 

All  these  humanists  force  us  to  remember  diat  reality  is  w 
we  pay  attention  to.  The  normative  nature  of  science  is  reve; 
in  the  first  decision  of  any  scientist:  what  phenomena  to  stu; 
This  choice  then  influences  our  view  of  reality:  where  we  sei 
ourselves  in  space-time  —  perhaps  it's  a  sort  of  Heisenberg 
Uncertainty  Principle  at  the  macro,  rather  than  the  quantun 
level. 

I  believe  that  human  survival  now  requires  an  awareness  t 
transcends  our  very  natural  anthropocentrism.  Each  great  kr 
edge  explosion  in  our  history  has  been  based  on  such  a  new  1 
of  expanded  awareness,  from  Ptolemy's  view  of  the  sun  and  st 
revolving  around  us  on  Earth,  to  the  Copemican  revolution 
which  reduced  us  to  a  subordinate  positon  in  the  universe. 
Darwin  further  undermined  our  proud  image  with  his  theoric 
evolution,  and  much  of  today's  new  knowledge  is  increasing 
shattering  our  sense  of  self-importance.  And  that  is  so  wheth 
we  study  ourselves  as  components  of  living  ecosystems,  01  as 
infinitely  malleable  creatures  viewed  by  behaviorist  B.  F.  Skir 
in  Bej  ond  Freedom  and  Dignity,  creatures  whose  profound! 
emotions  are  nothing  but  electrical  stimulation,  reproducibl 
brain-probing  instruments.  Now  we  learn  that  two  more  on 
claims  to  uniqueness  are  being  debunked:  dolphins  and  othc 
mammals  have  well-developed  languages;  and  iii.inv  other 
species  use  tools,  including  even  the  lowly  ant,  which  loads 
supplies  on  leal  fragments  and  thus  multiplies  its  transport 
capabilities  tenfold. 

We  are  |ust  becoming  aware  of  ecosystems  as  immanent 
intoim.it ion.  1 1 'i  example,  it  has  been  shown  that  glasses  in 
typical  grazing  pasture  are  capable  of  growing  themselves 

tougher  and  more  unpalatable  by  increasing  the  cellulose  col 

of  then  leaves  in  oulei  to  drive  off  excessive  numbers  of  graz 


•  cember  19/<>    WPUoumal 


The  entropy  state ...  a  society  that  has 
reached  such  levels  of  complexity  and 
interdependence  that  it  has  become 
unmodelable,  and  therefore 
unmanageable. 


nimals.  In  our  pride,  we  tend  to  overlook  these  levels  of  wisdom 
round  us. 

But  let  us  not  be  dismayed  by  this  disturbing  new  evidence  of 
ur  need  for  greater  humility.  Let's  instead  relax  and  enjoy  our 
atural  curiosity,  and  indulge  the  new  burst  of  imagination  and 
Deculation  it  creates.  Imagination,  indeed,  has  always  been  one 
four  most  important  survival  tools.  We  must  now  employ 
nagination  to  help  us  deal  with  the  perceptual  crisis  that  is  upon 
s,  as  our  species  has  now  multiplied  almost  to  the  limits  of  its 
cological  niche  on  this  planet. 

This  perceptural  crisis  has  two  aspects.  First,  we  are  experienc- 
ig  an  implosion,  as  space  and  resources  .diminish  relative  to  our 
rowing  population.  We  feel  the  loss  of  frontiers,  the  slowing  of 
conomic  expansion,  urban  crowding,  and  the  evaporation  of 
iany  of  our  historically  defined  freedoms.  And  at  the  same  time 
'e  are  experiencing  ourselves  getting  smaller  and  less  significant 
s  all  of  the  old  perceptual  boundaries  fall  away.  So  paradoxically, 
>  we  feel  physically  confined  and  frustrated,  we  are  also  con- 
onted  with  an  expanded  men tal  model  of  the  universe.  We  are 
^ain facing  the  oldest  human  dilemma:  a  consciousness  that  can 
'ander  among  planets,  stars,  and  millennia,  but  trapped  in  a  few 
ollars  worth  of  chemicals  which  will  degrade  in  a  few  brief  years. 
1  short,  we  have  to  again  face  the  fact  of  our  own  death  and 
niteness,  as  the  old  games  our  cultures  have  provided  to  shield 
s  from  this  reality  break  down  and  become  destructive  and 
lappropriate  for  the  new  conditions,  leaving  us  shorn  of 
sychological  clothes  with  which  to  protect  ourselves. 
Imagination  is  already  coming  to  our  aid  again.  As  physical 
)rms  of  growth  are  foreclosed,  we  are  learning  to  make  some 
ew  psychological  "elbow  room"  in  diversifying  lifestyles  and  in 
ishioning  new  images  to  help  us  expand  our  consciousness  for 
ae  next  evolutionary  leap  we  must  now  make.  We  might 
magine  ourselves  as  a  termite  colony,  up  to  now  living  happily 
Dr  all  of  our  generations  in  a  beam  in  the  basement  of  a  house.  We 
lave  developed  elaborate  social  structures  and  academic  disci- 
'  lines:  termite  geography,  termite  mathematics,  physics,  en- 
jneering,  and  economics.  Suddenly  our  current  generation  has 
ised  up  and  transformed  the  beam  and  emerged  at  its  external 
urfaces.  Not  only  does  this  change  all  the  conditions  within  the 
:olony  and  its  beam,  but  the  roof  on  the  house  seems  to  have 
)lown  off  and  the  walls  collapsed!  Survival  now  requires  the 
econstruction  of  a  more  appropriate  geography,  physics,  math, 
nd  economics  to  incorporate  the  new  variables  and  expanded 
>oundaries  and  contexts. 


I  HAVE  OFTEN  WONDERED  why  we  are  so  much  better  at 
creating  "hardware"  than  at  designing  the  "software"  to  go  with 
it.  At  one  level,  it  is  rooted  in  our  fear  of  death  and  non-existence. 
When  we  build  cities,  dams,  and  factories,  we  provide  for  our 
material  requirements,  but  we  also  affirm  our  existence  and 
importance.  These  physical  artifacts  that  are  so  tangible  reassure 
us  of  our  own  reality.  Another  root  of  our  interest  in  hardware  is 
that  humans  love  to  manipulate  their  surroundings  and  enjoy  the 
sense  of  mastery  and  control  these  activities  confer,  as  well  as  the 
expression  of  self  in  such  creation  and  play.  Yet  another  explana- 
tion may  be  that  we  would  rather  project  our  inner  tensions  and 
conflicts  onto  the  objective  world  than  resolve  them  by  examin- 
ing our  own  psyches  and  trying  to  retool  ourselves. 

Lastly,  I  wonder  whether  this  passion  for  hardware  is  not  a 
result  of  a  cultural  overdose  of  the  masculine  consciousness?  (I 
like  to  call  it  "macho  technology.")  The  masculine  psyche  does 
seem  more  attuned  (either  biologically  or  by  cultural  condition- 
ing) to  manipulating  external  things  and  objects,  while  the 
female  psyche  seems  similarly  more  attuned  to  "software,"  i.e., 
interpersonal  and  social  relationships  and  arrangements. 

Technology,  defined  as  knowledge  systematically  applied  to 
human  problem-solving,  means  software  as  well  as  hardware.  For 
example,  the  social  security  system  and  income  tax  are  as  much 
technologies  as  any  hardware  system.  Lewis  Mumford  pointed 
this  out  a  long  time  ago  in  The  Myth  of  the  Machine,  and  drew 
attention  to  our  bias  toward  hardware  in  anthropology  and 
archeology.  He  pointed  out  that  when  we  dig  for  evidence  of 
earlier  cultures,  such  remains  are  tangible  by  definition:  in  other 
words,  their  hardware,  whether  arrowheads,  axes,  pots,  or  other 
artifacts.  We  infer  from  the  extent  and  elaboration  of  these 
artifacts  their  level  of  "civilization."  We  often  forget  that  many 
cultures  may  have  existed  without  leaving  a  trace.  They  could 
have  developed  highly  refined  technologies,  but  of  the  software 
variety:  techniques  of  conflict  resolution,  supportive  interper- 
sonal relationships,  production  systems  based  on  elaborate  bar- 
ter, reciprocity,  and  redistribution  schemes,  as  well  as  myths  and 
taboos  to  regulate  antisocial  behavior  without  the  use  of  jails, 
clubs,  or  physical  restraints.  A  culture  which  elaborated  such 
software  techniques  would  have  had  little  need  for  spears  and 
arrowheads,  and  might  have  had  few  energies  left  over  to 
elaborate  its  tools,  and  so  we  might  assume  too  casually  that, 
because  there  were  few  tangible  remains,  it  was  less  "civilized." 

In  the  same  vein,  I  recently  visited  Japan  and  talked  with  a 
project  director  at  the  Japan  Techno-Economics  Society,  who  was 
directing  an  effort  to  computer- model  the  value  system  of  the 
Japanese  people.  He  pointed  out  that  it  was  possible  to  infer  from 
the  quantities  and  configurations  of  material  artifacts  and 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  / 15 


technologies  created  by  various  cultures,  a  great  deal  about  their 
value  systems.  As  an  example,  he  mentioned  the  culture  of  the 
Bahnese,  who  create  exquisite  music,  dances,  rituals,  stories,  and 
clothes,  but  who  are  just  not  interested  in  hardware.  On  the  other 
end  of  the  scale  are  the  Americans,  who  are  fascinated  with 
hardware  and  produce  more  of  it  than  any  culture  the  world  has 
ever  known.  We  are  even  unable  to  enjoy  leisure  activities  such  as 
hiking  without  an  incredible  quantity  of  gear. 

Similarly,  we  know  that  values  are  the  dominant  variables 
dnving  not  only  technological  but  economic  systems.  Relation- 
ships have  been  established  between  Judaeo-Christian  religious 
beliefs  and  the  nse  of  capitalism  and  the  industrial  revolution.  E. 
F.  Schumacher  described  in  his  bookSmallls  Beautiful  the  value 
system  that  drives  Buddhist  economics.  There  labor  is  an  output 
of  production  rather  than  an  input;  it  is  embodied  in  the  idea  of 
"right  livelihood,"  where  work  is  a  valuable  mode  of  self- 
actualization  while  die  product  is  oi  secondary  importance. 


We  again  face  the  oldest  human 
dilemma  —  a  consciousness  that  can 
wander  among  stars  and  millennia 
trapped  in  a  few  dollars  worth  of 
chemicals  that  will  degrade  in  a  few 
years. 


In  this  culture  we  may  at  last  be  awakening  from  that  altered 
state  of  consciousness  which  Thomas  Berry  calls  "the  technolog- 
ical trance,    and  .ill  the  unthinking  assumptions  that  underlie  it. 
The  most  destructive  of  these  beliefs  is  that  we  see  innovation 
and  technological  progress  mostly  in  terms  of  hardware,  and  as 
continuous.  We  rarely  recognize  limits  or  the  concepts  of  balance 
and  paradox.  This  technological  trance  has  led  us  on  with  a 
mirage  of  "efficiency"  as  its  will-o-the-wisp.  Our  technological 
consciousness  has  permitted  us  to  conquer  nature  (temporarily, 
at  least1,  expand  our  ecological  niche,  and  manage  more  of  the 
variables  that  affect  our  existence.  But  die  trade-off  is  that,  as  we 
proceed  with  tins  process,  the  task  of  managing  these  proliferat- 
ing variables  becomes  ever  more  complex  and  onerous,  until  we 
tmd  thai  we  need  a  breakthrough  a  day  to  keep  the  crisis  at  bay. 
We  lose  sight  ot  the  fat  t  that  some  human  and  natural  processes 
are  not  susceptible  to  increases  in  "efficiency."  Women  under- 
stand tins  better  than  men   it  still  takes  nine  months  to  make  a 
baby,  and  200  years  to  grow  a  hardwood  tree  And  while  human 
inter. u  dons  can  he  iik  teased  ami  made  tastet  with  technology, 
the)   ue  i.irck  made  bettei  and  sometimes  made  worse.  A 

companion  myth  isth.u  new  technologies  can  always  be  "debug- 

it  link  we  wait  long  enough  My  view  is,  it  you  put  the  bugs 
in  at  the  trout  end  ot  tin-  cost  benefit  analysis,  von  mighl  have  a 

whole  different  idea  <>t  whethei  it  is  worth  doing 


Let  us  look  at  a  few  contemporary  examples  of  this  mirage  c 
efficiency.  A  recent  one  is  the  effort  of  officials  in  the  U.S.  Posl 
Service  to  reduce  'inefficient"  mail.  After  reducing  the  humar 
workforce  (adding  to  the  ranks  of  the  unemployed)  and  investi 
millions  in  capital,  they  find  that  the  machines  are  ripping, 
crushing,  or  destroying  an  alarming  number  of  parcels.  It  migh 
have  been  more  socially  efficient  to  add  one  million  unemploye 
workers  to  the  Postal  Service,  increasing  the  care  in  handling 
while  reinstating  the  twice-a-day  mail  service  our  forefathers 
took  for  granted! 

Another  more  somber  example  is  the  efforts  of  electric  utiliti 
to  seek  "efficiency"  in  larger  and  larger  generating  plants,  sub- 
stituting nuclear  power  for  less  costly  and  violent  technologie 
For  this  increasingly  suspect  and  evanescent  "efficiency,"  the] 
are  willing  to  assume  risks  on  our  behalf  and  trade  social 
efficiency,  since  costly  and  elaborate  police  and  security  systen 
will  have  to  be  invented  to  contain  and  manage  the  plutoniun 
wastes,  now  and  for  thousands  of  years  to  come.  This  does  not 
mention,  either,  the  additional  social  costs  which  must  be  paid 
the  loss  of  many  cherished  civil  liberties.  Already,  consumers  a 
citizens  are  in  full-scale  revolt  against  these  social  inefficienci 
Yet  another  example  is  the  current  effort  of  supermarkets  to 
automate  checkout  counters  in  search  of  greater  "efficiency." 

You  can  see  as  well  as  I  that  the  word  "efficiency"  is  fast 
becoming  meaningless.  We  must  ask,  in  all  cases,  "efficient  fc 
whom?"  We  are  now  more  aware  that  if  the  term  efficiency  is 
mean  anything,  time  and  space  coordinates  must  be  specified. 
We  have  to  know  over  what  time-frame  efficiency  is  to  be 
maximized:  One  year,  as  in  corporate  balance  sheets'  Five  year 
Or  sustained-yield,  long-term  productivity?  Farmers  understa 
that;  I  don't  know  why  economists  don't.  Similarly,  we  must 
know  at  what  system  level  efficiency  is  to  be  maximized:  At  t 
individual  level?  The  corporate  level?  Or  do  we  mean  societal 
efficiency,  or  ecosystem  efficiency?  Each  of  these  different  tin 
space  specifications  of  "efficiency"  requires  totally  different 
policies  for  their  implementation.  Indeed,  in  an  economy  wit! 
nearly  8  percent  of  the  workforce  unemployed,  corporate  effi- 
ciency may  be  served  by  further  automation  and  capital- 
intensification,  while  social  efficiency  is  sub-optimized  becau 
taxpayers  must  foot  the  bills  for  unemployment  and  welfare 
payments. 

Buckminster  Fuller  uses  a  similar  term  in  a  vacuum.  He  call: 
"ephemeralization."  You  know,  you're  going  to  do  more  with 
less,  and  that's  hound  to  be  good  for  all  cases,  all  times,  and  al. 
places.  There  again,  you  have  to  break  it  out.  He  uses  the  exam] 
of  the  few  pounds  of  material  in  the  satellite  replacing  thousan 
of  pounds  of  copper  wire  in  telephone  cables  under  die  Atlant 
Of  course,  you  cannot  even  discuss  the  efficiency  of  doing  tha 
without  asking  the  question  of  how  the  access  to  the  satellite  h 
been  altered  by  that  new  configuration.  In  some  cases,  it  may 
efficient  to  use  stone-age  technology  if  the  material  is  readily 
available  to  the  local  people.  So  let's  call  people  to  account  wl 
they  use  these  terms  loosely. 


WPUournal 


"ry  this  one  out  on  a  neoclassical 
A/estern  economist:  Do  me  a  model  of 
i  production  system  where  labor  is  the 
)utputr  not  an  input! 


BELIEVE  OUR  ECONOMY  has  overshot  the  mark  in  its 
substitution  of  capital  for  labor.  In  fact,  I  contend  that  in 
undreds  of  production  and  service  processes,  labor  has  now 
ecome  the  more  efficient  factor.  As  natural  resources  become 
lcreasingly  scarce,  we  must  employ  our  human  resources  more 
illy.  In  fact,  a  resource-conserving  economy  must,  by  definition, 
e  a  full-employment  economy  as  well  as,  incidentally,  a  more 
nvironmentally  benign  one. 

I  got  so  angry  about  the  way  this  debate  was  going  last  year  that 
fomied  a  coalition  called  Environmentalists  for  Full  Employ- 
lent.  You  know,  there  are  a  lot  of  front  groups  formed  by  the 
nergy  industry,  with  names  like  Californians  for  Jobs  and 
nergy,  and  Americans  for  Energy  Independence,  and  so  forth.  So 
/e're  trying  to  call  them  to  account  by  saying,  jobs  producing 
/hat?  At  the  substitution  of  what  other  public  priorities?  Jobs  at 
ow  much  capital  per  workplace?  They  think  all  they  have  to  do 
ow,  you  see,  is  wave  the  holy  icon  of  jobs,  and  they  can  do  the 
lost  absurd  things  in  that  name.  But  I  think  we're  now  getting 
eyond  that. 

On  a  world  scale,  this  capital/labor  ratio  has  obviously  shifted 
i  labor,  not  only  because  capital  is  scarce,  but  because  natural 
^sources  are  becoming  scarce  and  people  are  becoming  more 
lentif  ul.  But  in  our  own  U.S.  economy,  the  capital/labor  ratio  has 
(lifted  back  to  labor  for  other  reasons.  We  have  been  subsidizing 
le  overuse  of  capital  relative  to  labor  dirough  investment  tax 
redits,  while  at  the  same  time  we  have  been  using  linear- 
xtrapolation  type  projections  of  labor  costs  which  conceal  the 
ict  that  labor  is  now  cheaper  than  capital,  materials,  and  energy 
i  many  industries  and  services. 

Another  reason  we  are  oversubstituting  capital  for  labor  is  due 
3  economists'  confusion  about  the  concept  of  "productivity." 
"hey  measure  productivity  as  output  per  employee-hour.  This  is 

measure  of  how  much  more  capital  has  been  placed  at  the 
lisposal  of  each  worker.  As  economists  examine  these  capital- 
nriched  production  processes,  they  measure  these  predictable 
ncreases  in  "productivity,"  case  by  case,  while  overlooking  the 
act  that  these  processes  all  tend  to  shake  out  more  and  more 
vorkers  at  the  bottom  of  the  economy,  where  their  productivity 
alls  to  below  zero  and  they  join  the  ranks  of  the  unemployed, 
therefore,  we  need  additional  "average  productivity"  measures 
icross  the  whole  workforce,  including  those  who  are  able-bodied 
)ut  unable  to  find  work. 


Indeed,  it  is  the  current  combination  of  high  unemployment, 
inflation,  and  shortages  of  capital,  energy,  and  materials  that  are 
now  signalling  the  limits  of  macro-economic  management.  Our 
society  is  now  negotiating  what  I  have  called  "the  coming 
economic  transition"  from  a  maximum-materials-throughput 
system  based  on  nonrenewable  resources,  to  a  minimum- 
throughput,  recycling  economy  based  on  renewable  resources 
and  managed  for  sustained-yield,  long-term  productivity.  In 
dealing  with  this  difficult  transition  to  the  new  productive 
system  we  must  now  put  into  place,  we  are  facing  social  and 
conceptual  limits  to  growth.  These  social  limits  are  now  clearly 
visible  in  most  industrialized  economies,  in  the  backlog  of 
soaring  social  and  environmental  costs  (dismissed  by  most 
economists,  in  almost  a  Freudian  slip,  as  "externalities").  These 
include  not  only  cleaning  up  after  the  mess  created  by  mass 
production  and  consumption,  but  dealing  with  the  dropouts  from 
urban  complexity  and  massive,  incomprehensible  technology: 
mediating  the  social  conflicts,  controlling  crime,  and  attempting 
to  coordinate  the  whole  and  maintain  social  equilibrium. 

I  have  proposed  that,  far  from  achieving  Daniel  Bell's  salubri- 
ous vision  of  the  post-industrial  state,  we  may  well  be  heading  for 
what  I  call  the  entropy  state.  I  define  the  entropy  state  as  a  society 
that  has  reached  such  levels  of  complexity  and  interdependence 
that  it  has  become  unmodelable,  and  therefore  unmanageable. 
Such  a  society  begins  generating  so  many  unanticipated  social 
costs  that  these  cumulative  "transaction  costs"  begin  growing 
exponentially,  and  finally  exceed  the  society's  real  production. 
Like  a  physical  system,  it  winds  down  of  its  own  weight  into  a 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  / 1 7 


state  of  entropic  equilibrium,  with  little  further  useful  potential. 
I  believe  that  many  industrial  societies  are  now  exhibiting  this 
syndrome,  and  many  may  have  already  drifted  to  a  soft  landing  in 
an  accidental  steady  state,  with  inflation  masking  their  declining 
condition.  I  think  Britain  is  a  perfect  example.  Ironically,  since 
the  inadequate  formulation  oi  gross  national  product  indicators 
adds  in  all  these  rising  social  costs  as  if  they  were  real  and  useful 
production,  we  are  further  deceived  when  the  GNP  rises. 

Mature  industrial  societies  reaching  the  entropy  stage  seem  to 
generate  two  additional  causes  for  their  increased  inflation  rates 
which  cannot  be  understood  horn  the  perspective  of  economics. 
First  are  the  rising,  systemic  transaction  costs  of  excessive 
complexity,  a  sort  of  meta-level  trade-off  between  the  division  of 
labor  and  specialization  on  the  one  side  and  transaction  costs  on 
the  other  side.  This  is  perhaps  best  understood  from  the  vantage 
point  of  general  systems  theory,  or  you  can  use  a  game  theory 
approach,  such  as  lames  Robertson  has  done  in  two  recent  books. 
He  maintains  that  a  society  will  only  have  non-inflationary 
currency  when  it  is  seen  by  all  its  members  as  being  just  and  fair. 
That's  not  altruism;  it's  just  game  theory. 

.An  additional  factor,  best  measured  by  thermodynamic 
analysis,  arises  when  a  society  on  a  declining  resource  base  must 
cycle  more  of  its  real  wealth  back  into  the  process  of  extracting  its 
energy  and  materials  from  ever-more  degraded  and  inaccessible 
resources,  resulting  in  higher  costs  and  lower  net  yields.  Con- 
sequently, although  people  may  be  fully  employed  and  economic 
activity  remains  high,  it  is  a  wheel- spinning  process  in  which 
fewer  real  goods  and  services  are  produced;  and  so  the  currency 
itself  progressively  loses  us  real  purchasing  power.  All  of  this  is 
viewed  through  the  inadequate  lens  of  economics  as  a  single 
phenomenon  called  "inflation"  or  as  a  declining  productivity  of 
capital  and  a  capital  shortage.  There  is  little  understanding  of  the 
non-economic  caused  of  these  phenomena,  and  that  we  are  now 
squandering  our  last  precious  store  of  "cheap"  capital  amassed 
from  easily  extracted  resources,  and  that  it  represents  a  vital 
stock  of  "flexibility,"  which  is  as  much  of  a  meta-level  resource 
as  eoal  or  oil. 

The  limits  to  growth  issue  is  a  political  issue.  The  point  is  that 
it  you  have  already  been  consuming  a  vast  amount  of  the  world's 
resources,  then  it  behooves  you  to  pay  out  a  lot  of  money  to  get 
people  to  justify  your  continuing  to  consume,  and  so  you  have  an 
awful  lot  of  studies  done,  and  propagated,  to  say  that  there  is  no 
problem.  And  it  you  don't  have  youi  face  quite  so  firmly  buried  in 
the  sand,  yew  tend  to  be  a  little  worried  about  when  it  might  all 
run  out  And  this  is  why  the  Third  World  countries  are  now 
talking  about  a  new  economic  world  order.  And  I  think  they 
understand  that  the  justification  of  inequality  tor  capital  forma- 
tion, which  is  the  old  Keynesian  "trickle-down" model  of 
economic  development,  is  going  to  leave  them  waiting  in  the 
back  ot  the  line  forever,  until  all  of  us  have  our  second  housesaiul 

thud  boats  |  was  recently  with  a  Third  World  leader,  and  we  were 
talking  about  the  inevitable  subjeel  of  the  limits  to  growth.  He 
said   "It's  like  a  tunnel  with  two  lanes  ot  traffic.  You  go  into  the 
tunnel  with  youi  car,  and  you  get  stuck  m  the  lane  that's  not 
moving,  and  you're  not  allowed  to  change  lanes.  And  then- is  the 
other  lane  going  hv  you  at  a  pretty  good  clip,  and  you  get  very 
frustrated     I'm  afraid  [disagree  with  I  lerman  Kahn  about  tins 
You  i/o  see  the  ot  In- 1  lane  going  by,  ami  son  dogel  very  angry 
about  it    Ami  ot  course,  the  thing  is  vvc  do  not  have  the  (lion  c  ot 
whether  to  m.iirv  India   We  chose  to  man\  India  when  we  (the 

industrial  national  extended  our  global  search  foi  materials  and 
hi  cs  tosuppofl  out  economies  It  was  not  India's  choice;  she 
captive  bride 


WE  NOW  REALIZE  that  we  must  learn  humility  if  we  ar 
to  face  these  complexities  we  have  created.  We  sense 
the  truth  that  only  the  system  can  manage  the  system,  and  we  s 
the  airy  arrogance  in  some  of  our  concepts  of  management  and 
administration.  We  must  examine  anew  the  easy  assumptions 
that  sociotechnical  systems  are  even  susceptible  to  manipulatii 
by  legislation,  just  as  ancient  kings  had  to  learn  that  they  couli 
not  affect  the  behavior  of  natural  systems  by  royal  decree.  We 
marvel  once  more  at  the  ingenuity  of  "primitive"  cultures, 
whose  most  obvious  characteristic  is  the  relative  absence  of 
government,  beat  use  social  controls  have  been  internalized. 

We  are  indeed  at  a  crossroads,  faced  with  our  own  sociotechn 
cal  complexity.  We  can  take  one  path  —  that  of  further  steppir 
up  the  computer  power  to  model  these  complexities  —  and 
progress  down  the  road  to  the  computerized  Leviathan  state  oi 
George  Orwell's  1984.  Or  we  can  take,  not  the  Luddite's  ax,  bi 
the  surgeon's  scalpel,  and  try  to  disentangle  some  of  the  unnece 
sary  interlinkages  and  the  over-coherent  technologies  them- 
selves, and  by  such  decentralizing  of  means  try  to  reduce  the 
number  of  interacting  variables  that  we  must  manage. 

We  also  realize  that  hard  choices  and  trade-offs  must  now  b 
made,  not  just  as  to  budget  priorities  between  education,  trans 
porta tion,  health,  or  more  private  consumption;  or  between 
R&D  priorities,  public  and  private  investments,  capital-  or 
labor-intensive  production,  or  energy  alternatives.  There  is  a  n« 
range  of  now  visible  meta-choices,  such  as  between  further 
centralization  or  decentralization,  between  maintaining  a  stoc 
of  social  flexibility  and  options  versus  making  current  invest- 
ments which  may  hard-program  society  into  unsustainable  or 
irreversible  patterns.  These  meta-level  trade-offs  are  visible  in 
every  social  subsystem,  from  government  and  corporate  organ 
zations  to  the  educational  system,  where  maintaining  capital 
plant  and  equipment  must  be  traded  off  against  flexibility  and 
adaptability,  while  similar  choices  must  be  made  in  teacher 
training  and  student  curricula. 

At  the  personal  level,  educators  also  have  to  deal  with  these 
new  trade-offs:  whether  to  specialize  further  or  to  expand  thei 
horizons  into  interdisciplinary  studies,  even  at  the  expense  of 
"rigor"  (as  academically  defined  and  rewarded),  and  whether  t 
trade  expanded  consciousness  for  greater  secular  power  and 
emoluments.  We  see  that  such  goals  conflict,  because  knowlec 
has  become  die  servant  of  power  in  too  many  cases,  and  our 
educational  enterprises  have  too  often  turned  out  intellectual 
mercenaries,  whose  lances  are  for  hire  to  justify  policies  of 
entrenched  bureaucracies  and  interest  groups,  rather  than  to 
merely  search  for  the  truth.  Indeed,  we  should  debate  whethei 
our  incentives  to  scientific  achievement,  such  as  the  Nobel  Pri 
should  be  redirected.  Perhaps  we  should  call  a  moratorium  on 
giving  Nobel  Prizes  in  highly  controversial  and  dangerous  re- 
search, such  as  nuclear  physics  or  work  on  recombinant  DNA 
At  last  we  see  that  science  isnot  neutral,  nor  is  technology,  t 
its  pretentions  to  value-free  objectivity  are  now  debasing  the 
currency  of  public  debate  and  preventing  us  from  making 
adequate  social  choices.  For  example,  economics  is  now  obsci 
ing  the  needed  debate  about  what  is  valuable  under  the  new 
constraints  and  conditions  we  taee.  Technology  now  creates  1 
own  social  configurations,  and  we  must  ask  to  what  extent  th 
continued  drive  toward  big-bang,  capital-intensive  technologi 
simply  concentrates  power,  wealth,  and  knowledge  in  tewet H 
lew  1 1  hamls,  while  making  the  rest  ot  us  poorer  and  more 
powerless,  and  all  the  while  actually  incieasmg  overall  humai 

ignorance 


WPUournal 


'erhaps  we  should  call  a  moratorium 
>n  giving  Nobel  Prizes  for  highly 
ontroversial  and  dangerous  research 


It  is  now  clear  that  the  free  market  is  not  working  to  direct 
ichnological  innovation  to  consumer  demand,  as  it  should.  If  it 
/ere,  we  would  not  now  have  a  debate  raging  in  the  political 
rena  about  what  is  "appropriate"  to  technology,  which  has 
pilled  out  of  the  market  choice  arena  into  the  realm  of  social  and 
olitical  choice.  All  this  was  predicted  in  1 944  by  Karl  Polanyi  in 
is  study  of  human  production  and  exchange  systems,  The  Great 
transformation.  Polanyi  pointed  out  that  leaving  resource  allo- 
ations  to  a  free-market  system  would  merely  suboptimize  the 
ocial  system  while  leading  to  rapid  environmental  depletion.  He 
lemonstrated  that  free  markets,  far  from  being  derived  from 
ome  natural  order  or  human  behavioral  laws,  as  Adam  Smith 
hought,  were  created  by  carefully  designed  human  planning  and 
;oftware.  The  conditions  thus  created  for  the  operation  of  free 
narkets  were  bitterly  contested  and  legislated  over  many  dec- 
ides. This  new  package  of  social  legislation,  laissez  faire,  which 
inclosed  land  so  that  it  might  be  marketed  as  a  commodity  and 
Irove  off  peasants  so  as  to  require  them  to  sell  their  labor  as  a 
:ommodity,  laid  the  groundwork  for  the  industrial  revolution. 
Here  again,  this  increase  in  efficiency  of  production  was  won  at  a 
terrible  price  in  social  dislocation  and  inefficiency.  In  the  larger 
scale  of  human  history,  market  systems  are  a  mere  blip  as- 
sociated with  the  rise  of  industrialism,  and  have  actually  been  a 
rare  aberration  in  human  societies.  As  the  industrial  system  has 
reached  its  present  complexity,  I  agree  with  system  theorist  Todd 
LaPorte,  who  asserts  that  markets  can  no  longer  allocate  re- 


sources where  production  has  indivisible  social  consequences.  So 
we  must  now  face  the  paradox:  laissez  faire  does  not  always 
work,  although  it  does  wherever  Adam  Smith's  conditions  are 
met,  and  then  it  is  the  best  way  to  allocate  resources.  And  the 
terrible  truth  is,  we  do  not  know  how  to  plan,  and  the  socialist 
countries  do  not  know  how  to  plan.  I  think  it  would  clear  the  air  if 
we  talked  about  that  paradox,  that  there  must  be  a  third  way  . . . 
and  we  are  all  looking  for  that  third  way. 

This  discussion  of  market  failure  is  necessary  if  we  are  to 
properly  assess  technology  and  try  to  understand  its  likely 
second-order  consequences.  Each  major  technological  innova- 
tion redistributed  power,  destroys  some  jobs  and  creates  others, 
rearranges  population  patterns,  and  creates  new  ranks  of  winners 
and  losers.  Technologies  do  not  arise  in  a  vacuum.  There  is 
always  a  force  field  of  institutional  vested  interests  whose 
interactions  may  tend  to  promote  or  suppress  technologies. 


THE  REAL  JOB  over  the  next  ten  years  is  to  start  retooling 
ourselves.  Herman  Kahn  asks,  Are  we  worse  off?  Is  the 
future  going  to  be  better?  To  me  that's  not  the  question.  We  have 
to  redefine  what's  better  and  what's  worse;  we  have  to  redefine 
what  we  mean  by  satisfaction.  We  can't  talk  about  waste  without 
redefining  needs  and  greeds.  There's  plenty  for  our  needs,  maybe 
not  for  all  of  our  greeds. 

I  hope  that  eventually  some  of  us  will  see  the  advent  of  the 
ultimate  industrial  revolution:  the  revolution  from  hardware  to 
software.  One  day,  a  problem  of  production  may  not  automati- 
cally trigger  visions  of  a  factory,  machinery  or  hardware  at  all. 
Instead  we  may  learn  to  stop  and  think  harder  and  with  more 
subtlety.  We  will  then  scan  suitable  natural  ecosystems  for  signs 
of  the  natural  capability  we  seek,  or  for  useful  biological  potential 
that  we  can  tap  into  or  augment.  This  bioengineering  approach  is 
already  leading  to  a  design  revolution  and  a  rethinking  of  many 
problems  of  production  and  energy  and  materials  management. 
For  example,  many  architects  are  now  designing  houses  with 
"passive"  heating  systems  —  that  is,  they  are  constructing  and 
positioning  houses  to  take  advantage  of  natural  solar  and  wind 
conditions  so  that  they  will  not  need  a  heating  unit  at  all.  Or  take 
the  production  of  nitrogen  fertilizers.  This  does  not  require 
factories,  but  can  be  approached  by  recycling  animal  and  human 
wastes,  or  by  genetically  engineering  plants  to  augment  their 
own  nitrogen-fixing  capabilities.  The  lowly  joruba  plant  that 
grows  wild  in  the  U.S.  southwest  desert  regions  is  a  rich  source  of 
petroleum,  while  plants  "mine"  millions  of  tons  of  important 
industrial  minerals  every  year  by  collecting  them  from  the  soil 
and  storing  them  in  their  roots,  where  they  are  accessible  for 
extraction. 

Our  planet  is  more  marvelous  than  we  yet  understand,  and  our 
own  capabilities  and  imaginations  will  be  stretched  by  the 
current  crises  of  our  dying  industrial  system.  Your  program  at 
WPI  is  helping  us  in  transcending  the  old  system  and  rising  to 
meet  and  guide  these  new  levels  of  human  awareness,  as  are 
those  in  so  many  other  fields  undergoing  creative  ferment.  Time 
is  short,  but  we  can  all  do  no  less  than  play  our  part  in  this  human 
evolutionary  struggle.  mni 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976/ 19 


Thank  you! 

Dear  VVPI  Alumni: 

It  began  as  an  extraordinary  year  —  and  it  ended  as  an  extraordinary  year. 

We  were  faced  with  the  challenge  of  mobilizing  enough  volunteers  to  telephone  8,000  alumni.  The  ye 
ended  with  a  30%  increase  in  the  Fund  and  a  record  total  of  $282 ,883.58  having  been  contributed.  The  yi 
started  with  the  most  elaborate  planning,  both  conceptually  and  logistically,  of  any  WPI  annual  drive.  T 
task  was  to  combine  the  solicitation  for  the  1975-76  Alumni  Fund  (gifts  used  for  operational  purposes] 
with  the  WPI  Plan  to  Restore  the  Balance  (capital  purposes). 

Our  basic  premise  was  one  adopted  by  the  WPI  Fund  Board  in  1972  —  that  every  alumnus  should  be 
provided  an  opportunity  to  take  part  in  the  capital  fund  raising  program.  Moreover,  we  had  an  acute 
awareness  of  the  disaster  resulting  from  elimination  of  the  Alumni  Fund  during  the  capital  program  in  t 
mid-sixties.  At  that  time,  participation  in  the  Fund  dropped  drastically.  Fifty  percent  of  WPI  alumni  wei 
contributing  prior  to  the  capital  campaign;  whereas,  only  25%  were  making  gifts  when  the  Fund  resume 
in  1967.  Our  objective  in  1975-76  was  thus  to  maintain  the  strong  momentum  of  the  Alumni  Fund  overt 
last  several  years,  while  also  giving  every  alumnus  an  opportunity  to  become  involved  in  the  capital 
program. 

Our  initial  decision  was  that  a  personalized  door-to-door  solicitation  program  would  be  neither 
cost-effective  nor  labor-effective.  We  were  also  aware  that  general  mail  solicitation  by  itself  is  perhaps  tl 
weakest  form  of  fund-raising.  Thus,  we  opted  for  a  combined  telephone  and  mail  program  and  set  out 
conduct  19  phonothons  at  sites  from  New  Hampshire  to  California.  The  positive  response  from  alumn: 
asked  to  work  was  heartwarming,  and  the  end  results  were  exceptional.  We  had  over  600  volunteers  w 
stepped  forward  to  man  telephones  throughout  the  country  and  to  work  with  Anniversary  Gift  Prograi 
tor  their  classes.  The  results  area  record  breaking  Alumni  Fund  which  gives  the  Fund  Board  and  all 
alumni  a  lofty  target  to  strive  for  in  future  years.  It's  a  pleasure  to  send  you  this  annual  report,  and  I 
commend  and  thank  all  who  were  involved  either  as  donors  or  as  volunteers.  The  final  results  for  the  yee 
show: 

Cash  Received  $282,883.58 

Number  of  Donors  3,686 

Percentage  Participation  31.97% 

Average  Gift  $76.74 

I  he  phonothon  was  the  most  ambitious  alumni  program  ever  undertaken  at  WPI.  In  a  period  of  threi 
weeks,  or  ,i  total  of  1 2  calling  days,  we  phoned  over  50%  of  our  total  alumni  body.  The  results  certain]! 
justified  our  initial  decision  to  raise  money  in  this  way,  tor  we  received  in  excess  of  $125,000  through 
telephone  pledges.  1  was  involved  in  several  of  these  in  t  he  eastern  New  England  area  and  I  can  say  withe 
hesitation  that  I  think  ail  alumni  who  participated  really  enjoyed  themselves  while  performing  a  very 

irthwhile  servii  e  tor  their  Alma  Mater  I  commend  Phonothon  Chairman  Howard  I.  Nelson  '54  of 
(  a.itton.  \1.\  ,ni(i  his  entire  Phonothon  Task  Force  tor  their  extraordinary  organizational  efforts  which 
made  this  program  bu<  h  ,i  su<  <  ess. 


WPI  Journal 


Another  highly  successful  effort  has  been  the  Anniversary  Gift  Program  which  focuses  on  the  classes 
elebrating  25th,  40th  and  50th  reunions.  Last  year,  the  classes  of  1926, 1936  and  1951  with  Milton  C. 
erglund  '26  of  Hyannis,  MA;  George  E.  Rocheford  '36  of  Natick,  MA;  and  Robert  C.  Wolff  '51  of 
ambridge,  NY  as  the  respective  chairmen  generated  almost  one  quarter  of  a  million  dollars  for  WPI.  All 
iree  classes  restricted  their  gifts  to  the  renovation  of  Salisbury  Hall.  At  the  reunion  luncheon  in  June,  they 
resented  some  extraordinary  gifts  to  President  Hazzard  for  the  College.  For  example,  the  Class  of  1926 
resented  a  gift  totaling  $180,675.90,  which  included  a  bequest  from  a  classmate  of  $125 ,000  in  addition  to 
le  $55,675.90  donated  by  the  class  and  matched  in  part  by  corporate  funding.  The  Class  of  1936  presented 
gift  of  $24,295.00,  and  the  Class  of  1951  contributed  $28,867.52.  Both  of  these  amounts  included 
Drporate  matching  gifts.  I  sincerely  thank  Milt,  George  and  Bob,  along  with  all  of  their  classmates  who 
articipated  in  the  program  as  volunteers  and  donors.  In  addition,  I  extend  a  very  special  thanks  to  Daniel 
Maguire  '66  of  Stow,  MA,  an  Alumni  Fund  Board  member  who  served  as  the  national  chairman  once 
^ain  last  year  for  the  Anniversary  Gift  Program. 

Particularly  pleasing  to  me  is  the  fact  that  the  total  for  the  fund  was  approximately  $67,000  (or  30%) 
reater  than  the  previous  year.  As  we  all  know,  our  Alma  Mater  has  gone  through  some  very  dramatic  and 
npressive  changes  in  recent  years,  and  it  is  tremendously  gratifying  for  me  to  see  alumni  of  our  college 
)me  forth  in  such  a  generous  and  helpful  way  to  support  these  changes. 

Finally  and  imperatively,  a  very  special  and  heartfelt  thanks  to  each  of  theFund  Board  members.  They 
ave  made  my  job  as  Chairman  of  the  Fund  Board  exceptionally  easy,  and  it  has  been  extremely  enjoyable 
i  work  with  them.  In  addition  to  Mr.  Maguire  and  Mr.  Nelson,  I  extend  my  profound  appreciation  to  three 

her  gentlemen.  The  leadership  talents  "of  Leonard  H.  White  '41  of  Worcester,  Chairman  of  the  President's 
dvisory  Council,  have  enabled  the  P.A.C.  to  grow  from  17  members  four  years  ago  to  90  members 
irrently.  Peter  H.  Horstmann  '55  of  Holden,  MA,  Chairman  of  the  Special  Gifts  Program,  has  recently 
Dmpleted  a  major  effort  in  support  of  the  College.  And  G.  Albert  Anderson  '51  of  Gardner,  MA  is 
hairman  of  the  newly-inaugurated  Class  Agent  Program.  Without  the  help  of  these  key  individuals,  our 

forts  and  even  our  results  might  have  been  smaller  and  would  certainly  have  been  more  difficult. 

To  each  and  every  volunteer  —  Fund  Board  members,  phonothon  callers,  anniversary  and  special  gift 
rogram  people  —  and  to  all  the  donors,  I  offer  my  wholehearted  gratitude  for  your  generosity  and 
ssistance.  The  students  of  WPI  today  are  the  true  beneficiaries  of  your  support.  We  are  pleased  that  your 
fforts  and  the  funds  we  have  raised  will  support  so  significantly  the  continuing  operations  of  the  College. 

Yes,  it  was  an  extraordinary  year! 


Sincerely, 


Walter  J.  Charow  '49 

Alumni  Fund  Board  Chairman 


GIVING  BY  CLASS 


Class 

1890 
1895 
1896 
1897 
1900 
1901 
1902 
1903 
1905 
1906 
1907 
1908 
1909 
1910 
1911 
1912 
1913 
1914 
1915 
1916 
1917 
1918 
1919 
1920 
1921 
1922 
1923 
1924 
1925 
1926 
1927 
1928 
1929 
L930 
1931 
1932 
1933 
1934 
1935 
1936 
1937 
1938 
1939 
1940 
1941 
1942 
194:5 
1944 
1945 
1946 
1947 
1948 
194') 

1950 
1951 
i  95  i 
195  ( 
1954 
1955 

19")  7 

I960 
1961 


\ umber  in 
Class 

1 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
2 
6 
2 
7 
8 

12 

10 

15 

12 

25 

26 

29 

35 

40 

53 

43 

34 

64 

49 

75 

61 

51 

64 
102 

74 

84 

81 
114 
114 
105 
118 
111 
132 
101 
107 
134 
140 
151 
154 
161 
141 
153 
141 
314 

79 
188 
242 
211 
194 
173 
184 
157 
148 
163 
229 
235 
277 
297 

M  i 

264 

320 


Number  of 
Cash  Gifts 


Total  Cash 
Gifts 


Percent 
Participation 


1 

$   25.00 

1 

50.00 

1 

50.00 

1 

5.00 

3 

355.00 

5 

361.66 

5 

350.00 

1 

200.00 

1 

100.00 

8 

505.00 

8 

870.00 

10 

1,963.55 

8 

881.76 

14 

1,620.00 

15 

1,005.00 

19 

1,280.00 

15 

4,064.80 

26 

2,905.00 

16 

1,335.00 

32 

3,600.00 

21 

3,052.80 

23 

2,754.70 

10 

625.00 

59 

25,422.40 

37 

7,000.00 

49 

9.346.35 

27 

1,935.00 

45 

4,373.00 

46 

3,010.00 

38 

2,391.54 

47 

4,745.00 

41 

3,440.00 

43 

5,095.00 

53 

7.028.00 

46 

9,909.25 

56 

21,789.00 

60 

3.870.00 

59 

4,361.45 

59 

3,600.00 

60 

3,905.00 

58 

3.501.00 

56 

4,425.00. 

46 

3,964.96 

106 

7,065.08 

29 

1,450.00 

68 

3,563.00 

81 

6,275.00 

74 

4,598.00 

107 

10,926.07 

37 

5,300.00 

61 

5,868.00 

58 

3.530.00 

47 

2.545.00 

53 

3.155.00 

71 

3,305.00 

84 

3.502.00 

102 

5,310.00 

93 

4. 800. 00 

106 

5,252.60 

81 

3.520.00 

92 

1,085.00 

91 

4,205.96 

50.00 
16.66 
50.00 
14.28 
37.50 
41.66 
50.00 
6.66 
8.33 
32.00 
30.76 
34.48 
22.85 
35.00 
28.30 
44.18 
44.11 
40.62 
32.65 
42.66 
34.42 
45.09 
15.62 
57.84 
50.00 
58.33 
33.33 
39.47 
40.35 
36.19 
39.83 
36.93 
32.57 
52.47 
42.99 
41.79 
42.85 
39.07 
38.31 
37.26 
41.13 
36.60 
32.62 
33.75 
36.70 
36.17 
33.47 
35.07 
55.15 
21.38 
3  3.15 

36.94 

3  1.75 
32.5  1 
31.00 
35.74 
36.82 
31.31 
33.65 
28.52 
34.84 
28.43 


WPI  Journal 


65 
66 

67 
68 
69 

70 
71 
72 
73 
74 
75 

)TAL 


323 
344 
352 
447 
354 
390 
460 
351 
540 
478 
467 

11,530 


103 

105 
91 

119 
99 
82 

100 
69 

124 
90 
34 

3,686 


TOTAL  COMMITMENT  (CASH  +  OUTSTANDING  PLEDGES) 


3,842.62 

31.88 

3,831.33 

30.52 

2,918.24 

25.85 

4,775.00 

26.62 

3,125.00 

27.96 

3,010.00 

21.02 

3,063.96 

21.73 

1,760.00 

19.65 

4,372.00 

22.96 

2,202.00 

18.82 

656.50 

7.28 

$282,883.58 

31.97 

[NG  PLEDGES)  = 

=  $332,080.43 

37.30 
36.48 
32.06 
40.12 
31.56 
36.70 
30.63 
25.50 
35.25 
24.46 
19.30 

$76.74 


GIVING  BY  CHAPTER 


iapter 

Number  in 

Number  of 

Total 

Percent 

Average 

tme 

Chapter 

Cash  Gifts 

Cash  Gifts 

Participation 

Gift 

rkshire 

69 

21 

$      1,150.00 

30.43 

$   54.76 

iston 

1,087 

311 

28,964.56 

28.61 

93.13 

ntral  New  York 

109 

53 

3,126.25 

48.62 

58.98 

ticago 

141 

43 

4,630.00 

30.49 

107.67 

ncinnati 

52 

16 

1,235.00 

30.76 

77.18 

eveland 

97 

35 

4,015.00 

36.08 

114.71 

mnecticut  Valley 

365 

130 

17,805.50 

35.61 

136.96 

troit 

110 

45 

3,040.00 

40.90 

67.55 

stern  Connecticut 

170 

57 

2,985.00 

33.52 

52.36 

irtford 

713 

260 

16,055.00 

36.46 

61.75 

idson-Mohawk 

184 

74 

4,627.82 

40.21 

62.53 

s  Angeles 

278 

87 

5,541.45 

31.29 

63.69 

w  Haven 

432 

137 

7,790.00 

31.71 

56.86 

w  York 

517 

158 

13,543.00 

30.56 

85.71 

rth  Shore 

353 

121 

6,092.96 

34.27 

50.35 

Tthern  California 

199 

74 

5,560.00 

37.18 

75.13 

rthern  New  Jersey 

475 

212 

19,885.00 

44.63 

93.79 

:ific  Northwest 

50 

11 

1,105.00 

22.00 

100.45 

iladelphia 

332 

118 

7,358.00 

35.54 

62.35 

tsburgh 

85 

44 

3,690.00 

51.76 

83.86 

ode  Island 

392 

112 

10,595.06 

28.57 

94.59 

chester-Genessee 

130 

53 

3,085.00 

40.76 

58.20 

atheastern 

85 

22 

1,222.00 

25.88 

55.54 

Louis 

21 

8 

290.00 

38.09 

36.25 

ishington 

465 

205 

12,219.62 

44.08 

59.60 

.'stern  New  York 

85 

31 

1,529.70 

36.47 

49.34 

lmington 

107 

53 

3,780.00 

49.53 

71.32 

)rcester 

2,024 

540 

40,555.71 

26.67 

75.10 

t  Of  District 

1,601 

639 

49,923.53 

39.91 

78.12 

dress  Unknown 

564 

2 

120.00 

.35 

60.00 

t  Assigned 

238 

14 

1,363.42 

5.88 

97.38 

ITALS 

11,530 

3,686 

$282,883.58 

31.97 

$    76.74 

1976  ANNIVERSARY  GIFTS 


Class  of  1926 
Class  of  1936 
Class  of  1951 

including  a  bequest  of  $125,000 


$180,675.90* 
$  24,295.00 
$   28,867.52 


All  Anniversary  Gifts  were  applied  to  the  renovation  of  Salis- 
bury Hall. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  23 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are  based 
had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni  Association 
before  November  7,  when  it  was  compiled  for 
publication.  Information  received  after  that 
date  will  be  used  in  succeeding  issues  of  the  WPI 
Journal. 


1912 

The  second  Main  Street  in  Marlboro,  Mass., 
which  is  expected  to  be  the  pivotal  point  in  the 
redevelopment  of  the  downtown  area,  has  been 
named  Granger  Boulevard  for  J.  Francis 
Granger,  who  has  served  the  city  for  over  fifty 
years.  For  thirty-four  years  he  served  as 
Marlboro's  superintendent  of  streets  and  as  city 
engineer  He  was  also  clerk  of  the  works  for 
Marlboro  Hospital.  A  partner  in  Granger, 
Thompson  and  Liston,  he  is  currently  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Marlboro  Hospital  board  of  trustees 
and  chairman  of  the  high  school  building  com- 
mittee For  many  years  he  has  served  as  secre- 
tary of  the  Massachusetts  Highway  Association. 


1921 

Joseph  Kushner  is  a  sales  manager  at  Consoli- 
dated Brokers,  Inc  ,  New  Haven,  Conn. 


1922 


A  member  of  the  reunion  committee  and  self- 
appointed  spokesman  for  class  president  Wayne 
Keith,  Larry  Larson,  reminds  the  members  of  the 
illustrious  class  of  1 922  that  their  55th  is  only 
months  away  and  to  keep  the  1977  alumni 
reunion  weekend  open  (June  9,  10,  and  1 1) 


1933 


Leighton  Jackson  retired  from  duPont  in  June 

•virly  43  years  of  service        Alfred  Parker 
has  been  appointed  technical  director  of  chemi- 
cal engineering  research  at  the  John  Blizard 
'  Poster  Wheeler  Energy 
i  ivingston,  N  J  Since  1944  he  has  served 
engineer,  proposal  engineer,  head  of 
the  rherr.iral  engineering  department,  and  man- 
laboratory  He 
ijstee  of  Engineer- 
ing || 


1938 

Walter  Knapp  was  selected  the  1 976  winner  of 
the  Durrance  Award  by  the  International  Frater- 
nity of  Phi  Gamma  Delta.  The  award  is  given  for 
leadership  within  the  fraternity. 


1939 

Walter  Longnecker  has  retired  from  Gould  Inc., 
Cleveland,  Ohio,  where  he  had  served  as  a  vice 
president. 


1946 


1941 


Donald  Smith  has  been  recommended  as  vice 
president  for  development  and  public  affairs  at 
Southern  Methodist  University,  his  appointment 
having  yet  to  be  formally  approved  by  SMU 
trustees.  Smith,  a  former  alumni  secretary  at  WPI 
and  official  at  Washington  &  Lee  University,  and 
the  University  of  Rochester  (N.Y.),  for  the  past 
six  years  has  headed  Smith,  Hazlett  &  Darcy, 
Inc.,  in  Rochester.  The  firm  provides  counseling 
services  to  educational,  cultural  and  health  care 
institutions. 


1942 

Charles  Berry  holds  the  position  of  eastern  sales 
manager  at  Kinemetrics,  Inc.,  in  San  Gabriel, 
Calif. 


1943 


S.  Bailey  Norton,  Jr.,  president  of  Acme  Chain, 
Holyoke,  Mass.,  has  been  elected  a  director  of 
AIM  (Associated  Industries  of  Massachusetts). 
Norton  joined  Acme  Chain  in  1950.  He  has 
served  the  company  as  vice  president  of  man- 
ufacturing, and  general  manager  of  the  Acme 
Chain  division  under  its  new  owner,  Rockwell 
International.  In  December  1975  when  the  divi- 
sion was  acquired  by  Incom  International,  he 
was  elected  president,  with  his  responsibilities 
extending  to  Incom  Singapore  Pte.,  Ltd. 


1945 


Bertrand  Mills,  vice  president  of  manufacturing 
at  Carrier  Corporation,  serves  on  the  production 
editorial  advisory  board  of  the  Dana  Chase 
publication,  Appliance.  He  joined  Carrier  as 
president  of  the  Carlyle  Compressor  Company 
division  in  1970.  In  1946  he  started  his  career  at 
GE,  holding  positions  in  engineering,  manufac- 
turing, and  general  management 


Clayton  Adams  is  with  Bath  (Me.)  Iron  Work1 
Corp.  .  .  .  Donald  Ferguson  currently  holds  th 
post  of  corporate  vice  president  of  manufacti 
ingattheSingerCompanyin  NewYorkCity.  .1 
Prescott  Grout  has  been  named  adjunct  assis1 
ant  professor  of  humanities  at  Nichols  Colleg 
Dudley,  Mass.  .  .  .  Julius  Palley  and  his  broth . 
Arthur  of  Commonwealth  Stationers,  Inc., 
Worcester,  are  currently  renovating  a  collectii 
of  factory  buildings  on  Union  Street  built  by  I 
Stephen  Salisbury  in  1892.  A  number  of  tenant- 
including  a  clothing  store,  are  already  taking 
advantage  of  the  complex  which  will  ultimate 
be  landscaped  and  be  adjacent  to  the  propos1 
Worcester  Center  Boulevard  and  a  new  polio 
station  across  from  Court  Hill. 


1947 


Russell  Smith  recently  attended  a  meeting  of  e 
International  Electrotechnical  Commission  in 
Nice,  France.  This  commission  is  charged  witf 
the  responsibility  of  setting  standards  for  indb 
trial  and  scientific  apparatus  sold  in  internation 
markets.  Russ  is  the  U.S.  delegate  to  the  comrr- 
tee  developing  such  standards  for  locomotive 
and  other  electric  traction  equipment.  Presem 
he  is  the  manager  of  electric  locomotive  en- 
gineering for  the  General  Electric  Company  in 
Erie,  Pa. 


1948 


Currently  Eli  Braley  holds  the  post  of  president 
Hathaway  Machinery  Co.,  Inc.,  Fairhaven, 
Mass. 


1949 


Capt.  Bohdan  Boluch,  who  has  retired  after  2 
years  of  service  with  the  Massachusetts  State 
Police,  was  recently  honored  at  a  testimonial 
dinner  in  Northampton.  At  his  retirement  he  w 
commander  of  Troop  B,  Northampton. . . . 
Francis  Carini  is  a  research  scientist  at  Johnson 
Johnson  Research  in  New  Brunswick,  N.J. 


1950 


Gov.  Ella  T.  Grasso  of  Connecticut  has  named 
Robert  Stewart  to  the  University  of  Connectic 
Board  of  trustees  for  a  five-year  term.  He  is  vi< 
president  for  strategic  planning  and  group  vie 
president  for  flight  systems  and  equipment  at 
United  Technologies.  .  .  .  William  Carpenter, 
having  completed  25  years  of  service  with  Fosl 
Wheeler  Energy  Corp.  in  Livingston,  N.J.,  cuh 
rently  serves  as  assistant  to  the  manager  of  th 
equipment  division,  licensing  department.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1951  and  since  then  has  be< 
promoted  to  sales  engineer,  district  manager, 
and  project  manager  in  the  contract  control 
department.  He  is  past  president  and  trustee  ( 
the  Puddingstone  Community  Club  and  past 
president  of  the  Hudson-Mohawk  chapter  oft 
WPI  Alumni  Association. 


WPI  Journal 


951 


1956 


1960 


ter  Groop  was  recently  named  vice  president 
sales  at  the  newly  created  Rexene  Polyolef  ins 
>.  located  in  Paramus,  N.J.  He  worked  for  the 
m  for  ten  years  prior  to  its  reorganization.  . . . 
)n  Lewis,  who  resigned  from  Monsanto  after 
.  years,  is  now  vice  president  and  general 
inageratConsupak,  Inc.Morristown,  N.J — 
ibert  Luce  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at  PPG 
justries,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  .  .  .  Joseph  Thomas 
Ids  the  post  of  director  of  engineering  re- 
urces  at  GTE  Sylvania,  Stamford,  Conn.  He  is 
th  the  GTE  consumer  products  business 
Dup,  a  world-wide  activity. 


952 


illowing  graduation  from  WPI,  Joe  Jiunnies 
ined  duPont.  Currently  he  is  assistant  superin- 
ndent  of  the  reactor  and  heavy  water  depart- 
ents  at  duPont's  Savannah  (Ga.)  River  Plant 
d  Laboratory.  . .  .  Daniel  Stoughton  is  man- 
;er  of  the  industrial  division  at  Synergo  Co., 
liladelphia. 


953 


ivid  Beach  has  been  appointed  a  product 
;sign  manager  in  the  consumer  products  en- 
neering  area  at  Kodak  Apparatus  Division  in 
xhester,  N.Y.  He  started  at  Kodak  in  1 953  and 
,s  served  as  an  assistant  engineer  in  still  camera 
•sign,  administrative  assistant  on  the  manage- 
ent  staff  at  Kodak  office,  and  was  advanced  to 
nior  supervising  development  engineer  in  still 
rture  engineering  in  1974.  He  is  a  member  of 
e  Society  of  Photographic  Scientists  and  En- 
neers.  . . .  George  Crozier  serves  as  director  of 
oject  management  at  Monsanto  Enviro  Chem 
stems,  Inc.  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri.  .  . .  Charles 
inagan  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of  the 
tomotive  group  at  Bendix  Corp.  in  Troy,  Mich. 
.  Gene  Larson  was  recently  named  commis- 
•ner  of  public  works  in  Newton  Centre,  Mass. 
eviously  he  was  building  commissioner. 


954 


'illiam  Hills  is  the  author  of  "Future  Trends  in 
;xturedYarn  Manufacture"  which  appeared  in 
eJune  issue  of  Fiber  Producer.  For  17  years  he 
as  with  the  textiles  and  new  enterprise  divi- 
ons  at  Monsanto.  Today  he  is  the  president  of 
ills  Research  &  Development,  Inc.,  Melbourne, 
a.  His  firm  developed  the  Sahm  Super  Speed 
•xturing  machine  on  a  contract  basis.  . . .  Paul 
/agenknecht  has  been  appointed  manager  of 
)iporate  engineering  at  Iniand  Container  Cor- 
oration's  headquarters  in  Indianapolis.  Previ- 
usly  he  was  with  Westvaco,  Rice  Barton  Corp., 
id  A.  P.  Wagenknecht  Company,  afamily- 
wned  manufacturing  company  of  auxiliary 
quipment  for  the  paper  industry. 


955 


i/illiam  Johnson  operates  Wm.  Johnson 

eather  Co.  in  Madison,  Wis Robert  Kirkpat- 

ck  serves  as  a  senior  analyst  for  Coastal  States 
ias  Corp.,  Houston,  Texas. 


Currently  an  associate  professor  of  management 
at  Southeastern  Massachusetts  University,  Dr. 
Howard  Brown  has  become  a  partner  in  Univer- 
sity Collaborative.  The  university  was  recently 
organized  to  enable  a  group  of  university  and 
community  professionals  to  deal  with  needs  of 
individuals  and  organizations  by  offering  con- 
sulting services  in  a  wide  range  of  human- 
resource-oriented  areas,  seminars,  specially- 
designed  programs,  and  organization  develop- 
ment. ...  Dr.  Raymond  Hagglund,  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI,  received  an 
award  from  the  American  Society  for  Engineer- 
ing Education  in  October.  The  Western  Electric 
Fund  Award,  which  includes  a  citation  and  a 
$1 ,000  grant,  was  presented  at  a  dinner  held  at 
the  University  of  Maine  in  Orono.  .  . .  Jack 
McHugh  has  been  elected  president  of  the 
Waterbury  (Conn.)  Exchange  Club.  He  is  presi- 
dent of  his  own  firm,  the  Royal  Screw  Machine 
Products  Co.  and  serves  on  the  board  of  advisors 
of  Waterbury  State  Technical  College.  He  has 
also  been  president  of  the  local  Smaller  Business 
Manufacturers  Association. 


1957 


John  Atchison  recently  resigned  from  E.C.I,  in  St. 
Petersburg,  Fla.  and  is  now  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Mitre  Corp.,  Bedford,  Mass. . . . 
Dr.  Rene  Bertrand  is  the  co-author  of  "Environ- 
mental Aspects  of  Coal  Gasification"  which  ap- 
peared in  CEP-Chemical  Engineering  Progress. 
He  is  manager  of  the  Fuels  Utilization  and  Con- 
version Section  at  Exxon's  Government  Re- 
search Laboratories.  .  .  .  Arthur  Sullivan  is  a 
manager  for  INCO  in  Bellevue,  Washington. 


1958 

Charles  Cushman  holds  the  post  of  product 
development  engineer  at  Dunlop  Sports  Division 
in  Westminster,  S.C.  . .  .  George  Walker,  SIM, 
has  been  appointed  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  Johnson  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  Inc., 
Worcester.  Previously  he  was  vice  president  for 
administration  and  had  also  served  as  plant 
manager  at  Worcester.  He  has  been  with  the 
firm  since  1950. 


1959 


Robert  Berg  is  marketing  manager  at  American 
Standard,  Inc.,  Lexington,  Ky.  . .  .  W.  U.  Pursell, 
Jr.  serves  as  plant  manager  of  Hydrils'  Tubular 
plants  in  Rochester,  Pa.  and  Youngstown,  Ohio. 
He  has  passed  the  certification  exams  given  by 
the  American  Production  and  Inventory  Control 
Society.  . .  .  Bob  Sharkey  of  Shark's  Marine, 
Keene,  N.H.  has  moved  his  business  outto  a 
main  highway  and  put  up  a  new  steel  building 
with  about  three  times  more  space  than  the  old. 
He  has  also  increased  his  line  to  include  chain 
saws,  wood  splitters,  and  Arctic  Cats.  Bob  and 
his  wife,  Eve,  are  part-time  farmers  and  have  a 
steer,  pigs,  sheep,  and  chickens.  . .  .  Ronald 
Swenson  is  manager  of  corporate  engineering 
systems  at  Xerox  in  Webster,  N.Y. 


Sang  Ki  Lee  has  been  transferred  from  the 
Motorola  Patent  Department  in  Phoenix  to  the 
firm's  patent  department  in  the  Chicago  area 
where  he  will  serve  as  division  attorney  for  the 
Communications  Group,  International  Division. 
....  Raymond  Levesque,  former  manager  of 
services  in  the  aerospace  structural  adhesives 
division  of  American  Cyanamid,  has  relocated  to 
the  Wallingford  (Conn.)  plant,  where  he  serves 
as  manager  of  material  services  in  the  plastics 
and  resins  division.  .  . .  William  Linke  was 
recently  promoted  to  junior  process  engineer  at 
the  Bard-Parker  plant  in  Hancock,  N.Y.  In  his 
new  position  he  will  be  responsible  for  process 
improvement  and  implementing  process  de- 
velopment programs.  Previously  he  was  an  elec- 
tro mechanical  technician.  . .  .  Norman  Mack,  a 
district  agent  of  the  New  York/Arden  general 
agency  of  National  Life  Insurance  Co.  of  Ver- 
mont, has  earned  membership  in  the  1 976  Pres- 
ident's Club.  The  club  recognizes  outstanding 
client  services  and  sales.  Mack  is  located  in  Great 
Neck,  N.Y.  . . .  Edward  Russell  has  been  named 
general  manager  of  GE's  lamp  business  in 
Mexico.  Formerly  he  was  group  strategic  plan- 
ning manager  for  the  firm's  consumer  products 
group  in  Fairfield,  Conn. . . .  Richard  Tufts  is  now 
with  Maryland  Casualty  Co.  in  Baltimore. 


1961 

Francis  Cichowski  owns  Industrial  Design  Com- 
pany in  Southington,  Conn. .  . .  Currently 
Richard  Davis  holds  the  post  of  executive  editor 
at  EW  Communications,  publishers  of  Mic- 
rowave Systems  News  and  EW  Magazine.  Both 
are  trade-press  monthlies  for  engineers  in  the 
industry.  Davis  is  presently  located  in  Los  Altos, 
Calif.  . .  .  Martin  Gordon  has  been  appointed  to 
the  position  of  marketing  manager  for  Analog  to 
Digital  Systems  at  Analogic  in  Wakefield,  Mass. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  the  overall  marketing 
efforts  for  A-D  Systems  including  key  account 
marketing  and  market  and  product  definition. 
Earlier  he  was  with  Transitron  Electronic  Corpo- 
ration and  Digital  Electronic  Corporation.  .  . . 
William  Hoduer  is  a  project  engineer  at  Albany 
Engineered  Systems  in  Glens  Falls,  N.Y. . . . 
Continuing  with  the  American  International 
Group  in  New  York  City,  James  Tolos  is  currently 
regional  engineering  manager. 


1962 


Married:  John  Szymanski  and  Miss  Eileen  A. 
McCook  in  Osterville,  Massachusetts  on  Oc- 
tober 2,  1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Boston 
College  and  received  her  MS  from  Boston  Uni- 
versity. She  is  executive  director  of  the  Visiting 
Nurse  Association,  Central  Cape  Cod,  Inc.  Her 
husband  is  president  of  Paradise  Travel  Service, 
Inc.,  Allston,  Mass.  He  received  his  MBA  from 
B.U. 

Joseph  Baldasaro  has  been  promoted  to  the 
position  of  material  controls  manager  for  Speidel 
Division  of  Textron,  Inc.  He  joined  Speidel  in 
1 968.  Active  in  community  affairs,  Baldasaro  has 
held  office  and  served  in  several  civic  organiza- 
tions. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  25 


Solar  houses  in  Vermont 
by  Jim  Kachadorianr  '61 


How  would  you  like  a  three-bedroom 
solar  home  that  heats  and  eools  itself  and 
costs  (30,000?  It  the  prospect  sounds  in- 
viting James  Kachadurian,  '61,  president 
of  Green  Mountain  Homes  in  Royalton, 
Vermont,  ean  help  you  make  youi  dream 
house  a  reality. 

A  former  planning  and  scheduling  en- 
gineer  tor  the  Bechtel  Corporation  at  the 
Peach  Button,  Pa.,  nuclear  plant, 
Kacliadonan  was  the  general  manager  for 
a  home  manufacturing  operation  for  a 
number  ot  years  pnor  to  the  recent  open- 
ing of  Green  Mountain  Homes.  His  wite 
Lea  a  graduate  of  Middlebury  College, 
does  all  ot  the  artwork  and  advertising  tor 
the  housing  firm.  Both  are  pleased  with 
the  growing  success  ot  Green  Mountain 
Homes 

kacliadonan  has  made  a  Eresh  analyti- 
cal approach  to  home  design  tor  the 
seventies  [  lis  designs  are  based  on  energy 
conservation,  affordability,  high  quality, 
and  appealing  architecture  I  lis  products 

arc  factory-produced  panelized  solai 
homes  with  design  features  so  flexible 

that  he  can  meet  almost  any  home  build 

requirements  His  houses  are  de- 
signed totill  a  void  in  the  present  housing 
field  tor  homes  which  aie  low  in  initial 

nerg)  demands,  and  maintenance, 

set  high  in  qualit)  materials,  i  i.ittsman 

ship,  and  attrat  trveness 


Kachadorian's  solar  design  is  a  carefully 
researched  system  which  he  claims  yields 
the  highest  possible  heating  or  air  condi- 
tioning savings  for  the  lowest  possible 
purchase  price  and  yearly  operating  cost. 
The  architectural  design  and  function  are 
unified,  incorporating  the  entire  house  as 
a  solar  collection  and  storage  unit.  The 
houses  are  built  of  wood  with  mul- 
tilayered  roof  and  walls  including  extra 
layers  ot  insulation.  Air  entrance  locks 
help  reduce  heat  losses.  The  average  heat 
loss  per  square  foot  of  living  space  per 
degree  day  is  approximately  one  half  that 
experienced  by  what  was  considered  to  be 
a  well  insulated  house  a  few  years  ago. 

Green  Mountain  houses  combine  the 
classic  bam  shapes  of  the  Vermont  land- 
scape with  an  ingeniously  simple  solar 
design,  presenting  an  exciting  break- 
through tor  the  housing  market.  Kacliado- 
nan has  eschewed  the  usual  collecting 
panels,  liquid-tilled  roof  collectors,  and 


complicated  machinery  found  on  otherB 
solar  buildings.  His  unique  solar  systerb 
simply  uses  east,  west,  and  south  facing 
windows  to  collect  heat  via  the 
greenhouse  effect.  According  to  KachatM 
rian,  windows  are  the  most  efficient  sor 
collectors  known.  A  south  facing  windt " 
is  about  80  per  cent  efficient  while  the  1 
best  liquid  roof  collector  is  between  401 
and  60  per  cent  efficient.  Therefore,  he  j 
needs  to  use  only  about  one-half  die  gkj 
area  to  collect  the  same  amount  of  solal- 
energy  as  compared  to  a  roof-mounted  L 
collection  system.  Excess  heat  is  storeci 
within  the  first  floor  concrete  subsyste> 
—  what  Green  Mountain  Homes  calls  B 
their  "solar  slab."  Stored  heat  sub- 
sequently helps  heat  the  home  at  night 
and  on  cold  days  by  radiation.  A  hot  war 
preheater  is  contained  within  the  systerjj 
Thermo-shutters,  manually  operated  oi 
the  inside  of  windows  and  sliding  glass 
doors,  further  reduce  heat  loss  at  night. 

The  special  solar  system  is  particular' 
complementary  to  wood  burning  since 
the  house  is  designed  to  redistribute  he; 
generated  in  an  isolated  area.  For  instant, 
excess  heat  derived  from  a  wood-bumir 
stove  in  a  family  room  could  be  either  I 
distributed  to  other  parts  of  the  house  o 
placed  in  storage. 

To  reverse  the  system  for  summer  cot 
ing,  night  air  is  put  into  storage  from 
midnight  until  four  a.m.,  thereby  chillh; 
the  solar  slab.  This  prepares  the  slab  to 
absorb  the  heat  of  the  clay,  helping  redu< 
the  electrical  demand  on  air  conditionii 
equipment. 

Kachadorian  predicts  his  model  home 
solar  system  will  carry  about  40  per  cen 
of  the  total  heat  load,  based  on  Vermont; 
severe  8086  degree-day  heating  season.  \ 
The  Green  Mountain  Homes  solar  con- 
cept is  being  studied  by  the  Central  Ver 
mont  Public  Service  Corporation  and    I 
Dartmouth's  Thayer  School  of  Engineei 
ing,  both  of  which  are  monitoring  the 
solar  equipped  office  .model  home  in 
Royalton  on  a  24- hour  basis. 

The  many  sizes  and  designs  of  Green  J 
Mountain  Homes  allow  planning  flexibi 
lty  and  growth  potential  and  units  may  b 
combined  at  a  later  date.  All  homes  can  1 
purchased  in  kit  form. 

"We  have  addressed  ourselves  to  evci 
obvious  aspect  of  the  buildi  ng  over  whic 
the  manufacturer  and  builder  could  hay 
control.  In  every  area  we  have  been  able  i 
effect  cost  reductions  and  at  the  same 
time  provide  functional  design,"  report.1 
Kachadorian.  "The  initial  solar  monitoi 
ing  ot  the  operational  model  home  has 
shown  some  exciting  preliminary  re- 
sults," he  says.  "But  we  do  have  one 
problem.  The  customers  have  been  kee] 
ing  our  men  so  busy  that  they  haven't  ha 
time  to  finish  off  the  interior  oi  the  mode 
houseyet!" 


WPI  Journal 


1963 

Aarried:  Dr.  Robert  M.  Desmond  and  Miss 
lynthia  J.  Doolittle  in  Syracuse,  New  York  on 
uly  30,  1976.  Mrs.  Desmond  graduated  from 
'owelson  Business  Institute,  attended  Grove 
lity  College,  and  has  been  employed  at  the 
i/lerchants  National  Bank.  The  bridegroom  is  a 
irofessor  and  head  of  the  mechanical  engineer- 
ig  department  at  Rochester  Institute  of 
'echnology. 

Joseph  Mielinksi  has  been  named  manager  of 
jperations  at  Alden  Research  Laboratories.  For 
he  last  six  years  he  has  been  an  administrative 
issistant  at  WPI.  Formerly  he  was  with  duPont 
ind  General  Electric. . . . 

William  Zinno  has  joined  Dresser  Clark, 
3lean,N.Y.  as  project  manager,  inventory  man- 
igement.  He  will  design  and  implement  new 
omputer-assisted  manufacturing  systems  and 
>e  responsible  for  a  task  force  representing 
■arious  disciplines  within  the  division.  Previously 
ie  had  been  manager  of  manufacturing  plan- 
ling  and  control  for  Industrial  Nucleonics  Corp. 
i  Columbus,  Ohio.  . . .  Robert  Magnant,  who 
ecently  received  his  MS  from  the  University  of 
Colorado,  is  the  author  of  a  telecommunications 
tudy, DomesticSatillite:  An FCCGiantStep.  He 
i  chief  engineer  for  U.S.  Army  Communications 
t  Ft.  Ritchie,  Maryland. 


1964 

lorn:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gerald  Tammi  their  first 
hild,  a  daughter  Abigail,  on  March  24,  1976.  • 
jerry  is  with  Fairchild  Cameron  Instrument  in 
At.  View,  California. 
John  Camera  holds  the  post  of  vice  president 
t  Camera  Construction  Co.,  Inc.  in  West 
tertford,  Conn.  ...  Dr.  Wayne  Keene  is  one  of 
our  Raytheon  Company  engineers  responsible 
or  the  invention  of  a  laser  radar  system  that  uses 
iptimum  predetection  amplificiation  for  the  re- 
urn  signal.  The  patent  covering  the  invention 
y/as  recently  assigned  to  Raytheon.  Keene  is 
nanager  of  the  equipment  division's  advanced 
lectro-optical  techniques  section  and  collabo- 
ated  on  two  other  projects  resulting  in  patents 
or  an  optical  scanner  and  a  clear  air  turbulance 
letector.  He  joined  Raytheon  in  1965.  . .  .  Prof, 
tobert  Peura  has  been  named  acting  director  of 
liomedical  engineering  at  WPI. 


1965 


'at  Moran  now  works  for  Digital  Equipment  in 
\Aaynard,  Mass. 


1966 


Carried:  Richard  B.  Nelson  and  Mrs.  Sherrie  P. 
Beck  on  July  10,  1976  in  Shreveport,  Louisiana. 
Randy  Beck,  the  bride's  younger  son,  served  as 
best  man,  with  daughter  Leslie  serving  as  maid 
of  honor  and  older  son,  David,  giving  the  bride 
away.  The  bridegroom  is  an  independent  oil  and 
gas  producer  in  Shreveport. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Peter  J.  Kudless  their 
fourth  child,  Stephen  Paul,  on  July  3 1 ,  1 976. 
Pete  was  recently  promoted  to  senior  construc- 
tion engineer  at  Public  Service  Electric  &  Gas 
Company  in  New  Jersey.  Currently  he  has  been 
assigned  to  the  Hope  Creek  Generating  Station 
in  Hancocks  Ridge,  N.J.  Also,  he  has  been  prom- 


oted to  Lt.  Cdr.  in  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  with 
the  Naval  Reserve,  and  is  Alpha  Company  com- 
mander for  Reserve  Navy  Mobile  Construction 
1 3 .  Alpha  Co.  was  named  honor  company  re- 
cently. Serving  with  Pete  are  LCDR  Skip  Kuntz, 
'66,  and  Lt.  Phil  Clark,  '67. 

Joseph  Acker  holds  the  post  of  production 
manager  at  FMC  Corporation's  agricultural 
chemical  division  in  Middleport,  N.Y.  . .  .  Capt. 
Howard  Braley  (USAF)  serves  as  a  project  officer 
for  the  Space  and  Missile  Systems  Office,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif.  Recently  he  received  the  U.  S.  Air 
Force  Air  Commendation  Medal.  . .  .  Don  Foley 
is  vice  president  of  Pattern  Analysis  &  Recogni- 
tion Corp.,  Rome,  N.Y. . .  .  John  Gilbert,  who 
received  his  law  degree  from  Western  New 
England  College,  has  passed  the  Connecticut  bar 
exam.  He  specializes  in  contract  and  corporate 
law.  Presently  he  is  still  employed  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney. . . .  Donald  McCarthy  is  a  social  worker 
for  the  city  of  Philadelphia. 

Hugh  McMenamy  serves  as  senior  project 
engineer  at  Exxon  Research  &  Engineering  Co.  in 
Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  . .  Donald  Mugnai  is  now  a 
design  engineer  in  the  Electronics  Branch  at  the 
Naval  Surface  Weapons  Center  in  Silver  Spring, 
Md.  He  is  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
the  District  of  Columbia,  and  recently  received 

his  license  in  electrical  engineering Lawrence 

Pihl  holds  the  post  of  western  regional  manager 
for  Omni  Spectra,  Inc.,  Merrimack,  N.H. . .   John 
Sakala,  MNS  has  been  named  the  new  principal 
at  Watertown  (Mass.)  High  School.  .  .  .  Robert 
Shaw  owns  Spoon  &  Fork  Garage  in  Worcester 
....  Andrew  Warner,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  consultant 
for  Southern  Consulting  Group,  Clearwater, 
Florida. 


1967 


Married:  Allen  J.  Ikalainen  and  Miss  Barbara  J. 
Henwood  at  Christmas  Cove,  Maine  on  Sep- 
tember 4, 1 976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Colby 
College.  Both  she  and  her  husband  are 
employed  by  the  Environmental  Protection 
Agency,  Region  I,  Boston. 

Michael  Barr  has  been  named  marketing 
manager  for  the  Metals  Recovery  Division  at 
M&T  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Rahway,  N.J.  With  the 
firm  since  1972,  he  has  served  as  plant  manager 
and  plant  engineer.  He  has  an  MS  degree  in 
industrial  management  from  Newark  College  of 
Engineering. .  .  .  Joseph  Goulart  is  a  customer 
liaison  engineer  at  Simpson  Industries  in  Litch- 
field, Mich.  . .  .  Robert  Hellen,  who  earned  his 
Ph.D.  in  chemical  engineering  from  Cornell  Uni- 
versity, is  currently  employed  by  3M  Company, 
St.  Paul,  Minn. . .  .Dr.  Kenneth  Rex  is  an  assistant 
professor  of  physics  at  St.  Bonaventure  Univer- 
sity. . . .  John  Soulliere  was  recently  promoted  to 
regional  sales  manager  at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.) 
Company.  He  had  been  district  sales  manager 
for  the  power  systems  division,  and  a  field  and 
home  sales  engineer.  He  began  work  at  the 
company  m  1969. 


1968 

Married:  Roger  J.  Pikorand  Miss  Marilyn  R. 
Moore  on  October  2 ,  1 976  in  West  H artf ord , 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Pikor,  a  research  assistant  in 
diabetes  at  the  University  of  Connecticut  Health 
Center,  graduated  from  Drew  University,  Madi- 
son, N.J.  Her  husband  is  with  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  Division  of  United  Technologies. 

Norman  Brunell  is  a  division  patent  counsel 
for  Litton  Industries,  Inc.,  Beverly  Hills,  Calif.  .  . . 
Stephen  Davis  works  for  the  aircraft  engine 
group  at  GE  in  Lynn,  Mass. .  .  .  BertGunteris 
with  the  mathematics  department  at  Beloit 
(Wis.)  College. . . .  Presently  Joseph  Hilyard  is  a 
full-time  graduate  student  in  journalism  at  the 
University  of  Wisconsin  in  Madison.  .  .  .  John 
Lunney,  who  now  resides  in  Fredericksburg,  Va. , 
is  a  senior  field  service  engineer  for  GE  Ordance 
Systems  of  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Dr.  Joseph  Owens  serves  as  a  research  as- 
sociate in  the  physics  department  at  Florida  State 
University  in  Tallahassee. . . .  Ronald  Rehkamp 
has  been  promoted  to  actuarial  associate  at  State 
Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.  of  America,  Worces- 
ter. He  joined  the  firm's  actuarial  organization  in 
1 974.  Recently  he  became  an  associate  of  the 

Society  of  Actuaries Douglas  Riley  holds  the 

post  of  construction  superintendent  at  Harvey 
Construction  Co.,  Manchester,  N.H.  .  .  .  Richard 
Snay  is  a  geodesist  for  the  Department  of  Com- 
merce, National  Oceanic  &  Atmospheric  Ad- 
ministration, Rockville,  Md. . . .  Leo  Sprecheris 
the  senior  financial  analyst  at  Mellon  National 

Corp.  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa Malcolm  Wittenberg 

presently  practices  law  with  Limbach ,  Limbach  & 
Sutton  in  San  Francisco. 


1969 

Married:  Jon  C.  Anderson  and  Judith  Weaver  on 
July  1 0, 1 976  in  Danvers,  Massachusetts.  Ander- 
son, who  served  in  the  U.S.  Army  for  three  years, 
is  presently  employed  as  a  construction  man- 
ager. .  . .  Robert  L.  Simonds  to  Miss  Ann  S. 
Bainbridge  in  Chestnut  Hill,  Massachusetts  on 
October  9,  1976.  Mrs.  Simonds,  an  alumna  of 
Colby  Junior  College  and  Lake  Forest  College,  is 
a  member  of  the  Vincent  Club  and  is  with  the 
Museum  of  Fine  Arts,  Boston.  The  groom  is 
employed  by  United  Engineers  and  Construc- 
tors. 

Joel  Cehn,  a  radiological  engineer  at  Boston 
Edison  Co.,  recently  presented  a  slide  and  lecture 
program  on  nuclear  power  at  the  Public  Affairs 
Action  Committee  meeting  held  in  Easton,  Mass. 
Cehn  is  responsible  for  monitoring  radioactivity 
in  the  environment  at  Pilgrim  Nuclear  Power 
Station,  Plymouth. . . .  Joel  Greene  has  relocated 

his  law  offices  to  14  Harvard  St.  in  Worcester 

Dr.  Roy  Johnson,  Jr.  is  assistant  professor  in  the 
civil  engineering  department  at  Auburn  (Ala.) 
University.  .  . .  After  four  years  of  teaching  at 
Holy  Name  High  School,  Worcester,  Joel 
O'Rourke  is  now  teaching  math  at  Martha's 
Vineyard  Regional  High  School.  He  also  has 
served  as  a  computer  programmer  and  a 
programmer/analyst  at  the  American  Optical 
Corporation  in  Southbridge.  .  .  .  Tom  Starr 
(formerly  Gwazdauskas)  is  now  working  for 
CTI-Nuclear  in  Waltham,  Mass.  He  writes  that 
he  and  Richard  Abrams,  70  form  the  process 
engineering  group  at  the  firm.  Tom,  his  wife,  and 
children,  Betsy,  1 ,  and  Michael,  4,  reside  in 
Framingham.  .  .  .  Richard  Warren  is  a  self- 
employed  consultant  in  Wilton,  Conn. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  27 


1970 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Hakkinen  a 
daughter,  Erika  Lynn,  on  August  26,  1976. 

Gerry  Blodgett  serves  as  technical  adviser  for 
the  U.S.  Court  of  Customs  and  Patent  Appeals  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  received  his  Juris  Doctor 
from  Suffolk  University  and  is  presently  enrolled 
in  an  L.L.M.  program  in  patent,  trademark,  and 
copywright  law  at  George  Washington  Univer- 
sity. .  .    John  Cattel  owns  and  operates  Rumble 
Seat,  a  singalong  pub  at  1 12  Green  St.  in  Wor- 
cester. Rumble  Seat  offers  good  hot  dogs,  cold 
beer,  and  live  music.  Formerly,  Cattel  had 
worked  three  years  for  Riley  Stoker  Co.  . . . 
Christopher  Cowles  holds  the  post  of  systems 
consultant  for  Christian  Rovsing  of  Herlev, 
Denmark.  He  is  consulting  for  the  Civil  Service 
Commission  of  Kuwait  designing  a  civil  registra- 
tion system  and  government  personnel  informa- 
tion system.  His  wife  Patricia  works  on  the  same 
project.  .  .  .  William  Ferranti  is  a  loss  prevention 
engineer  at  Fred  S.  James  &  Co.,  Boston. 

Garrett  Graham  works  as  general  supervisor 
for  Polaroid  in  Waltham,  Mass. . . .  John  Kaferle, 
Jr.  serves  as  a  senior  process  engineer  at  Craw- 
ford &  Russell,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.        P.  B. 
Koradia,  a  product  research  group  leader  in  the 
chemical  process  products  division  at  Norton 
Co  ,  was  a  co-author  of  "Molecular  Sieves  for 
SO2  Removal"  which  appeared  in  the  August 
issue  of  CEP-Chemical  Engineering  Progress. . . . 
The  New  England  Electric  System  employs  Ken- 
neth Oberg  as  a  senior  budget  analyst  in 
Westboro,  Mass.  .  .    Michael  Sullivan  is  man- 
ager of  recovery  unit  operations  at  Aztec  En- 
gineering in  Louisville,  Ky. . . .  Paul  Wilson  works 
for  Arwood  Corp.  in  Tilton,  N.H.  .  .  .  Alan 
Zabarsky  holds  the  position  of  manager  of  qual- 
ity assurance  at  Motorola  Corp.,  Schaumberg, 
Illinois. 


1971 


Married:  P.  James  Allfrey  III  and  Miss  Virginia 
M.  White  of  Lexington,  Massachusetts  on  Au- 
gust 14,  1976  Mrs.  Allfrey,  who  graduated  from 
Simmons  College,  is  a  registered  nurse  on  the 
staff  of  Addison  Gilbert  Hospital  in  Gloucester. 
Her  husband  is  with  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance 
Myles  H.  Kleper  and  Miss  Judith  E.  Izen  in 
West  Newton,  Massachusetts  on  August  29, 
1976  The  bride  graduated  from  Boston  Univer- 
sity and  is  a  research  analyst  on  the  psychiatric 
service  staff  at  Mass  General  Hospital.  The 
groom  has  served  in  the  Peace  Corps  and  is 
presently  a  project  engineer  with  the  Walden 
division  of  Abcor,  Inc.  Wilmington,  Mass.  He  is 
also  studying  for  his  MBA  at  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity 

Married  John  R.  Oscarson  and  Miss  Arlene  L 
Slif kin  in  New  London,  Connecticut  on  August  8, 
1976  Mrs  Oscarson,  who  graduated  from 
Mitchell  College  and  Quinmpiac  College,  is  a 
programmer  at  Mystech  Associates,  Inc.  in  Mys- 
tic. Conn  Her  husband  is  a  laboratory  technician 
at  Pfizer  in  Groton         David  A.  True  and  Miss 
Mary  Lee  Bannister  of  Point  Pleasant,  New 
Jersey  recently  The  bride  graduated  from  Swar- 
thmore  and  earned  a  master's  in  marine  biology 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island  She  is 
presently  employed  at  Woods  Hole  Oceano- 
graphy Institute  Dave  continues  with  New  Eng- 
'ower  Co 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  C.  Moore  III  a  son 
Bradley  on  June  6,  1 976.  Moore,  now  a  field 
engineer  for  Westinghouse  in  Minneapolis, 
Minn.,  recently  spent  a  year  in  Spain  working  on 
new  power  plants. 

Joseph  Bellino  is  a  design  engineer  for  GE  in 
Gainsville,  Fla. .  .  .  Ellen  Brueck  teaches 
mathematics  at  the  Lovett  School  in  Atlanta,  Ga. 
. .  .  Continuing  with  Riley  Stoker,  Robert  Childs 
is  now  a  sales  engineer  for  the  firm  in  Portland, 
Oregon.  . .  .  John  Giordano  serves  as  a  planning 
officer  at  Old  Stone  Bank  in  Providence,  R.I. . . . 
Michael  Grady  has  joined  Data  Systems  Division 
of  ITT  Business  Systems  LTD,  London,  England. 
He  holds  the  post  of  senior  software  systems 
engineer.  TheGradysand  their  four- year-old 
son,  Peter  will  remain  in  England  for  threeyears. 

John  Gyory  is  presently  enrolled  at  the  Univer- 
sity Simon  Bolivar,  Caracas,  Venezuela,  where 
he  is  in  his  last  year  of  architectural  studies.  . .  . 
Elaine  Kowalewski  has  been  appointed  assistant 
professor  of  mathematics  and  statistics  at 
Nichols  College,  Dudley,  Mass.  She  has  also 
been  enrolled  in  the  Ph.D.  program  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  Richard  Lisayskas  is 
an  R&D  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Attle- 
boro,  Mass.  This  year  he  received  his  master's 
degree  from  MIT.  .  .  .  Having  received  his  Ph.D. 
in  physics  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin  in 
Madison,  Toh-Ming  Lu  has  returned  to 
Maylaysia. 

Gary  Mason,  plant  manager  at  Stevens  Linen 
Associates,  has  been  named  general  chairman 
for  the  1 976  United  Way  campaign  of  Webster 
and  Dudley  (Mass.),  Inc.  Last  year  he  served  as 
first  vice  president  and  as  a  member  of  the 
budget  committee.  .  .  .  Tom  Mirarchi  is  a 
manufacturing  quality  engineer  at  American 
Optica!  in  Brattleboro,  Vt.  .  .  .  Robert  Payne 
holds  the  post  of  research  associate  at  Charles  H. 
Kline  &  Co.,  Fairfield,  N.J. .  . .  Donald  Peterson 
has  joined  Northern  Telecom,  Inc.  as  manager  of 
analysis,  credit  and  insurance.  He  will  be  respon- 
sible for  defining  and  solving  managerial  prob- 
lems, especially  in  the  areas  of  finance,  control, 
long  range  planning  and  internal  operations. 
Before  joining  the  Nashville-based  firm,  he  was 
senior  investment  analyst  for  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Company  of  America. 

John  Petrillo  has  received  his  Juris  Doctor 
degree  from  Brooklyn  Law  School.  He  is 
employed  by  the  American  Telephone  &  Tele- 
graph Company,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Abbas 
Salim  is  currently  a  senior  engineer  for  General 
Dynamics'  Electronics  Division  in  Orlando,  Fla.  In 
September  he  published  a  paper  in  the  records  of 
the  1 1th  Intersociety  Energy  Conversion  En- 
gineering Conference.  .  .  .  Anthony  Schepis 
serves  as  an  application  engineer  in  the  cen- 
trifugal separator  department  at  De  Laval 
Separator  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Missouri.    .  .  Robert 
Vayo,  SIM  has  been  named  plant  manager  of 
Reed  and  Prince's  new  packaging  and  plating 
plant  in  Jaffrey,  N.H.  Since  joining  the  firm  in 
1 965,  he  has  served  as  an  industrial  engineer  and 
plant  manager. 


J 


1972 

Married:  Robert  A.  Grant  and  Miss  Jill  Holbro 
in  Columbia,  Connecticut  on  September  25, 
1976.  Mrs.  Grant  graduated  from  Russell  Sage 
College  and  is  manager  of  the  Weathervane  in 
Burlington,  Mass.  Her  husband  is  with  Salath 
and  Pecci,  consulting  engineers,  Boston.  . . . 
Bruce  M.  Szypot  and  Miss  Judith  A.  Pond  in 
Rochester,  New  York  on  April  24,  1976.  Bill 
Delphos,  '74  and  Greg  Stamper,  73  were 
ushers.  Mrs.  Szypot  graduated  from  Central  Cit 
Business  Institute,  Syracuse,  and  is  a  secretary  fc 
Eastman  Kodak.  Her  husband  continues  at 
Kodak  where  he  is  an  industrial  engineer. 

Charles  Chase  is  with  Consumer's  Water  Cc 
in  Portland,  Me.  ...  Dr.  James  Colangelo  serv( 
as  a  medical  intern  at  Hartford  (Conn.)  Hospita 
He  received  his  MDfrom  St.  Louis  University  thi 

year Raymond  Del  Colle,  MNS  has  acceptei 

a  position  as  a  teacher  of  physics  and  math  at  th' 
Whitman-Hanson  Regional  High  School  in 
Whitman,  Mass.  . . .  James  DeVries,  MNS,  has 
been  appointed  associate  professor  of 
mathematics  and  physical  science  at  Barringtor 
(R.I.)  College.  He  has  also  been  doing  graduate 
work  at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

Alan  Dion  recently  received  his  master's  de- 
gree in  civil-environmental  engineering  from  th> 
University  of  Rhode  Island.  .  .  .  John  Ferraro  ha 
been  promoted  to  the  position  of  engineer  in  th< 
transmission  and  substation  engineering  de- 
partment at  Northeast  Utilities  in  Berlin,  Mass. 
He  began  as  an  assistant  engineer  in  the  protec 
five  relaying  department  in  1972  and  was 
named  associate  engineer  in  1974.  . .  .  David 
Hayhurst,  who  received  his  Ph.D.  in  chemical 
engineering  from  WPI  in  June,  is  now  an  assis- 
tant professor  in  the  Chemical  Engineering  De- 
partment at  Cleveland  State  University  in  Ohio 

William  Klein,  Jr.  is  assistant  plant  manager 

in  the  Boxmakers  Division  at  Rexham  Corp.  in 
Pinetops,  N.C. . .  .  James  Lacy  is  a  senior 
engineer  for  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Marlboro 
Mass. 

Randall  Partridge,  a  research  engineer  at 
Mobil  R/D  Corp.,  Paulsboro,  N.J.,  is  on  a  three- 
year  leave  of  absence  while  studying  for  his 
Ph.D.  at  the  University  of  Delaware.  He  also 
does  research  at  Children's  Hospital  of  Philadel- 
phia. .  .  .  Thomas  Staehr  serves  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Oak  Ridge,  Tenn 
....  Hubert  Thompson  works  as  a  technical 
supervisor  for  duPont  in  Buffalo,  N.Y. .  . . 
William  Way  is  a  fire  protection  engineer  at 
Kemper  Insurance  Co.,  North  Quincy,  Mass. . . 
Ira  Weissman  is  an  associate  engineer  for  Publii 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  in  Newark,  N.J. 


1973 

Married:  Robert  E.  Baron  to  Miss  Carolyn  Pul-    '< 
virenti  in  Longmeadow,  Massachusetts  on  July  i 
18,  1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Westfield 
State  College  and  received  her  master's  degree 
from  Lesley  College,  Cambridge.  She  is  a  specific 
learning  disability  teacher  in  the  Belmont  school 
system.  Her  husband  recently  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  in  chemical  engineering  from  MIT. 
He  is  associated  with  MIT's  Energy  Laboratory. 
Recently  his  article,  "Synthetic  Fuels:  Prices, 
Prospects,  and  Prior  Art"  appeared  in  American 
Scientist.  .  .  .  Michael  S.  Gipps  and  Miss  Mar-    I 
garet  A.  Eldridge  in  Walnut  Creek,  California  oni 
July  17,  1976.  Mrs.  Gipps  has  a  BS  from  the 
University  of  Montana.  Both  she  and  the  groom 
are  chemical  engineers  at  Dow  Chemical  in 
Pittsburg,  Calif. 


28    December  19/',   WPI  Journal 


Married:  Michael  J.  Kowaleski  and  Miss  Sha- 
i  n  A.  Leonardi  in  Worcester  on  July  18, 1976. 
I  le  bride,  a  home  economics  teacher  in  Brain- 
i  ee,  graduated  from  Framingham  State  College. 
J  le  groom  is  a  field  service  manager  in  the 
imputerized  building  automation  systems  de- 
irtment  at  Johnson  Controls,  Inc.,  Woburn, 

ass Michael  D.  Peterson  and  Miss  Carolyn 

.Barnard,  74  in  Worcester  on  August21.  Mrs. 
.  ?terson,  an  accounting  supervisor  at 
,  echanics  National  Bank,  is  also  a  student  in  the 

ening  division  at  Clark  University.  Her  hus- 
;  ind  is  a  candidate  for  his  master's  degree  at 
:  ina  Maria  College  and  a  sales  coordinator  at 
iltec  Corp.,  West  Boylston,  Mass.  . . .  Wayne 
Pitts  to  Miss  Shelley  Wright  of  Scotia,  New 
>rk  on  October  18,1 975.  Mrs.  Pitts  is  a  mag 
rd  typist  at  Ford  Motor  Company.  She  is  a 
aduate  of  Becker  and  was  formerly  with  the 

■  PI  public  relations  office.  Her  husband  is  an 
vironmentalistat  Vollmer  Associates  in  Louis- 
le,  Ky. 

Born:  to  Stephen  H.  Goodwin  and  Deborah 
plante  Goodwin  a  daughter  Tracey  on  August 
.  i,  1976.  Now  on  maternity  leave,  Mrs.  Good- 
n  was  a  scientific  computer  programmer  in  the 
ge  steam  turbine  division  at  GE  in  Schenec- 
jy,  N.Y.  Recently  her  husband  was  named  the 

■  ition's  standard  engineer  for  Niagara  Mohawk 
Syracuse —  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  George  Gosselin 
sir  first  child,  Bryan  Marshall,  on  September 
,1976. 

Presently  Ray  Cherenzia  is  a  civil  engineer  at 
aboard  Engineering  in  Niantic,  Conn. .  .  . 
mes  Di  Milia  serves  as  an  assembly-process    . 

gineerat  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn,  Mich 

miel  Eide  now  holds  the  post  of  plant  manager 
Hammond  Plastics  in  Owensboro,  Ky.  .  .  . 

:  omas  Ferguson,  who  was  awarded  a  master 
science  degree  in  biomedical  engineering 

:  >m  Iowa  State  University  in  August,  is  currently 
ing  more  graduate  work  at  the  university. 
Dr.  John  Goulet  has  been  appointed  an  assis- 

■  it  professor  of  mathematics  at  Colby  College, 
aterville,  Me.  He  holds  MS  and  Ph.D.  degrees 
m  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  While  at  RPI  he  received  the 
Iph  Huston  Award  as  the  outstanding 
iduate  student  instructor  of  mathematics. 
:viously  he  was  with  Youngblood  Laminates 

.  Roger  James  is  a  manager  for  F.  W. 
Dolworth  Co.  in  Middletown,  R.I. .  .  .  William 
iwdsley  was  recently  promoted  to  senior  ac- 
uial  associate  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance 
I  i.  of  America  in  Worcester.  He  has  been  with 
|  ;  company  si  nee  1973.. ..  Frank Kania,  afield 
st  engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster,  is  presently 
>rking  on  the  Clinch  River  Breeder  Reactor 
int  Project  in  Oak  Ridge,  Tenn.  He,  his  wife, 
.'nise,  and  son  Michael  currently  reside  in 
loxville.  .  .  .  Mark  Oleson  is  a  construction 
gineer  for  Stone  &  Webster  and  is  located  in 
coming,  N.Y. 

David  Pouliot  works  as  an  electronics  en- 
leer  at  Naval  Surface  Weapons  Center, 
ihlgren,  Va.  .  .  .  Stuart  Roth,  who  is  with  the 
•  S.  Army,  is  currently  a  platoon  leader  for  the 
nd  Airborne  in  Fort  Bragg,  N.C.  .  .  .  Gary 
Iden,  a  research  engineer  for  GE  in  Schenec- 
dy,  N.Y,  is  also  enrolled  in  the  materials 

lencePh.D.  program  at  RPI Stu  Wallack 

s  accepted  a  sales  engineering  job  with  the 
irrington  (Conn.)  Company. .  .  .  Continuing 
th  the  Central  Vermont  Public  Service  Corp., 
wid  Watts  is  now  assistant  transmission  en- 
leer  in  Rutland. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,   Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


jamesbury 

m    m  manufacturers  of  *" 

^-^  Double-Seal  ®  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere®  Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


•  70  presses,  capacities  of  10  to  545  tons. 
•  Quality  control  conforms  to  Mil.  Spec. 
Mil.-  Q  -  9858A. 
•  Controlled  atmosphere 

annealing  furnace. 
•   Complete  engineering 
and  tool  room  depart- 
ments. 

./  \f  Send  for  facilities  brochure 

i^^y      J  /  or  call  (617)366-4472. 

aristrom 

PRESSED  METAL  CO.,  INC/55  FISHER  ST.,  WESTB0R0,  MA  01581 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976/29 


1974 


Married  Donald  W.  Campbell  and  Miss  Diane 
Botelho  on  August  28,  1976  in  Newport,  Rhode 
Island.  Mrs.  Campbell  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  College.  The  bndegroom  is  an  analytical 
chemist  at  Liberty  Mutual  Research  Center  in 
Hopkinton,  Mass.        C.  Wayne  Chistolini  and 
Miss  Kathleen  Blake  on  July  17,  1976  in  East 
Longmeadow,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Fitchburg  State  College.  The 
groom  is  doing  graduate  work  at  RPI  and  is 
division  supervisor  of  construction  and  mainte- 
nance for  Texaco  Oil  Corp.,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  . 
William  Frazier  and  Miss  Jean  D'lsidoro  in  Hollis- 
ton,  Massachusetts  on  October  2,  1976.  Mrs. 
Frazier,  a  substitute  teacher,  graduated  from 
Westfield  State  College.  Her  husband  is  with 
Arthur  D.  Little  Co..  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  . 
Robert  E.  Lindberg,  Jr.  and  Miss  Nancy  K.  Mon- 
talbine  in  Franklin  Square,  New  York  on  June  12, 
1976  Gerald  Buzanoski  and  Michael  Kosmo 
were  ushers.  The  bride  has  a  BA  in  special 
education  from  Anna  Maria  College.  The  groom 
is  a  physicist  at  the  Naval  Research  Laboratory  in 
Washington,  DC. 

Married:  Victor  Melechow  to  Miss  Lucia  K. 
Polanik  in  Worcester  on  July  18,  1976.  Mrs. 
Melechow  graduated  from  Lowell  University 
and  is  a  music  teacher.  Her  husband  teaches 
science  in  the  Marlboro  (Mass.)  public  school 
system        Carry  E.  Nunes  and  Miss  Deborah  J. 
Ring  on  October  23,1 976  in  Schenectady,  New 
York  The  bride  is  an  alumna  of  Becker  and  was 
employed  by  the  Boston  Store  in  Latham.  The 
groom  is  with  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  in 
Astoria,  N.Y        Thomas  J.  Stone  to  Miss  Bonnie 
J  Carlson  in  Southington,  Connecticut  on  Au- 
gust 14,  1976  The  bride,  an  elementary  teacher 
in  the  Southington  school  system,  graduated 
from  Central  Connecticut  State  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  field  service  engineer  with  Excel- 
lon  Automation         Stephen  J.  Yankum,  Jr.  and 
Miss  BrendaC.  Morse  on  July  17,  1976  in  North 
Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Yankum 
graduated  from  Katharine  Cibbs  School  and  is  a 
secretary  at  Airtek  Corp  ,  Newton.  Her  husband 
is  an  assistant  actuarial  consultant  for  the  Wyatt 
Co  ,  Wellesley. 

David  A.  Certh  serves  as  a  staff  accountant  at 
Arthur  Andersen  &  Co  in  Boston.  He  recently 
received  his  MBA  from  Amos  Tuck  School  at 
Dartmouth  College        Robert  Hodgson  is 
pursuing  an  MBA  at  Tuck  School         Currently 
David  Lapre  holds  the  post  of  department  man- 
ager at  P&C  Paper  Products  in  Mehoopany,  Pa. 
Michael  Lewandowski  MNS  has  received  his 
master  of  education  degree  with  concentration 
in  school  administration  from  Bridgewater  State 
College  An  A  student,  he  was  commended  for 
receiving  one  of  the  highest  scores  ever  given  on 
a  comprehensive  examination  A  member  of  the 
science  department  at  Joseph  Case  High  School, 
Swansea.  Mass  ,  Lewandowski  serves  as  vice 
president  of  the  Mass  Region  III  science  fair 
committee  and  is  also  a  member  of  the  State 
Science  Fair  executive  board 

Russell  Nabensa  process  engineer  for  Procter 
&  Gamble  on  temporary  assignment  at  a  new 
manufacturing  facility  in  Greenville,  N  C 
Lt  David  Nickless,  U  S  Army,  serves  as  com- 
mand- 'thOrd  Det  (EOD)  at  Corpus 
Chr  "Mex"  Sanchez,  who  has 

ed  his  MS  in  biochemical  engineering  from 
Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  and  S  U  ,  is  nn 
,  with  Procter  &  Gamble's  product  de- 


velopment department  in  Mexico.  .  .  .  Richard 
Takanen  has  graduated  from  GE's  two-year 
manufacturing  program  and  is  now  foreman  of 
product  and  process  appraisal  forGE  in  Pittsfield, 
Mass. 

Lee  Turner  serves  as  senior  financial  analyst  at 
Baxter Traverol  Labs,  Inc.  in  Deerfield,  III.  He 
recently  received  his  MBA  from  Tuck  School  at 
Dartmouth.  .  .  .  Craig  Tyler  works  as  afield 
service  engineer  for  Veeder  Root  Co.  in  Des 
Plaines,  III.  .  .  .  Andrew  Wemple  has  been 
promoted  to  actuarial  associate  in  the  actuarial 
organization  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co. 
of  America. .    .  Christopher  Williams  is  a  field 
service  representative  at  Digital  Equipment  Co. 
in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Continuing  with  GE, 
Stephen  Williams  is  now  a  quality  control  en- 
gineer for  the  company  in  Ft.  Wayne,  Ind.  .  .  . 
Gordon  Woodfall  is  production-inventory  con- 
trol supervisor  for  Texas  Instruments  in  Attle- 
boro, Mass. 

Douglas  Briggs  serves  as  a  production  control 
supervisor  at  GE  in  Wilmington,  Mass.  Also,  he  is 
studying  for  his  MBA  at  Northeastern  University. 
. . .  Also  studying  for  his  MBA  is  Erik  Brodin,  who 
is  at  Western  New  England  College,  Springfield, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Thomas  Burns  works  for  GE  s 
ordnance  systems  division  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. . . . 
Steve  Dacri,  who  received  an  award  from  the 
National  Safety  Council  for  his  duties  as 
toastmaster  at  the  Annual  Safety  Awards  ban- 
quet held  in  Worcester  recently,  is  presently 
working  on  a  series  of  "magical"  TV  public 
service  announcements  highlighting  child  and 
automotive  safety  for  the  Council.  In  September 
he  starred  in  a  TV  special  which  he  wrote  and 
produced  on  Worcester's  Channel  27.  In  Oc- 
tober he  was  a  featured  entertainer  at  the  Opti- 
cal Wholesalers  of  America  Trade  Show  in  the 
MGM  Grand  Hotel  in  Las  Vegas,  following  a 
performance  for  the  Screen  Printing  Association 
in  New  Orleans. 


1975 


Married:  Christopher  E.  Danker  and  Miss 
Melody  A.  King  on  August  21,1 976  in  Water- 
town,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Danker  graduated 
from  Anna  Maria  and  currently  attends  Madison 
College.  The  bridegroom  is  a  process  engineer  at 
Thiokol  Fibers  in  Waynesboro,  Va.  .  .  .  William 
A.  Demers  to  Miss  Judith  E.  Marraty  on  August 
28,  1976  in  Derry  Village,  New  Hampshire  The 
bride  graduated  from  Pinkerton  Academy  and  is 
a  teller  at  Derry  Bank  and  Trust  Co.       Wilson  G. 
Dobson  and  Miss  Lynn  LePoer  in  Petersham, 
Massachusetts  on  October  23,  1976.  Mrs.  Dob- 
son  graduated  from  Hahnemann  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing,  Worcester.  She  is  a  registered 
nurse  at  the  hospital.  The  groom  is  a  graduate 
assistant  in  the  material  engineering  department 
at  WPI         Henry  Fitzgerald  and  Miss  Jean  M. 
Tyer  on  August  28,  1976  in  Worcester.  Mrs 
Fitzgerald  is  a  senior  at  Worcester  State  College 
and  is  a  part-time  employee  of  the  Worcester 
Boys'  Club.  Her  husband  works  for  Gillette  Co.  in 
South  Boston 


Married:  John  J.  Fitzgibbons,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Michelle  A.  Plantein  North  Attleboro,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  September  11,1 976  The  bride,  al* 
graduate  of  Katharine  Gibbs,  is  a  secretary  at 
Regis  Paper  Co.  Her  husband  is  an  estimator  at 
H.  Carr  &  Sons.  .  .    Ronald  E.  Gagnon  and  Miss 
Ellen  M.  Connor  on  October  2,  1976  in  West 
Boylston,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Gagnon 
graduated  from  West  Boylston  Junior-Senior 
High  School  and  is  a  secretary  at  Norton  Co.  The 
groom,  manager  of  purchasing  and  traffic  at 
Kinefac  Corp.,  is  also  studying  at  Quinsigamonc 
Community  College.  .  .  .  John  R.  Mason  ill  to    j 
Miss  Paula  Ann  Yurewicz  on  July  25,  1976  in 
Paxton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Mason  is  a 
graduate  of  Anna  Maria  College.  She  is  currently 
completing  an  internship  in  medical  technology 
at  Worcester  City  Hospital.  The  groom  is  a 
candidate  for  a  master's  degree  in  nuclear  en- 
gineering at  WPI. 

Married:  Frank  W.  Moitoza  to  Miss  Linda  L.  ; 
Halliday  in  Portsmouth,  Rhode  Island  on  Sep- 
tember 25,  1976.  The  bride,  who  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island,  is  an  in- 
structor at  the  YMCA  and  a  substitute  teacher  in 
the  Newport  school  system.  Her  husband  is  with 
the  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center. . .    Peter 
F.  Pombo  and  Miss  Kristina  M.  Jamieson  on 
August  14, 1976  in  Paxton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs 
Pombo  graduated  from  Anna  Maria  and  teaches 
special-needs  children  at  Auburn  Junior  High 
School.  The  bridegroom  is  chief  engineer  at 
Syntest  Corp.  in  Marlboro.  .  .  .  Stephen  A. 
Werner  and  Miss  Kathleen  M.  Geran  on  June  19 
1 976  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Werner  attended  Quin 
sigamond  Community  College  and  was 
employed  at  Wayside  Nursing  Home.  The 
groom  is  a  nuclear  refueling  engineer  forGenera 
Dynamics,  Electric  Boat  Division,  Groton,  Conn 
...  Richard  J.  Newhouse  to  Miss  Barbara  A. 
Branau  in  Centereach,  Long  Island,  New  York  oi 
July  10, 1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Becker. 
Her  husband  is  employed  by  Raymond  Interna- 
tional, Inc.,  in  Africa. 

George  Breece  holds  the  post  of  vice  presiden 
at  Southern  Fluid  Controls  Corp.,  Ft.  Lauderdale 
Fla. .     Mark  Chevrier,  who  was  married  to  Paul. 
Laberge  in  September  1975,  is  now  project 
engineer  at  Monsanto  in  Bloomfield,  Conn.  . . . 
Robert  Martinaitis  is  currently  employed  by  the 
ground  systems  group  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  ill  l 
Fullerton,  Calif.  He  is  also  studying  for  his  MSEI 
at  U.S.C.  on  a  Hughes  Master's  Fellowship.  . . . 
Gregory  Miranda  works  for  the  Worcester 
Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology  in 
Shrewsbury,  Mass.  as  a  research  assistant.    . . 
Mark  Candello  has  joined  Troy  (N.H  )  Mills,  ln< 

Ray  Cibulskis  serves  as  applications  engineen 
at  the  Lee  Company  in  Westbrook,  Conn.  The 
firm  manufactures  engineered  hydraulic  com-  1 1 
ponents.  .  .  .  Presently  Mark  Koris  holds  a 
graduate assistantship  in  biomedical  engineerin 
at  Case  Western  Reserve. . .   Laurence  Michael 
is  a  systems  programmer  at  Whitlow  Compute 
Systems  in  Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J        John 
FitzPatrick  has  joined  Exxon  Research  and  En- 
gineering Co.  in  Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  James 
Roche  is  a  research  engineer  at  Gleason  Works 
Rochester,  N.Y 

Vance  Rowe  holds  the  post  of  project  en- 
gineer at  Pfizer  in  Adams,  Mass.        Steven 
Standaher  is  a  graduate  assistant  at  WPI        P. 
Toomey  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at  Spragu* 
Electric  in  Worcester.  .    .  John  Tropeano  is  a 
methods  and  standards  analyst  at  Sky  Chefs,   I 
Now  York  City         Scott  Wilson  is  a  test 

ineer  at  Thomas  G.  Faria  Corporation  In 
Uncasville,  Conn. 


30    December  19/'.    WPI  Journal 


976 


arried:  Bourdillon  P.  Apreala  to  Miss  Virginia 
Latimore  on  July  24,  1976  in  Boston.  The 
ide  attended  Radcliffe  College.  Her  husband  is 
student  at  Atlanta  University  Business  School 
. .  H.  Scott  Bicknell  and  Miss  Brenda  L.  Cowles 
centlyin  Enfield,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Bicknell 
aduated  from  Becker  Junior  College  and  is 
anagerof  the  Bay  State  Savings  Bank  in  Wor- 
■ster.  The  groom  serves  as  a  divisional  manager 
r  Bicknell,  Inc.,  in  Framingham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
ffrey  J.  Coderre  to  Miss  Debra  Pinet  on  April 
),  1976  in  Moosup,  Connecticut.  The  bride 
aduated  from  Plainfield  High  School.  The 
idegroom  is  with  the  Linde  Division  of  Union 
irbide.  .    .  Richard  A.  Escolas,  Jr.  and  Miss 
aureen  D.  Hardy  on  October  17,  1976  in 
orcester.  Mrs.  Escolas  graduated  from  Holy 
oss  and  is  assistant  manager  of  Windsor  But- 
n  Shop,  Worcester  Center.  Her  husband  is 
anufacturing  supervisor  at  Texas  Instruments 
Attleboro. 
Married:  George  J.  Hefferon  to  Miss  Marguer- 

L.  Dunn  in  Ridgefield,  Connecticut  on  August 
1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  State  Univer- 
y  College,  Genesco,  N.Y.  and  teaches  English 
John  Jay  High  School,  Katonah.  The  groom  is  a 
>ctoral  candidate  at  Columbia  University  .... 
ses  E.  Karoutas  and  Miss  Stephanie  A.  Tsolas 
Haverhill,  Massachusetts  on  August22, 1976. 
rs.  Karoutas  graduated  from  Salem  State  Col- 
ge.  Both  she  and  her  husband  are  attending 
aduate  school  in  Blacksburg,  Va.  .  .  .  Wayne 
andrus  and  Miss  Margaret  E.  Gaby  79  last 
ay  in  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  The  groom  is 
systems  analyst  at  Bay  State  Gas  Co.  .  .  . 
ichael  J.  Miller  to  Miss  Pamela  C.  Pearce  on 
ay  29,  1976  in  Groton,  Connecticut.  Mrs. 
iller  graduated  from  Fitch  Senior  High  School 
d  is  employed  at  the  Naval  Submarine  Medical 
•nter 

Married:  Kevin  A.  Osborne  and  Miss  Laurea 
.  Payette  on  August  28,  1976  in  Greenville, 
lode  Island.  The  bride  graduated  from  Rhode 
ind  Junior  College.  The  groom  works  as  a  field 
gineerfor  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  of  Philadel- 
ia. . .  .  Thomas  K.  Pelis  and  Miss  Joan  E.  Holly 

August  14,  1 976  in  Newark,  New  York.  Mrs. 
lis  is  a  graduate  of  Becker  Junior  College.  The 
idegroom  is  employed  by  O'Brien  and  Geer. 
.t.  Edward  J.  Perry  II  (USAF)  and  Miss  Mary  E. 
•rry  on  July  4,  1976  in  Southbridge,  Mas- 
chusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from  Endicott 
nior  College  and  is  with  the  Southbridge  Credit 
lion.  Her  husband  has  been  assigned  to 
arner-Robbins  AFB,  Georgia. .  . .  Miss  Mary  F. 
ilanikto  Reggie  N.  Sherman  on  October  2, 
>76  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Sher- 
an  is  a  mathematics  teacher  at  Shawsheen 
alley  Technical  High  School,  Billerica.  Herhus- 
md  graduated  from  Worcester  State  College 
id  is  presently  enrolled  in  the  master's  program 
psychology  and  guidance  at  Assumption  Col- 
ge.    .  .  Eugene  L.  Savoie  to  Miss  Candyce  A. 
iwyer  in  East  Chatham,  New  York  on  August 
X,  1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Chatham 
entral  School.  The  groom  is  with  GE  in  Auburn. 

Jeffrey  L.  Wilcox  and  Miss  Deborah  J.  Tessier 
i  August  21 ,  1976  in  Somerset,  Massachusetts. 
\rs.  Wilcox  graduated  from  Bristol  Community 
ollege  and  is  a  medical  laboratory  technician  at 
nion-Truesdale  Hospital.  The  bridegroom  at- 
nds  the  Graduate  School  of  Business  at  the 
niversity  of  Pittsburgh. 
urtis  Allshouse  is  with  the  heat  treatment 
?partment  at  Corning  Glass  Works,  Corning, 

Y.       Scott  Bamford,  a  graduate  student  at 
ie  University  of  Rhode  Island's  School  of  Ocean 


STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP.  MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION 
tRequired  < 


WjP.  I  Journal 


-10  Sept.  19J6 


Aug.  Sept.  Oct.  Dec,  Feb.  April 


l  -JU  Sep 
I  __'"""  $5.00 


LOCATION  OF    KNOWN   OFFICE    OF   PUBLICATION    (Sir.  ,1     Ct,      C. 

Alden  Memorial  Auditorium, JJorcester ^Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester.  Ha.   01609 


NAMES  ANO  COMPLETE  ADDRESSES  OF  PUBLISHER.  EDITOR.  AND  MANAGING  EDITOR 


Worcester  Polytec hn ie  Insti tute.  Wo r c es ter.  Ma.   0160? 


H.  Russell  Kay.  Worcester_Pol lyjechnic^  Inst  ,  ter.  Ma.   01609 

ANACING    EDITOR    f.\.,m.    and     \ddrttt) 


'.  OWNER    III  0 


Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 


«■         KNOWN  BONDHOLDERS.  MORTGAGEES.  ANO  OTHER  SECURITY  HOLOERS  OWNING  OR  HOLOING   I  PERCENT  OR  MORE  O 
TOTAL  AMOUNT  OF  BONDS    MORTGAGES  OR  OTHER  SECURITIES  tilth,*. 


ND  NATURE  OF  CIRCULATION 


4  ISum  of  10B1  and  10B2) 


4  ISum  ofC  and  D) 


.  (Sum  ofE.FI  and  2-thould  equal  nei 


I  certify  that  the  statements  made  by  me 
above  are  correct  and  complete 


AVERAGE  NO    COPIES  EACH 

ISSUE  DURING  PRECEDING 

12  MONTHS 


18  ,.000 
0 


ACTUAL  NO    COPIES  OF  SINGLE 

SSUE  PUBLISHED  NEAREST  TO 

FILING  DATE 


2,255 


2.  FOR  COMPLETION  BY  PUBLISHERS  MAILING  AT  THE  REGU 
39  U    S    C    3626  provides  in  pertinent  part       "No  person  who  wo. 


J  bV  39  U    S    C    3626 


e  lllei  annually  , 


Engineering,  has  received  a  research  fellowship 
grant  from  the  university  to  study  in  the  field  of 
nuclear  waste  disposal.  .  .  .  Kent  Baschwitz  is  a 
marketing  representative  at  Mobil  Oil  in 

Scarsdale,  N.Y Stephen  Borys,  Jr.  works  as  a 

construction  and  maintenance  engineer  for 
Exxon  Co.,  U.S.A.,  Pelham,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Tony 
Clawson  serves  as  an  associate  industrial  en- 

gineerfor  Inland  Steel  Co.,  East  Chicago,  Ind 

Mark  Coulson  has  been  employed  by  General 
Dynamics,  Electric  Boat  Division. 

Jay  Cruickshank  is  involved  with  safety  en- 
gineering at  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Co.,  West 
Springfield,  Mass. . . .  Joseph  D'Alesio  is  with  W. 
C.  Larsen  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  . .  .  John  Fairbanks 
has  been  employed  as  a  service  engineer  at 
Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.,  Cincinnati,  Ohio.  ...  It 
was  erroneously  reported  in  the  October  issue 
that  Mark  Hoey  was  employed  by  the  engineer- 
ing department  of  the  city  of  Worcester.  Actu- 
ally, he  was  named  acting  city  engineer  for  the 
city  of  Holyoke,  Mass.,  a  position  which  he  held 
until  the  end  of  October.  He  is  now  a  field 
engineer  for  Daniel  O'Connell's  Sons,  Inc.,  a 
construction  company  located  in  Holyoke.  . .  . 
Catherine  Hogsett  recently  accepted  a  position 
with  GE  in  the  company's  manufacturing  man- 
agement program.  .  .    Paul  Jacques  has  joined 

Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester,  N.Y Michael 

Koronkiewicz  works  for  Sikorsky  Aircraft.  .  .  . 
Carey  Lazerow  is  a  minicomputer  medical  sys- 
tems analyst  at  Norwalk  (Conn  )  Hospital.  .    . 


Richard  Lessard  is  a  programmer  at  First  Data 
Corp.,  Washington,  DC.  .  .  .  David  McCormick 
has  joined  Armco  Steel  Co.,  Middletown,  Ohio 
....  Kathleen  Morse  holds  the  post  of  software 
engineer  at  Digital  in  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  James 
Pinzino  is  a  marketing  representative  at  Bur- 
roughs Corporation,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Charles  Putnam  serves  as  a  design  engineer  for 
the  Ford  Motor  Co.  in  Dearborn,  Mich.  .  .  . 
Jonathan  Rourke  is  with  the  Defense  &  Elec- 
tronics Center,  Systems  Development  Division, 
at  Westinghouse  in  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .    William 
Ruoff  is  general  manager  of  R.  H.  White  Con- 
struction Co.,  Merrimack,  N.H. 

Ed  Sawicki  has  joined  Standard  Pressed  Steel 
Co.,  Jenkintown,  Pa.  in  the  sales  engineering 
program.  The  international  company  specializes 
in  the  manufacture  of  precision  fasteners.  Fol- 
lowing the  training  course,  Sawicki  will  assume 
marketing  responsibilities  for  the  firm's  Hallowell 
Division  in  Hatfield,  Pa.  .      James  Sieminski  is 
with  RCA/ASD  in  Burlington,  Mass.  .  .  .  John 
Smith  is  a  graduate  assistant  at  Roswell  Park 
Memorial  Institute  in  the  Grace  Cancer  Drug 
Center,  Buffalo,  N.Y     .  .  Kenneth  Stannard 
serves  as  an  R&D  chemical  engineer  at  Uni Royal 
Chemical  in  Naugatuck,  Conn.  .  .    Frank  Van- 
ecek  has  been  named  as  an  instructor  in  compu- 
ter science  at  Norwich  University,  North  field,  Vt. 
.   Joseph  Yu  is  a  project  engineer  at  Mobil  Oil  in 
Paulsboro,  N.J 


WPI  Journal/  December  1976/31 


Raymond  A.  Haskell,  07  of  Sturbndge,  Mas- 
sachusetts died  on  February  18.  1976. 

He  was  born  on  August  30.  1884  in  Hope 
Valley.  Rhode  Island.  Following  graduation  as  an 
electrical  engineer,  he  was  with  the  Long  Lines 
Department  of  the  American  Telephone  &  Tele- 
graph Co.  from  1909  to  1949,  when  he  retired. 

Donald  H.  Mace,  '07  of  Sarasota.  Florida,  a 
retired  patent  attorney,  passed  away  on  Sep- 
tember 4,  1976. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI,  he  studied 
law  at  National  LawSchool  in  Washington,  D.C.. 
where  he  earned  his  law  degree.  During  his 
career  he  was  with  General  Electric;  Westin- 
ghouse;  VanEveren,  Fish  &  Hildreth:  Texas  Co.; 
Gasoline  Products  Co.;  and  Gifford,  Scull  & 
Burgess,  New  York  City.  He  belonged  to  ATO 
and  Sigma  Xi  and  had  served  as  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter  of  the  Alu  mni 
Association. 

Richmond  W.  Smith,  '08,  a  retired  executive  for 
Bird  Machine  Co  .  passed  away  at  his  home  in 
Walpole,  Massachusetts  on  August  24, 1976. 
He  was  90  years  old 

He  was  born  on  March  10.  1886  in  Princeton, 
Mass  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
in  1908  After  graduation  he  was  with  Hol- 
lingsworth  Vose  Co.  and  Kendall  Co.  He  retired 
in  1 953  after  30  years  as  a  sales  executive  for 
Bird  Machine  Co  ,  Walpole 

Mr  Smith  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  the 
Masons  He  received  his  MSME  from  WPI  in 
1910 

Charles  A.  Bassett.  '1 1  of  Naples,  Florida  died  on 
July  22.  1976 

A  native  of  Taunton.  Mass  .  he  was  born  on 
August  31.  1887  He  studied  at  WPI  and  for 
many  years  was  a  self-employed  fuel  oil  broker 


Allen  H.  Gridley,  '13  died  at  his  home  in  New 
Rochelle,  New  York  on  September  2,  1976 
following  a  civil  engineering  career  which  span- 
ned 62  years. 

He  was  born  on  November  27,  1890  in 
Springfield.  Massachusetts.  In  1913  he  received 
his  BSCE  from  WPI ,  later  doing  graduate  work  at 
the  College  of  the  City  of  New  York  and  Pratt 
Institute.  During  his  lifetime  he  was  with  Hardy 
S.  Ferguson  &  Co.,  Alvin  H.  Johnson  &  Co., 
Walter  Kidde  Constructors,  Inc.,  Lockwood 
Greene  Engineers.  Roderick  O.  Donoghue  & 
Co.,  Great  Northern  Paper  Co.  and  National 
Container  Corp.  From  1969  until  his  death  he 
was  associated  with  Velzy  Associates. 

Mr.  Gridley  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  ASME, 
TAPPI,  and  was  a  former  secretary  of  the  New 
York  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Kirtland  Marsh,  '14  of  Mt.  Lebanon,  Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania,  a  long-time  employee  of  the 
Aluminum  Co.  of  America,  died  on  September 
20,  1976. 

A  native  of  West  Newton,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  February  25,  1891 .  After  receiving  his  BSME 
from  WPI,  he  joined  Norton  Co.  for  two  years 
prior  to  service  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  the  chemi- 
cal warfare  division  during  World  War  I.  From 
1919  until  his  retirement  in  1957,  he  was  with 
ALCOA,  where  he  was  in  charge  of  the  furnace 
division  in  the  mechanical  engineering  depart- 
ment. 

Mr.  Marsh,  a  Mason,  was  the  father  of  Her- 
bert W.  Marsh  of  the  Class  of  1 943 .  He  played  a 
significant  role  in  the  development  of  furnaces 
used  in  heat  treating  and  fabricating  of 
aluminum. 

Clarence  F.  Alexander,  '15  of  Tavares,  Florida 
passed  away  on  June  6.  1976. 

He  was  born  on  April  22,  1894  in  Worcester 
and  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI  in  1915.  During 
his  career  he  was  with  International  Projector 
Corp.  and  National  Theatre  Supply,  New  York 
City,  retiring  in  1 958.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa. 

Joseph  M.  Chandler,  '16  of  East  Bridgewater, 
Massachusetts,  co-founder  and  manager  of  the 
Chandler  Construction  Co.,  died  on  October  14, 
1976  at  the  age  of  83. 

An  East  Bridgewater  native,  he  became  a 
mechanical  engineering  student  at  WPI.  For 
many  years  he  served  as  trustee  and  president  of 
East  Bridgewater  Savings  Bank.  He  was  also  a 
trustee  of  Brockton  Hospital  and  a  former 
member  of  the  Brockton  Country  Club.  During 
World  War  I  he  was  a  flying  instructor  at  Lake 
Charles.  La. 

Herman  Hollerith,  Jr.,  '17  of  Oxford,  Maryland 
passed  away  on  September  1 ,  1 976 

After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical 
engineer,  he  was  employed  by  the  Naval  Aircraft 
Factory  Later  he  was  with  John  Harrison,  Jr  Co  . 
Victor  Talking  Machine  Co..  and  Mechanical 
Improvements  Co  From  1 93 1  to  1 936  he  was 
co-president  of  Virginia  Navigation  In  1961  he 
retired  from  Glenn  L  Martin  Co  as  senior  mate- 
rials engineer 

Mr  Hollerith  belonged  to  the  American  Soci- 
ety of  Mechanical  Engineers  and  the  Society  of 
Automotive  Engineers  He  was  born  in 
Georgetown.  DC  on  September  17.  1892 


Richard  D.  Lambert,  '17  of  Orleans,  Mas- 
sachusetts, a  retired  executive  secretary  of  tn 
Central  Massachusetts  Employers  Associatioi 
died  on  July  30,  1976. 

A  native  of  West  New  Brighton,  N.Y.,  he  l| 
attended  WPI  and  graduated  as  a  mechanic^ 
engineer.  During  World  War  I  he  served  withL 
British  Merchant  Marine  and  the  U.S.  Navy.  I 
After  the  war  he  was  with  Elevator  Supply  Ol  j 
General  Motors,  andGE.  Later  he  joined  NoriH 
Co.  and  then  the  Worcester  Children's  FriernM 
Society.  In  1934  he  became  executive  secrety 
of  the  Central  Massachusetts  Employers  Assii- 
ation,  a  post  he  held  until  he  retired  in  1965J 
During  World  War  II  he  represented  New  EnM 
land  employers  on  the  wage  committee  of  tf 
Regional  War  Labor  Board. 

Mr.  Lambert  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappi 
the  Masons,  and  had  served  on  the  executivi 
committee  of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the  Alurii 
Association.  He  had  received  a  presidential  ck 
tion  for  his  work  with  the  crippled  and  handier 
ped. 

Joseph  P.  Garmon,  '18  of  Bolingbrook,  IllinoU 
passed  away  on  his  82nd  birthday,  Septembel, 
1976. 

A  native  of  Lowell,  Mass.,  he  later  gradual 
from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer.  From  131 
until  he  retired  in  1960,  he  was  with  R.  E.  Runt 
Construction  Co.,  Inc.,  Lowell.  He  belonged  i 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  and  was  a  registered,  pro> 
sional  engineer. 

Rudolph  C.  Stange,  '20,  a  retired  civil  enginer, 
died  August  1 0. 1 976  in  Los  Altos,  Calif  ornia.f 
was  78. 

A  specialist  in  fire  prevention,  he  worked  w 
the  Navy  and  the  Coast  Guard  during  WorldN 
War  II.  Later  he  became  general  manager  of  k 
National  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters  in  San  Ffl 
Cisco. 

Mr.  Stange  was  born  on  June  21 ,  1898  in 
Orange,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigrjh 
Kappa,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Xi.  He  also 
belonged  to  the  Society  of  Fire  Protection  Enlj 
gineers  and  the  Society  of  American  Military! 
Engineers.  Formerly  he  was  president  of  the  m 
Northern  California  chapter  of  the  Alu  mni  A<t 
sociation. 

E.  Sumner  Thayer,  '21  of  North  Grafton,  Matt 
sachusetts  passed  away  recently. 

Born  on  July  28,  1898  in  Worcester,  he  laf 
graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI.  He  was  wi 
International  Paper  Co..  Falulah  Paper  Co..  m 
ton  Co.,  andGro-Lex,  Inc.  He  belonged  to  tlr 
Scottish  Rites,  A.F.  &  A.M.,  the  Shrine,  and  H 
Sigma  Kappa.  He  served  as  a  former  vice  pre! 
dent  of  the  New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumnii 
Association. 

Dean  W.  Alden,  '22  of  Philadelphia,  Pennsyi 
vania  died  on  October  9,  1 976. 

A  native  of  Durham,  N.H.,  he  was  born  or  j 
August  12,  1896  He  graduated  with  a  BSEE! 
1922.  From  1922  until  1923  he  was  with  GEi 
1 961  he  retired  as  chief  engineer  from 
Blackstone  Valley  Gas  &  Electric  Co. ,  where  I 
had  worked  since  1 923  He  was  a  member  cj ' 
Providence  Engineering  Society,  AIEE.  the  A/j* 
sons,  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  Formerly  he  vM 
council  member  from  the  Rhode  Island  chadl 
of  the  Alumni  Association 


32    December  1976   WPI  Journal 


ml  Bradlaw,  '22,  who  served  Norwich  Free 
cademy  (N.F.A.)  for  52  years,  died  unexpec- 
dly  at  his  home  in  Norwich,  Connecticut  on 
ictober  9, 1 976.  He  was  76  years  old. 

Born  in  Norwich  on  May  24,  1 900,  he  later 
udied  at  WPI  with  the  Student  Army  Training 
orps.  He  taught  printing  and  industrial  arts  at 
.FA,  where  he  also  served  as  administrative 
distant  to  three  principals.  The  manual  training 
uilding  was  named  Bradlaw  House  in  his  honor. 

In  1941  he  was  cited  for  his  distinguished 
;rvice  to  education  by  the  State  Board  of  Educa- 
or\.  A  copy  of  his  book,  Observations  on  the 
evelopment  of  the  Alphabet  and  Printing,  was 
gently  added  to  the  Rare  Book  and  Special 
ollections  Division  of  the  Library  of  Congress. 

an  V.  Abadjieff,  '28,  a  retired  chief  engineer 
>r  Leland-Gifford  Co.,  died  on  September  3, 
976  at  his  home  in  Worcester. 
He  invented  many  machine  parts  that  are 
jrrently  used  world-wide.  Healsowasaconsul- 
nt  and  products  tester  for  a  number  of  man- 
:acturers. 

Mr.  Abadjieff,  who  was  born  in  Bulgaria  in 
900,  studied  finance  and  administration  at  the 
niversity  of  Sofia  prior  to  entering  WPI.  After 
aduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  he  joined 
?land-Gifford  where  he  retired  eleven  years 
50.  He  belonged  to  the  Worcester  County 
\usic  Association,  was  active  with  the  Music 
stival  and  Worcester  County  Light  Opera,  and 
:rved  as  president  of  the  Coes  Pond  Preserva- 
on  Association.  He  was  also  a  member  of  ASME 
id  Chartered  American  Inventors. 

^man  W.  Cross,  '28,  retired  manager  of  U.S. 
ivelope  Co.,  died  in  Laconia,  New  Hampshire 
i  August  24,  1 976.  He  was  70  years  old. 
A  native  of  Millbury,  Mass.,  he  received  his 
5MEin  1928.  He  retired  in  1970  following 42 
:ars  of  service  with  the  Kellogg  Division  of  U.S. 
ivelope  Co.  in  Springfield,  Mass.  He  was  a 
ember  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Sigma  Xi,  and  the 
lgineering  Society  of  Western  Massachusetts, 
e  was  a  past  president  of  the  Connecticut 
alley  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Bernard  Erkkila,  '31  of  Fitchburg,  Mas- 
chusetts  died  on  July  22 , 1 976  at  the  age  of  66. 
After  graduating  as  a  civil  engineer  from  WPI, 
;  was  with  Independent  Lock  Co.  until  1 946. 
uring  his  career  he  was  a  general  manager  for 
rant  Plastics,  Inc.,  and  llco  Co.  A  former 
nployee  of  Iver  Johnson  Co.,  Fitchburg,  he 
ttiredin  1975. 

Mr.  Erkkila  was  born  in  Fitchburg  on  August 
0, 1 909  and  was  a  member  of  the  Mas- 
ichusetts  Society  of  Professional  Engineers.  He 
Iso  belonged  to  Alpha  Tau  Omega. 

eginald  A.  Morrill,  '36,  president  of  Dominion 
ence  Co.,  Worcester,  died  on  October  10, 
976.  He  was  61  years  old. 
He  was  born  on  January  11, 1915  in  Waltham, 
Aass.  A  graduate  mechanical  engineer,  he  was 
/ith  Morrill  Lumber  Co.,  Worcester  and 
•lackstone  (Mass.)  Lumber  Co.  For  the  past  1 5 
ears  he  was  president  of  Dominion  Fence  Co. 
1e  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Masons, 
nd  the  Worcester  Country  Club. 


Douglas  W.  Marden,  '39,  a  consulting  geologist, 
died  on  August  16, 1976  in  Garden  City,  Kansas. 
He  was  stricken  while  on  a  business  trip. 

He  was  born  on  Jan.  3, 1917  in  Oklahoma 
City,  Okla.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  graduated 
from  Clark  University  in  1939,  later  receiving  his 
master's  in  geology  at  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

During  World  War  II  he  was  captain  of  a 
minesweeper  in  the  Pacific  and  was  cited  for 
bravery  in  action  off  Guam  in  1 944.  He  owned 
three  companies  dealing  with  geology  with 
headquarters  in  Evergreen,  Colo.  He  had  worked 
for  the  U.S.  Geological  Service  and  several  oil 
companies  prior  to  forming  his  own  business  as  a 
consulting  geologist.  He  held  the  rank  of  Lt. 
Commander,  USNR,  retired. 

Gordon  B.  Turner,  '47,  former  editor  and  pub- 
lisher of  the  Nantucket  Inquirer  Mirror  and 
circulation  distributor  for  the  Cape  Cod  Times, 
died  in  Nantucket,  Massachusetts  on  October  8, 
1976. 

After  attending  WPI ,  he  took  over  the  opera- 
tion of  the  Inquirer  following  his  father's  death. 
He  sold  the  paper  in  1958,  but  remained  in  the 
graphics  department  until  last  year  when  he 
retired  for  health  reasons.  At  one  time  he  was  the 
proprietor  of  Universal  Photo  Shop  in  Nan- 
tucket. 

A  Mason,  he  also  belonged  to  the  Nantucket 
Historical  Association,  the  Sons  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, and  the  Eastern  Star.  He  was  born  in  New 
Bedford,  Mass.  on  January  22,  1927. 

Neil  J.  Crowley,  '50,  a  civil  engineer  associated 
with  the  construction  of  several  buildings  at 
WPI,  died  on  September  23, 1976  in  Worcester. 
He  was  49. 

He  served  as  clerk  of  the  works  for  Daniels, 
Gordon  Library,  Goddard,  Harrington  Au- 
ditorium, and  Stoddard  Residence.  Previously  he 
was  superintendent  at  Turner  Construction  Co. 
He  also  owned  Crowley  Package  Store,  Inc.  at 
Tatnuck  Square. 

Mr.  Crowley  belonged  to  Phi  Kappa  Theta, 
PDE,  Skull,  ASCE,  Tatnuck  Island  Club,  and 
Aquinas  Association.  After  WPI,  he  attended 
Babson  Institute.  He  had  been  a  member  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Citations  Committee,  the  Nominat- 
ing Committee,  the  Alumni  Council,  and  was  a 
former  president  of  the  Worcester  Cou  nty  chap- 
ter of  the  Alumni  Association.  A  Worcester 
native,  he  was  also  a  World  War  II  Navy  veteran. 

Allan  R.  Whittum,  '63  died  on  August  29,  1976 
in  Dillon,  Montana  after  being  struck  by  a  car 
while  riding  a  bicycle  on  a  cross-country  trip. 

He  was  born  on  August  30,  1 941  in  New 
Haven,  Conn.,  studied  mechanical  engineering 
at  WPI,  and  received  his  BAfrom  Northeastern  in 
1 967.  He  was  a  systems  engineer  for  IBM  in 
Boston.  A  member  of  Outward  Bound  Associa- 
tion of  Greenwich,  Conn.,  he  also  belonged  to 
Community  Boating,  Inc.  of  Boston  and  Ford 
Hall  Forum,  Boston. 

Among  his  relatives  who  attended  WPI  were 
his  father  Gordon  Whittum,  '33;  his  cousin, 
Robert  Whittum,  '62;  and  his  grandfather, 
Leonard  W.  Howell,  '08. 


Thomas  Y.  Liu,  '67  of  Van  Nuys,  California  died 
on  June  26,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  October  21 ,  1938  in  Honan, 
China.  In  1967  he  graduated  as  a  chemical 
engineer  from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was 
with  American  Reinforced  Plastics,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.;  Armour  Industrial  Products;  and  duPont. 
He  belonged  to  AICE  and  the  American  Chemi- 
cal Society. 

Stephen  D.  Hausmann,  72  died  August  6, 1 976 
in  Great  Falls,  Montana  following  an  accident  in 
which  his  motorcycle  slammed  into  the  rear 
wheels  of  a  tractor  trailer. 

He  was  born  in  Springfield,  Mass.  on  October 
18,  1 950.  While  studying  at  WPI,  he  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta.  He  joined  the  Air 
Force  five  years  ago  and  was  a  staff  sergeant  at 
the  time  of  his  death,  having  been  stationed  at 
Malmstrom  AFB  as  a  member  of  the  team 
training  branch  of  the  341th  Strategic  Missile 
Wing  Headquarters  Squadron.  A  president  of 
Big  Brothers,  Inc.,  he  was  also  a  member  of  the 
Optimist  Club. 

Paul  J.  Soares,  '75  was  fatally  injured  in  an  auto 
accident  in  Pottstown,  Pennsylvania  on  May  15, 
1976. 

He  was  born  in  Providence,  R.I.  on  August  18, 
1953.  After  graduating  as  a  chemical  engineer 
from  WPI,  he  worked  for  Firestone  Tire  &  Rub- 
ber Co.,  Perryville,  Md.  He  belonged  to  TKE. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976  /  33 


Successful  company  currently  manu- 
facturing and  marketing  photographic 
and  chemical  products,  with  plants  in 
Rochester,  N.Y.,  Kingsport,  Tenn., 
Windsor,  Colo.,  Longview,  Tex.,  Co- 
lumbia, S.C.,  and  Batesville,  Ark., 
seeks  people  who  will  eventually  have 
to  decide  how,  where,  and  why  it 
should  make  and  sell  what  in  the 
year  2000  and  beyond.  Requirements: 
1)  documented  proficiency  in  coping 
intellectually  with  modern  concepts  in 
chemical  engineering,  or  mechanical 
engineering,  or  chemistry,  etc,  where 
the  focus  is  on  things,  forces,  and 
equations;  2)  a  record  of  some  ac- 
complishment that  called  for  warmth 
toward  people  and  their  feelings,  such 
as  will  be  needed  for  interaction  with 
colleagues  or  to  accept  the  responsi- 
bilities of  leadership  (if  that  happens 
to  be  the  goal);  3)  proof  of  ability  to 
keep  several  spinning  objects  simul- 
taneously aloft,  such  as  having  held 
gainful  employment  (not  necessarily 
pleasant)  or  important  responsibility 
on  campus  while  absorbing  technical 
know-how.  Please  indicate  interest  to 
Eastman  Kodak  Company,  Business 
and  Technical  Personnel,  Rochester, 
N.Y.  14650. 


K^ 


An  equal-opportunity  employer  (f/m) 


rcDr\u«rw    wti 


IIIPp 


a 


1+  6 


^Weekend 
197T 


Enjoy  an  early  summer  weekend  at  WPI  with  your  classmates. 

Alumni  and  their  families  are  invited  to  return  to  campus  for  th 
Reunion  weekend.  Enjoy  a  fun  time  to  renew  old  acquaintances  an 
the  cammaraderie  of  old  friends  in  the  familiar  surroundings  of  you 
college  campus. 

Programs  planned  for  alumni  on  Friday  and  Saturday  are: 

Financial  and  Estate  Planning:  An  informative  and  invaluabl 

session  on  personal  finances  for  young  and  old,  male  or  female. 

Admissions:  For  those  with  college- age  children  or  grandchildren 
some  tips  on  current  trends  in  admissions  practices  and  financier 
aid  throughout  the  country. 

WPI  Today:  What  the  WPI  Plan  is  really  like  discussed  by  facult 
and  students.  You  will  be  amazed  by  the  changes  and  impressed  b\ 
the  innovation  and  enthusiasm  on  campus. 


Good  Old  Days  Get-Together:  Friday  evening -an  informal  part 
at  the  Pub.  Banjo  band,  draught  beer,  wine,  peanuts  and  goo 
fellowship.  Everyone  invited. 


Annual  Reunion  Luncheon:  On  the  lawn  of  the  Higgins  Housi\ 
Saturday  noon. 

Special  Reunion  Parties  and  Activities  are  planned  for:  1912 
1917,  1922,  1927,  1932,  1937,  1942,  1947,  1952,  1957,  1962  (296. 
and  1972  will  be  holding  their  reunions  at  Homecoming). 

Campus  Touts  throughout  the  weekend. 

Convenient  rooms  available  in  dormitories  or  apartments. 

lor  reservations  or  more  detailed  information  call  or  write  ill 
J  KJIC  y-12       Alumni  Office  (617 1753-1411). 


2  On  the  Hill 

3  Tuition  at  WPI — up,  up,  and  away  out  of  reach? 

Economics  professor  Thad  Roddenbery  analyzes  tuition 
increases  at  WPI  overthe  past  quarter  century — and  finds  them 
not  nearly  so  bad  as  we'd  thought. 

6  Earthquake! 

Jay  Pulli,  75,  discusses themechanics — and  more  importantly, 
the  implications — of  knowing  where  and  when  an  earthquake 
will  hit. 

14  Your  class  and  others 

16  WPI's  own  Kennedys 

20  lacobucci  lights  'em  up! 

23  Math  teacher  in  Malaysia 

24  Completed  Careers 


Cover:  This  is  one  possible  approach  to  the  earthquake 

problem — but  don't  say  we  recommended  it.  Art  by  Ann  McCrea. 


'itor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

umni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

iblications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
1, chairman:  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57;  Leonard 
zozowski,  74;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried 
Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev. 
iward  I.  Swanson,  '45. 

esign:  H.  Russell  Kay 

'pography:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
•assachu  setts 

lifting:  The  House  of  Offset,  Somerville, 
lassachu  setts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  editorial 
content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor,  WPI  JOUR- 
NAL, Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worces- 
ter, Massachusetts  01 609  (phone  61 7-753  - 
1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Copyright  ©  1977  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December,  Feb- 
ruary, and  April.  Second  Class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Postmaster-  Please 
send  Form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.  A.  Julian,  '49 
R.  A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B.  E. 
Hosmer,  '61 ;  L.  Polizzotto  70;  J.  A.  Palley,  '46;  J. 
L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Beard:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman;  L.  H. 
White,  '41;  C.A.Anderson,  '51;  H.  I.  Nelson, 
'54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D  J.  Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  / 1 


by  the  editor 


An  energetic  winter 

The  winter  of  1977  is  one  most  of  us  will 
remember  for  a  long  time  to  come  — 
particularly  those  who  live  in  the  eastern 
two- thirds  of  the  country.  And  while 
New  England  hasn't  been  as  hard  hit  as 
the  Midwest  and  the  South,  it's  been  no 
picnic. 

One  of  the  costs  of  a  winter  like  this,  for 
the  col  lege  just  as  for  every  homeowner,  is 
the  enormous  expense  for  heating.  lust  a 
year  ago,  WPI  won  a  federal  award  for 
conservation  after  cutting  total  energy 
use  on  campus  by  32  percent.  But  this 
vear  the  much  colder  than  normal  tem- 
peratures have,  despite  all  further  at- 
tempts at  saving,  boosted  heating  oil 
usage  by  30  percent  and  electrical  con- 
sumption by  4  percent. 


Solar  houses  for  Maine?  Not 
quite  yet,  accordingto  a  student 
project 

Maine,  with  its  plunging  temperatures,  is 
one  of  the  areas  in  the  United  States 
which  is  most  affected  by  the  energy 
crisis  The  search  for  alternative  energy 
sources  has  led  to  Maine  C  ongressman 
Davul  F.  Emery's ('70) interest  in  solar 
energy  and  his  sponsoring  of  .i  solar  en- 
ergy project  which  was  carried  out  last  tall 
by  three  student  interns  completing  then 
Interactive  Qualifying  Project  |IQP]  de- 
gree requirements. 

I  i  it  seven  weeks,  the  students,  Edmund 
I  Sprogis,  78,  I  'avid  I    1  law  lev,  77,  anil 
John  L  Anderson,  78,  worked  out  ot 

WPI's  Washington  Project  c  enter  in  co 
nun  with  Charles  F  Bass,  adminis- 
trative assistant  to  Congressman  I  men 
I  Jnder  the  guidance  of  Di   l  nomas  Keil, 
i  hairman  of  the  WPI  physics  department, 
and  <  ieorge  Mansfield,  professoi  of  i  ivil 


engineering,  the  students  made  an 
analysis  comparing  the  costs  of  conven- 
tional heating  systems,  solar  systems 
with  auxiliary  heating,  and  pure  solar 
systems.  They  also  developed  a  computer 
program  which  can  help  the  individual 
homeowner  determine  his  own  solar  en- 
ergy needs. 

During  the  study,  the  group  compiled 
information  concerning  energy  problems 
and  potentials  in  the  Maine  area.  For 
additional  information  they  met  with 
several  experts  in  various  energy  fields. 
Considerable  data  came  from  Emery's 
own  office,  the  congressman  being  par- 
ticularly energy-minded.  He  is  a  member 
of  the  House  Committee  of  Science  and 
Technology  and  a  subcommittee  member 
for  Energy  Research,  Science  Research 
and  Technology. 

As  plans  for  the  WPI- Washington  proj- 
ect were  being  formulated,  Congressman 
Emery  said,  "The  more  rapidly  we 
develop  solar  energy  in  our  own  state,  the 
sooner  we  will  become  independent  of 
expensive,  unreliable,  imported  oil." 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  project,  the 
students  made  a  number  of  recom- 
mendations aimed  at  increasing  the  eco- 
nomic feasibility  of  solar  heating  in  the 
State  of  Maine.  They  suggested  that  there 
are  many  incentives  which  a  state  gov- 
ernment could  adopt  to  hasten  wider  pub- 
lic use  of  solar  heating:  grants,  tax  credits, 
property  tax  exemptions,  depreciation  al- 
lowances, and  interest  subsidies.  They 
felt  that  a  property  tax  incentive  would  be 
the  most  effective  in  increasing  the  eco- 
nomic feasibility  of  solar  heating  in 
Maine.  Such  an  incentive  would  increase 
solar  heating  system  sales,  thus  accelerat- 
ing mass  production  of  collectors,  which 
would  ultimately  lower  collector  prices. 
Solar  heating  would  then  be  more  com- 
petitive with  conventional  heating  sys- 
tems. 

It  is  hoped  by  the  students  that  the 
computer  program  developed  from  their 
project  will  be  used  by  the  people  of 
Maine  to  bring  the  potentials  of  solar 
heating  to  then  attention.  Due  way  in 
which  this  could  be  done  is  to  make  the 
program  available  to  heating  and  plumb- 
ing contractors  for  use  in  determining  the 
economic  feasibility  of  solar  heating  on  an 
individual  basis.  It  could  also  be  used  by 
asking  homeowners  to  send  the  required 
inputs  ot  the  program  toa  central  location 
where  the  individual  eases  mav  he  run 
through  the  computer,  with  the  results 
being  sent  hack  to  the  appropriate 
homeowner. 


In  any  case,  the  student  interns  who 
worked  on  die  solar  project  in  cooperatio 
with  Congressman  Emery,  hope  that 
their  computer  program  will  be  used  in 
some  capacity  so  that  the  people  of  Main 
will  become  more  aware  of  the  potentia. 
of  solar  heating. 

Trustee  nominations  now  bein, 
received 

Each  year  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
has  the  opportunity  to  nominate  three   j 
alumni  to  five-year  terms  as  Alumni 
Term  members  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Tru« 
tees.  C.  Eugene  Center  '30  of  Pittsburgh, 
PA,  Chairman  of  the  Alumni  Associatioi 
Trustee  Search  Committee,  has  recently 
announced  that  his  committee  is  now 
receiving  petitions  for  consideration  for 
the  term  beginning  in  July,  1978.  Alumn 
may  submit  petitions  on  or  before  Marcl 
30,  1977  and  should  be  mailed  to  Mr. 
Center,  c/o  WPI  Alumni  Office,  Alden 
Memorial,  WPI,  Worcester,  MA  01609. 
Questions  regarding  procedures  for  the 
formal  submission  of  proposals  should  b 
directed  to  Stephen  J.  Hebert  '66  at  the 
WPI  Alumni  Office,  Area  Code  6 1 7  753- 
1411. 


WPI  Journal 


union  at  WPI: 
jp,up,&dwoy 
>ut  of  reach? 


/Thaddeus  Roddenbery 


oo 


500 


'00 


■00 


00 


Figure  1 :  Comparative  tuition  increases, 
1 950-1 975  (for  each  school ,  1 950  tuition 
=  100) 


CLARK  UNIVERSITY V*  J 

/  / 


/A 


9     iHOLY  CROSS 


f 


MIT 


1955 


1960 


1965 


1970 


1975 


laddeus  H.  Roddenbery  is 
ofessor  of  economics  at  WPI.  He 
>lds  anA.B.  from  Mercer 
Diversity,  and  M.A.  and  Ph.D. 
'grees  from  Boston  University.  A 
'PI  faculty  member  since  1953, 
~)ddenbery  is  known  as  the 
mpus's  finest 

rtoonist-something  which  most  of 
s  students  will  agree  is  a  fine  way 
brighten  up  a  class. 


ARE  SOARING  TUITIONS  pushing  the  cost  of  a  WPI 
i  education  beyond  the  reach  of  the  children  of  modest 
and  middle  income  families?  The  surprising  answer,  ac- 
cording to  a  recent  study  is  that  1975's  tuition,  at  $3,150, 
was  less  of  a  burden  to  today's  students  than  was  the  $600 
paid  by  their  parents'  generation  in  the  early  1950s. 

This  was  the  conclusion  reached  by  eighteen  students 
last  year  in  a  course  titled  "Issues  in  Political  Economy." 
Rising  education  costs  was  one  of  eight  economic  prob- 
lems surveyed,  including  topics  such  as  consumer  protec- 
tion, resource  conservation,  and  economic  discrimination. 
The  tuition  study  was  pursued  as  a  course  project 
throughout  the  seven- week  term  to  allow  for  the  collec- 
tion and  analysis  of  data.  This  topic  was  chosen  for  more 
intensive  study  because  it  is  a  national  economic  problem 
with  immediate  and  practical  importance  to  students, 
because  students  have  relatively  good  access  to  sources  of 
original  data,  and  because — to  our  surprise  —  no  previous 
study  of  the  problem  and  data  could  be  found! 

Tuition  figures  for  WPI  and  six  other  colleges  and 
universities  were  accumulated  from  the  respective  annual 
bulletins  for  the  years  1950-75.  The  comparison  institu- 
tions —  Brown  University,  Clark  University,  Dartmouth 
College,  College  of  the  Holy  Cross,  Massachusetts  Insti- 
tute of  Technology,  and  the  University  of  Vermont  — 
were  "selected"  more  for  their  accessibility  than  for  any 
other  reason,  but  they  comprise  a  reasonably  comparable 
group  nevertheless.  Clark  and  Holy  Cross  are  both 
Worcester  institutions  similar  in  size  to  WPI,  and  MIT 
provides  comparison  with  another  predominately  scien- 
tific and  technological  college.  Brown,  Dartmouth  and  the 
University  of  Vermont  were  included  mainly  because 
members  of  the  class  were  able  to  collect  the  data  while  in 
their  vicinities  during  weekends.  They  provide,  however, 
an  interesting  comparison  with  institutions  which  are 
larger  and  have  a  broader  educational  orientation  than 
WPI.  "Technical  colleges"  at  the  University  of  Vermont 
include  schools  of  agriculture,  home  economics,  and 
education,  and  they  are  less  comparable  to  WPI  than  the 
general  heading  suggests. 

The  accompanying  table  shows  a  persistent  rise  in 
tuition  for  all  seven  institutions  over  the  twenty-five-year 
period,  but  whereas  WPI  was  among  the  more  expensive 
colleges  in  1950,  only  the  University  of  Vermont  had  a 
lower  tuition  than  WPI  in  1975.  The  bottom  line  of  the 
table  shows  the  percentage  increase  over  the  twenty-five 
years  for  each  institution,  and  here  again  only  one  college, 
MIT,  showed  a  smaller  increase  than  WPI.  It  is  interesting 
that  the  two  engineering  schools  in  the  sample  showed  the 
smallest  increase.  This  is  one  of  a  number  of  intriguing 
observations  which  could  not  be  explored  in  the  time 
available. 

Figure  1  provides  a  better  visualization  of  the  relative 
increase  in  tuition  among  the  four  most  nearly  compara- 
ble colleges.  Tuition  in  dollars  was  converted  to  index 
numbers,  in  which  annual  tuition  for  each  college  is 
expressed  as  a  per  cent  of  that  college's  tuition  in  1950. 
Rapid  escalation  in  tuition  appears  to  have  begun  around 
1955,  with  WPI's  tuition  growing  at  an  almost  constant 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  /  3 


1950 


1955 


1960 


1965 


1970 


1975 


1950 


1955 


1960 


1965 


1970 


Annual  tuition  charges  for  undergraduate  students 


Year 

1949-50 
1950-51 
1951-52 
1952-53 
1953-54 
1954-55 
1955-56 
1956-57 
1957-58 
1958-59 
1959-60 
1960-61 
1961-62 
1962-63 
1963-64 
1964-65 
1965-66 
1966-67 
1967-68 
1968-69 
1969-70 
1970-71 
1971-72 
1972-73 
'.-74 
1974-75 


WPI 

.    600 

600 

600 

600 

800 

800 

800 

900 

1,100 

1,100 

1.350 

1,350 

1,350 

1,600 

1,600 

1,800 

1,800 

2.100 

2,100 

2,400 

2,400 

2,525 

2.525 

2,750 

2,900 

3,150 


Brown 

Univ. 

$    600 

600 

700 

700 

700 

850 

850 

950 

1,250 

1,250 

1,400 

1,400 

1,600 

1,600 

1,800 

1,800 

2,000 

2,000 

2,100 

2,300 

2,600 

2,850 

3,050 

3,250 

3,500 

3,900 


Holy 

Clark 

Dartmouth 

Cross 

Univ. 

College 

College 

$    400 

$    675 

$    440 

450 

675 

500 

500 

800 

500 

500 

800 

500 

600 

800 

500 

600 

800 

.  500 

700 

980 

600 

700 

1,170 

600 

850 

1,170 

700 

1,050 

1,400 

700 

1,050 

1,400 

775 

1,300 

1,550 

1,000 

1,300 

1,550 

1,000 

1,500 

1,675 

1,200 

1,500 

1,800 

1,200 

1,700 

1,800 

1,400 

1,700 

1,925 

1,400 

1,900 

2,075 

1,700 

2,000 

2,075 

1,700 

2,200 

2,350 

2,000 

2,500 

2,550 

2,350 

2,600 

2,820 

2,480 

2,600 

3,060 

2,480 

2,800 

3,270 

2,730 

3,100 

3,700 

2,900 

3,450 

3,900 

3,150 

Univ.  of 

Vermont, 

MIT 

Technical 

Colleges 

800 

$    525 

800 

525 

900 

525 

900 

620 

900 

625 

900 

705 

1,100 

705 

1,100 

835 

1,300 

835 

1,300 

835 

1,500 

1,500 

1,040 

1,700 

1,200 

1,700 

1,200 

1,700 

1,500 

1,700 

1,500 

1,900 

1,500 

1,9.00 

1,800 

2,150 

1,800 

2,150 

2,000 

2,150 

2,200 

2,650 

2,200 

2,900 

2,400 

3,100  . 

2,500 

3,350 

2,650 

3,350 

2,930 

%  Increase 
1950-75 


425.0 


550.0 


762.5 


477.8 


615.9 


318.8 


458.1 


/eraii  rate  since  men,  wniie  dark  ana  hioiy  Ljtoss 
litions  were  growing  exponentially.  At  MIT,  the  rate  of 
icrease  lagged  behind  WPI  during  the  1960s,  but  has  been 
osing  the  gap  in  the  1970s.  The  evidence  indicates  that 
rpi  has  done  a  relatively  good  job  of  holding  down  the  rate 
f  tuition  increase. 

Small  comfort?  After  all,  tuition  in  the  year  just  past 
-as  more  than  five  times  what  it  was  twenty-five  years 
50,  wasn't  it?  Well,  not  really.  Measuring  the  price  of 
lything  in  inflated  dollars  creates  exactly  the  same 
/erstatement  as  measuring  distance  with  a  shrunken 
pe  measure.  The  comparision  of  growth  rates  between 
)lleges  is  still  valid,  but  comparing  $3, 1 50  in  today's 
iflated  money  with  $600  in  1950  is  meaningless. 
To  get  around  this  problem,  economists  use  the  concept 
opportunity  costs.  The  real  cost  of  anything  is  what  you 
ive  to  give  up  in  order  to  get  it.  Spending  $600  on  tuition 
WPI  in  1 950  —  or  $3, 1 50  in  1 975  —  represents  a  lost 
)portunity  to  spend  that  money  on  other  things.  The  real 
.crihce  of  goods  and  services  by  1950's  students  must  be 
>mpared  with  those  sacrificed  by  students  in  1975. 
ccording  to  the  U.S.  Department  of  Commerce's  Con- 
tmer  Price  Index,  each  1950  dollar  had  the  purchasing 
)wer  of  $2.22  of  1975  money.  In  dollars  of  1975  purchas- 
ig  power,  then,  tuition  in  1950  was  $1,333,  and  the  real 
.crease  over  the  past  twenty-five  years  was  136  per  cent 
ther  than  425  per  cent. 

In  dollars  of  constant  purchasing  power,  the  total  in- 
ease  in  tuition  charges  at  WPI  since  1950  was  not  only 
astically  less  than  inflated  dollar  figures  would  indicate, 
it  the  pattern  of  increase  was  markedly  different.  While 
;e  nominal  tuition  was  marching  steadily  upward,  the 
al  cost  actually  declined  in  some  years,  and  reached  its 
:ak  in  1969.  Figure  2  shows  that  the  1970s  have  so  far 
:en  a  period  of  real  decline  in  the  tuition  charged  at  WPI. 
lis  is  explained,  of  course,  by  the  fact  that  since  1969  the 
hie  of  money  was  falling  faster  than  tuition  was  rising. 
Inflation  erodes  family  incomes  just  as  it  does  tuition 
targes,  but  incomes  have  risen  enough  since  1969  to 
fset  the  effect  of  the  rise  in  the  price  level.  Median  family 
come  rose  46  percent  from  1969  to  1975  ($9,433  to 
13,726)   compared  with  a  3 1  percent  rise  in  WPI's  tuition 
-om  $2,400  to  $3, 150).  The  decline  in  tuition  in 
mstant-value  dollars  since  1969  can  therefore  be  ex- 
:nded  to  conclude  that  there  has  been  a  real  and  signifi- 
int  decrease  in  the  burden  of  tuition  payments  on  WPI 
udentsinthe  1970s. 

Figure  3  shows  WPI  tuition  as  a  percentage  of  median 
mily  income.  Up  to  1964  tuition  generally  took  a  larger 
id  larger  bite  out  of  family  income.  Payments  averaged 
3  percent  of  family  income  in  the  1 950's,  rose  to  hover  at 
S  percent  in  the  mid-sixties,  then  leveled  off  at  23  percent 
om  1972  to  1975.  But  although  today's  tuition  payments 
ike  a  larger  percentage  of  the  family's  income  than  did 
lose  of  the  1950's,  the  parents  of  today's  students  do  not 
ave  to  make  as  large  a  sacrifice  on  the  average  as  their 
arents  did.  This  is  true  because  the  real  purchasing  power 
:ft  over  after  paying  tuition  today  is  much  greater  than  it 
'as  twenty-five  years  ago.  The  "typical"  or  median  in- 


come ramily  earned  $3,3 19  in  1950,  and  had  $2,719  left 
after  paying  $600  tuition.  Taking  account  of  inflation,  this 
would  have  bought  the  equivalent  of  $6,002  in  1975. 
Subtracting  $3, 150  in  tuition  in  1975  from  the  median 
familyincomeof  $13,726 leaves $10,576— a  76%  increase 
in  residual  purchasing  power. 

These  figures  are  all  based  on  median  or  "typical"  family 
incomes,  but  since  there  has  been  no  significant  shift  in 
income  distribution  over  the  past  twenty-five  years  the 
same  conclusion  holds,  on  the  average,  for  all  families.  A 
"poor"  family  or  an  "affluent"  family  today  can  much 
better  afford  to  pay  today's  "high"  tuitions  at  WPI  than 
could  a  family  of  comparable  economic  status  a  generation 
ago. 

In  making  this  study,  the  class  showed  an  awareness  of 
the  fact  that  tuition  buys  more  at  WPI  today  than  it  did  in 
the  past,  but  many  of  the  changes  are  not  as  apparent  to 
contemporary  students  as  they  would  be  to  a  visiting 
alumnus.  At  the  class's  invitation,  President  Hazzard 
spent  one  class  period  discussing  the  improvements  that 
have  been  made  in  the  educational  program  and  physical 
facilities,  and  the  problems  of  financing  educational  inno- 
vation and  development.  Improvements  are  not  only 
desirable,  but  they  are  essential  to  the  survival  of  the 
college.  Keeping  pace  with  developments  in  science, 
technology,  and  education  has  required  such  major  physi- 
cal additions  as  a  large  computer  facility,  a  nuclear  reactor, 
and  a  modern  central  library,  with  academic  departments 
and  service  staffs  to  provide  educational  opportunities 
which  simply  did  not  exist  for  the  students  of  twenty-five 
years  ago.  Continual  development  in  traditional  subject 
offerings  necessitated  new  laboratories  and  equipment 
and  the  expanison  of  faculty  expertise.  The  expectations  of 
students  and  more  aggressive  competition  among  colleges 
in  attracting  the  ablest  students  required  the  development 
of  a  wide  choice  of  studies  in  the  humanities  and  social 
sciences. 

The  launching  of  the  WPI  Plan  was  clearly  the  most 
dramatic  qualitative  change  in  the  educational  services 
which  the  college  provides  in  return  for  its  tuition  charges. 
There  remain  some  students  who  express  doubts  as  to 
whether  or  not  this  innovation  represents  an  improve- 
ment, but  an  overwhelming  majority  apparently  regard  it 
as  such.  Existing  objective  evidence  also  strongly  supports 
a  positive  view  of  the  Plan.  If  it  is  difficult  to  get  universal 
agreement  even  on  the  direction  of  such  qualitative 
changes,  it  may  well  be  impossible  to  devise  any  objective 
scale  of  measurement.  Without  attempting  such  meas- 
urement, the  members  of  the  class  concluded  that  there 
has  indeed  been  a  very  significant  increase  in  the  value  of 
the  educational  experience  provided  at  WPI,  and  that  this 
too  must  be  taken  into  account  in  assessing  the  historical 
growth  in  tuition  rates. 

There.  Doesn't  that  make  you  feel  better? 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  /  5 


Recent  natural  disasters  in  Guatemala,  Italy,  and  China 
have  again  brought  attention  to  the  destructive  power  of 
earthquakes.  Experiments  now  being  performed  in 
laboratories  and  seismological  observatories  across  the 
country  may  lead  to  reliable  earthquake  prediction  in  ten 
years.  But  what  are  the  social  and  economic  problems 
associated  with  earthquake  prediction!  A  recent  predic- 
tion for  the  Los  Angeles  area  illustrates  the  problems. 


)yJayJ.  Pulli,  75 


lay].  Pulli,  a  1975  WPI physics 
graduate  from  Somerville,  Mass.,  is 
currently  a  graduate  student  at  the 
Weston  Observatory  of  Boston 
University,  studying  seismology. 
This  article  was  orginally  scheduled 
for  the  October  issue  of  the  Journal, 
but  the  ]uly  great  earthquake  in 
China  created  a  significant  amount 
of  extra  work  and  study  for 
seismologists  all  over  the  globe.  Thus 
the  delay. 


IT  HAS  BEEN  ESTIMATED  that,  during  historic  times,  as  many  as  1 5  million 
people  have  lost  their  lives  because  of  earthquakes  and  such  related  effects  as 
landslides  and  tsunami's  (seismic  sea  waves).  Certainly  a  list  of  the  world's 
most  destructive  earthquakes  reads  like  wartime  casualty  figures,  with  the 
exception  that  during  an  earthquake  the  majority  of  lives  are  lost  within 
minutes  of  the  shock.  The  United  States  has  been  rather  lucky  in  its  brief 
history  even  though  the  notorious  San  Andreas  Fault  runs  up  and  down  our 
west  coast.  Yes,  we  have  had  destructive  earthquakes  in  the  past,  notably  the 
San  Francisco  earthquake  of  1906  which  killed  600  people.  But  the  United 
States  has  so  far  escaped  disasters  such  as  those  which  occur  in  the  Mediterra- 
nean, India,  China,  and  Japan  where  a  single  shock  can  kill  100,000  people.  In 
the  meantime,  the  population  of  California  grows,  strain  is  building  up  along 
the  San  Andreas  Fault,  and  the  potential  for  such  a  disaster  becomes  more  real 
by  the  day. 

Earthquakes  have  always  been  one  of  nature's  most  mysterious  phenomena. 
It  has  only  been  within  this  century  that  we  have  really  understood  what  an 
earthquake  really  is,  and  only  for  ten  years  have  we  understood  why  earth- 
quakes occur  along  certain  belts  of  the  earth.  Now  we  are  beginning  to 
understand  why  certain  phenomena  occur  before  an  earthquake,  and  how  we 
can  use  these  phenomena  to  predict  when  and  where  an  earthquake  will  occur. 
But  the  science  of  earthquake  prediction  is  a  young  one,  which  most  experts 
believe  will  take  at  least  another  ten  years  to  perfect.  Earthquake  control  is  far 
in  the  future,  but  the  basic  principles  of  control  have  been  tried  with  some 
success. 

But  there  are  many  nonscientific  problems  associated  with  earthquake 
prediction,  especially  as  it  applies  to  the  United  States.  For  example,  imagine 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  /  7 


that  our  ability  to  predict  earthquakes  is  100  percent  successful,  and  it  has  beer 
determined  that  a  destructive  earthquake  will  occur  in  your  area  within  a  wee]1 
What  would  be  your  plan  of  action?  Mass  evacuation  sounds  like  a  first 
approach,  but  the  logistics  of  moving,  sheltering,  and  feeding  tens  of  thousands 
of  people  are  almost  prohibitive.  One  solution  used  during  the  recent  earth-   | 
quake  swarms  in  Italy  and  China  was  for  people  to  camp  in  the  streets  to  avoid 
the  collapse  of  buildings.  But  most  of  our  earthquake-prone  areas  are  major 
cities,  and  the  thought  of  the  entire  population  of  Los  Angeles  camping  in  tht 
streets  puts  a  damper  on  this  approach.  So  what  is  the  solution?  Obviously,    | 
long-term  predictions  must  be  made  so  that  we  can  identify  a  potential 
earthquake  hazard  years  in  advance,  with  plenty  of  time  to  prepare. 

What  is  an  earthquake? 

An  earthquake  is  an  irreversible  deformation  accompanied  by  a  sudden  stress 
drop  and  the  release  of  stored  elastic  strain  energy,  which  is  a  fancy  way  of 
saying  that  when  you  bend  a  material  (rock)  it  will  eventually  break.  For 
example,  take  a  pencil  in  both  hands  and  bend  it  in  the  middle.  The  wood  wil 
bend  so  far  and  then  will  break,  releasing  strain  energy  in  the  form  of  sound 
waves  which  travel  through  the  air  and  eventually  reach  your  ears.  The 
earthquake  process  is  much  the  same.  Forces  within  the  earth  will  tend  to 
deform  crustal  rocks,  and  when  the  forces  exceed  the  strength  of  the  material 
the  rock  breaks  sending  waves  throughout  the  earth  which  finally  reach  the 
surface  causing  the  destructive  ground  vibrations. 

This  is  the  classic  Elastic  Rebound  Theory,  first  proposed  by  Harry  Fieldin; 
Reid  in  1 9 1 0  after  observing  the  effects  of  the  San  Francisco  earthquake  of  i  90( 
Sixty-seven  years  later  the  theory  has  withstood  the  test  of  modem  seismolog) 
Although  the  earthquake  process  is  now  considered  to  be  much  more  compli 
cated,  all  the  models  are  based  on  the  mechanism  shown  in  Figure  1. 

Imagine  a  set  of  survey  lines  laid  out  perpendicular  to  a  fault  (a).  Tectonic 
forces  within  the  earth  will  tend  to  move  the  crust  on  either  side  of  the  fault  in 
opposite  directions,  but  the  fault  is  locked  due  to  friction  (b).  The  deformatioi 
continues  and  elastic  strain  energy  builds  up  until  the  breaking  strength  of  th 
material  is  reached,  and  cracking  begins  at  a  point  (c).  The  crack  propagates  | 
along  the  length  of  the  fault  producing  offsets  —  which  for  the  1906  San 
Francisco  earthquake  were  on  the  order  of  IS  feet  (d). 


(0 


r 

> 

J 

Figure  1 :  the  elastic  rebound 
theory 

'As  strains  always  precede  the  rupture  anc 
as  the  strains  are  sufficiently  great  to  be 
easily  detected  before  the  rupture  occurs, 
in  order  to  foresee  tectonic  earthquakes  i 
is  merely  necessary  to  devise  a  method  ol 
determining  the  existence  of  the  strains.'1 
H.F.  Reid  1910. 


WPI  Journal 


late  tectonics 

hat  causes  the  motion  that  leads  to  the  accumulation  of  strain  energy  which 
ill  eventually  be  released  in  the  form  of  an  earthquake?  Several  developments 
iring  the  1960's  lead  to  our  present  understanding  of  earthquakes  which  is  an 
tegral  part  of  the  theory  of  plate  tectonics. 

One  of  these  developments  was  the  worldwide  deployment  of  standard 
Ismographs  all  reporting  to  a  central  computing  station  for  the  accurate 
:ation  of  earthquakes.  After  a  few  years  of  data  collection,  the  map  shown  in 
gure  2  was  produced.  It  showed  that  earthquakes  were  not  randomly 
stributed  but  occurred  along  specific  belts  on  the  earth's  surface.  This  result, 
)ng  with  conclusions  drawn  from  other  areas  of  geophysics,  led  to  the 
lifying  theory  of  plate  tectonics  which  explains  sea  floor  spreading,  mountain 
ilding,  volcanism,  and  earthquake  activity. 

The  assumptions  of  this  theory  are  that  the  outer  shell  of  the  earth  is  broken 
to  about  a  dozen  rigid  plates  which  are  constantly  in  motion,  colliding  and 
bbing  against  one  another  producing  friction,  strain  accumulation,  and 
entually  earthquakes.  Thus  the  major  earthquake  belts  define  the  plate 
undaries,  whereas  earthquakes  occurring  within  the  plates  are  usually 
plained  as  being  due  to  the  distortion  of  the  plate  itself  as  it  interacts  with 
ighboring  plates. 

This  motion  of  the  plates  has  produced  great  changes  in  the  physical  make-up 
the  earth's  surface.  As  little  as  200  million  years  ago  (a  short  time  compared 
the  4.6  billion  year  history  of  the  earth)  the  continents  were  all  one,  the 
percontinent  we  call  Pangea.  Rifting  broke  the  continents  apart,  and  North 


Some  earthquake  statistics 

Throughout  the  world  there  are  approxi- 
mately: 

►  1,000,000  earthquakes  per  year,  most  of 
them  small; 

►  55  earthquakes  of  magn  itude  6  per  year, 
or  one  a  week  the  size  of  the  recent  Italy 
quake; 

►  12  earthquakes  of  magn  itude  7  per  year, 
or  one  a  month  the  size  of  the  recent 
Guatemala  quake;  and 

►  1  earthquake  per  year  of  magn  itude  8, 
the  size  of  the  recent  China  quake. 


i       10       ao       x       «       so 


70  00  93100110120130        14)150160170183       -170       -160       -ISO       -14)       -130       -133         110       -100         -93         -60         -70         -60         -50        -4)         -33        -3D        -10  0 


o       io       a>       so       «       so 


70  60  93100110120130         14)         1S01601701B3       -170        -lfiO        -ISO       -14)       -130       -120       -110       -100         -93  -60  70  -63  -SO         -4)  -3D  -.30  10  0 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1977/9 


Some  earthquake  terms 

Focus:  The  point  within  the  earth  de- 
scribed by  latitude,  longitude,  and  depth  at 
which  an  earthquake  occurs. 

Epicenter:  The  point  on  the  surface  of  the 
earth  directly  above  an  earthquake  focus. 

Magnitude:  An  instrumentally  determined 
parameter  related  to  the  maximum 
amplitude  of  seismic  waves  generated  by 
an  earthquake,  usually  measured  on  the 
open-ended  Richter  Scale. 

Intensity:  A  subjectively  determined 
parameter  related  to  the  effect  of  an  earth- 
quake on  people  and  structures,  usually 
measured  on  the  12  point  Modified  Mer- 
calli  Scale  (M.M.). 

Shallow  Quake:  An  earthquake  occurring 
at  a  depth  of  less  than  70  km. 

I  ntermediate  Depth:  An  earthquake  occur- 
ring at  a  depth  of  beween  71  and  300  km. 

Deep  Quake:  An  earthquake  occurring  at  a 
depth  of  between  301  and  700  km. 

Major  Quake:  An  earthquake  with  a  mag- 
nitude between  7.0  and  8.0. 

Great  Quake:  An  earthquake  of  magn  itude 
greater  than  8.0. 


and  South  America  drifted  away  from  Europe  and  Africa  forming  the  Atlantic 
Ocean.  The  process  continues  today,  with  the  Atlantic  widening  at  a  rate  of  tw 
inches  per  year.  Actually,  new  crustal  material  is  rising  along  the  middle  of  the 
Atlantic  and  pushing  the  continents  apart.  As  seen  from  Figure  2,  earthquake 
occur  up  and  down  this  Mid- Atlantic  Ridge,  and  with  each  shock,  new  materia' 
is  added  to  the  earth's  surface. 

Since  new  material  is  continually  being  added  but  the  earth  is  not  expanding 
to  provide  new  space  for  this  material,  other  areas  of  the  crust  must  be 
consumed  and  destroyed.  This  occurs  along  the  deep  trenches  surrounding  th 
Pacific  Ocean,  where  crustal  material  is  plunging  deep  into  the  earth.  This 
material  eventually  melts  and  rises  forming  great  chains  of  volcanic  islands  am 
mountain  belts.  Seventy-five  percent  of  all  earthquakes  occur  along  this  Pacific 
ring  of  fire.  Thus  as  the  Atlantic  grows  the  Pacific  shrinks. 

There  are  other  areas  where  the  plates  simply  slide  past  one  another,  but 
when  they  bind  in  selected  spots,  they  produce  strain  accumulation  and 
earthquakes.  One  of  these  areas  is  the  San  Andreas  Fault,  where  the  western 
portion  of  California  is  moving  north  with  respect  to  the  eastern  portion  of  th 
state.  At  the  present  rate  of  motion,  Los  Angeles  will  be  within  San  Francisco 
city  limits  in  30  million  years. 


How  safe  is  New  England? 

Although  there  are  no  plate  boundaries  in  New  England,  our  area  is  seismicall) 
active,  much  more  so  in  the  past  than  at  present.  There  were  large  earthquakes 
in  New  England  during  the  17th  and  18th  centuries,  notably  the  shock  on 
November  18,  1755,  which  did  extensive  damage  in  Boston. 

The  earthquake  was  actually  located  off  Cape  Ann  and  was  felt  from 
Annapolis  River,  Nova  Scotia  to  Chesapeake  Bay,  and  from  Lake  George,  Ne1 
York,  to  a  point  at  sea  200  miles  east  of  Cape  Ann .  . .  where  a  ship  actually 
touched  bottom.  At  Boston,  walls  and  chimneys  were  thrown  down  and  wave^ 
could  be  seen  rolling  along  the  surface  of  the  earth.  At  Pembroke  and  Scituatt 
Mass.,  small  chasms  were  broken  open  in  the  earth  through  which  fine  sand 
reached  the  surface. 

The  area  has  settled  down  in  recent  times.  Today  there  are  about  two 
earthquakes  per  month  in  New  England,  most  of  them  small,  while  about  half 
dozen  shocks  a  year  are  large  enough  to  be  felt  somewhere  within  our  six  states 

Does  this  mean  that  New  England  is  relatively  safe  from  the  risk  of 
earthquakes?  No! 

Earthquake  statistics  follow  rather  closely  the  laws  of  probability.  In  other 
words,  during  any  given  time  period  there  are  a  certain  number  of  earthquake 
of  a  certain  size.  This  means  that  we  may  develop  recursion  formulas  which 
predict  the  interval  of  time  between  earthquakes  of  any  given  size.  Using  the 
Statistics  for  New  England,  we  find  that  the  mean  recurrence  interval  for 
earthquakes  of  intensity  IX  or  larger  is  220  years.  Judging  from  the  history  of  th 
region,  it  seems  we  are  overdue  for  the  next  big  one. 

Obviously  the  statistics  represent  only  average  figures  which  are  by  no  mcai 
deterministic.  But  the  facts  are  that  New  England  has  had  large  earthquakes  i 
tin  past,  and  the  possibility  is  there  for  extensive  damage  in  the  future. 


•uary1977    WPI  Journal 


Besides  historical  seismicity,  one  fact  has  served  to  place  Boston  in  the  same 
leismic  risk  category  as  San  Francisco  and  Los  Angeles.  That  fact  is  filled  land, 
vluch  of  downtown  Boston  is  built  on  filled  land,  during  the  violent  shaking 
)f  a  large  earthquake,  filled  land  tends  to  flow  like  quicksand,  taking  with  it 
buildings  and  bridges.  Obviously  this  situation  cannot  be  corrected,  but  future 
milding  codes  should  require  a  firm  foundation  in  solid  rock.  Boston  is  not 
done,  for  many  cities  build  on  filled  land. 

New  England  has  no  official  earthquake  prediction  program,  although  the 
luthor  and  his  colleagues  are  conducting  research  into  this  problem.  As  it 
tands  now,  most  of  the  money  is  siphoned  to  the  west  coast,  which  has  about 
wenty  times  as  many  earthquakes  as  New  England. 

The  year  1976  will  be  remembered  for  many  things,  especially  the  great 
:arthquake  disasters.  The  United  States  has  not  been  on  the  list  of  great 
•arthquakes  up  to  this  writing.  With  future  developments  in  earthquake 
irediction,  we  can  hopefully  avoid  that  dubious  distinction. 


Earthquake  prediction 

Xiring  the  1970's,  seismology  teamed  up  with  the  laboratory  science  of  rock 
nechanics  and  earthquake  prediction  was  born.  During  compression  tests  with 
janite  it  was  observed  that,  when  the  applied  stress  reached  75  percent  of  the 
trength  of  the  material,  the  granite  suddenly  increased  in  volume  by  opening 
mall  cracks  throughout  the  material.  This  volumetric  increase  prior  to  failure 
s  known  as  dilatancy  and  is  responsible  for  many  changes  in  the  physical 
iroperties  of  rock  which  may  be  easily  detected  by  geophysical  methods.  For 
astance,  when  cracks  open  up  in  a  stressed  rock  the  velocity  of  sound  waves 
hrough  the  material  decreases.  This  can  be  easily  detected  on  seismograms, 
nd  it  was  utilized  to  predict  an  earthquake  in  the  Blue  Mountain  Lake  region  of 
<ew  York,  the  first  successful  prediction  made  in  the  United  States.  Other 
ffects  which  can  be  detected  are  an  increase  in  the  electrical  resistivity  of 
tressed  rock,  a  change  in  the  magnetic  properties,  and  an  anomalous  tilting  of 
'  he  ground  prior  to  a  quake.  Thus  the  seismologist  has  a  number  of  tools  with 
vhich  to  work  for  the  accurate  prediction  of  earthquakes. 

Why  then  are  earthquakes  not  predicted  routinely?  One  answer  lies  in  the 
.eismologist's  definition  of  a  prediction,  for  a  successful  prediction  must 
)inpoint  the  exact  time,  place,  and  size  of  an  earthquake.  So  far  we  have  been 
ible  to  narrow  down  the  time  and  place,  but  not  the  size.  To  overcome  this  we 
leed  a  more  complete  model  of  the  earthquake  process  to  understand  the 
elationship  between  the  physical  changes  we  see  prior  to  a  shock  and  the  shock 
tself .  This  has  to  be  done  in  the  laboratory  and  is  just  a  matter  of  time.  Another 
jroblem  is  manpower,  for  the  United  States  has  fewer  than  a  thousand 
seismologists.  Compare  this  figure  to  the  tens  of  thousands  of  scientists 
working  on  environmental  problems  or  the  space  program.  And  of  course 
money  is  a  problem.  Seismometers,  tiltmeters,  and  electrical  resistivity 
surveys  are  expensive,  and  the  allotment  of  the  United  States  Geological 
Survey  to  earthquake  prediction  is  less  than  1  percent  of  its  total  budget.  But 
lelp  may  be  on  the  way,  for  the  Earthquake  Prediction  Act  will  soon  await 
;  Congressional  approval. 

Unfortunately  our  ability  to  predict  earthquakes  is  growing  faster  than  the 


Some  of  the  larger  New  England 

earthquakes 

(intensities  on  the  l-XII  M.M. 

scale) 

June  11, 1638 

St.  Lawrence  Valley,  Canada 
intensity  X 

November  9,  1727 

Newbury,  Mass. 
intensity  IX 

June  14, 1744 

off  Cape  Ann,  Mass. 
intensity  VIII 

November  18, 1755 

off  Cape  Ann,  Mass. 
intensity  IX 

October  5, 1817 

Woburn,  Mass. 
intensity  VIM 

November  23, 1884 

southern  New  Hampshire 
intensity  VI 

October  16, 1963 

Massachusetts  Bay 
intensity  VI 

July  1,1967 

Augusta,  Maine 
intensity  VI 

June  15, 1973 

Maine-Quebec  border 
intensity  VI 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  / 1 1 


Ten  of  the  worlds  most 
destructive  earthquakes 

January  23.  1556 
Shansi.  China 

DO  people  killed 

January  9.  1693 

60.000  people  killed 

December  30.  1730 
Hokka  da  Japan 
137.000  people  killed 

1737 

Calcutta.  India 
300.000  people  killed 

November  1.  1755 
Lisbon.  Portugal 
60.000  people  killed 

December  28.  1908 
Messina.  Italy 
83.000  people  killed 

December  16.  1920 

j,  China 
100.000  people  - 

September  1.1923 
Tokyo.  Japan 
99.330  people  killed 

May  22.  1927 

i   China 
200.000  people  killed 

July  27.  1976 

-una 
600.0007  people  kiled 


public  would  like.  After  the  San  Francisco  earthquake  of  1906  government 
officials  encouraged  the  public  to  forget  about  the  danger  of  earthquakes  as  an 
aid  to  the  tast  recovery  of  the  city,  a  policy  which  has  been  criticized  by  the 

Seismological  Society  of  America  ever  since  its  founding  in  L910.  Surprisingly 
few  residents  of  California  care  about  the  threat  from  earthquakes  and  prefer  trj 

ignore  earthquake  warnings.  This  has  been  the  great  obstacle  of  the  seis- 
mologist. Public  education  about  earthquakes  is  slowly  removing  this  obstacle 

As  discussed  above,  there  are  many  social  and  economic  problems  associate 
with  earthquake  prediction.  These  problems  are  magnified  when  the  predrctio 
involves  a  technological  society,  tor  it  is  impossible  simplv  to  close  down  a  cit\ 
and  wait  out  the  shock.  And  who  should  announce  the  warning-  This  question 
is  now  being  pondered  bv  government  officials,  and  at  present  the  only  off icia 
warnings  can  come  from  the  federal  government.  Unfortunately  the  answers 
to  the  seismologist  s  technical  problems  are  coming  taster  than  the  answers  t 
the  social  problems  of  earthquake  prediction. 

One  of  those  answers  which  is  receiving  more  and  more  attention,  it  that  wj 
must  learn  to  live  with  earthquakes.  This  involves  long-term  predictions  on  th 
order  of  five  vears  or  more,  coupled  with  definite  actions  bv  government 
officials  to  insure  the  saretv  of  the  public.  Stricter  building  codes  are  among  the 
answers,  but  again  we  run  into  the  same  economic  problems  brought  about  b 
strict  environmental  codes.  Cenainlv  there  are  many  precautions  which  may 
be  taken  bv  local  officials,  such  as  the  lowering  of  reservoir  levels,  and  storage  *. 
emergency  vehicles  out  of  doors  where  thev  are  safe  from  building  collapse  a 
problem  encountered  during  the  San  Fernando  quake  of  197 1.  And  of  course  wi 
need  fast  communication,  so  that  a  prediction  made  on  a  Fndav  afternoon  wiJI 
not  sit  on  a  government  officials  desk  until  the  following  Monday. 

There  is  one  more  problem  which  plagues  us:  our  abilitv  to  predict 
earthquakes  will  not  be  100  percent  successful  for  at  least  ten  vears.  In  the 
meantime,  will  the  public  be  willing  to  accept  a  tew  false  alarms?  And  if  not. 
will  thev  listen  to  an  earthquake  warning  when  we  are  certain  a  disaster  is 
imminent I  Or  should  we  iust  withhold  earthquake  information  until  the 
methods  of  prediction  are  flawless-  One  seismologist  recently  felt  that  the 
public  had  a  right  to  know  the  evidence  so  he  publicly  announced  the 
conclusions  of  his  research,  which  showed  that  a  large  quake  would  occur  nort 
of  Los  Angeles  within  ten  months.  A  few  davs  later  the  City  Council  of  L>> 

.  I  es  presented  him  with  a  lawsuit  charging  that  his  prediction  had  low  ere*, 
real  estate  values  in  the  city. 

This  is  the  dilemma  of  the  present-dav  seismologist.  Do  we  reallv  wm 
know  when  an  earthquake  will  occur' 


12   F*r  WW  Journal 


It  pays  to 
enroll  in  AFROTC 


The  Air  Force  needs  commissioned  officers  in 
the  science  and  engineering  areas.  Many  will  enter 
active  duty  through  Air  Force  ROTC. 

And  you  don't  have  to  wait  for  graduation  to  re- 
ceive financial  help.  You  can  be  paid  as  you  earn 
your  college  degree. 

Check  the  list  of  college  majors.  If  yours  is  on 
the  list,  you  could  qualify  for  either  a  2  or  3-year 
AFROTC  scholarship  that  includes  full 
tuition,  books,  all  lab  fees  and  $100  a 
month,  tax  free.  Even  without  the 
scholarship  you  can  get  excellent 
Air  Force  ROTC  training  and  the 
$100  a  month  tax-free  allowance  during 
the  last  two  years  of  college. 

Upon  graduation,  you  will  be 
commissioned  as  an  Air  Force  Reserve 
Officer  and  may  be  selected  for  extended  active 
duty.  As  an  active  duty  officer  you  will  have  the 
opportunity  for  a  challenging,  technical,  responsi- 
ble job.  There  is  also  a  chance  for  advanced  education 
in  your  chosen  field.  And  the  pay  and  related  bene- 
fits are  excellent.  You'll  start  with  good  pay  and 
allowances;  academic  and  technical  training  oppor- 
tunities; 30  days  of  paid  vacation  each  year;  free 


Full  Tuition 

Lab  Fees 
$100  a  month 


medical  and  dental  care;  recreational  facilities;  low 
cost  insurance;  commissary  and  exchange  privileges; 
and  more  advantages. 

In  return  for  the  AFROTC  scholarship  or  train- 
ing, you  are  expected  to  maintain  a  high  level  of 
scholastic  excellence  and  agree  to  remain  on  active 
duty  with  the  Air  Force  for  a  minimum  of  four  years. 
A  limited  active-duty  opportunity  is  also  there 
for  highly  qualified  non-Air  Force  ROTC 
graduates.  Graduates  whose  degree  ap- 
pears on  the  list  may  apply  for  officer 
training.  Successful  applicants  will  at- 
tend a  12-week  Officer  Training  School 
located  in  San  Antonio,  Texas.  Gradu- 
ates of  the  school  receive  an  Air  Force 
commission  and  are  on  the  way  to  chal- 
lenging jobs  as  Air  Force  officers. 
Check  the  list  again  and  for  more  information 
visit  your  campus  Air  Force  ROTC  representative  or 
your  nearest  Air  Force  recruiter.  For  more  informa- 
tion or  the  name  of  an  ROTC  representative  or  Air 
Force  recruiter  send  in  the  coupon  or  call  toll  free: 
800-447-4700  (in  Illinois:  800-322-4400).  When  call- 
ing please  specify  your  interest  either  in  Air  Force 
ROTC  or  Officer  Training  School. 


If  your  major  is  listed  here,  it  could  be  worth  a  lot  to  you. 


Aeronautical  Engineering 

Aerospace  Engineering 

Architecture 

Architectural  Engineering 

Astronautical  Engineering 

Chemical  Engineering 

Chemistry 

Civil  Engineering 

Computer  Technology/Science 

Electrical  Engineering 

General  Engineering 

Industrial  Engineering 

Mathematics 

Mechanical  Engineering 

Meteorology 

Nuclear  Engineering 

Physics 

Space  Physics  Engineering 


AIR  FORCE  OPPORTUNITIES  CENTER  2-EC-27 

P.O.  BOX  AF 
PEORIA,  IL  61614 

I  would  like  more  information  on  opportunities  for  Science 
and  Engineeringstudents  and  graduates.  I  am  interested  in 
(check  one)  Air  Force  ROTC .  Air  Force  Officer  Train- 
ing School . 


Name. 


Address. 
City 


(Please  Print) 


.Sex DM    DF 


.State_ 


_ZIP_ 


Date  of  Birth. 


JPhone  number_ 


(Furnish  college  or  high  school  information.) 
College Major Graduation  date- 


High  School. 


.Graduation  date_ 


Air  Force  ROTC- Gateway  to  a  great  way  of  life 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are  based 
was  all  received  by  the  Alumni  Association 
before  January  75,  when  it  was  compiled  for 
publication.  Information  received  after  that 
date  will  be  used  in  future  issues  of  the  WPI 
Journal. 


1903 


Joseph    Berger  currently   lives   at   St.    Edward 
Home  in  Akron,  Ohio.  He  was  97  in  April. 


1909 

Charles  Coldthwait  has  been  presented  with  a 
plaque  in  recognition  of  his  over  50  years  of 
service  as  an  active  member  of  the  Society  of 
Dyers  and  Colourists.  A  charter  member  of 
AATCC,  he  was  the  1962  recipient  of  the  Olney 
Medal  for  outstanding  contributions  to  textile 
chemistry.  In  1925  he  received  a  fellowship  to 
the  Mellon  Institute  where  he  specialized  in 
experimental  mercerizine  of  cotton 

He  joined  the  U.S.  Department  of  Agricul- 
ture's Southern  Regional  Research  Center  in 
1 941  and  was  in  charge  of  a  number  of  war-time 
projects,  including  development  of  the  semi- 
elastic  cotton  gauze  bandage  At  retirement  he 
took  a  research  post  at  North  Carolina  State 
where  he  was  awarded  an  honorary  Doctor  of 
Science  degree  in  1 965 


1914 


Franklin  Gurley  is  chairman  of  the  board  at  W.F. 
Mfg  Co  ,  Inc  .  Buffalo,  N  Y 


1917 


Clendon  Pomeroy  was  the  only  member  present 
,it  the  November  meeting  of  the  181 -year-old 
Worcester  Association  of  Mutual  Aid  in  Detect- 
ing Thieves,  so  he  promptly  called  the  meeting  to 
•lected  himself  president,  secretary  and 
treasurer,  then  voted  to  disband  the  association 
Thf  organization  was  founded  in  1795  "to 
thieves  for  stealing  horses",  and  horse 
stealing  is  a  rarity  in  Worcestei  these  days  This 
wasn<  •  the  real  reason  for  disbanding 

the  group  The  real  reason  was  financial 


About  $3,100  remained  in  the  club  bank 
accounts  (inactive  for  over  ten  years)  and  the 
banks  indicated  that  the  money  would  be  turned 
over  to  the  state  within  60  days,  unless  they 
were  otherwise  notified. 

Norman  Wood,  son  of  the  late  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  association,  contacted  three 
unofficial  out-of-town  members  and  all  agreed 
to  let  Mr.  Pomeroy,  as  the  only  official  local 
member,  hold  the  final  meeting  and  dissolve  the 
group. 

And  the  $3,100?  It  was  "unanimously"  voted 
to  turn  the  full  amount  over  to  the  American 
Antiquarian  Society. 

Mr.  Pomeroy  works  part  time  as  treasurer  of 
Tainor  Tech  Corp.,  Northbridge.  His  daughter- 
in-law,  Mrs.  Seward  Pomeroy,  is  a  circulation 
associate  at  WPI 's  Gordon  Library. 


1926 


Ken  Archibald  writes  that  he's  "only  74  years  of 
age"  and  indicates  that  he  still  has  a  busy 
schedule.  For  instance,  he  is  presently  executive 
vice  president  of  the  Springfield  (Vt.)  Chamber 
of  Commerce;  president  of  the  Vermont  Associ- 
ation of  Chamber  Executives;  a  director  of  the 
Vermont  State  Chamber  of  Commerce  (1000 
members);  chairman  of  the  committee  for  Indus- 
trial Prospects  for  the  Third  Green  Mountain 
Industrial  Tour  in  1977,  and  president  of  the 
Lake  Rescue  Association  of  Ludlow,  Vt.  He  has 
also  had  30  years  of  perfect  attendance  at 
Rotary. 


1928 


Arthur  Chavoor  was  honored  at  a  testimonial 
dinner  sponsored  by  the  Beth  Nahreen  Assyrian 
American  Organization  of  Massachusetts  last 
December  in  Holden.  He  was  presented  with  an 
engraved  plaque  in  recognition  of  outstanding 
contributions  and  leadership.  A  retired  profes- 
sional civil  engineer  and  land  surveyor  in  Mas- 
sachusetts, he  had  been  associate  civil  engineer 
and  assistant  director  of  engineering  in  the 
MDC's  (Boston)  Sewerage  Division. 

Upon  retirement,  he  was  cited  for  his  41  years 
of  service  with  the  Commission.  He  was  on  the 
Board  of  Governors  and  was  voted  Life  Member 
of  the  Society  of  Massachusetts  State  Engineers. 
He  was  also  a  cofounder  and  past  president  of 
the  United  Assyrian  Association  of  Mas- 
sachusetts, Inc 


1932 


William  Cullen  has  retired  as  manager  of  cus- 
tomer services  at  Enthone,  Incorporated,  New 
Haven,  Conn  The  firm  manufactures  metal 
finishing  supplies.  Previously  he  was  with  Dorset 
Rex  Division,  Risdon  Manufacturing  Co.,  Stanley 
Works,  and  Tuttle  and  Bailey,  Incorporated,  in 
New  Britain,  Conn  .  Constantine  Orfanos 
recently  retired  as  project  manager  of  the  Inter- 
national Projects  Division  of  General  Electric  Co. 
in  New  York  City.  He  has  been  named  a  life 
member  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and  Elec- 
tronics Engineers,  "a  status  reserved  for  those 
who  have  had  a  great  deal  of  experience  in  the 
profession  and  a  long  association  with  the  IEEE  " 
In  June  he  and  his  wife  attended  their  daugh- 
ter Elaine's  graduation  at  the  University  of  San 
Francisco,  where  she  earned  her  doctor  of  juris- 
prudence degree  "cum  laude  "  Earlier,  as  a 
member  of  Yale's  first  coeducational  class,  she 
had  also  graduated  "cum  laude  "  She  is  now 
practicing  corporate  law  in  San  Francisco. 


Son  Jonathan,  a  graduate  of  Rutgers,  is  enl 
gaged  in  his  lithographic  and  printing  business  ii  I 
Sacramento.  Daughter  Demetra  is  in  her  las  I 
year  as  an  arts  major  at  the  City  College  of  Sat  I 
Francisco.  The  senior  Orfanos  plan  to  settle  it  j 
Sacramento  to  be  near  their  family. 

1935 

Leonard  Humphrey  who  started  with  Buffalc 
Forge  in  1936,  retired  in  November.  In  1939  hi  i 
was  assigned  to  the  firm's  Federal  &  Marine  j 
Office  in  Washington,   DC.   In   1956  he  wa'  ' 
named  assistant  manager  of  that  office  anc 
manager  in  1 967.  He  retired  as  manager. 

Under  his  direction  in  Washington,  the  com 
pany  enjoyed  continuing  Navy  and  Marine  busi 
ness  for  fans  and  pumps.  Also,  there  was  A 
build-up  in  commerical  business,  primarily  in  th< 
area  of  nuclear  products.  "Hump"  retired  ir 
excellent  health  and  plans  to  stay  on  at  his  hom< 
in  Chevy  Chase,  Md.,  with  wife  Louise. 


1936 


Robert  Fowler,  Jr.  retired  February  1st  afte 
completing  40  years  of  service  with  New  Eng 
land  Electric  System.  He  started  as  a  studen 
engineer  at  Narragansett  Electric  Co.  in  Provi 
dence.  He  was  later  transferred  to  New  Englanc 
Power  Service  Co.  in  Boston,  then  to  Nev 
England  Power  Co.,  Worcester,  where  he  servet 
as  technical  assistant. 

After  temporary  assignments  in  Boston  doia 
transmission  design  work,  and  in  Westbon 
working  on  system  standards,  he  spent  his  re 
cent  years  in  Worcester  as  senior  engineer  fo 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  His  fellow  worker 
honored  him  at  a  party  held  January  20th 
William  Paul  House  in  Holden. 

1938 

Allen  Deschere  retired  last  September  from 
Rohm  and  Haas  Company.  He  has  started  a  nev 
"career' '  as  automated  systems  coordinator  wit 
the  Division  for  the  Blind  and  Physically  Hand- 
icapped in  the  Library  of  Congress.  He  writes: 
"I'm  having  a  ball!"       A.  George  Mallis 
currently  serves  as  a  member  of  the  Board  of 
Registration  for  Professional  Engineers  and  Lan 
Surveyors  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Mas- 
sachusetts. His  book,  Morgan  and  Peace  Silver 
Dollars,  The  Comprehensive  Catalogue  and  Er 
cyclopedia  of  United  States  Morgan  and  Peact 
Silver  Dollars,  which  he  wrote  with  Leroy  Van 
Allen,  has  just  been  published  in  its  second 
edition.  . . .  R&RPIumbing  Supply  Corp.,  Henn 
Ritz,  president,  celebrated  its  71  st  anniversary 
by  opening  a  new  1 5,000  square  foot  ware- 
house and  completing  an  extensive  renovatior 
of  its  Worcester- based  offices  and  showroom 
last  spring.  Over  600  guests  attended  the  opei 
house  marking  the  anniversary. 


1939 


Frank  Abbott  has  retired  as  production  manag 
at  Cincinnati  Milacron.  He  is  presently  locatedi 
Saxtons  River,  Vermont.  .  .  .  Bob  Martin,  a 
project  manager  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft, 
currently  based  in  Brussels,  Belgium  for  a  two  I 
three-year  stint 


1941 


Leslie  Harding  is  with  USPS,  in  Atlanta,  Geo 
gia. 


M  WPI  Journal 


1942 


1950 


tobert  Grant  serves  as  chairman  of  the  board  at 
jrant  Investment  Corp.  in  Newport  Beach, 
Zalifornia. 


1943 


ackson  Durkee  left  Bethlehem  Steel  Corpora- 
ion's  fabricated  steel  construction  division, 
vhere  he  was  chief  bridge  engineer,  in  January 
)f  last  year.  In  the  spring  he  served  as  visiting 
)rofessor  of  structural  engineering  at  Cornell 
Jniversity.  During  the  summer  he  and  Marian 
'acationed  in  St.  Andrews,  Scotland,  and  then 
vent  to  Japan  in  September  for  the  10th  Con- 
fess of  the  International  Association  for  Bridge 
ind  Structural  Engineering.  Jack  is  now  a  consult- 
ng  structural  engineer  specializing  in  bridge- 
vork  fabrication  and  erection  problems,  with  an 
iffice  in  Bethlehem,  Pa. 


1944 


Ufred  Larkin,  president  of  Rexnord  Interna- 
ional,  Inc.,  has  been  elected  a  corporate  officer 
>f  Rexnord,  Inc.,  and  named  corporate  vice 
■resident,  international.  He  began  work  at  Rex- 
iord  in  1 947  as  a  student  engineering  trainee 
nd  held  supervisory  positions  with  Rexnord's 
toller  Chain  Division  in  Worcester  and 
•pringfield.  Larkin's  new  corporate  position  was 
nade  to  centralize  responsibility  for  the  com- 
)any's  world  wide  operations. 

1945 

)r.  Ernest  Kretzmer  has  been  elected  a  fellow  of 
EEE  in  recognition  of  his  contributions  to  the 
nderstanding  of  video  signal  transmission  and 
or  leadership  in  the  development  of  data  com- 
lunication  systems.  He  is  director  of  the  data 
ommunications  lab.  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs, 
tolmdel,  N.J. .  .  .  Roger  N.  Perry  Jr.,  director  of 
■ublic  relations  at  WPI,  has  retired  as  a  com- 
lander  in  the  U.S.  Navy  Reserve  following  27 
ears  of  service. 


1947 


radical  Invention,  a  new  book  written  by 
;obert  Yereance,  is  designed  to  help  the 
«)u Id-be  inventor  through  the  mental  and  phys- 
:al  steps  necessary  to  take  along  the  pathway  to 
n  invention.  Suggestions  for  selling  the  inven- 
ion  are  discussed,  as  well  as  methods  of  protec- 
ion.  The  book's  104  pages  are  full  of  interesting 
:nd  useful  information. 

Yereance,  a  professional  engineer,  holds  a 
lumber  of  U.S.  and  foreign  patents.  After  25 
'ears  of  research,  he  formed  his  own  company, 
r"deas,  to  provide  courses  to  upgrade  the  idea- 
generation  capability  of  industrial  researchers 
ind  to  aid  in  the  development  and  evaluation  of 
:oncepts  and  new  products.  He  has  served  as  a 
rontributing  editor  to  Instruments  and  Controls 
magazine  and  has  also  written  several  novels, 
ihort  stories  and  poems. 


1949 


Robert  Miller  is  now  with  Central  Vermont 
'ublic  Service  Corp.  and  writes  that  he  is  "Hap- 
>ily"  settled  in  Rutland. 


George  Barna  was  recently  appointed  manager 
of  the  TIROS  Program  for  RCA  Astro  Electronics, 
Princeton,  N.J.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the 
design  and  fabrication  of  the  improved  TIROS 
operational  system  satellites  and  for  develop- 
ment of  the  next  generation  of  TIROS-N  opera- 
tional environmental  spacecraft. 

Previously,  as  manager  of  the  Standard 
Spacecraft  Group  at  RCA,  he  supervised  the 
design,  engineering,  assembly,  and  test  of  the 
standard  spacecraft.  Barna,  who  joined  RCA  in 
1961,  is  an  associate  fellow  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Aeronautics. 

1951 

Capt.  Charles  Darrell.USN,  is  currently  com- 
manding officer  of  the  Naval  Ocean  Research 
and  Development  Activity  at  Bay  St.  Louis,  Mis- 
sissippi. .  .  .  Duncan  Munro,  superintendent  of 
Mount  Auburn  Cemetery  in  Cambridge,  Mass., 
was  elected  president  of  the  American  Cemetery 
Association  in  November  during  the  organiza- 
tion's convention  in  San  Antonio,  Texas.  He  has 
served  as  vice  president,  secretary,  and  a 
member  of  the  board  of  directors,  as  well  as 
acting  president  of  the  group.  A  recognized 
authority  in  cemetery  operations  and  manage- 
ment, hehaswritten  numerous articlesfor ceme- 
tery technical  journals  and  chaired  a  number  of 
conferences  for  the  industry. 


1952 


Robert  Cushman  is  a  programmer  at  Jones  & 
Lamson,  Springfield,  Vermont. 


1953 


Perini  Corporation,  Framingham,  Mass.,  has  an- 
nounced the  appointment  of  David  Holmes  as 
assistant  manager  of  operation.  Since  1 959, 
when  he  joined  the  company,  Holmes  has 
supervised  construction  of  many  commercial 
and  industrial  buildings.  Presently,  he  is  project 
manager  for  the  new  Federal  Reserve  Bank 
building  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Eugene  Rubin  has  been 
re-efected  to  the  executive  board  of  the  National 
Federation  of  Temple  Brotherhoods-Jewish 
Chautauqua  Society  for  a  two-year  term.  The 
NFTB  is  comprised  of  500  Reform  Temple 
Brotherhoods,  while  the  Chautauqua  Society 
helps  promote  interfaith  understanding.  Rubin, 
an  attorney,  is  a  member  of  the  Massachusetts 
Bar  Association  and  the  Massachusetts  Academy 
of  Trial  Attorneys. 


1954 


Currently  Elmer  Corujo  holds  the  post  of  sales 
manager  at  Harris  Corp. .  .  .  Joachim  Herz 
presently  serves  as  vice  president  of  marketing 
for  the  components  group  of  Siemens  Corpora- 
tion, with  headquarters  in  Iselin,  N.J. .  .  .  David 
Hoyle  wroce  "Designing  for  pH  Control"  which 
appeared  in  the  November  issue  of  Chemical 
Engineering.  He  is  a  senior  systems  design  en- 
gineer at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co.,  where  he  is 
responsible  for  design  of  advanced  control  sys- 
tems from  concept  to  startup.  Earlier  he  was 
concerned  with  panel  design  and  chromato- 
graph  application  and  development.  He  joined 
the  firm  in  1959,  having  previously  worked  for 
Union  Carbide  Corp. 


Roy  Hayward  was  recently  named  the  top 
"barbershopperof  the  year"  in  the  Northeast 
District.  For  1 3  years  he  has  been  a  member  of 
the  Worcester  Chapter,  SPEBSQSA,  the  barber- 
shop singers.  In  January,  as  commission  exhibit 
coordinator  for  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products, 
Inc.,  Worcester,  he  accepted  the  Professional 
Convention  Management  Association's  Award 
for  the  most  educational  convention  exhibit  to 
be  produced  by  a  member  of  the  health  care 
industry  during  the  1976  convention  season. 


1958 


Donald  Bean  holds  the  position  of  vice  president 
and  general  manager  at  Kieley  &  Mueller,  Inc., 

Middletown,  N.Y Frank  Chin  has  been 

named  a  senior  structural  engineer  at  Stone  & 
Webster.  He  became  associated  with  the  com- 
pany 14  years  ago  and  has  been  lead  structural 
engineer  for  a  nuclear  power  plant  project.  A 
registered  professional  engineer,  he  is  a  member 
of  ASCE  and  Chi  Epsilon. 


1959 


Dr.  Donald  Kirk  is  the  new  chairman  of  the 
electrical  engineering  department  at  the  Naval 
Postgraduate  School  in  Monterey,  Calif.  The 
Postgraduate  School's  mission  is  to  provide 
graduate  education  for  military  officers  of  the 
United  States  and  allied  nations,  and  for  a  limited 
number  of  civilian  employees  of  the  federal 
government.  The  Kirks  and  three  daughters, 
Kara,  13,  Valerie,  10,  and  Dana,  8,  liveinCarmel. 


1960 


John  Kirkpatrick  is  a  project  leader  in  the  LRSP 

division  at  BCA-NABSP  in  Chicago,  Illinois 

Irwin  Jacobs,  product  group  manager  in  the 
business  product  group  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.,  has  been  appointed  a 
vice  president  at  the  corporation.  He  joined  the 
firm  as  an  applications  engineer  in  1 965  and  has 
held  numerous  positions  at  district  and  regional 
sales  management  levels.  He  became  business 
product  line  manager  in  1973  and  group  man- 
ager two  years  ago. 

1961 

Arthur  Greene  was  recently  appointed  assistant 
director  for  program  planning  at  Fermi  National 
Accelerator  Laboratory,  Batavia,  III.  The  program 
planning  office  sets  schedules  for  the  installation 
and  operation  of  experiments  that  have  been 
approved  to  run  at  Fermilab.  Dr.  Greene  joined 
the  firm  in  1 972.  Previously  he  was  with  Ar- 
gonne  National  Laboratory.  ...  Dr.  Robert 
Seamon  has  just  received  a  two-year  appoint- 
ment to  the  staff  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  in  Vienna.  A  staff  scientist  at  the 
Los  Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory  in  New  Mexico, 
Dr.  Seamon  is  the  only  American  scientist  ap- 
pointed to  the  agency  this  year.  About  100 
nations  exchange  information  on  the  peaceful 
use  of  the  atom  through  the  agency  which  is 
considered  as  a  "United  Nations"  for  physicists 
and  nuclear  engineers.  An  accomplished  musi- 
cian and  organist,  as  well  as  a  scientist,  Dr. 
Seamon  is  eagerly  looking  forward  to  his  stay  in 
music-loving  Vienna. 


WPI  Journal /February  1977/15 


WPI's  own  Kennedy  clan 

WPI's  own  "Kennedy  clan"  is  doing 
nicely,  thank  you. 

Francis  E.  Kennedy.  '30,  who  started 
the  family  trek  to  WPI,  runs  Kennedy  Die 
Castings,  Inc.,  Worcester,  along  with  son 
Paul.  '68.  Francis  is  the  president  and 
owner  of  the  company,  while  Paul  serves 
as  sales  manager. 

Son  Richaniy(-)5  has  been  named  direc- 
tor of  computer  systems  and  services  at 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  Until  his  recent 
appointment,  he  was  a  marketing  consul- 
tant for  IBM.  In  his  new  position,  he  will 
be  responsible  for  management  and  coor- 
dination of  Norton  computer  related  ac- 
tivities worldwide,  with  primary  respon- 
sibility tor  North  American  computer 
operations. 

Francis  Jr.,  '63,  assistant  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  Dartmouth 
College,  was  named  the  first  recipient  of 
ASME's  Burt  L.  Newkirk  Tnbology 
Award  last  fall.  Dr.  Kennedy  was  cited  for 
"his  significant  contnbutions  to  the  field 
of  tribology  [fluid  friction)  as  established 
by  his  research  and  by  technical  papers  in 
the  tnbology  field." 


1962 

William  Properzio  is  division  director  of  training 
and  medical  applications  at  the  Bureau  of 
Radiological  Health,  HEW,  Rockville,  Md. 


1963 


"Peter"  Shah  was  recently  promoted  to  the 
position  of  manager  of  planning  for  the  Science 
Products  Division  of  Corning  Glass  Works,  a 
position  which  includes  worldwide  respon- 
sibilities He  has  been  with  Corning  since  1972, 
when  he  received  his  MBA  from  Boston  Univer- 
sity 

Robert  Magnant's  book,  Domestic  Satellite, 
which  he  wrote  while  doing  graduate  research 
under  a  government  fellowship  at  the  University 
of  Colorado,  will  be  published  in  a  slightly  re- 
vised version  this  March  by  Westview  Press  of 
Boulder  The  book  shows  how  difficult  and 
complex  the  policy-making  process  is  in  today's 
technology-driven  environment.  In  his  present 
position  as  chief  engineer  for  U.S.  Army  Com- 
munications at  Ft  Ritchie,  Md.,  Magnant  is 
planning  the  technical  future  of  the  communica  - 
tion  facilities  for  Army  posts  and  installations 
within  the  U.S. 


1964 


Dennis  Briefer,  chief  engineer  with  Setra  Sys- 
tem, Natick,  Mass ,  has  been  appointed  vice 

•  nt  of  engineering  Formerly  with  Rayth- 
eon's missile  system  division,  he  also  served  with 
Memory  Technology,  Inc  He  is  a  member  of 
IEEE         James  Kaput  is  a  visiting  professor  of 
mathematics  for  College  IV  of  Grand  Valley 

■.in  Allendale,  Michigan  In  June  he 
will  return  to  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Uni- 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,   Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


iamesbury 

0    I  manufacturers  of 

^-^  Double-Seal  ®  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere®  Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester.  Mass.  01605 


•  70  presses,  capacities  of  10  to  545  tons. 
•  Quality  control  conforms  to  Mil.  Spec. 
Mil-  Q  -  9858A. 
•  Controlled  atmosphere 

annealing  furnace. 
mmm  •   Complete  engineering 

and  tool  room  depart- 
ments. 

Send  for  facilities  brochure 
or  call  (617)  366-4472. 

atktrom 

PRESSED  METAL  CO.,  INC/55  FISHER  ST.,  WESTB0R0,  MA  01581 


nary  1977    WPI  Journal 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1 976/ : 


. . .  and  then  you  accept  your  best  offer 
and  embark  on  a  dignified  career. 


That  used  to  be  the  general  idea. 

Today  college  may  have  to  be  its  own  reward, 
distantly  related,  if  at  all,  to  the  problem  of 
earning  a  living. 

There  are  exceptions,  and  as  an  engineering 
graduate  you  are  a  prime  exception. 

In  the  eyes  of  the  kind  of  people  who  run 
outfits  like  Kodak,  a  B.S.  or  M.S.  in 
engineering  marks  you  as  a  potential 
successor  of  theirs. 

Your  attractiveness  depends  on  the  fact  that 
your  engineering  faculty,  despite  its  apparent 
friendliness,  is  out  to  make  things  as  tough  as 
they  can  for  you.  Yet  you  SURVIVE! 

When  the  business  cycle  is  up,  bare  survival 


in  a  rugged  engineering  curriculum  may  prove 
sufficiently  impressive.  When  it's  down,  the 
bare  survivors  may  find  the  pickings  a  little 
better  than  their  less  technically  minded  friends 
and  a  little  slimmer  than  they  are  for  the 
hotshot  who  keeps  a  3.9  GPA  while  running 
a  fleet  of  garbage  trucks  in  order  to  support 
honorable  parents. 

If  we  don't  snare  that  character,  it's  probably 
because  an  employer  almost  as  desirable  as 
we  are  got  there  first. 

To  prevent  that,  waste  no  time  before 
dropping  a  note  to  Kodak,  Business  and 
Technical  Personnel,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14650. 


! 


An  equal-opportunity  employer  (f/m)  manufacturing  photographic  products, 

fibers,  plastics,  and  chemicals,  with  plants  in  Rochester,  N.Y., 

Kingsport,  Tenn.,  Windsor,  Colo.,  Longview,  Tex.,  and  Batesville,  Ark. 


Leading  the  way  in  metalworking 
technology  in  theWestern  Hemisphere  with 
he  most  complete  rangeof  facilities 

in  the  forging  industry  -that's  I  \  f  J IAIYMAIM 

GORDON 


r/j 


965 


1968 


Married:  Stephen  L.  Cloues  to  Carolyn  Pinter 
i  December  18,  1976.  The  groom  will  receive 
s  master's  in  religious  education  from  South- 
estern  Baptist  Seminary  in  December. 
Richard  Moore  serves  as  general  manager  at 
oore  Sales  Co.,  Dennisport,  Mass.  .  .  .  Richard 
Ison,  vice  president  of  National  Development 
Drp.  of  Pittsburgh,  is  currently  responsible  for  a 
ix  of  1 3  real  estate  projects  owned  by  the  firm 
Florida.  His  headquarters  are  in  Bradenton. 
irmerly  he  was  vice  president  of  Boise  Cas- 
de's  eastern  operations.  .  .  .  Everett  Sinclair, 
V\,  has  been  named  technical  director  of  Nor- 
n  Company's  Grinding  Wheel  Division.  Since 
ning  the  firm  in  1939,  he  has  held  several 
search  and  engineering  positions.  In  his  new 
b  he  will  be  responsible  for  technical  coordina- 
m  between  domestic  and  international  grind- 
l  wheel  business  groups.  He  will  manage  the 
/ision's  process  information,  product  quality, 
d  product  safety  functions.  He  is  a  registered 
ofessional  engineer. 

Steven  Sutker  has  joined  computer  manufac- 
rer  Interdata,  Inc.  asoriginal equipment  manu- 
rturers  marketing  manager.  In  the  newly 
?ated  position,  Sutker  will  provide  market  re- 
arch,  planning,  and  promotion,  and  direct 
lessupportto  OEM's,  companies  which  incor- 
irate  Interdata  products  in  systems  for  resale  to 
sir  customers.  He  is  based  at  company  head- 
larters  in  Oceanport,  N.J.  Prior  to  joining 
terdata,  Sutker  held  several  senior  sales  and 
arketing  positions  with  Digital  Equipment 
>rporation's  OEM  Products  Group. 


966 


u!  Castle  holds  the  post  of  plant  superintend- 
t  in  the  Arm  &  Hammer  Division  of  Church  & 

vight  Co.,  Inc.,  Syracuse,  N.Y Steve  Erhard 

xks  for  the  Fairbanks  Weighing  Division  of 
ilt  Industries,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.  .  .  .  Ronald 
[yden  is  a  sales  engineer  at  New  England 
mtrols,  Inc.,  Mansfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Paul  Peter- 
n  is  a  senior  technical  consultant  for  Software 
5.  of  North  America,  Reston,  Va.  He  is  located 
Evergreen,  Colorado. 

Richard  Piasecki,  steel  construction  specialist 
•  Armco  Steel  Corp.,  is  diplomatically  advising 
me  20  Russian  steel  assemblers  in  the  con- 
uction  of  the  Russian  version  of  New  York 's 
orld  Trade  Center  in  Moscow,  according  to  a 
>ry  published  in  the  December  6th  issue  of 
siness  Week.  Previously  he  had  worked  on 
anhattan's  1 1 0-story  World  Trade  Center. .  .  . 
larles  Roberts,  Jr.,  formerly  with  Bell  Tele- 
ione  Labs,  has  joined  Packer  Engineering  As- 
c,  Inc.  in  Naperville,  Illinois. 


967 


Married:  Peter  N.  Formica  and  Miss  Nicola  F. 
appone  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut  on 
wember  27,1 976.  Mrs.  Formica  graduated 
3m  St.  Joseph  College  and  is  a  chemist  at 
*C-The  Research  Corp.  of  New  England  in 
'ethersfield.  Her  husband  is  a  consulting  air 
)llution  engineer  at  TRC. . . .  Timothy  J.  Hester, 
.,  and  Miss  Linda  S.  Hopkins  in  Worcester  on 
ne  12,  1976.  The  bride  graduated  from  Do- 
;rty  Memorial  High  School  and  is  a  secretary  at 
.organ  Construction  Co.  Her  husband  is  with 
i  >encer  (Mass.)  Products. 
Continuing  with  the  Torin  Corporation, 
lomas  Keenan  has  been  elected  assistant 
2asurer  and  secretary.  Since  joining  Torin,  he 
is  served  as  a  development  engineer,  project 
>  igineer,  assistant  to  the  controller  in  the  Bel- 
•  an  Division,  division  accounting  manager,  and 
mtroller. 


Michael  Babin  serves  as  project  engineer  under 
a  contract  agreement  on  an  ERDA  project  for 
development  of  a  test  faci  lity  for  the  fast  breeder 
reactor.  He  is  contracted  to  Westinghouse  at 
Hanford  Reservation.  .  .  .  John  Bresnahan  has 
been  named  supervisor  of  facilities  engineering 
for  Norton  Company's  Engineering  and  Con- 
struction Services  department.  Since  1968  he 
has  served  Norton  as  a  manufacturing  engineer 
in  the  Grinding  Wheel  Division  and  as  a  facilities 
engineer  and  energy  conservation  engineer.  .  .  . 
Frank  Kuszpa,  Jr.,  was  recently  appointed  assis- 
tant director  of  engineering  at  Danbury  (Conn.) 
Hospital.  Formerly  he  was  a  senior  experimental 
test  engineer  with  Pratt  and  Whitney  Aircraft. 

Roger  Pryor  has  joined  Pitney  Bowes  as  a 
senior  physicist  in  the  mailing  systems  division  at 
Pitney  Bowes  in  Stamford,  Conn.  A  member  of 
APS,  AAAS,  IEEE,  and  Sigma  Xi,  he  earned  his 
master's  and  doctorate  from  Pennsylvania  State 
University.  He  has  published  several  papers  on 
thresholding  switching  in  amorphous  semicon- 
ductors and  presented  papers  and  tutorials  in 
electro-optics.  . .  .  Currently  Kenneth  Roberts  is 
manager  of  planning  systems  and  controls  at 
Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  Valley  Forge,  Pa.  .  . .  L.  Jack 
Roger  has  received  his  PhD  from  the  Depart- 
ment of  Physiology  and  Pharmacology  at  Duke 
University,  Durham,  N.C.  Presently  he  is  a  post- 
doctoral fellow  in  the  Neurobiology  Program  at 
the  University  of  North  Carolina  in  Chapel  Hill. 


1969 


Joel  Greene,  who  recently  opened  a  law  office  in 
Worcester,  serves  as  director  of  the  Worcester 
Area  Drug  Coalition,  director  and  treasurer  of 
Regatta  Point  Community  Sailing,  Inc.,  and  di- 
rector of  the  Ripon  Society  of  Boston  and  Cam- 
bridge, He  is  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
County,  Massachusetts,  and  American  bar  asso- 
ciations. 


1970 


Married:  Wayne  E.  Eastman  and  Miss  Linda  G. 
Williams  in  Kershaw,  South  Carolina  on  October 
2,  1976.  The  bride  is  a  student  at  Winthrop 
College.  The  groom  works  for  Allied  Chemical 
Co.,  Columbia,  S.C.  .  .  .  Lewis  H.  Howes,  MNS, 
to  Miss  Patricia  C.  Daley  in  Norwood,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  November  21,  1976.  Mrs.  Howes 
graduated  from  Boston  State  College  and  has  a 
BS  and  master's  in  reading. 

Peter  Bladen  attends  graduate  school  at  North 
Carolina  State  University.  .  .  .  John  Demase  is  a 
product  support  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  in 
West  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  Clark  Knickerbocker 
serves  as  sales  manager  for  Swift  Agricultural 
Chemicals  in  Chicago. . . .  Jonathan  Leavitt  holds 
the  post  of  test  engineer  for  Combustion  En- 
gineering, Inc.,  Portsmouth,  N.H.  He,  his  wife, 
Fran,  daughter,  Julie  4,  and  son  Jonathan,  2, 
reside  in  Exeter,  N.H. . . .  Fred  Nashawaty,  MNS, 
was  named  Conservation  Educator  of  the  Year 
by  the  Northern  Rhode  Island  Conservation 
District  in  November.  He  is  science  department 
chairman  at  Cumberland  (R.I.)  High  School  and 
was  selected  for  the  honor  on  the  basis  of  his 
work  in  establishing  an  oceanography  course,  a 


federally  sponsored  nature  trail  project,  and 
implementation  of  an  environmental  course  into 
the  science  curriculum  at  the  high  school. ...  Dr. 
James  Schwing  is  an  assistant  professor  in  the 
department  of  mathematics  and  computer  sci- 
ence at  Old  Dominion  University,  Norfolk,  Va. 
He  received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Utah 
last  year. 


1971 


Joseph  Spezeski  and  a  team  of  scientists  at  the 
University  of  Arizona  have  identified  the  optical 
spectrum  characteristics  of  the  hydrogen 
molecule,  the  simplest  molecule  in  nature.  He  is 
participating  in  the  hydrogen  spectrometer  proj- 
ect while  taking  a  year  off  from  Yale,  where  he 
has  been  working  on  his  doctorate. 


1972 


>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Samuel  T.  Davis  their 
second  child,  Doug,  on  October  13, 1976.  Davis 
is  an  industrial  engineer  at  Stride  Rite  Shoe  Corp. 
in  Newburyport,  Mass. 

Stephen  Domeratzky  works  for  Chartier  Bros, 
in  Prescott,  Arizona. 


1973 


^■Married:  Harry  A.  Kasparian  to  Miss  Elaine  R. 
Matyson  October  3,  1976  in  Worcester.  The 
bride,  a  mathematics  teacher  in  Holden, 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College.  Her 
husband  has  a  degree  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity Graduate  School  of  Engineering  and  is  an 
environmental  engineer  for  Metcalf  and  Eddy  in 

Boston Dorothy  L.  O'Keefe and  Lawrence  E. 

Franciscus  on  October  15,  1976  in  Dudley, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Franciscus  is  an  industrial 
engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  and  has 
completed  one  year  of  graduate  study  at  WPI. 
The  bridegroom  graduated  from  Pennsylvania 
State  University,  where  he  received  a  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  industrial  engineering.  He,  too, 
is  an  industrial  engineer  at  Norton  Co.  .  .  . 
Richard  F.  Silvestris  and  Miss  JoAnn  McEachern 
in  Paxton,  Massachusetts  on  October  31,  1976. 
The  bride  graduated  from  the  Memorial  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing  and  attended  the  University  of 
Maine  and  Worcester  State  College.  She  is  a 
registered  nurse  at  Memorial.  The  groom  is  with 
Monsanto  of  South  Windsor,  Conn. 
*Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  B.  Whitney,  their 
first  child,  Benjamin  John,  on  October  20,  1 976. 
John  is  a  research  engineer  at  A.  E.  Staley  Co., 
Decatur,  III. 

Jeffrey  Berry  works  for  the  Measurement  and 
Control  Systems  Division  of  Gulton  Industries  in 
East  Greenwich,  R.I.  He  holds  the  post  of  design 
engineer  for  recording  and  printing  instruments. 
.  . .  Tom  Bileski  is  a  field  sales  engineer  covering 
Texas,  Colorado,  and  Louisiana  for  the  control 
products  division  of  Texas  Instruments,  Dallas. . . 
.  Michael  DeCollibus  currently  serves  as  a  mar- 
keting engineer  for  Browne  Corp.  of  Santa  Bar- 
bara, Calif.  The  firm  manufactures  both  indus- 
trial and  medical  diagnostic  equipment.  The 
DeCollibuses  and  their  son  Kevin,  1 V2,  are  lo- 
cated in  Nashua,  N.H. .  .  .  Alex  Dzialo  is  a 
chemist  at  Uniroyal  in  Bethany,  Conn. . . .  Robert 
Haywood  has  been  awarded  first-year  honors  at 
Harvard  Business  School.  He  is  now  in  the  sec- 
ond and  final  year  of  the  MBA  program  there. . . . 
Frederick  Kolack  is  a  graduate  student  at  Stan- 
ford University. 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977  / 19 


lacobucci  lights  'em  up! 


zaio. 

Roctronics  Entertainment  Limiting  of 
Cambridge,  Mass.,  a  firm  that  designs 
nightclubs  and  theaters  and  the  control 
equipment  to  go  in  them,  has  a  high 
percentage  of  WPI  graduates  as  employees 
—  and  with  good  reason!  The  president 
,\nd  founder  of  the  ten-year-old  company 
isDr.  Richard  lacobucci,  '63. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI  with 
distinction,  Dr.  lacobucci  obtained  a  mas- 
ter 's  degree  m  computer  technology  from 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania  and  a  Juris 
Doctoris  from  Harvard  in  1968.  While 
still  a  law  student,  he  started  a  small 
business  offering  portable  discodieque 
and  lighting  services  to  Boston  area  pn- 


Showing  off  some  of  their  products  are  (from  left)  Mark 
Mooradian.  '73,  Dr.  Richard  lacobucci,  '63,  and  Frank  Catan- 

■71. 

vate  parties  and  performing  artists. 

That  business  has  grown  now  to  service 
clients  worldwide,  such  as:  the  Sheraton 
Infinity  Lounge  in  Hawaii;  Sonesta  Beach 
Hotel,  Bermuda;  Lucifer's,  Calgary, 
Canada;  the  Rafters,  Saratoga  Springs, 
N.Y.;  Reflections,  Cambridge,  Mass.,  and 
many  others. 

A  recent  addition  to  the  firm's  15- 
member  staff  is  Frank  Catanzaro,  7 1,  a 
management  engineering  graduate.  As  as- 
sistant division  manager  for  the  profes- 
sional division,  Frank  is  responsible  for 
coordinating  sales  through  a  world-wide 
dealership  network.  Products  include 
theatrical  dimming  systems,  color  syn- 


thesizers for  composing  in  color  in  har- 
mony to  music,  special  effects  equipment 
(stroboscopes,  bubblers,  foggers,  mirrored  I 
balls)  and  animated  displays. 

Mark  Mooradian  graduated  in  Physics 
in  1973.  His  new  position  as  assistant 
division  manager  of  the  consumer  divi-    ' 
sion  requires  that  he  attend  to  the  needs  oi 
nightclubs,  theaters,  and  traveling  per- 
formers at  the  retail  level. 

Dr.  lacobucci  says:  "I  have  a  definite 
preference  for  hiring  WPI  graduates,  be- 
cause from  my  own  experience,  I  know    i 
the  rigorous  training  and  intellectual  dis- 
cipline required  to  do  well  at  Worcester 
Tech.  We  have  applicants  from  many  of 
the  New  England  area  schools,  and  most 
of  them  can't  even  pass  the  simple  quiz 
that  we  give  as  part  of  our  employment    . 
application  interview.  I  feel  badly  for 
those  students  who  spend  so  much 
money  on  an  education  that  has  ill  pre-    ; 
pared  them  for  survival  in  the  real  world 
of  finding  a  job  and  earning  a  living.  It's 
nice  to  know  that  Worcester  Tech  is  still 
offering  a  substantive  education  for  the 
dollars  and  time  that  the  students  spend 
there.  I  encourage  present  students  to 
pursue  their  studies  diligently,  despite  tht 
mental  effort  that  it  requires." 

Roctronics  is  currently  developing 
many  new  entertainment  devices,  includ- 
ing modulated  laser  beams,  moving 
3-dimensional  pictures  through  holog- 
raphy, and  giant  (64'  x  128')  full-color  TV 
screen  controlled  by  the  new  micro  proc- 
essor technology. 


Joshua  Kolawole  was  honored  recently  for 
receiving  his  master's  degree  in  electric  power 
engineering  from  RPI  as  a  member  of  GE's 
Center  Industrial  Research  Graduate  Study  pro- 
gram. Program  members  work  at  the  Center  part 
time  during  the  academic  year  and  full  time 
during  the  summer  while  pursuing  a  course  of 
graduate  study  at  a  nearby  university.  Anelectri- 
cal engineer,  Kolawole  is  already  working  to- 
ward his  PhD.  For  his  doctorial  thesis,  he  is 
researching  ion  beam  diagnostics  of  magnet- 
ically confined  plasmas        William  Nutter  has 
been  named  refurbishment  engineer  for  GE 
Ordnance  Systems  at  Mare  Island  Naval  Ship- 
yard, for  the  Polaris  missile  submarine  SSB(N) 
601 ,  Robert  E  Lee.  He  oversees  the  refurbish- 
ment of  all  GE  missile  fire  control  equipment 
during  the  third  overhaul  for  the  598  class 
submarine  The  shipyard  is  located  in  Vallejo, 
Calif         Robert  Sykes  is  with  duPont  at  the 
Spruance  plant  in  Richmond,  Va 

Alexander  Vrachnos  is  production  engineer 
at  Viomichania  Chalyvon  S  A  ,  Athens,  Greece. 


1974 


^■Married:  David  J.  Courtemanche  and  Miss  Lee 
Ann  Little  on  November  6,  1 976  in  Norwich, 
Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated  from  Boston 
College  and  plans  to  do  graduate  work  in  higher 
education  and  psychology.  Her  husband  is  with 
United  Engineers  and  Constructors  in  Boston. 

William  R.  Delaney  and  Miss  Paula  M. 
Fragassi,  76  on  October  9,  1976  in  Glens  Falls, 
New  York.  Mrs.  Delaney  received  her  degree  in 
life  science.  The  groom  is  plant  manager  at 
Miles-Kedex  Co.  in  Leominster,  Mass. 

Leonard  Brzozowski,  who  received  his  MBA 
and  ME  from  Dartmouth,  is  now  an  associate  at 
Cresap,  McCormick  &  Paget,  Inc.,  Washington, 
DC.  .  .  .  Gasper  Buffa,  Jr.,  is  a  quality  control 
engineer  at  General  Electric  in  Youngstown, 
Ohio.  .      Steve  Dacri  taught  "The  Art  of 
Legerdemain"  during  WPI's  Intersession.  The 
course  included  theory  and  practice  of  magic  as  a 
form  of  entertainment.  Steve  is  expanding  his 
Schoolof  Magic  in  Worcester.  It  will  nowinclude 
an  Executive  Course  designed  for  businessmen 
who  might  like  to  learn  tricks  to  show  clients  or 
associates.        David  Gracie  is  a  systems  analyst 
at  California  Pacific  Utilities  in  San  Francisco.  .  .  . 
William  Johannes,  MNS,  is  under  contract  with 
the  Trust  Territory  government  of  the  Pacific 
Islands  He  is  writing  a  new  science  curriculum, 
teaching  math,  physics,  chemistry,  and  biology, 
and  serving  as  chairman  of  the  science  depart- 
ment. 


1975 


^■Married:  David  E.  Medeiros  and  Miss  Kath- 
leen M.  DeRoche  in  Seekonk,  Massachusetts  or 
November  20,  1 976.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Bridgewater  State  College  and  is  currently  teach 
ing  physical  education  at  Coyle-Cassidy  High 
School.  Herhusbandiswith  Gillette  Co.,  Boston 
.  .    Joseph  W.  Pratt  to  Miss  Dorothy  E.  Savastic 
on  November  26,  1976  in  Plymouth,  Connec- 
ticut. Mrs.  Pratt,  a  part-time  student  at  Southerr 
Connecticut  State  College,  is  employed  by 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co.  in  New 
Haven.  The  bridgroom  is  self-employed  with 
Pratt  Brothers  Contractors  in  Plymouth. 

Robert  Baccaro  serves  as  a  project  engineer  a 
Pfizer,  Inc.,  Adams,  Mass.  .  .  .  Edward  Boyeais 
with  the  U.S.  Postal  Service  in  Keene,  N.H.    . 
Robert  Bradley  holds  the  post  of  systems  pro- 
grammer for  U.S.  Steel  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He 
recently  transferred  from  the  electric  cable  divi 
sion  in  Worcester  to  the  Pittsburgh  advanced 
systems  development  group.        Garrett 
Cavanaugh,  who  was  formerly  with  lnter-Roy< 
Co.,  Plainfield,  Conn.,  is  now  a  lecturer  in  indu' 
trial  education,  drafting,  and  material  science  a 
Keene  (N.H)  State  College. 


ruary  19//    WPNournal 


ENGINEERING  GRADUATES 


SIKORSKY  Helicopters  help  build  a  lot  of  things 
...including  exciting  careers 


Far  more  versatile  than  many  people  know,  the 
helicopter  provides  scores  of  unexpected  ser- 
vices. Specially  designed  craft  by  Sikorsky,  for 
example,  do  workhorse  chores  in  construction 
of  many  types.  Frequently,  they  replace  mobile 
cranes,  and  just  as  frequently  perform  heavy 
lifting  tasks  more  effectively. 

In  the  area  of  commercial,  industrial  and  public 
service  applications,  VTOL  (Vertical  Take-off  and 
Landing)  craft  is  virtually  in  its  infancy.  Support- 
ing technology,  too,  still  presents  wide  areas 
for  exploration  and  long  term  development. 


Currently,  Sikorsky  has  openings  pro- 
viding strong  prospects  for  continu- 
ing career  gains  for  Aeronautical, 
Electrical  and  Mechanical 
Engineers  in  the  following 
areas: 


DESIGN  (aircraft  structures;  propulsion  systems; 
transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight  control 
systems;  electrical/electronic  systems). 

TEST  AND  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads, 
dynamic,  stress,  mass  properties,  reliability/ 
maintainability;  electrical/electronic  systems; 
technical  computing). 

MANUFACTURING  ENGINEERING  (planning, 
methods,  processes). 

Starting  salaries  and  benefits  are  excellent.  And 
our  suburban  location  in  Stratford,  Connecti- 
cut is  rich  in  living  and  cultural  opportun- 
_  ^       ities.  For  further  information,  see  your 
V  "'  ^  Placement  Office  for  our  brochure 

*:^  A-     and  the  date  of  our  forthcoming 

campus  interviews.  Or  write  di- 
rectly to  Professional  Place- 
ment, Sikorsky  Aircraft. 
1 


IIICO.     I    VI      IUI 

m  Placemen 

•J*    ,A~     fndth 

T1^ 


SIKORSKY  AIRCRAFT 

STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT   06602 

An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M  &  F 


Division  of 

UNITED 
TECHNOLOGIES 


Today's  engineers. . . 
building  a  better 


In  today's  complex 
world  with  its  ever- 
growing population, 
it  takes  exceptional  planning 
and  engineering  to  build 
quality  into  tomorrow. 

As  the  world's  largest  en- 
gineering and  construction 
organization,  the  Corps  of 
Engineers  has  been  helping  to 
build  better  tomorrows  for 
over  200  years.  Our  engineers 
work  constantly  and  closely 
with  biologists,  economists, 
planners,  landscape  archi- 
tects and  environmen- 
talists on  projects  of 
critical  importance. 


tomorrow. 


We're  preserving  and  pro- 
tecting the  quality  of  life  by 
carefully  balancing  the  de- 
velopment of  our  water  re- 
sources with  the  preserva- 
tion of  our  natural 
environment. 

The  balance  is  precarious. 
The  challenge  extreme.  But 
we're  helping  to  make  it  work, 
and  so  can  you.  Come  meet 
the  challenge  with  us! 

As  a  civilian  engineer,  land- 
scape architect  or  environ- 
mentalist with  the  Corps  of 
Engineers,  you'll  gain  per- 
sonal and  professional 
satisfaction  in  a  diverse 
atmosphere.  Your  career  will 
involve  planning,  design  and 
construction  of  water  re- 
sources projects,  hospitals, 
family  housing,  manufactur- 
ing plants,  missile  and  space 
exploration  facilities  and 
more. 

Help  build  a  better  tomorrow. 
Write  us  today.  We'll  tell  you 
more  about  the  ex- 
ceptional civilian 
career  opportuni- 
ties waiting  for 
you  at  the  Corps 
of  Engineers. 


Corps  of  Engineers 
Department  of  the  Army 
Washington,  DC.  20314 

An  equal  opportunily  employer. 


Frederick  Cordelia  is  with  Prunier  &  Sons  in 
orcester.  .  . .  Bruce  D'ambrosio  is  at  the 

niversity  of  Southern  California  in  Los  Angeles. 
.  Wi  lliam  DiBenedetto  serves  as  section 
anager  for  graphic  systems  at  Data  General 
arp.,  Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  Maurice 
iroux  recently  completed  a  professional  mili- 
ry  school  course  for  Air  Force  electronics  instal- 
tion  team  chiefs  and  communications  super- 
iors at  Oklahoma  City  Air  Force  Station.  Lt. 
roux  is  a  communications-electronics  officer  at 
;lly  AFB,  Texas,  with  the  1827th  Electronic 
stallation  Squadron. . . .  John  Heil  isa  graduate 
jdent  at  San  Diego  (Calif.)  State  University. 


1976 


^■Married:  Paul  C.  Carubia  to  Miss  Debra  S. 
Demarais  in  Granville,  Massachusetts  on  Oc- 
tober 23,  1976.  Mrs.  Carubia  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College.  Her  husband  is  doing 
graduate  work  at  Cornell. . . .  Norman  P.  Gariepy 
and  Miss  Diane  Marrella  recently  in  Fitchburg, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  the 
dental  assistant  program  at  Monty  Tech,  is  em- 
ployed by  Dr.  Joel  Treewater  in  Leominster.  The 
groom  attends  the  Northeastern  University 
Graduate Schoolof  ProfessionalAccounting. . . . 
Bernard  E.  Gordon  and  Miss  Christine  Kularski  in 


Aath  teacher  in  Malaysia 


i  July  9,  1975,  Gerald  A.  Otte,  '73,  of 
irham,  Connecticut,  became  Abdul 
imid  Abdullah.  After  serving  as  a  Peace 
>rps  volunteer  for  nearly  two  years  in 
s  Southeast  Asian  country  of  Malaysia, 
:te  converted  to  the  Islam  religion  and 
3k  his  new  name. 

"After  a  year  here,  my  ideas  about  life 
d  what  I  wanted  horn  it  had  changed 
astically.  I  found  myself  in  need  of 
igjous  beliefs  and  discovered  that  my 
liefs  were  very  similar  to  the  doctrines 
Islam,"  said  Otte,  who  extended  his 
ginal  two-year  Peace  Corps  term  of 
'vice  for  an  additional  year. 
"I  would  have  to  say  that  becoming  a 
jslim  is  my  most  satisfying  experience 
re,  along  with  the  close  friends  I  have 
ide,"  said  the  volunteer,  who  teaches 
ithematics  at  a  secondary  school  in 
lore  Bauru,  the  southernmost  state  in 
daysia. 

'The  important  goal  of  my  program  is 
improve  the  level  of  science  knowledge 
secondary  Malay  schools.  This  is  im- 
rtant  because  of  the  progress  of 
•hnology  in  this  country  and  the  need 
science  people,"  said  Otte.  He  teaches 
;  equivalent  of  the  eleventh  grade  at  the 
xmdary  school,  which  has  about  1,600 
alay  students  and  about  56  Malay, 
dnese  and  Indian  teachers. 
During  recent  years,  the  Malaysian 
vemment  has  placed  a  strong  emphasis 
education,  particularly  for  the  Malay 
ople  who  make  up  roughly  50  per  cent 
the  country's  population.  Most  of  the 
alays  are  subsistence  farmers  or  rubber 
Dpers  who  live  in  poor  villages.  The 
alays,  however,  control  much  of  the 
litical  and  social  life  of  the  country. 
About  40  per  cent  of  the  population  are 
linese  who  are  mainly  urban  dwellers 
d,  by  virtue  of  their  predominant  role  in 
ide,  business  and  finance,  possess  a 
;at  deal  of  Malaysia's  economic  power, 
alaysians  of  Indian  descent  make  up 
out  1 0  per  cent  of  the  population  of 
proximately  1 1.5  million.  Their  ances- 
rs  came  from  India,  Pakistan  and  Sri 
nka,  primarily  as  laborers  on  rubber 


plantations  around  the  turn  of  the  cen- 
tury. 

Pursuing  a  policy  of  national  unity,  the 
Malaysian  government  ruled  in  1 967  that 
Bahasa  Malaysia  would  replace  English  as 
the  country's  national  language.  In  1970, 
this  policy  was  enforced  in  government- 
funded  schools  by  having  all  subjects 
taught  in  Bahasa  Malaysia  starting  with 
the  first  grade.  Subsequently,  an  addi- 
tional grade  has  been  added  each  year  so 
that  now  the  children  are  taught  in  the 
national  language  up  through  the  equiva- 
lent of  the  seventh  grade. 

Otte  teaches  in  Bahasa  Malaysia  and 
uses  it  most  of  the  time  outside  of  work. 
He  initially  learned  the  language  in  inten- 
sive Peace  Corps  training  and  since  has 
improved  his  fluency  in  it  through  his 
association  with  the  Malay  people. 

"Several  times  I  have  used  a  wrong 
word  which  was  embarrassing,  particu- 
larly when  I  ordered  what  I  thought  was  a 
Malay  food  in  a  restaurant.  What  I  said 
onlyturned  the  waiter's  face  red.  The 
meaning  shall  be  left  unsaid,"  recalled  the 
volunteer.  He  usually  prepares  his  own 
meals,  eats  strictly  Malay  food  and  claims 
that  he  has  become  an  expert  cook. 

"In  my  first  few  months  here,  I  was 
completely  unaware  of  many  of  the  coun- 
try's customs  and,  for  fear  of  offending 
anyone,  I  took  a  rear  seat  and  tried  to  learn 
about  the  customs  without  talcing  an 
active  part,"  said  Otte.  Since  he  taught  at 
a  Malay  school  and  associated  with  many 
Malays,  the  volunteer  "soon  became  very 
close  with  several  Malays  and  learned  a 
lot  about  their  culture  and  their  religion. " 

Otte  lives  about  a  mile  horn  his  school 
in  a  semi-detached,  one-story  brick  house 
in  an  area  which  is  fairly  rural,  but  is 
developing  quickly.  He  teaches  about  five 
periods  a  day  from  7:30  a.m.  until  1:10 
p.m.  After  lunch,  he  returns  to  school  to 
teach  extra  classes  or  direct  choir  and 
badminton  practice.  Evenings,  he  usually 
prepares  lessons  or  visits  with  friends. 
Since  he  lives  only  a  mile  from  the  water- 
front on  the  Singapore  Straits,  he  goes 
there  once  in  a  while  with  friends. 


Auburn,  Massachusetts  on  August  21 ,  1 976. 
Mrs.  Gordon  graduated  from  Auburn  High 
School  and  is  an  inspector  at  Astra  Pharmaceuti- 
cal Products  Co.  The  bridegroom  is  employed  by 
Thunderbird  Bowl  in  Auburn. 
^■Married:  Perry  S.  Griffin  and  Miss  Andrea 
Kenney  on  October  30,  1 976  in  Saugus,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Griffin  graduated  from  Becker. 
Her  husband  is  a  production  supervisor  at  Estee 
Lauder,  Inc.,  Oakland,  N.J.  .  .  .  Thomas  A.  Nery 
and  Miss  Sharon  R.  Messinger  in  Brooklyn, 
Connecticut  on  October  24,  1976.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College.  The 
groom  is  a  systems  proposal  engineer  at  the 

Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co Steven  C.  Pratt  and  Miss 

Kathleen  McManuson  December  4,  1976  in 
Pawtucket,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Pratt  attended 
Becker.  The  bridegroom  is  with  Polyform  Corp., 
Westboro,  Mass. 

Ronald  Abruzzese  is  design  engineer  at  Texas 
Instruments  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Marian 
Bishop  works  for  AIL/Cutler  Hammer  in  Deer 
Park,  NY.  .  .  .  Andre  Bissonnette  serves  as 
assistant  credit  manager  at  Stamford  Superior 
Drug  in  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Edward  Fasulo,  Jr., 
has  been  promoted  to  day  shift  supervisor  in  the 
Organic  Chemicals  Division  at  the  American 
Cyanamid  Company  in  New  Jersey.  He  also 
plans  to  enroll  at  Princeton  in  pursuit  of  a 
master's  degree.  .  . .  James  Hall  is  manager  of 
the  bar  soap  department  at  Procter  &  Gamble  in 
Quincy,  Mass. 

John  Highman  holds  the  post  of  systems 
assistant  at  Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford, 

Conn Thomas  Keenan  has  received  a  $1 ,250 

award  from  the  James  F.  Lincoln  Arc  Welding 
Foundation  for  his  research  on  the  strength  of 
stainless  steel  welds.  He  was  the  only  winner  in 
Massachusetts. . . .  Charles  Lauzon  is  a  graduate 
student  at  the  University  of  Michigan.  . .  . 
Kestutis  Pauliukonis,  a  student  with  the  U.S. 
Navy  Health  Science  Education  and  Training 
Command,  is  presently  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
1 980  at  Georgetown  University  Medical  School. 
. .  .  Graig  Plourde  has  joined  Connecticut  Bank 
and  Trust  Co.  as  a  system  programmer  in  the 
Technical  Support  Group. 

Richard  Ranelli  has  been  promoted  to  systems 
development  officer  and  systems  manager  for 
Financial  Industry  Systems  (FIS)  at  Hartford  Na- 
tional Bank.  He  is  responsible  for  all  check  proc- 
essing, correspondent  banking,  and  financial 
control  computer  applications.  Ranelli,  who  re- 
cently received  his  master's  from  WPI,  joined 
Hartford  National  in  1973.  He  has  been  pro- 
grammer analyst  and  project  manager  for  the 
check  processing  control  system  project.  .  . . 
James  Roberge  is  with  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Richard  Rudis  works  as 
assistant  quality  control  engineer  for  Stone  & 
Webster  of  Boston.  He  is  located  in  Oswego, 
N.Y.  . .  .  John  Scott  is  an  engineer  in  training  at 
Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester ....  Barry  Siff 
serves  as  a  safety  representative  for  Royal  G  lobe 
Insurance  in  Southfield,  Michigan. 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1 977/23 


Mark  Eldredge,  06  of  Santa  Barbara,  California 
died  on  December  5,  1976 

He  was  born  on  May  17. 1882  in  Almonesson, 
N  J  In  1 906  he  received  his  B5EE  from  WPI.  For 
many  years  he  served  as  an  electric  power 
systems  adviser  in  India.  From  1 948  to  1 952  he 
was  chief  of  the  Utilities  &  Fuels  Division  in  the 
office  of  the  Secretary  of  Defense  in 
Washington.  DC  He  was  also  employed  by 
General  Electric,  Electnc  Bond  &  Share,  New 
York  City,  and  Memphis  (Tenn.)  Power  &  Light 
Co  Prior  to  his  retirement,  he  was  with  the 
Foreign  Operations  Administration,  American 
Embassy.  New  Delhi,  India 

Mr  Eldredge.  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer, belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  AECS,  and 
ASME  He  was  a  fellow  of  the  Amencan  Institute 
of  Electrical  Engineers,  director  of  AIEE,  presi- 
dent of  the  Association  for  the  UN,  and  a 
former  vice  president  of  the  Washington,  DC 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association  He  was  an 
Army  veteran  of  World  War  I,  a  Shrmer,  and  a 
32nd  degree  Mason 

Roy  S.  Lanphear,  06  retired  chief  chemist  for 
Worcester  s  Sewer  and  Water  Departments, 
died  on  November  19.  1976  in  Worcester  He 
was  92 

After  graduating  as  a  chemist  from  WPI.  Mr 
Lanphear  joined  the  Worcester  Department  of 
Pubbc  Works  He  remained  with  the  department 
from  1913  to  1946  when  he  retired  as  supervis- 
ing chemist  He  was  past  president  of  the  New 
England  Sewage  Work  Association  and  he 
served  as  a  captain  with  the  Army  Quartermas- 
ter Corps  during  World  War  I   He  was  born  in 
Worcester  on  Jury  6.  1884 


Dudley  Harmon,  '09  former  executive  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  New  England  Council  for  26  years, 
passed  away  at  his  home  in  Harwich  Port,  Mas- 
sachusetts on  December  8,  1 976.  He  died  at  90 
following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Meriden,  Conn,  on  November 
18,  1886,  later  studying  chemistry  at  WPI.  In 
1 909  he  graduated  from  Wesleyan  University. 
During  his  career  he  was  on  the  staff  of  the 
Washington  (D.C.)  Hera  Id,  the  Washington 
Times,  the  United  Press,  and  the  New  York  Sun. 
He  also  served  as  the  Washington  editor  of  the 
Ladies  Home  Journal,  executive  assistant  to  the 
president  of  the  Manufacturers  Association  of 
Connecticut,  editor  of  Carpenter  World  Travels, 
and  as  coauthor  of  the  travel  book,  The  British 
Isles. 

From  1 926  until  1 951  he  was  with  the  New 
England  Council,  where  as  executive  vice  presi- 
dent, he  kept  in  touch  with  major  developments 
affecting  New  England's  business  future.  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and  Boston  Eco- 
nomic Club.  In  1951  he  received  an  honorary 
doctor  of  laws  degree  from  Brown  University. 

James  J.  Shea,  '12  WPI  Trustee  Emeritus  and 
Chairman  of  the  Board  Emeritus  of  Milton  Brad- 
ley Company,  Springfield,  Massachusetts,  died 
on  January  3,  1977.  He  was  87  years  old. 

Mr.  Shea's  retirement  as  chairman  of  the 
Board  of  Directors  in  1971,  ended  a  long  career 
at  Milton  Bradley,  which  he  joined  as  president 
in  1 941  when  the  company  was  on  the  verge  of 
bankruptcy.  Today,  it  is  the  largest  manufacturer 
of  games,  puzzles,  and  educational  materials  in 
the  United  States,  with  sales  last  year  of  approx  - 
imately  $190,000,000. 

A  native  of  Cambridge,  Mass.,  Shea  was  born 
on  August  1 8,  1 889.  After  graduating  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI,  where  he  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  he  was  employed 
by  United  States  Envelope  Co.,  Worcester.  In 
1922  he  was  transferred  to  the  former  Kellogg 
Division  in  Spnngfield  and  served  there  as  plant 
superintendent  and  assistant  to  the  president.  In 
1941  he  became  president  of  Milton  Bradley. 

Mr.  Shea  was  a  director  of  Milton  Bradley 
Company,  Valley  Bank  &  Trust  Co.,  the  Em- 
ployers Association  of  Western  Massachusetts, 
and  Buxton,  Inc.  He  served  as  a  trustee  of  A.I. C, 
Old  Sturbndge  Village,  the  Hampden  Savings 
Bank,  the  United  Way,  the  Massachusetts  Foun- 
dation, Mercy  Hospital,  and  as  an  associate 
trustee  of  Holy  Cross  College.  He  was  a  WPI 
trustee  for  1 3  years  and  a  former  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  He  received  honorary  de- 
grees from  six  New  England  colleges,  including 
WPI  and  Holy  Cross.  In  1967  he  received  the 
Herbert  F  Taylor  Award  from  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association. 

Among  the  many  organizations  with  which  he 
was  affiliated  were  the  Springfield  Industrial 
Association,  the  Springfield  Symphony  Or- 
chestra Association,  the  Springfield  Water 
Commission,  the  Crayon,  Water  Color  and  Craft 
Institute  of  New  York,  Springfield  Area  Devel- 
opment Committee  and  the  Springfield  Council 
Against  Discrimination 

In  1958  he  was  named  a  Knight  of  the 
Sovereign  Military  Order  of  Malta  by  Pope  Pius 
XII  Other  honors  presented  to  Mr  Shea  in- 
cluded the  Key  to  the  City  of  Springfield,  the 
governor's  Paul  Revere  Bowl,  the  John  F  Ken- 
nedy National  Award,  Outstanding  Citizen 
Award,  and  an  award  from  the  National  Associa - 
HPrs  noting  his  many  contribu- 
tions to  the  development  of  educational  toys 
-ind  g,imes  through  the  Milton  Bradley  Com- 
pany 


WPI  Journal 


Edward  W.  Shaw,  '13  died  in  the  Memorial 
Hospital  in  Worcester  on  November  6,  1 976.  He 
was  85. 

In  1 962  he  retired  as  a  structural  engineer 
from  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  Previously,  in  1956,  he 
had  retired  from  Stone  &  Webster  Co.  At  one 
time  he  had  been  with  E.  B.  Badger  &  Sons, 
Boston. 

Mr.  Shaw,  who  was  born  on  January  26,  1891 
in  Worcester,  studied  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 
He  was  a  licensed  professional  engineer.  A  past 
master  of  Isaiah  Thomas  Lodge  of  Masons,  he 
was  also  a  member  of  Eureka  Royal  Arch  Chap- 
ter of  Masons.  He  belonged  to  the  Unitarian 
Universalist  Church. 

Norman  V.  Crane,  '16,  a  former  Peabody,  Mas- 
sachusetts official,  passed  away  after  a  lengthy 
illness  on  November  11,  1976.  He  was  83  years 
old. 

He  was  born  on  June  6,  1894  in  Blackstone, 
Mass.  and  studied  at  WPI  and  at  Tri-State  Col- 
lege of  Engineering  Indiana.  For  many  years  he 
was  an  insurance  claims  adjuster  and  owner  of 
the  Norman  V.  Crane  Claims  Adjusting  Co.  of 
Lynnfield. 

Formerly  Mr.  Crane  was  city  engineer  for  the 
city  of  Peabody,  president  of  the  City  Council, 
chairman  of  the  School  Committee,  and  vice 
president  of  the  Warren  Five  Cents  Savings 
Bank.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the  Insurance 
Adjusters  Association  of  Boston  and  had  served 
as  an  officer  in  the  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary  during 
World  War  II.  He  belonged  to  the  Shrine,  the 
Elks,  ATO,  and  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason. 

William  P.  Kalagher,  '18,  died  in  Worcester 
Nursing  Home  on  November  14,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  March  20,  1895  in  Fitchburg, 
Mass.  In  1918  he  graduated  summa  cum  laude 
from  WPI  as  a  chemist,  but  due  to  an  injury, 
never  worked.  He  belonged  to  Skull. 

Francis  N.  Luce,  '18,  at  one  time  a  town  official 
in  West  Boylston,  Massachusetts,  died  on 
January  9,  1977  at  the  age  of  82. 

He  had  been  a  selectman  and  a  member  of  the 
Finance  Committee  in  West  Boylston  for  many 
years.  After  graduating  with  a  degree  in  chemis- 
try from  WPI,  he  worked  at  Norton  Co.  for  forty 
years,  retiring  in  1 960  as  assistant  superintend 
ent. 

Mr.  Luce,  a  West  Boylston  native,  was  an 
Army  veteran  of  both  World  Wars.  He  retired  as 
a  major  after  23  years  of  active  service.  He  wasa 
50-year  member  of  the  First  Congregational 
Church,  West  Boylston,  which  he  served  as  a 
former  trustee,  deacon,  and  treasurer.  Also,  he 
was  a  past  post  commander  of  the  Boylston 
Lodge  of  Masons  and  a  32nd  degree  Mason.  He 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Professiona 
Engineers  Society  of  Massachusetts,  the  Ameri 
can  Chemcial  Society,  and  the  American 
Ceramic  Society. 

Raymond  D.  Bishop,  '20,  of  Brattleboro,  Ver- 
mont died  on  December  21,1 976. 

A  Brattleboro  native,  he  was  born  on  March 
24, 1898  He  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI  From  1922  to  1959  he  was  with 
Western  Electric  Co.,  Philadelphia,  then  Michi 
gan  Bell  Telephone  Co.  in  Detroit,  where  he 
retired  as  a  customer  service  engineer. 

Mr.  Bishop,  an  associate  member  of  AIEE,  was 
a  registered  engineer  and  belonged  to  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  and  the  Telephone  Pioneers.  He 
served  as  town  representative  and  treasurer  of 
the  local  Red  Cross  He  was  the  uncle  of  Stephen 
J.  Hebert,  '66,  secretary-treasurer  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 


Iharles  S.  Cushing,  '22,  of  Portland,  Maine 
jassed  away  on  October  1 6, 1 976. 

He  was  born  on  April  9,  1897  in  Portland.  In 
1 922  he  received  his  BSCE  from  WPI.  From  1924 
:o  1939  he  was  an  engineer  with  the  Portland 
Assessor's  Department.  He  was  assessor  for  the 
:ity  from  1940  to  1945,  being  named  chairman 
}f  the  board  of  assessors  in  1 946. 

Mr.  Cushing  belonged  to  the  Municipal  Fi- 
nance Officers  Association  of  U.S.  and  Canada, 
:he  National  Association  of  Assessing  Officers, 
ind  the  Masons. 

Helge  S.  Johnson,  '24,  Trustee  Emeritus  of  WPI 
and  former  president  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
died  January  11, 1977  in  Scarsdale,  New  York  at 
the  age  of  73 

He  was  the  retired  president  of  Johnson- 
Norman  Fansand  Pumps,  Inc.,  of  New  York  City, 
sales  and  engineering  representatives  for  Buffalo 
Forge  Co. 

Mr.  Johnson  served  as  a  trustee  at  WPI  from 
1950  to  1960  and  from  1964  to  1972  when  he 
was  named  Trustee  Emeritus.  He  was  Alumni 
Association  president  from  1 947  to  1 949  and 
held  many  WPI  regional  and  national  Alumni 
Association  posts. 

A  native  of  Manchester,  N.H.,  he  graduated  as 
a  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1924.  Dur- 
ing his  career  he  was  associated  with  Buffalo 
Forge  Co.,  Coon  DeVisser  Co.,  and  Koithan  & 
Johnson,  New  York  City.  In  1973  he  retired  as 
president  of  Johnson-Norman  Fansand  Pumps, 
Inc. 

Mr.  Johnson  received  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion's Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for  distinguished 
service  to  WPI  in  1961.  In  1967  he  was  awarded 
the  Scarsdale  Bowl  in  recognition  of  the  time, 
energy,  and  effort  he  had  given  to  the  civic 
welfare  of  Scarsdale.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon,  the  White  Plains  (N.Y.)  Hospital  board 
of  governors,  the  Village  of  Scarsdale  Planning 
Commission,  and  the  Scarsdale  Board  of  Educa- 
tion, which  he  served  as  president.  He  was  also  a 
former  president  of  the  Town  Club  of  Scarsdale,. 
and  a  member  of  the  National  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers. 

Charles  J.  Thompson,  '26,  former  long  lines 
service  manager  for  Western  Electric  Co.,  New 
York  City,  died  on  December  9, 1 976  in  Summit, 
New  Jersey. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on 
November  9, 1 904.  After  receiving  his  BSEE  from 
WPI,  he  joined  Western  Electric,  retiring  in  1 969 
as  long  lines  service  manager. 

He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Telephone 
Pioneers  of  America,  and  had  served  as  historian 
for  the  Lackawanna  Power  Squadron  and  as 
captain  of  the  United  Fund  campaign.  He  wasa 
past  president  of  the  Northern  New  Jersey  chap- 
ter of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Allan  S.  Merchant,  '27,  died  at  his  home  in  East 
Greenwich,  Rhode  Island  on  December  9, 1976. 

He  was  born  on  January  2,  1903  in  Provi- 
dence. After  studying  at  WPI,  he  was  with  the 
Providence-based  firm  of  AW.  Merchant,  Inc. 
for  many  years.  He  retired  in  1943. 

Mr.  Merchant  was  a  life  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha  Fraternity,  as  well  as  a  founding 
member  of  its  charter  society.  He  was  a  life 
member  of  the  Thomas  Smith  Webb  Lodge  and 
Palestine  Temple. 


Irving  I.  Zellon,  '31,  died  in  Miami  Beach,  Florida 
on  November  1 2,  1 976  at  the  age  of  68. 

He  was  born  on  March  8,  1908  in  Worcester, 
later  becoming  a  student  at  WPI.  Before  retiring 
nine  years  ago,  he  was  a  radar  meteorologist 
with  U.S.  National  Weather  Service  in  Philadel- 
phia, Pa.,  and  Atlantic  City,  N.J. 

Mr.  Zellon  belonged  to  the  American 
Meteorologists  Association  and  the  Shaarai 
Torah  Sons  of  Abraham  Synagogue  in  Worces- 
ter. During  World  War  II  he  served  as  a  staff 
sergeant  in  the  U.S.  Army  Weather  Squadron. 

Clair E.Stauffer,  '39,  of  Levittown,  Pennsylvania 
died  on  January  21,  1975. 

After  earning  his  BSME  from  WPI,  he  joined 
DeLaval  Steam  Turbine  Co.  of  Trenton,  N.J., 
where  he  wasa  marine  sales  engineer.  In  1970 
he  retired  from  DeLaval  following  31  years  of 
service. 

Mr.  Stauffer  was  born  on  September  4,  1914 
in  Ringtown,  Pa.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa,  Trenton  Engineers  Club,  and  the  U.S. 
Naval  Institute.  He  served  as  Past  Master  of 
Loyal  #181  Masonic  Lodge  of  Trenton  and  as  an 
elder  in  the  Morrisvile  (Pa.)  Presbyterian  Church. 

Eugene  W.  Cray,  '45,  a  vice  president  of  Factory 
Mutual  Engineering  Co.,  died  unexpectedly  at 
his  home  in  Walpole,  Massachusetts  on 
November  1 5,  1 976.  He  was  52  years  old. 

A  native  of  Dorchester,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer.  From  1946  to 
1 949  he  was  a  sales  engineer  at  Gamewell  Co. 
He  joined  Factory  Mutual  in  1944  and  was  a  vice 
president  at  the  time  of  his  death.  During  World 
War  II  he  wasa  lieutenant  in  the  Navy.  He  wasa 
member  of  Theta  Chi. 

James  S.  MacKay,  '53,  a  manufacturer's  repre- 
sentative, died  November  12,  1976  after  suffer- 
ing a  heart  attack  at  his  home  in  Los  Altos  Hills, 
California. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer,  he 
went  with  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps.,  where  he 
was  promoted  to  captain  and  later  to  major  in 
the  Army  Reserve.  He  worked  for  Lytle  Corpora- 
tion, Curtiss-Wright  Corp.,  Williams  Associates, 
Raytheon  Co.,  and  Watkins  Johnson  Co.  Forthe 
past  few  years  he  had  headed  the  firm  of 
Systems  Marketing  Consultant  of  Los  Altos  Hills. 

Mr.  MacKay,  who  was  born  on  August  18, 
1930  in  Greenfield,  Mass.,  belonged  to  the 
Electronics  Representatives  Association,  the 
Sierra  Club,  IEEE,  ISA,  and  SID.  He  had  graduate 
degrees  from  the  University  of  New  Mexico  and 
Babson  Institute. 

Raymond  J.  Tivnan,  '59,  died  in  St.  Vincent 
Hospital,  Worcester,  on  November  14,  1976 
following  a  long  illness.  He  was  46. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  graduated  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI,  and  received  his 
MBA  from  Western  New  England  College.  He 
had  been  associated  with  Simplex  Time  Recorder 
Co.,  Gardner,  Mass.  At  his  death  he  was  presi- 
dent and  treasurer  of  McMahon  &  Co.,  Inc., 
maker  of  industrial  clutches  in  Worcester. 

Mr.  Tivnan  was  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer, a  member  of  K.  of  C,  and  the  Mas- 
sachusetts Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 
During  the  Korean  conflict,  he  served  as  a  Navy 
chief  petty  officer.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Kappa 
Theta. 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1977/25 


PfPOMfiHl 


WPI  STUDENTS 


It  pays  to 
enroll  in  AFROTC 


The  Air  Force  needs  commissioned  officers  in 
the  science  and  engineering  areas.  Many  will  enter 
active  duty  through  Air  Force  ROTC. 

And  you  don't  have  to  wait  for  graduation  to  re- 
ceive financial  help.  You  can  be  paid  as  you  earn 
your  college  degree. 

Check  the  list  of  college  majors.  If  yours  is  on 
the  list,  you  could  qualify  for  either  a  2  or  3-year 
AFROTC  scholarship  that  includes  full 
tuition,  books,  all  lab  fees  and  $100  a 
month,  tax  free.  Even  without  the 
scholarship  you  can  get  excellent 
Air  Force  ROTC  training  and  the 
$100  a  month  tax-free  allowance  during 
the  last  two  years  of  college. 

Upon  graduation,  you  will  be 
commissioned  as  an  Air  Force  Reserve 
Officer  and  may  be  selected  for  extended  active 
duty.  As  an  active  duty  officer  you  will  have  the 
opportunity  for  a  challenging,  technical,  responsi- 
ble job.  There  is  also  a  chance  for  advanced  education 
in  your  chosen  field.  And  the  pay  and  related  bene- 
fits are  excellent.  You'll  start  with  good  pay  and 
allowances;  academic  and  technical  training  oppor- 
tunities; 30  days  of  paid  vacation  each  year;  free 


Full  Tuition 

Lab  Fees 
$100  a  month 


medical  and  dental  care;  recreational  facilities;  low 
cost  insurance;  commissary  and  exchange  privileges; 
and  more  advantages. 

In  return  for  the  AFROTC  scholarship  or  train- 
ing, you  are  expected  to  maintain  a  high  level  of 
scholastic  excellence  and  agree  to  remain  on  active 
duty  with  the  Air  Force  for  a  minimum  of  four  years. 
A  limited  active-duty  opportunity  is  also  there 
for  highly  qualified  non-Air  Force  ROTC 
graduates.  Graduates  whose  degree  ap- 
pears on  the  list  may  apply  for  officer 
training.  Successful  applicants  will  at- 
tend a  12 -week  Officer  Iraining  School 
located  in  San  Antonio,  Texas.  Gradu- 
ates of  the  school  receive  an  Air  Force 
commission  and  are  on  the  way  to  chal- 
lenging jobs  as  Air  Force  officers. 
Check  the  list  again  and  for  more  information 
visit  your  campus  Air  Force  ROTC  representative  or 
your  nearest  Air  Force  recruiter.  For  more  informa- 
tion or  the  name  of  an  ROTC  representative  or  Air 
Force  recruiter  send  in  the  coupon  or  call  toll  free: 
800-447-4700  (in  Illinois:  800-322-4400).  When  call- 
ing please  specify  your  interest  either  in  Air  Force 
ROTC  or  Officer  Iraining  School. 


If  your  major  is  listed  here,  it  could  be  worth  a  lot  to  you. 


Aeronautical  Engineering 

Aerospace  Engineering 

Architecture 

Architectural  Engineering 

Astronautical  Engineering 

Chemical  Engineering 

Chemistry 

Civil  Engineering 

Computer  Technology/Science 

Electrical  Engineering 

General  Engineering 

Industrial  Engineering 

Mathematics 

Mechanical  Engineering 

Meteorology 

Nuclear  Engineering 

Physics 

Space  Physics  Engineering 


AIR  FORCE  OPPORTUNITIES  CENTER  2-EC-47 

P.O.  BOX  AF 
PEORIA,  IL  61614 

I  would  like  more  information  on  opportunities  for  Science 
and  Engineering  students  and  graduates.  I  am  interested  in 
(check  one)  Air  Force  ROTC Air  Force  Officer  Train- 
ing School 


Name. 


.Sex  DM    DF 


Address. 
City 


(Please  Print) 


State. 


ZIP 


Date  of  Births 


.Phone  number. 


(Furnish  college  or  high  school  information.) 
College Major Graduation  date. 


High  SchooL 


.Graduation  date 


Air  Force  ROTC-  Gateway  to  a  great  way  of  life 


3  On  the  hill 

4  Proposed  revisions  to  Association  Constitution  and  Bylaws 

8  Helping  you  find  your  next  job 

Introducing  the  brand-new  career  package  put  together  by  Phil 
Ryan,  '65,  and  a  committee  of  dedicated  alumni. 

12  Who  is  the  WPI  student? 

A  look  at  the  backgrounds  and  attitudes  of  WPI  freshmen  over 
the  last  four  years,  and  profiles  of  n  ine  interesting  and  inter- 
ested students. 

18  Mike  Murphy  —  Marathon  Man 

What's  it  feel  I  ike  to  enter  the  Boston  Marathon  —  you '  ve  only 
run  one  marathon  in  you  r  I  ife  before  —  and  fin  ish  36th  out  of  a 
field  of  3,000+? 

20  Nils 

Inaugurating  a  series  of  profiles  of  WPI  campus  personalities. 

22  Your  class  and  others 

23  High  school  honors  two  WPI  alumni 

25  WPI's  man  in  charge  at  Chevrolet  engineering 

27  Working  towards  safer  buildings 

28  We're  missing  a  few  people. . . 
32  Completed  careers 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen,  Jr., 
'51 ,  chairman:  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57;  Leonard 
Brzozowski,  74;  RobertC.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried 
T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev. 
Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45. 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts 

Printing:  The  House  of  Offset,  Somerville, 
Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  editorial 
content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor,  WPI 
JOURNAL,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609  (phone  617- 
753-1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  publ  ished  for  the  Alumn  i 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute. 
Copyright©  1977  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  publ  ished  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December,  Feb- 
ruary, and  April.  Second  Class  postage  paid  at 
Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please 
send  Form  3579  to  Alumni  Association,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  J.  H.  McCabe,  '68 
R.  A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members- at-large:  W.  A. 
Julian.  '49;  W.  B.  Dennen,  Jr.,  '51 ;  J.  A.  Palley, 
'46;  J.  L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman;  L.  H. 
White,  '41;  G.A.Anderson,  '51;  H.  I.Nelson, 
'54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


K5k>- 

^  F^1 

vtS9£ 

HJ 


.^»l 


u 


4  &MBK 


~^Vl 


A**: 


»*S 


>%* 


Vs*^; 


/fek:*: 


■H 


i 


at  v 


Lt  kj*Jl  L 


WPI  —  Worcester's  new 
cultural  center 

In  the  early  1950's,  an  Alumni  Associa- 
tion committee  organized  a  musical  eve- 
ning in  an  effort  to  bring  cultural  pro- 
gramming to  the  WPI  Campus.  Two  of 
the  great  singers  of  the  time  gave  a  mag- 
nificent performance  in  Alden  Memorial 
for  25  people.  That  ended  the  experiment 
for  years  to  come. 

Today,  however,  WPI  is  regarded  as  a 
center  for  cultural  programming 
throughout  the  Worcester  Community. 
The  person  most  directly  responsible  is 
Bernard  H.  Brown,  Associate  Dean  of 
Student  Affairs  who  modestly  attributes 
success  to  broad  student  participation. 

This  college  year,  99  performances  will 
be  given  on  the  WPI  campus  running  the 
full  gamut  from  chamber  music  to  hard 
rock.  Many  are  free  and  open  to  the  pub- 
lic. The  Spectrum  and  Cinematech  series 
represent  the  largest  share  of  these  extra- 
curricular offerings.  In  addition,  the  Lens 
and  Lights  Club  schedules  a  variety  of 
film  fare  throughout  the  year.  Student 
social  committee  concerts  provide  most 
of  the  performances  of  currently  popular 
groups.  The  student  Coffee  House  and  the 
Pub  provide  opportunities  for  local  groups 
and  amateurs  just  getting  started  to  enjoy 
an  audience. 

Major  support  for  these  extracurricular 
programs  comes  horn  a  student- voted  ac- 
tivities tax  which  appears  on  the  tuition 
bill.  An  elected  student  Social  Commit- 
tee works  closely  with  Dean  Brown  in 
selecting  the  performances  for  the  coming 
year.  A  grant  for  the  National  Endow- 
ment for  the  Arts  has  also  helped  bring 
(performing  groups  to  the  campus.  By  join- 
Ling  with  other  colleges  in  the  Worcester 
'Consortium  for  Higher  Education,  WPI 
has  been  able  to  share  expenses  for  travel- 
ling groups.  Working  with  Clark  and  Holy 
Cross,  WPI  has  brought  to  Worcester  this 
year  a  dance  band,  a  rock  group,  a  mime,  a 


chamber  music  group  and  a  classical 
guitarist,  all  well  received. 

Some  groups  have  come  to  WPI  to 
participate  in  Intersession,  conducting 
workshops  for  interested  students  during 
the  day  with  performances  for  anyone  in 
the  evening. 

The  Cinematech  series  offers  a  variety 
of  movies  not  shown  on  the  commercial 
screen.  Some  are  old  time  classics,  others 
noted  foreign  films.  Assisting  Dean 
Brown  in  this  program  is  Mrs.  Minnie 
Levenson  now  retired  from  the  Worcester 
Art  Museum  staff  and  for  many  years  in 
charge  of  their  film  program. 

In  addition  to  these  many  perform- 
ances, the  Gordon  Library's  gallery  area 
and  entrance  windows  feature  outstand- 
ing exhibits  of  art,  photography  and  WPI 
memorabilia  which  change  every  few 
weeks. 

The  organizers  of  that  early  attempt  to 
bring  culture  to  WPI  can  feel  redeemed. 
Their  idea  was  just  ahead  of  its  time. 
Today's  events  are  well  attended.  Not 
every  program  appeals  to  every  student 
but  they  are  planned  to  provide  some- 
thing for  everyone.  If  students  didn't  like 
the  fare,  it  wouldn't  be  here.  After  all,  it's 
their  money. 


The  Cluverius  Society  gets 
going  again 

The  Cluverius  Society  hasn't  been  very 
active  in  recent  years.  Essentially  an 
alumni  inter-fraternity  council,  it  is  com- 
posed of  members  of  alumni  housing  cor- 
poration boards,  and  it  tries  to  foster 
communication  and  cooperation  among 
the  fraternity  corporations. 

But  there  is  renewed  interest  in  getting 
the  group  going  again  (Joel  P.  Green,  '69; 
Bennett  E.  Gordon,  Jr.,  '65;  and  Walter  E. 
Knapp,  '38),  and  a  nominating  committee 
is  seeking  new  officers.  If  you're  inter- 
ested in  holding  office  in  the  Society,  or 
you  can  suggest  some  potential  nominees 


for  president,  vice  president,  and 
secretary-treasurer,  please  write  Joel  P. 
Green,  14  Harvard  Street,  Worcester,  MA 
01608,  no  later  than  June  15.  Please  indi- 
cate your  fraternity,  class  year,  and  your 
interest  and/or  experience  in  the  WPI 
fraternity  system. 


An  appreciation 

Every  magazine,  the  WPI  Journal  in- 
cluded, has  a  life  and  a  personality  of  its 
own  that  reflects,  in  some  way,  the  lives 
and  personalities  of  all  those  who  help  put 
it  together.  When  one  of  those  people 
leaves,  the  magazine's  character  is  bound 
to  change  in  some  degree. 

One  of  those  people  has  left,  though 
you  wouldn't  know  it  from  reading  the 
masthead.  Robert  Kerr,  sales  manager  of 
Davis  Press,  died  on  April  20  in  Worcester 
following  an  illness.  For  fourteen  years 
Bob  watched  over  the  production  of  the 
Journal  as  Davis  printed  it  and,  more 
recently,  typeset  the  copy.  Bob  was  a 
special  friend  of  mine,  quiet,  warm,  and 
one  of  the  gentlest  people  I've  ever 
known.  During  the  six  years  I've  been 
editor  of  the  Journal,  we  worked  together 
on  24  issues.  This  is  the  last  of  those. 

I  learned  a  lot  from  Bob  about  dealing 
with  this  magazine  and  its  problems,  a  lot 
about  the  craft  of  publishing . . .  and  a  good 
deal  more  about  a  really  wonderful  per- 
son. Bob  Kerr  was  an  important  part  of  the 
Journal,  and  I  don't  think  working  on  it  is 
going  to  be  quite  the  same  for  me  again. 
I'm  gonna  miss  you,  Bob. 

—  Russell  Kay 


WPI  Journal /ApriM  977/ 3 


Formal  notice  is  hereby  given  that  the  Annual  Meeting  of  the 
YSTI  Alumni  Association  will  be  called  to  order  on  Saturday,  June 
11,  197?  in  Worcester,  Massachusetts  at  l:00p.m.attheHiggins 
House  on  the  WPI  campus  to  conduct  the  following  business: 
ratify  the  actions  of  the  Alumni  Council  for  the  past  year,  vote  on 
the  By-laws  changes  enumerated  below,  and  to  conduct  such 
other  business  as  may  legally  come  before  the  meeting. 

Apnl  25.  1 9T7  Stephen  f.  Hebert 

Sec  re  tary-  Treasurer 

Proposed  revisions  to  the  Constitution  & 
By-laws  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association, 
to  be  effective  September  1 ,  1976 

Existing  Proposed 

CONSTITUTION 

ARTICLE  VI  —  ALUMNI  (CHAPTERS)  CLUBS 


hi  1.  Alumni  Chapters  maybe 
established  a*  specified  in  the  By- 
laws 


Section  1.  Alumni  Chapters  may  be 
established  as  specified  in  the  By- 
laws 


BY-LAWS 

II  MEETINGS 


;i  4.  The  Executive  Committee 
•he  Alumni 
Council  shall  meet  with  the  Presi- 
dent ol  WPI  and  selected  adminis- 
trative sum  members  at  least  quar- 
terly todiscuss  and  coordinate  mat- 
ters ol  mutual  concern  The  agenda 

ich  meetings  shall  be  lointlv 
prepared  by  the  President  ot  WPI 
and  the  President  ot  the  Alumni 
Association 


Section  4.  The  Executive  Committee 
|see  Article  XII  of  the  Alumni 
Council  shall  meet  with  the  Presi- 
dent ot  WPI  and  selected  adminis- 
trative staff  members  at  least  annu- 
ally to  discuss  and  coordinate  mat- 
ters ot  mutual  concern  The  agenda 
tor  such  meetings  shall  be  jointly- 
prepared  by  the  President  of  WPI 
and  the  President  ot  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association. 


Ill  ALUMNI  (CHAPTERS!  CTJ/KS 


u  I.  An  Alumni  Chapter  mav  be 

established  in  anv  suitable  area  bv 
the  Alumni  Council  upon  written 

ri  ot  not  less  than  titteen 
members  of  the  Alumni  Ass. 

residing  in  of  havinga  business 
jddrcss  within  the  area,  provided 
the  ;  ItC  that  thev  will 

under  the 
uniform  constitution  tor  Alumni 
he  Alumni 
uncil   Each  Alum: 
»hall  have  the  powers  and  prr. 
»<t  forth  in  the  uniform  constmi 
lot  Alumni  lud 

inn  •  M  in  the  Alumni 


Seed  OB  1.  An  Alumni  Club  may  be 

established  in  any  area  bv  the 
Alumni  Council  according  to  or- 
ganizational guidelines  as  estab- 
lished by  the  Alumni  Council  Each 
Alumni  Clubshall  have  the  right  to 
representation  on  the  Alumni 
t  iiiiiki]   It  shall  be  the  responsibil- 
ity of  the  chairperson  ot  each  Club 
to  assure  attendance  by  the  Club  s 
representative  or  alternate  .it  etch 
meeting  ot  the  Alumni  Council 


^cluuu  &■   uk  .-u  Lilian  \-uuiicii  nia\ 

disband  any  Alumni  Chapter  which 
remains  inactive  for  three  consecu- 
tive years,  or  which  fails  to  operate 
in  accordance  with  the  Constitu- 
tion and  By-laws  of  the  Alumni 
Association.  Notice  of  such  in- 
tended action  shall  be  mailed  to  all 
members  of  the  Alumni  Chapter  at 
their  last  known  address  and  an 
opportunity  for  a  hearing  shall  be 
given.  Should  any  Alumni  Chapter 
be  disbanded,  such  action  shall  be 
under  the  direction  of  the  Alumni 
Association  Executive  Committee, 
and  all  monies,  records  and  prop- 
erty shall  revert  to  the  Alumni  As- 
sociation. 

Section  3.  The  purpose  of  Alumni 
Chapters  shall  be  to  form  working 
and  social  bonds  in  the  best  inter- 
ests of  the  Alumni,  WPI,  and  the 
Alumni  Association.  Satellite  clubs 
or  districts  may  be  formed  within 
the  Alumni  Chapters,  at  the  discre- 
tion of  the  officers  of  the  Alumni 
Chapter,  for  the  purpose  of  improv- 
ing and  or  expanding  communica- 
tions, activities  or  relations. 

Section  4.  For  the  purpose  of  Alumni 
Council  representation,  an  alum- 
nus may  be  a  member  of  only  one 
Alumni  Chapter,  normally  in  the 
encompassing  area  within  which  he 
resides,  or  if  requested  in  writing, 
the  one  within  which  he  has  his 
business  address. 


t^uuu  ^..   nit  .-viuiuui  \_*uuuv_u  may  K 

disband  any  Alumni  Club  which 
becomes  inactive  for  an  extensive  U 
period  of  time.  Following  such  ac-  j 
tion  by  the  Council,  members  of  th  . 
Alumni  Club  shall  be  informed  of  R 
the  action  by  mail  at  their  last 
known  address.  The  disbanding  of 
an  Alumni  Club  shall  be  done  undej 
the  direction  of  the  Alumni  Assoctj 
ation  Executive  Committee  and    , 
any  monies,  records  or  property- 
shall  revert  to  the  Alumni  Associatl 
tion  in  care  of  the  Alumni  Sec- 
retary-Treasurer. 


Section  3.  The  purpose  of  Alumni 
Clubs  shall  be  to  form  social  bonds 
and  programs,  and  to  serve  as  a 
communications  link,  to  best  serv 
the  interests  of  alumni  in  an  area, 
WPI,  and  the  Alumni  Association 


Section  4.  For  the  purpose  of  Alumn 
Council  representation,  an  alum- 
nus may  be  a  member  of  only  one 
Alumni  Club.  Such  Clubshall 
normally-  be  the  one  encompassin) 
the  area  within  which  the  alumnu 
resides,  or,  if  requested  in  writing, 
the  Club  area  where  the  alumnus' 
business  address  is  located. 


IV.     ALUMNI  COUNCIL 


Section  1.  The  Alumni  Council  shall 
be  composed  of  Alumni  Chapter 
representatives,  the  immediate 
Past-President  of  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation, members-at-large  of  the 
Executive  Committee,  officers  of 
the  Alumni  Association  and  all 
alumni  members  of  the  Alumni 
Fund  Board.  Each  Alumni  Chapter 
shall  be  entitled  to  elect  at  least  one 
Alumni  Council  representative. 
Each  Alumni  Chapter  containing 
more  than  two  hundred  members 
shall  be  entitled  to  elect  one  addi- 
tional Alumni  Council  representa- 
tive for  each  two  hundred  members 
or  major  fraction  thereof.  In  the 
temporary  disability  of  ariy  Alumni 
Council  representative,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Alumni  Chapter  shall 
designate  an  alternate  to  attend  the 
meeting. 

Section  2.  The  term  of  each  Alumni 
Chapterrepresentativeshallbetwo 
years,  commencing  immediately 
after  the  Annual  meeting  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  Alumni 
Council  representatives  shall  be  el- 
igible for  re-election  tor  one  addi- 
tional consecutive  term,  and  any 
number  of  non-consecutive  terms 
thereatter 

Each  Alumni  Chapter  shall  inform 
the  Secretary  Treasurer  of  the 
Alumni  Association  promptly  ot 
the  election  ot  an  Alumni  Council 

representative  Die  resignation  ot 
any  member  shall  be  addressed  to 
the  Alumni  Council  and  sent  to  the 
Secretary  Treasure!  of  the  Alumni 

Association 

Members  ol  the  Alumni  Council 
may  he  reimbursed  tor  out  ot  pocket 

dilutes  incurred  In  al 

tendance  It  scheduled  meetings 


Section  1.  The  Alumni  Council  shall 
be  composed  of  all  voting  member: 
of  the  Alumni  Association  Execu- 
tive Committee;  all  alumni  mem- 
bers of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board;  om 
representative  from  each  estab- 
lished Alumni  Club;  one  repre- 
sentative from  each  graduating 
class  from  the  most  recent  through 
and  including  the  50th  reunion 
class,-  and  one  representative  from 
the  50-year  associates  group  repre- 
senting all  classes  who  have  cele- 
brated their  50th  anniversaries.  In 
the  temporary  disability  of  any 
Alumni  Council  representative,  th 
Chairperson  of  an  Alumni  Club  or 
Class  shall  designate  an  alternate  n 
attend  the  meeting. 


Section  2.  The  term  of  each  Alumni 
Club  and  class  representative  shall 
be  three  years,  commencing  im- 
mediately after  the  Annual  meetin 
of  the  Alumni  Association  Alumn 
Council  representatives  shall  not 
be  eligible  to  serve  a  successive 
term,  however,  they  may  be  re- 
elected after  a  minimum  of  one  yea 
has  passed  since  their  term  was 
completed. 

Each  Alumni  Club  and  class  shall 
inform  the  Secretary  I  reasuna  oi 
the  Alumni  Association  promptly 
ot  the  selection  ot  an  Alumni 
Council  representative  The  rcMg 
nation  of  any  Council  member  sh.i 
be  address ed-ro  the  Alumni  Cound 
and  sent  to  the  Secretary  rreasura 
ot  the  Alumni  Association  Mem 
hers  of  the  Alumni  Council  may  hi 
reimbursed  at  the  option  of  the 
Executive  Committee  tor  out  ot 
pocket  expenditures  incurred  bs  tl 
tend. nice  at  scheduled  Alumni 

i  mmcil  meetings 


,  ection  3.  The  Alumni  Council  shall        Section  3.The  Alumni  Council  shall 


report  to  the  Alumni  Association  at 
least  once  in  each  year,  either  in  the 
lournal  or  by  other  mailing,  on  its 
activities  and  the  financial  affairs  of 
the  Alumni  Association. 


report  to  the  Alumni  Association 
at  least  once  in  each  year  on  its 
activities. 


X.     BOARDS  AND  COMMITTEES 


.ection  1.  The  Executive  Committee 
and  the  Alumni  Fund  Board  shall  be 
established  (see  Articles  XI  and  XII). 
Additional  boards  or  committees 
may  be  appointed  and  maintained 
by  the  Alumni  Council  or  the 
Executive  Committee.  The  Alumni 
Council  may  discontinue  any  ap- 
pointed board  or  committee  tem- 
porarily or  permanently  or  make 
changes  in  its  organization  or 
duties.  The  Alumni  Council  or 
Executive  Committee  may  delegate 
to  the  Alumni  Association  Presi- 
dent the  formation  and  operation  of 
any  committee. 


ection  3.  Unless  otherwise  stipu- 
lated in  these  By-laws  or  by  action 
of  the  Alumni  Council,  each  board 
and  standing  or  special  committee 
shall  submit  to  the  Executive 
Committee  and  Alumni  Council  a 
complete,  but  concise,  report  of  its 
activities,  and  an  account  of  its  use 
of  funds  and  other  property,  at  the 
times  requested  by  the  Secretary/ 
Treasurer,  but  in  no  case  less  fre- 
quently than  annually. 


Section  1.  The  Executive  Committee 
and  the  Alumni  Fund  Board  shall  be 
established  (see  Articles  XI  and  XII). 
Standing  Committees  to  carry  out 
specific  functions  shall  also  be  es- 
tablished and  shall  include  a  Cita- 
tions Committee;  an  Investments 
Committee;  a  Nominating  Com- 
mittee (see  Article  XIII);  a  Publica- 
tions Committee  (see  Article  XX);  a 
Student-Alumni  Relations  Com- 
mitee;  and  a  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee (see  Article  XIV).  In  addi- 
tion, Standing  Committees  and 
Task  Forces  may  be  appointed  from 
time  to  time  by  the  Alumni  Coun- 
cil. In  the  interim  between  Council 
meetings,  Standing  Committees 
and  Task  Forces  may  be  created  by 
the  Executive  Committee,  subject 
to  approval  by  the  Alumni  Council 
at  their  next  meeting.  Unless 
otherwise  stipulated  in  these  By- 
laws, committee  chairpeople  shall 
be  appointed  annually  by  the 
Alumni  Association  President,  sub- 
ject to  approval  by  the  officers  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  The  Alumni 
Council  may  discontinue  any  Task 
Force  or  Committee  temporarily  or 
permanently,  or  make  changes  in 
its  organization  or  duties.  The 
Alumni  Council  or  Executive 
Committee  may  delegate  to  the 
Alumni  Association  President  the 
formation  and  operation  of  any 
committee. 

Section  3.  Unless  otherwise  stipu- 
lated in  these  By-laws  or  by  action 
of  the  Alumni  Council,  each  Stand- 
ing Committee  and  Task  Force 
shall  submit  to  the  Executive 
Committee  and  Alumni  Council  a 
complete  and  concise  report  of  its 
activities,  together  with  an  account 
of  its  use  of  funds  and  other  prop- 
erty, at  times  requested  by  the 
Secretary/Treasurer  and  at  least  an- 
nually. 


XI.    EXECUTIVE  COMMITTEE 


lection  1.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  have  for  members  the  officers 
of  the  Alumni  Association,  the 
immediate  Past-President  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  the  Chairman 
of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board,  and  four 
:     members-at- large  chosen  from 
Alumni  Association  membership. 
The  President  of  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation shall  be  the  Chairman  of  the 
Committee. 

At  least  one  and  not  more  than  two 
of  the  members-at-large  shall  be 
alumni  trustees  of  the  College  and 
all  shall,  upon  their  election,  be- 
come voting  members  of  the 
Alumni  Council.  Two  members- 
at-large  shall  be  elected  each  year 
[     for  two-year  terms.  Each  shall  be 
•     eligible  to  succeed  himself  for  one 
'     additional  term,  even  though  he 
may  have  served  a  partial  term  im- 
mediately prior  to  his  first  full  term. 
I     A  member-at-large  shall  not  beeli- 
|     gible  for  re-election  until  after  the 
expiration  of  at  least  one  year  from 

[the  close  of  his  last  term,  except  in 
such  instances  as  he  may  become 


Section  1.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  have  as  voting  members  the 
officers  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
the  immediate  Past-President  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  the  Chairper- 
son of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board,  the 
Chairperson  of  each  Standing 
Committee,  and  four  members-at- 
large  chosen  from  Alumni  Associa- 
tion membership.  In  no  case  shall 
any  person  have  more  than  one 
vote.  In  addition,  there  shall  be  a 
non-voting  WPI  faculty  member 
recommended  jointly  by  the 
Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer  and 
the  WPI  Dean  of  the  Faculty,  sub- 
ject to  nomination  by  the  Nominat- 
ing Committee  of  the  Alumni  As- 
sociation and  election  by  the 
Alumni  Council.  The  President  of 
the  Alumni  Association  shall  be 
Chairperson  of  the  Executive 
Committee.  The  Alumni 
Secretary/Treasurer  shall  be  the 
Secretary  of  the  Executive  Com- 
mittee. 


an  officer  or  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion immediately  upon  completion 
of  his  Executive  Committee  mem- 
bership. Vacancies  which  occur 
other  than  by  the  expiration  of 
terms  shall  be  filled  by  the  Execu- 
tive Committee  for  the  period  in- 
tervening between  creation  of  the 
vacancy  and  the  next  Alumni 
Council  meeting. 

Section  2.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  meet  at  the  call  of  its  Chair- 
man or  upon  written  request  of  four 
or  more  of  its  members  delivered  to 
the  Alumni  Association  Secre- 
tary/Treasurer. It  shall  hold  at  least 
four  meetings  each  year,  exclusive 
of  the  four  required  meetings  with 
the  President  of  WPI  and  his 
selected  staff  members.  A  quorum 
of  the  Executive  Committee  shall 
be  six  members. 

Section  4.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  keep  alumni  and  Alumni 
Chapters  informed  of  their  respon- 
sibilities with  regard  to  nomination 
of  term  members  to  the  WPI  Board 
of  trustees. 

Section  5.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall,  after  consultation  with  the 
Alumni  Fund  Board,  recommend  to 
the  Nominating  Committee  nomi- 
nations for  election  to  the  Fund 
Board. 

Section  6.  Whenever  necessary  be- 
tween meetings  of  the  Alumni 
Council,  the  Executive  Committee 
shall  take  any  action  for  which  the 
Alumni  Council  has  authority,  ex- 
cept as  restricted  by  these  By-laws, 
but  shall  report  all  its  actions  to  the 
Alumni  Council. 


At  least  one  member  of  the  Execu- 
tive Committee  shall  be  an  alumni 
term  trustee  of  the  College.  Two 
members-at-large  shall  be  elected 
each  year  for  two-year  terms.  Each 
shall  be  eligible  to  succeed  himself 
for  one  additional  term,  even 
though  he  may  have  served  a  partial 
term  immediately  prior  to  his  first 
full  term.  A  member-at-large  shall 
not  be  eligible  for  re-election  until 
at  least  one  year  after  the  close  of 
his  last  term,  except  in  such  in- 
stances as  he  may  become  an  officer 
of  the  Alumni  Association  im- 
mediately upon  completion  of  his 
Executive  Committee  member- 
ship. 

The  non-voting  faculty  member 
shall  be  elected  to  a  three-year  term 
and  may  not  be  re-elected  as  a 
member  of  the  Executive  Commit- 
tee for  a  period  of  five  years  follow- 
ing conclusion  of  his  term.  Vacan- 
cies which  occur  other  than  by  the 
expiration  of  terms  shall  be  filled  by 
the  Executive  Committee  for  the 
period  between  creation  of  the  va- 
cancy and  the  next  Alumni  Council 
meeting. 

Section  2.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  meet  at  the  call  of  its  Chair- 
person or  upon  written  request  of 
four  or  more  of  its  members  deliv- 
ered to  the  Alumni  Association 
Secretary/Treasurer.  It  shall  hold  at 
least  four  meetings  each  year.  A 
quorum  of  the  Executive  Commit- 
tee shall  be  a  majority  of  the  mem- 
bers, at  least  two  of  whom  shall  be 
officers  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Section  4.  The  Executive  Committee 
shall  assure  that  all  alumni  are  kept 
informed  of  their  responsibilities 
regarding  the  nomination  of 
Alumni  term  members  to  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees. 


Section  5.  (Deleted) 
Section  6.  (Deleted) 

XIH.     NOMINATIONS  AND  ELECTIONS 


Section  1.  Nominations  for  all  offi- 
cers, for  members-at-large  of  the 
Executive  Committee  and  for 
members  of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board 
shall  be  made  by  a  Nominating 
Committee  of  five  members  of  the 
Alumni  Association  appointed  by 
the  Alumni  Association  President 
not  less  than  two  months  before  the 
date  for  election.  At  least  three 
members  of  this  committee  shall 
not  be  members  of  the  Alumni 
Council. 


Section  5.  Each  Alumni  Chapter  shall 
elect  its  member(s)  of  the  Alumni 
Council  at  a  regular  Chapter  meet- 
ing, or  a  Chapter  meeting  duly 
called  for  that  purpose,  or  by  mail 
ballot.  The  name  and  address  of 
each  member  elected  shall  be  sent 
to  the  Secretary/Treasurer  of  the 
Alumni  Association  within  thirty 
days  of  his  election. 


Section  1.  Nominations  for  all  offi- 
cers, for  members-at-large  of  the 
Executive  Committee,  for  the  Fac- 
ulty Member  of  the  Executive 
Committee,  for  alumni  members  of 
the  Alumni  Fund  Board  and  for 
members  of  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee  shall  be  made  by  a 
Nominating  Committee  of  five 
members  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion appointed  by  the  Alumni  As- 
sociation President  at  least  two 
months  prior  to  the  election  date. 
At  least  one  member  of  this  com- 
mittee shall  not  be  a  member  of  the 
Alumni  Council  and  no  two  mem- 
bers may  be  from  the  same  class. 

Section  5.  Each  Alumni  Club  and  each 
Alumni  Class  shall  select  its  repre- 
sentative to  the  Alumni  Council 
and  forward  the  name  and  address 
of  such  representative  to  the 
Secretary/Treasurer  of  the  Alumni 
Association  wi  thin  thirty  days  of 
the  selection. 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/5 


XIV         .NUMliNAllUrS  Ur  ALU.»liM  .ML.UDtRJ 

OF  THE  BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES 
OF  THE  WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  INSTITUTE 


Section  3.  A  candidate  may  be  pro- 
posed to  the  Alumni  Council  tor 
consideration  for  nomination  as  an 
Alumni  Trustee  in  any  of  three 
manners. 

A  Trustee  Search  Committee  shall 
be  established  and  charged  wi  th  the 
responsibility  of  annually  propos- 
ing to  the  Alumni  Council  at  least 
one  candidate  for  each  existing  va- 
cancy for  consideration  as  nom- 
inee^! as  Alumni  Trustees.  The 
committee  shall  consist  of  mem- 
bers, representing  rive  age  groups, 
as  closely  as  possible,  beginning 
with  the  most  recent  graduating 
class  and  nine  classes  before  it  and 
going  back  in  decades  until  the  old- 
est group  consists  of  the  40th  An- 
niversary class  and  all  older  classes. 
One  member  of  the  committee 
shall  be  elected  annually  by  the 
Alumni  Council  for  a  five  year 
term. 

Alumni  chapters  mav  propose  can- 
didates to  the  Alumni  Council  by 
submitting  a  signed  proposal,  to- 
gether with  a  statement  bv  the  can- 
didate ot  his  willingness  to  serve. 
The  proposal  must  contain  at  least 
titteen  1 1 51  signatures  of  Chapter 
members  and  must  be  submitted  to 
the  Trustee  Search  Committee,  in 
care  of  the  Secretary  Treasurer  of 
the  Alumni  Association,  at  least 
two  months  prior  to  the  meeting  of 
the  Alumni  Council  at  which  the 
nominees  will  be  selected 

Any  group  of  at  least  twenty-five 
.ilumni  may  propose  a  candi- 
date bv  submitting  a  signed  pro- 
posal, together  with  a  statement  by 
the  candidate  of  his  willingness  to 
serve  The  proposal  must  be  sub- 
mitted to  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee,  in  care  of  the 
Secretary  Treasurer  ot  the  Alumni 

nation,  at  least  two  months 
prior  to  the  meeting  of  the  Alumni 
Council  at  which  the  nominee(s) 
will  be  selected 


Section  3.  A  candidate  may  be  pro- 
posed to  the  Alumni  Council  for 
consideration  for  nomination  as  an 
Alumni  Term  Trustee  either  by  pe- 
nnon or  by  nommation  of  the  Trus- 
tee Search  Committee. 

Any  Alumni  Club  or  any  Alumni 
Class,  or  any  group  of  alumni,  may 
propose  candidates  to  the  Alumni 
Council  by  petition.  Such  petition 
shall  be  a  signed  proposal,  together 
with  a  statement  by  the  candidate 
of  his  willingness  to  serve.  The  peti- 
uon  must  contain  at  least  fifteen 
[15]  signatures  of  members  of  the 
Alumni  Association  and  must  be 
submitted  to  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee,  in  care  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

A  Trustee  Search  Committee  shall 
be  established  and  charged  with  the 
responsibility  of  assuring  that  there 
are  at  least  four  candidates  for  the 
three  positions  in  consideration 
annually.  The  committee  shall 
consist  of  five  members,  represent- 
ing five  age  groups  as  closely  as 
possible,  beginning  with  the  most 
recent  graduating  class  and  nine 
classes  before  it  and  going  back  in 
decades  until  the  eldest  group  con- 
sists of  the  40th  anniversary  class 
and  all  older  classes.  One  member 
of  the  committee  shall  be  nomi- 
nated annually  by  the  Nominating 
Committee  and  elected  annually  by 
the  Alumni  Council  for  a  five-year 
term.  The  Chairperson  of  the  com- 
mittee shall  be  appointed  by  the 
President  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion annually  from  among  the 
membership  of  the  committee. 

All  candidates  for  alumni  term 
trustee  positions  shall  be  con- 
firmed, shall  have  agreed  to  serve, 
and  in  the  case  of  petitions  shall 
have  a  valid  petition  in  the  hands  of 
the  Secretary  Treasurer  of  the 
Alumni  Association  at  least  two 
months  prior  to  the  meeting  of  the 
Alumni  Council  at  which  the  can- 
didates will  be  nominated. 


A  delightful  evening  with  the 


Sponsored  by  the  WPI  Clubs  of 
Boston  and  Worcester 

Friday,  July  15, 1977 
8:00  p.m. 


A  limited  number  of  tickets  at 
$9.50  each,  will  be  available 
until  June  17th.  Make  your  res- 
ervations by  writing  to 

"Night  At  The  Pops" 

Alumni  Office 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Institute  Road 

Worcester,  MA  01609 

or  by  calling  (617)  753-1411, 
Ext.  204  or  209. 


"Would  you  mind  repeating  the  pan  between 
(  kxxl Morning,  students'  and  'Class  dismissed'l" 


The  human  body  comes  in  a 
totally  engineered  package* 

So  should  your  safety  program. 


Just  about  anyone 
can  sell  you  a 
pair  of  gloves  or 
a  pair  of  goggles. 
A  hearing  pro- 
tector or  a  hard 
hat.  And  up  to  a 
point,  that's  okay. 

Norton,  on  the 
other  hand,  can  do 
a  lot  more  than  sell 
you  individual  products 
for  individual  needs.  In  fact, 
Norton  looks  at  safety  pretty  much 
the  way  you  do.  In  terms  of  total- 
worker-safety  in  a  cost-effective, 
totally  engineered  program. 

Example.  Isn't  it  better  to  let  one 
respirator  face  piece  do  the  work  of 
many?  Precisely  the  logic  behind 
Norton's  Protex®  line  of  respirators, 
with  over  a  dozen  interchangeable 
cartridges.  Protection,  plus  versatility. 

Example.  A  hard  hat  should  do 
more  than  just  protect  workers'  heads 
So  Norton  hard  hats  are  designed  to 
allow  snap-on  of  face  shields, 
ear  muffs  or  welding  helmets. 

Example.  Because  workers  can 


always  forget 
earplug  sizes, 
Norton  Com- 
Fit®  earplugs 
are  now  color- 
coded  by  size. 
Safety  super- 
vision and  stock 
reordering 
made  easy. 
Example.  Wher- 
ever turnover  is  high, 
the  cost  of  safety  glasses 
can  quickly  climb  out  of  sight. 
So  Norton  offers  two  new  quality 
lines  of  pianos  which  meet  ANSI 
Standards,  each  with  its  own  unique 
advantages:  the  2800  Series  with 
multi-fit  spatula  temples  or  the  2000 
Series  for  economical  eye  protection. 

Norton  has  more  cost-effective 
solutions  to  safety  problems  than 
anyone  else  in  the  business.  Plus  a 
nationwide  network  of  professional 
safety  distributors.  Just  what  you 
should  expect  from  the  one  company 
that  puts  total  safety  first.  Norton 
Company,  Safety  Products  Division, 
Cranston,  R.I.  02920. 


Respirators,  Safety  glasses,  Goggles,  Face  shields,  Hearing  protection.  Hard  hats,  Gloves,  First  aid,  Fall  protection,  Protectix  <e  clothing 


NORTON 


Helping  you 
find  your  next  job 


As  a  WPI  graduate,  there's  a  pretty  good  chance  you  got 
your  first  job  through  WPI  —  whether  the  Placement 
Office,  or  a  faculty  member,  or  an  alumnus,  or  the  Alumni 
Office.  Now  we'd  like  to  help  you  get  your  next  job. 

A  committee  of  the  Alumni  Association  has  been 
working  on  ways  to  help  alumni  with  planning  and 
managing  their  careers,  and  they've  put  together  a  program 
which  will  help  you  help  yourself  when  it  comes  to 
examining  your  career  options,  assessing  your  strengths, 
needs,  and  deciding  on  career  goals,  and  finding  a  job  that 
matches  those  goals. 

The  Committee  has  been  chaired  by  Phil  Ryan,  '65  who 
is  a  management  consultant  and  a  partner  in  the  firm  of 
N.F.  Bigelow  &  Co.,  Manchester,  NH.  Over  many  months 
he  worked  with  Greg  Backstrom  70;  Art  Pingalore,  '44 ; 
Phil  Puddington,  '59;  William  Rawstron,  '57;  Jeff  Shaw, 
'68;  and  Leon  Wendelowski,  '69.  Also  working  with  the 
gn  >up  were  Mike  Ahearn,  former  Assistant  Alumni  Direc- 
tor; William  Trask,  WPI  Director  of  Graduate  and  Career 
Plans;  and  Prof.  Robert  Hall,  WPI  Director  of  Continuing 
Education. 

I  ( '  tind  out  more  about  this  program,  the  Journal 
interviewed  Phil  Ryan,  Bill  Trask,  and  Steve  Hebert,  '66 
alumni  secretary. 


Journal:  How  does  this  current  plan  differ  from  those  we've 
announced  in  the  past,  since  all  have  been  aimed  at  helping 
alumni  in  their  careers! 

Steve  Hebert:  There's  a  significant  change.  Our  previous  areas 
concern  have  been  primarily  job  placement.  This  committee  h 
taken  the  more  encompassing  approach  to  counseling  people, 
helping  them  form  their  career  plans  and  create  directions  for 
looking  for  jobs,  without  trying  to  be  a  match-maker. 

Phil  Ryan:  The  program  has  three  parts  —  written  materials, 
seminars,  and  individual  counseling.  It  is  designed  to  assist  the 
individual  alumnus  in  (a)  evaluating  and  managing  his  or  her 
successful  career,  and  (b)  preparing  for  and  conducting  the  proce 
of  actually  changing  jobs. 

Bill  Trask:  In  the  past,  if  the  alumnus  didn't  come  into  the 
Placement  Office,  all  he  could  do  by  mail  was  to  request 
"Opportunities"  or  send  us  a  resume  and  we'd  try  to  develop 
leads.  Now,  with  this  package,  the  alumnus  regardless  of  wheth 
he's  in  Timbuktu  or  Worcester,  doesn't  even  have  to  approach 
the  Alumni  Office  or  the  Placement  Office  for  guidance  if  he  use 
the  material  presented  to  him. 


Journal:  So  it's  a  real  do-it-yourself  kit  that  puts  the  initiative  oi 
the  person  with  the  greatest  interest  in  the  situation} 

Phil  Ryan:  That's  exactly  the  point.  Career  management  or 
conducting  a  successful  job  campaign  cannot  be  done  by  some- 
oneelse;  it  has  to  he  done  by  the  individual  himself.  Whether  it's 
a  good  job  change  or  career  management,  it's  an  individual  task 
and  you  can't  have  somebody  do  it  for  you. 


8    April  197/    WPUournal 


journal:  Let  s get  aown  to  tne  nuts  ana  ooits  oj  tne  program,  /ust 
what  is  it  we  are  talking  about!  What  are  the  elements  of  this 
plan,  and  how  does  it  work! 

Phil  Ryan:  I  indicated  before  that  the  program  has  three  parts. 
Right  now  we're  ready  with  the  first  of  the  three.  We  have  put 
together  a  package  of  really  excellent  written  materials,  and  this 
is  our  main  thrust  now. 

You  see,  I  look  at  the  overall  program  as  being  a  marketing 
situation.  This  process  of  people  managing  their  careers  or  getting 
new  jobs  has  —  I  think  unfortunately  —  fallen  into  the  world  of 
placement  and  personnel,  when  in  fact  it's  a  marketing  problem, 
a  marketing  opportunity.  You  have  employers  who  are  looking  to 
fulfill  certain  needs,  and  you  have  people  with  certain  skills, 
attitudes,  expectations,  values,-  and  what's  needed  is  a  matching 
process.  So  we're  addressing  ourselves  to  the  individual  preparing 
himself  —  that  is,  the  product  —  to  be  marketable  to  employers. 
And  our  written  material  is  geared  toward,  first,  the  preparation, 
the  "advertising"  of  the  individual,  and  the  specific  process  of 
implementation. 

How  can  you  prepare  yourself,  both  in  terms  of  skills  and 
attitudes  ?  When  people  are  under  pressure  to  look  for  a  new  job  — 
either  because  their  present  job  is  being  phased  out,  or  because 
they  may  already  be  out  of  work  —  a  great  attitude-building 
process  is  necessary  to  successfully  complete  a  job  change.  The 
absence  of  a  positive  attitude  is  almost  death  knell  to  successfully 
changing  jobs. 

So  we  include  specific  do's  and  don'ts  about  job  searching.  We 
include  numerous  bibliographies:  executive  placement  and  per- 
sonnel firms,  general  reading  references  about  the  process,  and 
where  to  find  information  about  prospective  or  possible  em- 
ployers. One  of  the  key  things  is  being  properly  prepared  when 
you  go  to  market  your  product.  You  have  to  know  who  you 
should  be  talking  to.  We  help  you  learn  where  to  find  out  what 
you  need  to  know.  We  also  include  information  relating  to 
personal  and  family  needs,  how  to  find  and  use  office  and 
secretarial  assistance.  The  time  and  mental  commitment  re- 
quired, financial,  is  explained.  The  individual  has  to  make  a 
substantial  investment  of  time  and  effort  in  order  to  successfully 
manage  this  very  important  part  of  his  or  her  life. 

Journal:  That's  an  interesting  way  of  looking  at  the  job-search 
process  -  as  an  investment  in  yourself. 

Phil  Ryan:  People  sometimes  react  very  strangely  about  spending 
money  to  look  for  a  job.  Maybe  they've  panicked  about  what  they 
are  going  to  live  on  until  the  new  job  is  found.  But  you'll  see 
people  who  are  looking  for  a  job  paying  $  1 ,000  or  $2,000  a  month, 
and  they  will  refuse  to  spend  $50  or  so  to  get  their  resume 
decently  typed  and  duplicated.  Instead  they'll  do  it  on  their 
battered  portable  typewriter  and  get  copies  made  at  the  cheapest 
copying  machine  they  can  find.  They  fail  to  see  the  connection 
between  the  poor  impression  this  will  make  on  a  prospective 
employer  and  how  it  will  adversely  affect  their  chances  of  getting 
a  personal  interview  with  that  employer.  The  individual  has  to 
realize  that  he  needs  to  make  a  solid  investment  and  commit- 
ment in  himself  or  herself,  and  that  usually  includes  spending 
some  money  too. 


Phil  Ryan,  '65 

Journal:  Could  you  amplify  this  business  about  attitude! 
How  does  it  relate  to  finding  a  job! 

Phil  Ryan:  Often  when  a  person  loses  a  job,  he  goes  into  an 
incubator,  so  to  speak,  and  just  withdraws  from  the  world.  He 
goes  out  of  his  way  to  avoid  chatting  with  his  neighbors  when 
they're  mowing  their  lawns  on  a  Sunday  afternoon.  It  is  as  if  he 
has  an  incurable  disease,  and  he  avoids  personal  contacts. 

Yet  in  order  to  be  successful  in  getting  a  new  job,  you  really 
need  just  the  opposite  attitude.  You  can't  walk  around  feeling 
sorry  for  yourself.  Phil  Puddington  brought  our  committee  a 
very  interesting  article  from  Business  Week  that  dealt  with 
the  stages  of  dying.  First  is  denial,  "it  can't  be  true!"  Next  is 
anger  and  frustration.  Then  comes  bargaining,  depression,  and 
finally  acceptance  and  a  turn-around  to  action:  making  the 
most  of  the  time  left,  getting  out  of  the  chair  and  doing 
something.  I  think  there  is  a  striking  parallel  between  these 
stages  of  dying  and  those  of  losing  a  job. 

Journal:  Is  there  material  in  the  package  that  will  help  alumni 
evaluate  their  own  qualifications  objectively,  so  that  they 
can  take  realistic  approaches  to  the  kinds  of  jobs  they  ought 
to  be  looking  at,  and  where  they  are  going  to  be  successful! 


WPI  Journal  /April  1977/9 


Bill  Trask 

Steve  Hebert:  There  is  material  pertaining  to  self-evaluation 
and  appraisal  of  strengths  and  weakness,  as  well  as  many 
reference  sources.  But  this  is  done  primarily  through  posing  a 
number  of  questions  which  the  individual  should  ask  himself 
and  then  draw  his  own  conclusions.  It's  not  a  testing  or 
evaluation  program  per  se. 

Journal:  But  isn't  this  an  important  element -that  the  person 
firs  t  takes  a  good  healthy  look  at  herself  or  himself,  then  says, 
What  can  I  do  best?  Where  would  I  be  happiest?  Where  can  I 
be  most  productive? 

Phil  Ryan:  A  lot  of  people  confuse  activity  with  accomplish- 
ment. And  an  awful  lot  of  activity  can  generate  very  little 
accomplishment.  So  what  we're  really  trying  to  do  is  help  the 
individual  take  a  rifle,  rather  than  a  shotgun,  approach  at 
targeting  his  skills,  interests,  objectives,  and  values  towards 
those  types  of  companies  and  those  types  of  situations  where 
he  can  best  fit.  We  feel  this  has  to  be  more  productive  than  the 
so-called  blanket  mailings,  or  listing  your  name  with  15  to  20 
placement  agencies.  Don't  forget  the  placement  agencies' 
primary  loyalty  is  to  the  employer.  They've  got  a  slot  to  fill. 
Their  commitment  is  not  to  the  individual  or  to  finding  him  a 
lob,  by  and  large. 

WPI  takes  a  little  bit  different  approach  in  its  placement 
assistance  because  it  is  focused  on  the  individual.  We're  up 
trying  to  steer  the  individual  to  activities  that  will  likely 
produce  a  high  payoff,  payoff  here  meaning  offers  of  meaning- 
ful jobs. 

Journal:  How  docs  this  career  counseling  program  fit  into  the 
total  alumni  program  <//  WPIi 

Steve  Hebert:  It's  pari  of  the  total  service  orientation  of  the 
Association.  We  exist  to  serve  the  needs  of  both  the  individual 
and  the  college.  This  career  program  is  consistent  with  many 
(it  the  changes  ot  the  last  three  or  tour  years  within  the 
Association.  We're  more  active,  and  we're  involving  more 
people  In  this  case,  we're  offering  a  particular  service  from 
which  a  person  can  gel  Kr<-'at  personal  benefit  ( )ther  programs 
have  been  geared  toward  involving  and  helping  people  m  other 


ways.  We  offer  group  insurance,  which  is  helpful  to  peop" 
who  don't  have  this  available  through  their  jobs.  We've  hs 
group  travel  programs,  which  have  been  service  in  a  differei 
direction.  And  now  we're  meeting  an  obligation  we  feel 
assist  the  individual  in  placement  and  career  counseling  over 
career  that  spans  45  years  or  so. 

Journal:  Where  did  the  impetus  for  this  program  originah 
And  how  new  a  concern  is  alumni  placement? 

Steve  Hebert:  I  think  it's  always  been  a  concern.  But  it's  or| 
that's  been  marked  for  action  in  recent  years.  A  couple  of  yea 
ago,  Bob  Higgs,  '40,  chaired  a  Master  Plan  Committee,  whic 
directed  attention  towards  this  area.  More  recently  there  wa 
the  committee  chaired  by  Bill  Densmore,  '45  (this  becam 
known  as  the  Densmore  Committee),  which  was  charged  witi 
developing  a  reorganization  plan.  An  important  point  made  b 
both  groups  was  the  need  for  an  expanded  alumni  placemer 
program. 

This  current  committee  began  work  in  February  1976,  arl 
under  Phil  Ryan's  leadership  and  guidance  has  brought  man 
loose  ends  together  so  that  we  can  implement  this  program. 

Bill  Trask:  In  1958,  when  I  came  here,  placement  was  d< 
partmentalized.  Alumni  looking  for  jobs  would  go  to  th 
Alumni  Office,  and  Warren  Zepp,  the  Association  secretar 
would  give  what  help  he  could.  The  department  then  didn 
seem  to  have  the  time  or  facilities  to  help  alumni  significant! 
at  that  time.  So  the  Alumni  Office's  concern  with  placemer 
is  hardly  a  new  thing. 

Phil  Ryan:  I'd  like  to  add  one  other  thing.  This  new  program  i 
basically  an  add-on  to  what  has  already  been  going  on.  I  kno^ 
that  Bill  Trask's  Placement  Office,  the  Alumni  Office,  d< 
partment  heads,  faculty  members,  and  even  the  administr; 
tion  have  given  very  liberally  of  their  time  and  efforts  to  assis 
individual  alumni  on  an  ad  hoc,  one-to-one  basis.  I  expect  thi 
this  will  continue. 

Journal:  /  recently  read  an  article  in  Money  about  engineering 
careers.  It  described  engineering  as  a  good  place  to  start  in  but 
very  iffy  job  proposition  after  a  few  years,  because  employers 
tend  to  want  to  hire  younger  people  who  are  more  up-to-date, 
easier  to  move  around,  and  who  work  cheaper  than  older  and 
more  experienced  people.  So  I  wonder,  does  this  kit  of  ours 
address  itself  to  the  fact  that  engineers,  by  and  large,  often  hav 
to  move  away  from  engineering  and  into  another  area,  such  as 
management? 

Phil  Ryan:  I  think  it  does.  There  is  a  career  path  in  strictly  stayinj 
in  engineering,  carving  out  a  technical  career.  But  a  recent  WPI 
survey  asked  the  question  of  engineers:  "Are  you  fairly  confident 
you'll  be  with  your  present  employer  five  years  from  now?"  Ovei 
4 1  percent  answered  No. 

Another  related  and  significant  issue  concerns  the  individual 
who  leaves  engineering  and  goes  into  anodier  functional  area  oi 
possibly  a  management  position.  The  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  it' 
almost  an  irreversible  process.  Once  someone  leaves  engmeennj 
and  goes  into  management,  the  rapidity  of  technological  chang< 
and  the  hall  lite  ot  engineering  knowledge  and  skills  are  such  tha 
he  just  can't  go  hack  again.  There  are  exceptions,  of  course,  hut 
not  many.  And  as  a  person  contemplates  making  that  change, 
we're  trying  to  make  him  fully  aware  oi  the  consequences  —  thai 
is,  allow  him  to  evaluate  the  opportunities  as  well  as  the  risks. 


10    April  1977 /WPI  Journal 


Bill  lrask:  Another  thing  to  mention  nere  is  that  this  program  is 
really  geared  toward  the  person  who  has  been  out  working  for  at 
least  a  couple  of  years.  It's  got  help  for  the  senior  who  didn't  get  a 
job  right  away,  but  it's  not  really  designed  for  him.  It's  meant  for 
someone  who's  been  out  there  in  the  job  market,  who  can  use  his 
expertise,  background,  and  accomplishments  to  further  his  goals. 

Journal:  We've  been  talking  about  this  package  of  written 
materials,  primarily,  and  the  help  it  can  offer.  But  you  men- 
tioned, Phil,  that  this  is  just  the  first  stage  of  a  three-part 
program.  What  about  those  seminars  you  mentioned! 

Phil  Ryan:  These  have  not  yet  been  developed.  We've  been  taking 
this  program  step  by  step,  because  of  the  time  commitment 
needed  to  get  this  off  the  ground,  primarily  on  the  part  of  the  WPI 
staff.  Our  committee  recommended  that  this  alumni  careers 
program  include  periodic  seminars,  2-4  hour  evening  sessions 
where  there  could  be  discussion  related  to  some  of  the  areas 
covered  in  the  written  materials  package.  Videotapes  of  mock 
employment  interviews  followed  by  critiques  might  be  included. 
Alumni  members  with  expertise  or  recent  experiences  in  career 
management  or  job  changes  could  present  some  of  their  personal 
observations  and  experiences. 

We've  also  talked  about  ways  of  formalizing  what  has  been 
done — and  done  well — here  at  WPI :  the  individual  attention  of 
staff  and  volunteer  alumni  available  to  meet  with  individuals, 
answer  questions,  maybe  provide  assistance  or  referrals  as  well  as 
peer  counseling  on  a  one-to-one  basis.  This  has  yet  to  be 
developed,  but  we  feel  confident  that' these  things  can  be 
meaningful  additions  to  our  written  material.  But  certainly  this 
written  material  is  an  excellent  beginning  and  will  provide  great 
assistance  just  as  it  stands. 

Steve  Hebert:  As  this  counseling  and  assistance  program  is 
developed  —  and  it's  probably  at  least  a  year  away  —  we'll 
probably  enter  it  on  a  regional  basis,  going  to  where  there  is  a 
concentration  of  alumni,  such  as  Worcester,  Boston,  Hartford, 
Springfield,  Providence,  Manchester,  and  so  on.  This  is  still  only 
in  the  drawing-board  stage  right  now.  It  is  very,  very  dependent 
upon  the  resources  here  at  the  college  available-to  staff  it  —  and  to 
be  able  to  do  it  in  a  first-class  way. 

Journal:  Overall,  this  sounds  like  a  good  program.  How  does  it 
stack  up  against  what  other  colleges  are  doing! 

Phil  Ryan:  We've  looked  at  several  other  programs.  We're 
familiar  with  one  other  university  that  has  a  very  comprehensive 
program,  perhaps  more  so  than  this  one.  Some  of  our  ideas  came 
from  the  career  counseling  program  of  the  Harvard  Business 
School  which  covers  a  lot  of  ground.  Compared  with  primarily 
undergraduate  schools  of  similar  size  to  WPI,  we've  got  a  broader 
and  better  program  than  any  others  we've  been  able  to  identify. 

Bill  Trask:  I  sent  our  package  to  a  recruiter  who  is  pretty  well 
known  in  the  college  placement  circuit,  a  man  who  does  alumni 
as  well  as  undergraduate  placement,  and  he  said  that  he  hasn't 
seen  anything  like  this  on  any  college  campus  he  visits. 

Journal:  Can  you  summarize  briefly  the  ways  this  program  will 
really  help  an  individual  alumnus! 


Steve  Hebert,  '66 

Phil  Ryan:  The  fundamental  conclusion  our  committee  arrived 
at  was  this:  the  person  who  gets  hired  is  not  necessarily  the  best 
person  for  the  job.  It's  the  person  who  knows  the  most  about  how 
to  get  hired.  So  our  program  is  geared  towards  helping  the 
individual  learn  as  much  as  he  can  about  how  to  get  hired. 

We  haven't  brought  this  out  before,  but  we're  really  talking 
about  three  different  segments  of  the  alumni  population:  those 
who  are  out  of  a  job  and  looking;  those  who  are  seriously 
contemplating  a  job  change,-  and  then  everybody  else.  But  the 
specific  needs  and  skills  of  every  one  of  those  three  groups  are  the 
same.  The  only  difference  is  the  issue  of  timing  and  the  intensity 
to  which  these  things  apply.  This  program  will  apply  to  all  WPI 
alumni  over  the  course  of  their  working  career. 

While  we're  trying  to  promote  this  program  for  the  benefit  of 
WPI  alumni,  we  have  to  tell  alumni  that  they  aren't  going  to  get 
all  the  answers  horn  us.  The  individual  has  to  do  some  work 
himself,  and  there  are  a  lot  of  things  that  WPI  is  not  going  to  do. 

We're  not  going  to  get  into  the  business  of  evaluating  specific 
individuals'  skills,  aptitudes,  and  objectives.  We  give  reference 
sources  where  the  individual  can  get  assistance,  but  he'll  have  to 
do  that  for  himself. 

We're  not  going  to  get  involved  in  evaluating  the  attributes  of  a 
specific  job  or  company  as  they  may  relate  to  a  specific  alumnus. 
This  may  get  done  on  an  ad  hoc  basis  as  in  the  past,  but  it's  not 
really  a  part  of  the  program. 

We're  not  going  to  compete  with  commercial  enterprises  in  the 
match-making  role,  with  its  requirements  for  screening,  arrang- 
ing interviews,  executive  search,  and  other  related  activities. 

So  we're  not  doing  the  whole  job  for  anyone.  What  we  are  doing 
is  showing  a  person  what  he  may  need  and  where  he  can  go  to  find 
out  for  sure,  what  resources  he  can  tap  into  that  are  commercially 
available.  We  feel  this  is  a  significant  part  of  the  career  manage- 
ment and  job-search  process,  but  in  the  final  analysis  it's  the 
individual  alumnus  who  puts  the  whole  act  together. 


Interested?  The  Alumni  Career  Package  will  be 
ready  May  15,  and  costs  just  $8.95.  To  get  yours, 
write:    William  F.  Trask 

Director  of  Graduate  and  Career  Plans 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
Worcester  Massachusetts  D 1 609 


WHO  is 

the  WPI  student? 


Without  students,  WPI  would  not  be  in  the  business  of  education. 
[That  can  also  be  said  for  faculty,  it's  true,  but  the  difference  is 
that  the  faculty  are  here  for  the  students  and  not  vice  versa.)  So  it 
is  reasonable  to  wonder  just  what  WPI  students  are  like  nowa- 
days. Are  they  any  different  from  WPI  students  of  previous  years? 
And  how  do  they  compare  with  students  at  other  colleges? 

For  the  past  four  years,  WPI  has  gathered  information  about  the 
background  and  attitudes  of  entering  students  by  means  of  a 
national  questionnaire  sponsored  by  the  American  Council  on 
Education,  so  we're  in  a  position  to  supply  some  of  the  answers  to 
those  questions. 


WPI  students  are  good  students  in  high  school,  and  their  record 
has  been  improving  over  the  last  four  years.  They  come  to  WPI 
feeling  well-prepared  in  math  and  science  (distinctly  more  so 
than  the  national  norms),  but  not  so  able  in  reading,  composition, 
history,  social  sciences,  music,  and  art  —  in  other  words,  about 
what  you  might  expect. 

WPI  has  traditionally  drawn  its  students  primarily  from  Mas- 
sachusetts and  New  England.  That  continues,  though  there  is  a 
slight  trend  showing  students  coming  from  farther  away. 

Our  students'  parents  are  distinctly  better  educated  than  the 
national  norm  for  parents  of  college  students,  and  better  educated 
than  the  parents  of  students  four  years  ago.  Some  20  percent  of 
our  students'  fathers  are  engineers,  two  and  a  half  times  the 
national  figure  for  all  college  students.  The  percentage  of  en- 
gineer fathers  is  higher  still  for  our  women  students.  Another 
difference  in  the  families  of  our  women  students  is  that  their 
parents  are  not  as  well  educated  as  those  of  our  men. 

In  estimating  their  parents'  incomes,  freshmen  probably  esti- 
mate on  the  low  side.  Nonetheless,  it  seems  clear  that  our 
students  are  coming  from  higher  socioeconomic  groups  than 
most  students  bound  for  private  colleges.  Almost  half  come  from 
families  with  incomes  in  the  $10,000-$20,000  range,  and  nearly 
another  half  come  from  wealthier  families.  The  national  figure 
for  both  cases  is  about  40  percent.  While  slightly  under  half  the 
men  are  receiving  financial  aid,  over  two- thirds  of  the  women  are 
getting  help.  They  also  need  more  help,  with  more  than  half 
receiving  over  $1,500  a  year  in  aid  (vs.  35  percent  for  men). 

Why'd  they  pick  WPI? 

Four  years  ago,  one-third  of  our  freshman  class  applied  only  to 
WPI.  That  is  about  equal  to  the  current  nationwide  figure,  but  in 
the  meantime  the  situation  here  has  changed  dramatically.  Only 
12  percent  of  the  current  freshman  class  didn't  apply  elsewhere, 
while  some  29  percent  applied  to  four  or  more  colleges  —  twice 
the  national  figure.  Despite  this,  WPI  remains  the  first  choice  for 
a  consistent  80  percent  of  entering  students. 

The  reasons  they  come  to  WPI  make  for  some  interesting 
comparisons  with  the  national  figures.  80  percent  cite  "good 
academic  reputation"  (50  percent  nationwide),  while  61  percent 
mention. WPI 's  "special  educational  program"  (26  percent  na- 
tionally). WPI  students  are  less  influenced  by  their  friends  and, 
surprisingly,  less  by  WPI  recruiters  than  in  the  national  sample.  It 
would  seem,  in  the  words  of  Dean  of  Student  Affairs  Donald  P. 
Reutlinger,  that  "the  college's  reality  seems  far  more  crucial  than 
its  salesmanship."  Also  in  the  category  of  reality,  25  percent  of 
students  cited  the  offer  of  financial  aid  as  an  important  reason  for 
their  coming. 

Expectations  in  college  and  in  life 

WPI's  students  seem  distinctly  different  from  the  average  regard- 
ing their  expectations  and  aspirations.  Over  half  the  entering 
class  expect  to  receive  a  master's  degree  (half  of  those  at  WPI),  and 
another  20  percent  are  aiming  for  a  Ph.D.  These  compare  with 
national  figures  of  34  percent  and  12  percent,  respectively.  There 
have  been  significant  changes  in  this  pattern  at  WPI  over  the  las' 
four  years.  Many  more  now  are  thinking  about  then  mastei  's 
than  before  —  and  many  fewer  are  considering  the  doctorate.  We 
can  surmise  that  this  reflects  both  increased  awareness  of  the 
need  for  postgraduate  education  continuing  through  life,  and  tin 
difficulties  that  new  Ph.D.  holders  have  had  on  the  job  mat  ket  in 

recent  years. 


12    April  1977    WPI  Journal 


Over  two- thirds  of  our  students  plan  to  major  in  engineering 
(the  trend  has  been  somewhat  upward  over  the  four- year  period), 
another  8  percent  in  the  physical  sciences,  and  4  percent  each  in 
mathematics  and  biology.  As  they  look  ahead  to  working  after 
college,  two- thirds  plan  to  be  engineers  and  10  percent  research 
scientists.  Only  4  percent  are  undecided,  against  a  national 
average  of  12  percent. 

8  percent  expect  to  fail  at  least  one  course  in  college.  The 
national  figure  is  less  than  2  percent,  which  seems  to  indicate 
that  our  students  are  more  realistic  about  their  programs. 

Attitudes,  values,  and  what  they  think  about  themselves 

WPI  students  seem  more  oriented  toward  goals  than  the  national 
average  of  students,  and  they  are  somewhat  more  liberal  in  their 
views.  Politically,  29  percent  consider  themselves  liberal,  50 
percent  moderate,  and  17  percent  conservative.  They  are  dis- 
tinctly more  concerned  about  freedom  than  the  national  norms: 
they  are  opposed  to  college  regulation  of  students  off  campus, 
college  regulation  of  student  publications,  the  banning  of  speak- 
ers by  colleges,  and  they  favor  the  legalization  of  marijuana. 

Their  attitudes  about  sex  are  somewhat  freer,  too.  55  percent 
feel  that  living  together  before  marriage  is  a  good  idea,  and  62 
percent  agree  that  premarital  sex  is  all  right  so  long  as  the  people 
involved  like  each  other.  For  both  questions,  the  men  are  more  in 
favor  than  the  women,  but  both  are  above  the  national  figures. 

One  part  of  the  questionnaire  asked  students  to  rate  them- 
selves in  several  different  traits.  In  areas  where  they  differed  from 
the  national  sample  WPI  students  rated  themselves  above  aver- 
age (on  the  test  scale)  in  academic,  mathematical,  and  mechan- 
ical abilities,  drive  to  achieve,  intellectual  self  confidence,  and 
stubbornness.  They  considered  themselves  below  par  in  public 
speaking  ability.  Some  differences  between  male  and  female 
students  appeared  here:  the  men  rated  themselves  higher  in 
leadership  ability,  mechanical  ability,  and  originality.  The 
women  considered  themselves  higher  in  cheerfulness,  drive  to 
achieve,  mathematical  ability,  sensitivity  to  criticism,  and  stub- 
bornness. 

On  the  whole,  the  WPI  student  seems  to  be  a  more  private 
person  than  the  national  "average"  student.  Asked  about  the 
importance  of  various  listed  objectives,  our  students  were  notice- 
ably less  concerned  with  influencing  social  values  or  helping 
others  in  difficulty.  The  women  were  more  concerned  with 
community  action  than  the  men,  and  less  interested  in  money, 
business,  or  raising  a  family. 

So  who  cares  about  statistics  anyway? 

That's  a  lot  of  facts  and  figures  about  WPI  students,  but  it  isn't  the 
whole  picture  by  any  means.  Remember  that  these  represent 
students  at  the  point  of  entering  WPI. 

To  help  round  out  this  profile  of  the  student  body,  the  Journal 
interviewed  nine  students.  We  asked  about  their  lives  out  of 
class,  and  found  an  incredible  variety  of  activity.  We  hope  you'll 
enjoy  reading  about  them. 


She's  5'2",  has  worked  as  a  bartender  and  assistant  manager  at 
WPI's  Goat's  Head  Pub,  and  in  her  spare  time  offers  her  services 
as  a  church  organist  and  pianist. 

Versatile,  diminutive  Kathy  Molony,  '77,  isn't  afraid  to  try  her 
hand  at  almost  anything.  She  thrives  on  challenges.  For  instance, 
as  assistant  manager,  it  was  her  duty  to  keep  unauthorized 
persons  from  entering  the  Pub. 

"My  size  and  sex  didn't  seem  to  enter  into  the  situation  at  all," 
she  says.  "When  I  told  people  they  had  to  leave,  they  rarely  gave 
me  a  hassle.  Everything  worked  out  fine." 

For  rive  years  she  served  as  organist  at  her  church.  She  still 
plays  the  organ  at  weddings  and  performs  occasionally  as  a 
pianist.  Her  current  part-time  job  is  helping  to  set  up  Control 
Engineering,  a  course  taught  by  Prof.  Kenneth  Scott,  '48  and 
working  in  the  campus  TV  studio.  (Prof.  Scott  is  also  director  of 
Instructional  Television  at  WPI.) 

The  daughter  of  John  Molony,  '39,  who  passed  away  last  year, 
Kathy  has  shown  considerable  responsibility  in  helping  to  earn 
her  way  through  WPI,  one  of  her  major  assets  being  that  she 
inherited  his  musical  gifts.  (He,  too,  was  an  accomplished 
pianist.)  In  spite  of  her  involvement  with  musical  activities  and 
part-time  work,  she  still  leads  an  active  campus  life.  She  has 
served  as  class  secretary  since  her  sophomore  year,  as  a  member 
of  the  commencement  speaker's  selection  committee,  as  sub- 
committee chairman  for  the  junior  prom,  and  as  a  member  of  the 
faculty  awards  committee. 

Kathy  is  an  electrical  engineering  major,  has  accepted  a  posi- 
tion with  Clairol,  and  plans  to  take  management  courses  some 
time  in  the  future.  She  enjoys  sewing,  skateboarding,  and  bicy- 
cling. She  was  on  the  women's  bowling  team  last  year. 

"I've  always  wanted  to  go  to  WPI  ever  since  seventh  grade, "  she 
reports.  "I  had  to  convince  my  parents  that  it  was  the  right  thing 
to  do,  though.  They  were  very  skeptical  at  first.  In  the  end,  WPI 
was  the  only  school  I  sent  an  application  to." 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/13 


k 


r< 


Rick  Poole,  '78,  flew  to  Milwaukee  in  January  to  bone  up  on  what 
would  be  considered  by  many  undergraduates  as  a  part-time 
dream  job. 

With  the  Miller  Brewing  Company  picking  up  the  tab,  Rick 
learned  in  Milwaukee  how  to  become  the  company's  campus 
representative  for  its  national  can  recycling  contest.  Now  or- 
ganizing the  contest  at  WPI,  he  advises  campus  groups  on  how  to 
win  cash  awards,  pool  tables,  saunas,  etc.  by  recycling  cans. 
"Naturally  those  who  recycle  the  most  Miller's  cans  win  the 
most  points  and  prizes,"  he  says  with  a  grin. 

Rick  is  a  director  of  the  Pub.  "The  board  of  directors  is  a 
policy-making  group,"  he  explains.  "We  exist  to  serve  the 
students.  If  they  make  valid  suggestions,  the  board  tries  to  see 
that  they  become  part  of  the  Pub's  official  rules  and  regulations  in 
accordance  with  the  liquor  laws." 

He  serves  as  a  member  of  the  WPI  financial  aid  committee, 
which  also  helps  set  policy  in  cooperation  with  Edgar  Heselbarth, 
director  of  financial  aid.  He  participates  in  intramural  sports, 
serves  as  class  treasurer,  and  was  recently  tapped  for  Skull. 

An  electneal  engineenng  major,  who  works  part  time  in 
University  Relations,  Rick  specializes  in  systems  and  controls. 
Like  many  of  his  classmates,  he  expects  to  work  in  engineering 
and  then  get  his  MBA. 

1  fe  lives  at  Phi  Cam  ma  I  )clta,  where  he  is  a  member  of  the 
public  relations  committee.  "Fiji"  is  strategically  located  right 
next  door  to  a  church  social  center  that  runs  weekly  bingo  games. 
Rick  has  been  known  to  leave  the  center  with  more  money  than 
he  had  when  he  went  in  — . 


When  Sophomore  Joan  Bolduc  sees  a  problem,  she  does  some- 
thing about  it.  The  problem  at  WPI,  according  to  Joan,  is  the 
absence  of  a  sorority. 

"There  are  200  women  on  campus,"  she  explains,  "and  we 
don't  have  any  special  social  clubs,  such  as  the  men  do  with  their 
fraternities.  Some  of  us  feel  that  WPI  can  support  a  sorority  now, 
so  we're  trying  to  get  one  started." 

About  25  to  30  women  have  shown  interest  in  joining  a 
sorority.  That's  more  than  enough  to  start  the  ball  rolling,  she 
believes.  "If  we  are  successful  in  forming  a  sorority,  then  we  may 
be  able  to  find  a  place  on  campus  of  our  own  where  we  can  lounge 
and  socialize,"  she  says.  The  interested  group  is  corresponding 
with  a  newly-formed  sorority  at  RPI,  getting  tips  and  pointers  on 
how  to  organize  a  sorority  horn  the  ground  up.  (Editor's  note:  As 
we  go  to  press  over  20  WPI  women  have  pledged  Phi  Sigma  Sigma 
and  will  be  initiated  in  May.) 

Joan  is  one  for  getting  things  done.  She  is  a  member  of  the 
student  alumni  relations  committee  and  recently  ran  a  seminar 
for  the  seniors  called  "Managing  Your  Salary."  She  plays  on  the 
girls'  volleyball  team.  During  her  spare  time  she  works  in  the 
placement  office  scheduling  interviews  for  company  recruiters. 

The  first  WPI  student  to  come  from  Winslow,  Me.  (there  havt 
been  several  since  her  arrival),  Joan  currently  resides  in  Sanford 
Riley.  She  recalls  that  as  a  freshman  woman,  she  found  the  going 
a  bit  tough  at  WPI. 

"It  gets  better  as  time  goes  by,  though,  "she  admits.  "You  get  tc 
make  a  lot  of  friends,  both  men  and  women,  and  that  makes  a  big 
difference." 


14    April  19//    WPI  Journal 


"I  ran  a  paper  route  for  five  years  so  I  could  go  to  WPI, "  says  Bruce 
Leslie,  a  freshman  from  West  Boylston,  Mass.  He  finally  made  it 
to  WPI,  almost  entirely  through  his  own  efforts.  He  continues  to 
live  at  home  and  drives  to  classes. 

"Commuting  means  that  I  can  still  live  a  familiar  life  style,  but 
I  have  to  go  into  Worcester  for  most  of  the  educational  facilities, " 
he  continues.  "I  do  own  a  car,  though." 

Always  busy,  the  young  commuter  needs  a  car.  He  ushers  at 
Lincoln  Plaza  Theater,  participates  in  Air  Force  ROTC  at  Holy 
Cross  twice  a  week,  and  plays  trumpet  in  a  local  jazz  band. 
Currently  he  is  rehearsing  for  his  chorus  part  in  the  Worcester 
County  Light  Opera  production  of  "Camelot,"  along  with  his 
mother,  and  his  brother,  John,  a  senior  at  Worcester  State. 
Previously  he  appeared  in  "Music  Man"  and  "Bye,  Bye,  Birdie." 

Bruce  comes  by  his  musical  and  dramatic  talents  naturally.  His 
mother,  Grace  Leslie,  has  starred  in  dozens  of  local  theatrical 
productions  and  was  featured  in  a  one-act  play  entry  in  Monaco 
several  years  ago,  which  walked  off  with  first  prize  honors.  His 
brother,  John,  a  gifted  pianist,  worked  with  Eddie  Mekka  of 
"Laveme  and  Shirley"  and  "Blansky's  Beauties"  fame  in  a  recent 
summer  actors'  workshop  held  in  Worcester. 

Presently  Bruce,  along  with  several  others,  including  a  doctor, 
is  helping  to  form  a  jazz  group,  "The  Tuxedo  Classic  Jazz  Band." 
"We  play  nightclub  music  at  parties,  mostly,"  he  says.  "We're 
just  getting  started  and  we've  already  had  one  club  date."  Jazz  is 
becoming  popular  once  again,  Bruce  thinks.  "It's  more  sophisti- 
cated than  rock,"  he  comments.  "And  it  appeals  to  a  lot  of 
people." 

A  conscientious  computer  science  major,  who  earns  top 
grades,  and  who  recently  was  awarded  a  3V2  -year  Air  Force  ROTC 
scholarship,  Bruce  hopes  to  graduate  in  three  years  and  then 
study  for  his  MBA.  He  belongs  to  the  Data  Processing  Manage- 
ment Association. 


Mark  Cioffi,  '78,  a  management  engineering  major  from  North 
Springfield,  Vermont,  will  be  a  head  resident  advisor  at  WPI  next 
year.  As  chief  advisor,  he  will  have  charge  of  the  Stoddard 
complex  and  be  responsible  for  three  or  four  assistant  RA's. 

Although  busy  as  a  current  RA,  he  still  participates  in  in- 
tramural sports,  including  volleyball,  basketball,  and  softball, 
and  serves  as  president  of  the  Society  for  the  Advancement  of 
Management.  He  doesn't  belong  to  a  fraternity,  but  contends  that 
an  independent  can  get  as  much  out  of  WPI  as  a  fraternity  man. 
"It  depends  on  the  person,"  he  explains.  "Opportunities  are  here 
for  the  asking." 

"For  my  IQP I  taught  emotionally  disturbed  children  from 
kindergarten  through  the  fourth  grade  in  Worcester,"  he  says.  "I 
taught  eight  six-through- ten-year-olds  ten  hours  a  week  the  first 
term  and  twenty  hours  a  week  the  second  term.  It  was  very 
challenging." 

Mark  was  the  first  student  to  work  in  any  one  classroom  with 
eight  children  for  a  whole  term.  Since  then,  others  at  WPI  have 
followed  in  his  footsteps. 

He  has  worked  at  Springfield  (Vt.)  Hospital  during  the  sum- 
mers and  is  doing  his  MQP  there  in  Hospital  Management.  He 
hopes  to  get  a  graduate  degree  in  the  future,  perhaps  finishing  off 
at  Vermont  Law  School.  "Vermont  Law  opened  just  a  few  years 
ago  in  South  Royalton,"  Mark  reports.  "It  is  accredited  and  ready 
to  grow.  Some  of  my  friends  go  there  and  they  like  it." 

Mark  is  considering  a  people-oriented  career,  not  one  that  is 
strictly  engineering.  Something  in  the  field  of  organizational 
behavior  appeals  to  him.  His  cousin,  Mike  Graham,  74  (also  a 
management  engineer),  is  in  industrial  relations  at  Albany  Inter- 
national in  Albany,  New  York.  He  works  with  people  and  does  a 
considerable  amount  of  traveling  both  in  and  out  of  the  country. 

Thinking  of  Mike  and  his  job,  Mark  smiles.  "Now  that's  the 
kind  of  job  that  I'd  like,"  he  confesses. 


WPI  Journal  /April  1977/ 15 


-» 


n- 


Two  years  ago  when  Raul  Matamoros  first  entered  WPI,  he  spoke 
very  httle  English.  This  winter  he  passed  his  competency  exam 
and  expects  to  graduate  in  the  spring. 

In  1975,  Raul,  his  sister,  Silvia,  78  and  brother  Gustavo  (who 
has  also  passed  his  competency),  came  to  WPI  along  with  22  other 
students  from  Venezuela.  "We  came  on  a  special  scholarship 
program  sponsored  by  the  Venezuelan  government,"  he  explains. 
"Our  government  pays  all  educational  expenses  for  promising 
engineering  students  who  will  enroll  at  U.S.  colleges,  graduate, 
and  then  return  home  to  work." 

Before  coming  to  WPI,  Raul  studied  one  year  at  Simon  Bolivar 
Uruversity.  "I  had  had  five  years  of  English,"  he  says,  "but  did  not 
have  much  of  a  chance  to  speak  it  often.  My  first  months  at  WPI 
I  learned  more  English  than  I'd  learned  in  the  previous  five  years 
at  home.  I  had  to  learn  English  in  order  to  keep  up  with  my 
studies." 

Because  his  expenses  are  paid,  Raul  does  not  need  to  have  a 
part-time  |ob.  "I  am  not  allowed  to  work  in  this  country,  anyway, 
because  I'm  a  foreign  student,"  he  says.  He  does  a  good  deal  of 
studying,  however,  as  evidenced  by  the  fact  that  he  has  been 
elected  as  a  member  of  IEEE  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu.  He  also  likes  a 
good  time  I  le  is  on  the  Venezuelan  bowling  team  and  enjoys 
what  to  him  is  a  "new"  sport  —  skiing. 

Raul,  his  brother,  and  a  friend  share  an  apartment  near  campus. 
I  hey  take  turns  cooking,  but  usually  eat  lunch  at  the  school 
Cafeteria  With  other  students 

lor  his  immediate  future,  Raul  wants  toearn  his  MSEE,  and, 
perhaps,  travel  America  from  coast  to  coast.  He  and  his  brother 
and  sister  are  eaga  to  return  to  Venezuela,  too.  They  manage  to 
Kct  home  only  a  couple  times  a  year,  most  often  during  summer 
vacation  and  ova  the  (  hristmas  holidays. 


"Active"  is  the  adjective  for  Cyndy  Gryniuk,  '78,  of  Waterbury, 
Connecticut,  resident  advisor  for  the  third  floor  of  Sanford  Riley. 
Socially  or  athletically,  Cyndy  is  always  on  the  scene. 

She  is  chairperson  of  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  entertainment 
committee;  has  managed  men's  outdoor  track;  served  three  years 
as  a  football  and  basketball  cheerleader;  worked  on  the  freshman 
orientation  committee;  and  been  elected  class  secretary  twice. 

"Being  a  resident  advisor  means  that  I'm  reponsible  for  what 
goes  on  on  the  third  floor  of  Riley,"  she  says.  "Whether  it's 
personal  or  academic  problems,  I'm  usually  the  first  person  the 
students  turn  to.  I  am  also  responsible  for  keeping  the  general 
behavior  of  the  floor  in  line.  It  can  be  an  exasperating  job,  but 
most  of  the  time  it's  a  good  one." 

As  chairperson  of  the  Pub  entertainment  committee,  Cyndy 
helps  select  the  various  groups  or  solo  entertainers  who  perform 
there  throughout  the  year.  "You  can  meet  a  lot  of  interesting 
people  this  way,"  she  jokes. 

Cyndy  is  a  mechanical  engineering  major  specializing  in 
thermal-fluid  engineering.  She  is  a  student  member  of  the  Society 
of  Women  Engineers. 

For  her  interactive  qualifying  project  (IQP)  she  taught  reading 
and  math  and  served  as  a  special  tutor  to  slow  learners  at  Freeland 
Street  School  in  Worcester. 

"I  came  to  WPI,"  she  says,  "because  I  compared  it  to  other 
colleges  and  liked  the  atmosphere  here  the  best." 


16    April  ]')//    WPI  Journal 


Whenever  Bill  Cunningham,  '11 ,  does  something,  he  does  it 
'big,"  like  last  summer  when  the  Tall  Ships  sailed  into  Boston. 
Tlie  proprietor  of  a  prosperous  silk  screening  business,  Bill  sold 
120  "Tall  Ships"  shuts  down  by  the  docks  inside  of  two  hours. 

"Then  my  partner  and  I  bought  250  blank  tee  shirts  (an  entire 
rack!)  in  Jordan's  basement,  printed  them,  and  sold  out  in  four 
lours  the  next  day,"  he  says.  On  the  Fourth  of  July  they  sold  60 
'Boston  76"  shirts  at  the  Esplanade  concert,  just  to  keep  their 
lands  in.  Bill  managed  all  this  super  salesmanship  while  holding 
lown  a  full-time  summer  job  as  a  specialist  for  Medical  Inf orma- 
:ion  Technology  in  Cambridge. 

Still  thinking  big,  Bill  returned  to  WPI  as  chairman  of  the  social 
:ommittee,  which  administers  $65,000  in  student  social  fees, 
through  his  efforts  such  name  entertainers  as  Judy  Collins  and 
Dave  Mason  were  booked  on  campus.  This  year  the  lion's  share 
}f  the  college's  entertainment  came  under  his  jurisdiction, 
including  Homecoming  festivities  and  Spectrum. 

The  current  president  of  Skull,  Bill  also  has  been  a  representa- 
tive to  the  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  national  convention,  an  American 
Heart  Association  certified  instructor  of  cardiopulmonary  resus- 
citation (CPR)  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
School,  a  resident  advisor,  an  Intersession  course  ski  instructor, 
an  Explorer  troop  advisor,  and  a  teacher  for  the  Pennsylvania 
Association  of  Student  Councils.  He  has  accepted  a  job  with  A.  T. 
&  T.  and  will  be  in  the  Management  Development  Program  in 
the  Northeast  region. 

A  couple  of  years  ago  he  developed  a  vascular  research  data  base 
because  there  was  a  need  to  analyze  statistically  the  patient  data 
record  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital's  vascular  research  laboratories. 
The  object  of  the  project  was  to  develop  a  data  base  and  computer 
programs  so  that  the  information  processing  and  handling  would 
be  more  efficient. 

Drawn  to  WPI  by  the  flexibility  of  The  Plan  and  his  interest  in 
biomedical  engineering,  Bill  declares,  "WPI  gave  me  a  lot  more 
than  I  bargained  for." 


Jack  Craffey,  79,  isn't  able  to  compete  on  the  college  swimming 
team  this  year,  which  is  a  great  disappointment  not  only  to  him, 
but  to  the  WPI  sports  community  as  well.  "A  torn  shoulder 
tendon  kept  me  off  the  present  team.  The  doctor  gave  strict  orders 
for  me  not  to  swim  this  season,"  Jack  says.  "The  tendon  is  taking 
a  long  time  to  heal,  but  I  hope  to  be  back  in  action  again  before 
long." 

Next  year  can  hardly  come  soon  enough  for  WPI  swim  team 
boosters  who  like  nothing  better  than  to  cheer  on  a  winner.  As  a 
freshman,  Jack  broke  five  school  records:  the  200,  500,  1000,  and 
1650-yard  freestyles  and,  also,  the  200  individual  medley.  In  the 
New  Englands  Jack  placed  seventh  in  the  500-yard  freestyle  and 
eighth  in  the  1650  freestyle.  At  the  annual  sports  banquet,  not 
surprisingly,  he  was  named  "Freshman  Athlete  of  the  Year." 

When  not  breaking  school  records,  Jack  studies  chemical 
engineering,  participates  in  a  wide  variety  of  intramural  sports, 
and  holds  the  post  of  secretary  at  his  fraternity.  He  is  a  student 
member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers. 

It  wasn't  too  hard  for  Jack  to  decide  where  he  wanted  to  go  to 
college.  His  brother,  Paul,  was  already  at  WPI.  "Paul  is  a  senior 
and  we  both  have  the  same  major,"  Jack  says.  "But  we're  not  in 
the  same  fraternity.  Paul  belongs  to  Delta  Sigma  Tau.  I  joined 
Sigma  Pi."  Both  students  live  at  their  respective  fraternities. 
Vacation  time  finds  the  brothers  at  home  in  Bridgewater,  Mass. 


WPI  Journal/April  1977/17 


Mike  Murphy  —  Marathon  Man 


by  Christopher  D.  Baker,  77 


Reprinted  from  WPI  Newspeak 


WPI  has  an  outstanding  athlete.  To  look 
at  him  you  wouldn't  know  it,  however. 
He  stands  about  5 '8  "  and  weighs  only  1 22 
lbs.  A  few  have  probably  seen  him  and 
scratched  their  heads  as  a  lone  figure 
strode  silently  through  new  fallen  snow. 
Still  others  may  feel  perplexed  to  see  the 
same  man  rurining  when  they  return 
from  work  as  they  did  when  they  left  in 
the  morning.  The  man  is  Mike  Murphy. 
And  running  is  a  major  part  of  his  life.  The 
soft-spoken  WPI  sophomore  says,  "I  guess 
I  enjoy  it,  but  it's  something  I  just  do  . . . 
like  a  job. "  Run  he  does  and  will  continue 
to  do.  Mike  runs  every  day  of  the  year  and 
will  do  so  for  a  number  of  years  to  come. 
The  Marathon  is  now  his  penchant  which 
one  can  easily  see.  Murphy  did  extremely 
well  in  Marathons  this  year  ...  all  two  of 
them  in  which  he  was  entered.  There  was 
this  event  on  Patriots'  Day,  uhh,  the 
Boston  Marathon  I  think  it's  called. 
Something  like  3,000  official  entries, 
5,000  or  so  runners,  heartbreak  hill!  Heard 
of  it?  Mike  finished  36th  this  year.  His 
time  of  2:26:22  was  only  12  minutes 
behind  the  winner,  Jerome  Drayton,  and  a 
few  minutes  ahead  of  many  top  class 
marathon  runners,  including  Bill  Rodgers 
who  dropped  out.  Mike  also  finished 
ahead  of  two  other  WPI  runners,  who  did 
creditable  jobs.  John  Osowski  and  Peter 
Kane,  both  seniors,  finished  244th  and 
247th,  respectively.  They  finished,  which 
is  no  mean  feat  at  all.  But  36th  on  his 
second  marathon  ever.  Whew!  The  first 
marathon  Mike  completed  was  another 
26-mile  trek  through  the  Connecticut 
area.  Murphy,  a  Cromwell,  Connecticut 
native,  competed  in  the  Connecticut 
Marathon  in  order  to  qualify  for  the  Bos- 
ton Marathon.  Qualify  lie  did  by  placing 
3rd  in  the  race.  "I  really  didn't  push 
myself  that  haul  m  Connecticut;  it  was  a 
nice  pace/'  Mike  reflected  as  he  examined 
the  blisters  on  his  feet  which  would  force 
the  Sunday  logger  to  take  a  week  off.  The 

Boston  Marathon  was  a  bit  different. 
Mike  more  than  pushed  bimseli 


Perhaps  a  few  words  of  what  the 
marathon  is  like  to  a  19-year-old  would  be 
in  order.  The  day  before  the  race  you 
would  think  a  runner  would  get  a  break. 
No  way.  "I  had  to  keep  limbered  up  so  I 
ran  the  day  before  the  race,"  Mike  said, 
flashing  his  most  pleasant  smile,  "and 
then  it  was  spaghetti  for  supper  the  night 
before. "  The  morning  meal  was  pancakes 
bland  with  carbohydrates  for  reserves  of 
energy.  A  friend  drove  Murphy  to  the 
starting  point  in  Hopkinton.  His  family 
was  present.  He  picked  up  his  number 
2966.  Unseeded  and  unnoticed,  he  wouk 
start  in  the  back  of  the  pack.  Then  his 
mind  went  through  what  would  happen 
to  him  for  the  next  few  hours.  The  mental 
strain  had  begun.  The  race  was  to  start    j 
and  the  runners  lined  up.  "The  top  50  or 
so  from  last  year's  race  line  up  in  front," 
recalled  Mike,  "then  it's  kind  of  a  battle  ir 
back.  Everyone  is  pushing  and  elbowing, 
trying  not  to  have  their  shoes  stepped  on.' 
After  the  starting  gun  sounded  it  was  a    j 
full  minute  before  the  WPI  math  major 
reached  the  starting  line.  "A  number  of 
runners  try  to  start  fast  and  set  a  quick 
pace,  but  I  just  wanted  to  stay  smooth." 
This  evidently  worked  well  for  Murphy. 
"It  does  a  lot  for  your  spirits  if  you  can 
continuously  be  passing  people  rather 
than  slowing  down  at  the  end  as  everyone 
passes  you."  Clearly  the  spectator  suppor 
in  the  Boston  Marathon  aided  Murphy's 
mental  stamina.  "The  people  were  great 
all  the  way."  For  the  whole  race  there  wa: 
a  continuous  line  of  spectators,  many  of 
whom  offered  oranges,  water,  or  Mike's 
favorite,  icecubes.  "I'd  take  them  and  pul 
them  on  my  body,  head  and  face"  —  a 
tactic  which  might  have  caused  him  prol 
kins  later.  The  last  time  Mike  saw  his 
family  and  friends  was  while  passipg 
through  Wellesley,  1 5  miles  into  the  race 


18    April  1977 /WPI  Journal 


-rom  there  spectators  must  go  to  the 
inish  line  if  they  want  to  see  the  end  of 
he  race.  Thus,  for  the  last  stretch  of  the 
ace  he  would  be  more  on  his  own  than 
rver.  While  running  Murphy  witnessed 
jther  runners  getting  cramps,  succumbi- 
ng to  the  heat,  and  quitting.  But  Mike 
jore  on.  After  a  while  one's  feet  just  keep 
;oing,  and  the  head  is  what  one  must 
>attle  with.  Quitting  never  was  one  of  the 
hings  that  came  into  Mike's  head.  "I 
lever  felt  like  I  wanted  to  give  up.  My  legs 
elt  good;  I  never  even  thought  of  it."  But 
is  the  last  3  miles  of  the  race  approached 
t  seemed  that  "Murph's"  body  might 
>etray  him.  Perhaps  it  was  the  ice  cubes, 
>r  the  heat  itself,  but  soon  this,  your 
narathon  man,  looked  possessed,  spaced 
mt  —  or  both.  His  head  began  to  bob 
iround,  just  looking  up  at  the  sky  most  of 
he  time  as  he  swerved  from  one  side  of 
he  crowd  to  the  other.  "It  was  frighten- 
ng,  like  running  in  a  tunnel.  I  just  tried  to 
tay  on  the  crowd  line  for  direction,  but  I 
nded  up  zig-zagging  back  and  forth." 
itill,  Mike's  legs  kept  moving  to  the 
inish  line. .  .just  barely.  After  Mike  took 
:xactly  one  step  over  the  line  he  collapsed 
nto  the  arms  of  two  officials  who  laid 
lim  on  a  stretcher.  They  gave  him  oxygen 
or  10  minutes  ("I  kept  trying  to  knock  the 
'  nask  off  because  it  was  making  me  sick") 
nd  then  wheeled  him  into  the  basement 
if  the  Prudential  building  to  recover, 
'eople  lined  the  path  in  and  around  the 
'rudential,  congratulating  all  the  run- 
ters,  whether  they  were  still  running 
imazing)  or  were  in  Mike's  condition.  "I 
hink  I  was  worse  off  than  others  I  saw," 
eflected  Mike.  Still  the  body  fought  him. 
Zhiils,  cold  sweat,  and  cramps  stayed 
vith  him  for  quite  a  while,  though  now  he 
:ould  think  about  his  superlative  effort. 
'I'd  have  to  say  I'm  pleased."  But  despite 
>eing  pleased  there  are  still  some  modest 
;oals  to  be  met.  Perhaps  by  the  nature  of 
lis  sport  Mike  is  a  patient  man.  He  has 
he  attitude  that  he  should  take  every- 
hing  as  it  comes.  Running  for  a  half  hour 
ind  knowing  two  or  more  hours  remain 
levelops  patience.  He  would  like  to  run  a 
>ub-2:20  marathon;  he'd  like  to  go  to  the 
VCAA  nationals  this  year  in  the  10,000 
neter  run — about  6  miles.  But  right  now 
le  isn't  doing  any  "quality  work"  —  speed 
work  in  track  vernacular.  He  must  qualify 
for  the  nationals,  however,  and  since  the 
WPI  track  team,  of  which  he  is  a  member, 
doesn't  run  the  event,  he  must  do  it 
elsewhere.  Mike  has  set  his  sights  on 
other  things,  like  the  Boston  Marathon,  so 
this  goal  should  be  accomplished.  Train- 
ing for  the  marathon  has  been  a  3  year 


• 


ordeal  for  the  WPI  runner.  His  running 
(since  being  a  freshman  at  Cromwell  High 
School)  introduced  him  to  a  vintage 
marathoner  from  the  same  neck  of  the 
woods  —  John  Vitale.  John  went  to  the 
Olympic  trials  in  1976,  but  just  missed 
oul:  on  making  the  Olympics.  His  coach- 
ing proved  to  be  more  than  adequate  as 
the  student  (Murphy)  finished  well  before 
the  teacher.  Vitale  came  in  45th  in  the 
Boston  Marathon,  quite  respectable  to  be 
sure. 

The  workout  for  the  past  three  years 
has  been  vigorous.  Mike  runs  from  160- 
1 90  miles  per  week  when  a  race  is  not 
pending.  A  month  or  so  before  a  big  race 
he  steps  his  workout  down  to  120  miles 
per  week.  Still  it  is  an  everyday  affair, 
usually  twice  a  day.  One  workout  will  be 
short,  another  long.  Workouts  must  be 
sandwiched  between  classes  and 
homework  which  bury  all  math  majors. 
Rain,  sleet,  or  snow,  winds,  dogs,  and 
Worcester  drivers  must  all  be  put  up  with 
to  get  in  the  workout . . .  every  day.  Mike 
seems  to  take  it  all  for  granted  and  will  be 
dedicated  to  this  type  of  schedule  for  years 
to  come. 

Aside  from  the  running,  the  food  he 
consumes  would  turn  many  off  in  this 
plastic  age.  "I  try  to  stay  away  from  the 


junk  foods"  says  Mike,  which  is  evi- 
denced by  his  trim  frame,  bright  smile, 
and  glowing  face.  He  eats  a  lot  of  fruit  and 
vegetables  and  other  things  that  most  of 
us  know  are  good  for  our  systems.  But  he 
doesn't  miss  the  other  junk.  "Eating  these 
things  makes  your  body  feel  cleaner,  run- 
ning and  otherwise." 

If  you  push  him,  Mike  will  go  so  far  as 
to  tell  you  his  goals  for  the  next  few  years. 
He  would  like  to  graduate,  naturally 
enough,  then  get  a  job  in  a  business  re- 
lated field.  But  running  and  working  are 
not  always  compatible.  Marathon  run- 
ners now  must  scrape  for  everything  they 
get.  Even  guys  of  Frank  Shorter's  caliber 
must  try  to  get  by  without  any  funds 
coming  in  other  than  some  expenses  cov- 
ered by  a  sponsor. 

All  this  though  is  in  the  future  for  Mike 
Murphy.  The  day  after  the  marathon  he 
ran  6  miles.  Today  will  be  more  running, 
and  tomorrow  also.  It  won't  stop  for  a 
while.  Next  year  in  the  Boston  Marathon 
Mike  will  wear  the  number  36,  and  will 
be  with  the  top  runners.  But  before  that 
there  will  be  the  daily  jaunts,  competition 
with  the  WPI  track  team,  and  races  this 
summer  in  Connecticut.  And  each  time 
he  starts  his  run  he'll  take  each  step  as 
he's  always  done  . . .  one  at  a  time. 


WPI  Journal/April  1977/19 


Nils 


Nils  Hagberg  and  WPI  —  they've  been 
together  for  42  years.  Since  1935  there 
have  been  thousands  of  students  who 
have  graduated  from  WPI,  and  those  who 
don't  know  Nils  Hagberg  could  probably 
be  numbered  on  one  hand.  Serving  at 
various  times  as  a  machinist,  mainte- 
nance man,  campus  cop,  and  night  super- 
visor, Nils  has  also  served  unofficially  as  a 
genial  adviser  and  all-around  entertainer. 

If  justice  has  to  be  doled  out,  Nils 
generally  manages  to  do  it  with  a  smile.  "I 
love  kids,"  he  says.  "They  don't  usually 
do  anything  too  bad."  He  chuckles,  re- 
membering. 

"Of  course,"  he  recalls,  "there  was  the 
morning  after  a  rope-pulling  contest 
when  we  found  hundreds  of  feet  of  rope 
tied  around  the  flagpole  on  the  Boynton 
bell  tower  and  looped  across  the  roofs  of 
Washburn,  Salisbury,  and  Atwater  Kent. 
We  never  did  figure  out  how  they  man- 
aged that  one." 

Nils  has  other  memories:  of  the  athletic 
feats  of  Ray  Forkey,  '40,  Harry  Brown,  '53, 
Fred  DiPippo,  '60,  and  Hank  Nowick,  '56; 
of  big  Bob  Pritchard  being  carried  across 
the  field  after  the  undefeated  season  of 
1954.  (It  took  the  whole  squad  to  pick  him 
up.) 

"I  try  to  get  to  most  of  the  sports 
events,"  Nils  reports.  "Like  to  see  my 
boys  in  action." 

And  the  boys  (now,  also,  the  girls) 
turned  graduates  remember  Nils  as  then 
faithful  booster  and  confidant.  Not  only 
has  he  been  initiated  into  Skull,  he  is  on 
the  alumni's  most-wanted  list  of  after- 
dinner  speakers  for  class  reunions.  With 
his  ready  wit  and  bag  full  of  memories,  he 
is  often  the  highlight  of  the  evening. 

"Oh,  there's  plenty  to  talk  about,"  Nili 
allows.  "I  can  remind  them  of  the  time 
that  Prof.  Granath  was  cranking  up  his 
1923  Buick,  when  it  suddenly  started 
moving  and  nearly  ran  him  down.  Then, 
hack  m  '55  at  the  Norwich  game  in  Vcr- 


20   April  1977 /WPI  Journal 


nont,  it  snowed  so  hard  that  the  held  had 
o  be  plowed  during  the  half.  I  can  also 

!  ay,  'Hey,  what's  your  name.  You  know 

'  vho  you  are.  Remember  the  time  I  caught 
'ou  parking  behind  Boynton  with  some- 

;  >ody  else's  girl —  ?'  " 

!    He  can  kindle  alumni  memories  of 
teople  like  Ad  Holbrook,  '38,  and  Ken 

'  -owler,  '40,  both  deceased,  who  graduated 

;  md  stayed  on  as  superintendents  of  the 
>ld  Washburn  Shops;  of  Prof.  Wilson, 
lead  of  chemistry,  who  stood  about  6'4" 
ind  who  had  one  of  the  first  compact  cars 
>n  campus,  an  Austin.  When  he  got  into 
t,  he  really  filled  it. 

Others,  like  Dean  Price, '30,  Prof.  Holt 
)f  civil  engineering,  Percy  Carpenter  of 
he  athletic  department,  and  A.  J.  Knight, 
07  (deceased),  of  the  civil  department  and 
mildings  and  grounds  helped  make  WPI 
vhat  it  is  today,  Nils  recalls.  "I  could  go 
)n  and  on  about  all  the  people  of  the  WPI 
amily,"  he  continues.  "For  example 
Tony  Ruksnaitis,  '53,  Joe  Gale,  little 
immy  Kelley,  and  Leo  fansson,  the  first 
ithletic  trainer  at  WPI." 

Nils  can  tell  stories  about  seven  WPI 
^residents:  Admiral  Earle,  who  picked  up 
;igarette  butts  and  scraps  of  paper  as  he 
talked  along;  Admiral  Cluverius,  who 
lated  oil  drippings  from  cars  and  had  Nils 

:  ;lean  them  up;  Dean  Roys,  who  was 
nterim  president  several  times;  President 
wOrmeny  and  his  argyle  socks;  President 
3ronwell,  who  was  always  forgetting 
iomething,  i.e.,  coat  or  briefcase,  and  had 
Slils  go  pick  them  up;  and  General  Storke, 
.vho  would  meet  Nils  nearly  every  af ter- 
loon  at  3: 15  by  the  bubbler  on  the  first 
loor  in  Boynton.  "We'd  tell  the  latest 
okes,  which  were  usually  the  oldest  jokes 
ever  told,"  Nils  chuckles.  As  for  President 
Hazzard,  Nils  often  sees  him  across  the 
baseball  held,  while  he  is  walking  to 
work,  and  the  president  is  walking  home. 
"He  always  has  a  big  smile  and  a  wave." 
Nils  hke  to  keep  his  public  speaking, 
whatever  the  topic,  informal  and  conver- 
sational. A  master  of  off-the-cuff  speak- 
ing, he  declares  he's  never  taken  a  course 
in  the  subject.  He's  had  no  acting  lessons, 
either. 


"As  a  matter  of  fact,"  he  reveals,  "I  was 
the  shyest  kid  in  high  school  and  was 
really  shaking  when  I  had  to  play  the  part 
of  Julius  Caesar.  Something  came  over  me 
when  I  came  to  the  words,  "Et  tu,  Brute?" 
I  fell  to  the  floor.  This  got  a  great  reaction 
from  the  audience.  From  then  on  I  could 
always  perform  anywhere  without  stage 
fright. 

And  perform  he  did!  Coming  from  a 
long  line  of  musicians  (his  uncle  was  the 
headmaster  of  the  Royal  Academy  of 
Music  in  Stockholm,  Sweden),  Nils  sang, 
danced,  acted,  and  "hammed"  his  way 
through  35  Worcester  County  Light 
Opera  Club  presentations,  a  feat  which 
netted  him  an  acting  award  and  a  merit 
award  from  the  group.  He  received  a  tes- 
timonial from  the  Jewish  War  Veterans 
for  his  outstanding  efforts  in  entertaining 
servicemen.  As  a  Swedish  clown,  he  per- 
formed at  countless  benefits,  and  had  a 
chance  to  join  the  vaudeville  circuit.  (He 
declined,  saying  that  he  preferred  to  stay 
with  his  family.)  In  the  mid-fifties  he  was 
a  Swedish  disc  jockey  for  station  WNEB. 
He,  and  his  wife,  Audrey,  an  accom- 
plished organist,  received  a  key  to  the 
City  of  Worcester  on  their  25th  wedding 
anniversary  in  recognition  of  their  charit- 
able musical  contributions  to  the  com- 
munity. 

Nils'  and  Audrey's  talents  have  come 
full  circle  in  their  son,  Skippy,  who  plays 
the  trombone  locally,  and  in  their  three 
lovely  daughters,  professionally  known  as 
the  Hale  Sisters  and  a  part  of  the  singing 
group,  Solid  State. 

With  fatherly  pride  Nils  reports,  "We 
just  learned  yesterday  that  Dick  Clark  is 
going  to  produce  a  show  featuring  Solid 
State  for  NBC- TV  this  summer.  We  don't 
know  the  exact  format  yet,  but  we  do 
know  the  group  is  definitely  signed  up." 

He  pulls  out  two  mammoth  photo  al- 
bums crammed  with  photos  of  Susie, 
Christine,  and  Robin  on  their  way  to  the 
top  —  pictures  with  Clark,  Debbie 
Reynolds,  Eileen  Fulton,  Tony  Bennett, 
and  Englebert  Humperdink.  "We  feel 
pretty  good  about  the  girls'  success,"  Nils 
says.  "Solid  State  is  a  clean  group.  No  hard 
rock.  And,"  he  adds,  "I  think  it's  one  of 
the  only  groups  around  to  star  three  sis- 
ters and  three  brothers." 

A  bouncy  two-year-old  trots  over  to  the 
table  and  points  to  a  photo.  "There's 
Mommy  and  Daddy,"  he  announces. 

"This  is  Daniel,"  says  Nils.  "He's 
Susie's  little  boy.  Audrey  and  I  look  after 
him  and  his  sister  while  Susie  and  her 
husband,  John,  are  on  the  road.  Did  I  tell 
you  that  John  directs  Solid  State  and  plays 
the  drums?" 


"Grandpa,  I  want  to  see  the  trains," 
interrupts  Daniel. 

The  electric  train  layout  which  Nils  has 
rigged  up  in  a  6'  x  14'  area  of  his  basement 
is  a  marvel  of  ingenuity.  From  a  central 
panel  he  can  control  up  to  80  cars  and  13 
engines.  There  are  over  96  buildings  of  all 
descriptions  which  he  has  acquired  or 
made  from  kits.  Everything  fits  the  HO 
scale:  the  autos;  the  Vi  inch  "people" 
which  he  paints  realistic  colors  with  a 
minute  brush  using  magnifying  glasses; 
the  Swedish  moss  trees;  and  the  specially 
clipped  fabric  hedges.  The  trains  light  up, 
as  do  the  street  lights  and  the  buildings. 
Whistles  blare. 

The  layout  is  especially  unique  in  that 
it  is  divided  into  "theaters"  of  interest. 
There  is  a  camping  area,  a  downtown 
section,  an  industrial  park,  and  a  residen- 
tial area,  each  "peopled"  with  characters 
doing  appropriate  things. 

"The  best  thing  about  this  hobby  is  that 
I  am  always  adding  something  or  chang- 
ing something,"  Nils  says. 

If  he  should  get  bored,  however,  he 
could  turn  to  his  1,200  lp's  (no  rock),  or  to 
his  1,000-plus  78's  (some  original 
Carusos).  He  could  also  make  a  second 
grandfather  clock  to  match  his  first  one. 
But  Nils,  with  his  lively  interest  in  his 
"kids"  at  WPI,  his  own  children's  careers, 
his  music,  and  his  hobbies,  will  undoubt- 
edly never  find  a  single  minute  to  be 
bored. 

Ruth  Trask 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/21 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are  based 
had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni  Association 
before  March  75,  when  it  was  compiled  for 
publication.  Information  received  after  that 
date  will  be  used  in  future  issues  of 
the  WPI  Journal. 


1922 

Fred  Millard,  who  officially  retired  1 5  years  ago, 
was  still  consulting  as  recently  as  last  year.  In 
May  and  June  he  was  on  assignment  for  ITT  in 
Stamford,  Conn.        George  Parsons  and  his 
wife  are  currently  located  at  Havenwood  Re- 
tirement Community  in  Concord,  N.H. 

1927 

Charles  Parker  is  a  patent  attorney  in  Ken- 
sington, Maryland. 


1928 


Frank  Taylor  retired  recently.  He  was  a  consul- 
tant and  assistant  vice  president  at  Hamilton 
Investment  Trust  in  Elizabeth,  N.J. 


1929 

Gale  Flint  writes  that  he  presently  spends  about 
eight  months  of  the  year  in  Florida.  When  he  is 
home  in  Derby,  Conn.,  he  usually  visits  with 
friends  and  relatives. 


1930 

Frank  Norton,  Jr.,  former  director  of  Civil  De- 
fense for  the  city  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  has  re- 
tired       Alfred  Vibber  is  currently  an  attorney  at 
law  in  Waretown,  N  J  ,  having  recently  passed 
the  New  Jersey  bar  exam  He  continues  with  his 
practice  on  Madison  Avenue  in  New  York  City. 
Dr  Ellis  Whitaker  has  retired  as  a  professor  of 
biology  at  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Univer- 
sity, North  Dartmouth,  Mass 


1931 


Victor  Colby  retired  recently  from  TS  Enter- 
>'*ster,  N  H 


1932 


1933 

Allen  Brownlee  retired  as  plant  manager  of  the 
Wico  plant,  Prestolite  Electrical  Division,  in 
January  following  34  years  of  service.  Friends 
and  associates  honored  him  at  a  testimonial 
dinner.  He  joined  the  company  in  1942  as  a 
research  engineer,  later  became  vice  president, 
and  has  served  as  Wico's  plant  manager  since 
1967,  the  year  the  business  was  acquired  by 
Prestolite.  He  is  past  president  of  Springfield 
Kiwanis,  vice  president  and  director  of  Junior 
Achievement  of  Western  Massachusetts,  and 
director  of  the  West  Springfield  Chamber  of 
Commerce  and  the  Boys  Club.  A  registered 
professional  engineer,  he  is  also  a  member  of  the 
Society  of  Automotive  Engineers  and  IEEE. 

Last  year  Kenneth  Farnsworth  retired  from 
Suburban  Trust  Co.,  where  he  was  branch  man- 
ager. He  is  located  in  Washington,  D.C. .  . .  Leo 
Lajoie  retired  as  manager  of  the  Lincoln  Plaza 
Theater  in  Worcester.  Previously  he  managed 
the  old  Capitol  Theater  for  almost  forty  years. . . . 
Carl  Silverberg  retired  recently  as  a  section  head 
at  American  Optical  Corp.  in  Southbridge, 
Mass. 


1934 


Allan  Catheron,  retired  system  research  en- 
gineer for  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Concord,  Mass.,  has 
been  elected  a  fellow  of  the  American  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers.  His  experience  has 
ranged  from  wartime  work  on  ordnance  and 
torpedo  depth  controllers  to  the  development  of 
pilot  process  equipment  and  individual  meas- 
urement and  control  devices. 

He  holds  patents  on  several  control  devices 
including  a  rate  of  climb  (change)  meter,  a  blast 
feedback  technique,  a  self-adjusting  electrical 
controller,  and  a  method  of  stabilizing  a  valve 
positioner-volume  booster  loop.  He  has  written 
a  number  of  articles  and  books  including  a 
chapter  on  pneumatic  components  in  the  Con- 
trol Engineers  Handbook.  A  professional  en- 
gineer, he  currently  is  a  member  of  the  Policy 
Board  of  ASME's  Basic  Engineering  Department. 
.  .  .  Lloyd  Jenkins  serves  as  president  and 
treasurer  of  Robert  G.  Pratt  Co.,  Inc.,  in 
Worcester. 

1935 

Phillip  Dean  is  a  retired  senior  engineer  from 
Northeast  Utilities  Service,  Hartford,  Conn.  . .  . 
A.  Hamilton  Gurnham,  business  manager  of  the 
Country  School  in  Guilford,  Conn.,  for  the  past 
fourteen  years,  retired  at  the  end  of  January.  He 
joined  the  school  when  facilities  consisted  of 
one  bu  ilding  and  he  taught  all  of  the  shop  classes 
in  his  spare  time.  Now  the  school  has  five 
buildings  and  his  post  as  business  manager 
proved  to  be  a  full-time  job.  Earlier  he  had  been 
with  Campbell  Soup  Company  and  Chese- 
brough  Pond,  Inc.  The  Gurnhams  are  retiring  to 
their  condominum  in  Pompano  Beach,  Fla. 

1937 

George  Maguire,  Jr.  retired  in  January  following 
forty  years  of  service  with  New  England  Tele- 
phone &  Telegraph,  Worcester. 


1938 

Norman  "Lefty"  Gamache,  who  recently  retired 
from  Norton  Co.,  is  now  with  Ramsdell  Indus- 
trial Supply  Co.,  Worcester,  on  a  part-time  basis. 
...  Dr.  Arthur  Martell,  head  of  the  chemistry 
department  at  Texas  A  &  M  University  and  a 
distinguished  professor,  has  received  the  1976 
ACS  Southwest  Regional  Award  in  recognition 
of  his  "professional  excellence." 

Since  he  joined  the  university  ten  years  ago, 
the  chemistry  department's  faculty  has  jumped 
from  23  to  60  members;  graduate  student  en- 
rollment has  doubled;  and  research  funds  have 
increased  sixfold.  He  accomplished  the  job  by 
hiring  established  chemistry  scholars  and  prom- 
ising young  scientists. 

Dr.  Martell  was  also  able  to  acqu  ire  more  than 
$1  million  worth  of  developmental  funds  to 
purchase  the  most  modern  instruments  and  to 
establish  research  programs.  Under  his  adminis- 
tration a  modern  chemistry  building  was  con- 
structed for  graduate  chemical  research,  and  a 
new  science  building  is  presently  under  con- 
struction. Prof.  Martell  has  also  helped  develop 
the  chemical  community  by  serving  industry, 
government,  and  academe. 

1939 

Now  retired  from  Bendix  Corp.,  Apostle  Dervos 
is  presently  located  in  New  Port  Richey,  Florida. 
.  .  .  Albert  Raslavsky  has  been  named  general 
chairman  of  the  1977  Bishop's  Fund  Campaign 
in  Worcester.  Speaking  of  the  appointment 
Bishop  Flanagan  said,  "Mr.  Raslavsky's  leader- 
ship is  well  known  in  the  area  of  charity.  Last 
year,  underhis  guidance,  members  of  the  execu- 
tive gifts  committee  contributed  an  average  gift 
of  $564."  Raslavsky  is  plant  superintendent  of 
H.H.  Brown  Shoe  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester.  He  is  a 
member  of  the  Alumni  Sodality  of  Holy  Cross 
College,  where  he  is  chairman  of  the  Overseas 
Medical  Aid  Committee. 

1941 

K.  Blair  Benson  was  recently  elected  editorial 
vice  president  of  the  Journal  of  the  Society  of 
Motion  Picture  and  Television  Engineers 
(SMPTE)  He  is  manager  of  technical  operations 
at  Teletronics  International,  Inc.  During  his 
career  he  has  been  employed  by  the  Radio  and 
Television  Receiver  Division  of  GE  and  the 
CBS-TV  network  engineering  department.  At 
CBS  he  became  staff  consultant  of  advanced 
technology  and  later  vice  president  of  technical 
development  for  the  EVR  division.  In  1972  he 
joined  Goldmark  Communications  as  directorof 
audio  and  video  engineering.  He  is  a  fellow  of 
SMPTE. 

Stanley  Ribb,  president  of  the  Blackstone 
Valley  Electric  Co.,  spoke  about  the  energy 
outlook  and  how  it  relates  to  h  is  company  at  the 
Greater  Woonsocket  (R.I.)  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce "745"  Breakfast  Club  meeting  in  Feb- 
ruary. He  is  a  director  of  Blackstone  Valley 
Electric,  Montaup  Electric,  EUA  Service  Corp., 
and  Pawtucket  Trust  Co.  A  trustee  of  Pawtucket 
Institution  for  Savings,  he  is  also  a  trustee  of  the 
Boys  Club  and  Pawtucket  Memorial  Hospital. 
He  has  been  active  with  the  Providence  En- 
gineering Society,  AIEE,  and  United  Way.  Heisa 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Rhode  Island 
and  Massachusetts. 


Henry  Carlson  retired  last  ye.ir  from  Kimball 
Associates,  Hartford.  Conn 


ligh  school  honors  two  WPI  alumni 


ie  Molony-Sullivan  Auditorium, 
imed  in  recognition  of  the  outstanding 
■mmunity  services  performed  by 
tiarles  F.  Sullivan,  '40,  and  the  late  John 
Molony,  '39,  was  dedicated  at  cere- 
onies  held  at  Blackstone-Millville  Re- 
Dnal  Junior-Senior  High  School  in 
luary. 

The  honorees  were  showered  with  cita- 
ms,  one  of  which  was  a  bronze  plaque 
>w  installed  in  the  school  lobby.  It  reads : 
i  recognition  of  John  P.  Molony  and 
larles  F.  Sullivan  for  their  efforts  in  the 
ganization  and  the  construction  of 
ackstone-Millville  Regional  Junior- 
nior  High  School." 
Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  secretary- 
usurer  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association, 
esented  citations  written  by  WPI  Presi- 
int  George  W.  Hazzard.  Mr.  Molony's 
aingest  daughter,  Kathleen,  a  senior  at 
TI,  accepted  his  certificate. 
Other  awards  included  an  official  cita- 
on  horn  the  Massachusetts  State  Senate, 
ith  congratulations  being  sent  by  Con- 
es sman  Joseph  D.  Early  and  Col.  John  P. 
handler  of  the  U.S.  Corps  of  Engineers  in 
/altham,  Mass. 

Thomas  J.  Cullen,  superintendent  of 
:hools,  said  at  the  outset  of  the  program 
lat  the  ceremonies  were  held  at  that 
articular  time  because  it  was  the  first 
nniversary  of  Mr.  Molony's  death.  The 
matured  speaker  was  Harold  D.  Gould,  Jr., 
jgal  counsel  for  the  regional  school  dis- 
ict.  He  said,  "We  are  publicly  acknowl- 
dging  the  significant  contributions  made 
y  two  men  in  a  joint  endeavor  of  critical 
nportance  to  you  —  the  education  of 
our  children." 


It  was  fitting  that  the  men  be  honored 
together.  They  were  lifetime  friends.  Both 
graduated  from  Blackstone  High  School, 
and  WPI,  and  both  achieved  distinction  in 
their  chosen  field  of  engineering. 

Mr.  Molony  had  held  almost  every  im- 
portant office  in  Millville.  He  was  a 
selectman,  police  chief,  fireman,  and 
Civil  Defense  director.  For  35  years  he 
was  with  the  eastern  division  of 
Wyman-Gordon  Co.,  where  he  had  been 
an  instrument  and  ultrasonic  engineer. 
Sullivan  serves  as  Chief  of  Rivers  and 
Harbors  in  the  New  England  area  with  the 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Waltham.  He 
is  also  a  member  of  the  Regional  Planning 
Board  and  served  on  the  building  commit- 
tee of  the  Kennedy  School  in  Blackstone, 
Mass. 

At  the  dedication  ceremonies,  how- 
ever, both  were  honored  for  their  service 
to  the  Regional  Committee.  Molony  was 
secretary  of  the  board  until  his  death. 
Sullivan  was  chairman  of  the  committee 
for  its  first  four  years.  They  were  instru- 
mental in  the  planning  and  construction 
of  the  school. 

Of  all  the  tributes  made  at  the  dedica- 
tion, perhaps  the  most  telling  came  from 
John  P.  Ryan,  president  of  the  senior  class. 
Said  Ryan,  "I  don't  know  where  this 
school  would  have  been  if  it  weren't  for 
these  two  men." 


Kathy  Molony,  '77,  accepts  a  citation  in 
memory  other  father  from  Alumni  Associ- 
ation secretary-treasurer  Steve  Hebert, 
'66.  Charles  F.  Sullivan,  '40,  similarly  hon- 
ored, looks  on. 


Harold  Roberton,  Jr.,  is  now  an  investment 
adviser  with  Wakely  and  Roberton  in  Spokane, 

Washington F.  William  Ziegler  was  recently 

appointed  as  vice  president  of  engineering  and 
program  manager  for  Western  Union  Space 
Communications,  a  new  subsidiary  of  Western 
Union  Corporation.  The  subsidiary,  which  is 
based  in  Upper  Saddle  River,  N.J.,  was  organ- 
ized to  build  the  world's  first  tracking  and  data 
relay  statellite  system  (TDRSS),  which  will  pro- 
vide NASA  with  communications  services  for  a 
ten-year  period  beginning  in  1980.  Western 
Union  will  share  the  system  to  provide  Ad- 
vanced Westar  satellite  service. 

1942 

Gerald  Bibeault  has  retired  as  a  project  weight 
engineer  at  Kaman  Corp.,  Aerospace  Division, 
Bloomf  ield,  N.J. .  .  .  Fred  Brierly,  Jr.  teaches  at 
David  Prouty  High  School  in  Spencer,  Mass. .  . . 
Peter  Holz  is  a  development  engineer  for  Union 
Carbide  Nuclear  Corp.  at  Oak  Ridge  (Tenn.) 
National  Laboratory. 

1943 

Richard  Bonnet  has  been  promoted  to  the  post 
of  manager  of  customer  service  at  Avtex  Fibers, 
Inc.  He  will  be  responsible  for  mill  customer 
service  pertaining  to  the  performance  and  qual- 
ity of  the  company's  rayon,  acetate,  and  polyes- 
ter products.  Also,  he  will  oversee  the  technical 
service  representatives,  resident  field  managers, 
and  the  manager  of  quality  assurance. 

In  1947  Bonnet  joined  Avtex  and  was  named 
technical  superintendent  of  the  Parkersburg,  W. 
Va.  rayon  plant  in  1955.  Later  he  was  appointed 
fibers  operations  manager  at  the  Fredericks- 
burg, Va.  plant  in  charge  of  tow  production.  The 
Bonnets  are  relocating  in  the  Valley  Forge,  Pa. 
area. 

Currently  Theodore  Pierson  holds  the  post  of 
vice  president  of  the  industrial  division  at 
Homasote  Co.,  West  Trenton,  N.J.  . .  .  Donald 
Roun  serves  as  manager  of  the  Home  Products 
Division  of  the  Crane  Co.  in  New  York  City. 

1944 

Roger  Edwards,  Jr.  is  associated  with  Cape  Cod 
Gas  Co.,  South  Yarmouth,  Mass.  .  .  .  Recently 
Carle  Highberg  was  appointed  manager  of  re- 
search and  development  for  Elgin  (III.)  Diamond 
Products  Co.  Previously  he  worked  in  develop- 
ing diamond  tooling  forthe  optical  industry — 


nrinur  ringdiure  nab  ueen  a|j|juiiii.cu  as  a  trus- 
tee of  the  Vocational  School  Department  in 
Worcester.  He  is  director  of  training  for  Cincin- 
nati Milacron-Heald  Corp.  and  was  formerly 
employed  by  General  Electric  Co.  A  vice  presi- 
dent of  Worcester's  Human  Services  Advisory 
Board,  Pingalore  is  also  a  member  of  numerous 
civic  and  professional  organizations.  .  .  .  Alfred 
Larkin,  president  of  Rexnord  International,  has 
been  named  corporate  vice  president  of  Rex- 
nord, Inc.  He  joined  Rexnord  in  1947  as  a 
student  engineering  trainee  and  held  supervi- 
sory positions  with  Rexnord's  Roller  Chain  Divi- 
sion in  Worcester  and  Springfield.  He  will  help 
to  centralize  responsibility  for  the  company's 
worldwide  operations. .  .    Leonard  Porter  is 
director  of  research  at  Parker  Mfg.  Co., 
Worcester. 


1950 


1946 


Donald  Gilmore  was  recently  appointed  control- 
ler for  Rodney  Hunt  Company  in  Orange,  Mass. 
Since  joining  the  firm  in  1952,  he  has  been 
involved  with  product  development  and  process 
equipment.  He  has  served  as  assistant  manager 
of  the  process  equipment  division  and  as  assis- 
tant product  manager  in  the  water  control 
equipment  division.  In  1972  he  was  appointed 
division  sales  manager.  Earlier  he  was  with 
WPI'sAlden  Hydraulic  Laboratory.  He  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer. 

Edmund  Oshetsky  has  been  named  general 
manager  of  manufacturing  for  Erving  Paper 
Mills.  This  is  a  new  position  with  this  paper 
manufacturer  and  converter,  which  has  opera- 
tions in  five  states.  Prior  to  joining  Erving, 
Oshetsky  had  been  with  Lincoln  (Me.)  Pulp  & 
Paper,  Scott  Paper  Co.,  and  Boise  Cascade.  .  .  . 
Robert  Russell  serves  as  marketing  develop- 
ment manager  at  Thermatool  Corp.,  Stamford, 
Conn.        Charles  Whitcomb  is  retired.  He  was 
an  aerospace  technologist  for  NASA  at  Langley 
Research  Center  in  Virginia. 

1947 

H.  Edwin  Johnson  presently  works  for  Hon- 
eywell Information  Systems,  Inc.,  Phoenix, 
Arizona  He  is  manager  of  programs  and  market- 
ing. .      Robert  Miller  has  retired  as  manager  of 
cable  engineering  at  U.S.  Steel  in  Worcester. 


1948 


Robert  Beauregard  is  with  Babcock  &  Wilcox/ 
Bailey  Meter,  Wickliffe,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Currently 
Arthur  Davis  is  a  self-employed  attorney-at-law 
in  Fresh  Meadows.  NY     .  .  Also  self-employed 
is  John  Wolanin,  Jr.  of  Worcester,  who  works  as 
a  consulting  engineer. 


1949 


Karl  Berggren,  Jr.,  who  is  with  National  Gypsum 
Co  ,  Buffalo,  N  Y  ,  is  a  licensed  professional 
engineer  and  a  registered  corrosion  specialist 

Franklin  Emerson  serves  as  assistant  manag- 
er at  Connecticut  Paperboard  Corp  ,  Uncasville, 
Conn  Daniel  McQuillan  is  now  with  Diano 
Corp  .  Woburn,  Mass  Henry  O'Donoghue, 
Jr.  holds  the  post  of  sales  manager  at  Decitek,  a 
division  of  Jamesbury  Corp  ,  Worcester 
Robert  Smith  has  resigned  from  Westinghouse 
after  23  years  and  has  opened  his  own  consult 
mg  electrical  engineering  office  in  Eugene,  Ore- 
gon        Presently  Donald  Weikman  serves  as 

I'-nt  of  Tenn  Gas  Transmission  of  Houston, 
Texas 

HI1977   WPI  Journal 


Hammond  Robertson,  Jr.  now  works  as  a  staff 
engineer  for  Hercules,  Inc.,  in  Glens  Falls,  New 
York. 

1951 

Walter  Anderson  holds  the  position  of  executive 
vice  president  at  DTI  Data  Terminals  Corp., 

Dayton,  Ohio Joseph  Gwiazdowski  recently 

received  a  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation 
award  for  his  work  on  a  study  of  the  future 
environmental  effects  of  the  supersonic  trans- 
port. The  DOT  Award  for  Superior  Achievement 
recognized  his  efforts  in  organizing  and  coor- 
dinating the  biological  studies  of  the  depart- 
ment's Climatic  Impact  Assessment  Program. 
His  report  determined  and  evaluated  the  possi- 
ble environmental  impacts  of  future  fleets  of 
various  kinds  of  aircrafts,  including  such  super- 
sonic transports  as  the  Concorde  and  the  Soviet 
Union's  TU-144.  The  final  report  submitted  to 
Congress  said  the  current  level  of  SST's  sched- 
uled to  go  into  service  would  cause  climatic 
effects  so  small  they  could  not  be  detected. 

Walter  Finneran  holds  the  post  of  principal 
engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp.  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Andrew  Freeland  serves  as  a  staff  engineer 
for  the  R.  F.  Comm.  Division  of  Harris  Corp., 
Rochester,  NY...  Leo  Lemere,  Jr.  is  a  vice 
president  at  Badger  America,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass. 

1952 

Harold  Manley  was  one  of  five  employees  in 
GTE  Sylvania's  ESG  Eastern  Division  named  to 
share  in  a  $10,000  award  in  the  research  and 
development  category  of  the  Leslie  H.  Warner 
Technical  Achievement  Program.  The  award 
was  given  for  the  development  of  a  speech 
encoder,  wh  ich  by  means  of  a  computer,  codes 
speech  in  a  digital  manner.  The  employees' 
scientific  accomplishments  made  important 
contributions  to  the  growth  and  profitability  of 
the  GTE  companies. 

Manley,  manager  of  East's  systems  engineer- 
ing department,  started  at  GTE  in  1954.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  invention  of  a  revolutionary 
voice  encoding  system  and  for  adapting  it  to 
practical  application  in  an  electronic  data  proc- 
essing system.  He  belongs  to  the  American 
Institute  of  Physics  and  the  Acoustical  Society  of 
America,  and  holds  several  patents  for  his  work 
in  speech  compression. 

Paul  Spaulding  has  started  his  own  business, 
Spaulding  Devco.  Inc.,  Engineers  &  Builders, 
with  an  office  in  Wallingford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Daniel 
Stoughton  has  joined  Synergo  Co.,  Philadelphia 
engineers,  as  manager  of  its  industrial  division. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  the  design  of  all  of  the 
firm's  industrial  projects.  Formerly  he  was  with 
Allied  Chemical  Corp.  for  24  years.  In  1970  he 
was  named  manager  of  project  engineering  for 
All ied's  specialty  chemicals  division  and  was 
responsible  for  providing  engineering  services 
to  18  company  plants  throughout  the  country. 

1953 

Dr  Arnold  Allentuch  is  the  dean  of  research  at 
New  Jersey  Institute  of  Technology  in  Newark. 


1954 

Donald  McEwan  serves  as  vice  president  and 
director  of  operations  for  ITT  Avionics  Division 

inNutley,  N.J Presently  Robert  Milne  is  vice 

president  of  G  &  H  Decoy,  Inc.,  Henryetta, 
Oklahoma. . . .  David  Nygard  is  the  new  man- 
ager of  Management  Information  Services  at 
Crosby  Valve  &  Gage  Company  in  Wrentham, 
Mass.  His  responsibilities  include  supervision  of 
the  data  processing  department  and  decisions 
involving  project  control,  information  dissemi- 
nation and  retrieval,  and  special  planning.  A 
certified  data  processer,  he  was  formerly  man- 
ager of  the  adm  in  istrative  staff  of  Price 
Waterhouse  &  Co.,  Boston;  director  of  data 
processing,  Bird  &  Son,  East  Walpole;  and  man- 
ager of  data  processing  at  Morgan  Construction 
Co.,  Worcester. . . .  Richard  Olson  was  recently 
promoted  to  assistant  professor  of  mathematic 
at  WPI. 

Dr.  John  Russell  serves  as  pathologist  and 
associate  professor  at  Crouse  Irving  Memorial 
Hospital,  Syracuse,  N.Y. . . .  William 
Schoenemann  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  ol 
operations  at  Microform  Data  Systems,  Moun- 
tain View,  Calif Otto  Wahlrab  is  president  o 

John  P.  Slade  Insurance,  Fall  River,  Mass. 

1956 

Nicholas  Moffa,  SIM,  a  26-year  employee  of 
Bay  State  Abrasives,  Westboro,  Mass.,  has  beer 
appointed  president  of  the  division  by  the  par- 
ent company,  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.  The  local 
division  is  the  nation's  third  largest  producer  of 
diamond  and  bonded  abrasive  grinding  wheels 
which  are  used  largely  in  making  hard  steel 
tools.  Previously  Moffa  was  vice  president  for 
manufacturing  in  the  Bay  State  division.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1951  as  a  production  foreman 
Presently  he  serves  as  president  of  the  Grinding 

Wheel  Institute WinslowSpofford  works foi 

Parco  Engineering  in  Medfield,  Mass. 

1957 

Alan  Carlan  is  a  member  of  the  techn  ical  staff  at 
Aerospace  Corporation  in  El  Segundo,  Calif. . . 
Elliott  Heith  is  a  senior  engineer  with  Hubbell 
Wiring  Devices,  Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  .  .  Norm 
Landry  serves  as  principal  member  of  the  en- 
gineering staff  at  RCA  in  Moorestown,  N.J.  .  . 
Ralph  Schlenker  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
the  mechanical  division  at  Exxon  Research  and 
Engineering  in  Linden,  NJ. 

1958 

Dr.  James  Demetry  has  been  promoted  to  pro 
fessor  of  systems  engineering  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
Clifford  Pontbriand  is  vice  president  at  Warner 
Lambert  Co.  in  Chelsea,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert 
Simmonds,  Jr.  is  now  a  senior  systems  engineer 
for  USM  Corp.  in  the  development  labs  at 
Beverly,  Mass. 


WPI's  man  in  charge 
at  Chevrolet 
engineering 

J  When  Motor  Trend  magazine  recently 

■  gave  its  "Car  of  the  Year"  award  to  the 
'  new,  smaller,  Chevrolet  Caprice,  they 

cited  the  efforts  of  several  men  at  General 
Motors  who  helped  create  the  car.  One  of 

•  them,  featured  on  the  magazine's  cover, 
;  was  WPI's  own  Robert  C.  Stempel,  '55, 

■  who  is  director  of  engineering  for  Chev- 
rolet Motor  Division. 

Stempel,  43,  joined  GM's  Oldsmobile 
Division  in  1958.  He  held  various  posi- 
tions in  the  division  until  1973,  when  he 
was  made  special  assistant  to  the  presi- 
dent of  General  Motors.  While  at  Olds- 
mobile,  he  earned  a  master's  degree  in 
business  administration  from  Michigan 
State  University  in  1970.  In  1974,  Stem- 
pel  was  transferred  to  the  Chevrolet  En- 
gineering Department,  which  he  was 

.  named  to  head  in  October  1975.  In  June, 

:  WPI  is  awarding  him  an  honorary  Doctor 

:  of  Engineering  degree. 

Interviewed  at  his  Warren,  Michigan, 
office  recently,  Bob  Stempel  talked  about 

.  the  role  of  engineers  today.  "The  world 

•  needs  answers,  and  is  looking  to  the  en- 
gineering fraternity  —  second  in  numbers 
only  to  the  teaching  profession  in  this 
nation  —  to  provide  them.  And  engineers 
are  providing  those  answers  in  many 
areas,  including  electric  power,  water 
supply,  waste  disposal,  marine  and  space 
science,  building  and  highway  construc- 
tion, private  and  mass  transit,  consumer 
products,  pollution  control,  and  highway 
safety." 

Stempel  believes  that  two  important 
words  in  the  engineering  lexicon  —  com- 
plexity and  practicality  —  have  taken  on 
new  significance  in  the  past  decade.  "En- 
gineers have  put  man  on  the  moon  — 
perhaps  the  most  complex  engineering 
feat  in  the  history  of  mankind,"  he  said. 
"At  the  same  time,  the  engineer  is  a 
practical  man,  shouldering  civilization's 
mundane,  day-to-day  problems  and,  for 
the  most  part,  solving  them." 

He  talked  for  a  while  about  some  of  the 
engineering  projects  he's  been  involved  in 
at  GM,  projects  where  "practical,  every- 
day problem-solving  was  absolutely  es- 

■.  sential  to  the  success  and  continuance  of 
the  company's  product  line-up."  He  men- 
tioned the  front-wheel-drive  project  for 
Oldsmobile's  Toronado.  He  mentioned 

;  the  catalytic  converter  program,  where  he 


worked  with  GM  president  Ed  Cole  in 
coordinating  the  across-the-board  appli- 
cation of  the  device  to  all  the  company's 
major  car  lines.  Finally,  he  discussed  "one 
of  the  most  challenging  engineering 
development  projects  of  my  career  —  the 
building  of  an  entire  new  car  line  from  the 
ground  up  —  the  1977  GM  full-size  car 
line." 

Stempel  said  that  this  project  "used  the 
most  advanced  automobile  engineering 
technologies  available,  including  com- 
puter finite-element  modeling,  plastic 
model  stress  analysis,  ride  simulation, 
and  aerodynamic  wind-tunnel  testing. 
These  new  cars  were  born  of  and  into  an 
energy-  and  raw-material-short  world 
looking  for  new  vehicles  offering  greater 
fuel  economy,  more  interior  and  trunk 
space,  and  significant  overall  mass  reduc- 
tion." 

Stempel  heads  a  department  of  some 
2,900  engineers,  physicists,  mathema- 
ticians, and  technicians  responsible  for 
the  engineering  of  some  3,000,000  cars 
and  trucks  annually.  He  commented  that 
his  "young  engineers  are  happy  to  find 
themselves  on  the  leading  edge  of 
technology,"  then  added,  "unfortunately, 
this  has  not  always  been  the  case.  When  I 
started,  it  seemed  we  used  to  'follow  the 
classroom'  by  quite  a  margin.  Now,  our 
engineers,  with  the  widest  variety  of  ad- 
vanced technology  and  tools  at  their 
fingertips,  are  in  the  forefront  of  today's 
engineering  knowledge.  Even  our  sum- 
mer student  employees  tell  us  they  see 
more  new  things  here  at  Chevrolet  En- 
gineering than  they  do  back  in  the  class- 
room." 


Robert  Stempel,  '55,  shown  with  the  1977 
Chevrolet  Caprice,  one  of  the  new  genera- 
tion of  smaller,  more  efficient  cars  he  has 
helped  create  for  General  Motors. 


One  thing  that  concerns  Stempel, 
though,  is  the  trend  toward  overspe- 
cialization  in  the  engineering  profession. 
"Specialization  to  a  controlled  degree,  and 
in  certain  engineering  disciplines,  is  a 
good  thing,"  he  said.  "But  in  specializing 
we  must  guard  against  becoming  too  nar- 
row in  our  outlook.  Here  we're  trying  to 
make  sure  our  engineers  are  moved  be- 
tween assignments,  so  that  they'll  have 
new  experiences  in  different  engineering 
disciplines,  technologies,  and  environ- 
ments, but  they  won't  be  locked  into 
them  forever. 

"Because  in  the  long  run,  the  better 
engineer  is  the  man  who  can  use  many 
disciplines  to  effect  a  better  design  and, 
ultimately,  a  better  product."  Bob  Stem- 
pel  certainly  ought  to  know  about  that, 
because  that's  what  he's  spent  his  career 
working  toward  . . .  and  that's  just  the 
kind  of  engineer  he  is. 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/25 


1959 

In  January  Peter  Nelson  was  appointed  manager 
of  works  engineering  in  the  Electro-Mechanical 
Division  of  Westinghouse  Electric  Corporation, 
Cheswick,  Pa.  Earlier  he  had  been  manager  of 
testing  operations.  (Both  departments  are  part 
of  the  manufacturing  department.)  June  will 
mark  his  18th  year  with  Westinghouse.  Pete, 
who  is  president  of  the  Pittsburgh  Chapter  of 
the  Alumni  Association,  having  served  previ- 
ously as  vice  president  and  secretary-treasurer, 
has  also  served  ASME  as  past  chairman  of  the 
Westmoreland  Section  and  as  chairman  of  the 
Region  V  Member  Interests  Committee.  (The 
region  includes  Western  Pennsylvania,  Ohio, 
West  Virginia,  Ontario,  and  parts  of  Michigan.) 

Pete  has  been  a  member  of  the  Ethical  Prac- 
tices Committee  of  the  Pittsburgh  Chapter  of 
the  Pennsylvania  Society  of  Professional  En- 
gineers. Presently  he  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Massachusetts,  Pennsylvania,  and 
Ohio.  Pete,  his  wife  Marjorie  and  sons,  Craig,  3, 
and  Scott,  6V2,  reside  in  Murrysville,  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

John  "Jack"  Britt,  Jr.  has  been  appointed 
director  of  Region  5  for  the  Massachusetts 
Office  for  Children.  Besides  being  responsible 
for  six  area  children's  offices  within  the  region, 
he  will  chair  the  regional  interdepartmental 
team  consisting  of  representatives  from  welfare 
and  mental  health  agencies,  youth  services,  and 

the  department  of  education Joseph  Burger 

holds  the  post  of  chief  project  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

Presently  David  Daubney  serves  as  manager 
of  mechanical  engineering  for  Astra  Phar- 
maceutical Products,  Inc.,  Worcester. .  .  .  Ches- 
ter Jacobson  is  principal  engineer  at  Gillette  Co., 
Boston        Robert  Kaye  is  president  of  Gerber& 
Hurley,  Inc.,  West  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Orr 
Shepherd  is  employed  as  chief  engineer  for 
Visidyne,  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass. 

1960 

Donald  Cloud  holds  the  position  of  president  of 
Country  Home  Development  Corp.,  Guilford, 
Conn. . . .  Norman  Hardy  has  assumed  the  duties 
of  marketing  manager  of  Delnet  for  Hercules, 
Inc .,  Wilmington,  Delaware.  He  is  responsible 
for  the  medical,  filtration,  and  food  processing 
markets        Nathaniel  Johnson  presently  serves 
as  vice  president  and  general  manager  of  TECO 
Corp  ,  Winnisquam,  N.H.        Paul  Jolicoeur 
works  for  Mohawk  Data  Sciences  in  Parsippany, 
N  J  ,  where  he  is  director  of  marketing  opera- 
tions 

1961 

Theodore  Cocca  is  missile  fire  control  systems 
manager  for  the  US  Naval  Sea  Systems  Com- 
mand in  the  medium  range  missile  systems 
division  of  the  Navy  Department  in 
Washington,  DC         Brian  Gartner  serves  as 
president  of  Weatherguard  Service,  Inc  ,  Bronx, 
New  York         Richard  Lamothe  has  been 
promoted  to  associate  professor  of  civil  en- 
gineering at  WPI 


1962 

James  Forand,  Jr.  was  recently  promoted  to 
project  manager  for  the  sales  engineering  divi- 
sion in  Bethlehem  (Pa.)  Steel  Corporation's  sales 
department.  Formerly  he  was  a  development 
engineer  in  the  division.  In  his  new  post,  he  will 
be  responsible  for  the  activities  of  a  newly 
formed  interdepartmental  automotive  project 
team.  Previously  Forand  was  with  Inland  Steel 
and  joined  Bethlehem  in  1965.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Lehigh  University.  .  .  .  Robert  Hall,  man- 
ager of  new  product  development  at  New  Eng- 
land High  Carbon  Wire  Co.,  is  the  current 
chairman  of  the  Worcester  section  of  the  Ameri- 
can Society  for  Metals. 

1963 

Paul  Cahalen  is  national  sales  manager  for 
Bepex  Corp.  of  Santa  Rosa,  Calif.  He  is  located  in 
Howell,  N.J.  .  .  .  David  Dunklee,  Jr.  works  for 
Molycorp,  Inc.  in  Louviers,  Colorado  as  an  ana- 
lytical chemist.  . . .  Leslie  Hart  is  divisions  patent 
counsel  at  Harris  Corp.  in  Melbourne,  Fla. .  .  . 
Joseph  Mancuso,  professor  of  management  en- 
gineering at  WPI,  has  been  elected  a  director  of 
Moore  Survey  and  Mapping  Corp.,  Shrewsbury 
and  Northeast  Airphoto  Associates,  Inc.  ...  A. 
Stephen  Otis  was  recently  named  an  assistant 
vice  president  of  Merrill  Lynch,  Pierce,  Fenner& 
Smith,  Inc.  In  1970  Otis  joined  the  firm  as  an 
account  executive  trainee,  and  was  named  a 
senior  account  executive  last  year.  The  firm  is 
the  nation's  largest  securities  company. 

1964 

Dr.  Stuart  Bowen  owns  and  manages  the  Wil- 
liamsville  Inn  in  West  Stockbridge,  Mass. . . . 
Peter  Fenner  holds  the  post  of  regional  analyst 
manager  at  Systems  Engineering  Laboratories  in 
Dallas,  Texas.  .  .  .  Ronald  Klay  is  general  super- 
visor of  material  control  at  Polaroid  Corp., 

Waltham,  Mass Charles  Lombardo  serves  as 

president  of  Wall  Street  Graphic  Corp.,  New 
York  City. 

1965 

Continuing  with  Fram  Corp.,  Peter  Behmke  is 
currently  a  staff  engineer. . . .  George  Cordes,  Jr. 
is  a  buyer  for  Titeflex,  a  division  of  Atlas  Corp., 
Springfield,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  Bennett  Gordon  has 
been  promoted  to  assistant  professor  of  me- 
chanical engineering  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Thomas 
Homon  serves  as  an  assistant  marketing  man- 
ager for  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  in  Akron, 
Ohio.  . .  .  Richard  Rice  is  a  graduate  assistant  at 
Michigan  State  University  in  East  Lansing.  .  .  . 
Robert  St.  Pierre  has  been  named  supervisor  of 
machine  design  and  development  engineering 
in  Torrington  Company's  Needle  Division.  He 
joined  the  Connecticut  firm  in  1965  as  an 
engineering  trainee.  Since  1975  he  has  served  as 
a  knitting  needle  engineer.  .      Martin  Soja  is 
manager  of  marketing  systems  development  for 
American  Airlines  in  New  York  City. 

1966 

Gary  Anderson  works  for  Gingery  Associates, 
Inc  ,  Englewood,  Colorado        Gerald  Nimberg 
is  presently  a  market  research  consultant  for  Sun 
Information  Services  in  Wayne,  Pa. . .  . 
Raojibhai  Patel,  who  was  formerly  with  E.W. 
Bliss  Co.,  is  presently  with  New  York  City  Hous- 
ing Authority         John  Seferiadis  works  as  an 


environmental  engineer  tor  Camp  Dresser  & 
McKee,  Boston.  .  .  .  Peter  Singer  holds  the  post 
of  manager  of  computer  products  at  Electronics 
for  Medicine  in  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  Robert 
Wilson  now  serves  as  an  advanced  process 
engineer  for  GE.  In  his  new  position  he  is  doing 
process  development  for  advanced  gas  turbine 
engine  materials.  He  is  located  in  Cincinnati. 

1967 

Christopher  Cridge  is  associated  with  Porcelain 
Button  Beauties,  Inc.,  Morrisville,  Pa. . .  .  John 
Feldman  is  in  research  development  at  the  U.S. 

Environmental  Protection  Agency  in  Boston 

Richard  Jewell  has  accepted  the  position  of 
manager  of  analog  products  at  Fairch  ild  Camera 
and  Instrument  Corp.,  Mountain  View,  Calif. 
Paul  Kalinowski  was  recently  appointed  a 
research  engineer  in  the  organic  business  group 
for  the  research  and  development  department  of 
the  Norton  Co.  Grinding  Wheel  Division.  He 
started  at  Norton  in  1966  as  a  process  machine 
operator.  In  1968  he  was  named  a  research 
assistant  and  in  1974,  an  engineering  assistant. 
...  J.  Wayne  Miller  serves  as  a  research  engineer 
for  Union  Oil  of  California  in  Brea.  .  .  .  James 
Wentworth  is  currently  chief  of  program 
analysis  for  the  Federal  H  igh  way  Adm  in  istration 
in  Washington,  D.C.  .  . .  Warren  Zepp,  Jr.  is  a 
sanitary  engineer  for  the  Metropolitan  District 
Commission  in  Framingham,  Mass. 

1968 

^■Married:  Kenneth  R.  Blaisdell,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Barbra  R.  Hand  on  Thanksgiving  Day  in  Aber- 
deen, Scotland.  Mrs.  Blaisdell  was  educated  in 
London  and  graduated  from  Syracuse  University 
where  she  also  received  her  master's  degree  in 
English  and  remedial  reading.  The  Blaisdells 
teach  at  the  American  School  in  Aberdeen. 

Frank  Alberti,  Jr.  serves  as  an  instructor  in  civil 
technology  at  Worcester  Industrial  Technical 
Institute.  .  .  .  John  Demeo  is  taking  courses 
leading  to  a  sixth  year  certificate  in  education  at 
Southern  Connecticut  State  College. .  . .  Robert 
Gallo  is  with  the  Public  Utilities  Control  Author- 
ity in  Hartford,  Conn Gerald  Lyons,  MNS,  is 

head  of  the  mathematics  department  at  North 

Quincy  (Mass.)  High  School Paul  Matukaitis 

is  an  attorney  in  the  patent  department  at 
Monsanto  Co.,  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 

Edward  O'Hara  is  associated  with  Elcen  Metal 
Products  Company  in  Esmond,  R.I.  .  .  .  Roger 
Pryor,  senior  physicist  at  Pitney  Bowes,  Nor- 
walk,  Conn.,  has  been  listed  in  the  1977  edition 
of  Who's  Who  in  the  East.  .  .  .  Century  21  Mark 
IV  Realty,  Inc.,  a  corporation  owned  by  Richard 
Rubino,  MNS,  has  become  the  50th,  51st,  and 
52nd  offices  of  the  Connecticut  Century  21 
franchise  system.  The  main  office  is  in  Plainville 
with  two  other  branches  being  in  Bristol  and 
Southington.  Rubino,  who  has  been  president 
of  Century  21  Mark  IV  Realty,  Inc.  for  two  years, 
previously  spent  six  years  as  the  manager  of  a 
real  estate  firm  in  Farmington.  .  .  .  Jeffrey 
Semmel  serves  as  a  senior  systems  programmer 
at  Genrad,  Inc.  in  Concord,  Mass. . . .  Currently 
Marshall  Taylor  is  with  Ryder  Systems  in  Miami, 
Florida. 


26    April  19//    WPI  Journal 


Working  towards  safer  buildings 


"Massachusetts  has  the  potential  for  a 
fairly  large  earthquake,"  says  Norton 
Remmer,  '60,  Worcester's  first  code  in- 
spection commissioner.  "Back  in  the 
1700's  there  were  several  in  the  Cape  Ann 
area,  which  have  been  estimated  by  ex- 
perts to  have  been  between  6  and  7  on  the 
Richter  scale." 

In  1972  a  geodetic  survey  put  Boston 
into  the  same  earthquake  zone  as  San 
Francisco  and  Los  Angeles.  The  informa- 
tion spurred  the  state  to  make  its  own 
earthquake  code  in  1975,  one  which 
Remmer,  who  was  then  a  technical  direc- 
tor for  the  state  Building  Code  Commis- 
sion, helped  write. 

The  code  committee  established  a  new 
level  of  risks  and  instituted  new  struc- 
tural design  provisions.  "Basically  the 
provisions  made  very  little  difference  in 


ordinary  building  costs,"  Remmer  re- 
ports. "The  so-called  normal  buildings 
were  designed  to  resist  winds  anyway,  so 
few  changes  had  to  be  made. 

The  main  upshot  of  the  code  change 
was  to  make  the  structural  engineers 
learn  more  about  structural  resistance  to 
earthquakes.  Now  they  need  more  ability 
to  design. 

The  Worcester  County  National  Bank 
building  and  Mechanics  Tower  at 
Worcester  Center  were  designed  before 
the  new  code  went  into  effect.  Remmer 
believes  that  they  were  designed  for  high 
wind  resistance  and  could  pretty  well 
withstand  earthquakes.  "There's  much 
less  risk  in  Worcester  than  in  Boston,"  he 
says. 

As  it  stands  now,  the  new  code  doesn't 
contain  any  provisions  for  conserving  en- 


ergy. Several  different  standards  have 
been  proposed  by  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards  and  the  Refrigeration  and  Air 
Conditioning  Engineers.  The  latter  group 
has  developed  four  sets  of  standards,  with 
the  latest  being  generally  accepted.  How- 
ever, until  the  state  or  local  authorities 
make  it  statutory,  it  won't  be  enforceable. 

"The  state  has  a  draft  that  it  is  consider- 
ing concerning  requirements  for  new 
buildings,"  Remmer  says.  "It  will  proba- 
bly be  another  six  months,  however,  be- 
fore the  commissioners  have  something 
solid." 

One  safety  standard  that  is  already  in 
the  code  books  is  a  fire  protection  provi- 
sion. Many  buildings,  both  old  and  new, 
now  have  smoke  detectors,  smoke 
evacuator  systems,  and  sprinklers.  "Fire 
prevention  has  become  an  important  part 
of  the  building  design  industry,"  says 
Remmer. 

Following  graduation  from  WPI,  Rem- 
mer won  a  fellowship  to  Yale  where  he 
received  a  master's  degree.  He  also  earned 
a  master's  degree  at  Oxford  University  in 
England.  For  four  years  he  was  a  teaching 
and  research  assistant  at  Oxford.  He  then 
served  as  a  senior  research  engineer  for 
Norton  Co.  for  five  years.  In  1974-75  he 
was  president  of  the  Central  Massachu- 
setts Chapter  of  the  National  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers. 

Currently  Remmer  serves  on  the  Presi- 
dent's Science  Advisor's  Advisory  Com- 
mittee on  Earthquake  Prediction  and 
Hazard  Mitigation  and  as  task  group 
chairman  in  the  project  developing  na- 
tionally applicable  seismic  design  provi- 
sions for  the  National  Science  Founda- 
tion. He  is  a  member  of  the  Systems 
Concepts  for  Fire  Protection  in  Structures 
Committee  of  the  National  Fire  Protec- 
tion Association  and  is  on  the  research 
advisory  committee  for  Seismic  Design 
Decision  Analysis  at  MIT. 

Recently  he  was  involved  with  several 
seminars,  one  being  concerned  with  the 
development  of  the  Massachusetts  Seis- 
mic Code  for  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards  and  federal  agencies,  and 
another  being  "How  Building  Codes  Ad- 
dress Fire  Development"  for  the 
Berkeley-MIT  Firesafety  Program. 
Among  his  papers  have  been  "Reports  on 
the  Developments  in  the  Applied 
Technology  Council  Project  ATC-3," 
ASCE,  SEACC,  and  EERI;  and  "Code 
Concerns  for  Seismic  Design  of  Non- 
structural Elements,"  AIA  Research  Cor- 
poration. 


WPI  Journal/April  1977/27 


We  re  missing  a  lew  people 

and  we'd  like  your  help  in  locating  them.  If  you  know  the 
addresses  of  any  of  these  alumni,  please  drop  a  line  to  the 
Alumni  Association  at  WPI.  Thanks. 


Roy  G.  Lewis,  '00 
Winfred  M.  Adams,  '02 
Herbert  W.  Tufts,  '03 
Elipidio  de  L.  Werneck,  '03 
Manuel  G.  Rosado,  '05 
Ralph  S.  Forsstedt,  '06 
Walter  P.  Ingham,  '06 
George  G.  Whitney,  '07 
Stephen  M.  Poutier,  TO 
lames  F.  Thompson,  '10 
Arvid  I.  Peterson,  '1 1 
William  I.  Randall,    11 
Charles  O.  Snow,  '13 
Edward  H.  Vance,  '13 
Harry  D.  Stephens,  '14 
Warren  L.  Ellis,  '15 
Roland  D.  Hawkins,  '15 
Gilbert  M.  Ireland,  '16 
Joaquim  de  R.  Junqueira,  '16 
Herbert  C.  Kelly,  '17 
Walter  I.  Stearns,  '  1 7 
Edward  L.  Anton,  '18 
Frank  J.  Murphy,  '18 
Prof.  Douglas  E.  Howes,  '20 
George  A.  Bijur,  '21 
Milton  W.  Graff,  '21 
Joseph  F.  Scanlan,  '21 
Joseph  T.  Fanning,  '22 
Francis  W.  Harney,  '22 
Robert  M.  Wilder,  '22 
Sidney  H.  Avery,  '24 
Richard  F.  Whitcomb,  '24 
Tzu-Hzu  Chou,  '25 
Charles  E.  Crang,  '25 
John  J.  Hynes,  '25 
Charles  F.  Stevens,  '25 
George  C.  Chow,  '27 
YatW.Chow, '27 
Ronald  E.  Jones,  '27 
Maxwell  L.  Stoughton,  '27 
Gordon  N.  McColley,  '28 
Leo  J.  Melican,  '28 
Alvar  O.  Ericson,  '30 
Edward  T.  Fox,  Jr.,  '30 
Arthur  1    Pierce,  Jr.,  '30 
Francis  ()  Carlstrom,  3  1 
Jay  M  Harpell,  '31 
Lewis  S.  H.iskins,  '3  1 
Arthur  B.  Br.uncrd,  Jr.,  '32 
George  L  ( )man,  '32 
form  H  Porteus,  '32 
(luster  A.  Wcrmc,  '32 
Ellis  R    Brown,  '  33 

Stephen  s  f  laynes,  '33 

I  homaa  A.  Hyde,  Jr.,  '33 
Wright  M  Manvel,  '33 
I  homaa  I    McLoughlin,  '  J3 
lohu  I  Molloy,  |r ,  '33 
(  barlea  1 1  Newsome,  '33 
William  A  Michalek'  14 
R.i\ mond  < .  I  Ksriu  hers,  '35 

Alv.iro  A    Silv.i 

28    April  1977    WPI  Journal 


Louis  D.  Soloway,  '35 
Joseph  A.  Sukaskas,  '35 
William  F.  Atwood,  Jr.,  '36 
Dr.  Paul  M.  Downey,  '36 
William  Miseveth,  '36 
John  H.  Chapman,  '37 
Frank  Ellsworth,  '37 
Roland  O.  Farrar,  '37 
James  F.  Swartwout,  Jr.,  '37 
Fred  E.  Wiley,  '38 
Samuel  A.  A.  Aaron,  '39 
S.  Richard  Abbot,  '39 
Irving  W.  Forde,  '39 
William  F.Payne,  '39 
Raymond  B.  Piper,  '39 
Charles  S.  Stevens,  '39 
Robert  J.  Cannon,  '40 
Joseph  J.  Platukis,  '40 
Bernard  Polonsky,  '40 
WillardJ.  Riddick,  Jr.,  '40 
Harry  E.  Stirling,  '40 
Alfred  F.  Andersen,  '41 
Col.  Warren  S.  Bradford,  '41 
Burgess  P.  Brownson,  '41 
Lyle  W.  Carpenter,  '41 
Paul  G.  Nystrom,  '41 
Frederick  S.  Sherwin,  '41 
Chamroon  Tishyanandana,  '41 
Morris  C.  Chu,  '42 
Burton  Franklin,  '42 
David  L.  Hartwell,  '42 
Kenneth  T.  Hunt,  '42 
George  Cagen,  '43 
Everett  W.  Dunlap,  '43 
Wilmot  J.  Keogh,  '43 
Clifford  B.  Moller,  '43 
Harold  E.  O'Malley,  '43 
Marshall  B.  Raybin,  '43 
Dr.  George  P.  Scott,  '43 
Louis  J.  Baldini,  '44 
Peter  E.  Talley,  '44 
David  M.  Trotsky,  '44 
Harrison  Bragdon,  '45 
Donald  M.  Campbell,  '45 
(  1 1 1 lord  E.  Lanigan,  '45 
Leonard  F.  Moore,  '45 
Alvi  T.  Twing,  Jr.,  '45 
Philip  S.  Adams,  '46 
Irwin  G.  Benkert,  '46 
Gaetano  Biuso,  '46 
[ohn  M.  Considine,  '46 
Wilton  A.  Ericson,  '46 
Christopher  A.  Herbert,  '46 
William  J.  Kelly,  '46 
Dr.  Myer  Krulfekl,  '46 
Philip  R   I.oshm,  '46 
Dr.  Karl  M.  Mayer,  '46 
Allan  W.  McCoy,  '46 
Elton  K.  Morice,  Jr.,  '46 
Akin  M.  Ross,  '46 
Sidney  S   Sperling,  '46 
Jose  R.  Biamon,  '47 


Roland  H.Guay,  '47 
William  Longmuir,  '47 
Vaikunth  C.  Thakar,  '47 
Benjamin  B.  Barker,  Jr.,  '48 
David  I.  Caplan,  '48 
David  B.  George,  '48 
Charles  A.  Heyelman,  '48 
Julian  H.  Jacobs,  '48 
BirgerD.  Lund,  Jr.,  '48 
William  R.Olha,  '48 
Shou  L.  Pan,  '48 
Per  Roed,  '48 
Leonard  D.  Rood,  '48 
Thomas  H.  Wyllie,  Jr.,  '48 
Charles  C.  Allen,  '49 
Elmer  R.  Griffith,  Jr.,  '49 
Frederick  S.  Jenkins,  Jr.,  '49 
John  E.  McCarthy,  '49 
Tsu-Yen  Mei,  '49 
James  B.  Morin  '49 
Harry  J.  Rogers,  '49 
Vernon  H.  Russell,  '49 
Joseph  T.  Starr,  '49 
Philip  L.Barbaccia,  '50 
Fred  A.  Carmody,  '50 
Morey  L.  Hodgman,  '50 
Robert  L.  Tagen,  '50 
Ellsworth  R.  Cramer,  '51 
Constantino  Mustakis,  '51 
Mehmet  R.  Ozbas,  '51 
Ratanshaw  K.  Patel,  '51 
Richard  E.  Snyder,  '51 
Mustafa  T.  Sonmez,  '51 
Dick  Van  Den  Berge,  '5 1 
Bernard  G.  Ziobrowski,  '51 
Robert  C.  Henegan,  '52 
JackY.T.  Kwan,  '52 
Edmund  M.  Luzgauskas,  '52 
Lysle  P.  Parlett,  '52 
Bernard  J.  Petrillo,  '52 
Richard  G.  Schmitt,  '52 
Stanley  C.  Andrukonis,  '53 
KarlH.  Bissell,  Jr., '53 
Martin  R.  Cohen,  '53 
Ernest  E.  Demar,  '53 
Theodore  C.  Fritz,  Jr.,  '53 
Joseph  A.  Holmes,  '53 
NasuhM.Malas,  '53 
Hugh  R.  McLaughlin,  '53 
David  C.  Morrison,  '53 
Richard  W.  Morton,  '53 
Paul  C.  Murray,  '53 
Harold  G.  Rackett,  '53 
Philip  R.  Randall,  '53 
Dr.  Wu  Mei  Yao,  '53 
Souren  Jaffarian,  Jr.,  '54 
Framrose  M.  Karani,  '54 
lames  F.  King,  '54 
Haralambos  N.  Kritikos,  '54 
Harold  Lake,  '54 
Jack  K.  Mackowiak,  '54 
Robert  S.  Nahas,  '54 
Raymond  M.  H.  Naudin,  '54 
George  W.  Bibber,  '55 
fames  E.  Clampett,  '55 
Markar  A.  I).  Markarian,  '55 
Alan  F.  Petit,  '55 
Antonio  Aianguren,  '56 
Frederic  A.  Highman,  '56 
John  ll  Lillibridge,  HI,  '56 


Herbert  P.  Schoeck,  Jr.,  '56 
Thomas  E.  Weber,  '56 
Lawrence  E.  Alston,  '57 
Santo  M.  Bramande,  '57 
Frank  Rich  Goodwin,  '57 
Joseph  D.  Grzyb,  Jr.,  '57 
Barrera  Augusto  Ramirez,  '57 
Michael  Spiegel,  '57 
Israel  Sverner,  '57 
Benjamin  G.  Uy,  '57 
Joseph  L.  Chenail,  '58 
Robert  J.  Dunn,  '58 
Frank  K.Lind,  '58 
Richard  E.  Lorenz,  '58 
Nicholas  S.  Petralias,  '58 
Dr.  Sherman  K.  Poultney,  '58 
Frank  A.  Seidel,  '58 
Roberto  Jaramillo,  Jr.,  '59 
James  W.  Mahoney,  '59 
Robert  W.  Milik,  Jr.,  '59 
Robert  B.  Palmer,  '59 
Harvey  J.  Rosenfeld,  '59 
Ozden  Asian,  '60 
William  M.  Cannon,  '60 
Dr.  Jo-Chao  Chueh,  '60 
Richard  D.  Cooper,  '60 
Gungor  Dagistanli,  '60 
Terrence  M.  Dupuis,  '60 
Richard  S.  Johnson,  '60 
Capt.  Joseph  S.  Kaye,  '60 
Stuart  W.  Macomber,  '60 
Frank  R.  Materese,  '60 
Paul  C.Miller,  '60 
Kenneth  Roberts,  '60 
Peter  H.  Schneider,  '60 
Capt.  Howard  D.  Stephenson,  '61 
Mating  T.  Swe,  '60 
AraTutunjian,  '60 
Brother  Augustine  Bemis,  '61 
George  R.  Bolduc,  '61 
Kayhan  Boro,  '6 1 
Douglas  H.  Cormier,  '61 
Eduardo  Cruz,  '6 1 
Terry  W.  Donovan,  '61 
Evan  G.  Duane,  '61 
Suat  Gonen,  '61 
William  C.  Hayes,  '61 
Richard  W.  Johnson,  '61 
JohnW.  Kappel, '61 
Swang  Lee-Aphon,  '61 
Richard  A.  Levendusky,  '61 
Russell  C.  Lockwood,  Jr.,  '61 
George  Matassov,  '61 
Mating  T.  Mating,  '6 1 
Dr.  Timothy  C.  Meyers,  Jr.,  '61 
LTCDR.  Leonard  E.  Pickens,  '6 
Husein  Y.  Pothiawala,  '61 
Donald  E.Schaaf,  '61 
George  M.  Storti,  '61 
Donald  W.  Wilmot,  '61 
MaungN.  Win,  '61 
Haines  |.  Boyle, '62 
Yigit  Bozkurt,  '62 
Mehmet  I.  Can,  '62 
Victoi  B  Castellani,  '62 
Richard  I).  Hartley,  '62 
Capt.  [ackie  P.  Matteus,  '62 
Robert  Ci.  McDonald, '62 
Michael  A.  Moses,  '62 
Nelson  E.  Parmelee,  '62 


'hilip  S.  Pilibosian,  '62 

lichard  S.  Price,  '62 

William  H.  C.  Reinert,  '62 

\rve  Syverud,  '62 

Jasat  H.  Tilkicioglu,  '62 

3aul  Y.  Chan,  '63 

William  P.  Morrison,  '63 

3undalik  U.  Prabhu,  '63 

:rancis  E.  Spring,  Jr.,  '63 
I  Dr.  Paul  G.  Amazeen,  '64 
I  kanley  J.  Andrysiak,  '64 
'  Bernard  Baron,  '64 

<rishnakumar  V.  Chaudhary,  '64 

\lan  K.  Cooper,  '64 

Victor  A.  Dushku,  '64 

Robert  A.  Frenette,  '64 

George  E.  Hammond,  '64 

^eter  C.  Trombi,  '64 

ohn  T.  Apostolos,  '65 

Hajkumar  K.  Bajaj,  '65 

Vlichael  W.  Boyd,  '65 

Dr.  Jerry  C.  Chen,  '65 

\rthur  M.  Dickey,  '65 

Vlahesh  S.  Dixet,  '65 

tt.  Robert  B.  Edwards,  '65 

\ntanas  S.  Liutkus,  '65 

5unil  M.  Mehta,  '65 

fenkatesh  B.  N.  Rao,  '65 

William  L.  Rosen,  '65 

Ceorge  L.  Rosquet,  '65 

Dennis  J.  Simanaitis,  '65 

Mi  H.  Ustay,  '65 

Dilip  V.  Vora,  '65 

Walter  C.  Baker,  '66 

Kenneth  M.  Bell,  '66 

Robert  G.  Bertrand,  '66 

Satish  H.  Bhatt,  '66 

David  M.  Burwen,  '66 
.  ^ary  P.  Cassery,  '66 

Dmer  M.  Cavusoglu,  '66 

Shailesh  V.  Dave,  '66 

iharad  B.  Doshi,  '66 

Paul  F.  Flaherty,  '66 

Paul  F.  Glodis,  '66 

Roberto  Huyke-Luigi,  '66 

Stephen  K.  Kaiser,  '66 

Ahmet  G.  Kozanoglu,  '66 

David  Longmuir,  '66 

Gerald  W.  Lucas,  '66 

Ahmet  Mavitan,  '66 

Errold  F.  Moody,  Jr.,  '66 

Chester  J.  Patch,  III,  '66 

Edgar  P.  Rundlett,  Jr.,  '66 

Ramanik  N.  Savla,  '66 

Subhashchandra  N.  Amin,  '67 

James  R.  Braithwaite,  '67 

Athanassios  H.  Canatsoulis,  '67 

Fernando  Castillo,  '67 

Mahendra  K.  Dave,  '67 

Lt.  Wallace  P.  Fini,  '67 

Rein  C.  Freeberg,  '67 

Philip  R.  Gaudet,  Jr.,  '67 

John  P.  Keir,  '67 

Mitchell  P.  Koziol,  '67 

Leonard  J.  Lamberti,  '67 
j  Stephen  R.  Luber,  '67 

Mohmedjarid  M.  Malek,  '67 

David  R.  Malley,  '67 

Denis  F.  McQuillen,  '67 

Paul  J.  Milne,  '67 
'  Ajit  M.  Mody,  '67 


Rajendra  M.  Pandya,  '67 
Mafatbhai  N.  Patel,  '67 
Herbert  S.  Riddle,  Jr.,  '67 
2/Lt.  Richard  A.  Shaw,  '67 
Vishram  S.  Shinde,  '67 
Niranjan  N.  Shridharani,  '67 
Nelson  F.  Thune,  '67 
Frederick  M.  Turcotte,  '67 
Mulraj  K.  Vasa,  '67 
Capt.  John  A.  Caprio,  '68 
Robert  A.  Cherry,  '68 
Lt.  Robert  J.  Ellis,  '68 
Thomas  E.  Fitzpatrick,  '68 
Capt.  John  Richard  Hilyard,  '68 
Gerald  G.  Junevicus,  '68 
Rafik  E.  Kathiwalla,  '68 
Robert  A.  Lowell,  '68 
Sudhir  M.  Mody,  '68 
William  C.  Morse,  '68 
Bhikhabhai  M.  Patel,  '68 
Purushottambhi  U.  Patel,  '68 
Fritz  Peter,  '68 
Hereesh  S.  Shah,  '68 
Dwight  G.  Shepard,  '68 
Malay  C.  Sheth,  '68 
Donald  R.  Shurtleff,  '68 
Jas  P.  Singh,  '68 
Robert  L.  Smith,  '68 
Lt.  Lee  J.  Solaroli,  '68 
Robert  J.  Strople,  '68 
Gurol  M.  Talgar,  '68 
Huseini  T.  Tambawala,  '68 
Sumermal  M.  Vardhan,  '68 
Anthony  J.  Baglini,  '69 
Dr.  William  G.  Clark,  '69 
Steven  H.  Leece,  '69 
Christopher  J.  Masklee,  '69 
Henry  E.  McGuire,  Jr.,  '69 
Bhikhubhai  M.  Mistry,  '69 
Dennis  J.  Murphy,  '69 
Harivadan  R.  Parikh,  '69 
Harshad  K.  Patel,  '69 
Rambhai  J.  Patel,  '69 
Alfred  F.  Perfone,  Jr.,  '69 
Ronald  P.  Rosadini,  '69 
2/Lt.  Earl  M.  Spinks,  '69 
Mohammad  Vakilian,  '69 
David  M.  Alden,  '70 
David  D.  Andre,  '70 
Muammer  Arikan,  '70 
David  B.  Armitage,  '70 
Bernard  J.  Belouin,  '70 
John  F.  Campanella,  '70 
Demetrios  H.  Canatsoulis,  '70 
George  P.  Caplette,  '70 
Donald  C.  Connelly,  '70 
Jagdish  C.  Gupta,  '70 
Andrew  Ann-Shong  Huang,  '70 
Steven  A.  Lacaire,  '70 
Cyril  D.  Musson,  '70 
Dennis  L.  Novak,  '70 
Praful  V.  Palan,  '70 
Girish  Tribhuvandas  Patel,  '70 
Mahendra  K.  Patel,  '70 
Rameshchanora  N.  Patel,  '70 
Arnon  Rieger,  '70 
Harkant  J.  Shah,  '70 
Jen  An  Su,  '70 
Krishna  S.  Tahilani,  '70 
George  R.  Zinser,  III,  '70 
David  J.  Asquith,  '71 


Jeof hey  N.  Berg,  '71 
Sharadchandra  M.  Dave,  '71 
Richard  J.  Gioiosa,  '71 
Robert  P.  Hart,  '71 
Michael  J.  Kajen,  '71 
ChulKim,  '71 
Joseph  C.  Landwehr,  '71 
Bruce  E.  Leffingwell,  '71 
Peter  J.  Markunas,  '71 
John  G.  Parillo,  '71 
JayantiR.  Patel,  '71 
Mahendrakumar  K.  Patel,  '71 
JohnR.  Pratt, '71 
Kenneth  A.  Roberts,  '71 
Timothy  M.  Rooney,  '71 
Anthony  J.  Ruscito,  '71 
Donald  B.  Seaton,  71 
PaulR.  Smith, '71 
Francis  Soares,  '71 
John  F.  Sperandio,  '71 
Prakashchand  B.  Surana,  '71 
David  A.  Bailey,  '72 
Ju  Hak  Bong,  '72 
Thomas  G.  Burns,  '72 
Stephen  C.  Chapdelaine,  '72 
Ramjibhai  Chaudhari,  '72 
Nader  Family,  '72 
James  Gordon  Graham,  '72 
Chandrakant  H.  Kansagra,  '72 
Bradshaw  B.  Lupton,  Jr.,  '72 
Anil  N.  Modi,  '72 
Mahendrakumar  Ashab  Patel,  '72 
Sudhir  P.  Patel,  '72 
Alain  Roux,  '72 
Thiva  Thanasuen,  '72 
Prakash  Bhagwandas  Virani,  '72 
Subhash  R.  Vohra,  '72 


G.  Kasmarski  Chester  Jr.,  '73 
Michael  Rice  Ay  1  ward,  '73 
Paul  M.  Bazinet,  '73 
Edward  Berman,  '73 
Vithal  Kanji  Bhimani,  '73 
David  S.  Bo  wen,  '73 
Joyce  L.  Caplovich,  '73 
Bok  Nam  Chung,  '73 
Lester  E.  Couture,  '73 
Patrick  S.  Daly,  '73 
Ronald  P.  DeFalco,  '73 
Satish  P.  Karnik,  '73 
Miguel  Orszag,  '73 
Kiritkumar  D.  Patel,  '73 
Naresh  K.  Patel,  '73 
Francis  J.  Sheehan,  Jr.,  '73 
Sammy  G.  Shina,  '73 
Roberto  Slimak,  '73 
Chung- Chien  Chang,  '74 
Suman  Chamanlal  Choksi,  '74 
Per  Arthur  Damslet,  '74 
Robert  Omer  Dupuis,  '74 
Ibrahim  Mohammed  Jamal,  '74 
Bruce  Russell  Lyon,  '74 
Hirant  R.  Rakijian,  '74 
Houchangue  Toubian,  '74 
Hooshang  Azma,  '75 
Nader  G.  Ettehadieh,  '75 
Ahmad  Jelvehgaram-Isfahani,  '75 
Mohsen  Kavehrad,  '75 
Michael  G.  Patsouris,  '75 
Narendra  R.  Vira,  '75 
Gunvant  G.  Bhakta,  '75 
Esmail  Nafari,  '76 
Jalaldin  Ghaemaghami,  '76 
Charles  Vincent  Bohling,  '76 


COLLEGE 


COMMI6&IOI 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/29 


1969 

James  Alford  is  a  partner  in  Salem's  Motorcy- 
cles, Inc.,  Phoenix,  Arizona.  .  .  .  Alan  Chamber- 
lain works  as  a  senior  engineer  for  Raytheon  Co. 
in  Sudbury,  Mass. .  . .  Presently  Bruce  Green  is 
associated  with  King  Bearing,  Inc.,  in  West 
Sacramento,  Calif. . . .  John  Payne  is  a  consulting 
engineer  at  Mueser  Rutledge,  Wentworth,  & 

Johnston  in  New  York  City John  Poblocki 

serves  as  redevelopment  director  for  the  Re- 
development Agency  of  Woonsocket,  R.I. . . . 
Alfred  Prentice,  SIM,  retired  chief  estimator  for 
Morgan  Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  is  cur- 
rently residing  in  Clearwater  Beach,  Fla.,  with 

his  wife,  Phyllis Robert  Seldon  is  an  attorney 

for  GTE  in  Waltham,  Mass. 


1970 

Andrew  Donaldson  holds  the  post  of  mechan- 
ical supervising  engineer  at  Burns  &  Roe,  Inc., 
Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .    Rep.  David  Emery, 
Republican  congressman  representing  the  First 
District  in  Maine,  was  the  principal  speaker  at 
the  Greater  Bridgeport  (Conn.)  Lincoln  Day 
dinner.  Re-elected  to  his  second  term  in  Con- 
gress in  November,  he  is  a  member  of  the 
Committee  on  Merchant  Marine  and  Fisheries 
and  the  Committee  on  Armed  Services.  He  is 
also  a  fellow  at  the  John  F.  Kennedy  Institute  of 
Politics.  .      George  Iszlai  serves  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard, 
Mass. 
Currently  Robert  Kenney,  MNS,  is  a  math 

instructor  at  Keene(N.H.)  High  School Kent 

Lawson  is  now  a  senior  quality  engineer  in  the 
camera  division  of  Polaroid  Corp.,  Norwood, 
Mass.  .      Richard  Rock  has  received  his  MBA  in 
finance  from  Temple  University.  He  is  employed 
by  United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Philadel- 
phia. .      Robert  Soffel  recently  earned  his  MBA 
from  Baldwin-Wallace  College  in  Berea,  Ohio. 

Michael  Trotta  works  for  P.  Gioioso  &  Sons, 
Inc.,  Hyde  Park,  Mass. .      John  K.  C.  Yen  has 
been  named  town  engineer  in  Franklin,  Mass. 
His  duties  will  consist  of  setting  up  a  town 
engineering  department  consisting  of  an  assis- 
tant engineer,  a  part-time  clerk  and  engineering 
co-op  students.  He  will  also  be  responsible  for 
the  department  budget  and  be  involved  in  all 
phases  of  engineering  in  the  town.  Yen,  a 
professional  registered  civil  engineer,  was  pre- 
viously self-employed  in  Cambridge,  his  spe- 
cialties including  utility,  soil,  and  roadways  en- 
gineering. He  was  formerly  with  Geolabs  of 
Westlake  Village,  Calif  He  belongs  to  the  Soci- 
ety of  Civil  Engineers. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street.  Worcester,   Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


iamesbury 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  ©Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere®  Butterfly  Valves 

Actuators 

Control  Devices 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


70  presses,  capacities  of  10  to  545  tons. 
•  Quality  control  conforms  to  Mil.  Spec. 
Mil-  Q  -  9858A. 
•  Controlled  atmosphere 

annealing  furnace. 
•   Complete  engineering 
and  tool  room  depart- 
ments. 

Send  for  facilities  brochure 
or  call  (617)  366-4472. 


• 


arlstrom 


PRESSED  METAL  CO..  INC/55  FISHER  ST.,  WESTB0R0.  MA  01581 


30    April  1977    WPI  Journal 


1971 

,  irlton  Cruff  is  a  manufacturing  research  and 
i,  welopment  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
j  aft,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Arthur  Jackman 
'  is  received  his  master's  of  mathematics  for 
achers  degree  from  the  University  of  Lowell, 
is  article,  "Metric  Conversion  of  School 
i  lops"  appeared  in  the  November  issue  of  the 
.  verican  Vocational  Journal.  He  was  recently 
'  varded  a  grant  by  the  Northeastern  States 
ietric  Education  Consortium  to  prepare  a  plan 
'  r  conversion  to  the  metric  system  in  regional 
Kational  high  schools  in  the  nine  northeastern 
ates.  The  Jackmans  have  two  children,  Ken- 

;th  4,  and  Melissa,  1 Capt.  John  Johnson  is 

i rrently  d irector  of  electromyograph  ic  stud ies 
U.S.  Army  Aeromedical  Research  Lab.  in  Fort 
jcker,  Alabama. . .  .  John  Landall  has  received 
i  Outstanding  Performance  Award  from  the 
.  -my  Corps  of  Engineers  in  New  England.  A 
oject  manager  in  the  regulatory  branch  at 
,  'altham,  Mass.,  he  developed  a  computer- 
icrofilm  management  system  which  will  in- 
ease  efficiency  and  provide  reliable  action  in 
solving  violations  of  Corps  Regulatory  Laws. 
.  Larry  Lyman  works  as  a  technical  director  of 

spiratory  therapy  at  Nyack  (N.Y.)  Hospital 

eorge  Nisotel  is  a  management  sciences 
lalyst  at  Gillette  Co.  in  Boston. . . .  Bay  State 
brasives  in  Westboro,  Mass.  has  promoted 
ichard  Pelletier,  SIM,  to  manager  of  operations 
i  the  Industrial  Products  Section.  After  joining 
le  firm  in  1 965  he  became  manager  of  market 
;velopment,  a  post  which  he  held  until  his 
cent  promotion.  He  graduated  from  Boston 
niversity's  School  of  Public  Relations  and 
/Pi's  School  of  Industrial  Management. 

II972 

•  Married:  David  B.  Vine  and  Miss  Margot  M. 
\cNamara  were  married  recently  in  Worcester. 
ie  bride  graduated  from  Fitchburg  State  Col- 

.  ge  and  was  a  special  education  teacher  in 
helmsford.  Her  husband  is  a  geotechnical  en- 
neer  in  Newark. 

William  O'Rourke  has  been  elected  president 
f  the  Rhode  Island  Chapter  of  the  Illuminating 
igineering  Society  of  North  America.  He  is  vice 
resident  of  James  J.  O'Rourke,  Inc.,  an  electri- 
il  contracting  firm. . . .  Steve  Wilkinson  has 
>ined  Procter  and  Gamble  as  lab  manager  at  the 
ringles  manufacturing  plant.  He  and  his  wife, 
mma,  from  Mexico  City,  reside  in  Greenville, 
i.C.  In  October  he  completed  a  four-year  term 
s  an  army  engineer  officer  at  Fort  Bragg. 

1973 

-Married:  Lt.  David  C.  Bedard,  U.S.A.,  to  Miss 
an  ice  M.  Vitulli  on  January  22, 1977  in  Provi- 
lence,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Bedard  is  a  graduate 
)f  Manhattanville  College.  Her  husband  is 

tationed  at  Fort  Bliss,  El  Paso,  Texas Paul  A. 

Christian  and  Miss  LaimaT.  Pauliukonis,  '77,  in 
Worcester  on  January  8, 1977.  The  bride  plans 
:o  attend  Stanford  (Calif.)  University  for 
graduate  study  in  chemistry.  Her  husband  is  a 
doctoral  candidate  in  chemistry  at  Stanford.  . .  . 
Stephen  F.  Dowling  and  Miss  Michele  A.  Quinn 
■n  Fairfield,  Maine  on  January  22,  1977.  Mrs. 
Dowling  graduated  from  Andrew  Warde  High 
School  and  serves  as  a  sales  service  coordinator 
for  the  Stauffer  Chemical  Co.  of  Westport.  Her 
nusband  is  a  sales  engineer  for  the  Nash  En- 
gineering Co. 


Edward  Dykstra  is  director-corporate  MIS  at 
American  Optical  Corp.,  Southbridge,  Mass. . . . 
Joel  Loitherstein  works  for  the  state  of  New 
Hampshire  in  Concord  as  a  consulting  sanitary 
engineer.  . .  .  John  Ogorzalek  is  staff  manager 
for  John  Hancock  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Norwich, 
Conn Stephen  Slavick  works  as  a  transporta- 
tion analyst  for  the  New  York  State  Department 

of  Transportation Russell  Smith,  Jr.  has  been 

appointed  assistant  project  engineer  in  the  en- 
gineering department  of  Texon,  Inc.,  South 
Hadley,  Mass. .  .  .  Robert  Torbin  seves  as  a 
hydraulic  engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster  in 
Boston. 

1974 

Subhash  Bajaj  is  a  plant  metallurgist  at  GE  in 
Everett,  Mass. .  .  .  Chester  Kokoszka  has  been 
promoted  to  associate  engineer  in  the  System 
Planning  Department  of  Northeast  Utilities  in 
Berlin,  Conn.  He  began  work  at  Northeast  in 
1974  as  an  assistant  engineer.  He  belongs  to 
IEEE  and  the  Power  Engineering  Society. .  .  . 
Dennis  Mailloux  serves  as  an  associate  scientist 
at  Polaroid  Corporation,  Cambridge,  Mass. . .  . 
Stephen  Page,  a  senior  at  Stetson  University 
College  of  Law  in  St.  Petersburg,  Fla.,  has  been 
named  to  the  current  Who's  Who  Among  Stu- 
dents in  American  Universities  and  Colleges. 
Among  his  other  Stetson  honors  are  Outstand- 
ing Participant  in  Freshman  Moot  Court  Com- 
petition; American  Jurisprudence  Award  for 
Corporations;  Dana  Scholar;  and  election  to  the 
editorial  board  of  Stetson  Law  Review.  . . .  Peter 
Tunnicliffe  is  now  a  construction  coordinating 
engineer  at  Camp  Dresser  &McKee,  Boston. . . . 
Stanley  Wood,  Jr.  is  a  junior  engineer  with  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Public  Works, 
Boston. 

1975 

>Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  H.  Kingsbury 
their  first  child,  a  daughter,  Elana  Marie,  on 
September8, 1976.  Dave  is  with  Monsanto  in 
Havre  de  Grace,  Maryland. 

Andrew  Armstrong  is  a  graduate  student  at 
New  England  College  of  Optometry  in  Boston. . . 
.  Clifford  Ashton  has  joined  GE's  Electric  Boat 
Division  in  Groton,  Conn. . . .  Vitty  Ciras  is  with 
the  U.S.  Army  Research  &  Development  Com- 
mand in  Natick,  Mass.  . .  .  John  Gabranski  is 
currently  on  an  educational  leave  of  absence 
from  American  Can  Co.,  attending  Columbia 

University  on  the  Harry  S.  Batten  Fellowship 

Robert  Granger  wrote  "On  the  Allocation  of 
Capacity  Costs"  which  appeared  in  the  De- 
cember issue  of  Public  Utilities  Fortnightly.  At 
Chas.  T.  Main,  Boston,  Granger  has  been  re- 
sponsible for  the  preparation  of  comprehensive 
cost  allocation  studies  for  large  electric  utility 
systems.  He  has  specialized  in  computer  applica- 
tions, including  both  digital  and  analogue  com- 
putation, involving  development  of  problem- 
solving  techniques.  He  belongs  to  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers  and  AICE. 

Glenn  Guaraldi  serves  as  a  mechan  ical  design 
engineer  at  Harris  Corporation  in  Pawcatuck, 
Conn.  The  Guaraldis,  who  reside  in  Westerly, 
R.I.,  have  a  son,  Christopher,  2. .  .  .  Robert 
Hickey  is  with  Systems  Architects,  Inc.,  Ar- 
lington, Va Richard  Newhouse  is  a  construc- 
tion engineer  at  Raymond  International,  Inc., 
Norcross,  Ga.  .  .  .  William  Oehler  has  been 
appointed  a  product  specialist  in  the  Engineered 
Products  Group  of  Rogers  Corporation  in  Wil- 
limantic,  Conn.  He  will  be  responsible  for  several 


major  computer  manufacturing  customers  for 
Rogers-R-lon  drive  belts  and  rollers,  in  addition 
to  helping  develop  new  business  for  the  com- 
pany in  various  types  of  polymeric  parts. . . . 
Christine  Powers  recently  accepted  a  position  as 
process  engineer  for  Armour-Dial,  Inc.,  in  Au- 
rora, Illinois. . . .  Jeffrey  Setlin  is  employed  as  a 
project  manager  at  Keene  Corp.,  East  Provi- 
dence, R.I. .  .  .  Wayne  Stratton  is  with  Penril 
Corp.,  Rockville,  Md.  . .  .  Mikey  Jan-Tai  Yang 
works  as  a  system  programmer  for  the  Eye 
Research  Institute  of  the  Retina  Foundation  in 
Boston. 


1976 

^■Married:  Marc  F.  Mahoney  of  Hooksett,  New 
Hampshire  to  Miss  Joan  L.  Bobin  on  October  8, 
1 976.  Mrs.  Mahoney  graduated  from  Worcester 
State  College.  Her  husband  works  for  Public 
Service  Co.  of  New  Hampshire  in  Manchester. 

Stephen  Anstey  is  with  GE  Ordnance  Systems 
in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Currently  William  Baker 
serves  as  a  captain  in  the  U.S.  Army.  ...  In 
January  Alan  Briggs  was  reassigned  to  E.I.  Du- 
Pont's  Elastomers  Division  and  is  presently 
working  as  a  maintenance  engineer  at  their 
Pontchartrain  works  plant  in  La  Place,  Louisiana, 
about  twenty  m  iles  from  New  Orleans. . . .  Bruce 
Dalrymple  is  doing  graduate  work  at  Yale  Uni- 
versity's School  of  Applied  Science. . .  .  Mark 
Deutsch  works  as  a  programmer  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Mark  Ducharme  serves  as  a 
scientific  programmer  at  Acushnet  Company  in 
New  Bedford,  Mass. .  . .  Bruce  Haffty,  who  is  a 
supervisor  in  the  cardiology  division  at  St.  Vin- 
cent Hospital,  Worcester,  also  performs  with  the 
Caravan  Orchestra,  a  Middle  East  group.  Be- 
sides working,  and  becoming  known  as  a  first 
class  Middle  East-oriental  musician,  Haffty  is 
studying  for  his  doctorate  at  WPI. 

Edwin  Knight  has  joined  Union  Twist  Drill  in 
Athol,  Mass.  .  .  .  Paul  Lessard  is  a  civil  engineer 
for  the  federal  government  in  Atlanta,  Ga.  . . . 
Mulongo  Masangu  works  for  Consolidated 
Aluminum  Co.,  Lake  Charles,  Louisiana. . . . 
Robert  Milk,  Jr.,  who  works  for  Electronic  Data 
System  as  a  computer  system  engineer,  is  lo- 
cated in  Harrisburg,  Pa. .  . .  R.  Kenneth  Reece  is 
in  the  department  of  physics  at  Texas  A  &  M 
University  in  College  Station,  Texas. .  .  .  Steven 
Schoen  is  an  actuarial  trainee  for  Sun  Life  of 
Canada  in  Wellesley  Hills,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kenneth 
Scott  has  joined  the  Hydrospace  Systems  Divi- 
sion of  States  Marine  Corp.  He  is  located  in  New 
London,  Conn. .  . .  Gerard  Trottier,  Jr.  has 
accepted  the  post  of  quality  control  engineer  at 
Norton  Co.  in  Worcester.  .  . .  Mark  Waddell 
works  as  a  design  engineer  at  Valve  Engineering 
in  Alexandria,  Va. .  . .  William  Wood  is  consult- 
ing engineer  for  Hoyle,  Tanner  and  Associates  in 
Manchester,  N.H. . . . 


WPI  Journal /April  1977/31 


Claude  K.  Scheifley,  professor  emeritus  and 
former  head  of  the  history  and  modern  language 
department  at  WPI,  died  in  Worcester  on  Feb- 
ruary 16,  1977.  He  was  70  years  old. 

Prof.  Scheifley  was  born  in  Tamaqua,  Pa.  He 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania 
and  taught  at  WPI  from  1928  until  1933.  After 
teaching  at  Miami  University,  Oxford,  Ohio, 
from  1934  to  1937,  he  returned  to  WPI,  where 
he  remained  until  his  retirement  in  1971 . 

He  received  his  master's  degree  from  Cornell 
University  and  did  postgraduate  work  at  the 
University  of  Chicago  and  Upsala  College. 

For  twenty  years  he  assisted  in  the  direction  of 
the  fraternity  system  at  WPI  and  was  associated 
with  Techniquest,  which  he  directed  from  1955 
to  1961 .  He  received  the  trustees'  award  for 
outstanding  teaching  in  1963.  In  1972  he  was 
named  professor  emeritus. 

He  belonged  to  Trinity  Lutheran  Church, 
Skull,  the  Shakespeare  Club,  and  the  Bohemians. 
For  many  years  he  served  on  the  board  of 
trustees  of  Upsala  College 

Joseph  W.  Berger,  '03,  died  in  Akron,  Ohio  on 
February  25,  1977.  He  was  97. 

A  native  of  Webster,  Mass,  he  was  born  on 
April  24,  1879.  After  graduating  from  WPI,  he 
joined  Ingersoll  Rand  Co.  Later  he  was  with 
International  Steam  Pump  Co.,  Ralph  B.  Carter 
Co.,  Fairbanks  Morse  Co.,  The  Superheater  Co., 
and  the  Green  Fuel  Economizer  Co.,  Inc. 

Mr  Berger  belonged  to  ASME.  He  was  a 
professional  engineer  in  New  York  State. 

Nathan  C.  Rockwood,  '07,  of  Peotone,  Illinois 
died  on  November  27,  1976 

He  was  born  on  September  9,  1884  in 
Marlboro,  Mass  In  1907  he  received  his  BSCE 
from  WPI  After  working  a  year  for  the  U.S. 
Geodetic  Survey,  he  became  associate  editor  of 
Engineering  News-Record  in  New  York  City. 
From  1917  until  1956  he  was  editor,  vice  presi- 
dent, then  president  of  Tradepress  Publishing 
Corp  .  Chicago 

Mr  Rockwood  was  an  honorary  life  member 
of  the  National  Lime  Association,  honorary  di- 
rector of  the  National  Sand  and  Gravel  Associa- 
tion, and  the  National  Ready-Mixed  Concrete 
Association  He  belonged  to  the  Chicago  En- 
gineers' Club  and  the  Masons 


Royal  W.  Davenport,  08,  tor46  years  a  hydrau- 
lic engineer  with  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey, 
died  at  his  summer  home  in  Stone  Harbor,  New 
Jersey  on  December  18,1 976.  He  was  91 . 

A  native  of  Colrain,  Mass.,  he  graduated  as  a 
civil  engineerfrom  WPI.  He  was  an  instructorat 
WPI  for  two  years.  From  1910  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1956,  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey  of  The  Dept.  of  Interior. 

Before  World  War  I  he  was  active  in  steam 
gauging  in  the  Pacific  Northwest  and  Alaska.  He 
investigated  water  power,  irrigation,  and  indus- 
trial water  use  in  various  parts  of  the  U.S.  Later 
he  worked  with  the  International  Joint  Commis- 
sion in  conducting  studies  of  streams  along  the 
U.S. -Canadian  border.  The  Dept.  of  the  Interior 
gave  him  its  Distinguished  Service  Award. 

Mr.  Davenport  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  ASCE,  and  Kiwanis  International.  He 
was  a  former  vice  president  of  the  Washington 
D.C.,  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Clarence  A.  Brock,  '13,  passed  away  at  his  home 
in  Lighthouse  Point,  Florida  on  December  12, 
1976. 

He  was  born  on  August  4,  1 891  in  Ouray, 
Colo,  and  received  his  BSME  in  1913.  He  had 
been  associated  with  Express  Copper  Mines, 
U.S.  Reclamation  Service,  Detroit  Steel  Prod- 
ucts, F.M.C.,  Newcombe  Separator,  and  Rexair 
Division  of  Ward  Industries  Corp.  During  World 
War  I  and  II  he  served  in  the  Army  Quartermas- 
ter Corps. 

Mr.  Brock  belonged  to  ASME,  SAME,  Sigma 
Xi,  and  DES.  He  was  a  50-year  member  of  the 
Masons. 

Edmund  K.  Brown  '13,  an  early  developer  of 
submarine  storage  batteries,  died  at  his  home  in 
Torrington,  Connecticut  on  January  7,  1977  at 
the  age  of  85. 

A  native  of  Taunton,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on 
October  3,  1891 .  After  graduating  with  a  BS  in 
mechanical  engineering,  he  became  an  instruc- 
tor at  WPI  for  two  years.  From  1 91 5  to  1 920  he 
was  with  the  Lake  Torpedo  Boat  Co.  in 
Bridgeport,  Conn.,  where  at  the  request  of 
President  Wilson,  and  against  his  own  wishes, 
he  was  deferred  from  Army  service  to  aid  in  the 
development  of  submarine  batteries. 

In  1 920  he  joined  the  Torrington  Company. 
He  organized  the  firm's  research  engineering 
department  and  invented  the  "drawn-cup  nee- 
dle bearing"  that  has  been  the  mainstay  of  the 
bearings  division.  Ultimately  he  held  fourteen 
patents  relative  to  the  manufacture  of  bearings. 
In  1959  he  retired  as  director  of  research,  but 
remained  as  a  consultant  to  Torrington  until 
1968. 

Mr.  Brown  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi, 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  and  ASME.  He  had  served  as 
directorof  the  Stanley  P.  Rockwell  Co.,  Hartford, 
and  as  an  incorporator  of  Hungerford  Hospital. 

Frederic  R.  Cox,  '15,  of  Vincentown,  New  Jersey 
passed  away  on  September  14,  1976 

He  was  born  on  January  9,  1893  in  Melrose, 
Mass.  In  1915  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI.  He  was  with  J.S.  Bache  &  Co.,  prior  to 
forming  Frederic  R.  Cox,  Investment  Securities, 
New  Haven,  Conn.  He  was  a  captain  of  morale 
and  recreation  officer  for  harbor  defenses  at 
Portsmouth,  N.H.  in  World  War  II. 


Arthur  C.  Bird,  17,  of  South  Yarmouth,  Mas- 
sachusetts died  on  November  21,  1976  in 
Ridgewood,  New  Jersey. 

A  native  of  Passaic,  N.J.,  he  was  born  there  on 
February  19, 1896.  After  receiving  his  BSEE  from 
WPI,  he  worked  for  Public  Service  Electric  Co.  of 
New  Jersey.  He  then  joined  Hardy  S.  Ferguson  & 
Co.,  became  a  partner  in  Roderick  O'Donoghue 
&  Co.,  and  worked  as  a  consultant  for  Lockwood 
Greene  Engineering  from  1962  to  1965. 

Mr.  Bird  belonged  to  ATO,  AIEE,  and  TAPPI. 

Clinton  S.  Darling,  '17,  died  on  January  14, 
1977  in  Santa  Barbara,  California. 

He  was  born  on  July  25,  1895  in  Windsor,  Vt. 
In  1917  he  received  his  civil  engineering  degree 
from  WPI.  From  1936  to  1960  he  was  with  the 
National  Automatic  Merchandising  Associa- 
tion, which  he  served  as  executive  director  and 
adviser,  and  the  National  Automatic  Laundry 
and  Cleaning  Council,  where  he  was  an  execu- 
tive director  and  consultant.  He  was  also  manag- 
ing editor  of  Factory  and  western  manager  of 
the  Pennsylvania  Crusher  Co. 

Prior  to  his  final  retirement,  he  was  a  part- 
time  U.S.  representative  for  SAFAA,  Paris,  the 
oldest  and  largest  vending  company  in  France. 
He  belonged  to  ATO,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Skull,  and  the 
University  Clubs  in  Chicago  and  Washington, 
D.C  During  World  War  I  he  was  a  captain  with 
the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  He  was  a  past 
president  of  the  Chicago  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

William  C.  Thurston, '17,  of  Clearwater,  Florida 
passed  away  on  December  7,  1 976. 

He  was  a  retired  maintenance  supervisor  for 
Bell  Telephone  in  Philadelphia.  While  studying 
at  WPI,  he  was  a  member  of  SAE. 

Roger  B.  Chaffee,  '19,  a  resident  of  Oxford, 
Massachusetts,  died  on  December  24,  1976. 

He  was  born  on  June  7,  1895  in  Oxford  and 
later  studied  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
From  1919  through  1960  he  served  as  vice 
president  of  Chaffee  Brothers  Co. 

Mr.  Chaffee  belonged  to  the  Masons,  the 
American  Legion,  and  SAE.  He  was  the  fatherof 
Warren  H.  Chaffee,  '43. 

Robert  C.  Sessions,  '19,  a  retired  consulting 
engineer  and  a  resident  of  Lakewood,  Ohio, 
died  on  January  14,  1977. 

During  his  lifetime  he  had  been  with  NASA  as 
assistant  to  the  director  of  the  Lewis  Research 
Center  and  with  the  National  Advisory  Commit- 
tee for  Aeronautics;  Brown  Fintube  Co.;  Ses- 
sions &  Sessions,  Consulting  Engineers;  and 
Steel  &  Tube,  Inc.  From  1920  to  1926  he  worked 
for  his  father,  the  latefranA:  L.  Sessions,  '89  as  a 
consulting  engineer,  later  becoming  a  partner  in 
the  firm. 

Mr.  Sessions,  who  was  also  a  patent  attorney, 
was  born  on  June  18,  1897  in  Fort  Wayne, 
Indiana.  In  1919  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 
He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  and  Skull.  A  fellow  of  the  American 
Scandinavian  Foundation  in  Hydro-electric  En- 
gineering in  Sweden,  he  also  was  a  member  of 
ASME,  IEEE,  IAS,  Cleveland  Engineering  Society 
and  the  National  Society  of  Professional  En- 
gineers. He  was  past  president  of  the  Lakewpod 
Civic  Association  and  of  the  Cleveland  Chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association,  and  brother  of  Paul 
Sessions,  '21. 


32    April  1977    WPI  Journal 


rnest  P.  Williams  22,  of  West  Hartford,  Con- 
ecticut  died  in  Hartford  Hospital  on  January 
1,1977. 

For42  years  he  worked  for  Bell  Laboratories  as 
mechanical  and  electrical  engineer.  He  retired 
11966. 

Mr.  Williams,  who  was  born  on  March  20, 
901 ,  in  Manchester  Conn.,  belonged  to  SAE 
nd  Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  was  an  Army  veteran  of 
Vorld  War  I. 

hilip  W.  Linnell,  '23,  of  Storrs,  Connecticut 
assed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  April  14,  1900  in  North  Adams, 
Aass.  In  1923,  after  studying  as  a  chemist,  he 
)ined  the  Fuller  Brush  Co.,  where  he  remained 
ntil  1946.  Later  he  was  with  the  Stanley  Home 
roducts  Co.  He  belonged  to  SAE. 

.erald  M.  McMahon,  '24,  retired  quality  con- 
ol  engineer  for  Uniroyal  Corp.,  died  February 
,  1977  at  his  home  in  Springfield,  Mas- 
achusetts.  He  was  75  years  old. 

He  worked  at  Uniroyal  in  Chicopee  for  36 
ears.  Previously  he  had  worked  for  U.S.  Rubber 
nd  Fisk  Rubber  Co. 

Mr.  McMahon  graduated  from  WPI  as  a 
nemist  in  1 926.  He  belonged  to  the  Forest  Park 
idden  Age  Club. 

vin  S.  Webster,  '26,  died  in  Holyoke,  Mas- 
achusetts  in  January.  He  was  73  years  old. 

After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
rom  WPI,  he  was  employed  by  the  Public 
ervice  Electric  and  Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey  for 
early  fifty  years.  A  licensed  professional  en- 
ineer,  he  retired  three  years  ago  as  a  develop- 
nent  engineer  at  the  company. 

Mr.  Webster  belonged  to  ATO,  Sigma  Xi, 
kull,  and  the  American  Society  for  Testing 
Petals.  Active  in  the  American  Gas  Association 
s  a  chairman  of  several  committees,  he  re- 
eived  an  AGA  Merit  Award  and  in  1 968  was 
iven  the  association's  Distribution  Achieve- 
lent  Award.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Gotham 
igure  Skating  Club  of  New  York,  a  50-year 
Aason,  and  a  former  vice  president  of  the 
Jorthern  New  Jersey  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
vssociation. 

rnest  P.  Wood,  '26,  of  St.  Petersburg,  Florida, 
etired  vice  president  and  chief  engineer  for 
idewater  Construction  Corp.,  died  on  May  20, 
976. 

He  was  born  on  November  12,  1903  in  Al- 
oona,  Pa.  and  later  studied  electrical  engineer- 
ngatWPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  associated 
vith  Slaughter,  Saville,  &  Blackburn,  Inc.; 
Ibasco  Services;  Stevens  &  Wood;  Sverdrup  & 
'arcel;  Den-Rado  Products;  and  J.  F.  White 
Engineering  Corp.  After  retirement,  he  was  an 
engineering  consultant  in  St.  Petersburg. 

Mr.  Wood  belonged  to  ASME  and  Ph  i  Gamma 
Delta.  From  1942  to  1945  he  was  a  turret  officer 
with  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve. 


Harold  P.  Richmond,  '29,  of  Durham,  North 
Carolina,  the  retired  president  and  founder  of 
Associated  Energy  Systems,  died  on  January  7, 
1977. 

He  was  born  on  March  10,  1907  in 
Bridgeport,  Conn.  In  1929  he  received  his  BSEE. 
He  also  studied  at  Columbia  University,  North 
Carolina  State  College,  and  Duke  University. 

During  his  lifetime  he  was  with  Consolidated 
Edison  Co.;  Eastern  New  Jersey  Power  Co.;  and 
Jersey  Central  Power  &  Light,  where  he  became 
general  superintendent  of  operations  for  the 
entire  company.  He  also  was  associated  with 
Allis-Chalmers,  City  Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey, 
Millville  (NJ)  Utilities,  Public  Service  Co.  of 
North  Carolina,  and  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.  In 
1963  he  formed  his  own  company,  Associated 
Energy  Systems  of  Madison,  N.J. 

Mr.  Richmond,  who  was  listed  in  the  1959 
issue  of  Who's  Who  in  Engineering,  belonged  to 
AIEE,  ASME,  AGA,  the  Philadelphia  Engineers 
Club,  and  the  Durham  Engineers  Club.  He  was  a 
professional  engineer  in  New  Jersey  and  North 
Carolina. 

Carl  G.  Nordmark,  '30,  of  Hoquiam, 
Wash  ington  d  ied  on  October  21,1 976. 

A  native  of  Providence,  R.I.,  he  was  born  on 
March  14, 1908.  He  received  his  BSME  in  1930. 
He  had  been  associated  with  Matthews  Mfg. 
Co.,  and  the  L.S.  Starrett  Co.,  from  which  he 
retired  as  advertising  and  sales  promotion  man- 
ager. 

He  was  a  member  of  S  igma  Xi,  ASME,  and  the 
Association  of  Industrial  Advertisers. 

Carl  L.  Johnson,  '33,  a  resident  of  Danville, 
Pennsylvania,  passed  away  on  December  8, 
1976. 

A  native  of  Millbury,  Mass.,  he  was  born  there 
on  January  31 ,  1909.  For  many  years  he  was 
with  DuPont,  where  he  served  as  head  of  the 
analytical  section  at  the  firm's  eastern  laboratory 
in  Gibbstown,  N.J. 

Mr.  Johnson,  who  received  his  bachelor  of 
science  degree  in  chemistry,  belonged  to  Sigma 
Phi  Epsilon,  and  the  American  Chemical  Society. 

H.  Victor  Stenbeck,  '34,  died  suddenly  of  heart 
failure  in  Scituate,  Massachusetts  on  January  21 , 
1977.  He  was  64. 

The  co-owner  of  Stenbeck  &  Taylor,  Inc., 
Engineers,  Marshfield,  Mass.,  he  was  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  and  land  surveyor. 

He  was  born  on  February  20, 1 91 2  in  Scituate. 
In  1934  he  earned  his  BSCE  at  WPI.  He  had 
worked  previously  for  W.G.  Ford,  C.E.  of  Marsh- 
field.  From  1942  to  1945  he  was  with  the  U.S. 
Navy  Bureau  of  Aeronautics. 


Edward  E.  Hayden,  '35,  passed  away  in 
Stoughton,  Massachusetts  on  January  9, 1977  at 
the  age  of  63.  He  apparently  died  of  a  heart 
attack  after  shoveling  snow. 

He  was  born  on  November  17, 1913  in  Far- 
mington,  Me.  After  graduating  as  a  civil  en- 
gineer, he  was  with  U.S.  Naval  Ordnance.  He 
then  became  inspector  for  the  engineering  de- 
partment in  Panama,  Canal  Zone.  Later  he  was 
with  Foundation  Co.  in  Costa  Rica.  At  his  death 
he  was  chief  architectural  engineer  for  E.  J.  Cross 
Company,  Worcester.  He  was  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer. 

Mr.  Hayden  belonged  to  the  Massachusetts 
Construction  Industry  Board,  the  National  Arch- 
ery Association,  and  the  Massachusetts  Ar- 
chaeological Society.  He  was  past  president  of 
the  Massachusetts  Archery  Association  and 
served  as  organist  at  St.  Michael's  Church. 

William  A.  Patterson,  Jr.,  '40,  of  Worcesterdied 
on  February  12,  1977. 

He  was  born  on  October  9,1917  in  Worcester 
and  later  studied  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI.  Since  1940  he  had  been  with  Heald  Ma- 
chine, where  he  was  manager  of  office  services. 

Mr.  Patterson  belonged  to  ATO  and  the  Ma- 
sons. He  was  the  charter  president  of  the 
Worcester  Young  Businessman's  Association, 
past  monarch  of  Aletheia  Grotto,  and  first  vice 
president  of  the  Worcester  Commercial  Travel- 
lers Association. 

Leroy  A.  Knapp,  '54,  who  retired  three  years  ago 
as  a  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Air  Force  Reserve 
following  30  years  of  service,  died  at  his  home  in 
Worcester  on  January  5, 1977.  He  was  56  years 
old. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  later  stud  ied  at 
Mount  Union  College,  Alliance,  Ohio,  and  at 
WPI.  An  electro-mechanical  design  engineer,  he 
retired  as  senior  design  engineer  at  Machinery 
Electrification  Co.,  Northboro,  in  1971.  During 
World  War  II  he  was  a  test  pilot  for  the  Air  Force 
and  officer  in  charge  of  engineering  mainte- 
nance. Before  the  war  he  worked  in  the  advertis- 
ing department  of  the  Worcester  Telegram  and 
Gazette. 

Mr.  Knapp  was  on  the  board  of  directors  of 
the  Worcester  County  Music  Association  and 
sang  many  years  with  the  Worcester  Chorus.  He 
had  sung  with  the  Detroit  Symphony  Orchestra 
at  Carnegie  Hall  and  with  Eugene  Ormandy  and 
the  Philadelphia  Orchestra  in  Washington,  D.C. 

He  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason  and  a  member 
of  Aleppo  Temple,  Boston.  Aseniorpilot,  he  was 
communications  and  squad  commander  for  the 
Fitchburg  Air  Force  Reserve  Squadron. 


John  A.  H.  Crosier,  '27,  died  in  Easton,  Mary- 
land on  January  12, 1977. 

Born  on  April  30,  1905  in  Northampton, 
Mass.,  he  later  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI,  where  he  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  and  Skull. 

During  his  career  he  was  associated  with  the 
purchasing  departments  at  Day  &  Zimmermann, 
Inc.,  Philadelphia,  and  Stone  &  Webster,  Inc., 
Boston.  He  was  an  officer  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Signal  Corp  in  World  War  II  and  belonged  to  the 
Masons  and  the  Episcopal  Church. 


Leading  the  way  in  metalworking 
technology  in  the  Western  Hemisphere  with 
he  most  complete  range  of  facilities 

in  the  forging  industry  -thars  |/i  rJ  lflfYMAN 

GORDON 


ks 


EH 


nyflrffji  sSI 


>mmmm 


