GEORGE  C.  GORDON  LIBRARY 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  INSTITUTE 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


AUGUST  1983 


PLACEB 


OS  X 


^ 


^ 


m  : 


<     .  • 


WPI  Journal 

'  WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  87,  NUMBER  1 


Staff  of  The  WPI  Journal 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sam- 
uel W.  Mencow,  '37;  Roger  W.  Miles,  '69; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associ- 
ation by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  co- 
operation with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium, with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hop- 
kins University,  Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages 
I-XVI  are  published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium  (Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Hartwick  College,  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute)  and  appear  in  the  re- 
spective alumni  magazines  of  those  institu- 
tions. Second  class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
MA,  and  additional  mailing  offices.  Pages  1- 
12,  29-40  ©  1983,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute. Pages  I-XVI  ©  1983,  Johns  Hopkins 
University. 

Staff  of  the   Alumni   Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Elise  Hancock;  Business  Manager, 
Robert  Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams-Hauck;  Managing  Editor,  Mary  Ruth 
Yoe;  Designer,  Allen  Carroll;  Magazine  Fel- 
low, Pat  Rushin;  Senior  Writer,  Robert  Kanigel; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Edward  C.  Ernst. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Con- 
sortium: Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Ger- 
ald Eckert  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
»e,  Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.  J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Kenneth  L. 
McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  Foto- 
Typesetters,  Inc.;  Printing,  John  D.  Lucas 
Printing  Company;  Mailing,  Circular  Adver- 
tising Company. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors 
or  official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  corre- 
spondence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


AUGUST  1983 


CONTENTS 


4  Reunion  '83  Revisited 

A  close  look  at  a  record-breaking  weekend 
in  June — when  even  the  weather  cooperated. 

7  WPI  Women:  Different?  Maybe. 
Making  a  Difference?  Yes! 

Women  are  making  great  strides  in  engineering 
and  science.  An  alumna  and  several  students 
offer  their  perspectives  on  this  healthy  trend. 
Judith  Nitsch,  '75  CE 

I  Industry:  New  Face  on  Campus 
Industry  needs  academic  know-how, 
academe  needs  industrial  support. 
What  are  the  costs  ? 
Elise  Hancock 

X  How  many  rations  make  a  decoration? 

The  answer,  with  other  bits  of  knowledge, 
is  found  in  an  eccentric  conversion  table. 
Solomon  W.  Golomb 

XII  The  Placebo  Effect 

Sugar  pills,  injections  of  salt  solution — 
placebos  should  have  no  medical  effect. 
But  often  they  do. 
Robert  Kanigel 

29  Alumni  Profiles:  Steve  Donahue,  '29 

After  45  years  at  the  helm  of  WPFs 
news  bureau,  this  veteran  Worcester 
newsman  retires — for  the  third  time. 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 

Class  Notes        30 

Completed  Careers        39 

Regional  Club  Contacts        Inside  back  cover 


Page  4 


k 


Page  7 


Page  X 


f 


Page  29 


Cover  illustration  by  Jeff  Goodby.  Opposite:  Reunion  balloons. 
Photo  by  Marvin  Richmond. 


AUGUST  1983 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


The  Plan  Gets 
Faculty  Endorsement 

Following  extensive,  point-by-point  dis- 
cussion over  a  year-long  period,  the  WPI 
faculty  has  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to 
the  WPI  Plan,  the  project-  and  compe- 
tency-based undergraduate  academic 
program  instituted  in  1970. 

William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  Dean  of  Un- 
dergraduate Studies,  says  that  the  early 
May  endorsement,  coming  after  some  37 
meetings  of  the  Committee  on  Academic 
Policy  (CAP)  and  several  faculty  and  pub- 
lic forums,  is  especially  meaningful.  For 
of  the  current  185  voting  professors,  more 
than  120  joined  the  faculty  after  1970,  and 
a  majority  came  as  the  result  of  growth 
of  the  college  rather  than  through  attri- 
tion. 

Just  as  important,  says  Grogan,  the  re- 
ratified  Plan  incorporates  essentially  the 
same  educational  priorities  put  into  effect 
in  1970,  including  the  school's  unique  em- 
phasis on  the  human  side  of  technological 
education.  Specifically,  the  Plan  empha- 
sizes two  professional-level  project  and 
research  activities,  flexible  curricula,  con- 
centrated study  in  the  humanities,  devel- 
opment of  personal  initiative  and  lead- 
ership skills,  as  well  as  extensive  practice 
in  written  and  oral  communication.  Fi- 
nally, through  a  senior  year  competency 
examination,  or  "comp,"  the  Plan  tests 
students'  ability  in  their  major  field  of 
study. 

According  to  Grogan,  the  comp  has  long 
been  perhaps  the  most  controversial  thread 
of  the  overall  fabric  of  the  Plan.  A  num- 
ber of  faculty  and  students,  he  says,  feel 
the  comp  has  grown  into  "an  excessively 
dominant  force  in  the  academic,  profes- 
sional and  personal  lives  of  many  stu- 
dents." This  concern,  he  says,  led  to  long 
and  passionate  discussion  in  the  past  year's 
CAP  and  faculty  meetings.  In  the  final 
vote,  however,  proposals  for  replace- 
ments for  the  comp,  such  as  an  integrative 
senior  seminar,  were  turned  down,  keep- 
ing the  competency  exam  concept  in  place. 


President  Edmund  T.  Cranch  (I.)  and  Robert  F.  Reeves,  Vice  President  for  Student 
Affairs,  outline  campus  plan  recommendations  at  Spring  Alumni  Council  Meeting. 


But  Grogan  sees  the  comp  as  an  on- 
going source  of  significant  campus-wide 
concern,  one  which  warrants  a  continual 
dialogue  among  faculty,  students  and  ad- 
ministrators. 

Similarly,  a  great  deal  of  campus  dis- 
cussion has  focused  on  the  academic 
standards  imposed  by  the  Accreditation 
Board  for  Engineering  and  Technology 
(ABET),  the  key  accrediting  agency  of 
U.S.  engineering  colleges.  Specifically,  a 
recent  ABET  study  of  the  Plan  voiced 
concern  over  the  amount  of  work  in  the 
basic  sciences  required  under  the  Plan  for 
the  bachelor's  degree  in  the  various  fields 
of  engineering.  (ABET  does  not  accredit 
science  and  mathematics  programs.) 

In  responding  to  the  ABET  guidelines, 
the  faculty  approved  broad  area  distri- 
bution requirements,  not  to  exceed  10  of 
the  16  units  of  study  possible  in  a  four- 


year  program.  Each  department  may  for- 
mulate its  own  specific  unit  and  distri- 
bution requirements  by  areas,  rather  than 
by  specific  courses,  subject  to  faculty  ap- 
proval. 

For  example,  in  chemical  engineering 
the  faculty  has  approved  a  minimum  10 
units  (including  the  project  in  the  major 
field)  as  follows:  IVi  in  mathematics,  1% 
in  basic  science,  5  in  engineering  science 
and  design  and  1%  in  advanced  chemistry. 

In  essence,  then,  the  concepts  under- 
lying the  Plan  have  merited  the  resound- 
ing approval  of  today's  faculty,  more  than 
half  of  whom  had  not  been  part  of  the 
original  discussions  on  this  approach  to 
scientific  and  engineering  education. 
What's  more,  the  mechanics  of  the  pro- 
gram will  remain  intact,  pending  future 
ABET  review  as  well  as  ongoing  discus- 
sion among  the  WPI  community.  In  Gro- 


2        WPI  JOURNAL 


gan's  view,  this  dialogue  is  a  "healthy, 
essential  element  of  the  evolution  and  re- 
finement of  the  WPI  Plan." 

Campus  Blueprint 
Stresses  Student  Life 

Recent  capital  projects  at  WPI — like  the 
renovations  of  Atwater  Kent  Laborato- 
ries, Salisbury  Labs  and  Washburn  Build- 
ing— have  addressed  the  need  to  maintain 
and  enhance  the  school's  academic  integ- 
rity. Now  that  these  programs  are  com- 
pleted or  well  under  way,  what's  next? 

Chief  targets  of  capital  projects  in  the 
near  future,  says  a  Boston  architectural 
and  planning  firm,  should  be  the  several 
elements  of  campus  life — residential,  rec- 
reational and  social  space,  as  well  as  prac- 
tical matters  like  parking  and  physical  plant 
services. 

Earlier  this  year,  after  an  eight-month 
study  of  the  WPI  campus,  including  fre- 
quent consultation  with  administrative, 
faculty  and  student  committees.  Earl  R. 
Flansburgh  &  Associates,  Inc.,  presented 
a  view  of  a  revitalized  campus — one  that 
can  more  readily  accommodate  the  needs 
of  WPI's  3,500  students,  as  well  as  its  fac- 
ulty, staff  and  visitors. 

According  to  Robert  F.  Reeves,  Vice 
President  for  Student  Affairs,  who  headed 
the  WPI  planning  team,  as  WPI's  enroll- 
ment has  grown,  campus  housing  has  be- 
come increasingly  inadequate.  Today, 
there  are  on-campus  accommodations  for 
just  900,  supplemented  by  fraternity 
housing  for  500.  Thus,  there  can  be  tre- 
mendous pressure  on  students  to  locate 
lodgings  in  apartments  or  houses  near 
campus.  Added  to  this,  Reeves  says,  the 
national  trend  toward  greater  on-campus 
living  makes  future  housing  and  dining 
facilities  the  school's  primary  capital  im- 
provement need. 

Beyond  lodging  and  dining  accommo- 
dations, Flansburgh  established  the  fol- 
lowing possible  responses  to  guide  WPI's 
growth  into  the  1990s: 

Upgrading  of  Morgan  and  Daniels  Halls. 
Greater  space  for  lounges,  kitchenettes 
and  study  rooms;  carpeting;  better  light- 
ing; new,  movable  furniture. 

Renovation  and  upgrading  of  athletic 
fields.  Presently  inadequate  for  the  vastly 
increased  demand  for  year-round  recre- 
ation facilities  and  varsity,  club  and  in- 
tramural sports.  Improvements  include 
reorganization  of  soccer  and  baseball  fields; 
installation  of  an  all-weather  track  and 
football  field;  better  lighting;  additional 
tennis  courts. 


New  central  services  facility.  Now  frag- 
mented in  location,  the  various  functions 
that  maintain  the  physical  plant  should  be 
consolidated  near  the  nonresidential,  non- 
academic  edge  of  campus. 

New  campus  center.  A  major  compo- 
nent of  quality  student  life.  Proposed  is  a 
new  building,  centrally  located  and  con- 
taining student  services,  book  store,  mail 
office,  snack  bar,  game  rooms,  etc.,  as 
well  as  much-needed  conference  and 
project  rooms. 

Second  new  dormitory. 

New  and  relocated  parking.  To  meet 
current  demand  and  projected  needs  cre- 


ated by  new  dormitory  and  campus  cen- 
ter. 

Renovation  of  the  Quadrangle.  To  com- 
plete the  greening  of  the  campus  (a  proj- 
ect that  began  a  decade  ago)  and  to  rein- 
state the  campus's  original  beauty. 

While  these  proposals  will  receive  fur- 
ther WPI  analysis  of  their  financial  fea- 
sibility and  compatibility  with  the  long- 
term  mission  of  the  school,  they  are  de- 
signed, says  the  Flansburgh  report,  to 
"maintain  the  desired,  established  rela- 
tionship of  campus  life,  while  suggesting 
modifications  that  will  enhance  the  insti- 
tution and  its  learning  experience." 


WPI  Takes  Four  More  CASE  Awards 


Pictured  at  the  construction  site  of  the 
current  Washburn  Shops  renovation  are 
members  of  the  WPI  University  Relations 
staff  whose  superior  performance  in  the 
field  of  institutional  advancement  has 
won  nationwide  recognition  through  the 
Council  for  the  Advancement  and  Sup- 
port of  Education  (CASE).  They  are  (from 
left  to  right):  Deborah  A.  Scott,  Assistant 
Alumni  Director;  Charlotte  M.  Wharton, 
Graphic  Designer;  Roger  N.  Perry,  Di- 
rector of  Public  Relations;  Lois  S.  Mur- 
ray, Director  of  Planned  Giving;  Sharon 
C.  Davis,  Managing  Director  of  the 
Alumni  Fund;  Denise  R.  Rodino,  De- 
velopment Officer;  and  Stephen  J.  He- 
bert.  Alumni  Director.  Absent  from  the 


photo  is  Thomas  J.  Denney,  former  Vice 
President  for  University  Relations,  who 
in  June  became  Vice  Chancellor  for  De- 
velopment and  Alumni  Affairs  at  Wash- 
ington University,  St.  Louis. 

WPI  was  honored  recently  with  CASE 
awards  for  exceptional  achievement  in  the 
following  areas:  Improvement  in  Finan- 
cial Support,  Direct  Mail  for  Financial 
Support,  Matching  Gift  Programs,  and 
Special  Events,  the  latter  a  public  exhibit 
for  the  Robert  Goddard  Centennial  Cel- 
ebration, entered  jointly  with  Clark  Uni- 
versity. Our  hats  are  off  to  these  folks — 
and  to  our  alumni,  whose  support  of  WPI 
programs  continues  to  receive  such  highly 
acclaimed  CASE  recognition! 


AUGUST  1983 


^m         Bill — 


The  Class  of  1933's  50th  Reunion 
Committee  (above)  consisted  of 
(from  left):  Thomas  E.  Decker, 
John  J.  Dwyer,  Edwin  L.  John- 
son, Robert  E.  Ferguson,  R.  Nor- 
man Clark,  Warren  C.  Saltmarsh, 
Allen  L.  Brownlee  and  George 
W.  Lyman. 


Pictured  above  are  four  1983 
alumni  award  recipients.  In  the 
front  row  (from  left):  Dr.  George 
A.  Cowan,  '41,  winner  of  the 
Robert  H.  Goddard  A  ward  for 
outstanding  professional  achieve- 
ment. Alumni  President  Peter  H. 
Horstmann,  '55  and  Goddard 
winner  S.  Bailey  Norton,  '43. 
Back  row  (from  left):  WP1  Presi- 
dent Edmund  T  Cranch,  God- 
dard winner  Earl  G.  Page,  '43 
and  Edwin  C.  Campbell,  '43, 
winner  of  the  Herbert  F.  Taylor 
Award  for  service  to  WPI.  Danc- 
ing at  right  are  Dr.  Edward  H. 
Peterson,  '43  and  his  wife,  Bev. 


WPI   JOURNAL 


■^H??t!SSi?B!? 


The  1983  General  Reunion 
Luncheon  (left)  at  Harrington 
Auditorium.  Dr.  David  S.  Crim- 
mins,  '58  (below)  announces  his 
class's  25th-reunion  gift  of 
$147,291.  The  Classes  of  '43  and 
'33  made  gifts  of  $67,496  and 
$104,939  respectively. 


Two  generations  of  service  (left): 
Gregory  W.  Backs trom,  '70,  win- 
ner of  the  John  Boynton  A  ward 
for  outstanding  service  by  a 
young  alumnus  to  WPI,  and  his 
dad,  Carl,  '30,  past  recipient  of 
the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  award  for 
distinguished  service  to  WPI.  Be- 
low: the  25th-reunion  class  of 
1958.  Right:  outgoing  Alumni  As- 
sociation President  Peter  H. 
Horstmann,  '55  (center)  and  his 
wife,  Barbara,  receive  thanks 
from  his  successor,  Harry  W. 
Tenney,  Jr.,  '56. 


If  you  were  on  the  Hill  in  June 
for  Reunion  '83,  you'll  recall  a 
weekend  full  of  the  events  pic- 
tured here — get-togethers  to 
renew  friendships,  tours  and 
mini-courses  to  provide  a  close 
look  at  campus  changes  and  di- 
rections for  the  next  decade, 
moments  to  reflect  on  your 
years  at  WPI  and  times  since. 
Alumni  families  returned  in 
record  numbers;  leadership  of 
the  Alumni  Association  passed 
from  Pete  Horstmann,  '55,  to 
Harry  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56;  and  the 
weather  cooperated  for  all  but 
Saturday  morning. 


AUGUST  1983        5 


Five  members  of  the  Class  of 
1958  (right)  are  (from  left):  Rob- 
ert J.  Boyea,  Stanley  W.  Grave- 
line,  Peter  Ottowitz,  Robert  S. 
Jenkins    and  Howard  O.  Painter, 
Jr.  Far  right:  Accepting  the  Class 
of  1917  attendance  trophy  from 
Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer 
Stephen  J.  Hebert,   66  (right)  is 
George  W.  Lyman,  '33.  Fifty-three 
percent  of  his  class  attended 
reunion.  Below:  The  40th-reunion 
class  of  1943. 


^    ft  *  *  %  -0  Am  «*  ms  W1%~ok~  r  a 

8 

7 

'IPS*          rlf        91 

f  " 

1    ^     1       .*    i  Til     EH     1 

1 

At  right  is  the  50th-reunion  class 

of  1933.  Below  right  are  three 

members  of  the  Class  of  1938 

(from  left):  Richard  F.  Burke, 

Jr..  Albert  J.  Kullas  and  Leo  J. 

Cronin.  Below  left:  1963 's  Class 

President.  William  C.  Zinno 

(right),  still  can't  figure  out  his 

Reunion  Chairman's  (Alfred  A. 

Molinari,  Jr.)  Clambake  act. 


<; '  n  '-¥ 

Bildl^1 

if' gag 

r 

WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  Women: 
Different?  Maybe. 

Making  a  Difference?  Yes ! 


by  Judith  Nitsch,  75  CE 

WPI  women:  Are  we  normal? 
Normal  isn't  the  right  word. 
Perhaps  I  should  ask,  are  we 
different?  Different  from  what?  (or  whom?) 
one  then  asks.  Different  from  other  women, 
and  different  from  other  engineers  and 
scientists,  I  suppose. 

Let's  first  look  at  some  synonyms  for 
normal:  regular,  analogical,  ordinary, 
natural,  usual,  according  to  the  rule. 

How  about  different?  Distinct,  sepa- 
rate, other,  nonidentical,  not  the  same, 
unlike,  dissimilar,  various,  diverse,  con- 
trary, variant,  deviating,  divergent,  in- 
compatible, discrepant,  various,  hetero- 
geneous, perpendicular  (perpendicular?!). 
Everyone  I  know  would  fit  these  descrip- 
tions, except  maybe  the  last. 

We  are  normal.  Normal  engineers. 
Normal  women.  But  normal  woman  en- 
gineers? No,  no  two  are  alike,  but  we  are 
similar.  More  on  this  later. 

I  remember  saying,  as  I  set  foot  on  cam- 
pus as  a  freshman,  that  it  finally  felt  great 
not  to  be  "different"  and  to  be  accepted 
for  what  I  am.  I  was  first  in  my  high  school 


class,  and  in  high  school  the  "smart"  stu- 
dents were  always  outside  the  top  cliques. 
This  meant  a  lot  then.  I  think  I  missed 
out  on  some  of  the  fun  and  sometimes 
daring  things  my  schoolmates  did.  Maybe 
I  was  too  practical  then.  Anyway,  at  WPI 
I  was  like  all  the  others  in  terms  of  aca- 
demic achievement,  and  I  made  up  for 
some  of  the  lost  time  from  high  school. 
(As  a  freshman,  my  grades  showed  it,  but 
I  straightened  out  for  the  duration.) 

As  I  contemplated  writing  on  whether 
WPI  women  are  different  from  anyone 
else,  my  initial  reaction  to  this  question 


was,  "No,  we're  like  everyone  else."  But 
I  can't  now  say  that  with  conviction. 

Yes,  we're  certainly  women,  and,  yes, 
we  have  engineering/scientific  educa- 
tions. We  share  many  characteristics  with 
other  women  and  with  other  technical 
professionals.  But  unquestionably,  we  also 
have  our  differences.  We  are  conspicuous 
by  our  small  numbers  in  a  traditionally 
male-dominated  field.  And  our  choice  of 
career  fields  is  what  sets  us  distinctly  apart 
from  most  other  women. 

Now  this  element  of  separateness — from 
our  colleagues  and  other  women — is  not 
necessarily  all  bad.  But  frankly,  some- 
times it's  a  pain.  On  my  first  job  after 
college,  for  example,  I  had  no  one  to  lunch 


with.  The  surveyors  and  other  engineers 
(all  men)  ate  together,  and  management 
went  out  to  lunch  together,  so  I  brown- 
bagged  it  and  read  at  my  desk. 

A  couple  of  years  ago.  at  a  Society  of 
Women  Engineers  (SWE)  conference. 
"Betty  Vetter.  of  the  Scientific  Manpower 
Commission,  spoke  on  opportunities  for 
women  in  science  and  engineering.  She 
stated  the  case  succinctly:  "Women  will 
continue  to  work  for  equal  opportunity 
with  men  in  their  chosen  fields.  They  will 
know  they  have  reached  that  equality  when 
they  are  given  the  same  right  to  be  me- 
diocre and  still  advance  that  men  have." 

I  can  chuckle  at  such  an  idea,  but  I  don't 
believe  it  is  intended  as  a  criticism  of  men. 
When  women  engineers  are  considered 
by  their  male  counterparts  as  equal 
professionally,  much  of  the  pressure  on 
women  to  never  make  mistakes  will,  like 
magic,  vanish.  But  as  long  as  women  en- 
gineers remain  the  exception  rather  than 


the  rule,  the  pressures  and  the  differences 
between  the  sexes  will  continue.  A  chicken- 
and-egg  issue,  perhaps? 

We  employ  a  woman  co-op  student  from 
Wentworth  Institute  of  Technology  at  our 
office.  Unquestionably,  she  is  the  excep- 
tion to  the  stereotypical  woman  profes- 
sional. She  is  very  smart,  as  well  as  per- 
sonable, down-to-earth,  dedicated  and  a 
fun  person  to  be  around.  Frankly,  we 
would  love  to  have  a  few  more  engineers 
like  her  in  the  company — women  and  men! 
She  may  make  the  grade  steeper  for  fu- 
ture women  engineers,  however,  because 
she  is  typecast  as  "typical"  by  the  men  in 
the  office,  yet  by  widespread  standards 
she  is  the  exceptional  woman  and  the  ex- 
emplary engineer. 

According  to  John  P.  van  Alstyne. 
Dean  of  Academic  Advising  at 
k.WPI.  and  a  key  figure  in  an  in- 
formal support  structure  for  women  on 


campus,  WPI  women  are  becoming  more 
"normal"  with  every  class.  Ten  years  ago, 
when  the  classes  of  1973  to  1976  were  on 
campus,  the  women  in  these  classes  were 
disproportionately  grouped  in  the  top  third 
of  their  classes  academically.)  I  should  add 
that  these  classes  included  all  the  first 
women  graduates  of  WPI  except  Leslie 
Small  Zorabedian,  '72.  WPI's  first  female 
graduate.  In  the  class  of  1987,  women  will 
comprise  fully  20  percent  of  an  enrollment 
of  more  than  2,400.) 

Today,  women  are  spread  more  evenly 
throughout  their  classes  on  an  academic 
basis.  This  makes  life  for  women  at  WPI 
much  more  amicable  because  the  academ- 
ically average  women  do  not  experience 
such  intense  pressure  to  "keep  up"  with 
the  other,  more  gifted  or  more  ambitious 
women.  What's  more,  male  students  do 
not  seem  to  regard  the  women  as  "super- 
smart"  but  as  similar  to  themselves  aca- 
demically. (Incidentally.  Leslie  had  a  3.9 


"I  Wouldn't 
Want  to  be 
Hired  Simply 
Because  I'm 
a  Woman" 


Before  she  can  settle  into  a  consult- 
ing post  at  Boston's  Arthur  Ander- 
sen &  Company,  the  accounting  firm. 
Maureen  Sexton,  '83  CS.  has  a  few  de- 
tails to  work  out.  As  Peddler  editor,  she 
has  to  wrap  up  publication  of  this  year's 
edition — no  trivial  task.  Then  she's  off 
to  the  British  Isles  to  search  out  her 
Irish  heritage.  Finally,  later  this  sum- 
mer, she'll  begin  at  Andersen  as  a  com- 
puter systems  consultant. 

Consulting.  Maureen  says,  should  al- 
low her  to  experience  a  full  range  of 
problems  and  opportunities  for  applying 
computer  technology.  "And  since  I'll  be 
helping  organizations  use  the  computer 
as  a  tool.  I'll  be  right  where  I  want  to 
be — working  at  the  interface  of  people 
and  technology." 

Affirmative  action  quotas,  she  be- 
lieves, can  give  entry-level  women  an 
edge  over  the  competition,  "but  they 
aren't  a  sure  formula  for  success — for 


Maureen  Sexton,  '83:  she'll  be  helping  people  and  computers  get  along  better. 


either  the  individual  or  the  firm.  I'd 
hate  to  think  the  job  was  mine  for  rea- 
sons other  than  my  qualifications." 

Beyond  middle-level  management, 
however,  she  feels  that  promotions  for 
women  are  often  harder  to  come  by 
than  for  men  with  similar  credentials. 
But  the  fact  that  so  many  women  even- 
tually leave  the  job  force  for  their  fam- 
ily may  influence  their  firms'  promotion 
practices,  she  concedes. 

On  campus,  she  believes  the  tradi- 
tionally male-dominated  fields  like  engi- 
neering may  intimidate  women  students 
more  than  the  sciences  or  mathematics. 
Still,  she  savs.  as  more  women  become 


professionals,  "all  we  really  want  is  for 
our  performance  to  open  doors — as  it 
does  for  men — rather  than  having  doors 
opened  for  us  because  we  are  women." 

Maureen,  who  grew  up  in  East  Hart- 
ford, has  performed  rather  well  at  WPI. 
A  member  of  the  Skull,  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Upsilon  Pi  Epsilon,  the  computer 
science  honor  society,  she  points  to  the 
widening  achievements  of  women  at  the 
Institute — president  of  the  class  of  '83, 
feature  editor  of  Newspeak,  and  presi- 
dent of  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Not  bad.  you  might  say,  for  an  engi- 
neering school  which  first  admitted 
women  only  15  years  ago. 


8        WPI  JOURNAL 


average  and  was  first  in  her  class  at  WPI.) 

When  I  asked  Dean  van  A  if  he  thought 
WPI  women  were  different,  he  replied, 
"Most  definitely,  because  people  won't 
let  you  be  the  same  as  others,  and  that 
scares  me  for  a  couple  of  reasons."  First, 
a  big  problem  women  engineers  face,  he 
contends,  is  that  they  are  playing  a  role 
that  most  people  don't  expect  them  to 
play,  and  thus  it's  very  hard  for  others  to 
regard  them  as  normal — they  are  atypical 
of  women.  Second,  he  believes  that  peo- 
ple outside  the  professions  still  think 
women  only  get  ahead  by  the  "on-their- 
back"  means  or  because  they  are  a  "brain" 
and  therefore  a  social  misfit.  "They  won't 
let  women  engineers  be  real  people." 

He  goes  on,  "Women  are  the  only  'hu- 
man' engineers.  They  are  often  devoted 
to  their  company,  but  many  also  want  to 
have  a  family  and  don't  want  to  leave  their 
children.  It's  these  mixed  feelings  so  many 
women  seem  to  have  trouble  handling." 

In  1971,  he  recalls,  he  spoke  to  a  mem- 
ber of  the  50-year  reunion  class  who  was 
concerned  about  two  unmarried  female 
electrical  engineers  in  his  firm.  These 
women  were  first-rate  engineers,  the 
alumnus  reported;  they  had  an  innate  sense 
of  responsibility  to  get  the  job  done  right, 
and  they  usually  completed  projects  in  a 
shorter  amount  of  time  than  their  male 
colleagues.  At  5  p.m.  each  day  the  male 
engineers  would  go  home  to  their  fami- 
lies, but  the  women  engineers  would  lit- 
erally take  their  projects  home.  "They 
wanted  to  get  it  right,"  said  the  alumnus, 
who  worried  because  he  didn't  think  this 
situation  was  fair  to  these  women. 

At  the  April  1983  annual  conference 
co-sponsored  by  the  Boston  Section  SWE 
and  the  Association  of  Massachusetts  In- 
stitute of  Technology  (MIT)  Alumnae. 
Suzanne  Peck  of  Honeywell,  Inc.,  pre- 
faced her  remarks  by  asking  the  260  women 
present  to  raise  their  hands  if  they  were 
an  only  child  or  were  first-born.  An  as- 
tonishing number  of  hands — at  least  85 
percent — shot  up!  Ms.  Peck  was  not  sur- 
prised. She  said  that  we  as  women  went 
into  a  "different"  field  because  we  were 
accustomed  to  responsibility.  (In  theory, 
the  only  child  has  no  one  with  whom  to 
share  the  chores,  and  the  eldest  of  many 
families  is  "in  charge"  more  often  than 
not.  We  were  encouraged  to  seek  an- 
swers, a  key  element,  it  is  argued,  in  dis- 
couraging the  fear  of  making  mistakes  or 
of  being  different.) 

Furthermore,  we  expect  to  be  taken 
along.  (The  only  child  goes  everywhere 
with  her  parents  and  is  seldom  left  be- 
hind; when  the  only  child  becomes  the 


"Performance  Is  All  That 
Should  Really  Count" 


Bound  for  graduate  school  at  Iowa 
State  University,  Nancy  Fortier,  '83 
CH,  sees  no  reason  to  hesitate  as  she 
prepares  further  for  an  industrial  career 
in  chemistry. 

Nancy  was  the  1983  recipient  of  the 
American  Institute  of  Chemists  Award, 
given  at  commencement  to  the  out- 
standing senior  chemistry  student.  Her 
special  interest  in  high-performance  liq- 
uid chromatography  has  applications  in 
industry  (for  example,  identifying  and 
removing  radioactive  waste  from  water). 

"I've  never  perceived  any  resentment 
over  my  academic  success  by  the  male 
students  in  my  classes,"  she  said  re- 
cently. "And  I  don't  expect  sexual  harass- 
ment in  grad  school  or  industry."  The 
Hampden,  MA,  graduate  believes  that 
hard  work — not  affirmative-action 
measures — is  what  will  enable  her  to 
advance  in  a  field  that  is  attracting  more 


and  more  women.  In  fact,  she  says,  em- 
ployment quotas  for  women,  minorities 
and  the  handicapped  can  be  non-pro- 
ductive for  the  employer  if  such  guide- 
lines ignore  ability  to  perform. 

As  increasing  numbers  of  women  en- 
ter the  work  force,  especially  in  non- 
traditional  professions,  she  predicts  that 
their  male  colleagues  will  come  to  ac- 
cept women  as  "equal,"  though  for 
some  men  the  process  of  change  will  be 
more  painful  than  for  others.  She  ac- 
cepts things  as  they  are  and  intends  to 
encourage  other  women  who  may  ques- 
tion themselves  in  a  career. 

Right  now,  Nancy  hasn't  begun  to 
consider  the  family-career  decision,  but 
she  knows  that  someday  she'll  have  to 
face  it.  "A  family  and  children  are  al- 
ways in  the  back  of  my  mind,"  she 
adds,  "but  for  now,  grad  school  and  my 
career  are  most  important." 


elder  or  eldest,  she  is  still  the  first  to  ex- 
periment with  new  activities  and  ideas, 
unless  she  wants  to  be  outshone  by  her 
younger  siblings.)  In  short,  we  don't  shirk 
responsibility,  and  we  expect  to  get  it. 

In  discussing  this  concept  with  Paula 
Fragassi  Delaney,  76  BB,  we  realized  that 
most  of  our  women  classmates  fitted  this 
description,  or  else  they  were  from  a  very 
large  family.  (Paula  is  the  eldest  of  three 
daughters,  and  I  am  the  second  of  seven.) 
I  asked  Paula  if  she  thought  WPI  women 
differed  greatly  from  other  women  engi- 
neers and  scientists. 

"Yes,"  she  replied,  "simply  because  the 
sum  total  of  our  educational  experience 
is  different  from  the  traditional 
approach  to  education.  We  were 
learning  with  men, 


were  taught  by  men  and  were  trained  to 
be  problem  solvers  and  team  players.  In 
our  project  work  at  WPI,  we  developed 
topics  based  on  someone  else's  project, 
and  our  projects  in  turn  led  to  someone 
else's.  So  we  have  more  experience  on  a 
practical  level.  I  really  believe  our  edu- 
cation was  different." 


AUGUST  1983 


"Opportunities  For 
Women  Abound" 


When  Anne  Madara,  76  MA,  grad- 
uated from  WPI,  she  first  thought 
she  might  go  on  to  graduate  school.  In- 
stead, she  opted  for  "a  taste  of  the  real 
world,"  and  went  into  industry.  She 
hasn't  regretted  that  decision. 

Anne  joined  Polaroid  Corporation  as 
an  evaluation  (quality  control)  engineer 
in  the  firm's  New  Bedford,  MA,  plant. 
"I  really  enjoyed  the  job,"  she  says, 
"but  it  led  me  into  other  areas.  I  had  to 
interface  with  the  systems  department 
and  discovered  that  systems  was  a  ca- 
reer I  wanted  to  explore." 

Polaroid  is  an  open  company,  Anne 
reports.  Whenever  a  new  job  is  avail- 
able, anyone  may  apply  for  it,  and 
being  a  woman  may  be  an  advantage. 
Industry,  she  believes,  is  always  looking 
for  qualified  women  to  fill  key  posts. 

After  spending  two  years  in  systems, 


Anne  discovered  the  company  was 
looking  for  someone  to  run  a  data  pro- 
cessing training  program. 

"It  was  different  from  anything  I'd 
done  before,"  she  says.  "I  didn't  know 
exactly  what  I  was  getting  into,  but  I 
had  the  confidence  to  try.  WPI  had 
helped  instill  that  confidence  with  its 
project  requirements." 

Anne  has  encountered  little  sexual 
prejudice  in  industry.  Recently  she  was 
promoted  to  senior  systems  analyst  sup- 
porting Polaroid's  Technical  and  Indus- 
trial Photographic  division  in  Waltham. 
There,  Anne's  task  is  to  upgrade  inven- 
tory systems.  Last  summer  Polaroid  sent 
Anne  to  observe  systems  at  their  plant 
in  Scotland. 

And  for  the  future?  "I  may  still  go  on 
to  graduate  school,"  she  reveals.  "But  I 
don't  plan  to  give  up  my  job!" 


WPI's  mission,  she  said — to  address  both 
the  technical  and  humanistic  elements  of 
engineering  and  scientific  education — met 
her  career  and  personal  needs.  The  Plan, 
the  embodiment  of  this  mission,  "has 
helped  me  not  only  in  my  job  [Assistant 
Registrar  of  Nichols  College],  but  in 
everything  I  do.  I  know  enough  to  ask 
questions.  I  know  how  to  ask  the  right 
questions.  And  I  know  that  if  I  search 
long  enough,  I'll  find  the  answers.  I  use 
this  in  my  work  in  higher  education.  I 
understand  the  importance  of  how  the 
learning  experience  should  affect,  mold 
and  shape  one's  entire  life." 

Regarding  WPI  women,  continued 
Paula,  "We  were  better  able  to  handle 
different  things  than  other  women  in  our 
high  schools,  especially  the  academics. 
Before  WPI,  we  were  among  the  best  in 
our  high  schools.  At  WPI  we  were  sur- 
rounded by  classmates,  men  and  women, 
as  well  prepared  academically  as  we  were, 
and  therefore  we  didn't  feel  out  of  place. 
Now  that  we're  out,  we  seem  to  be  able 
to  solve  things  and  handle  problems  more 
easily.  Upon  reflection,  I  realize  how  spe- 
cial my  education  really  was." 

I  asked  a  colleague  of  mine,  Sarah  Si- 
mon (MIT,  72),  whether  as  women  en- 
gineers, we  are  different.  "At  the  risk  of 
sounding  boastful,"  she  said,  "I  think  we 
are  incredibly  self-motivated,  compared 
to  male  engineers.  We  had  a  sense  of  our- 


selves when  we  were  in  high  school  and 
a  sense  of  where  we  wanted  to  go,  es- 
pecially compared  to  other  engineers  and 
to  other  women." 

Women  starting  in  engineering  today, 
she  believes,  are  in  an  era  in  which  the 
doors  aren't  shut  as  tightly  as  they  once 
were.  "We  have  a  lot  more  going  for  us." 


Fifteen  years  ago,  she  went  on,  women 
had  to  ignore  the  inequalities  present  then 
in  order  to  become  engineers.  So  in  many 
ways,  they  felt  they  needed  to  be  better 
prepared  than  their  male  counterparts. 
Later,  women  found  it  easier  to  believe 
things  weren't  different.  "It's  not  as  dif- 
ficult now  for  women  to  become  engi- 
neers— and  to  be  average  engineers.  At 
least  that's  what  we  keep  hoping!!  Even 
though  we  are  all  individuals,  our  expe- 
riences are  not  really  that  different." 

Anni  Autio,  '82  CE,  added,  "Things 
are  more  relaxed  now  for  women  at  WPI. 
You  don't  have  to  be  super-intelligent." 

Differences  among  us  certainly  ex- 
ist by  virtue  of  our  individuality, 
but  are  we  the  same  in  any  way? 
Or  are  we  seen  through  undiscriminating 
eyes?  In  her  book,  Men  and  Women  of 
the  Corporation,  Rosabeth  Kanter  re- 
ports on  minority  (women,  blacks,  the 
handicapped,  etc.)  infiltration  into  groups. 
She  found  that  when  a  65:35  ratio  existed, 
a  critical  mass  had  been  reached;  the  ma- 
jority perceived  the  minority  members  as 
individuals,  and  the  minority  group  was 
simply  a  type  differentiated  from  the  ma- 
jority. However,  at  up  to  an  85:15  ratio, 
the  dominant  members  weren't  comfort- 
able and  the  minority  members  were  often 
treated  as  representatives  of  their  cate- 
gory and  as  symbols  rather  than  as  indi- 
viduals. 

She  wrote:  "The  life  of  women  in  the 
corporation  was  influenced  by  the  pro- 
portions in  which  they  found  themselves. 
Those  women  who  were  few  in  number 
among  male  peers  and  often  had  'only 
woman'  status  became  tokens:  symbols  of 
how-women-can-do,  stand-ins  for  all 
women.  Sometimes  they  had  the  advan- 


10        WPI  JOURNAL 


tages  of  those  who  are  "different"  and 
thus  were  highly  visible  in  a  system  where 
success  is  tied  to  becoming  known.  Some- 
times they  faced  the  loneliness  of  the  out- 
sider, of  the  stranger  who  intrudes  upon 
an  alien  culture  and  may  become  self-es- 
tranged in  the  process  of  assimilation.  In 
any  case,  their  turnover  and  'failure  rate' 
were  known  to  be  much  higher  than  those 
of  men  in  entry  and  early-grade  posi- 
tions." (p.  206) 

In  my  professional  experience,  it  seems 
that  men  seldom  are  aware  of  what  women 
as  the  minority  sex  in  most  business  en- 
vironments may  feel.  I  have  never  met 
another  woman  civil  engineer  in  a  profes- 
sional situation,  though  admittedly  civil  is 
probably  one  of  the  last  male  engineering 


strongholds.  The  only  other  woman  en- 
gineers I  have  met  are  WPI  friends  and 
colleagues  from  the  Society  of  Women 
Engineers. 

While  in  school,  I  worked  during  va- 
cations for  a  small  civil  engineering/land 
surveying  company.  Miraculously,  there 
was  one  other  woman  engineering  student 
at  the  firm  in  a  similar  capacity.  When  I 
began  my  current  job  we  employed  a 
woman  co-op  student,  but  I  have  never 
worked  in  an  office  with  another  full-time 
woman  engineer. 

The  numbers  are  startling.  At  May 
1983  Commencement,  73  women, 
or  18  percent,  were  among  the 
more  than  400  students  graduating  in  the 


class  of  1983.  Of  these  women,  50  (or  68 
percent)  graduated  with  civil,  electrical, 
mechanical  or  chemical  engineering  de- 
grees. My  1975  class  of  similar  size  grad- 
uated just  22  women,  8  of  us  (or  36  per- 
cent) in  engineering.  No  woman 
mechanical  engineers  graduated  that  year, 
but  ME,  with  20  women,  had  the  highest 
number  of  women  in  1983.  While  Ann 
McPartland  Dodd  was  the  only  woman, 
electrical  engineering  major  graduating  in 
1975,  there  were  17  in  1983. 

These  figures  confirm  one  of  Dean  van 
A's  observations  of  the  shifting  role  of 
women  at  WPI.  Women  in  the  early  classes 
were  mostly  math  and  science  majors  and 
normally  ranked  in  the  top  third  of  their 
class.  In  those  days,  the  smartest  women 


WPI  Women  In  Dual-Career  Marriages: 
Their  Roles  as  Wives  and  Professionals 


Beginning  in  pre-industrial,  agrarian 
America,  through  the  Industrial 
Revolution,  World  Wars  I  and  II,  the 
sedate  Fifties,  the  turbulent  Sixties  and 
Seventies,  and  into  the  Eighties,  the 
married  woman's  role  in  the  workplace 
has  been  a  roller-coaster  ride  of  unprec- 
edented scope.  In  their  recent  Interac- 
tive Qualifying  Project,  Daila  Blaus,  '84 
CM,  and  Michele  Bugbee,  '84  CM, 
traced  this  saga  and  surveyed  WPI 
women  graduates  involved  in  an  in- 
creasingly widespread  and  vital  phe- 
nomenon— the  dual-career  marriage. 

When  male  labor  was  scarce  (as  dur- 
ing war),  before  products  for  the  home 
were  factory-produced,  and  when  facto- 
ries have  needed  skilled  labor  to  mass- 
produce  a  host  of  traditionally  home- 
made products,  like  clothing  and  soaps, 
women's  labor  has  been  essential  to  the 
nation's  economy. 

But  when  women  returned  to  the 
home  to  manage  the  family  and  the 
household,  as  in  the  early  1900s  and 
later  in  the  postwar  Fifties,  their  pres- 
ence in  the  workplace  tended  to  take  on 
less  importance.  Yet  child-rearing  and 
managing  the  home  left  many  women 
deeply  bored  and  depressed  and  at  odds 
with  their  innate  need  for  self-realiza- 
tion and  identity. 

Today,  according  to  feminist  Susan 
Bolotin,  the  two  traditionally  prized  fe- 
male occupations — childbearing  and 
homemaking — are  no  longer  economi- 


cally valued.  For  most  women,  working 
outside  the  home  is  not  a  luxury,  but  a 
fact  of  life . 

In  their  study,  Daila  and  Michele  sur- 
veyed two  groups  of  WPI  women  grad- 
uates of  the  classes  of  1973  and  '74,  and 
1978  and  '79.  They  hypothesized  that 
the  older  group,  products  of  the  more 
radical  1960s,  would  prove  more  inde- 
pendent, choosing  to  share  traditional 
female  roles  with  their  husbands,  and 
juggling  child-rearing  and  career  devel- 
opment simultaneously.  The  team  be- 
lieved that  the  younger  group,  on  the 
other  hand,  products  of  the  less  activist 
early  Seventies,  would  exhibit  more 
family-oriented  preferences,  abandoning 
the  unfinished  campaign  of  the  women's 
movement  begun  more  than  a  decade 
earlier. 

The  results  of  their  study,  however, 
uncover  mixed  behaviors  in  both  groups 
and  point  to  the  difficulty  in  stereotyp- 
ing such  diverse  groups  of  women,  re- 
gardless of  their  ages. 

Women  in  each  group  felt  secure  in 
their  decision  to  either  remain  at  home 
with  their  family  or  continue  their 
professional  endeavors.  However,  group 
1  tended  to  remain  at  home,  while 
group  2,  the  younger  women,  were 
more  willing  to  seek  work  outside  the 
home.  At  the  same  time,  group  1  felt  a 
greater  need  to  care  for  the  home  and 
children  than  did  group  2,  who  were 
more  willing  to  continue  working  at 


least  part-time  while  letting  others  help 
care  for  their  children. 

Both  groups  expressed  a  firm  willing- 
ness to  sacrifice  free  time  to  spend  with 
their  husbands  and  children;  and  a  com- 
mon comment  was,  "Motherhood  is  the 
most  important  thing  in  my  life."  Fur- 
thermore, most  women  believed  their 
husbands  shared  their  commitment  to 
teamwork. 

In  planning  a  career,  both  groups 
tended  to  place  family  considerations 
above  their  professions. 

Perhaps  the  greatest  difference  be- 
tween the  groups  appeared  in  the  divi- 
sion of  household  labor  between  wife 
and  husband.  Husbands  in  group  2 
tended  to  take  on  more  household 
chores,  like  cleaning,  than  those  in 
group  1.  Still,  women  did  most  of  the 
cooking  in  both  groups. 

Partners  in  both  groups  seemed 
equally  committed  to  a  sharing  of  finan- 
cial responsibilities  and  family  emo- 
tional support.  The  belief  that  family 
bonds  strengthen  when  both  partners 
work  outside  the  home  was  common. 

Finally,  in  both  groups  women  re- 
ported experiencing  widespread  profes- 
sional discrimination — subtle  rather  than 
direct.  Men,  many  women  said,  are  re- 
spected and  promoted  much  more 
quickly  on  the  job  than  women.  Said 
one  respondent,  "For  women,  it  takes 
more  years  of  service  to  be  considered  a 
'company  man.'" 


AUGUST  1983 


11 


"For  Women,  The  Choices 
May  Be  Harder." 


ii    A  ctually,"  recalls  Leslie  Small 

XJLZorabedian,  72  MA,  "two  of 
us  entered  as  freshmen  that  first  year, 
1968.  But  since  she  dropped  out  and  I 
remained,  I  suppose  I  am  the  first 
woman  WPI  graduate." 

As  you  might  imagine,  a  folklore  has 
emerged  over  the  last  decade  around 
the  woman  who,  in  her  own  word, 
"crashed"  venerable  old,  all-male  WPI. 
Sorority  pledges,  for  example,  must  still 
know  her  name  as  part  of  their  rites  of 
initiation. 

Consider  her  times.  The  late  Sixties 
were  a  period  of  national  awakening  to 
events  and  values  previously  beyond  the 
realm  of  widespread  debate,  now  be- 
come issues  of  violent  protest,  largely  at 
campuses  across  the  country. 

Enter,  in  the  middle  of  all  this — an 
unpopular  war,  students'  rights  demon- 
strations, the  women's  movement,  the 
early  years  of  the  WPI  Plan — young 
Leslie  Small,  valedictorian  of  the  Spen- 
cer, MA,  high  school,  who'd  grown  up 
on  a  farm,  whose  dad,  before  he  died, 
often  said  how  nice  it'd  be  if  Leslie 
could  go  to  "Tech"  as  sons  Jim,  '70, 
and  Lester,  '67,  had.  One  gets  the  dis- 
tinct impression  that  in  entering  WPI  as 
its  first  woman,  hers  was  not  a  radical 
act.  "I  thought  WPI  was  the  best.  I  just 
wanted  an  excellent  education.  Ac- 
tually, I  was  asked  to  apply." 

Leslie  Small  left  her  mark  here,  not 
through  protest,  but  through  the  excel- 
lence of  her  work  and  her  positive  con- 


tribution to  campus  life.  She  served  Tau 
Beta  Pi  as  its  first  woman  president  and 
was  a  member  of  the  Skull. 

"That  first  semester  was  lonely,"  she 
recalls,  "mostly  because  I  commuted 
and  didn't  get  too  involved  socially." 
She  earned  straight  As  that  fall.  "I 
wanted  to  be  accepted  for  my  work,  not 
because  I'm  a  woman." 

It  was  during  class  elections  that  she 
met  Jack  Zorabedian,  '75,  a  candidate. 
They  married  several  years  later,  when 
they  were  both  on  sound  career  paths, 
he  at  General  Electric,  she  at  New 
York  Telephone  near  Albany. 

Leslie  and  Jack  didn't  escape  the 
pressures  of  a  dual-career  marriage. 
"Always  there  are  the  decisions  over 
jobs,  locations,  children,"  she  says, 
" — the  compromises  and  sacrifices  that 
each  of  us  have  to  make  to  make  the 
marriage  work."  Finally,  not  without 
hesitation,  she  postponed  a  very  prom- 
ising career  to  give  her  full  energies  to 
their  children. 

Today,  Cindy,  8,  John,  6,  and  Jeff,  3, 
are  the  loving  products  of  that  decision 
of  nearly  a  decade  ago.  "I  wouldn't 
have  missed  a  minute  of  my  children's 
babyhood." 

Presently,  Leslie  is  a  math  instructor 
at  North  Shore  Community  College.  At 
this  point  in  her  life,  she  is  eager  to  re- 
turn to  college  and  to  more  teaching,  a 
profession  that  she's  finding  increasingly 
rewarding — hoping  to  balance  her  needs 
for  career  and  family. 


in  a  high  school  would  be  encouraged  to 
come  to  schools  such  as  WPI  if  they  liked 
math  and  science. 

Women  in  more  recent  classes,  how- 
ever, have  been  predominantly  engineer- 
ing majors.  As  the  number  of  women  in 
engineering  and  technical  fields  has  in- 
creased, more  of  the  gifted  high  school 
women  have  become  interested  in  WPI. 

Presumably  early  women  students  didn't 
major  in  engineering  because,  like  me, 
they  had  little  idea  of  what  it  was.  Aware- 
ness of  the  engineering  fields  and  oppor- 
tunities available  has  increased;  hence  the 
swing  to  more  engineering  majors.  In  ear- 
lier classes,  women  were  strong  in  math 
and  science  but  thought  more  in  terms  of 
teaching  than  of  pursuing  industrial  ca- 
reers. Now  they  are  studying  engineering 
and  science  to  put  their  skills  and  interest 
to  practical  use. 

Consider  some  other  interesting  statis- 
tics: In  1952  0.2  percent  of  the  nation's 
BS  degrees  in  engineering  went  to  women; 
in  1975  as  a  group  we  received  2.3  per- 
cent. In  1979  the  figure  was  up  to  9  per- 
cent, and  in  1980  a  whopping  5,631  bach- 
elor's degrees  in  engineering,  or  9.7  percent 
of  the  total,  were  awarded  to  women. 

The  National  Science  Foundation  es- 
timates that  in  1978  21,700  (or  1.6  per- 
cent) of  the  nearly  1.4  million  U.S.  en- 
gineers were  women.  Today  that  figure  is 
close  to  4  percent.  In  1979,  14,000  fresh- 
man women  declared  engineering  as  their 
college  major.  That  year,  49,027  (or  12.3 
percent)  of  the  U.S.  college  engineering 
enrollment  were  women.  Can  there  be 
any  doubt  that  women  are  gaining  a  firm 
foothold  in  engineering  and,  further,  that 
WPI  women  are  making  a  difference  in 
these  enormously  challenging  yet  exciting 
times. 

In  December  1982,  the  Boston  Section  of 
the  Society  of  Women  Engineers  (SWE) 
honored  Judy  Nitsch  with  its  National 
Distinguished  New  Engineer  Award,  the 
latest  of  several  awards  for  her. 

A  project  manager  with  Boston's  Allen 
&  Demurjian,  Inc.,  a  consulting  civil 
and  structural  engineering,  architectural 
and  surveying  firm,  Judy  specializes  in 
site  planning  and  development.  She  is  a 
Registered  Professional  Engineer  in  eight 
states.  In  1980  she  was  featured  on  the 
"New  England  Today"  TV  program  and 
on  NBC  radio's  "The  Woman's  Pro- 
gram. "  A  member  of  WPI's  Alumni 
Publications  Advisory  Committee,  she  is 
coauthor  of  Terry's  Trip,  a  coloring 
book  introducing  engineering  careers  to 
grade-school  girls. 


12        WPI   JOURNAL 


Over  the  next  decade, 
industry-supported  academic 

research  will  increase 

from  $200  million  to  about 

$600  million  a  year. 

The  stream  of  money  is 
widening  and  deepening; 
the  exchange  of  ideas  and 
people  is  increasing;  even 

optimists  are  concerned 

about  paying  the  piper. 


Academe  Meets  Industry: 


Crudely  speaking,  the  purpose  of  a 
business  enterprise  is  to  provide 
goods  and  services  for  a  profit,  while 
the  purpose  of  higher  education  is  to  pro- 
duce knowledge  and  educated  people.  In- 
dustry needs  both  the  knowledge  and  the 
people,  while  academe  needs  money. 
Therefore  it  would  seem  that  industrial 
funding  could  underwrite  parts  of  aca- 
demic research  and  education,  to  the  ben- 
efit of  all — including  society  as  a  whole. 
Indeed,  while  the  federal  government 
has  reined  back  on  its  support  for  aca- 
demic research  and  training,  industries 
have  moved  in  to  help  fill  the  gap.  At 
MIT,  according  to  TIME  magazine,  pri- 
vate contracts  jumped  from  $6  million  in 
1979  to  $18  million  in  1981.  At  the  Johns 
Hopkins  School  of  Medicine,  industry  used 
to  provide  8  percent  of  its  research  fund- 
ing. In  the  last  three  years,  that  number 
has  gone  up  to  15  percent.  Over  the  next 
decade,  nationwide,  Edward  E.  David, 
Jr.  (president  of  the  Exxon  Research  and 
Engineering  Company)  estimates  that  in- 
dustry-supported academic  research  will 
increase  from  $200  million  to  about  $600 
million  a  year. 

Two  caveats:  Despite  the  federal  bud- 
get-cutting, even  that  $600  million  will  be, 
at  most,  15  percent  of  the  billions  pro- 
vided by  federal  agencies.  Secondly,  these 
numbers  are  all  less  precise  than  they 


Charting 

the 
Bottom 

Line 


by  Elise  Hancock 


sound,  because  the  financial  categories  are 
imprecise.  Is  a  grant  to  support  a  graduate 
student  philanthropic,  or  is  it  a  type  of 
public  relations  and  therefore  a  cost  of 
doing  business?  How  to  value  secondhand 
equipment  given  to  schools?  Or  new 
equipment,  for  that  matter.  Does  a  stu- 
dent internship  have  financial  value?  Dif- 
ferent companies  keep  books  in  different 


ways,  and  many  arrangements  between 
schools  and  industrial  firms  are  locally  and 
informally  handled;  they  may  never  enter 
the  corporate  books  at  all. 

Clearly,  however,  the  stream  of  money 
moving  from  industry  to  academe  is  wid- 
ening and  deepening;  the  exchange  of  ideas 
and  people  is  increasing,  and  even  opti- 
mists find  themselves  concerned  about 
paying  the  piper. 

For  seldom  before  could  anyone  say  that 
a  company  had  bought  a  department — as 
one  could  literally  say  of  the  new  De- 
partment of  Molecular  Biology  at  Mas- 
sachusetts General  Hospital  (MGH,  which 
is  affiliated  with  Harvard  Medical  School). 
Hoechst  A.  G.,  a  West  German  chemical 
company,  is  putting  up  $70  million  over 
ten  years  to  completely  equip  and  support 
the  department,  down  to  the  last  piece  of 
filter  paper.  Work  will  be  on  somatic  cell 
genetics,  microbial  genetics,  virology,  im- 
munology, plant  molecular  biology,  and 
eukaryotic  cell  gene  regulation.  MGH 
"agrees  to  do  nothing"  that  might  give 
any  other  entity  a  claim  on  work  done  by 
the  department,  staff  members  may  con- 
sult only  for  non-profit  making  entities, 
and  Hoechst  gets  exclusive  world  licen- 
ses— or  the  best  possible  license — for  any 
commercially  useful  results.  Most  mem- 
bers of  the  scientific  staff  are  expected  to 
hold  faculty  positions  at  Harvard.  Hoechst 


AUGUST  1983 


II        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


may  have  four  company  scientists  at  any 
one  time  in  training  in  the  department, 
working  on  problems  chosen  by  the  chair- 
man, distinguished  geneticist  Howard 
Goodman.  Goodman  says  it's  just  like  a 
grant,  and  he  plans  normal  academic  col- 
laboration with  colleagues  at  Harvard  on 
projects  with  NIH  funding.  He'll  need  an 
OK  from  Hoechst,  though. 

Does  that  matter?  Many  would  argue 
not.  Hoechst  presumably  entered  into  the 
agreement  because  Goodman  et  alia  have 
expertise  the  corporation  does  not.  Good- 
man is  allowed  to  follow  his  well-schooled 
intuition  about  what  fundamental  ques- 
tions will  be  most  fruitful,  Harvard  finds 
the  center  a  magnet  for  faculty,  the  de- 
partment trains  people  for  Hoechst  who 
will  be  able  to  work  on  likely  applications, 
and  the  world  at  large  will  gain  wonderful 
new  drugs,  self-fertilizing  crops,  ways  to 
combat  genetic  disease,  who  knows?  If 
Hoechst  makes  money,  why  not?  Surely 
it  is  entitled  to  a  reasonable  return  on  its 
investment. 

On  the  other  hand,  there  is  that  implicit 
leash:  Goodman  et  alia  will  presumably 
want  the  contracts  renewed.  Does  that 
mean  they  will  inevitably  begin  slanting 
their  work  for  the  quick  return,  something 
that  will  show  Hoechst  its  investment  was 
wise?  Will  they  stop  asking  the  tough 
questions,  ones  that  will  yield  applications 
only  20  years  from  now  if  ever?  Will  they 
skimp  on  their  teaching  duties?  In  short, 
do  arrangements  like  this  one  constitute 
eating  the  seed  corn? 

There  are  a  number  of  such  concerns, 
many  of  them  voiced  by  academe  and  in- 
dustry alike.  Yet  the  contracts,  large  and 
small,  continue  to  proliferate,  and  for 
compelling  reasons.  These  reasons,  and 
the  worries,  together  are  reshaping  many 
academic  departments. 


'A; 


problem  we  all  have  can  be  summed 
up  in  one  word,"  said  one  indus- 
trialist at  a  conference:  "Japan." 
Japan  has  mounted  an  effort  to  do  to  the 
computer  field  what  it  has  done  to  auto- 
mobiles and  threatens  to  do  in  biotech- 
nology: dominate  the  world  market.  U.S. 
industry  is  running  scared. 

At  the  same  time,  academia  finds  itself 
strapped.  A  few  years  ago,  roughly  half 
of  research  proposals  submitted  would 
garner  a  grant.  Today,  only  about  a  quarter 
do  (at  least  on  first  submission).  Young 
researchers,  generally  conceded  to  be  the 
most  innovative,  are  less  likely  to  win 
grants  than  are  people  you  might  call 
"proven  products";  the  young  waste  even 
more  time  writing  fruitless  grants  than  do 


senior  people.  Federal  training  grants  are 
largely  a  thing  of  the  past,  and  money  for 
equipment  is  also  becoming  hard  to  get — 
at  a  time  when  more  and  more  scientific 
fields  require  high-tech  tools.  "They  told 
me  they'd  only  pay  for  one-third  of  it,  and 
I'd  have  to  share  the  cost  with  people  who 
need  the  same  microdensitometer,"  said 
a  faculty  member  plaintively.  "But  I  could 
only  find  one,  and  he  works  on  another 
campus."  His  story  is  not  uncommon. 

Furthermore,  both  industry  and  aca- 
demia find  themselves  short-handed. 
According  to  the  American  Electronics 
Association,  U.S.  electronics  and  infor- 
mation-technology industries  will  need 
nearly  200,000  new  electrical  and  com- 
puter science  engineers  during  the  next 
five  years.  The  nation's  colleges  are  ex- 
pected to  produce  only  about  85,000  grad- 
uates with  those  skills.  About  one-quarter 
of  faculty  posts  in  engineering  colleges  are 
vacant,  for  lack  of  qualified  people,  and 
the  number  of  engineering  doctorates 
granted  continues  to  fall.  There  were  3,600 
engineering  PhDs  granted  in  1970,  but  only 
2,800  in  1981 — and  not  all  of  those  are  a 
gain.  In  1980,  according  to  the  National 
Science  Foundation,  foreigners  earned  46 
percent  of  U.S.  engineering  doctorates, 
22  percent  of  those  in  physical  sciences, 
and  27  percent  of  those  in  math.  Many  of 
them  return  home.  Japan  graduates  75,000 
engineers  annually,  the  Soviet  Union 
300,000.  The  United  States  graduates  only 
63,000,  and  the  percentage  of  scientists 
and  engineers  in  the  labor  force  has  been 
dropping  since  1965. 

Part  of  the  problem  is  that  industry  is 
eating  the  seed  corn  itself:  because  of  the 
shortage,  industrial  salaries  are  so  high 
that  fewer  engineers  choose  to  go  on  to 
graduate  schools,  and  fewer  fresh  PhDs 
choose  to  teach. 

In  an  important  sense,  then,  the  new 
academe-industry  agreements  can  be 
viewed  as  people-sharing.  Industrial  sup- 
port of  research  keeps  the  teachers  teach- 
ing, the  students  learning,  and  the  re- 
search coming.  When  several  companies 
band  together  to  sponsor  generic  research 
in  a  university  lab,  it  helps  avoid  dupli- 
cation of  effort.  In  every  way,  it  leverages 
the  available  mindpower. 

It  does  so,  moreover,  at  a  time  when 
industry  has  just  been  reminded  how 
profitable  basic  research  can  be.  In  the 
postwar  years,  it  seemed  to  take  an  idea 
15  to  20  years  to  move  from  the  basic 
research  stage  to  usable  technology.  Re- 
combinant DNA  technology,  though,  has 
taught  that  the  time  lag  is  not  inevitable. 

Once  the  Supreme  Court  ruled  that  a 


microorganism  could  be  patented — once 
it  had  been  changed — the  race  was  on. 
Insulin  grown  in  bacteria,  antibodies  tai- 
lor-made to  hone  in  on  cancer  cells,  living 
soups  that  will  clean  up  oil  spills — these 
are  not  fantasy,  a  bare  ten  years  after  the 
initial  discoveries.  The  insulin  is  already 
on  the  market;  DNA-made  interferon  is 
going  through  clinical  testing.  And  most 
of  the  work  took  place  in  universities. 

"Industry  got  caught  with  its  pants 
down,"  crowed  one  university  adminis- 
trator. "They  weren't  paying  attention." 
The  first  companies  into  biotechnology 
were  mostly  small  firms  formed  by  uni- 
versity faculty  members  with  dollar  signs 
dancing  in  their  eyes.  Now  industry  is 
buying  expertise,  sponsoring  university 
work,  and  establishing  centers. 

Nor  will  it  forget  soon  to  pay  attention. 
Many  departments  in  many  disciplines  are 
offering  affiliate  relationships,  in  which  a 
small  fee— $5,000  to  $20,000,  say— buys 
a  "window  on  research."  The  window 
usually  consists  of  occasional  symposia,  a 
newsletter,  and  access  to  faculty  and  stu- 
dents. 

Nobody  questions  the  value  of  the 
relatively  simple  window  pro- 
grams. It  is  always  good  to  view 
your  work  from  someone  else's  point  of 
view,  and  the  window  offers  that  advan- 
tage to  both  industrial  and  academic  peo- 
ple. The  fee  is  trivial  for  the  company — 
even  a  small  company — and  demands  on 
faculty  time  are  minimal.  Consulting  and 
collaboration  may  develop,  which  is  use- 
ful to  both  parties.  Alan  Goldberg,  di- 
rector of  such  a  program  at  the  Johns 
Hopkins  School  of  Hygiene  and  Public 
Health,  sums  up:  "There  are  things  we're 
doing  that  are  needed  by  industry,  and 
they  don't  know  we're  doing  it  and  we 
don't  know  they  need  it.  That's  why  the 
interaction  is  so  important." 

When  interaction  gets  more  compli- 
cated, though,  other  factors  come  into  play. 
Are  industrial  engineers  dealing  with  ac- 
ademic engineers?  In  that  case  there  is 
likely  to  be  little  trouble.  As  Edmund  T. 
Cranch,  president  of  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute  (WPI),  points  out,  academic 
engineers  have  been  working  with  com- 
panies for  decades.  "The  industrial  links 
are  absolutely  natural."  Engineers  often 
move  from  industry  to  academe  or  the 
other  way;  the  value  systems  differ  little. 
An  academic  scientist,  however,  is  often 
a  person  who  could  have  been  an  engi- 
neer. By  temperament  and  abilities,  he  or 
she  is  a  person  who  likes  to  solve  prob- 
lems— but  who  chose  less  tangible  prob- 


AUGUST  1983 


III 


K 


innri 


innnnnirr  nn 


mri  1 1  inn 


Companies  prefer  that  a  new 
technology  be  a  well-kept  trade 

secret,  like  the  formula  for 

Coca-Cola.  But  academicians 

say  they  must  have  freedom  to 

discuss  and  publish  their 

research. 


lems,  for  whatever  reason.  Usually  the 
scientist  chose  academic  science  despite 
knowing  that  engineering  or  industrial  sci- 
ence would  probably  bring  a  higher  in- 
come. Academic  scientists  may  or  may 
not  care  whether  there  is  any  immediate 
application  for  their  work,  or  even  a  long- 
term  application,  and  they  may  or  may 
not  communicate  easily  with  their  indus- 
trial counterparts.  Certainly  the  values  of 
academic  science  and  industrial  science 
differ. 

In  a  recent  talk,  Lewis  Thomas,  chan- 
cellor of  the  Memorial  Sloan-Kettering 
Cancer  Center,  claimed  that  applied  re- 
searchers thought  of  themselves  as  prac- 
tical, hardworking  types  wielding  science 
for  useful  ends  while  the  basic  scientists, 
a  "dreamy,  unworldly  lot,"  worked  with- 
out real  purpose.  On  their  side,  Thomas 
said,  the  basic  scientists  considered  them- 
selves the  only  real  source  of  scientific 
knowledge  and  saw  the  applied  scientists 
as  "money  grubbing  day  laborers."  The 
greater  traffic  between  industry  and  ac- 
ademe is  changing  these  stereotypes, 
Thomas  argued,  finding  the  shift  a  reason 
to  applaud  the  new  arrangements.  Still, 
the  comment  has  the  sting  of  a  near-truth; 
if  not  those  attitudes,  the  ghosts  of  those 
attitudes  persist.  They  interfere. 

Second,  the  intellectual  turf  also  seems 
to  matter.  In  biotechnology,  as  witness 


the  MGH/Hoechst  agreement,  academe 
has  knowledge  that  industry  badly  wishes 
to  buy.  Furthermore,  the  work  is  done 
with  equipment  a  home  laboratory  could 
easily  amass.  The  contracts  generously  cede 
almost  anything  the  universities  care  to 
ask.  But  in  areas  like  computers  and  ro- 
botics, the  knowledge  and — very  impor- 
tantly— the  expensive  equipment  are  in 
industrial  hands.  In  these  cases  faculty  and 
student  access  to  equipment  is  often  the 
school's  major  gain.  Francis  C.  Lutz,  as- 
sociate dean  for  projects  at  Worcester  Po- 
lytechnic Institute,  says  bluntly,  "It  could 
be  advantageous  to  give  up  some  of  your 
rights,  in  return  for  getting  ahead  by  two 
years,  as  industry  often  is  ahead."  Equip- 
ment can  be  a  big  factor  in  keeping — or 
not  keeping — desirable  faculty  and  stu- 
dents. 

Third,  the  clout  of  the  academic  insti- 
tution is  critical.  Home  of  the  heavy  hit- 
ters, the  ones  industry  wants  to  work  with, 
major  universities  are  able  to  negotiate 
conditions:  that  all  work  can  be  published 
in  scholarly  journals — though  after  a  brief 
delay  so  the  sponsor  can  patent  useful  ma- 
terial. Or  that  the  university  holds  the  pat- 
ent and  collects  royalties. 

Foremost  among  the  issues  that  come 
up  in  negotiations  between  industry 
and  academe  is  secrecy.  As  an  ideal, 
companies  prefer  that  a  new  technology 
be  a  well-kept  trade  secret,  like  the  for- 
mula for  Coca-Cola.  That  way  may  lie  a 
huge  profit.  Patents  are  the  second-best 
choice.  In  general,  entrusting  proprietary 
information  to  people  outside  their  own 
laboratories  seems  to  companies  danger- 
ous. How  can  their  secrets  be  protected? 

But  from  the  academic  point  of  view, 
complete  freedom  to  publish  and  talk  about 
work  is  not  merely  ideal,  but  essential. 
Said  one  dean  of  research,  "If  we  do  noth- 
ing else,  we've  got  to  protect  our  freedom 
to  publish  as  we  do.  We  have  to  preserve 
academic  openness.  In  my  view  it's  like 
personal  virtue — to  be  compromised  just 
once  is  enough."  Said  Richard  Zdanis, 
vice  provost  at  Johns  Hopkins  University, 
"If  a  researcher  on  his  own  discovers 
something  he  thinks  is  commercially  val- 
uable, all  he  needs  to  do  is  keep  quiet  and 
the  delicate  fabric  of  academic  life  is  al- 
ready damaged." 

Why?  Isn't  this  degree  of  caution  ex- 
aggerated? 

Pushed  to  explain  why  he  thought  not, 
Zdanis  offered  an  example  from  the  Space 
Telescope  Science  Institute,  which  is  on 
the  Hopkins  campus.  The  Space  Tele- 
scope staff  find  themselves  delighted  with 


Conflicts 
of  Interests 


"My  feeling  is  that  universities  are  far  too 
conservative.  They  sat  out  the  microelec- 
tronic revolution.  Now  the  biotechnical 
revolution  is  coming  along,  and  they  can't 
afford  to  sit  that  out.  What  we  have  to  do 
is  protect  the  university  by  putting  it  in  a 
position  where  it  is  not  in  control,  where 
it  only  owns  minority  stock,  where  faculty 
members  serve  only  as  consultants.  We 
have  to  keep  the  university  simon-pure 
and  clean.  But  we  have  to  let  the  univer- 
sity grow  with  the  bionic  revolution." 

— Wayne  S.  Brown,  Director, 
Innovation  Center, 
University  of  Utah 

"Some  academic  institutions  live  or  be- 
lieve they  live  in  a  risk-free  environ- 
ment— but  the  world  outside  is  risk-laden. 
Ethical  statements  get  tested  in  real  life, 
by  specific  cases,  with  the  introduction  of 
money.  That's  when  the  soul  of  the  uni- 
versity gets  tested." 

— Edmund  T.  Cranch,  President, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

"As  times  get  harder,  all  donors  will  be 
more  apt  to  try  to  call  the  shots — not  just 
corporate  sponsors.  Colleges  will  increas- 
ingly face  the  question,  Do  I  accept  the 
gift  and  the  strings  that  come  with  it,  or 
do  I  refuse?" 

—James  L.  Powell,  President, 
Franklin  and  Marshall  College 

"The  manufacturing  sector  is  only  25  per- 
cent of  the  GNP,  roughly,  but  65  percent 
of  it  derives  from  manufacturing.  Service 
doesn't  generate  money.  The  U.S.  cannot 
survive  selling  raw  inventions  and  serv- 
ices— I  don't  think  the  U.S.  wishes  to  be 
the  laundry  capital  of  the  world." 

— Leo  Hanifin,  Director, 

Center  for  Manufacturing 

Productivity  and  Technology 

Transfer,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute 

"The  average  car  has  about  16,000  parts; 
all  16,000  of  those  parts  will  come  to- 
gether and  make  a  perfect  car.  If  you,  as 
manufacturing  supervisor,  had  to  be  sure 
that  this  car  appeared  on  schedule,  you 


IV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


might  just  go  a  bit  overboard  to  make  sure 
that  you  used  nothing  but  absolutely 
proven  technology.  .  .  .  Consequently, 
when  you  approach  manufacturing  peo- 
ple with  the  idea  of  new  technology,  they 
are  something  less  than  enchanted." 

— Thomas  O.  Mathues,  Vice 
President,  General  Motors 

"The  decision  to  settle  on  just  one  school 
is  not  smart  business.  The  actual  research 
community  is  apt  to  be  spread  through 
half  a  dozen  or  more  schools.  It's  better 
to  support  the  field  as  a  whole." 

— John  Schaefer,  President, 
Research  Corporation 

"For  obvious  reasons,  it  would  be  impru- 
dent for  business  to  support  undifferen- 
tiated research:  when  it  pays  off  it  pays 
handsomely,  but  it  does  so  infrequently. 
Likewise,  it  would  be  a  clear  misappro- 
priation of  federal  funds  to  develop  these 
discoveries  into  commercial  use.  Devel- 
opment will  happen  without  institution- 
alizing it." 

— David  A.  Blake,  Associate 

Dean  for  Research,  School 

of  Medicine,  Johns  Hopkins  University 

"If  we  assert  that  industry's  welfare  de- 
pends on  the  basic  infrastructure  of  re- 
search at  universities,  then  a  mechanism 
is  needed.  Is  it  unreasonable  to  conceive 
of  an  'Industrial  Science  and  Technology 
Foundation'  to  match  in  size  and  scope 
the  government's  National  Science  Foun- 
dation?" 

—Robert  M.  White,  President, 
National  Academy  of  Engineering 

"My  view  is  that  we  make  a  product  for 
them — our  students — and  they  should  help 
pay  for  it.  Their  view  is  that  they're  doing 
us  a  favor  in  hiring  our  students.  Industry 
at  large  does  not  think  enough  about  small 
schools.  The  big  schools  will  not  produce 
enough  engineers." 

— Yi  Hua  Ma,  Head  of  Chemical 

Engineering,  Worcester  Polytechnic 

Institute 

"How  do  we  address  the  needs  of  the 
smaller  companies?  .  .  .  Such  companies 
can  and  do  compete  effectively  for  our 
students.  They  can  and  do  send  students 
here  for  continuing  education  programs. 
But  such  a  company  cannot  afford  to  be 
a  member  of  [M.I.T.'s]  liaison  programs; 
the  fees  are  too  high.  Yet  we  know  that 
some  of  the  most  innovative  companies 


in  the  country  are  these  smaller  ones.  How 
do  we  interact  with  them?" 

— James  D.  Bruce,  Director 
Industrial  Liaison  Program,  M.  I.  T. 

"Ten  years  ago,  companies  made  stuff  and 
screened  it  at  random  and  tried  it  on  an- 
imals and  hoped  you'd  stumble  on  some- 
thing. Now  medical  research  has  come  so 
far  that  good  basic  research  is  relevant  to 
drug  development."  About  the  NIH:  "That 
H  is  for  Health,  not  Hobby.  We're  on 
NIH  money  so  we  should  be  trying  to 
work  on  material  with  practical  relevance. 
Otherwise  universities  are  wasting  time." 
— Solomon  H.  Snyder,  School 
of  Medicine,  Johns  Hopkins  University 

"Look  out  for  the  price.  Watch  the  price 
very  carefully.  Because  so  often  when 
Athena,  who  is  the  goddess  of  wisdom, 
comes  in  contact  with  Mammon,  who  is 
god  of  money,  it  is  Mammon  who  comes 
out  on  top." 

—DeWitt  Stetten,  Jr. 
National  Institutes  of  Health 

"DNA  is  like  Midas's  gokl — everyone  who 
touches  it  goes  insane." 

— Frank  Press,  President, 
National  Academy  of  Sciences 

"The  Gross  National  Product  is  an  un- 
fortunate phrase,  because  what  it  really 
means  is  the  gross  national  saleable  prod- 
uct. It  does  not  include  such  products  as 
the  products  of  Homer,  of  Mozart,  or  of 
Michelangelo." 

— DeWitt  Stetten,  Jr. 

"Our  job  with  these  students  is  to  make 
sure  that  whatever  they  said  they  wanted 
when  they  came  here,  they  end  up  getting 
a  liberal  education.  We  don't  trouble  our- 
selves a  great  deal  about  biasing  the  search 
for  knowledge  in  some  way.  Harvard  has 
to  worry  about  that.  We  don't.  Our  virtue 
is  protected  because  nobody  really  wants 
to  violate  it." 

— Bryant  L.  Cureton,  Dean, 
Hartwick  College 

"The  development  of  technology-based 
emphasis  in  education  does  have  ominous 
implications.  We  can't  afford  to  lose  our 
English  departments  or  classics  depart- 
ments or  history  departments,  though  they 
don't  need  the  same  magnitude  of  support 
that  science  subjects  do.  We're  living  in 
a  technological  society,  and  if  an  attitude 
develops  that  these  are  nice  frills  but  that 


it's  technology  that  deserves  our  support, 
that  will  lead  to  a  skewing  of  values." 

—John  Schaefer 

"If  your  main  purpose  is  not  education, 
you're  not  a  university,  you're  a  research 
institute." 

— V.  David  Vandelinde 

G.W.C.  Whiting  School  of 

Engineering,  Johns  Hopkins 

University 

"Liberal  arts  students  should  learn  not  to 
be  afraid  of  computers,  and  we  should 
either  require,  or  make  it  very  easy  for, 
students  to  get  personal  computers.  But 
they  don't  really  have  to  know  anything 
about  computers.  I  don't  know  how  this 
telephone  works,  and  computers  will  be 
the  same  way  in  10  years  or  less." 

—James  L.  Powell 

"Whatever  relations  we  have  formed  with 
industries  have  first  of  all  developed  out 
of  educational  projects.  It  is  essential  that 
they  happen  this  way." 

— George  M.  Low,  President 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute 

"An  academic  lab  is  like  an  industrial  lab 
except  it's  half  trainees.  Our  students  are 
unencumbered  and  eager  and  new — that's 
very  valuable.  The  science  m  many  in- 
dustries is  first-rate,  so  what  they  want  is 
our  students  and  our  ferment.  An  insti- 
tute that  is  not  training  students  will  not 
have  the  ferment  of  a  university." 

— David  A.  Blake 

"Skilled  and  dedicated  graduate  students 
are  one  of  the  last  remaining  pools  of  cheap 
labor  anywhere  in  the  world  today.  In- 
dustrial labs  are  hard  pressed  to  match 
the  quality  of  this  working  force  in  the 
better  universities,  even  at  a  significantly 
higher  cost." 

— Lewis  B.  Gustafson, 
Conoco  executive 

"If  universities  train  people  who  are  not 
state-of-the-art,  then  it's  several  years  be- 
fore they  become  effective  for  industry. 
So  it's  really  cheaper  to  keep  us  state-of- 
the-art — but  they've  got  to  help  us  with 
the  equipment.  Otherwise,  their  own  peo- 
ple with  their  sophisticated  scientific  tem- 
peraments will  have  doctorates  from 
where?  Of  what  quality?  I  think  that's 
really  the  issue." 

— Steven  Muller,  President, 
Johns  Hopkins  University 


AUGUST  1983 


V 


Are  we  eating  the  seed  corn? 

Because  of  the  shortage  of 
engineers,  industry7  salaries  are 
high.  Therefore  fewer  students 

choose  to  go  on  to  graduate 

school,  and  fewer  fresh  PhDs 

choose  to  teach. 


the  academic  atmosphere,  he  said,  be- 
cause they  can  do  better  work.  Example: 
A  measuring  device  for  the  Telescope 
would  not  behave  itself,  and  the  staff  talked 
it  over  with  faculty  members.  A  metal- 
lurgist recommended  a  mounting  block 
with  the  same  coefficient  of  expansion  as 
the  instrument,  to  avoid  distortion — and 
it  helped.  Someone  else  advised  them  on 
humidity  and  other  atmospheric  problems 
that  might  be  affecting  performance — and 
it  helped.  After  all  the  casual  consulta- 
tion, the  instrument  out-performs  its 
manufacturer's  specifications.  And.  Zdanis 
concluded  triumphantly,  for  very  high 
quality  work  it  is  vital  to  have  this  kind 
of  daily  discussion  of  the  "details — details 
that  might  at  some  time  have  commercial 
value."  Academe  is  a  house  built  on  trust. 

This  secrecy  issue  looks  intractable,  but 
in  practice  it  can  be  worked  out.  In  recent 
contracts,  the  usual  arrangement  is  that 
the  corporation  gets  a  first  look  at  any 
papers,  and  that  publication  may  be  held 
up — sometimes  as  long  as  120  days — to 
allow  the  company  to  file  for  a  patent. 
The  normal  delays  of  academic  publishing 
are  at  least  that  long  anyway. 

More  iff\  is  the  question  of  interna- 
tional patents:  In  U.S.  law.  presenting  an 
oral  report  at  a  conference  would  not  bar 
a  patent.  But  in  the  rest  of  the  world,  it 
seems  that  any  communication  of  the 


work — "enabling  disclosure" — may  jeop- 
ardize the  patent.  How  then  to  have  peer 
review?  In  a  recent  survey  by  Donald 
Fowler.  Caltech's  General  Counsel,  uni- 
versity people  declared  the  secrecy  issue 
to  be  the  most  serious  impediment  to  in- 
dustry/university cooperative  research. 

And  what  did  industry  view  as  the  main 
impediment?  What  Fowler  calls  the  "as- 
serted fact"  that  industry  has  its  own  re- 
search capabilities,  and  would  use  them 
wherever  there  was  "no  clear-cut  cost  ad- 
vantage or  unique  capability  on  the  part 
of  the  university." 

"Unique  capability"  often  means  an  ac- 
ademic superstar  who  cannot  be  lured  from 
academe,  and  such  exist.  Young  profes- 
sors have  been  known  to  turn  down  mul- 
tiples of  their  university  salaries  because 
they  prefer  to  work  on  campus. 

The  cost  advantage  is  where  coopera- 
tive research  centers  come  in.  The  centers 
that  succeed  come  close  to  being  all  things 
to  all  people.  They  provide  meaningful 
projects  for  students — usually  graduate 
students — who  are  supervised  by  faculty. 
who  thus  maintain  contact  with  industrial 
realities  ("a  sanity  test,"  one  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute  professor  calls  it). 
Students  also  get  an  introduction  to  in- 
dustrial realities:  "Time  constraints,  money 
constraints,  having  to  work  in  a  team — 
students  learn  all  these  things  in  working 
with  industry."  says  WPI  President  Cranch. 
"So  if  we  can  expose  our  students  to  that, 
we  feel  it's  a  tremendous  advantage." 

For  the  sponsors,  a  sum  like  S20.000 
each  year  will  typically  buy  work  on  a 
project  of  their  choice,  a  chance  to  im- 
prove recruiting  by  knowing  students  well, 
access  to  faculty,  the  nonproprietary  re- 
sults of  work  performed  for  other  spon- 
sors, and  seminars  for  employees.  Says 
WPI  Dean  of  Faculty  Ray  Bolz,  "Often 
students  don't  know  something  can't  be 
done,  so  they  do  it." 

Some  cooperatives  effectively  develop 
proprietary  secrets  of  their  own.  At  the 
Center  for  Interactive  Computer  Graph- 
ics at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute,  any 
software  developed  for  one  sponsor  is 
shared  with  all  sponsors,  but  only  for  their 
internal  use.  Asked  whether  secrecy  was 
a  problem,  Director  Michael  J.  Wozny 
looked  blank.  Software  can  be  valuable, 
but  the  possibility  of  trouble  was  ob- 
viously a  new  thought,  which  would  seem 
to  indicate  that  everyone  honors  the 
agreements.  So  far.  30  companies  have 
joined  that  center  and  none  has  left. 

At  the  same  center,  enthusiastic  spon- 
sors have  donated  equipment  worth  about 
S4.5  million,  which  is  beginning  to  reverse 


the  brain  drain  to  industry.  Most  of  the 
research  is  done  by  master's  degree  can- 
didates (supervised  by  full-time  staff),  some 
of  whom  are  now  staying  on  for  PhDs. 
That's  partly  because  few  industrial  plants 
can  begin  to  match  the  equipment  of  the 
Center,  Wozny  explains. 

Such  a  center  is  obviously  good  for  stu- 
dents, who  are  exposed  to  a  rich  variety 
of  projects  and  equipment.  And  that's  the 
point,  to  RPI  President  George  M.  Low. 
He  feels  a  university/industry  link  can  suc- 
ceed only  if  the  program  has  intrinsic  ed- 
ucational merit.  Otherwise,  there  will  be 
transplant  rejection. 

The  center  concept  also  eliminates  the 
possibility  that  a  sponsor  might  dictate 
unacceptable  terms:  There  are  too  many 
sponsors.  Hoechst  might  possibly  be  able 
to  dictate  to  the  department  it  created. 
But  no  S20.000  sponsor,  even  a  mighty 
giver  of  equipment,  can  dictate  terms. 
"Even  if  company  X  wanted  us  to  do 
something  foolish,"  says  Low,  "we  would 
be  in  an  awfully  good  position  to  tell  them 
to  go  to  hell,  because  in  any  given  year 
our  income  from  any  one  company  would 
be  a  tiny  fraction  of  our  income." 

As  well  as  the  many  university  centers, 
industrial  firms  are  themselves  establish- 
ing centers,  including  the  Semiconductor 
Research  Cooperative  (SRC).  This  non- 
profit foundation  is  linked  to  the  Semi- 
conductor Industry  Association  and  is  in- 
tended to  reestablish  U.S.  supremacy  in 
integrated  circuitry.  Erich  Bloch,  IBM's 
vice  president  for  research  and  chairman 
of  SRC's  board,  says  that  Japanese  com- 
panies have  captured  about  40  percent  of 
the  market  for  the  current  generation  of 
computer  memory  chips,  the  16K  RAM. 
It  is  projected  they  may  take  70  percent 
of  the  market  for  the  64K  RAM.  Enter 
SRC,  with  plans  to  commission  long-term 
basic  research  from  universities  on  such 
topics  as  computer-aided  design,  alter- 
native semiconductor  materials,  and  new 
ways  to  imprint  circuits  on  silicon  chips. 
Industrial  members  will  contribute  in  pro- 
portion to  their  total  semiconductor  sales 
or  to  the  value  of  the  semiconductors  they 
use  in  their  products. 

The  other  big  new  industry  effort  is  the 
Microelectronics  and  Computer  Technol- 
ogy Corporation  (MCC),  a  S50-million-a- 
year  joint  venture  of  12  high-technology 
companies.  Research  will  focus  on  CAD/ 
CAM,  computer  architecture,  software 
technology,  and  packaging.  Sponsors  buy 
into  each  project  separately,  goaded  by 
the  knowledge  that  those  who  fund  the 
project  get  a  3-year  lead  on  licenses  for 
any  products — while  companies  that  are 


VI        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


AUGUST  1983        VII 


irnno 


irjxrayuOL 


A  professor's  first  loyalty  should 
be  to  academic  work.  If  he  is 

also  an  investor  in  a 

biotechnology  firm,  how  will 

that  affect  his  work? 


shareholders  but  didn't  join  the  particular 
project  gain  no  advantage.  The  research 
will  be  performed  by  research  people  from 
member  firms.  MCC  represents  the  brute 
force  approach  to  the  problem. 

The  most  imaginative  research  orga- 
nization is  a  hybrid  with  four  parts:  the 
Center  for  Biotechnology  Research,  which 
is  the  central  element  and  contracts  with 
universities — Stanford,  Berkeley,  and 
MIT.  at  this  point — to  do  basic  research 
in  production  and  product  separation 
processes.  The  universities  (part  2)  are 
independent  contractors  and  will  hold  any 
patents.  The  sponsoring  companies  (3)  can 
get  options  for  licenses  to  the  patents — 
and  so  can  (4)  a  unit  called  Engenics,  which 
is  the  profit-making  unit.  Engenics  will 
perform  applied  research  and  process  de- 
velopment in  biotechnology  and  genetic 
engineering.  The  corporations,  the  foun- 
ders, and  the  Center  hold  equity  in  En- 
genics. If  Engenics  proves  profitable,  the 
Center's  30  percent  take  will  allow  it  to 
continue  to  contract  for  basic  research. 
The  idea  is  to  prevent  conflict  of  interest. 

Of  all  the  various  problems  created  by 
the  new  order,  conflict  of  interest  is  one 
of  the  most  vexing.  A  professor's  first  loy- 
alty should  be  to  academic  work.  If  he  or 
she  is  also  an  investor  in.  for  instance,  a 
biotechnology  firm,  or  a  principal  of  the 
firm,  how  will  that  affect  her  academic 


work?  Can  the  principal  of  a  firm  ethically 
participate  as  an  academic  worker  on  re- 
search grants  contracted  by  the  firm?  Or 
can  his  students?  Will  a  financial  interest 
skew  judgment  of  the  student  work  or  of 
the  professor's  own  work?  Many  univer- 
sities are  now  asking  faculty  members  to 
disclose  any  outside  commitments. 

Disclosure  rules  sometimes  lead  to 
losses,  as  in  the  case  of  Walter  Gilbert,  a 
Nobelist  and  former  professor  of  molec- 
ular biology  at  Harvard.  Gilbert  was  also 
an  executive  with  Biogen,  S.A.,  an  inter- 
national research  firm.  In  1982,  when 
Harvard  imposed  new  rules  about  conflict 
of  interest,  Gilbert  was  asked  to  leave  the 
university  and  has  become  Biogen's  full- 
time  chairman.  Some  computer  people  are 
also  leaving  university  life  in  order  to  form 
their  own  corporations.  Individuals  are 
entitled  to  make  their  own  choices,  but 
those  leaving  are  often  those  whose  work 
is  of  the  highest  quality. 

At  first  blink,  patents  appear  to  be  a 
problem  also,  but  most  people  in  univer- 
sities no  longer  worry  about  it.  The  Patent 
and  Trademark  Amendments  of  1980  give 
universities,  small  businesses,  and  non- 
profit organizations  the  right  of  first  re- 
fusal to  title  in  inventions  made  under 
government  contract.  Previously,  the  fed- 
eral government  held  the  patents  and  re- 
fused to  give  exclusive  licenses,  on  the 
grounds  that  the  public  had  already  paid 
for  the  research.  However,  too  few  com- 
panies were  willing  to  go  to  the  expense 
of  developing  a  product  to  which  they  could 
not  hold  an  exclusive  license,  so  the  ideas 
for  which  the  public  had  already  paid  lan- 
guished in  the  patent  office. 

Many  universities  now  claim  patents  and 
share  royalties  with  the  inventor — often 
also  with  the  inventor's  department  or 
school,  and  even  the  inventor's  research. 
"That's  what  they  really  like,"  said  one 
administrator  confidentially.  "It's  tax  free 
and  it  ensures  the  continuity  of  their  work." 
Many  universities  will  grant  an  exclusive 
license,  but  under  conditions:  if  the  li- 
censee does  not  develop  and  market  the 
product,  the  exclusive  right  is  lost. 

However,  the  issue  seldom  arises.  Be- 
fore the  eruption  of  biotechnology,  schol- 
ars were  seldom  inventors.  "Look,"  said 
one  administrator.  "Look  how  few  big  in- 
ventions have  come  out  of  universities — 
warfarin,  Vitamin  D,  the  laser,  stannous 
fluoride — there  are  so  few  of  them  you 
can  count  them  on  your  fingers."  Car- 
negie-Mellon, for  one,  has  decided  not  to 
seek  patents  but  to  let  the  industrial  spon- 
sors have  them. 

A  last  worry,  in  the  flood  of  glamour 


biology  and  computer  studies,  is  that  the 
liberal  arts  will  submerge.  To  much  of  the 
public,  they  already  seem  less  and  less 
"relevant,"  and  occasional  schools  are 
phasing  out  Classics  departments  and  some 
foreign  languages.  "Possibly,"  responds 
Richard  Zdanis,  "but  whether  univer- 
sities participate  in  research  consortia  or 
not,  that's  going  to  be  a  challenge.  In  a 
sense  we're  reliving  the  Sputnik  era,  and 
we  have  to  be  concerned  about  over- 
accommodating.  But  universities  only  be- 
gan to  flourish,  really,  when  they  came 
out  of  the  monastery  and  began  to  inter- 
act with  society." 

All  these  worries  may  well  be  prema- 
ture, for  the  temptations  may  pass. 
LJoshua  Lederberg,  president  of 
Rockefeller  University,  recently  told  a  bar 
association  colloquium  in  New  York  that 
the  present  situation  is  an  "aberration." 
He  sees  the  cooperation  as  industry 
scrambling  to  draw  on  university  talent  it 
does  not  yet  have  in-house.  Agreements, 
he  notes,  mostly  call  for  industry  re- 
searchers on  campus,  for  pre-publication 
reviews,  for  seminars.  Industry  is  getting 
educated. 

Meanwhile,  one  trend  is  apparent:  the 
corporate  money  tends  to  go  to  the  aca- 
demic haves,  rather  than  the  have-nots. 
Digital  Equipment  Corporation  is  giving 
MIT  nearly  2,000  personal  computers, 
terminals,  and  work  stations,  as  well  as 
63  minicomputers  over  five  years,  while 
IBM  is  giving  the  school  about  1 ,000  per- 
sonal computers.  MIT  will  use  this  ma- 
terial to  develop  a  computerized  curric- 
ulum. Motorola  is  a  highly  selective 
industrial  associate:  MIT,  Stanford,  and 
Caltech.  RPI's  new  Center  for  Integrated 
Electronics  received  an  electron-beam  li- 
thography system,  one  of  only  three  such 
machines  ever  built,  as  a  gift  from  IBM. 

Hartwick  College,  by  contrast,  gets  a 
small  IBM  grant  to  help  retrain  two  pro- 
fessors to  use  and  teach  computers. 
Franklin  and  Marshall  College  gets  $60,000 
from  the  Research  Corporation  (a  foun- 
dation) to  support  chemistry,  because  the 
Research  Corporation  has  discovered  that 
the  majority  of  graduate  students  in 
chemistry  have  graduated  from  liberal  arts 
colleges.  Such  primarily  undergraduate 
schools  do  not  attract  the  big  bucks,  and 
the  gap  is  widening  between  the  haves  and 
the  have-nots. 

From  a  corporation's  point  of  view,  those 
particular  decisions  are  easy  to  defend.  If 
you  wish  to  computerize  scientific  curric- 
ula nationwide,  you  will  start  at  the  school 
which  is  likely  to  produce  many  future 


VIII        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


departmental  chairmen.  That's  MIT.  And 
Hartwick  was  delighted  with  its  grant, 
which  provided  exactly  what  it  needed.  It 
must  be  remembered,  though,  still  crudely 
speaking,  that  corporate  boards  expect  a 
return  on  money  spent,  and  money  spent — 
or  not  spent — indicates  corporate  priori- 
ties. To  be  fair,  there  is  also  a  certain 
inertia  in  systems  run  by  human  beings; 
it  is  hard  to  think  through  all  details  af- 
fected by  a  new  situation. 

People  like  Exxon's  Edward  David  have 
pleaded  convincingly  for  more  basic  re- 
search. The  U.S.  will  spend  $80  billion  on 
R&D  this  year,  David  has  written — over 
two- thirds  of  it  for  development.  He  writes: 

"The  process  is  so  expensive  and  so  slow 
because  we  are  receiving  inadequate  help 
from  predictive  science.  In  the  petroleum 
and  chemical  industries,  we  typically  must 
build  pilot  plants  costing  hundreds  of  mil- 
lions of  dollars  to  determine  whether  and 
how  we  can  practice  a  technology  on  an 
industrial  scale.  The  reason  is  that  we  still 
know  too  little  about  the  structure  and 
chemistry  of  hydrocarbons  and  this  ap- 
plies particularly  to  synthetic  fuel  re- 
sources like  coal  and  oil  shale.  There  are 
similar  problems  in  other  industries.  De- 
signers of  aircraft  and  steam  turbines  spend 
heavily  on  wind  tunnel  tests  because  they 
lack  a  good  theory  of  turbulence  and  of 
materials  failures." 

In  Donald  Fowler's  survey,  both  uni- 
versity and  industrial  people  called  for 
more  basic  research,  and  both  see  a  sig- 
nificant correlation  between  the  amount 
of  money  spent  on  basic  technological  re- 
search and  future  technological  produc- 
tivity. Of  the  academicians,  98  percent 
believed  that  such  a  correlation  existed, 
and  89  percent  of  those  in  industry  agreed. 
Still,  substantial  segments  of  industry  show 
only  a  verbal  commitment  to  higher  ed- 
ucation and  basic  research. 

Item:  Westinghouse  Educational  Foun- 
dation contributes  more  than  $2  million 
each  year  to  various  universities  for  fac- 
ulty development  and  structuring  curric- 
ula, according  to  Westinghouse  Vice 
President  Roy  V.  Gavert,  writing  in 
CHANGE  Magazine  (April  1983).  That 
sounds  good.  Then  on  another  page,  one 
learns  that  Westinghouse  also  spends  $27 
million  on  in-house  education  programs 
for  employees.  It  does  seem  that  some  of 
that  $27  million  could  have  been  spent 
sending  Westinghouse  employees  to  take 
appropriate  courses  at  local  colleges  which 
need  students.  It  might  well  have  been 
cheaper  and  better  to  do  so. 

Item:  It  is  generally  agreed  that  the 
dwindling  supply  of  PhDs  is  a  serious 


problem,  and  the  American  Chemical  So- 
ciety has  organized  something  called  the 
Chemical  Research  Council,  which  is  in- 
tended to  promote  cooperation  between 
industry  and  higher  education.  Now  in  its 
second  year,  the  Council  has  40  industrial 
members,  including  Dow  Chemical, 
Exxon,  Monsanto,  and  the  Shell  Devel- 
opment Company,  and  141  university 
members.  The  Council's  first  project  is  to 
distribute  industrial  money  from  a  kitty, 
which  is  to  be  divided  among  university 
members  based  on  the  number  of  PhDs 
graduated  in  chemistry  and  chemical  en- 
gineering. The  present  40  corporate  mem- 
bers are  better  than  20  corporate  mem- 
bers, the  number  of  the  first  year,  but  it's 
not  many.  It  will  be  interesting  to  see  how 
many  corporations  take  up  this  straight- 
forward way  of  helping  universities  meet 
the  need  for  PhDs  in  chemistry. 

Item:  the  comment  and  suggestion  of 
Harit  Majmudar,  professor  of  electrical 
engineering  at  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute. You  might  say  he's  on  the  front 
lines.  Majmudar  says  flatly,  "When  in- 
dustry really  begins  to  feel  the  pinch  in 
terms  of  qualified  students,  they  say  they've 
got  to  get  involved.  When  they  don't  feel 
a  pinch  they  won't  care  one  iota."  The 
market  for  electrical  engineers  is  now  very 
competitive.  "So  every  week  I  get  a  call, 
'We  want  to  have  a  better  relationship, 
what  can  we  do  for  you?'  "  He  thinks  the 
answer  is  obvious:  be  involved  on  a  con- 
tinuing basis.  "They  can  see  where  we  are 
hurting.  Engineering  education  in  partic- 
ular has  needs  for  equipment  and  supplies 
which  have  become  very  costly.  These  are 
not  capital  expenses,  these  are  operating 
expenses.  And  we  need  fellowships."  And, 
he  concludes,  we  need  to  "find  people  in 
industry  who  can  participate  as  profes- 
sors. The  concept  of  practitioners  on  one 
side  and  professors  on  the  other — we 
should  abandon  the  schism.  We  need  to 
do  this  as  a  corporate  decision,  not  just 
allow  one  guy  to  teach  night  school." 

Consider  also  an  organization  called  the 
Life  Sciences  Research  Foundation 
(LSRF),  founded  by  Donald  D.  Brown, 
a  prominent  Baltimore  biologist.  The  other 
organizers  are  David  Baltimore,  Paul  Berg, 
Konrad  E.  Bloch,  Arthur  Kornberg, 
Daniel  Nathans,  Hamilton  O.  Smith, 
James  D.  Watson,  and  Lewis  Thomas.  All 
but  Brown  and  Thomas  are  Nobel  Prize 
winners.  These  scientists  are  concerned 
that  federal  budget  cuts  and  industrial  in- 
terest in  biomedicine  will,  at  best,  divert 
universities  from  fundamental  research. 

LSRF  seeks  30  postdoctoral  fellowships 
a  year,  at  $30,000  each,  for  young  sci- 


"When  industry  begins  to  feel 

the  pinch  in  terms  of  qualified 

students,  they  suddenly  say 

they've  got  to  get  involved. 

When  they  don't  feel  a  pinch, 

they  don't  care  one  iota." 


entists  chosen  by  an  LSRF  peer  review 
committee  to  do  basic  biological  research, 
non-targeted  and  with  no  strings  at- 
tached. (The  young  scientists  are  ex- 
pected to  visit  their  sponsor  corporations, 
however.)  Considering  tax  breaks,  the  ac- 
tual cost  to  a  corporation  would  be  about 
$13,000.  Given  the  caliber  of  the  organ- 
izers, you'd  think  this  could  be  a  remark- 
ably economical  way  to  sponsor  life  sci- 
ences research  at  the  very  front  line,  where 
recombinant  DNA  was  15  years  ago.  You'd 
think  sponsors  would  be  waiting  in  line. 

After  a  year  of  hard  work,  Brown  has 
found  support  for  only  11  three-year  fel- 
lowships, ten  from  companies  and  one  from 
a  foundation,  and  six  pledges  for  future 
years.  Monsanto  (chemicals)  and  Hoff- 
man-LaRoche  (drugs)  became  sponsors 
immediately  for  two  Fellows  each  and 
helped  with  the  fund-raising.  LSRF  has 
two  objectives:  to  strengthen  research  and 
teaching  in  the  life  sciences,  and  to  con- 
vince industry  that  they're  giving  wrongly, 
in  too  short-sighted  a  way.  "They're  used 
to  getting  it  free,"  Brown  says.  "For  years 
the  government  supported  all  this  work 
and  trained  all  these  people — the  corpo- 
rations need  to  adjust  to  new  times." 

So  does  higher  education. 

Elise  Hancock  is  editor  of  the  Johns 
Hopkins  Magazine. 


AUGUST  1983 


IX 


By  Solomon  W.  Golomb 


Or,  a  new  conversion  table 

for  scientific  units,  indicating 

a  series  of  precise  numerical  relationships. 

Some  of  these  may  previously  have  been  overlooked. 


1012  microphones  =  1  megaphone 


10    12  boulevards 


=  1  gigolo 


^>^^^k  1012pins  v l  tera*in 


10  millipedes  =  1  centipede 


*£> 


1  centipede/second    ^ 


5  holocausts    ^rl 
^7 


=  1  Pentecost 


=  1  decadent 


w 


106  bicycles 


=  2  megacycles 


109  micrometers        =  1  kilometer       =  200  pentameters 
2  X  103  militaries 


=  4  seminaries  * 


1  milli-Helen 


10  "5  dollars 


10  monologues 

."A  W  w  V™/Ajil\5/ 


*  The  enlightenment  generated  by  a  seminary  is  measured  in  luminaries 


=  1  binary 


the  amount  of  beauty 
required  to  launch  1  ship 


r     =  1  Millicent 


i     =  a  prefix  designating  10 


-18 


Readers  are  invited  to  send  in  their  own 
proposed  conversions,  which  will  be  pub- 
lished in  a  later  issue.  Please  write  before 
October  15. 

To  jog  your  memory,  Solomon  W.  Go- 
lomb  has  prepared  a  table  of  the  stand- 
ardized prefixes  corresponding  to  scale 
factor  changes  by  powers  of  ten: 

10  =  101  =  deca- 

100  =  102  =  hecta- 

1,000  -  103  =  kilo- 

1,000,000  =  106  =  mega- 

1,000,000,000  =  109  =  giga- 

1,000,000,000,000  =  1012  =  tera- 

—  =  10-1  =  deci- 


100 


=  10  "2  =  centi- 


1,000 


=  10- 


milli- 


1 


1,000,000 


=  10  6  =  micro- 


1 


1,000,000,000 


=  10  9  =  nano- 


1 


1,000,000,000,000 


In  addition,  there  are  well-established 
prefixes  for  the  factors  from  1  to  9,  based 
on  both  Latin  and  Greek  roots: 


1 

= 

uni- 

OR  mono- 

OR  holo- 

2 

= 

bi- 

ORdi- 

OR  diplo- 

3 

= 

ter- 

OR  tri- 

4 

= 

quadri- 

OR  tetra- 

5 

6 

_ 

quinto- 
sexa- 

OR  penta- 
OR  hexa- 

7 
8 

_ 

septa- 
octa- 

OR  hepta- 
OR  okta- 

9 

= 

nona- 

OR  ennea- 

Other  factors  for  which  there  are  agreed 
prefixes  include: 


Vi    =  semi- 

OR  hemi- 

OR  demi- 

%    =   sesqui- 

11    =   undeca- 

OR  hendeca- 

12   =   dodeca- 

13   =   triskaideca- 

20   =   icosa- 

Solomon  XV.  Golomb  is  professor  of  electrical  en- 
gineering and  mathematics  at  the  University  of 
Southern  California,  where  his  primary  area  of  in- 
terest is  communication  engineering — information 
theory  and  coding  theory.  A  writer  of  palindromes, 
he  has  also  written  of  an  analogy  he  discovered 
between  quark  theory  and  Rubik's  cube. 


Once,  doctors  prescribed  crocodile 
dung,  fly  specks,  and  eunuch  fat: 
patients  came  back  for  more,  because 
they  wound  up  feeling  better. 


J'm  the  doctor  and  you're  the  patient: 
I  tell  you  I'm  giving  you  something  to 
make  you  feel  better.  You  take  it  and, 
sure  enough,  you  do  feel  better.  Yet  there's 
nothing  in  what  I  gave  you  to  account  for 
it.  Maybe  it's  an  injection  of  salt  solution, 
which  can  relieve  severe  surgical  pain  by 
no  physiological  mechanism  known  to 
medical  science.  Or  a  sugar  pill,  which 
logically,  pharmacologically,  or  any  other 
way  can  have  no  effect,  for  good  or  ill, 
on  the  common  cold.  But  it  does  anyhow: 
That's  the  placebo  effect. 

In  his  famous  1955  review  of  15  placebo 
studies,  which  involved  1,082  patients  suf- 
fering from  conditions  that  ranged  from 
headache  and  seasickness  to  wound  pain 
and  the  common  cold,  pioneer  placebo 
researcher  Henry  K.  Beecher  found  that 
placebos  worked  about  one  third  of  the 
time,  or  to  use  the  precise  figure  cited 
frequently  since,  "35.2  plus  or  minus  2.2 
percent." 

Consider  this:  A  research  team  at  the 
University  of  California  at  San  Francisco 
(Jon  D.  Levine,  Howard  L.  Fields,  and 
two  others)  in  1980  reported  that,  on  av- 
erage, a  placebo  packed  the  pharmaco- 
logical punch  of  a  four  to  six  milligram 
dose  of  morphine  in  treating  the  pain  of 
tooth  extractions. 

Or  this:  In  a  clinical  trial  during  the 
early  1960s,  surgeons  tied  off  certain  ar- 
teries of  patients  suffering  from  anginal 
pain.  The  idea  was  to  improve  circulation 
to  the  heart.  It  worked,  or  seemed  to; 
patients  reported  at  least  60  percent  relief 
from  pain.  But  this  pleasing  result  was 
tainted  when  mock  "operations"  in  which 
the  skin  of  patients  was  cut,  leaving  a  scar. 


while  internal  organs  were  left  un- 
touched— an  experimental  control  involv- 
ing a  form  of  placebo  surgery  not  apt  to 
be  condoned  today — achieved  almost 
identical  results. 

A  placebo's  effects  needn't  be  benefi- 
cial: Placebos  have  been  found  to  elicit 
side  effects  ranging  from  headache  and 
drowsiness  to  nausea  and  a  "warm  glow," 
just  like  pharmacologically  active  drugs. 
And  they  can  be  addictive:  In  one  famous 
case,  colored  pills — a  "new  major  tran- 
quilizer," she  was  told — were  given  to  a 
44-year-old  schizophrenic  woman.  They 
did  help  relieve  her  headache,  insomnia, 
and  anxiety.  But  after  a  while,  she  started 
doubling  and  redoubling  her  dosage.  Pretty 
soon  she  was  taking  25  tablets  a  day  and 
couldn't  stop  without  psychiatric  help. 

But  by  and  large,  placebos  do  leave  pa- 
tients suffering  less.  In  one  1965  study 
conducted  at  Johns  Hopkins  Hospital  by 
Lino  Covi  and  Lee  C.  Park,  both  now 
associate  professors  of  psychiatry,  14  out 
of  15  patients  declared  that  the  inert  pink 
pills  they'd  been  given  to  treat  their  neu- 
rotic symptoms  had  helped.  In  fact,  four 
of  the  15  rated  them  "the  most  effective 
ever  prescribed  for  them" — although 
they'd  been  told  they  were  receiving  sugar 
pills.  In  at  least  one  instance,  a  placebo 
effect  has  even  reversed  the  effects  of  an 
active  drug:  When,  in  the  early  1950s,  a 
pregnant  woman  in  a  New  York  hospital 
complained  of  nausea,  her  physician, 
Stewart  Wolf,  gave  her  a  drug  he  assured 
her  would  cure  it.  Sure  enough,  the  nau- 
sea disappeared.  The  medicine  he'd  given 
her?  Ipecac,  normally  given  to  induce 
vomiting. 


Like  other  medicines,  a  placebo  may  or 
may  not  work;  the  "placebo  effect"  is  what 
happens  when  it  does.  It  may  be  pre- 
scribed to  actually  help  the  patient.  Or  it 
may  be  used  as  a  control  in  the  clinical 
trial  of  some  drug  or  treatment.  It  may 
be  a  small  green  pill,  or  a  big  impressive 
red  capsule;  size,  shape,  and  color  don't 
seem  to  matter.  It  may  be  an  injection. 
It  may  be  superficial  surgery  whose  only 
effect  is  to  leave  a  scar.  It  may  succeed 
in  lowering  the  pulse,  or  causing  gastric 
juices  to  secrete,  or  easing  depression,  or 
reducing  pain.  It  is,  in  short,  the  form  of 
treatment  without  its  substance;  yet  it  can 
achieve  substantive  results. 

Placebos  work  on  some  of  the  people 
some  of  the  time,  but  not  on  all  the 
people  all  the  time.  Is  there  one 
kind  of  person  who  responds  to  placebos 
and  another  who  doesn't?  Is  there,  in  short, 
such  a  thing  as  a  "placebo  reactor"? 

Though  students  of  the  subject  disa- 
gree, the  more  widespread  view  these  days 
is  that  there  is  not.  The  fact  is,  some  stud- 
ies find  that  females  respond  to  placebos 
more  than  do  men,  others  the  reverse. 
Some  studies  find  correlations  with  IQ, 
while  others  do  not.  And  many  people 
respond  to  placebos  at  one  time  but  not 
another. 

There  are,  however,  certain  paradoxi- 
cal consistencies  about  the  situations  in 
which  placebos  tend  to  work.  First,  pla- 
cebos are  clearly  more  effective  in  easing 
clinical  pain  than  experimentally  induced 
pain — by  one  crude  measure  about  twice 
as  effective,  according  to  Michael  Jospe 
in  The  Placebo  Effect  in  Healing. 


Magic  Medjcine: 

"The  doctor  gave  me  something.    Now  I  feel  better. " 


XII        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Second,  placebos  work  better  on  severe 
pain  than  they  do  on  mild  pain:  In  one 
study  by  Beecher,  a  placebo  was  only  29 
percent  as  effective  as  a  standard  dose  of 
morphine  on  patients  with  "mild"  pain, 
but  77  percent  as  effective  on  patients  with 
"very  severe  pain." 

Finally,  there  is  "the  Anzio  effect": 
Soldiers  badly  wounded  on  the  beachhead 
at  Anzio,  one  of  World  War  IFs  bloodiest 
battles,  and  removed  to  rear  positions  for 
care,  complained  far  less  often  of  pain 
than  do  typical  hospital  patients  recover- 
ing from  surgery.  Placebo  pioneer  Beecher, 
who  first  took  note  of  the  discrepancy, 
found  that  less  than  a  third  of  the  wounded 
soldiers  complained  of  enough  pain  to  re- 
quire morphine.  But  morphine  was  needed 
by  four  out  of  five  civilians  recovering  from 
analogous  wounds  incurred  in  surgery. 

What  to  make  of  it  all?  The  interpre- 
tation fashioned  by  Beecher,  and  now 
widely  accepted,  is  that  pain  has  two  dis- 
tinct components.  One  is  associated  with 
the  original  source  of  the  pain.  The  other 
factor  superimposes  on  the  sensation  it- 
self the  patient's  fears,  anxieties,  and  ig- 
norance about  his  situation.  GIs  pulled  to 
safety  at  Anzio  were  relieved  at  having 
survived  the  battle  and  now  perhaps  being 
on  their  way  home,  thus  easing  their  pain. 
Surgery  patients  on  the  other  hand, 
plucked  from  home  and  family  and  sub- 
jected to  a  hospital  ordeal,  generally  feel 
a  heightened  anxiety.  The  anxiety  com- 
pounds their  pain. 

Likewise,  the  kinds  of  experimental  pain 
inflicted  on  willing  subjects,  through  elec- 
trical shock  and  other  controlled  means, 
mostly  lack  that  secondary  component  of 


pain  that  intensifies  suffering:  They  carry 
no  ambiguity  and  fear.  That  holds  for  mild 
pain  of  any  sort,  like  that  from  a  scratched 
thumb.  Its  victim  is  apt  to  be  aware  of  the 
pain,  yet  not  concerned. 

It's  this  second  component  of  pain,  then, 
that  the  placebo  is  thought  to  reduce.  Act- 
ing not  upon  the  wound  itself,  but  rather 
easing  the  patient's  emotions  about  it,  it 
lessens  its  perceived  intensity.  This  "cog- 


nitive" dimension  is  what  NIH  researcher 
Ronald  Dubner  also  comes  back  to  in 
trying  to  explain  the  placebo's  salutary 
effects — not  just  on  pain  but  on  all  man- 
ner of  physiological  and  psychological 
conditions.  "The  meaning  of  the  pain 
changes  because  you  get  a  placebo,"  he 
says.  "What  you're  altering  is  not  the  in- 
tensity of  the  sensation  but  the  relative 
unpleasantness  of  the  situation  as  a  whole. 


"Since  it  doesn't  do  anything,  it  won't  be  easy  to  get  people  to  take  it  every  day. 
There's  just  no  demand  for  a  preventative  placebo. " 


The  Phcebo 


by  Robert  Kanigel 


AUGUST  1983        XIII 


"Find  out  who  set  up  this  experiment.  It  seems  that  half  of  the  patients  were  given  a 
placebo,  and  the  other  half  were  given  a  different  placebo. " 


The  placebo  alters  the  meaning  of  the  ex- 
perience: 'The  doc  gave  me  something: 
now  I  feel  better.'" 

Once,  of  course,  placebos  were 
virtually  the  only  treatment  phy- 
sicians prescribed.  Once,  before 
CAT  scans  and  penicillin,  doctors  pre- 
scribed crocodile  dung,  teeth  of  swine,  fly- 
specks .  oil  of  ants.  fur.  feathers,  and  eun- 
uch fat.  They  purged  their  patients,  punc- 
tured them,  blistered  them,  bled  them, 
froze  them,  and  shocked  them.  Remark- 
ably, patients  kept  coming  back  for  more. 
Came  back  because  they  wound  up  feel- 
ing better.  Came  back  for  something  in 
those  few  moments  with  witch  doctor,  faith 
healer,  or  physician,  something  in  his 
healing  touch,  that  left  them  better  off — 
freer  of  symptoms,  further  from  death — 
than  they'd  been  before. 

"Today  we  know."  writes  veteran  pla- 
cebo researcher  Arthur  K.  Shapiro  of 
Mount  Sinai  Hospital  in  New  York,  "that 
the  effectiveness  of  those  procedures  and 
medications  was  due  to  psychological  fac- 
tors often  referred  to  as  the  placebo  ef- 
fect. Since  almost  all  medicines  were  until 
recently  placebos,  the  history  of  medical 
treatment  can  be  characterized  largelv  as 


the  history  of  the  placebo  effect." 

But  then  along  came  modern  medicine: 
Antibiotics  do  not  depend  for  their  po- 
tency on  the  personality  of  the  physician 
administering  them,  or  the  kindness  he 
shows,  or  the  ritual  setting  in  which  he 
renders  treatment.  The  old  remedies, 
meanwhile,  which  worked  only  some  of 
the  time  and  in  mysterious  ways,  were  by 
and  large  discarded.  And  the  placebo  ef- 
fect itself,  whose  potency  had  masked  their 
ineffectiveness0  As  if  guilty  by  association 
with  crocodile  dung  and  bleeding  cups,  it 
came  to  be  "considered  merely  as  a  var- 
iable to  be  controlled."  as  one  revisionist 
commentary  in  the  Journal  of  the  Amer- 
ican Medical  Association  noted  in  1975. 
and  so  "ignored." 

Coming  from  Latin,  the  word  placebo 
translates  as  "I  shall  please."  After  the 
Middle  Ages  it  came  to  mean  a  senile 
flatterer,  sycophant,  or  toady.  By  1811 — 
it  appeared  that  year  in  Hooper's  Medical 
Dictionary — it  was  being  used  about  as  it 
is  today,  complete  with  faintly  unsavory 
aroma,  as  an  "epithet  given  to  any  med- 
icine adapted  more  to  please  than  benefit 
the  patient." 

Contempt  dogged  the  subject,  and  in 
some  quarters  still  does.  Around  the  turn 


of  the  century .  the  eminent  Harvard  med- 
ical ethicist  and  physician  Richard  C.  Ca- 
bot observed  that  "No  patient  whose  lan- 
guage you  can  speak,  whose  mind  you  can 
approach,  needs  a  placebo.  I  give  place- 
bos now  and  then  ...  to  Armenians  and 
others  with  whom  I  cannot  communi- 
cate." A  more  recent  commentator  la- 
mented that  "some  patients  are  so  unin- 
telligent, neurotic,  and  inadequate  as  to 
be  incurable,  and  life  is  made  easier  for 
them  by  a  placebo." 

In  keeping  with  these  attitudes,  it  is  only 
in  the  last  35  years  or  so  that  the  placebo 
effect  has  been  studied  as  a  phenomenon 
all  its  own.  As  Hopkins  pharmacologist 
Paul  Talalay  observes.  "The  major  text- 
books of  medicine  don't  even  mention  the 
subject" — although,  as  he  says,  the  pla- 
cebo "confounds  every  transaction  be- 
tween the  physician  and  patient." 

"Most  physicians  tend  to  disbelieve  the 
magnitude  of  it."  says  Talalay.  and  are 
uncomfortable  with  the  subject.  "It  un- 
dermines a  doctor's  confidence  in  the  ef- 
fectiveness of  his  treatment.  We're  not 
comfortable  with  the  idea  that  much  of 
the  time  what  we're  doing  has  no  thera- 
peutic basis ....  It  makes  us  edgy.  I  sup- 
pose it's  because  the  placebo  is  the  meet- 
ing ground  between  the  physician  and  the 
charlatan." 

Psychiatrist  Jerome  Frank  of  Hop- 
kins likes  to  speak  to  "the  faith  that 
heals."  That  was  the  title  of  an  ad- 
dress he  gave  a  group  of  medical  school 
graduates  in  1975  in  which  he  outlined 
how  Christian  Scientists,  acupuncturists, 
yoga  masters,  and  the  like  view  illness  and 
health.  All  such  non-medical  healers,  he 
observed,  see  health  "as  a  state  of  har- 
monious integration  of  the  person  with 
himself,  and  with  his  society,  nature,  and 
the  cosmos."  Illness  represents  a  disrup- 
tion of  this  harmony,  and  "the  task  of  the 
healer  is  to  restore  the  disrupted  har- 
mony." mobilizing  the  patient's  faith 

And  mobilizing  the  patient's  faith,  ar- 
gued Frank,  is  part  of  what  happens  every 
day  in  every  hospital,  right  alongside  the 


XIV        AL  AGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


"I  give  placebos  ..."  said  medical 
ethicist  Richard  C.  Cabot,  uto 
Armenians  and  others  with  whom  1 
cannot  communicate. ' 


surgery  and  the  drugs.  "One  need  only 
substitute  Science  for  the  supernatural 
healing  powers  invoked  at  faith-healing 
shrines  to  discover  striking  similarities," 
Frank  told  his  Commencement  Day  lis- 
teners. At  a  hospital,  which  enjoys  "an 
immense  reputation  as  a  site  of  amazing 
cures,"  physicians  "perform  arcane  ritu- 
als." Their  labs  and  operating  rooms  and 
intensive  care  units  are  places  to  "which 
they  alone  have  access."  They  employ 
"spectacular  machines  that  beep  and  gur- 
gle and  flash  lights  or  emit  immensely 
powerful  but  invisible  rays."  From  time 
to  time  they  perform  "a  dramatic,  expen- 
sive, and  impressive  operation  in  which 
the  surgeon  stops  the  patient's  heart,  re- 
pairs it  and  starts  it  up  again.  The  surgeon 
literally  kills  the  patient  and  then  resur- 
rects him.  Few  faith  healers  can  make  an 
equally  impressive  demonstration  of  heal- 
ing power." 

A  patient  typically  comes  to  every  en- 
counter with  his  physician,  says  Frank, 
with  an  attitude  of  "  'Oh,  he  must  have 
very  powerful  medicine,'  which  is  the 
equivalent  of  'Oh,  he  has  powerful 
magic'  "  This  "magic,"  and  the  patient's 
belief  in  its  power,  are  the  basis  of  the 
placebo  effect. 

Frank  concludes,  "History  has  shown 
that  faith  healing  works,  and  the  placebo 
is  an  attenuated  form  of  it  .  .  .  Faith  heal- 
ing conjures  up  witchcraft  and  all  sorts  of 
quackery,"  he  admits,  but  what  the  mod- 
ern physician  does,  through  the  placebo 
effect,  is  simply  "smuggle  it  in  through 
the  back  door." 

^V  s  the  doctor-patient  relationship  is 
/  \  rediscovered  as  a  worthy  focus  for 
JL  JLmedical  research  and  medical  ed- 
ucation," writes  Howard  Brody  of  Mich- 
igan State  University  in  a  recent  issue  of 
the  Annals  of  Internal  Medicine,  "the  pla- 
cebo effect  assumes  center  stage  as  one 
approach  to  a  more  sophisticated  under- 
standing of  this  relationship."  It  is  not  the 
medical  expertise  the  doctor  can  bring  to 
bear  that  counts  most  heavily  here,  but 
the  doctor  in  person,  and  the  kindness. 


caring,  and  warmth  that  are  offered — or 
not  offered. 

Consider  this  study  from  the  mid-1960s: 
Two  matched  groups  of  patients  facing 
abdominal  surgery  got  differing  styles  of 
care.  One  had  the  anesthesiologist  in  to 
tell  them  about  the  coming  operation  but 
heard  nothing  about  any  postoperative  pain 
they  might  face.  The  other  group  got  spe- 
cial treatment:  The  anesthesiologist  spent 
much  more  time  with  them,  discussed  the 
nature  and  severity  of  the  pain  they  were 
likely  to  experience,  and  reassured  them 
that  backup  medication  was  available  from 
the  nursing  staff.  As  it  turned  out,  those 
in  the  more  sympathetically  treated  group 
needed  only  half  the  pain  medication,  and 
were  discharged  from  the  hospital  an  av- 
erage of  two  days  earlier,  than  members 
of  the  other  group.   "A  placebo  effect 


without  the  placebo,"  was  how  the  in- 
vestigators put  it  (L.  D.  Egbert,  G.  E. 
Battit,  C.  E.  Welch,  and  M.  K.  Bartlett, 
New  England  Journal  of  Medicine).  What 
it  amounted  to,  though,  was  caring  and 
respect  for  the  patients  as  people. 

This  and  other  studies  yielding  similar 
results  moved  Herbert  Benson  and  Mark 
D.  Epstein  to  lament,  in  a  commentary 
in  the  Journal  of  the  American  Medical 
Association  entitled  "The  Placebo  Effect: 
A  Neglected  Asset  in  the  Care  of  Pa- 
tients," "the  growing  trend  toward  de- 
creasing doctor-patient  contact,  for  ex- 
ample through  the  use  of  computer 
facilities  to  obtain  histories."  Benson  has 
elsewhere  been  quoted  as  saying  that  "the 
most  important  thing  a  doctor  can  do  in 
terms  of  dispensing  care  is  simply  to  care 
about  the  patient.  And  establishing  rap- 


"Well,  I  went  to  medical  school  overseas,  and  for  your  type  of  low-back  pain,  we 
sprinkle  dried  roots  on  the  ground,  then  chant  for  ten  minutes." 


AUGUST  1983        XV 


ult  makes  us  edgy, "  says 
pharmacohgistPaulTalalay.  "I 
suppose  because  the  placebo  is  the 
meeting  ground  between  physician 
and  charlatan." 


port  is  the  real  basis  for  the  placebo  ef- 
fect." 

To  what  can  be  traced  the  physician's 
healing  influence?  Until  40  years  ago,  of 
course,  very  often  all  a  physician  could 
do  was  diagnose,  laying  out  the  likely 
course  of  an  illness  and  informing  the  pa- 
tient what  he  would  face.  And  this  actually 
helped.  In  an  insight  Jerome  Frank  credits 
to  a  Hopkins  colleague,  Paul  R.  McHugh, 
those  early  physicians  were  at  least  ad- 
dressing the  awful  ambiguity  a  sick  patient 
feels  about  his  condition,  and  ambiguity 
is,  as  Frank  notes,  "one  of  the  greatest 
sources  of  anxiety."  Anxiety,  in  turn — as 
Henry  K.  Beecher,  with  his  two-level  pain 
model  30  years  ago  surmised — tends  to 
aggravate  the  pain  the  patient  actually 
perceives.  Thus  a  doctor  who  "offers  clear, 
concise,  unambiguous  treatment  imme- 
diately reduces  anxiety,"  says  Frank,  and 
so,  in  many  cases,  the  patient's  suffering 
as  well. 

But  the  physician's  healing  influence  is 
hardly  cut  and  dried.  "Between  the  doc- 
tor and  the  patient's  getting  better  there 
may  be  50  complicated  variables  that  af- 
fect one  another,"  says  medical  psychol- 
ogist Michael  Jospe;  medicine  is  an  art  as 
well  as  a  science  and,  like  any  art,  some 
practitioners  may  be  better  at  it  than 
others.  Whether  physicians  differ  innately 
in  their  ability  to  heal  is,  as  Jerome  Frank 
says,  an  "awkward  question."  But  Mi- 
chael Jospe  plainly  thinks  so.  "Some  doc- 
tors are  better  healers  than  others,"  he 
says,  and  the  differences  lie  in  their  per- 
sonalities, in  the  intuition,  the  calming  in- 
fluence they  bring  to  their  dealings  with 
patients. 

Is  this,  then,  what  faith  healers  and  other 
"primitive"  practitioners  offer?  "Oh,  yes," 
Jospe  replies.  "We  only  say  it's  'primitive' 
because  it's  so  complex  we  don't  know 
how  to  deal  with  it." 

/\  s  to  the  placebo  itself,  though ,  there 
/   \  is  one  intriguing  lead  on  a  possible 
JL      JLphysiological  mechanism,  discov- 
ered in  California  a  few  years  ago.  Jon 
Levine's  research  team  at  the  University 


of  California  at  San  Francisco  gave  first 
placebos,  then  intravenous  naloxone,  to 
patients  recovering  from  surgery  for  tooth 
extraction:  the  naloxone  cancelled  any 
placebo  effects  they'd  experienced.  The 
article  was  published  in  Nature,  Britain's 
pre-eminent  journal,  and  created  inter- 
national excitement  among  researchers  in 
the  life  sciences. 

Naloxone  is  an  "opiate  antagonist": 
Often  used  in  helping  addicts  detoxify,  it 
locks  onto  the  same  receptor  sites  in  the 
brain  at  which  endorphins  hook  up  (the 
brain's  natural  opiates) ,  thus  blocking  their 
pain-killing  action.  Therefore,  if  an  in- 
jection of  naloxone  blocks  the  placebo's 
analgesic  effect  in  patients  who  had  been 
relieved  by  it,  perhaps  the  placebo  effect 
works  through  the  endorphin  system. 

Years  before,  in  1965,  Louis  Lasagna 
had  commented  on  the  "curious  hyper- 
algesic  [pain-heightening]  effect"  of  na- 
loxone on  patients  with  post-operative 
pain,  but  couldn't  explain  it.  Now  here, 
maybe,  lay  the  explanation:  The  placebo 
marshals  the  body's  natural  pain-killing 
system — which  the  naloxone  disrupted, 
thus  exacerbating  pain. 

Maybe.  Recent  studies  at  the  National 
Institutes  of  Health  seem  to  lend  another 
interpretation  to  the  California  results.  Just 
as  in  Levine's  work,  says  Ronald  Dubner 
(chief  of  neurobiology  and  anesthesiology 
at  the  National  Institute  of  Dental  Re- 
search), dental  patients  in  his  studies  re- 
ported greater  pain  when  they  got  nalox- 
one. But  so  did  patients  who  got  no 
placebo. 

In  their  still-unpublished  experiment, 
the  results  of  which  were  presented  to  the 
annual  meeting  of  the  Society  for  Neu- 
roscience  last  November,  Dubner,  re- 
search psychologist  Richard  Gracely,  and 
their  colleagues,  established  a  "no-treat- 
ment" group  that  got  neither  pain-killer 
nor  naloxone.  Yet  the  pain  level  in  this 
group  shot  up  the  same  amount  when  it 
got  naloxone  as  did  the  placebo  group's 
pain.  In  other  words,  the  results  can  be 
explained  without  the  placebo.  Perhaps, 
says  Dubner,  it  was  simply  "the  stress  of 


surgery"  that  activated  the  endorphin  sys- 
tem, not  the  placebo  at  all. 

But  the  endorphin  placebo  hypothesis 
is  by  no  means  a  closed  book.  "The  pla- 
cebo is  not  the  only  thing  in  the  world 
that  turns  on  the  endorphin  system,"  says 
Levine.  Why  should  the  pain  increase  in 
the  NIH  no-treatment  group  be  surpris- 
ing? His  group  is  repeating  the  experi- 
ment— with  a  no-treatment  group — but 
with  different  pain  levels.  He  hopes  to 
resolve  the  discrepancies  between  his 
group's  results  and  those  at  NIH. 

But  even  if  endorphins  or  related  mech- 
anisms should  come  to  explain  certain  as- 
pects of  placebo  action,  that  leaves  wide 
open  the  intriguing  fundamental  question 
of  how  symbolic  input — a  thought  or  an 
emotion — can  release  endorphins,  or  for 
that  matter  other  neurotransmitters.  Then, 
too,  the  endorphin  hypothesis  would  seem 
to  apply  only  to  the  placebo's  pain-killing 
powers,  not  to  its  capability  to  bring  relief 
in  other  ways.  So,  despite  the  promise  of 
the  endorphin  work,  a  neat  physiological 
explanation  for  the  placebo  effect  is  still 
a  long  way  off.  "Most  likely,"  as  Paul 
Talalay  says,  "the  placebo  effect  is  like 
cancer — a  whole  series  of  different  things 
that  operate  through  a  variety  of  different 
mechanisms." 

^V  fterword:  A  few  years  ago,  the 
/  \  Journal  of  the  American  Medical 
JL  JLAssociation  reprinted  an  old  piece 
from  its  June  23,  1900  issue  in  which  one 
W.  W.  Keen,  MD,  LLD,  outlined  what 
he  saw  as  the  characteristics  of  "The  Ideal 
Physician."  At  times  of  "sickness  and 
weariness  and  woe,"  Keen  wrote  in  the 
overwrought  prose  of  that  era,  the  phy- 
sician is  a  welcome  visitor  indeed:  "Then 
can  his  gentle  touch  give  assurance;  then 
can  his  sympathetic  voice  bring  hope;  then 
can  the  thousand  and  one  acts  of  thought- 
ful kindness  bind  to  him  for  life  the  anx- 
ious hearts  looking  to  him  as  the  messen- 
ger of  life.  Even  in  the  daily  routine  of  a 
hospital  clinic,"  he  wrote  in  the  first  year 
of  the  twentieth  century,  "a  kind  word  is 
often  better  than  any  medicine." 


XVI        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ALUMNI  PROFILES 


Steve  Donahue,  79: 

45  Years  of  Service  to  His  Alma  Mater 


Stephen  D.  Donahue,  '29,  retired 
recently — for  the  third  time — from 
a  temporary  job  he  took  45  years 
ago.  That's  how  long  Steve  served  as  man- 
ager of  the  WPI  news  bureau. 

Steve's  plans  for  a  career  in  chemical 
engineering  were  dashed,  as  were  the  plans 
of  many,  in  the  Great  Depression.  Luck- 
ier than  many  in  those  days,  Steve  did  find 
a  job  working  as  a  reporter  for  the 
Worcester  Evening  Gazette.  When  the  late 
Alumni  Secretary  Herbert  F.  Taylor  be- 
gan thinking  about  establishing  a  WPI  news 
bureau  in  1938,  Steve  was  the  person  he 
turned  to  for  advice  on  how  it  should  be 
done. 

Then  he  asked  Steve  if  he  would  be 
willing  to  act  as  manager  until  someone 
could  be  found.  When  no  suitable  can- 
didate was  found,  Taylor  convinced  Steve 
to  take  the  job  on  a  permanent  basis. 

Steve  had  been  on  the  job  but  a  few 
days  when  the  infamous  1938  hurricane 
swept  unannounced  through  New  Eng- 
land. In  its  rampage,  the  storm  toppled 
scores  of  shade  trees  which  had  lined  the 
campus  walks.  Steve  had  pictures  taken 
of  WPI's  football  team  in  their  practice 
uniforms  getting  into  shape  for  the  season 
by  cutting  up  the  downed  trees.  These 
pictures  were  published  all  over  the  coun- 
try. If  there  had  ever  been  any  doubt  about 
what  an  alert  newsman  could  do  for  WPI, 
Steve's  work  squelched  it. 

From  the  beginning,  he  established  def- 
inite standards  for  WPI  news  releases.  They 
had  to  be  accurate  and  timely,  sent  to  all 
interested  news  media,  and  written  in  the 
accepted  style  of  the  intended  audience. 
He  never  deviated  from  these  standards. 
As  a  result,  WPI  began  to  achieve  greater 
recognition  throughout  the  region. 

The  initial  success  of  the  WPI  news  bu- 
reau, the  first  in  the  city,  soon  brought 
inquiries  from  Holy  Cross  and  Clark  Uni- 
versity. In  typical  Steve  Donahue  style, 
he  shared  his  experiences  with  those  picked 
to  start  news  bureaus  across  town.  Be- 
cause Steve  and  his  early  colleagues  set 
and  maintained  high  standards,  today's 


Donahue:  Worcester's  first  public 
relations  professional. 

relationships  between  the  educational  in- 
stitutions and  the  local  news  media  are 
probably  second  to  no  other  college  com- 
munity's in  the  country. 

During  World  War  II,  Steve  accepted 
a  commission  in  the  Army  Air  Corps  and 
served  nearly  four  years  as  a  public  re- 
lations and  public  information  officer  with 
the  Second  Air  Force.  He  returned  home 
a  major  and  began  a  second  part-time  ca- 
reer as  an  Air  Force  Reserve  officer.  His 
old  job  as  a  reporter  was  not  waiting  for 
him  at  the  Gazette.  Instead,  the  news- 
paper promoted  him  to  city  editor.  He 
also  went  back  to  his  part-time  job  at  WPI's 
news  bureau. 

Part  of  his  Gazette  job  was  to  train  new 
reporters.  Many  Donahue-trained  news- 
men have  gone  on  to  some  of  the  nation's 
major  newspapers.  In  recalling  his  days 
as  a  fledgling  reporter,  for  example,  Ed- 
win Dale  of  the  New  York  Times  reflected 
on  his  fondest  memories  of  his  brief  stay 
in  Worcester,  "  .  .  .my  first  paycheck  .  .  . 
my  first  by-line  .  .  .  the  sheer  competence 
of  my  first  city  editor,  Steve  Donahue  of 
the  Evening  Gazette." 


Today,  whenever  I  meet  one  of  these 
news  writers  who  began  in  Worcester,  the 
first  question  is  "How's  Steve  Donahue?" 
I  know  what  a  great  teacher  he  was,  too, 
because  in  my  early  days  in  public  rela- 
tions at  Norton  Company,  Steve  would 
take  the  time  to  criticize  constructively 
the  releases  I  brought  in  for  publication. 
Little  did  I  know  then  that  Steve  and  I 
would  later  work  together  at  WPI  for  19 
years. 

In  1976,  the  Worcester  County  Public 
Relations  Association  honored  Steve  as 
Worcester's  first  public  relations  profes- 
sional. 

Steve  and  his  wife,  Frances,  have  two 
sons.  Steve,  Jr.,  known  at  home  as  "Jay," 
graduated  from  WPI  in  1963,  earned  a 
master's  degree  at  MIT  and  has  been  a 
Procter  &  Gamble  executive  for  many 
years.  Michael  is  a  Holy  Cross  graduate 
who  earned  his  doctorate  at  Boston  Uni- 
versity and  is  now  at  Brandeis  University 
as  a  member  of  the  counselling  staff. 

Steve  is  an  expert  on  classical  jazz.  His 
collection  of  old  records  includes  those  of 
many  of  the  musical  greats  of  an  earlier 
time. 

Steve  retired  for  the  first  time  in  the 
mid-sixties  as  a  reserve  officer.  He  retired 
as  a  colonel  in  the  Air  Force,  a  rank  few 
reservists  ever  achieve.  He  retired  the 
second  time  in  1973  from  the  Evening  Ga- 
zette. 

When  Steve  passed  WPI's  normal  re- 
tirement age,  he  stayed  on  as  a  consul- 
tant, and  his  daily  schedule  never  changed, 
nor  did  the  fine  work  he  produced. 

Steve  types  newspaper  style — with  two 
fingers.  That's  how  he  produced  between 
two  and  three  hundred  news  releases  for 
WPI  each  year.  Those  two  fingers  pro- 
vided a  chronological  history  of  the  im- 
portant events  at  this  college  for  45  years, 
a  contribution  of  unparalleled  value, 
matched  only  by  his  professionalism  and 
his  dedication  to  his  alma  mater. 

By  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr. ,  '45 
Director  of  Public  Relations 


AUGUST  1983 


29 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President.  Harry  \V.  Tenney.  Jr  .  '56 
Senior  Vice  President.  Donald  E.  Ross.  '54 
Vice  President.  Paul  W.  Bayliss.  *60 
Secretary-Treasurer.  Stephen  J.  Hebert.  '66 
Past  President.  Peter  H.  Horstmann.  '55 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large 
HenrvP.  Allessio.  '61:  Walter  J.  Bank.  '46: 
William  J.  Firla.  Jr..  '60:  John  M.  McHugh.'56. 

Alumni  Fund  Board 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin.  Jr..  '56:  Richard  A. 
Davis.  '53:  Gerald  T.  Dyer.  '56;  Gerald 
Finkle.  '57:  Allen  H.  Levesque.  '59:  C. 
John  Lindegren.  "39:  Philip  H.  Pudding- 
ton.  '59;  Georee  P.  Strom.  '56. 


1916 


A  profile  of  Carroll  Merriam  of  Waterville. 
ME.  appeared  in  the  December  issue  of  the 
.-\C5.W  Bulletin.  Mr.  Merriam  is  a  past  presi- 
dent and  honorary  member  of  ACSM.  Last 
August  he  served  as  advisor  to  TV's  "Good 
Morning  America"  on  the  segment  titled 
"Where  Does  the  Sun  First  Touch  the  United 
States?" 


1917 


Herb  Kelly.  87.  is  the  oldest  active  player  at 
the  Redland  Golf  and  Country  Club  in  Home- 
stead. FL.  Last  year  his  game  was  in  the  low 
90s.  and  this  vear  he  still  breaks  100. 


1921 


The  Robert  Chapmans  enjoyed  spending  the 
winter  in  Sarasota.  FL.  Not  only  do  they  have 
three  grandchildren  at  WPI.  their  granddaugh- 
ter Susan  is  coordinator  of  women's  athletics. 


1924 


Since  retiring  from  New  England  Power  Co.. 
Shelburne  Falls.  MA.  in  1966.  Harry  Hurd  has 
become  a  lapidary.  He  enjoys  cutting,  grinding 
and  polishing  semiprecious  stones,  and  setting 
them  in  pins  and  lockets. 


1930 


Roscoe  Bowers  writes  that  he  and  Ruth  have 
moved  from  Clearwater.  FL.  to  363  Longwood 
Drive.  Venice.  FL.  Ros.  has  been  playing  some 
golf  and  making  bookcases  at  home,  and  he  is 
looking  forward  to  a  possible  trip  to  New  Eng- 
land this  fall. 

A  photo  of  Ed  Delano  taken  before  the  start 
of  last  year's  Veterans  World  Cup  bicycle  race 
in  Austria  was  featured  in  the  April  issue  of 
the  AARP  Sews  Bulletin.  This  year  Ed  plans 
to  enter  several  U.S.  races.  The  two  Delano 
daughters  are  teachers.  Son  Ed.  also  a  racing 
cyclist,  is  a  supervising  highway  construction 
engineer  for  the  state  of  California. 

Charlie  Fay,  a  patent  attorney,  has  closed 
his  Worcester  office  and  is  currently  operating 
from  his  home  in  Sterling.  MA.  His  son.  Dick, 
a  professor  at  Loyola,  is  a  co-author  of  Hot 
Dog  Chicago,  a  paperback  book  describing  150 


fast-food  places  in  the  Chicago  area. 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Christos  Orphanides  cele- 
brated their  50th  wedding  anniversary  in  Feb- 
ruary at  a  party  hosted  by  their  son  and  daugh- 
ter in  New  London,  CT.  Both  came  to  the  U.S. 
from  Greece  in  the  1920s.  She  attended  Welles- 
ley  College.  During  World  War  II.  Orphanides 
served  as  a  lieutenant  commander  with  the  Navy 
Air  Corps.  He  retired  in  1974  from  Enterprise 
Electric  Co.,  a  company  he  founded  in  1945. 

Don  Simonds,  who  retired  as  vice  president 
from  Beloit  (WI)  Corp.  in  1974.  currently  serves 
on  the  board  of  the  Sigurd  Olson  Environ- 
mental Institute  at  Northland  College.  He  is 
concerned  with  Department  of  Natural  Re- 
sources activities  as  they  affect  fishing.  The  Si- 
mondses  recently  celebrated  their  46th  wed- 
ding anniversary. 

Charlie  Wright  says  that  his  only  complaint 
is  that  he  and  Alice  don't  see  as  much  of  their 
grandchildren  as  they'd  like.  They  have  three 
grandsons  and  two  granddaughters. 


50th  Reunion  of  WPI  33 

The  class  of  '33  came  back  for  its  50th  in  force, 
and  each  of  us  was  provided  with  a  full  measure 
of  enjoyment  at  a  SUPER  reunion. 

Thursday  evening  we  enjoyed  the  warm  hos- 
pitality of  President  Ed  and  Virginia  Cranch 
for  a  most  enjoyable  reception  at  their  lovely 
home,  followed  by  a  roast  beef  dinner  at  the 
Higgins  House.  There  our  "Prexy"  told  us  of 
WPI's  plans  for  the  future  and  then  touched 
upon  the  past  by  awarding  each  of  us  a  ■di- 
ploma" for  50  years  of  service  and  loyalty  to 
our  Alma  Mater.  Returning  to  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  Inn.  we  found  Room  224  a  place  of 
warm  hospitality  and  we  renewed  friendships. 

Friday  was  a  day  for  many  and  varied  activ- 
ities, both  on  and  away  from  campus.  We  had 
fifteen  golfers  on — and  off — the  fairways  of  the 
Worcester  Country  Club.  A  special,  eye-open- 
ing campus  tour  was  conducted  by  Alumni  Sec- 
retary Steve  Hebert.  and  classmates  who  had 
not  been  back  to  WPI  for  some  time  were 
amazed  to  find  the  significant  changes  that  had 
taken  place. 

By  late  afternoon  we  were  reassembling  in 
our  Hospitality  Room,  keeping  our  bartenders 
John  Dwyer.  Bob  Ferguson  and  Warren  Salt- 
marsh  busy.  Then  came  the  BIG  BANQUET, 
a  lively  and  colorful  affair,  much  of  which  was 
recorded  by  our  "unofficial"  photographer. 
Norm  Clark.  Jerry  Vails  excellent  toastmas- 
tering  enhanced  the  program,  highlighted  by 
special  guest  Professor  Art  Gerstenfeld.  who 
told  us  about  automation  and  its  effect  on  so- 


ciety. Later,  many  of  us  took  the  microphone 
to  offer  anecdotes  of  our  student  days  at  Tech. 

Sumner  Sweetser  presided  over  an  election 
of  the  following  officers:  George  Lyman.  Pres- 
ident: Ed  Johnson.  Vice  President;  Al  Brown- 
lee,  Secretary:  and  Tom  Decker.  Auditor. 
Continuing  in  office  are:  Ed  Allen.  Treasurer: 
and  Bill  Anderson.  Historian. 

Saturday  found  us  taking  part  in  activities  on 
campus,  including  a  meeting  of  50  Year  As- 
sociates. Then,  preceded  by  music  from  the 
Bagpipe  Band,  we  enjoyed  the  biggest-ever 
Annual  Reunion  Luncheon  in  Harrington  au- 
ditorium. Our  class  won  the  Class  of  '17  Cup 
for  the  largest  percentage  of  living  members 
present,  accepted  by  Reunion  Chairman  George 
Lyman.  Ed  Johnson  presented  President  Cranch 
with  our  class  gift,  which  comprised  the  gen- 
erosity of  81  percent  of  our  class  members.  The 
donation  is  represented  by  a  large  classroom 
and  adjacent  conference  room  in  the  renovated 
Washburn  Shops. 

With  the  luncheon  over,  our  class  said  their 
good-byes  and  prepared  to  leave  for  home.  We 
had  ample  reason  to  reflect  and  to  be  proud. 
Most  of  us,  graduating  in  the  depths  of  the 
Great  Depression,  could  make  only  slow  and 
modest  starts,  but  we  subsequently  ended  up 
with  astonishingly  diverse,  yet  meaningful  and 
productive  careers.  As  classmates  from  '33.  we 
can  truly  say  that  we  "earned  our  living"  all 
the  way — and  had  a  lot  of  fun  in  the  process. 
Al  Brownlee,  Class  Secretary- 


30        WPI   JOURNAL 


Dan  O'Grady  and  Carl  Backstrom  are  plan- 
ning a  Class  of  1930  golf  tournament  in  the  fall, 
probably  at  the  Woods  Hole  Country  Club  on 
the  Cape.  Anybody  care  to  join  us? 

Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Class  Secretary 


1931 


Elsie  and  Richard  Fairbanks  celebrated  their 
50th  wedding  anniversary  at  the  family  home 
in  Rutland,  MA,  on  January  1.  A  former  nurse, 
she  graduated  from  Hahnemann  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing,  Worcester.  Before  his  retirement, 
Fairbanks  was  an  aeronautical  expert  with  the 
federal  government. 


1932 


Dr.  Fred  Bickford  has  been  named  the  1983 
Eugene  C.  Sullivan  Award  recipient.  The  award, 
established  by  the  Corning  Section  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society,  recognizes,  among 
other  things,  meritorious  achievement  in  re- 
search. Dr.  Bickford  is  credited  with  key  de- 
velopment work  on  the  fused-silica  process  that 
has  produced  mirrors  for  space  and  has  become 
the  cornerstone  of  optical  waveguide  technol- 
ogy. He  retired  in  1974  as  manager  of  specialty 
ceramics  research  in  Coming's  Research  and 
Development  Division. 


1934 


John  Birch,  who  had  been  hospitalized  follow- 
ing a  heart  attack,  now  serves  as  a  photogra- 
pher for  the  Sunny  Hills  (FL)  Fire  Department, 
which  he  founded.  A  volunteer  in  six  organi- 
zations, he  also  helped  set  up  the  local  Pres- 
byterian Church. 

Bill  Burpee  writes  that  since  retiring  from  the 
Badger  Co.  in  1979,  he  has  been  spending  sum- 
mers gardening  and  golfing  in  Reading,  MA, 
and  winters  golfing  and  loafing  in  Naples,  FL. 

Last  April  Carl  Hammarstrom  presented  a 
paper  on  Improving  Right-of-Way  Surveys  and 
Records  at  the  ASCE  Specialty  Conference  in 
San  Antonio.  The  National  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Surveyors  (NSPS)  honored  Carl  for  his 
contributions  as  area  director  at  the  1983  con- 
vention of  NSPS  in  Washington,  DC. 

Ray  Sjostedt,  after  leaving  plastics  and  Civil 
Preparedness  for  the  state  of  Connecticut,  got 
involved  in  Advertising  Specialties  part  time. 
He  and  Peg  spent  the  last  two  winters  in  New 
Mexico,  where  Ray  took  lessons  in  painting 
from  a  University  of  New  Mexico  art  teacher. 
"Looking  forward  to  our  50th!" 

Everett  Sellew  serves  as  treasurer  of  his  church 
and  of  the  local  branch  of  the  American  Red 
Cross.  Recently  he  took  up  golf,  but  his  fa- 
vorite activity  is  working  in  the  yard. 

Howard  Whittum  is  doing  some  consulting 
work  and  research  on  crime  prevention  and 
aluminum  neurotoxicity.  He  recently  finished 
his  second  year  as  president  of  the  Tech  Old- 
Timers  Club.  "Come  and  visit  us  when  you're 
in  Worcester.  We  meet  the  second  Thursday 
of  the  month,  September  through  May,  at  9:30 
a.m.  in  WPI's  Gordon  Library." 

Howard  A.  Whittum,  Class  Secretary 


40th  Reunion  of  WPr43 

Who  says  you  can't  turn  back  the  clock?  Not 
the  29  couples  and  seven  singles  who  came  back 
for  our  40th  reunion.  The  air  was  full  of  fond 
memories  for  three  days  as  65  people  thor- 
oughly enjoyed  the  festivities. 

The  events  started  at  Friday  evening's  re- 
ception at  the  home  of  President  Edmund  and 
Virginia  Cranch.  who  welcomed  us  back  to  the 
campus.  Then  it  was  on  to  the  Higgins  House 
for  a  good  old  New  England  clambake  with 
tasty  steamers  and  succulent  lobsters.  Then  off 
to  the  Goats  Head  Pub  in  the  old  Sanford  Riley 
Commons  Room  for  beer  and  dancing  to  a 
lively  banjo  band. 

Those  who  stayed  at  the  Marriott  will  never 
forget  the  eight  to  ten  false  fire  alarms  which 
sounded  until  the  wee  hours  of  Friday  morning. 
Screaming  loudspeakers,  shrill  sirens  and  roar- 
ing fire  trucks  kept  us  hopping. 

Our  hospitality  suite  at  the  Marriott  almost 
never  stopped  entertaining.  Friends  came  and 
went — but  mostly  stayed  and  kept  the  conver- 
sation full  of  "remember  whens."  We  were  in- 
deed fortunate  to  have  Mai  and  Helen  Walker 
as  host  and  hostess,  for  they  arranged  a  well- 
stocked  facility  and  saw  that  it  operated  prop- 
erly as  the  focal  point  of  our  activities. 


At  the  Reunion  Luncheon  on  Saturday  our 
Gift  Chairman  Pete  Lindsay  requested  that  our 
bountiful  gift  be  used  to  refurbish  some  part 
of  the  Washburn  Shops,  which  are  now 
undergoing  complete  refurbishing  and  expan- 
sion. We  were  also  proud  to  observe  that  three 
of  the  five  award  recipients  were  from  '43.  Bai- 
ley Norton  and  Earl  Page  each  received  a  God- 
dard  Award  for  excellence  in  professional 
achievement  and  Ed  Campbell  received  the 
Taylor  Award  for  distinguished  service  to  WPI. 

The  Tatnuck  Country  Club  was  a  beautiful 
setting  for  cocktails,  dinner  and  dancing  on  Sat- 
urday evening.  Jim  Donahue,  '44,  Trustee  of 
the  college,  was  our  guest  and  speaker.  In  his 
inimitable  style  he  gave  us  one  belly  laugh  after 
another  with  his  stories  and  community  sing- 
ing. 

Sunday  morning  and  continental  breakfast 
at  the  Marriott  hospitality  area  arrived  all  too 
soon.  With  much  hugging  and  kissing  we  told 
our  final  stories,  showed  once  more  our  grand- 
children's pictures,  took  photos  and  said  our 
fond  farewells.  Our  sincere  thanks  go  to  Bob 
Bierweiler  and  his  Reunion  Committee,  for  36 
grads  and  29  wives  just  can't  wait  until  the  45th. 
Ed  Campbell,  Reunion  Secretary 


1935 


Wesley  Proctor,  formerly  of  Chatham,  MA, 
has  moved  to  Woodlawn  Lakes,  Lake  Drive, 
Palmetto,  FL. 


1936 


George  Rocheford  said  in  February,  "Am 
winding  up  my  last  year  as  head  agent  of  our 
class."  He  and  Laura  have  moved  from  South 
Natick.  Currently  thev  reside  at  39  Colton  Lane. 
Shrewsbury,  MA  01545. 


1938 


Last  year  Dr.  Gilbert  Ashwell,  chief  of  the  bio- 
chemistry laboratory  at  the  National  Institute 
of  Arthritis,  Bethesda,  MD,  received  a  foun- 
dation award  of  $15,000  for  "outstanding 
achievement  in  the  field  of  medical  science." 


1939 


Last  year  the  John  Peaveys  took  their  first  trip 
to  Europe  with  a  garden  group.  He  writes: 
"Enjoying  life  in  the  Blue  Ridge  Mts.  Growing 
azaleas  and  rhododendrons  from  seeds  and  cut- 
tings." 


1940 


Albert  Howell  has  retired  after  38  years  with 


Mack  Trucks.  He  worked  in  the  test  laboratory 
and  was  concerned  with  bus  design,  off-high- 
way design  and  chassis  design  analysis.  For  four 
years  he  was  also  associated  with  Chrysler's 
advance  engineering  department. 

Fritz  Johanson  retired  last  year  from  Warner 
&  Swasey  Co.,  Worcester. 

Norman  Laliberte.  now  retired  as  senior  re- 
search chemist  from  American  Optical  Co. 
(AO),  says  that  tennis  has  replaced  track  as 
his  current  activity.  At  AO  he  was  instrumental 
in  the  development  of  the  RX  plastic  lens. 


1941 


Sidney  Clark  has  retired  as  chief  engineer  with 
Aetna  Steel  Company  after  41  years  of  contin- 
uous service. 

Norman  Klaucke  writes  that  he  enjoys  win- 
ters on  Hutchinson  Island,  Jensen  Beach,  FL. 
"Fishing,  swimming  and  golfing  just  great." 


1942 


In  March  Rodney  Paige  retired  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  engineering  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  following 
32  years  of  service. 


1943 


The  director  of  pre-print  systems  for  the  Graphic 
Communications  Association  (GCA)  in  1976- 
77,  William  Tunnicliffe  was  recently  named  as 
vice  president  of  information  technologies  for 
the  firm.  One  of  his  responsibilities  is  further- 
ing the  development  of  GCA  GenCode. 


AUGUST  1983 


31 


1944 


Louis  Baldini.  a  registered  engineer,  holds  the 
post  of  vice  president  and  chief  design  engineer 
of  the  Electrical  Group  at  I.C.  Thomasson  & 
Associates,  Inc..  Consulting  Engineers,  in 
Tennessee.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1960.  follow- 
ing 16  years  with  Westinghouse.  the  Kellex 
Corporation  and  several  electrical  contracting 
firms. 


1945 


Dr.  Joseph  Carrabino  continues  as  a  faculty 
member  in  the  business  school  at  UCLA.  He 
also  does  consulting  work  with  Litton. 

Prof.  Owen  Kennedy  has  been  named  asso- 
ciate head  of  the  WPI  Electrical  Engineering 
Department. 

Dr.  Ernest  Kretzmer  now  works  for  ABI. 

Robert  Lotz  recently  retired  from  Printing 
Developments.  Inc.,  Springdale,  CT. 


1946 


George  Comstock  has  been  named  chairman  at 
Durango  Systems,  Inc. 

William  Grogan,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  at  WPI.  has  been  elected  a  fellow  by 
the  board  of  directors  of  IEEE. 

Carlton  Lutts  is  the  editor  of  The  Cabot  Mar- 
ket Letter,  which  is  published  in  Salem.  MA. 
The  publication  discusses  the  hottest  stocks  and 
gives  tips  on  when  to  buy  and  sell. 

Cecil  McCurry,  no  longer  with  Crown  Zel- 
lerbach.  is  now  self-employed  as  a  consultant 
to  the  pulp  and  paper  industry. 

Edward  Waranowicz  has  joined  the  archi- 
tectural engineering  firm  of  Hoyem-Basso  As- 
soc, Inc.,  Troy,  MI.  as  vice  president  and  di- 
rector of  mechanical  engineering.  Previously, 
he  was  deputy  group  leader  for  Bechtel  Power 
Group.  A  registered  professional  engineer,  he 
is  NCEE  certified,  as  well. 


1947 


Jack  Harding  holds  the  post  of  vice  president 
and  chief  scientist  at  Litton  Data  Systems  in 
Van  Nuys,  CA.  The  division  is  involved  in  a 
five-year  program  to  develop  state-of-the-art 
Very  Large  Scale  Integration  (VLSI)  technol- 
ogy- 


1948 


Charles  Jones  continues  as  president  of  NUS 
Corp.,  now  located  in  Gaithersburg,  MD. 

Louis  Katz  is  now  assigned  to  the  Nether- 
lands NATO  E-3A  (AWACS)  project. 

Lynwood  Lentell  retired  from  Caltrans  in  Julv 
of  1982. 

Jim  McKernan.  who  recently  left  Du  Pont 
after  33  years  of  service,  is  now  a  self-employed 
manufacturer's  representative  selling  steel 
drums,  plastic  drums  and  chemical  product 
containers. 


Herb  Slaughter 
Wins  Kolk  Award 

For  37  years,  Herbert  Slaughter,  Jr.,  '46, 
has  been  helping  to  make  America's  sky- 
ways safer.  Last  fall,  he  was  awarded  the 
prestigious  Franklin  W.  Kolk  Air  Trans- 
portation Progress  Award  for  his  out- 
standing contributions  in  the  field  of  air 
transportation.  The  award  was  presented 
at  the  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers 
(SAE)  Aerospace  Congress  &  Exposition 
held  in  Anaheim,  CA. 

A  manager  for  Sikorsky  Aircraft  in 
Stratford,  CT,  since  1976,  Slaughter  pre- 
viously had  been  with  the  Federal  Avia- 
tion Administration  (FAA)  for  27  years. 
During  that  period,  he  helped  develop 
safety  regulations  and  civil  certification 
policy  for  all  types  of  aircraft,  including 
helicopters,  jumbo  jets  and  the  SST.  He 
also  contributed  much  to  the  work  of  the 
SAE  aerospace  technical  committees  and 
to  the  Aerospace  Council. 

At  the  award  presentation  the  Society 
cited  Slaughter's  professional  advance- 
ment of  air  transportation  and,  particu- 
larly, his  concern  for  the  industry's  safety 
aspects. 

"Prior  to  joining  the  FAA."  Slaughter 
says,  "I  held  posts  with  Douglas  Aircraft 
and  Capital  Airlines.  I  started  out  as  a 
flight  test  engineer  with  the  FAA.  When 
I  left  in  1975 , 1  was  chief  of  all  engineering 
services  related  to  the  certification  and 
production  of  all  civil  aircraft,  as  well  as 
engines,  propellers  and  accessories." 

In  1973  Slaughter  represented  the  U.S. 
at  the  International  Civil  Aviation  Or- 
ganization, an  adjunct  of  the  UN.  where 


On  the  job  at  Sikorsky 

he  promoted  U.S.  safety  standards  as  an 
international  standard. 

Currently  Slaughter  is  manager  of  In- 
terfunctional  Product  Integrity  at  Sikor- 
sky, where  he  is  also  responsible  for  civil 
certification  and  quality  procedures.  He 
is  chairman  of  the  Product  Integrity 
Council. 

A  member  of  several  professional  so- 
cieties. Slaughter  has,  in  addition,  been 
active  with  his  local  Little  League  and  the 
YMCA.  He  belongs  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Skull 
and  Phi  Sigma  Kappa.  He  is  a  former  vice 
president  of  the  Washington  (DC)  chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 


1949 


Formerly  the  assistant  general  manager  for  en- 
gineering at  Electric  Boat  (EB).  Groton,  CT. 
John  Hunter  was  recently  named  to  the  new 
post  of  assistant  general  manager  for  special 
projects.  Hunter,  who  has  been  with  EB  for 
34  years,  belongs  to  the  Society  of  Naval  Ar- 
chitects and  Marine  Engineers  and  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Connecticut. 


1950 


Last  spring  photographer  "Hank"  Baker  and 
his  artist  wife,  Marie,  had  an  unusual  joint  art 
exhibit  at  the  Hudson  National  Bank  in  Acton. 
MA.  Last  year  Hank  retired  from  his  civilian 
job  with  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  after  a 
30-year  career  in  civil  engineering. 

Dan  Harrington's  company.  Sunnyside  Mo- 
tor Co.  of  Holden,  MA,  has  been  awarded  a 
distinguished  achievement  award  by  the  Ford 
Motor  Co.  for  the  31st  consecutive  year. 


Russ  Norris  wrote  "Weather-Proof  Surface 
Coatings."  which  appeared  in  the  January  issue 
of  Building  Operating  Management.  He  is  a 
partner  of  Brodsky  &  Norris,  Inc..  of  Ridge- 
wood.  NJ.  a  manufacturer's  representative  firm 
specializing  in  protective  coating  and  construc- 
tion products. 

Philip  Nyquist  is  a  consultant  on  industrial 
safety  and  special  projects  for  the  Saudi  Ara- 
bian Standards  Organization  in  Riyadh. 


1953 


Henry  Camosse,  his  parents  and  his  sister  toured 
Italy  last  summer,  visiting  Rome,  Pisa  and 
Venice.  He  continues  with  his  concrete  block 
and  masonry  supplies  business  in  Worcester. 
Henry  has  two  granddaughters  and  five  grand- 
sons and  wonders  if  that's  a  class  record. 

George  Crozier  has  been  named  a  vice  pres- 
ident by  Monsanto,  where  he  has  worked  since 
1956.  He  serves  as  president  of  Leonard  Con- 
struction Co.,  a  wholly  owned  subsidiary  of 
Monsanto  near  St.  Louis.  MO. 


32        WPI  JOURNAL 


Dick  Davis,  a  WPI  trustee  and  president  of 
CCi,  Inc..  spoke  on  the  topic  "Small  Com- 
puters— A  Big  Subject"  at  the  March  meeting 
of  the  Junior  Women's  Club  in  Waterford.  CT. 

Dr.  Charles  Dechand  continues  as  a  con- 
sulting physicist  at  Combustion  Engineering  in 
Windsor.  CT.  Two  of  the  Dechand  children 
are  now  in  college. 

David  Holmes  has  been  appointed  vice  pres- 
ident in  charge  of  operations  for  the  Perini  In- 
ternational Corporation  in  Framingham.  MA. 
Most  recently  he  served  as  project  manager  for 
a  Middle  East  air  base  construction  project. 

"Bud"  Madigan  is  still  the  CEO  of  Worces- 
ter's F.  W.  Madigan.  Inc.  He  is  president  of 
the  Worcester  General  Building  Contractors 
Association  and  a  member  of  the  Consulting 
Constructors'  Council  of  America.  In  his  spare 
time  he  continues  to  run  several  thousand  miles 
a  year. 

O.  B.  McKnight  continues  as  manager  of  do- 
mestic sales  at  Heald  in  Worcester.  He  also 
teaches  engineering  one  night  a  week  at  Cen- 
tral New  England  College. 

William  Mears  recently  received  a  Technical 
Board  Certificate  of  Appreciation  during  the 
1983  Honors  Convocation  of  the  Society  of  Au- 
tomotive Engineers  (SAE).  Bill,  who  is  with 
Mobil's  Automotive  Lab.,  has  made  outstand- 
ing contributions  to  the  SAE  Passenger  Car- 
Light  Truck  Fuel  Economy  Measurement 
Committee  through  his  research  on  chassis  dy- 
namometers. 

Ray  Peterson,  chief  engineer  for  American 
Shoe  Machinery  in  Woburn,  MA,  has  been 
named  associate  editor  of  the  "Puzzle  Korner" 
of  the  New  England  Engineering  Journal.  He 
is  a  registered  professional  engineer,  belongs 
to  ASME  and  the  Massachusetts  Safety  Coun- 
cil, and  has  an  MSME  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity. 

Paul  Snyder  holds  a  new  Mobil  post  as  man- 
ager of  the  refinery  technical  department  with 
the  Saudi  Ministry  of  Petroleum  and  Minerals 
in  Yanbu.  Saudi  Arabia.  He  is  involved  in  the 
start-up  of  an  export  refinery,  which  is  being 
carried  out  under  a  50-50  Mobil  and  Saudi  part- 
nership. 

"Stan"  Stanton  is  with  Scientific  Atlanta  in 
Phoenix,  AZ.  He  has  an  accounting  degree 
from  Arizona  State. 

David  Van  Covern  is  president  of  his  own 
firm.  Carolina  Industrial  Equipment,  Inc.,  in 
Charlotte,  NC.  The  company  is  basically  a 
manufacturer's  representative  for  industrial 
plant  vehicles  and  sweepers,  although  it  does 
sell  and  service  some  products. 

Seymour  Vershon,  formerly  with  Tenneco 
Chemicals,  Inc.,  has  been  named  director  of 
finance  by  Gov.  John  Sununu  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. He  has  an  MBA  from  the  Wharton  School 
of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

David  S.  Jennex,  Class  Secretary 


1954 


Bill  Hills  is  a  VITA  volunteer  and  lectures  at 
local  colleges  on  textile  fibers  and  the  engi- 
neering profession.  His  business.  Hills  R&D, 
Inc.,  in  Melbourne.  FL.  manufactures  syn- 
thetic fiber  extruding  machinery. 

John  Malloy,  Jr.,  town  administrator  of 
Westfield,  NJ,  for  the  past  13  years,  has  re- 
ceived an  award  for  career  excellence  given 


annually  by  the  New  Jersey  Municipal  Man- 
agement Association. 

Milton  Meckler  of  the  Meckler  Group.  En- 
cino.  CA.  has  been  serving  as  adjunct  professor 
of  mechanical  and  chemical  engineering  at  Cal- 
ifornia State  University  at  Northridge.  In  Feb- 
ruary he  delivered  a  paper  at  the  International 
Daylighting  Conference  in  Phoenix,  and  he  was 
recently  elected  vice  president  of  the  Encino 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  is  listed  in  the  fifth 
edition  of  Who's  Who  in  Engineering. 

Ed  Power,  who  recently  returned  from  a 
family  reunion  in  France,  is  manager  of  Gen- 
eral Foods'  Guadala  Harry's  restaurant  chain. 

Frank  Rybak  of  Artek  Associates  (consult- 
ing and  design  of  opto-electronic  systems)  in 
Glen  Arm.  MD.  says  his  firm  is  involved  with 
microprocessors  in  products  for  traffic  control 
and  architectural  use. 

Roger  Wildt  has  been  named  assistant  man- 
ager of  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation's  sales 
engineering  division  for  the  steel  group.  Pre- 
viously he  was  project  manager  of  the  division. 
Before  joining  Bethlehem  in  1960.  he  was  an 
associate  professor  of  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 
Roger  R.  Osell,  Class  Secretary 


25th  Reunion  of  WPI '58 

58  IS  GREAT  was  our  motto  for  the  week- 
end— and  it  was!  From  the  early  comers' 
Thursday  night  return  to  the  old  Boynton  Cafe 
to  the  last  cups  of  coffee  that  we  wearily  shared 
at  the  Sunday  brunch,  we  had  a  wonderful  time. 

We  read  eagerly  of  our  classmates'  accom- 
plishments in  the  yearbook  Jim  Demetry  had 
prepared.  And  once  caught  up,  we  were  off 
and  running.  We  duffers  lifted  the  turf  at 
Worcester  Country  Club.  We  all  viewed  our 
own  Bill  Rabinovitch's  exhibit  of  his  expres- 
sionist paintings  at  Gordon  Library,  hiked 
around  the  campus,  learned  at  mini-seminars, 
antiqued,  went  landmark  hunting  and  couldn't 
find  the  Valhalla — but  all  spent  and  spent  at 
Spags.  danced,  ate.  sang,  and  toasted  ourselves 
at  every  possible  opportunity. 

However,  we  were  not  on  our  dignity  all  the 
time — a  bit  noisy  perhaps  at  the  Alumni 
Luncheon.  But  we  were  forgiven  our  fun  as  we 
rang  bells  for  ourselves  when  Dave  Crimmins 
announced  1958's  impressive  gift  to  the  col- 
lege. We  were  proud  of  our  ability  to  be  so 
generous. 

Track  coach  Merle  Norcross.  Dean  Bill  Gro- 
gan  and  Professor  Bob  Wagner  joined  us  at 
our  Saturday  evening  banquet.  The  festivities 
produced  a  few  surprises  from  MC  Howie 
Painter  and  his  henchmen,  particularly  from 
one  Mike  "we'll  follow  you  anywhere"  Gut- 
man.  The  devilment  went  on  and  on;  no  one 
was  spared.  Clearly,  the  evening  was  on  its  way 
again.  Back  home  we  went  to  Boynton  Hill  on 
one  of  the  best  bus  rides  ever,  inspired  to  stay 
up  all  night. 

We  abandoned  our  hospitality  suite  at  3:30 
Sunday  morning.  And  with  our  amiable  hosts 
Dave  "Max"  Denniston  and  Stan  Graveline, 
we  rolled  down  the  hill  for  our  last  night  in 
the  dorm. 

We  kissed,  hugged  and  back-slapped  our 
good-byes  at  Sunday  brunch.  Our  25th  reunion 
was  history.  We  made  it! 

Robert  J.  Bovea,  Reunion  Chairman 


1955 


Brian  Kelly,  vice  president  of  marketing  for 
Bell  Telephone  Company  of  Pennsylvania,  has 
just  been  assigned  the  additional  duties  of  vice 
president  of  operations.  In  his  new  post,  he 
will  direct  more  than  18,000  employees.  He 
also  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of  trustees 
of  Hahnemann  University  in  Philadelphia. 


1956 


Chris  Baehrecke  won  a  two-year  selectman's 
seat  in  the  Paxton.  MA.  town  election  in  May. 
A  former  town  assessor.  Chris  is  president  of 
R.  L.  Whipple  Co.,  Inc..  Worcester. 

Robert  Farrar  was  recently  elected  chairman 
of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Keene  (NH) 
Co-operative  Bank.  Past  president  of  the  local 
Rotary  Club,  former  church  deacon,  incorpo- 
rator of  Cheshire  Hospital  and  past  member  of 
the  Keene  Board  of  Education.  Farrar  serves 
as  president  of  Frederick  A.  Farrar.  Inc.,  and 
Farrar  Engineering. 

After  20  years  with  Foxboro  Co..  Joe  Pa- 
parella  is  now  vice  president  of  international 
operations  at  Jamesbury  in  Worcester.  The 
youngest  of  his  three  children.  David,  is  in  the 
Class  of  1986  at  WPI. 

The  Rev.  Paul  Schoonmaker  was  a  member 
of  a  group  slated  to  visit  Russia  in  May  for  the 
purpose  of  establishing  closer  ties  with  Russia's 
5  million  Baptists. 


1957 


Neil  Armstrong  is  assistant  purchasing  agent  at 
the  Lane  Construction  Corp.  in  Meriden,  CT. 


1958 


Frank  DeFalco.  professor  of  civil  engineering 
at  WPI,  was  named  to  the  Worcester  City  Plan- 
ning Board.  He  is  president  of  DeFalco  En- 
gineering Associates,  Inc.,  and  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  land  surveyor.  Be- 
sides two  degrees  from  WPI,  he  holds  a  doc- 
torate in  structural  engineering  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut.  This  year  he  was  captain 
of  the  "Friends  of  WPI"  squash  team,  which 
won  the  "C"  League  Massachusetts  Squash 
Racquets  Association  State  Championship. 

Anthony  DiGiovanni  was  recently  named  vice 
president  of  distribution  and  engineering  at 
Boston  Gas.  He  is  responsible  for  the  instal- 
lation and  maintenance  of  the  firm's  under- 
ground facilities  and  piping,  as  well  as  the 
administration  of  the  engineering  department. 

William  Wesolowski  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  the  Thin  FilnvPCB  Section  in  the  Mi- 
croelectronics Department  at  Raytheon  Com- 
pany in  Sudbury,  MA. 


1959 


Frederick  Costello  has  been  named  vice  pres- 
ident of  Union  Carbide  Eastern,  Inc.,  a  sub- 


AUGUST  1983 


33 


sidiary  of  Union  Carbide  Corporation.  He  will 
have  charge  of  the  firm's  chemicals  and  plastics 
sales  and  marketing  activities  throughout 
Southeast  Asia  and  will  be  based  in  Hong  Kong. 

While  restoring  his  1815  farmhouse  in  Amos- 
town,  MA,  F.  Bernard  Lally's  interest  in  early 
history  and  Indian  lore  led  him  to  write  an 
update  of  local  area  history,  sections  of  which 
have  been  appearing  in  a  West  Springfield 
newspaper.  Helping  Dad  with  the  farmhouse 
restoration  are  sons  John,  '84,  and  Michael, 
'86.  Lally  teaches  physics  at  Chicopee  High 
School. 

Morgan  Whitney  is  plant  manager  of  the 
Electronics  Division  at  Ford  Aerospace  & 
Communications  Corporation  in  Lansdale.  PA. 


1960 


George  Cadwell,  Jr.,  wrote  "Understanding 
HEPA  Filtration."  which  appeared  in  the  Jan- 
uary issue  of  MD&DI.  He  is  vice  president  of 
Flanders  Filters,  Washington,  NC. 

In  January  Larry  Cohen  retired  from  engi- 
neering and  law.  Next  year  he  and  his  wife. 
Linda,  a  clinical  psychologist,  plan  to  go  to 
Israel. 

In  December  Robert  Mulholland,  Jr.,  was 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  colonel  in  the  U.S. 
Army.  He  is  deputy  director  for  procurement 
and  production  at  CECOM  in  Ft.  Monmouth. 
NJ. 

Ronald  Vieraitis,  still  employed  by  Lock- 
heed Missiles  and  Space  Co..  is  now  a  super- 
visor of  the  svstems  effectiveness  group  in  Aus- 
tin, TX. 

Peter  Zilko  has  been  named  director  of  mar- 
keting of  Eagle  Signal  Controls'  new  industrial 
business  unit  in  Austin,  TX.  The  unit  has  re- 
sponsibility for  all  Eagle  Signal  industrial  con- 
trol products. 


1961 


William  Calder,  manager  of  the  power  supply 
business  unit  for  the  Foxboro  (MA)  Company, 
edited  the  North  American  edition  of  Robin 
Garside's  Intrinsically  Safe  Instrumentation:  A 
Guide,  published  by  ISA  last  spring.  He  serves 
as  vice  president  of  ISA's  Standards  and  Prac- 
tices Department. 

Thomas  Maloney,  Jr.,  a  vice  president  of 
E.F.  Hutton  &  Co..  Inc.,  was  recently  named 
manager  of  the  firm's  Boston  office.  Previously 
he  was  manager  of  Hutton's  Burlington,  MA, 
office.  He  was  appointed  a  vice  president  in 
1981. 

William  Peirce  has  been  appointed  head  of 
the  newly  created  department  of  computer 
studies  at  Cape  Cod  Academy.  Osterville,  MA. 
He  has  an  MBA  from  Northeastern  Universitv. 


1962 


Jesse  Erlich  has  been  elected  president  of  the 
Boston  Patent  Law  Association  and  is  also 
serving  on  the  board  of  governors.  His  article, 
"Understanding  Patents  and  the  Patent  Sys- 
tem," appeared  in  the  January  issue  of  Optical 
Engineering. 


1963 


Dick  Dann,  staff  editor  of  Machine  Design,  won 
a  Certificate  of  Merit  in  the  1983  Jesse  H.  Neal 
Editorial  Achievement  Awards  Competition, 
sponsored  by  American  Business  Press.  His 
winning  nine-industry  series  of  articles  probed 
different  industries,  from  aerospace  to  recre- 
ational equipment. 


How  to  Heat  for  Free  — Well,  Almost! 


Cheap  energy!  If  a  genie  jumped  out  of 
its  bottle  and  offered  to  grant  three  of 
your  fondest  wishes,  low-cost  domestic 
energy  could  well  be  first  on  your  list.  If 
you've  totted  up  your  oil  bill  lately,  you 
know  that  it's  somewhere  just  this  side  of 
a  king's  (sheik's?)  ransom. 

Well,  you  don't  need  to  use  one  of  your 
wishes  to  save  on  energy  bills.  According 
to  Cap  Chenoweth.  '64.  almost  all  the  en- 
ergy you'll  ever  need  to  heat  or  cool  your 
home  is  right  in  the  ground  beneath  your 
house.  Says  Cap,  sole  proprietor  of  Sun- 
works  Construction  and  Engineering, 
Stowe,  VT,  "A  closed-loop,  ground-source 
heat  pump  can  harness  this  energy  and 
transfer  it  into  the  home  or  business  to 
provide  domestic  heating  and  hot  water 
needs  at  one-third  the  cost  of  conven- 
tional fuels." 

The  ground  naturally  stores  heat  ra- 
diated by  the  sun,  as  well  as  warm  rain  in 
the  spring,  summer  and  fall.  Using  a  heat 
pump,  this  stored  ground  energy  can  be 


extracted  and  then  boosted  to  higher  tem- 
peratures for  use  in  heating  systems. 

A  heat  pump  transfers  heat  from  one 
place  to  another.  The  largest  selling  model 
uses  4'/2  kilowatts  of  electricity  to  produce 
up  to  16  kilowatts  of  energy.  "Therefore, 
about  two-thirds  of  the  energy  used  for 
heat  and  hot  water,"  Chenoweth  ex- 
plains, "is  obtained  free." 

A  closed-loop  ground  extraction  sys- 
tem is  used  primarily  because  it  eliminates 
the  massive  amounts  of  water  needed  to 
be  pumped  and  then  discharged  by 
groundwater  heat  pumps. 

Chenoweth,  who  earned  both  his  BSME 
and  MSME  at  WPI,  has  worked  as  a  ma- 
rine scientist,  ocean  engineer  and  physics 
instructor.  Since  1977,  he  has  been  a  self- 
employed  contractor  specializing  in  the 
design  and  construction  of  solar-assisted 
homes  and  in  the  sale  and  installation  of 
solar  systems,  heat  pumps  and  micro- 
processor energy  management  control- 
lers. 


Charles  Elfreich  serves  as  town  engineer  in 
Mamaroneck.  NY.  One  of  his  innovations  has 
been  the  hiring  of  engineering  students  as  part- 
time  summer  help  to  log  progress  of  various 
construction  projects. 

Bob  Gowdy  is  now  chairman  of  physics  at 
Virginia  Commonwealth  University. 

Dennis  Heath  was  recently  promoted  to  sen- 
ior application  engineer  for  GE's  Distribution 
Equipment  Marketing  Operation. 

Robert  Magnant  is  technical  director  of  the 
Army's  Communications  Electronics  Engi- 
neering Installation  Agency  for  the  continental 
United  States.  He  was  a  recent  speaker  at  the 
Newport  (RI)  Naval  War  College. 

Edward  Platow  is  department  chief  of  com- 
puter education  at  Western  Electric  in  Hope- 
well, NJ. 

Jack  Slovak  was  co-author  of  "Tapping  the 
Reverse  Osmosis  Market."  which  appeared  in 
the  February  issue  of  Water  Conditioning.  He 
and  his  brother,  Robert,  are  principals  in  The 
Water  Factory,  a  marketer  of  reverse  osmosis 
purification  equipment  in  Costa  Mesa,  CA. 

Recently  Nishan  Teshoian  was  promoted  to 
vice  president  and  general  manager  of  Cooper 
Petroleum  Equipment,  a  division  of  Cooper 
Industries  in  Houston,  TX.  He  had  been  plant 
manager  of  the  firm's  pump  plant  division  in 
Quincy,  IL.  The  company  manufactures  mud 
pumps,  draw-works  and  swivels. 


1964 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Larry  Hull  their  third 
daughter,  Kateri  Elinor,  on  December  2,  1982. 

Dr.  Joe  LaCava  has  transferred  from  Bell 
Labs  to  the  new  AT&T  subsidiary.  American 
Bell.  He  says.  "My  children  have  led  me  into 
the  roles  of  Scout  leader  and  president  of  Youth 
Athletic  Leagues." 

Dr.  Al  Potvin  has  been  elected  president  of 
the  IEEE  Engineering  in  Medicine  and  Biol- 
ogy Society,  the  largest  of  the  professional  so- 
cieties for  biomedical  engineers.  Also,  he  has 
received  a  National  Institutes  for  Handicapped 
Research  (NIHR)  Rehabilitation  Engineering 
Center  grant  to  continue  his  development  of 
instrumented  techniques  for  assessing  function 
in  normal  and  physically  handicapped  individ- 
uals. Al  is  professor  and  chairman  of  biomed- 
ical engineering  at  the  University  of  Texas  at 
Arlington,  where  his  wife.  Jan.  is  director  of 
technical  writing. 

Eastman  Kodak  has  appointed  David  Wait 
as  "technical  associate  of  product  in  the  Film 
Technical  Services  Division."  Most  recently  he 
was  a  product  senior  engineer. 

Lt.  Col.  W.  Charles  Zisch  was  recently  named 
director  of  the  Air  Force  Electronic  Systems 
Division  program  to  modernize  Spain's  air  de- 
fense system.  Lt.  Col.  Zisch  is  responsible  for 
joint  U.S.  and  Spanish  efforts  in  upgrading  the 
countrv's  radar  and  communications  sites. 


1965 


Phil  Baker  has  joined  Atari.  Inc..  of  Sunny- 
vale. CA.  as  director  of  product  management 
in  the  new  Ataritel  Division.  Previously  he  held 
engineering  and  management  positions  with 
Polaroid. 


34        WPI  JOURNAL 


Don  Carlson  has  accepted  the  post  of  senior 
managing  director  of  NSK-Torrington  Co.  in 
Tokyo.  The  joint  venture  company  manufac- 
tures bearings  and  other  precision  compo- 
nents. "It's  a  homecoming,  since  it  will  be  our 
third  period  of  residence  in  Tokyo." 

Joe  Gracia  holds  the  post  of  product  man- 
ager at  Cornell  Dubilier  Electronics  in  New 
Bedford,  MA.  Married  and  the  father  of  three 
children,  Joe  enjoys  sailing. 

William  Hagar  continues  as  production  en- 
gineering supervisor  with  the  Davidson  Rub- 
ber Division  of  Excello  Corp.  in  Farmington, 
NH.  He  has  been  with  the  National  Ski  Patrol 
for  12  seasons. 

Ken  Hultgren  continues  in  London  as  man- 
ager of  engineering  for  GE's  international  me- 
chanical drive  steam  turbines,  for  the  Mechan- 
ical Drive  Turbine  Department  in  Fitchburg, 
MA.  Business  has  taken  him  to  China  and  Rus- 
sia. He  and  his  family  also  have  traveled 
throughout  Europe. 

Currently  Raymond  Jacques  is  project  man- 
ager for  New  England  nuclear  power  plants  at 
Combustion  Engineering,  Windsor,  CT.  The 
family  enjoys  tennis  on  their  backyard  court. 

Pat  Moran  was  chairman  for  the  Boxbor- 
ough  (MA)  Bicentennial  Parade  held  on  June 
25th.  He  has  also  made  several  contributions 
to  the  Boxborough  Bicentennial  book. 

John  Porter  is  on  active  duty  as  a  major  in 
the  U.S.  Army  Reserve  and  is  chief  of  the  Smoke 
Generator  Specialist  Branch  of  the  Directorate 
of  Training  Developments  at  the  Army  Tech- 
nical School,  Ft.  McClellan,  AL. 

B.  S.  Ramprasad  is  a  principal  scientific  of- 
ficer in  the  Central  Instruments  and  Services 
Laboratory  of  the  Indian  Institute  of  Science 
in  Bangalore,  India.  His  interests  are  in  hol- 
ographic interferometry  and  speckle  interfer- 
ometry  for  nondestructive  testing  and  flow 
measurement.  He  also  gives  laser  demonstra- 
tions and  lectures  in  schools  and  colleges.  His 
poetry,  which  is  based  on  science,  has  appeared 
in  the  Journal  of  the  Optical  Society  of  Amer- 
ica. 

Henry  Schneck  holds  the  post  of  principal 
civil  engineer  for  the  Suffolk  County  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Works.  He  and  his  family  have 
a  waterfront  home  on  the  south  shore  of  Long 
Island. 

Dr.  John  Wilson  continues  as  president  of 
Paul  J.  Ford  and  Co.,  Columbus,  OH,  a  struc- 
tural-design firm.  His  children  are  into  group 
swimming,  and  Wilson,  who  is  on  the  board  of 
the  Greater  Columbus  Swim  Team,  also  serves 
as  a  U.S.  swimming  official. 

John  P.  Jacobson,  Class  Secretary 


1966 


Phil  Hopkinson  is  manager  of  engineering  for 
specialty  transformers  at  GE  in  Ft.  Wayne.  IN. 
His  outside  interests  include  kayaking,  rocke- 
try and  swimming. 

Dr.  Robert  Lisauskas  recently  received  the 
Worcester  Engineering  Society  Scientific 
Achievement  Award. 

Marty  Mastroianni  is  president  of  Inland 
Vacuum  Jnd..  Inc..  "the  largest  manufacturer 
of  vacuum  pump  fluids  in  the  U.S." 

Mike  Portanova  celebrated  his  40th  birthday 
with  a  surprise  party  in  Concord,  MA,  at- 
tended by  many  old  friends,  notably:  Al  Gian- 


notti,  '65,  who  flew  in  from  Denver;  Jim  Fee, 
Paul  Giusti,  Pat  Moran  and  Bill  Shields.  Also: 
Stan  Szymanski,  '64,  who  made  the  trip  from 
Youngstown,  NY,  Duke  Gale  and  Walt  Lan- 
kau. 


1967 


Russell  Lukes  is  now  manager  of  computer  op- 
erations for  Management  Decision  Systems, 
Inc.,  Waltham,  MA. 


1968 


Reunion 


October  1,  1983 


Frank  Alberti  was  recently  promoted  to  asso- 
ciate professor  at  the  University  of  Lowell  in 
Massachusetts.  Formerly  an  assistant  professor 
of  mechanical  engineering,  Dr.  Alberti  re- 
ceived his  BS  from  Tufts,  his  MSCE  from  WPI, 
his  MSME  from  Northeastern  and  his  PhD  from 
the  University  of  New  Hampshire. 

Richard  Bernardo  is  director  of  the  high  school 
planetarium  in  Somerset,  MA. 

Richard  Broggi  is  project  manager  at  Robert 
J.  Baggett,  Jr.,  Inc.,  in  Mobile.  AL. 

Ed  Cannon  has  been  named  Northeast-8 
Conference  Coach  of  the  Year  after  leading 
Saint  Anselm's  soccer  squad  to  a  5-1-1  con- 
ference record  and  a  9-5-1  overall  mark.  (Saint 
Anselm  shared  the  conference  championship 
with  the  University  of  Hartford.)  Cannon,  a 
former  All-America  booter,  has  been  with  the 
college  for  eight  years. 

John  Cunic  continues  as  senior  staff  engineer 
with  Exxon  Research  and  Engineering  Com- 
pany in  Florham  Park.  NJ.  Currently  he  is  head 
of  the  Air  Environmental  Applications  Group, 
where  he  conducts  in-depth  screening  studies 
to  identify  the  types  of  air  pollution  control 
equipment  required  by  both  affiliate  and  licensee 
facilities.  He  has  been  involved  in  the  devel- 
opment of  the  Exxon  wet  gas  scrubbing  system 
for  the  petroleum  industry's  fluid  catalytic 
cracking  process. 

Jeff  Decker  has  been  named  president  of 
Shoemaker  Development  Corp..  Philadelphia, 
one  of  the  largest  construction  firms  in  the  Del- 
aware Valley.  He  is  responsible  for  identifying 
and  implementing  real  estate  investment  op- 
portunities. 

Richard  Dubsky  will  spend  the  next  aca- 
demic year  in  Israel  as  chairman  of  the  science 
department  at  the  Walworth  Barbour  Ameri- 
can International  School  in  Kfar  Shmaryahu. 
He  is  on  leave  as  chairman  of  the  mathematics 
department  at  St.  Albans  School  and  as  math- 
ematics instructor  at  the  University  of  Mary- 
land. 

Thomas  Fitzpatrick  has  been  appointed  di- 
rector of  vehicle  test  systems  at  RCA  Auto- 
mated Systems.  Norwood,  MA.  Last  year  he 
completed  the  Harvard  University  Program  for 
management  development. 

C.  David  Larson  has  been  appointed  inter- 
national maintenance  products  manager  at  A.  W. 
Chesterton  Company.  Stoneham,  MA.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  the  development  and  sup- 
port of  industrial  and  marine  maintenance 
products  and  systems  in  the  98  countries  in 
which  Chesterton  products  are  marketed. 


William  Poulin  has  been  promoted  to  re- 
quirements engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft Group.  He  manages  and  implements  mar- 
keting strategies  for  the  PW1120  engine. 

Terrence  Sullivan,  president  of  Boston  Bay 
Capital,  Inc.,  spoke  on  "Tax  Shelters"  at  a 
February  meeting  of  the  North  Shore  Chapter 
of  the  National  Association  of  Accountants  in 
Wakefield,  MA. 


1969 


John  Gavitt  writes:  "Am  on  my  way  to  Japan 
to  be  Sperry's  representative  at  the  U.S.  Navy 
Yard  in  Yokosuka." 

Since  December,  Gordon  Mears  has  been 
purchasing  manager  of  Metal  Bellows  Corp., 
Sharon,  MA. 

David  Pratt  is  director  of  systems  engineer- 
ing at  Computer  Design  and  Applications.  Inc.. 
in  Waltham,  MA.  The  company  makes  com- 
puter array  processors  and  medical-imaging 
systems.  Pratt  will  direct  all  software  and  hard- 
ware product  development. 

Albert  Shahnarian,  a  biomedical  engineer  at 
UMass  Medical  Center  in  Worcester,  has  re- 
ceived his  PhD  from  WPI. 

Robert  Simonds  writes:  "A  two-year-old  and 
infant  twins  are  keeping  me  busy  at  the  mo- 
ment." Simonds  is  now  vice  president  at  Hayes 
Pump  and  Machinery  Co.,  West  Concord,  MA. 

Francis  Skwira,  who  has  two  daughters,  was 
recently  promoted  to  director  of  industrial 
services  at  EBASCO  Services,  Inc. 


1970 


Lawrence  Cohen  now  has  the  title  vice  presi- 
dent-technical at  Cavedon  Chemical  Co., 
Woonsocket,  RI.  He  joined  Cavedon  in  1978 
as  director  of  research.  He  has  also  been  with 
Kendall  Company  and  Union  Carbide.  In  1982 
he  rejoined  Cavedon. 

Ed  Mason  was  slated  to  transfer  as  director 
of  logistics  with  Cummins  Engine  Company  to 
Sao  Paulo,  S.P.,  Brazil  in  June. 

Robert  Smialek  has  been  appointed  a  highly 
protected  risk  (HPR)  officer  by  the  Kemper 
Group.  He  joined  Kemper  in  Boston  in  1970. 
was  named  a  supervising  engineer  in  Chicago 
in  1973  and  became  manager  of  Kemper's  cen- 
tral division  HPR  department  in  1981.  Early 
last  year  he  was  transferred  to  Brussels,  Bel- 
gium, as  general  manager  and  executive  vice 
president  of  Kemper,  S.A. 


1971 


MARRIED:  John  Anderson  and  Patricia  Ram- 
sey on  March  26,  1983,  in  Painesville,  OH.  She 
graduated  from  Bowling  Green  State  Univer- 
sity and  is  a  teacher.  Anderson  is  with  Techni- 
care  in  Solon. 

Robert  der  Stein  has  been  named  vice  chair- 
man of  the  New  England  Power  Tools  Planning 
Committee.  An  employee  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Municipal  Wholesale  Electric  Co.  for  the 
past  seven  years,  der  Stein  is  the  first  employee 
of  a  municipal  organization  to  be  appointed  as 
an  officer  of  the  committee. 


AUGUST  1983        35 


Allen  Downs,  who  continues  with  Integral 
Data  Systems  (IDS)  in  Milford.  NH.  recently 
did  the  programming  for  a  color  graphics  proj- 
ect in  conjunction  with  the  introduction  of  the 
firm's  new  color  printer. 

Ed  Lowe  has  a  new  post  as  vice  president  of 
marketing  for  GE's  Environmental  Services  in 
Lebanon.  PA 

Stephen  Sergio  has  been  promoted  to  the 
rank  of  major  in  the  US.  Army  He  is  sta- 
tioned in  an  infantry  division  in  southern  Ger- 
many. 

Glenn  White  has  started  a  resident  research 
associateship  under  the  National  Research 
Council  at  NASA  Goddard  Space  Flight  Cen- 
ter. 


1972 


.\ LURRIED:  Gary  Rand  and  Anne  Lauria  in 
East  Boston.  MA  A  senior  software  engineer 
at  Nixdorf  Computer.  Burlington,  she  is  a  grad- 
uate of  Emmanuel  College.  He  serves  as  a 
project  engineer  at  Xylogjcs.  Inc. 

BORN:  to  Janice  and  Tim  Laskowski  a  son. 
Kenneth  Robert,  on  April  20.  1983.  Brother 
Craig  .Anthony  is  now  three. 

Michael  DiBenedetto  has  been  appointed  su- 
pervisor of  power  management  by  EUA  Ser- 
vice Corporation.  Lincoln.  RI.  He  will  be  re- 
sponsible for  power  contracting  and  billing, 
production  costing  and  power  systems  analysis. 
A  professional  engineer,  he  holds  both  a  BSEE 
and  an  MSEE  from  WPI 

Jim  Hargraves  has  left  Universal  Oil  Prod- 
ucts and  now  works  as  a  senior  instrument  and 
controls  engineer  in  the  polymer  chemical  plants 
at  C.P.I.  Plants.  Inc..  in  Southport.  CT. 

Howard  Levine  has  received  his  PhD  from 
Rutgers. 

Jeff  Petry  is  now  direct  district  manager  of 
the  Cleveland  office  of  Torrington  Co.  Besides 
keeping  up  with  their  four  children.  Mary  Bol- 
ino  Petry.  '74.  enjoys  racquetball  and  bowling. 

William  Singleton.  Jr..  recently  started  a 
management  consulting  company.  The  Com- 
pany Doctor  of  Uxbridge.  MA. 


1973 


Reunion 


October  1,  1983 


BORN:  to  Diane  and  Joe  Luszcz  a  third  son 
last  October.  Joe.  who  is  slated  to  receive  his 
MSEE  from  Northeastern  University  this  year, 
was  recently  promoted  to  project  manager  at 
Hewlett-Packard  in  Andover.  MA  .  .  to 
Cheryl  and  Stephen  Martin  a  son.  Benjamin 
Corey,  on  November  4.  1982.  Steve  is  in  his 
first  year  of  residency  in  ophthalmology  at  the 
University  of  Rochester  Strong  Memorial  Hos- 
pital Center.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs  K.  Stephen 
Williams  their  first  daughter.  Kathenne.  on 
October  12.  1982  Steve  still  works  as  plant 
manager  and  faculty  member  for  Sterling  In- 
stitute in  Craftsbury  Common.  VT. 

Last  year.  Conrad  Baranowski  became  man- 
ager of  Gould.  Inc..  Modicom  Division.  Power 
Conversion  Group.  The  Baranowskis  have  a 
year-old  daughter.  Diana  Lyn 

Richard  Brontoli  writes:  "Have  finished  grad 
school  at  the  Universitv  of  Florida  with  an  ME 


degree.  Now  I  am  stationed  at  the  Ft.  Knox 
area  engineer  office  in  Kentucky."' 

Jason  Burbank.  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer, is  with  Energy  Auditors  &.  Consultants. 
Inc..  Amherst.  MA 

After  nearly  ten  years  with  Teradyne.  Bill 
Carton  is  now  manager  of  system  test  and  field 
service  with  a  start-up  company.  Interactive 
Images,  in  Woburn.  MA.  The  company  is 
building  an  intelligent  graphics  work  station 
with  color  CRT  and  touch-sensitive  faceplate. 

Last  year  David  Cirka  received  his  master's 
degree  in  electric  power  engineering  from  RPI. 

Recently  Robert  Drake  was  named  sanitary 
engineer  for  the  Town  of  Framingham.  MA 
Formerly  president  of  Drake  Associates  of  Fra- 
mineham.  civil  engineers  and  land  survevors. 
he  has  an  MSCE  from  MIT. 

John  Kulig  manages  engineering  services  for 
the  steam  generation  business  unit  of  Babcock 
&l  Wilcox's  industrial  power  generation  divi- 
sion. He  joined  the  company  in  1973. 

Mark  Mooradian  runs  Coffee  Kingdom  on 
Richmond  Ave..  Worcester's  first  cafe  serving 
top-quality  coffees  and  teas.  He  has  an  MS  in 
counseling  from  Harvard. 

Charles  Pritchard.  no  longer  with  Mid-Maine 
Medical  Center,  has  joined  the  staff  of  Central 
Maine  Power  as  a  programmer  analyst. 


1974 


MARRIED:  Joseph  McGinn  to  Debra  Gebo  of 
Westboro.  MA.  on  October  29. 1982.  Joe.  who 
works  as  a  senior  environmental  engineer  at 
CE  Maguire  in  Waltham.  is  active  with  bar- 
bershop quartets  and  conservation  projects  in 
Worcester  County. 

BORN:  to  Linda  and  Paul  ("Butch" i  Boulier 
their  first  child.  Natalie  Lynn,  on  December 
29.  1982.  Paul  is  a  gTOup  leader  at  Borden 
Chemical.  Inc..  Leominster.  MA.  ...  to  Suz- 
anne and  Louis  Pisckelle  a  daughter.  Kathryn 
Alexandria,  on  November  23.  1982.  Piscitelle 
is  working  on  his  PhD  in  mathematics  at  North- 
eastern and  consulting  during  the  summer.  .  .  . 
to  Mr.  and  Mrs  Ronald  Sarver  a  daughter. 
Lauren  Rachel,  on  December  29.  1982.  Ron's 
business.  Ronald  Sarv  er  Caterers  of  Randolph. 
MA.  has  expanded  into  vending  and  cafeteria 
catering,  besides  the  primary  wedding  busi- 
ness Sarver  has  been  active  in  the  National 
Association  of  Catering  Executives. 

Steve  Dacri.  of  Steve  Dacri  Productions.  North 
Hollywood.  CA.  performed  at  Hollywood's 
Magic  Castle  in  February,  on  the  cruise  ship 
M.S.  Sagafjord  in  March.  April  and  May  and 
was  slated  to  appear  at  the  Chateau  De  Yille. 
Framingham.  MA.  with  Tony  Orlando  in  Au- 
gust. 

Stuart  Daniels  is  senior  plastics  chemist  at 
Teknor  Apex  Co..  Paw-tucket.  RI. 

In  February  Bob  Ferrari  was  named  princi- 
pal in  charge  of  the  water  pollution  group  at 
Thibault  <fc  Assoc..  Providence.  RI.  His  re- 
sponsibilities are  primarily  in  industrial  waste- 
water treatment.  Following  three  leg  opera- 
tions. Bob  is  back  running  again  and  hopes  to 
see  some  of  his  former  cross-country  team- 
mates at  the  WPI  Homecoming  road  race. 

Ed  Gordon,  now  a  senior  software  engineer 
at  Autech  Data  Systems  in  Florida,  has  been 
selected  for  inclusion  in  Who's  Who  in  the 
Frontier  of  Science  <k  Technology. 


James  Ingraham  is  a  senior  research  engi- 
neer with  Polaroid  in  New  Bedford.  MA. 

Dr.  Robert  Lindberg  w  as  recently  named  head 
of  the  Systems  Control  and  Dynamics  Section 
in  the  Aerospace  Systems  Division  of  the  Naval 
Research  Laboratory  in  Washington.  DC.  Bob 
completed  his  PhD  in  mechanical  engineering 
at  Columbia  University  in  1982.  He  and  his 
wife.  Nancy,  live  in  northern  Virginia  with  their 
children.  Bethany.  3.  and  Christian.  1. 

Larry  Martiniano  is  now  assistant  superin- 
tendent for  engineering  at  Stone  &  Webster. 
Lycoming.  NY 

Mark  Ostergren  has  been  promoted  by  Bab- 
cock and  Wilcox  to  program  administrator  for 
business  analysis  of  the  pulp  and  paper  industry 
in  the  industrial  power  generation  division. 
North  Canton.  OH.  He  is  responsible  for  mar- 
keting of  recovery  and  power  boilers. 

Grason-Stadler.  Inc.  (GSI).  of  Littleton.  NLA. 
has  promoted  Janice  Painter  to  director  of  mar- 
keting. In  her  new  post,  she  is  responsible  for 
the  firm's  overall  marketing  function,  including 
sales  promotion,  service,  and  its  New  England 
sales  departments. 

Robert  Parnass  is  now  a  member  of  the  tech- 
nical staff  at  Bell  Laboratories  in  Naperville. 
IL.  For  the  past  three  years  he  has  been  a 
technical  advisor  to  the  American  Radio  Relay 
League. 

Gary  Pontbriand  has  been  promoted  to  man- 
ager of  product  engineering  at  Quabaug  Rub- 
ber Company  in  North  Brookfield.  MA.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  assistant  plant  manager.  He 
serves  as  president  of  the  Tri-Community  Ex- 
change Club  and  as  a  board  member  of  the 
Charlton  Credit  Union. 

Scott  Rine  is  a  deputy  equal  opportunity  of- 
ficer with  the  Department  of  Defense  (Navy) 
Activity  and  lives  in  Worcester. 

Norman  Szamocki  has  been  appointed  su- 
perintendent of  the  rope  mill  at  the  Bethlehem 
Steel  Wire  Rope  Division.  Williamsport .  PA. 
With  the  firm  since  1974.  Szamocki  was  pro- 
moted to  engineer  at  the  rope  mill  in  1976  and 
to  assistant  to  the  superintendent  in  1979.  In 
1981.  he  was  named  assistant  superintendent. 

Peter  Thacher  writes  that  he  flew  around  the 
world  last  year.  His  itinerary  included  an  ele- 
phant trek  through  northern  Thailand  and  a 
camping  trip  in  northern  India. 

Jim  Rubino.  Class  Secretary 


1975 


.\L\RRIED:  Alan  Chandler  and  Laura  Boiling 
Sullivan  in  St.  Simons.  G.A.  on  November  13. 
1982.  Alan  has  his  MBA  from  the  Universitv 
of  Missouri  and  is  assistant  structural  engineer 
with  Russell.  Gibson.  &  Von  Dohlen  in  Far- 
mington.  CT.  .  .  .  Louis  Christoforo  and  Karen 
Kirkland  recently  in  Randolph.  MA.  She  grad- 
uated from  Randolph  High  School.  They  both 
are  employed  at  Tech  HighFi.  Randolph.  .  .  . 
Michael  Simanonok  to  Michael  Melinda  Collier 
on  March  19.  1983.  in  McAllen.  TX.  She  grad- 
uated from  SMU  in  Dallas.  Both  are  with  Texas 
Instruments.  Simanonok  is  a  systems  analyst. 
BORN:  to  Joan  and  Richard  Aseltine  a  son. 
Richard,  recently.  .  .  .  to  Brena  and  Scott  Bick- 
nell  a  daughter.  Amy  Lee.  on  December  28. 
1982.  Scott  is  a  senior  industrial  engineer  with 
theGM  Assembly  Division  in  Warren.  MI.  .  .  . 
to  Mr.   and  Mrs    Robert  Cloutier  a  second 


36        WPI  JOURNAL 


daughter,  Amy,  recently.  Melissa  is  two.  .  .  . 
to  Peggy  and  Stephen  Hernon  a  son,  Patrick 
Kelly,  March  17,  1983.  Son  Stephen,  Jr.,  is 
two.  Hernon  serves  as  a  computer  consultant 
for  firms  in  New  York  City.  ...  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Robert  Sooy  a  daughter,  Kristin  Taylor, 
on  August  25, 1982.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Frank 
Vanzler  a  daughter,  Bonnie  Alison,  on  January 
18,  1983. 

In  December  Mark  Antonio  completed  re- 
quirements for  a  PhD  of  philosophy  in  chem- 
istry at  Michigan  State  University.  Employed 
in  the  molecular  and  surface  spectroscopy  group 
of  Standard  Oil  Co.  Research  Center  in  Cleve- 
land, OH,  Antonio  also  holds  an  MS  from  Fair- 
leigh  Dickinson  University. 

Thomas  Bower  now  serves  as  director  of  op- 
erations and  safety  for  the  Department  of  the 
Army  Chemical  R&D  Center. 

Mark  Drown  joined  the  engineering  staff  at 
Mclntire  Company,  Thomaston,  CT,  in  March. 

Mark  Iampietro  serves  as  corporate  manager 
of  documentation  and  labeling  at  Delmed,  Inc., 
a  medical  device  and  large-volume  parenteral 
manufacturer  in  Canton,  MA.  He  recently 
completed  the  construction  of  a  home  in  Lake- 
ville,  MA. 

Paul  Loomis  is  a  senior  technical  service  rep- 
resentative for  swimming  pool  chemicals  at  Olin 
Corporation.  He  has  a  two-year-old  son, 
Douglas  Alexander. 

David  McGowan  has  been  promoted  to  di- 
rector of  products  and  technical  service  at  Po- 
lyclad  Laminates,  Inc.,  Franklin,  MA.  Previ- 
ously he  was  multi-layer  product  manager, 
operations  manager  and  manager  of  multi-layer 
and  specialty  products  for  Polvclad.  He  has  a 
BS  from  UMass  and  an  MS  from  WPI. 

Gary  Rodgers  has  been  promoted  from  cap- 
tain to  lieutenant  colonel  and  is  now  overseas 
with  the  U.S.  Army  21st  Support  Command. 

John  Watkins,  a  development  engineer  de- 
signing labeling  machinery,  has  applied  for  his 
first  patent. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Douglas  Adams  and  Mary  Jo  Pu- 
pek  on  April  16,  1983,  in  Springfield,  MA.  She 
attended  UMass,  Amherst.  Both  are  employed 
at  Massachusetts  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.. 
where  Adams  serves  as  a  system  analyst. 

John  Brady  is  a  field  sales  engineer  with  Intel 
Corp.  in  Houston,  TX. 

Bob  Thorell  and  his  partner,  Charlie  Schmohl, 
run  Mountain  Associates,  a  local  solar  panel 
installation  company  in  Princeton.  MA. 

Frank  Vanecek  recently  received  his  PhD  in 
decision  science  from  Kent  State  University. 
He  is  an  assistant  professor  of  computer  science 
and  head  of  the  economics  and  business  de- 
partment at  Norwich  University,  Northfield. 
VT. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Akers  to  Janet  Fritschen 
on  March  26,  1983,  in  Vicksburg,  MS.  She 
graduated  from  Michigan  State,  and  they  are 
both  employed  by  Waterways  Experiment  Sta- 
tion, where  Akers  is  an  ocean  engineer. 
Chris  Cocaine  has  a  new  post  as  facilities 


The  man  of  many  faces 

The  Play's  the  Thing 
For  Daniel  Robbins 

The  report  of  his  demise  was  premature. 
He  was  supposed  to  have  been  murdered, 
but  there  he  was,  big  as  life,  walking  around 
town  looking  for  the  fellow  who  bragged 
that  he  had  "done  him  in."  His  own  son! 
In  a  nutshell,  that  is  precisely  the  po- 
sition in  which  Daniel  Robbins,  '73  (CE), 
found  himself  recently  while  portraying 
Old  Mahon  in  Synge's  play  The  Playboy 


of  the  Western  World  in  Athens.  OH. 
Commenting  on  the  performance,  a  local 
critic  wrote,  "Robbins  is  rousing  as  Old 
Mahon,  bringing  life  to  the  supposedly 
dead  father  as  well  as  the  play  itself.  .  .  . 
He  is  electric!" 

Last  June.  Robbins  received  his  master 
of  fine  arts  degree  through  the  Profes- 
sional Actors  Training  Program  at  Ohio 
University,  Athens.  During  his  final  year 
of  college,  he  served  a  four-month  in- 
ternship at  the  Virginia  Museum  Theater 
in  Richmond.  While  there,  he  appeared 
in  Tiller's  Count  Dracula  and  Dickens's 
A  Christmas  Carol  and  he  was  an  under- 
study in  Kyte's  Tintypes. 

Returning  to  Athens,  he  toured  col- 
leges and  high  schools  in  Ohio  and  West 
Virginia  as  Tom  Wingfield  in  Williams's 
The  Glass  Menagerie.  He  ended  his  resi- 
dency with  the  thesis  role  of  Old  Mahon 
in  Playboy. 

Robbins's  personal  life  is  not  devoid  of 
drama.  "A  couple  of  years  ago,"  he  ex- 
plains, "I  was  working  in  a  show  with  a 
12-year-old  boy  named  Andy.  Andy  in- 
troduced me  to  his  mother,  Rita  St.  Clair, 
who  also  happens  to  have  degrees  in  the- 
atre. Last  June  18,  Rita  and  I  were  mar- 
ried." 

Recently  Robbins,  his  wife  and  stepson 
moved  to  Chicago,  "where  we  are  launch- 
ing new  careers."  They  are  presently 
associated  with  a  newly  established  im- 
provisational  group.  The  Public  Access 
Theatre.  The  group  was  scheduled  to  per- 
form Irwin  Shaw's  Bury  the  Dead  in  May. 


project  engineer  at  M/A-Com  Components  in 
Burlington,  MA. 

Robert  Cundall  is  now  a  supply  analyst  at 
Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  Fairfax,  VA. 

Gail  Nedbor-Gross  holds  the  post  of  com- 
puter marketing  manager  for  Tandy  Corp./ 
Computer  Shack  in  New  York  City. 

Joan  Lyshack  Roy  is  a  programmer-analyst 
at  Wyman-Gordon  Co.  in  Grafton,  MA. 

Andrew  Sayles  of  Plympton,  MA,  has  re- 
turned home  after  two  years  with  the  Peace 
Corps  in  Nepal.  He  worked  on  suspension  bridge 
construction  in  the  Himalayan  nation,  his  proj- 
ect being  located  in  the  Gorkha  District. 

Scott  Sieburth  is  a  senior  research  chemist 
at  FMC  in  Princeton,  NJ.  He  is  slated  to  re- 
ceive his  PhD  in  chemistry  from  Harvard  this 
year. 


1978 


Reunion 


October  1,  1983 


MARRIED:  Sandra  Wyman  and  George 
Daniel  on  February  12. 1983.  Sandra  and  George 
are  starting  a  business  involving  energy  recov- 
ery systems  in  Bangor.  ME.  Previously  she  was 
with  Air  Products  in  Allentown,  PA. 
BORN:  To  Robert  and  Robin  Paisner  Chapeli 


their  second  daughter.  Stephanie  Lisa,  on  De- 
cember 16,  1982.  Bob  continues  as  an  envi- 
ronmental engineer  with  LEA.  Robin  received 
her  MS  in  environmental  sciences  at  Harvard. 
...  to  Kathie  and  Jim  Fowler  a  son,  Andrew 
John,  on  January  14,  1983.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
David  Markey,  a  second  child,  Jennifer  Anne, 
on  November  26.  1982.  David  is  a  research 
engineer  at  Wyman-Gordon. 

Steven  Diaz  is  an  assistant  professor  of  math- 
ematics at  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

Kevin  Ingle  was  recently  promoted  to  budget 
manager  at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester.  *I 
am  becoming  quite  skilled  at  repairing  and  re- 
modelling the  house  my  wife  and  I  just  pur- 
chased." he  writes. 

Last  year  Ken  Kummins  became  a  principal 
in  Quantum  Group.  Inc..  Berkeley.  CA.  He 
manages  the  Fire  Protection  Division.  His  firm 
is  marketing  representative  for  fireproofing 
material  originally  developed  for  the  aerospace 
program  (Polaris.  X-15,  etc.). 

Richard  Ruscito  is  a  senior  process  engineer 
at  Olin  Corporation  in  St.  Marks.  FL. 

Lt.  Robert  Sachuk,  USN,  is  currently  assis- 
tant resident  officer  in  charge  of  construction 
at  the  Marine  base.  Camp  Pendleton,  in  Cal- 
ifornia. Recently  he  received  the  Navy  Medal 
of  Commendation  for  work  completed  earlier 
as  a  staff  civil  engineer  at  the  Naval  Supply 
Center  in  San  Diego. 


AUGUST  1983 


37 


Bill  Delphos  (center)  with  Jamaica's  Prime  Minister  Seaga  at  OPIC  conference 

Bill  Delphos:  OPIC's  Satellite  Entrepreneur 


Question:  How  can  busy  U.S.  business 
executives  intelligently  explore  foreign  in- 
vestment opportunities  without  having  to 
travel  to  time-consuming,  expensive  in- 
ternational conferences? 

Answer:  Through  "Telemission." 

Two  years  ago.  the  program  and  term 
did  not  exist.  Today.  "Telemission,"  the 
brainchild  of  Bill  Delphos.  74MG,  is 
making  U.S.  investors  happy  and  creating 
thousands  of  jobs  in  developing  nations. 

Last  year  Delphos.  vice  president  of 
operations  for  the  Overseas  Private  In- 
vestment Corporation  (OPIC).  intro- 
duced telemission.  a  live-by-satellite 
meeting  linking  business  groups  in  six  U.S. 
cities  with  government  ministers  and  pri- 
vate entrepreneurs  in  Cairo.  Egypt. 

The  teleconference  gave  potential  U.S. 
investors  the  opportunity  to  talk  directly 
with  prospective  joint  venture  partners  and 
government  leaders  about  investment 
possibilities  in  Egypt.  Walter  Cronkite 
served  as  U.S.  moderator  in  New  York. 
Presidents  Reagan  and  Mubarak  led  off 
the  program. 


Delphos  says.  "This  was  the  first  time 
a  federal  agency  had  used  network  sat- 
ellite technology  to  make  a  foreign  in- 
vestment 'visit.'  "  He  was  also  co-chair- 
man of  the  follow-up  live  mission  to  Egypt 
two  months  later. 

As  a  result  of  the  April  teleconference, 
and  the  June  mission,  American  compa- 
nies such  as  Land  O'Lakes  and  Chemtex 
plan  to  invest  more  than  $15  million  in 
Egypt,  creating  1,200  new  jobs. 

In  October  Delphos  chaired  another 
successful  telemission  emphasizing  op- 
portunities in  the  Caribbean  islands.  The 
"Telemission"  concept  has  become  so 
popular  that  other  developing  nations,  in- 
cluding Israel  and  Indonesia,  have  sought 
OPIC  sponsorship. 

Bill  Delphos,  who  joined  OPIC  in  1981, 
previously  held  management  posts  with 
Gould,  Inc..  of  Chicago,  where  he  had 
been  director  of  Gould's  international  di- 
vision. In  his  current  position,  in  Wash- 
ington. DC,  he  is  responsible  for  OPIC's 
insurance,  finance  and  marketing  depart- 
ments. 


James  ("Demetri")  Shuris  has  been  pro- 
moted to  construction  project  engineer  at  Riley 
Stoker  in  Worcester.  He  joined  the  firm  as  a 
structural  engineer  in  1980.  He  holds  an  MS  in 
construction  project  management  from  WPI. 
where  he  is  currently  working  for  his  MBA. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Blanchette  and  Doreen 
Shattuck  on  August  21,  1982,  in  Shrewsbury. 


MA.  She  is  an  accountant  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp..  Maynard,  MA.  He  has  received  an  MBA 
from  Clark  University  and  is  an  associate  pro- 
gram manager  at  Digital  in  Stow.  MA.  .  .  . 
Dean  Bogues  and  Patrice  Bennett  of  Roslin- 
dale.  MA,  on  August  28.  1982.  She  is  a  medical 
technologist  at  Ortho  Diagnostic  Systems  in 
Westwood.  and  he  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Hew- 
lett-Packard in  Lexington.  MA. 

MARRIED:  Edward  Cuerdon  to  Nancy  Hay- 
den  in  Waltham,  MA,  on  December  9,  1982. 
She  graduated  from  UMass,  Amherst,  holds 
an  MS  from  Duke  University,  and  is  a  staff 


physical  therapist  for  Massachusetts  Rehabili- 
tation Hospital.  Cuerdon  is  with  United  Illu- 
minating in  New  Haven.  CT.  .  .  .  John  Jacob- 
son  and  Lisa  Munroe  on  November  21.  1982. 
in  Salem,  MA.  She  graduated  from  Marian 
Court  Jr.  College  of  Business.  Both  she  and 
Jacobson  are  associated  with  GE  in  Lynn.  .  .  . 
Barbara  Murtagh  and  Stephen  McKinnon  in 
Hampshire  Hills.  Milford.  NH.  on  January  8. 
1983.  Both  with  Sanders  Associates,  she  is  an 
electrical  engineer  and  he  a  financial  manage- 
ment trainee.  She  has  an  MBA  from  New 
Hampshire  College  and  is  studying  for  her 
MSEE  at  Northeastern.  McKinnon  graduated 
from  Northeastern. 

Stephen  Hull  has  received  his  PhD  in  phys- 
iology from  Michigan  State  University. 

Paul  Keenan  has  accepted  a  new  post  as  con- 
struction management  career  development 
trainee  in  the  Quincy  (MA)  Shipbuilding  Di- 
vision of  General  Dynamics. 

Paul  Peterson  was  recently  promoted  to  chief 
underwriter  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1981. 

Mark  Steblin  has  been  promoted  to  captain 
in  the  Air  Force.  He  is  a  development  elec- 
tronic engineer  at  Eglin  Air  Force  Base. 

Edward  Tidman  III  has  been  advanced  to 
assistant  loan  officer  at  Mechanics  Bank  in 
Worcester.  With  the  bank  since  1981.  his  latest 
responsibilities  include  account  maintenance 
and  new  business  development.  He  is  also  at- 
tending Suffolk  University  Law  School. 


1980 


MARRIED:  John  Barghout  and  Cheryl  Pybas 
in  Fiskdale.  MA.  on  June  19.  1982.  A  regis- 
tered nurse,  she  attended  Holy  Cross  College 
and  graduated  from  Our  Lady  of  the  Elms  Col- 
lege in  Chicopee.  Barghout  serves  as  a  fire  pro- 
tection engineer.  .  .  .  John  Nenninger  and 
Kathleen  O'Leary  in  Auburn.  MA.  on  October 
9,  1982.  A  registered  nurse  at  the  Fallon  Clinic, 
Worcester,  she  graduated  from  Worcester  State 
College.  Burbank  Hospital  School  of  Nursing, 
Fitchburg.  and  Fitchburg  State  College.  He  is 
with  Cincinnati  Milacron.  Heald  Machine  Di- 
vision. Worcester.  .  .  .  David  Wilson  and  Cathy 
Girouard,  '81,  last  October.  Cathy  is  a  quality 
control  engineer  with  Digital  in  Maynard,  MA. 
David  works  for  GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham. 

BORN:  to  Francie  and  Brownell  Bailey  a  son. 
Brandon  Little,  on  December  10.  1982.  The 
baby's  grandfather  is  Bruce  Bailey,  '51.  .  .  .to 
Barbara  and  Francis  Walsh  a  daughter,  Ka- 
leena  Heather,  on  January  16,  1983. 

Mihran  Aroian  now  works  for  Bethesda  Re- 
search Laboratories,  the  largest  biotechnology 
and  genetic  engineering  company  in  the  coun- 
try. He  holds  the  post  of  technical  service  com- 
munication specialist. 

For  two  years  Grace  Crooker  was  a  civil  en- 
gineer doing  water  surveys  for  the  Peace  Corps 
in  Suva,  Fiji.  She  has  also  been  associated  with 
the  EPA  in  Acton,  MA,  and  Denver.  CO.  She 
plans  to  earn  a  master's  degree  in  sanitary  en- 
gineering. 

Paul  Doherty  is  a  chemical  engineer  with 
Simtran  in  Medway.  MA.  He  has  an  MS  from 
the  University  of  Michigan. 

Currently.  Jim  Racca  works  for  the  Cleve- 
land plant  of  Phillip  A.  Hunt  Chemical  Co., 
which  has  headquarters  in  New  Jersey. 


38        WPI  JOURNAL 


James  Sweeney  III,  a  systems  analyst,  has 
been  awarded  GE's  Construction  and  Engi- 
neering Services  Group's  1983  Young  Engi- 
neer Award.  Sweeney,  who  works  for  GE's 
Energy  Applications  Program  Department  in 
Schenectady,  NY,  was  cited  for  his  economic 
analysis  of  eight  cogeneration  plants  on  the  West 
Coast. 

Eric  Worthington  serves  as  a  programmer 
for  Ensco,  Inc..  Springfield,  VA. 


1981 


Deborah  Johnson  Doherty  is  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  TASC  in  Reading.  MA.  She 
holds  an  MS  in  statistics  from  the  University 
of  Michigan. 

Alan  Figgatt  serves  as  a  programmer  at  Scope, 
Inc.,  Reston,  VA. 

William  Fletcher  is  a  sales  representative  for 
Hewlett-Packard  in  Lexington,  MA. 

John  Grout  continues  as  a  programmer  for 
IBM  in  Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

Phil  Gallagher  works  for  Electric  Boat  and 
lives  in  New  London,  CT. 

Mary  Jane  Hall  is  a  design  engineer  with 
Nasland  Engineering  in  San  Diego.  CA. 

David  Ireland  has  completed  his  master's  in 
applied  mechanics  at  Stanford  University. 

2nd  Lt.  David  Jensen  has  been  awarded  his 
silver  wings  after  graduating  from  USAF  Pilot 
Training  School  in  Lubbock.  TX. 

Lisa  Kosciuczyk,  a  civil  engineering  assistant 
for  Los  Angeles  County  Flood  Control,  has 
been  named  an  Outstanding  Young  Woman  of 
America  for  1982. 

Jack  Ryan  has  accepted  the  post  of  product 
support  engineer  at  Compugraphic  Corpora- 
tion, Wilmington,  MA.  Previously  he  was  as- 
sistant plant  engineer  for  Jannell  Truck  Bodies 
in  Woonsocket.  RI.  He  also  studies  part-time 
for  his  MS  in  engineering  management  at 
Northeastern  University. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Paul  Dagle  and  Ann  Marie  Irr  in 
Weymouth,  MA,  on  November  20,  1982.  She 
graduated  from  Becker.  Dagle  works  for  the 
General  Dynamics  Electric  Boat  Division  in 
Groton,  CT. 

John  Consiglio,  a  development  engineer  with 
AVCO-Lycoming  in  Stratford,  CT,  is  active 
with  WPI's  jazz  and  concert  music  programs. 

Ernie  Cormier  is  a  design  engineer  in  the 
space  division  at  Rockwell  International,  Dow- 
ney, CA.  He  also  does  free-lance  engineering 
in  design  and  microprocessors. 

John  Hollett  is  studying  for  his  master's  de- 
gree at  RPI. 

Stuart  Joseph  serves  as  an  electrical  engineer 
with  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co.,  Fra- 
mingham.  MA. 

Michael  Lawrence  is  now  with  R.  J.  Mar- 
shall, Inc.,  Building  Contractors,  in  Seekonk. 
MA. 

Edward  Mellon  is  mechanical  design  engi- 
neer at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas. 

Thomas  Potter,  an  ensign  in  the  U.S.  Navy, 
is  enrolled  in  the  Naval  Nuclear  Power  Train- 
ing Program. 

Robert  Riotto  holds  the  position  of  manu- 


facturing engineer  at  Harris  Corporation  in 
Dover,  NH. 

Gordon  Swanson.  who  was  previously  with 
ConDiesel  Mobile  Equipment  in  Greenwich, 
CT,  is  now  a  manufacturing  engineer  with  Texas 
Instruments  in  Attleboro,  MA. 

Garrett  Thompson  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Harris  Corporation's  government  communi- 
cations division  in  Melbourne,  FL. 

Chris  Wraight,  an  account  executive  with 
American  Bell.  Inc.,  lives  in  Boston. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Nicholas  Moffa,  '56,  president  of  Bay  State 
Abrasives,  has  received  an  award  from  the  U.S. 
Treasury  Department  for  his  volunteer  service 
in  the  Savings  Bond  Program.  He  sold  $21  mil- 
lion worth  of  savings  bonds  while  chairman  of 
the  Greater  Worcester  Take  Stock  in  America 
Center  for  1981  and  1982.  .  .  .  Scott  Sargent, 
'65,  has  been  elected  a  director  of  Morgan 


Construction  Co.,  Worcester.  Also  a  vice  pres- 
ident and  controller,  he  has  been  with  the  firm 
for  26  years.  He  graduated  from  Bowdoin.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  Perry,  '69,  has  organized  Business 
Opportunity  Counselors,  Inc.,  Auburn,  MA, 
which  he  serves  as  president.  Previously  he  was 
with  American  Optical  Corp.  for  25  years, 
holding  administrative,  financial,  personnel  and 
management  positions.  He  graduated  from 
Bentley  College. 

Jack  Shields,  '69,  was  featured  in  an  article. 
"A  New  Strategy  for  No.  2  in  Computers," 
which  appeared  in  Business  Week  in  May. 
.  .  .  Carl  Swanson,  '70,  has  been  named  di- 
rector of  quality  assurance  for  Fenwal,  Inc.,  a 
division  of  Kidde,  Inc.,  in  Ashland,  MA.  He 
joined  the  company  in  1968  and  has  served  as 
manager  of  production  engineering  and  pro- 
tection systems  engineering.  A  graduate  of  MIT, 
he  belongs  to  IEEE  and  the  American  Society 
of  Quality  Control.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Rizner,  '80, 
was  recently  promoted  to  assistant  plant  man- 
ager at  Hyde  Manufacturing  Co.,  Southbridge, 
MA.  He  started  with  the  firm  as  a  student  and 
later  became  a  routing  analyst,  product  man- 
ager and  special  products  manager. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Rollin  T.  Read,  '11,  died  in  a  nursing  home  in 
Windham,  ME,  on  March  4,  1983.  He  was  born 
in  Springfield.  MA,  on  Aug.  13,  1888,  and  re- 
ceived his  BSME  from  WPI. 

During  both  world  wars  he  was  director  of 
safety  and  plant  protection  for  Du  Pont  in  Wil- 
mington, DE,  and  Elwood  Ordnance  plant  in 
Joliet,  IL,  respectively.  After  World  War  I,  he 
was  an  industrial  engineer  in  the  cotton  man- 
ufacturing plants  in  New  England.  Before  World 
War  II.  he  managed  the  Dan  River  finishing 
plant  and  the  Riverside  Cotton  mills  in  Vir- 
ginia. After  World  War  II.  he  served  as  a  con- 
sultant for  various  firms. 

Mr.  Read,  a  past  officer  of  many  civic  or- 
ganizations, was  a  life  member  of  the  Windham 
Historical  Society.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma 
Delta. 

Stanley  F.  Hunt,  '13,  died  at  his  home  in 
Abington,  MA,  in  January.  He  was  91. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  March 
29,  1891.  He  was  a  salesman  for  the  steel  in- 
dustry for  many  years.  Among  his  employers 
were  the  former  American  Steel  and  Wire  Co., 
Black  Steel  &  Wire  Co.  and  Wickwire  Spencer 
Steel  Co. 

Mr.  Hunt  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta, 
the  Masons  and  the  United  Church  of  Christ. 
During  World  War  I  he  was  an  ensign  in  the 
U.S.  Navy. 

William  W.  Spratt,  '14,  a  longtime  employee 
of  Westinghouse.  died  in  Philadelphia  on  De- 
cember 19,  1982,  at  the  age  of  89. 

He  was  born  on  Feb.  20,  1893,  in  South- 
bridge.  MA.  He  received  his  BSEE  and  profes- 
sional EE  degrees  from  WPI.  In  1930  he  re- 
ceived his  LLB  from  Duquesne  University.  For 
many  years  he  was  with  Westinghouse  in  Pitts- 
burgh, where  he  was  an  engineer  and  contract 
patent  attorney.  In  1958  he  retired  from  West- 


inghouse and  began  a  private  law  practice  in 
Wilkinsburg,  PA. 

A  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi, 
Mr.  Spratt  also  belonged  to  the  American  Bar 
Association,  the  Kiwanis  Club,  the  Presbyter- 
ian Church,  the  American  Legion  and  the  Ma- 
sons. He  was  active  in  Scouting.  In  World  War 
I  he  served  with  the  U.S.  Navy. 

Dr.  Arthur  Nutt,  '16,  a  member  of  the  Avia- 
tion Pioneers  Hall  of  Fame  and  a  WPI  Emer- 
itus Trustee,  died  in  Boca  Raton.  FL,  on  April 
22,  1983.  at  the  age  of  88. 

He  was  born  in  New  Rochelle,  NY,  and  re- 
ceived his  BSME  from  WPI.  A  pioneer  aircraft 
engineer.  Dr.  Nutt  was  a  retired  vice  president 
of  the  Lycoming  Division  of  AVCO  and  a  for- 
mer vice  president  of  Curtiss- Wright  Corp. 

The  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers  (SAE) 
called  Dr.  Nutt  "one  of  the  world's  outstanding 
authorities  on  aircraft  engines."  He  developed 
the  first  aircraft  engine  capable  of  producing 
350  horsepower  over  a  50-hour  endurance  test. 
His  redesign  of  that  engine  powered  airplanes 
that  held  all  the  world  speed  records  for  a  dec- 
ade. He  oversaw  development  of  the  famous 
Whirlwind  and  Cyclone  engines.  At  Packard 
Motor  Car  Co.  he  helped  develop  two  large 
jet  engines,  as  well  as  new  models  of  the  Rolls 
Royce  Merlin  aircraft  engines.  At  Lycoming 
he  helped  produce  Wright  Cyclone  engines  that 
powered  90  percent  of  the  world's  commercial 
airplanes. 

Dr.  Nutt,  who  received  an  honorary  doctor 
of  engineering  degree  from  WPI  in  1941,  was 
a  past  president  of  the  SAE  and  a  fellow  of  the 
Institute  of  Aerospace  Sciences.  He  belonged 
to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and  Pi  Tau  Sigma, 
and  the  Masons  and  the  Sons  of  the  American 
Revolution.  He  was  a  former  president  of  the 
Western  New  York  chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association. 


AUGUST  1983        39 


Austin  H.  Welch,  '19,  died  in  Boston.  MA.  on 
February  25,  1983.  He  was  87.  He  was  born  in 
Lowell  and  graduated  with  a  BSME. 

After  working  for  several  years  as  a  con- 
struction engineer.  Mr.  Welch  taught  ther- 
modynamics at  Dartmouth's  Thayer  School  of 
Engineering  and  at  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire.  In  1955  he  founded  the  College  of 
Advanced  Science  of  Canaan,  later  known  as 
Canaan  College. 

A  32nd-degree  Mason,  he  also  was  a  charter 
member  of  the  New  Hampshire  Professional 
Engineers  and  a  veteran  of  the  U.S.  Naval  Re- 
serve in  World  War  I.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  Skull. 

John  Q.  Holmes,  '20,  a  retired  General  Motors 
(GM)  executive,  died  in  Royal  Oak.  MI.  on 
February  13.  1983.  He  was  born  in  Springfield. 
VT.  on  Nov.  27.  1898. 

Graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  he 
worked  for  Marmom  Motor  Car  Co..  Delco 
Remy  (GM).  Axelson  Machinery  Co..  Eastern 
Aircraft  (GM)  and  Buick-Oldsmobile-Pontiac 
(GM).  In  1954  he  became  a  member  of  the 
GM  process  development  staff  and  in  1956  he 
was  named  to  the  GM  manufacturing  devel- 
opment staff.  He  retired  in  1962  as  an  executive 
on  GM's  engineering  staff  after  38  years. 

Mr.  Holmes  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Al- 
pha, the  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers,  the 
American  Standards  Association,  the  Engi- 
neering Society  of  Detroit  and  the  Circumnav- 
igators' Club,  as  well  as  the  Masons  and  the 
Shrine.  He  served  with  the  U.S.  Armv  in  World 
War  I. 

Richard  F.  W.  Johnson,  Sr.,  '20,  died  on  Feb- 
ruary 16,  1983,  in  Memorial  Hospital.  Worces- 
ter. A  native  of  Buckland.  MA,  he  was  born 
on  February  7.  1898. 

Before  retiring  in  1970.  Mr.  Johnson  was 
with  Riley  Stoker.  Worcester,  for  45  years. 
Previously  he  had  worked  for  Pullman  Co.  and 
American  Locomotive  Co.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts. 

A  charter  member  of  Trinity  Lutheran 
Church,  he  also  belonged  to  Theta  Chi.  He 
was  the  father  of  Richard  F.  W.  Johnson,  Jr., 
'50. 

Roger  R.  Jenness,  '21,  of  New  Smyrna  Beach. 
FL,  passed  away  on  February  17.  1983.  He  was 
born  on  Oct.  5.  1898.  in  Worcester. 


After  receiving  his  BSEE.  he  joined  A.W. 
Shaw  Co..  Chicago,  where  he  was  assistant  ed- 
itor of  Factory  Magazine.  He  later  was  con- 
cerned with  real  estate  and  mortgages.  After 
serving  with  the  Army  Air  Force  Training 
Command  in  World  War  II.  he  became  a  pro- 
fessor of  electrical  engineering  at  Northwest- 
ern University,  from  which  he  retired  as  Pro- 
fessor Emeritus  in  1968. 

Mr.  Jenness  belonged  to  ATO,  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Sigma  Xi.  as  well  as  IEEE.  ASEE  and  the 
Simulation  Council.  He  had  served  as  presi- 
dent and  director  of  the  National  Electronics 
Conference.  He  held  an  MS  degree  from 
Northwestern. 

Joseph  Kushner.  '21,  of  Hallandale.  FL,  died 
recentlv.  A  Springfield,  MA.  native,  he  was 
born  on  Dec.  25,  1898. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  he  joined  the  family's 
wholesale  grocery  business.  In  1936  he  became 
president  of  his  own  grocery  business.  Con- 
solidated Brokers,  Inc.,  in  Springfield. 

A  member  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers,  Mr. 
Kushner  had  also  been  active  with  the  Boy 
Scouts,  food  broker  organizations,  his  church, 
the  Shrine  and  the  community  educational 
board. 

William  ("Jerry")  Martin,  '21,  died  in  Win- 
chester. MA.  on  March  28,  1983,  at  the  age  of 
84.  He  was  born  in  Chelsea.  MA. 

He  graduated  with  his  BSME.  Prior  to  his 
retirement,  he  was  a  sales  manager  for  Potter 
and  Johnson,  a  machine  tool  manufacturer  in 
Pawtucket.  RI. 

Mr.  Martin  had  served  as  chairman  of  the 
local  chapter  of  the  American  Red  Cross.  He 
was  president  of  the  Class  of  1921's  45th  re- 
union committee,  a  former  class  vice  president 
and  past  president  of  the  Boston  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon. 

Howard  F.  Stephenson,  '27,  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  Plainville,  CT,  on  January  7,  1983.  He 
was  76. 

A  Plainville  native,  he  was  born  on  Jan.  23, 
1906.  He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer. 
From  1927  to  1934  he  was  with  Veeder  Indus- 
tries. Hartford.  In  1968,  following  33  years  of 
service,  he  retired  from  New  Departure  Hyatt 
Bearings,  a  General  Motors  division  in  Bristol. 

Mr.  Stephenson,  who  was  active  in  Scouting 


and  Congregational  Church  work,  belonged  to 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  the  Tech  Old-Timers  and 
the  Hartford  Engineers  Club. 

Lincoln  H.  Peterson,  '28,  died  at  home  in  Sar- 
asota, FL,  on  February  17,  1983,  at  the  age  of 
76.  He  was  a  Worcester  native. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer, 
he  joined  the  New  York  Telephone  Co.  Later 
he  was  associated  with  Bell  Telephone  Labs 
and  AT&T,  from  which  he  was  retired. 

Mr.  Peterson  was  a  member  of  SPE,  the  Al- 
bany Society  of  Engineers,  the  Elks,  the  Ma- 
sons, the  Presbyterian  choir  and  the  Memorial 
Society  of  Sarasota.  He  was  the  father  of  Paul 
Peterson,  '66. 

Boris  Dephoure,  '29,  of  Hollywood,  FL,  a  for- 
mer merchandise  group  manager  for  Sears 
Roebuck,  died  of  a  heart  attack  on  January  14, 
1983. 

He  was  born  on  August  30, 1907,  in  Worces- 
ter. A  graduate  ME,  he  had  served  as  a  Flying 
Cadet  with  the  Army  Air  Corps  and  had  been 
employed  by  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering.  In 
World  War  II  he  was  with  Army  Ordnance  in 
Boston.  From  1947  to  1967,  he  worked  for  Sears 
Roebuck. 

William  B.  Kenyon,  '31,  of  Springfield,  MA, 
died  recently.  He  was  born  in  Indian  Orchard 
on  April  15,  1906. 

After  receiving  his  BSME,  he  joined  Fiber- 
loid  Corp.,  now  Monsanto.  Later  he  worked 
for  Consolidated  Engineers  and  American  Bosch 
Arma  Corp.  in  Springfield. 

A  registered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts, Mr.  Kenyon  also  belonged  to  the 
Chicopee  Mfg.  Association  and  the  local  tax- 
payers' association. 

Harold  F.  Lorenz,  '31,  passed  away  in  Old  Say- 
brook,  CT,  on  February  22,  1983,  following  a 
long  illness.  He  was  born  in  Meriden,  CT,  on 
Dec.  30,  1907. 

He  graduated  with  a  BSEE  and  MSEE  from 
WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  a  general  man- 
ager for  L.C.  Doane  Co.,  Essex,  CT,  and  an 
electrical  engineer  for  Electric  Boat  Division 
of  General  Dynamics,  from  which  he  retired 
in  1969. 

James  McWhirter,  Jr.,  '31,  of  Moylan,  PA, 
died  on  December  24,  1982.  He  was  a  retired 
general  manager  of  Pennsalt  Chemicals,  Phil- 
adelphia. 

Born  in  Scotland  in  1909,  he  was  a  member 
of  the  Class  of  1931  at  WPI.  He  received  his 
BS  and  MS  at  Middlebury  College. 

Since  joining  Pennsalt  in  1945,  he  had  held 
several  production  management  positions,  in- 
cluding manager  of  manufacturing  for  the  Phil- 
adelphia division. 

Percival  G.  Ridley,  '31,  a  retired  manufactur- 
er's agent,  died  in  Hot  Springs,  AR.  on  Jan- 
uary 11,  1983.  He  was  73. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer.  He  worked  for  American  Steel 
&  Wire  and  Gavitt  Mfg.  Co.  In  1946  he  estab- 
lished Ridley  Associates  in  Chicago. 

Mr.  Ridley  was  active  with  the  Masons,  Lions 
International  (10-year  monarch)  and  Elks,  and 
he  held  a  number  of  civic  posts.  He  had  served 
as  president  of  the  Electronics  Representatives 
Association,  Chicagoland  chapter. 


40        WPI  JOURNAL 


Alumni  Regional  Contacts 


Boston:  James  R.  Hall  '76:  58  Margin  Street. 
Cohasset.  MA  02025:  617/383-6081. 

Buffalo:  James  M.  Kellv.  Jr.  '63:  239  Svcamore 
Street.  East  Aurora.  NY  14052;  716/652-6073. 

Chicago:  Charles  F.  Hunnicutt  '65:  35  W.  785 
Park  Lane.  Saint  Charles.  IL  60174:  312/584- 
0631. 

Cincinnati:  David  C.  Johnson  "66:  600  Dov- 
erdale  Drive.  Monroe.  OH  45050;  513  539-9323. 

Cleveland  Akron:  Martin  J.  Burgwinkle.  Jr.  75: 
5814  Allanwood  Road.  Parma.  OH  44129: 216/ 
845-6695. 

Denver:  Merico  E.  Argentati  '70:  6389  S.  Jas- 
mine Way.  Englewood.  CO  80111:  303/771- 
8453. 

Detroit:  Edward  W.  Eidt.  Jr.  '57:  26400  Mea- 
dowview.  Farmington  Hills.  MI  48018:  313  477- 
3554. 

Hartford:  Charles  D.  Konopka  '68:  748  Boston 
Neck  Road.  Suffield.  CT  06078:  203/668-7222. 

Houston:  Paula  E.  Stratoulv  '76;  1907  Court- 
ney Lane  Dr..  Houston.  TX  77042;  713/782- 
9575. 


New  Haven:  David  W.  Hoskinson  '57:  45  Still 
Hill  Road.  Hamden.  CT  06518:  203  281-3754. 

New  York  Citv:  Ronald  A.  Howard  '77:  220 
E.  54th  St..  New  York.  NY  10018;  212  758- 
8663. 

No.  California:  Leo  F.  Cournover  '59:  7018 
Waldheim  Court.  San  Jose.  CA  95120:  408/ 
268-6495. 

No.  New  Jersey:  John  E.  Anderson  '71:  3  Birch 
Terrace.  Somerset.  NJ  08873:  201/469-5757. 

Phoenix:  Howard  O.  Painter.  Jr.  '58:  10  West 
Countrv  Gables.  Phoenix.  AZ  85023:  602/863- 
0178. 

Pittsburgh:  Robert  G.  Newton  '40:  6  Norway 
Rd..  Forest  Hill.  Pittsburgh.  PA  15221;  412/ 
244-1498. 

Pittsfield:  Robert  J.  Bugley  '58:  Interlaken 
Crossroad.  West  Stockbridge.  MA  01266:  413/ 
298-4413. 

Poughkeepsie:  Denise  C.  Gorski  '75:  23  Sun- 
nvbrook  Circle.  Highland.  NY  12528:  914  691- 
8928. 

Raleigh/Durham:  Mark  S  Richards  '73;  11  Polks 
Landing.  Chapel  Hill.  NC  27514:  919  933-1469. 


Rochester  Genesee:  Harrv  A.  Hoven.  Jr.  '63: 
593  St.  Rita's  Court.  Webster.  NY  14580;  716 
671-2625. 

St.  Louis:  William  C.  Rogler.  Jr.  '57:  12937 
Lampadaire  Dr..  St.  Louis.  MO  63141:  314 
878-5483. 

Springfield:  David  O.  Scott  '74;  15  Mallowhill 
Road.  Springfield.  MA  01129:  413  736-5999. 

Syracuse:  Steven  J.  Silva  '76:  5344  Amalfi  Dr.. 
Clay.  NY  13041;  315  699-9292. 

S.  New  Hampshire:  Stanley  W.  Graveline  '58: 
35  Monica  St..  Nashua.  NH  03060:  603  888- 

1474. 

Tri-Citv:  Michael  J.  Herbere  '80:  301  3rd  St.. 
Apt.  3.  Troy.  NY  12180:  518/272-1220. 

Washington,  D.C.:  Davis  S.  Watson  46:  13223 
Hathawav  Dr..  Silver  Spring.  MD  20906:  301/ 
949-6135.' 

Wilmington:  Harold  F.  DeCarli  '52:  2405  Lan- 
don  Drive.  Wilmington.  DE  19810:  302  478- 
3530. 

Worcester:  Timothy  J.  Mackie  '70;  15  Sharon 
Drive.  Princeton.  MA  01541:  617  464-2692. 


Roger  W.  Bruce,  '36,  a  retired  vice  president 
of  Persons-Majestic  Mfg.  Co..  Worcester,  died 
in  March.  A  native  of  Toronto.  Canada,  he 
was  born  on  Sept.  27.  1914. 

He  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer.  For 
many  years  he  was  with  American  Steel  &  Wire 
(now  U.S.  Steel.  Cable  Division).  Worcester, 
from  which  he  retired  as  general  superinten- 
dent in  1972.  During  World  War  II  he  served 
as  a  captain  in  the  Air  Force  Signal  Corps.  He 
belonged  to  SAE. 

Mr.  Bruce  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Worcester  County  Republican  Club  and  the 
Worcester  Area  Mental  Health  Association. 
(The  Association's  health  center  is  called  the 
R.  W.  Bruce  Health  Center.)  He  was  a  former 
member  of  the  Worcester  Planning  Board  and 
Central  Massachusetts  Regional  Planning 
Commission. 

Herbert  W.  Shaw,  Jr.,  '40,  a  former  insurance 
executive,  died  January  21.  1983.  in  Morris- 
town.  NJ.  at  the  age  of  64.  He  was  born  in 
Milford.  MA. 

Mr.  Shaw,  an  electrical  engineer,  retired  as 
executive  vice  president  of  the  American  Re- 
Insurance  Company  in  New  York  City  in  1981. 
Prior  to  joining  the  company  in  1963.  he  had 
been  with  Springfield  Fire  &  Marine.  Hutch- 
inson Rivinus  &  Co.  and  the  Factory  Insurance 
Association. 

In  World  War  II  he  served  as  a  lieutenant 
in  the  South  Pacific  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and  the  Meth- 
odist Church. 

William  C,  Richardson,  '41,  of  Troy.  VA,  a 
class  agent,  died  on  February  5.  1983.  He  was 
born  in  Worcester  on  March  25.  1919. 

A  mechanical  engineer,  he  was  with  New- 


port News  Shipbuilding  and  Dry  Dock  Co. .  the 
U.S.  Navy  Dept.  of  Public  Works,  and  for  four 
years  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force,  being 
discharged  as  captain.  For  thirty  years  he  was 
an  employee  of  American  Telephone  &  Tel- 
egraph's Long  Lines  Dept.  He  retired  as  an 
estimate  engineer. 

Mr.  Richardson  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha,  and  he  was  active  in  Scouting  and  church 
work.  He  was  past  president  of  the  Philadel- 
phia chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Charles  C.  Shattuck,  '45,  an  engineer  for  Nu- 
clear Metals,  Inc..  died  in  Concord.  MA.  on 
January  30,  1983.  at  the  age  of  59.  He  was  a 
native  of  Wellesley. 

Following  graduation  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  employed  by  GE.  A.  C.  Nielsen 
Co. .  Time-O-Matic.  Inc. .  Titeflex  Co.  and  Nu- 
clear Metals. 

He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 
and  the  American  Society  for  Quality  Control, 
and  he  was  active  in  Scouting.  Other  mem- 
berships were  with  the  Sons  of  the  American 
Revolution  and  the  National  Association  of 
Clocks  and  Watches. 

Donald  H.  Gilmore,  '46,  former  controller  for 
Rodney  Hunt  Co..  Orange.  MA.  died  in 
Worcester  on  March  24.  1983.  He  was  born  in 
Orange  on  Oct.  30.  1925. 

A  mechanical  engineer,  from  1947  to  1952 
he  was  with  WPI's  Alden  Hydraulic  Labora- 
tory, after  which  he  joined  Parker  &  Harper 
Mfg.  Co..  Worcester.  During  World  War  II  he 
was  a  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Navy.  He  was  in 
the  USNR  for  20  years. 

Mr.  Gilmore.  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer, belonged  to  SPE.  and  was  a  past  master 
of  his  local  Masonic  lodee.  He  was  also  asso- 


ciated with  the  Knights  Templar,  the  Eastern 
Star  and  the  Rainbow  Girls. 

Charles  H.  Rollins,  '48,  died  in  Worcester  on 
December  24.  1982.  A  Worcester  native,  he 
was  born  on  December  6.  1927.  He  belonged 
to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

After  studying  chemistry  at  WPI.  he  entered 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  and  received 
his  BA  in  1950.  He  had  served  as  foreman  for 
the  Norton  Company  Refractories  Division  in- 
spection department  in  Worcester. 

Prof.  Leon  S.  Bedard,  '64,  of  Westminster.  MA. 
passed  away  on  February  18.  1983.  He  was  50. 

He  was  born  in  Fitchburg.  later  receiving  his 
BS  from  Lowell  and  his  MSEE  from  WPI.  He 
taught  at  Worcester  Junior  College  and  Lowell 
Technical  Institute.  At  the  time  of  his  death. 
he  was  a  professor  in  the  Science  and  Tech- 
nology Division  of  Mount  Wachusett  Com- 
munity College  in  Gardner. 

Prof.  Bedard  was  a  registered,  professional 
engineer  and  a  past  president  of  the  Cable  Club 
of  Fitchburg.  as  well  as  a  member  of  St.  Ed- 
ward the  Confessor  Church.  He  served  with 
the  Air  Force  during  the  Korean  conflict. 

Dr.  Joel  B.  Kameron.  '67.  of  Fairlawn.  NJ. 
died  recently. 

A  native  of  New  Bedford.  MA.  he  was  born 
on  January  6.  1946.  and  graduated  with  his 
BSEE  from  WPI.  He  received  his  MA  in  psy- 
chology from  the  University  of  Michigan  and 
his  PhD  in  environmental  psychology  from  City 
University  of  New  York. 

Dr.  Kameron  had  taught  at  Paterson  State 
College.  Wayne.  NJ.  prior  to  his  current  post 
as  assistant  professor  at  Ramapo  State  College 
in  Mahwah.  He  belonged  to  AEP  and  PME. 


Some  things  change. 

Some  don't. 

You,  for  instance.  And  WPI,  too 

See  you  at  Homecoming  on  the  Hill. 
And  Reunion  Weekend  for  the  classes 
of  '68,  '73  and  '78.  Plan  now  to  attend! 


u 


7*5 


..     .   -v 


■ 


- 


■ 


r  •    r » 


' 


Tech  Old«Timebf  25~Yeai$  ¥burig 
TheT^turaof  Computer  Graphics 


A  MESSAGE 


From  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56, 
Alumni  Association  President 


Autumn  is  upon  us  once  again.  And 
with  it  Boynton  Hill  has  shifted  into 
high  gear  from  summer's  more  leisurely 
pace  to  the  excitement  and  anticipation  of 
the  new  school  year.  Our  Alumni  Associa- 
tion, which  I  am  privileged  to  lead  this 
year,  is  back  into  the  swing  of  things,  too. 
We  are  now  putting  into  action  the  pro- 
grams which  we  hope  will  continue  the 
outstanding  growth  and  progress  made  by 
the  Association  in  the  past  few  years. 

Much  of  this  growth  is  due  to  the  crea- 
tive, prudent  and  untiring  leadership  of 
Peter  Horstmann,  '55,  whose  term  as 
president  concluded  in  June.  The  Associa- 
tion and  the  WPI  community  owe  a  large 
debt  of  gratitude  to  Peter  and  his  program 
chairmen  for  the  tremendous  gains  made 
during  their  tenure.  For  example, 

•  The  Alumni  Admissions  Program  is 
now  active  in  29  regions,  with  more  than 
400  volunteers.  In  this  program,  alumni 
contact  high  school  students  interested  in 
WPI  and  represent  the  Institute  at  college 
fairs  across  the  country. 

•  Regional  Club  programs  have  in- 
creased dramatically;  there  is  now  activity 
in  35  areas  of  the  country. 

•  Through  the  efforts  of  the  Student 
Alumni  Society,  the  Alden  Carillon  was 
refurbished  just  before  Christmas  1982. 
These  students*also  saw  to  it  that  the  Tech 
Bible  was  printed  for  the  first  time  since 
1968.  They  held  a  reception  in  the  fall  of 
1982  for  the  incoming  freshman  sons  and 
daughters  of  alumni,  and  they  now  present 
a  class  banner  to  each  incoming  freshman 
class. 

•  Reunion  and  Homecoming  planning 
over  the  past  three  years  has  resulted  in 
record  attendance  each  year. 

•  Staffing  needs  of  the  Alumni  Office 
were  studied,  and  recommendations  en- 
dorsed by  the  Alumni  Council  have  been 
made  to  President  Cranch. 

Yet  the  single  most  significant  accom- 
plishment of  the  last  few  years  is  what 
alumni  have  done  for  the  college  through 
their  gifts  to  the  Alumni  Fund.  Your  con- 
tinuing support  has  boosted  the  Fund  to 


$841,000  in  1983  and  has  brought  the  an- 
nual participation  level  to  just  over  40  per- 
cent. This  extraordinary  support  by  WPI 
alumni  has  brought  national  recognition  to 
the  college  throughout  the  past  decade 
from  the  Council  for  the  Advancement  and 
Support  of  Education  (CASE).  Only  two 
other  colleges  have  received  the  same  high 
accolades. 

Such  outstanding  performance  in  so 
many  areas  creates  a  double-edged  sword 
for  the  future.  It's  a  tough  act  to  follow, 
but  high  performance  provides  the  basis 
and  momentum  needed  to  move  the 
alumni  program  to  new  heights.  Every 
alumni  program  aims  to  increase  alumni 
awareness  and  to  enhance  the  image  of 
WPI  and  alumni  pride  in  their  alma  mater. 
Further,  we  hope  to  increase  alumni  sup- 
port of  the  college,  both  through  participa- 
tion in  these  programs  and  through  contin- 
ued growth  in  the  Alumni  Fund,  which  is 
expected  to  top  $1  million  this  year. 

Numerous  other  programs,  both  on  and 
off  campus,  are  designed  to  keep  alumni 
in  contact  with  their  alma  mater  and  in- 
deed to  help  shape  the  college's  future. 
These  include: 

•  The  Corporate  Contacts  Program,  in 
which  WPI  alumni  employed  by  any  of  18 
companies  have  an  active  program  for  in- 


volvement and  a  readily  available  channel 
for  communication. 

•  The  Citations  Committee  continues 
to  recognize  and  honor  deserving  alumni 
and  is  developing  yet  other  ways  of  citing 
the  accomplishments  of  our  alumni. 

•  At  Homecoming  in  October,  the  WPI 
Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  was  launched  with 
the  induction  of  eight  charter  members, 
six  of  them  alumni.  This  was  the  result  of 
many  years  of  effort  by  alumni  involved 
with  the  Poly  Club. 

•  Our  Publications  Committee  provides 
counsel  to  the  editor  of  the  WPI  Journal  to 
assure  our  alumni  a  consistently  high-qual- 
ity publication,  bringing  alumni  knowl- 
edge of,  and  pride  in,  their  alma  mater  and 
their  fellow  alumni. 

•  The  Public  Relations  Committee  has 
set  its  sights  on  developing  ways  to  in- 
crease the  attention  WPI  receives  from  the 
media  across  the  country,  thus  enhancing* 
and  broadening  WPI's  image  and  reputa- 
tion everywhere. 

•  Alumni  are  becoming  more  active  on 
campus  by  participating  in  both  technical 
and  non-technical  seminars,  by  working 
with  the  Student  Alumni  Society  and  by 
providing  assistance  in  many  of  the  aca- 
demic projects  students  undertake. 

I  hope  from  this  brief  overview  that  you 
can  sense  the  magnitude  of  the  activity 
taking  place  in  the  Alumni  Association 
and  with  the  alumni  programs.  More  im- 
portantly, I  hope  you  share  my  pride  in 
WPI  and  my  enthusiasm  for  the  1983-84 
year  and  the  years  beyond.  If  you  are  not 
already  involved,  I  invite  you  to  take  a 
first  step  and  become  involved  in  the  pro- 
grams in  your  local  area.  And  plan  to 
attend  Homecoming  or  your  class  reunion. 

If  I  can  be  of  any  assistance,  by  provid- 
ing, for  instance,  information  about  pro- 
grams in  your  local  area,  please  feel  free 
to  contact  me  by  dropping  me  a  line,  c/o 
the  WPI  Alumni  Office.  I'll  be  pleased  to 
respond.  WPI,  our  Alumni  Association 
and  our  programs  are  only  as  strong  as 
we— each  individual  alumnus— make 
them. 


WPLJournal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUMES?,  NUMBER  2 


Staff  of  The  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sam- 
uel W.  Mencow,  '37;  Roger  W.  Miles,  '69; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  '75. 

77??  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-12,  29-40  ®  1983, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI  ® 
1983,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Business  Manager, 
Robert  Hewes;  Production  Coordinator,  Wendy 
Williams-Hauck;  Designer,  Allen  Carroll. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Gerald  Eckert  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.  J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Donald  F. 
Berth.  CHE  '57.  MS  CHE  '59.  and  Kenneth  L. 
McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  BG  Compo- 
sition; Printing,  American  Press,  Inc. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


NOVEMBER  1983 


4  Ruggers  in  Paradise,  Jamaican  Style 
WPI's  men's  and  women's  rugby  teams  had 
quite  a  time  on  the  sunny  isle. 

5  Winter  Sports  Schedule 

6  What  You  Think  of  Us 

Results  of  the  Alumni  Readership  Survey. 
Kenneth  McDonnell 

8  Applab  Flight  2610  Now  Boarding 

Where  ME  students  get  to  fly  into  the  future  of 
computer  graphics. 
Michael  Shanley 

10  Happy  25th  Anniversary, 
Tech  Old-Timers 

Our  "oldest"  club  is  also  one  of  our 
youngest  at  heart. 
Ruth  Trask 

I  A  Good  Student  is  Harder  to  Find 

As  the  number  of  college-age  students  drops, 
U.S.  universities  and  colleges  step  up  their 
recruiting  efforts. 
Mary  Ruth  Yoe 

VIII  Weather  Watching 

1983's  unlikely  weather  has  made 
climatologists  question  their  predictive  models. 
Meanwhile  meteorologists  work  at 
perfecting  forecasts. 
Diane  Johnson 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 
Class  Notes        29 
Completed  Careers        38 


Page  4 


Page 


\ 


Vi 


V 


Page  10 


M 


^:-' 


Page  VIII 

Cover:  Lengthening  shadows  on  the  practice  field  and  summer's 
greens  turning  to  autumn's  reds  and  golds  are  a  frosty  reminder 
of  days  to  come.  Photo  by  Michael  Carroll. 


NOVEMBER  1983        1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Class  of  '87  Sets 
Enrollment  Mark 

In  the  face  of  a  shrinking  college-age  pop- 
ulation nationally.  WPI's  undergraduate 
enrollment  is  at  an  all-time  high,  accord- 
ing to  Roy  A.  Seaberg.  Jr.,  '56,  Director 
of  Admissions.  In  September,  while  many 
colleges,  especially  small  liberal  arts 
schools,  struggled  to  attract  qualified 
freshmen.  WPI  seemed  about  to  burst  at 
the  seams  as  it  welcomed  670  members  of 
the  class  of  1987.  This  performance,  says 
Seaberg.  is  a  ringing  endorsement  of 
WPI's  broadening  reputation  for  preparing 
tomorrow's  engineers,  scientists  and  citi- 
zens. 

Overall,  says  Registrar  Robert  Long. 
2.605  students  registered  for  classes  on 
August  29.  the  first  time  enrollment  has 
topped  the  2.600  mark.  A  declining  rate  of 
nonreturning  upperclassmen.  coupled  with 
the  record  freshman  class,  accounts  for 
this  unusually  large  enrollment,  he  says. 

During  the  past  year.  2,335  high  school 
students  applied  for  admission;  WPI  ac- 
cepted 1,425.  Some  85  accepted,  "early 
decision"  candidates  decided  prior  to  De- 
cember 31,  1982,  that  WPI  was  their  first 
choice.  In  all,  the  yield— the  percentage  of 
accepted  candidates  who  decided  to  ma- 
triculate, less  early  decision  candidates- 
was  more  than  45  percent. 

A  cross  section  of  the  freshman  class 
shows  exceptional  academic  achievement, 
resourcefulness  and  diverse  backgrounds 
and  interests.  On  average,  entering  fresh- 
men ranked  in  the  top  9  percent  of  their 
high  school  senior  classes.  Average  SAT 
scores  were  650  math  and  540  verbal, 
compared  with  the  national  average  of  470 
math,  435  verbal.  Seventy-three  percent  of 
the  '87  class  participated  in  high  school 
sports,  and  31  percent  took  part  in  high 
school  publications  like  newspapers,  year- 
books and  literary  organizations. 

A  significant  shift,  says  Seaberg.  is  the 
welcomed  upsurge  in  applicants  from  pri- 
vate and  parochial  schools.  Applications 
among  these  students  were  up  by  6  per- 


cent; the  yield  jumped  by  more  than  30 
percent.  In  addition,  at  least  80  percent  of 
freshmen  have  held  summer  jobs,  and 
some  70  percent  have  worked  part  time 
during  the  school  year. 

Yet  while  this  year's  admissions  results 
paint  a  rosy  picture,  demographic  trends 
for  the  coming  decade  will  force  even 
greater  competition  with  other  selective 
schools  for  a  declining  number  of  high- 
quality  candidates. 

"We're  moving  now  to  respond  to  those 
trends,"  says  Robert  F.  Reeves.  Vice  Pres- 
ident for  Student  Affairs,  "so  that  we  can 
minimize  the  impact  of  a  rapid  and  far- 
reaching  downward  shift  in  the  number  of 
18-year-olds  across  the  nation,  and  espe- 
cially in  New  England." 

Capital  Program 
Goes  Over  the  Top 

"We  have  every  reason  to  celebrate!" 
Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40,  WPI  Trustee  and 
Chairman  of  the  Capital  Program,  ex- 
claimed in  his  closing  report.  "We  have 
exceeded  our  goals  by  over  $2  million." 

Launched  in  1979,  the  Capital  Program 
had  an  original  goal  of  $13.2  million.  In 
1981.  Forkey  reports,  in  light  of  an  antici- 
pated need  for  additional  funding  for  the 
Washburn  and  Atwater  Kent  renovations, 
the  goal  was  revised  to  $15.7  million.  On 
June  30  of  this  year,  at  the  Program's  con- 
clusion. WPI  had  received  commitments 
amounting  to  more  than  $17.7  million. 

Aside  from  funding  major  renovations 
of  Washburn  Shops  (Mechanical  Engi- 
neering) and  Atwater  Kent  Laboratories 
(Electrical  Engineering),  the  Program's 
primary  objectives  were  to  improve  Strat- 
ton  Hall  (Mathematical  Sciences)  and  the 
athletic  fields,  as  well  as  to  increase  both 
the  college's  endowment  and  operational 
support. 

"Our  strategy,"  says  Forkey,  "was  to 
conduct  a  targeted  campaign  to  a  small, 
well-defined  audience,  focusing  on  foun- 
dations, corporations,  trustees  and  a  small 
group  of  major  gift  prospects."  The  school 


also  invited  alumni  to  increase  their  sup- 
port to  the  Alumni  Fund,  he  says. 

During  each  year  of  the  Program, 
alumni  set  records  for  both  dollars  pledged 
and  percentage  participation.  In  the  1978- 
79  academic  year,  the  Fund  raised  almost 
$576,000  from  4,500  donors.  "This  past 
year,"  says  Fund  Board  Chairman  Gerald 
Finkle,  '57,  "some  5,580  alumni  made 
gifts  totaling  $841,032."  Through  their 
gifts,  he  says,  WPI  alumni  have  ranked  in 
the  top  2  percent  nationally  in  triggering 
matching  corporate  gifts  on  a  per  capita 
basis. 

A  breakdown  of  the  campaign's  results 
reveals  that  capital  funds  committed  to  the 
Program  totaled  nearly  $12  million, 
against  an  original  goal  of  $1 1.4  million. 
This  amount,  however,  fell  short  of  the 
revised  goal  of  $12.8  million. 

A  number  of  capital  objectives  under- 
went substantial  change  during  the  Pro- 
gram. Forkey  says.  The  Atwater  Kent 
project,  for  instance,  started  as  a  renova- 
tion but  was  completed  as  a  total  rehabili- 
tation, including  an  addition  for  Computer 
Science,  calling  for  funds  of  $3.5  million 
against  an  original  goal  of  $2.02  million. 

The  Washburn  project  also  changed 
from  renovation  of  the  Shops  alone  to  re- 
furbishing the  Laboratories  as  well,  plus 
construction  of  a  three-story  addition. 

Besides  the  Washburn  and  Atwater  Kent 
programs,  capital  projects  successfully 
funded  by  the  Program  include  Kaven  Hall 
(Civil  Engineering),  the  Computer-Aided- 
Design  (CAD)  Lab.  equipment  for  Atwa- 
ter Kent  and  other  facilities,  endowment, 
and  unrestricted  gifts. 

A  vital  and  often  overlooked  element  of 
WPI's  fund-raising  effort,  says  Forkey.  is 
its  Planned  Giving  and  Bequest  Programs. 
During  the  campaign,  WPI  identified  an 
additional  45  alumni  and  friends  who  have 
informed  the  school  that  WPI  is  in  their 
wills,  bringing  this  total  to  some  200  de- 
clared expectancies. 

In  addition,  the  school  now  has  on  the 
books  irrevocable  trusts  representing  an 
additional  $5.5  million  that  will  mature  to 
the  college. 


2       WPI  JOURNAL 


"Volunteer  support."  Forkey  contends, 
"was  a  key  ingredient  of  the  Program's 
success.  Whenever  we  called  upon  trust- 
ees or  alumni  for  assistance  in  solicita- 
tions, introductions  or  simply  advocating 
our  cause,  we  were  not  once  refused!" 

While  celebration  is  indeed  in  order 
throughout  the  WPI  community,  Forkey 
hastens  to  mention  that  several  Program 
objectives  have  not  yet  been  fully  funded. 
For  example,  because  of  the  overwhelm- 
ing importance  of  upgrading  and  expand- 
ing academic  facilities  in  Atwater  Kent 
and  Washburn,  construction  of  a  Central 
Services  building  was  removed  from  the 
objectives,  and  improvement  of  playing 
fields  has  not  yet  been  funded.  In  addition, 
funds  are  needed  for  latest-generation 
equipment  for  Materials  Processing  and 
Manufacturing  Labs  as  well  as  the  soon- 
to-be-completed  Washburn  Shops/Labs. 

But  Forkey  is  optimistic  that  by  year's 
end.  some  $250,000  to  $300,000  will  be 
secured  for  these  purposes.  What  is  more, 
he  says,  very  soon  gifts  approaching  $1 
million  should  be  committed  for  vital  im- 
provements to  playing  fields. 

"There  was  no  magic  in  raising  the  Cap- 
ital Program's  outstanding  level  of  funds," 
Forkey  concludes.  "The  strength  of  our 
academic  programs,  the  commitment  of 
our  faculty,  and  the  loyalty  of  our  alumni 
and  trustees  were  the  central  factors 
contributing  to  our  success.  We  heartily 
thank  each  of  you." 


The  Annual  Fund 
Keeps  Breaking  Records 

Making  and  breaking  news  is  exciting, 
and  the  1982-83  Alumni  Fund  did  just 
that.  On  June  30th,  as  the  Fund  year 
ended,  alumni  participation  reached  40.32 
percent,  the  highest  level  ever.  This  figure 
represents  a  rate  of  participation  that  is  21 
percent  higher  than  the  national  average! 

At  the  same  time,  a  record  cash  figure  of 
$841,032  in  alumni  gifts  was  recorded  for 
the  annual  giving  program. 

"Fantastic!"  was  the  response  of  out- 
going Fund  Board  Chairman  Henry 
Styskal,  Jr.,  '50,  when  he  heard  the  news. 
He  credited  the  success  to  the  diligent  ef- 
forts of  his  fellow  Fund  Board  members, 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53;  Gerald  Finkle, 
'57;  Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65;  Allen  H. 
Levesque,  '59;  C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr., 
'39;  Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59;  and  John 
M.  Tracy,  '52,  who  organized  the  nearly 
1,300  alumni  and  student  volunteers  for 
the  Fund.  "WPI  alumni  volunteers  just 
keep  on  giving  of  both  their  time  and  fi- 


nancial resources.  That's  remarkable!" 
added  Styskal. 

But  the  icing  on  the  cake  was  receiving 
word  from  CASE  (Council  for  the  Ad- 
vancement and  Support  of  Education)  in 
May  that  WPI  would  receive  three  CASE 
recognition  awards  for  the  Fund:  two  ex- 
ceptional achievement  awards  for  im- 
provement in  financial  support  and  match- 
ing gifts,  and  a  citation  for  its  direct  mail 
program.  In  conveying  its  congratulations, 
CASE  noted  that  the  Fund  program  "re- 
flects one  of  the  strongest  annual  fund  pro- 
grams in  the  nation." 

Alumni  and  student  volunteers  persua- 
sively convinced  alumni  to  contribute 
$841,032  in  individual  gifts.  Leading  the 
effort  were  the  classes  of  '33.  '43  and  '58. 
which  collectively  contributed  $326,022 
through  anniversary  gift  programs  over  a 
three-year  period.  (And  82.5  percent  of 
the  members  of  the  Class  of  '33  joined  in 
that  effort.)  Gifts  from  these  classes  will 
be  restricted  to  projects  in  Washburn  Labs 
and  Shop. 

Other  highlights  of  the  Fund  year: 

•This  year  was  the  best  ever  for  contri- 
butions made  through  corporate  matching 
gift  programs.  A  record  $255,556  in  funds 
was  received  from  291  corporations  that 
matched  gifts  made  by  WPI  alumni  who 
are  employed  by  those  corporations. 

•A  new  Fund  program.  Major  Gifts,  re- 
sulted in  $125,272  from  74  alumni.  Cou- 
pled with  the  additional  $76,869  in  gifts  at 
the  President's  Advisory  Council  level, 
these  two  Fund  segments  accounted  for  24 
percent  of  the  campaign's  total. 

•The  five  year  reunion  classes  of  '28, 
'38.  '48,  '53,  '63,  '68.  '73  and  "78  con- 
tributed $111,121,  a  remarkable  34.6  per- 
cent increase  over  their  collective  class 
gifts  to  the  1981-82  Fund. 

•Two  hundred  student  volunteers  re- 
corded 1,446  pledges  for  $57,727  during 
eight  evenings  of  phonathons  in  April— an 
all-time  record.  In  fact.  Phi  Sigma  Sigma, 
the  college's  four  year  old  sorority,  raised 
the  largest  amount  in  one  evening— $8,694 
from  224  alumni. 

"The  most  rewarding  part  of  the  entire 
program."  says  Fund  Managing  Director 
Sharon  C.  Davis,  "is  the  important  work 
the  college  can  do  as  a  result  of  annual 
giving."  For  example,  an  additional  100 
students  will  be  supported  this  year 
through  gifts  made  to  the  Fund.  Many  of 
these  students  could  not  have  attended 
WPI  without  this  additional  aid.  "Making 
these  opportunities  possible  is  exciting, 
and  sharing  such  good  news  with  you,  our 
alumni,  is  the  fun  part!  Thanks  for  making 
it  possible." 


Alumnus  to  Serve  as 
WPI  Vice  President 

Effective  September  1.  Donald  F  Berth. 
'57  CHE.  '59  MS  CHE.  became  Vice 
President  for  University  Relations  at  WPI. 
He  succeeds  Thomas  J.  Denney,  who  as- 
sumed the  post  of  Vice  Chancellor  for 
Alumni  and  Development  Programs  at 
Washington  University.  St.  Louis. 

In  his  new  appointment.  Berth  will  man- 
age all  college  development  and  fund  rais- 
ing, alumni  relations,  public  and  press  re- 
lations, and  publications. 

In  joining  the  WPI  staff.  Berth  leaves  a 
20-year  career  at  Cornell  University.  Most 
recently  he  held  the  post  of  Associate 
Dean  of  Engineering,  serving  as  chief  de- 
velopment officer  of  the  College  of  Engi- 
neering. Since  joining  Cornell  in  1962.  he 
has  held  a  number  of  positions,  including 
co-director  of  the  engineering  cooperative 
program  and  director  of  engineering  proj- 
ects. He  was  founding  editor  of  Engineer- 
ing: Cornell  Quarterly,  a  highly  respected 
college  magazine  reporting  on  Cornell  re- 
search and  engineering  college  activities. 
He  also  directed  the  engineering  school's 
centennial  celebration  in  1971. 

From  1971  to  1973,  Berth  was  director 
of  development  and  public  relations  at 
Hampshire  College,  Amherst. 

In  following  the  recommendations  of  a 
search  committee  composed  of  faculty, 
staff  and  alumni.  President  Cranch  said  of 
the  Berth  appointment.  "We  are  pleased  to 
welcome  Don  back  to  the  WPI  campus. 
His  wide-ranging  experience  in  engineer- 
ing higher  education,  development  and 
public  relations,  and  his  familiarity  with 
WPI  and  its  alumni  are  just  the  combina- 
tion of  qualifications  we  sought.  And 
while  he  has  resided  in  Ithaca  [NY]  for 
nearly  two  decades,  he  still  considers  him- 
self a  New  Englander.  with  roots  in 
Wilbraham.  MA." 

Berth  has  served  in  several  alumni  ca- 
pacities at  WPI.  He  has  been  an  Alumni 
Council  representative  and  National 
Chairman  of  the  Alumni  Secondary 
School  Organization,  as  well  as  a  member 
of  the  nominating  committee  for  Associa- 
tion officers  and  a  member  of  the  Publica- 
tions Advisory  Committee. 

Denney.  who  joined  WPI  in  1971,  man- 
aged two  highly  successful  capital  pro- 
grams, the  most  recent  concluding  this 
past  June  30  (see  story,  previous  page).  In 
this  five-year  program,  the  goal  of  $15.7 
million  was  surpassed  by  more  than  $2 
million,  with  some  $17.7  million  commit- 
ted to  date. 


NOVEMBER  1983        3 


WPI  SPORTS 


Ruggers  in  Paradise, 
Jamaican  Style 

Back  in  1870,  as  WPI's  Pioneer  Class  was 
entering  its  junior  year,  universities  like 
Harvard,  Yale,  Columbia  and  McGill 
were  experimenting  with  a  sport  new  to 
Americans— rugby.  In  fact,  it  was  from 
rugby,  whose  roots  lie  in  Europe,  that 
Yale's  Walter  Camp  fashioned  a  similar 
yet  wholly  new  sport,  the  one  which  for 
countless  millions  of  Americans  is  autumn 
Saturday  and  Sunday  afternoons:  football. 

To  this  day  a  sport  relatively  unknown 
to  many  Americans,  rugby  arrived  on  the 
WPI  campus  in  1981  as  a  club  sport,  at- 
tracting, as  it  does  wherever  it  is  played  in 
the  U.S.,  a  loyal  cadre  of  players  and  few 
spectators.  WPI's  normal  schedule  in- 
cludes club  teams  from  Eastern  colleges 
like  Harvard,  MIT  and  RPI.  Until  last 
spring,  that  is,  when  the  WPI  ruggers  jour- 
neyed (at  their  own  expense)  to  sunny  Ja- 
maica to  face  several  of  the  island's  best 
clubs,  including  the  Jamaican  national 
team. 

During  what  was  in  Worcester  a  dreary 
week  late  in  March,  Professor  Herbert 
Beall,  CH,  rugby  club  faculty  advisor  and 
coach,  escorted  his  WPI  ruggers  through 
three  matches  of  international  competi- 
tion. Between  games,  the  team  enjoyed 
the  hospitality  of  Jamaican  team  members, 
swam  the  Caribbean's  gorgeous  lagoons, 
and  saw  the  island's  sights. 

"Our  arrival,"  recalls  Beall.  "made  Ja- 
maican television,  as  did  three  of  our 
games.  Two  we  won,"  he  adds,  "the  other 
we  lost." 

Jamaica  may  seem  a  long  way  from 
Worcester  for  a  rugby  game.  Actually,  the 
contact  was  made  by  Beall  back  in  1974, 
when,  on  sabbatical  in  New  Zealand,  he 
met  Professor  Tony  Greenaway,  who  now 
teaches  chemistry  at  Kingston's  University 
of  the  West  Indies.  He  also  plays  on  the 
Jamaican  national  team,  the  Barbarians. 

WPI  trounced  the  Jamaican  Army  team, 
44-0,  and  won  handily  over  the  Chair- 
man's 15,  the  national  "B"  team,  by  a 


WPI  ruggers  scrimmage  against  the  Jamaican  Army  team,  left  to  right:  Jim 
Pouliopoulos ,  Andy  Bruno,  Bill  Lamberti,  Bob  Hansen. 


score  of  28-3.  But  the  National  "A"  team, 
whose  regular  matches  take  them  through- 
out the  Caribbean,  handed  WPI  a  22-9 
loss.  ".  .  .A  solid  game  for  us,"  Beall 
says,  "but  they  beat  us  fair  and  square." 

It  was  in  the  Chairman's  15  game  that 
Beall 's  wife,  Barbara,  served  as  a  referee, 
an  event  that  raised  more  than  a  few  Ja- 
maican eyebrows.  A  union  referee  for 
New  England  rugby,  her  appearance  in  the 
Jamaican  stadium,  a  setting  Herb  fondly 
refers  to  as  reminiscent  of  a  Kipling  novel, 
was  unusual  to  say  the  least,  for  she  be- 
came the  first  woman  ever  to  referee  a 
Jamaican  rugby  match. 

Half-time  festivities  may  have  raised  a 
few  American  eyebrows  as  well,  for  it  was 
then  and  there— on  the  playing  field— that 
Jamaican  children  grazed  their  goats! 

Later,  prior  to  the  men's  game  with  the 
Barbarians,  WPI's  women's  team  played 
the  Jamaican  Amazons.  But  since  wom- 
en's rugby  is  unknown  in  Jamaica,  WPI's 
24-0  win  came  against  Jamaican  women 
who  had  never  before  played  the  game.  At 
home,  WPI  women  face  schools  such  as 


Mount  Holyoke.  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut and  Holy  Cross. 

WPI's  men's  team  is  led  by  brothers 
Carlos,  '84,  and  Rolando,  '86,  Zuccolillo, 
whose  home  is  Paraguay.  Carlos,  the  team 
captain,  helped  Beall  get  rugby  off  the 
ground  at  WPI.  and  Rolando  has  played 
on  the  Paraguayan  national  team. 

One  big  difference  between  rugby  and 
football.  Beall  contends,  is  the  strictly 
amateur  status  of  all  ruggers— worldwide. 

Another  characteristic  of  ruggers  that 
seems  universal  is  their  love  of  a  rousing 
party  after  every  game— not  just  among 
team  members,  but  among  players  from 
both  the  winning  and  losing  teams.  Keen 
competition  on  the  field  gives  way  typi- 
cally to  kegs  of  beer,  singing  of  songs  and 
a  sense  of  community  that  transcends 
team,  national,  language  and  race  bounda- 
ries. 

"It's  a  rough  sport,  this  rugby,"  Beall 
concludes,  "yet  when  the  game's  over,  it's 
the  experience,  the  friends  we've  made 
and  the  healthy  competition  that  we  recall, 
not  so  much  who  won  and  who  lost." 


4       WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  1983-84  Winter  Sports  Schedule 

Varsity 

Basketball 

24              Nichols 
27             Trinity 
30             Suffolk 

Home 
Home 
Home 

6:00 
7:00 
7:00 

Date 

Opponent 

Home/Away 

Time 

3 1              Wheaton 

Home 

7:00 

December 

February 

2-3 

Worcester  Four  Home  Fed- 

Home 

6:00  and 

3    '         Colby 

Home 

6:00 

eral  Savings  Classic 

8:00 

8              Brandeis 

Away 

7:00 

Tournament  (Clark. 

10             Bates 

Home 

7:00 

Nichols,  Worcester  State) 

1  1              Babson 

Home 

4:00 

6 

Babson 

Away 

7 

30 

14              Amherst 

Away 

7:00 

8 

Wesleyan 

Away 

8 

00 

16              M.I.T. 

Away 

6:00 

10 

Bowdoin 

Home 

4 

00 

19              Fitchburg  State 

Away 

6:00 

13 

Amherst 

Away 

8 

00 

2 1              Clark 

Home 

7:00 

January 

23-25           MAIAW 

WPI 

13 

Thomas 

Home 

7:00 

16 

Lowell 

Home 

8:00 

Wrestling 

20 

New  York  University 

Home 

7:30 

21 

Bates 

Home 

8:00 

Date                Opponent 

Home/ Away 

Time 

24 

Anna  Mana 

Home 

8:00 

November 

27 

Middlebury 

Away 

7:30 

28 

Norwich 

Away 

4:00 

2 1               Brown 

Away 

7:00 

31 
February 

3 

Trinity 

Coast  Guard  Academy 

Away 
Home 

8:00 
8:00 

30              Bowdoin 
December 

3              Tnnity/Norwich/Bridgewater 

Home 
Hartford.  CT 

7:30 
12:30 

8 

Williams 

Home 

8:00 

6              Boston  College 

Home 

7:00 

II 

Tufts 

Away 

8:00 

10              *Harvard/William&  Mar) 
UNH 

Away 

12:00 

16 

MIT. 

Away 
Away 

8:00 

18 

Suffolk 

2:00 

14              Plymouth  State 
January 

Home 

4:00 

20 

Brandeis 

Home 

8:00 

22 

Nichols 

Home 

8:00 

14"            RPI/Williams 

Home 

1:00 

25 
29 

Clark 

Connecticut  College 

Away 
Home 

8:00 
8:00 

18              Amherst 

2  1               Rhode  Island  College 

Away 
Awa) 

7:00 
1:00 

24              Western  New  England 

Away 

7:30 

Junior  Varsity  Basketball 

28              Lowell 
February 

Home 

2:00 

1    '          M.I.T. 

Away 

7:00 

Date 

Opponent 

Home/  Away 

Time 

4              Wesleyan/Hartford/Potsdam 

Home 

1:00 

December 

Coast  Guard  Academy 

Home 

7:00 

6 

Babson 

Away 

5:30 

8 

Wesleyan 

Away 

6:00 

Varsity  Swimming 

13 

Amherst 

Away 

6:00 

January 

Date                Opponent 

Home/Away 

Time 

31  " 
February 

4 

Trinity 

Worcester  Academy 

Away 

Away 

6:00 
4:00 

November 

30              Babson 
December 

Away 

7:00 

8 

Williams 

Home 

6:00 

11 
20 

Tufts 
Brandeis 

Away 
Home 

6:00 
6:00 

2               Holy  Cross 

Boston  College 
1 3              Clark 

Away 

Home 
Home 

7:00 
7:00 
7:00 

22 

Assumption 

Home 

6:00 

25 
29 

Clark 
W.I. T.I. 

Away 
Home 

6:00 
6:00 

January 

21  "            Lowell 

28              Coast  Guard  Academy 

Away 
Away 

2:00 
2:00 

Women's  Basketball 

February 

4              S.E.  Massachusetts 

Away 

2:00 

Date 

Opponent 

Home/Away 

Time 

University 
9              Trinits 

Home 

7:30 

December 

11               Tufts' 

Home 

2:00 

1 

Barrington 

Home 

7:00 

15              Bridgewater  State 

Away 

7:00 

8 

Emmanuel 

Awa) 

7:00 

18              Keene  State 

Home 

2:00 

10 

Bowdoin 

Home 

2:00 

22               Brandeis 

Away 

7:00 

12 

Western  New  England 

Awa> 

6:00 

14 

Rhode  Island  College 

Home 

7:00 

Winter  Track 

15 

Framingham  State 

Home 

7:00 

28 

Kean  College  Christmas 

Away 

6:00  and 

Date                Opponent 

Home/Away 

Time 

Tournament  (Kean. 
SUNY-Stony  Brook. 

8:00 

November 

30              Tufts 

Away 

6:00 

Upsala) 

December 

29 

Union  (New  Jersey) 

Away 

6:00  and 
8:00 

3              *M.I.T./Brandeis 

Awa) 

1:00 

10              Bentley 

Away 

1:00 

January 

February 

17" 

Anna  Maria 

Home 

7:00 

8              Hoi)  Cross/Worcester  State 

Awa) 

7:00 

19 

Gordon 

Away 

6:00 

21 

Merrimack 

Away 

2:00 

23 

Coast  Guard  Academy 

Away 

7:00 

*Home  Team 

NOVEMBER  1983 


What  You  Think  of  Us: 
Results  of  the  Alumni 
Readership  Survey 

One  thing  is  clear:  Our  alumni  readers  have  definite  ideas 
on  what  they'd  like  to  see  in  print. 

By  Kenneth  McDonnell 


^  ^  7ould  you  spend  $5  for  a  subscription  to  the  WPI  Jour- 

\j\Jnan  Wonder  how  many  of  your  fellow  alumni  would? 

T  TvVe  wondered  about  this  ourselves  and  about  a  score  of 
other  topics  concerning  alumni  attitudes  toward  two  of  the  publi- 
cations they  receive  regularly  from  their  alma  mater— the  Journal 
and  Newsbriefs,  WPI's  quarterly  newsletter. 

To  explore  readers'  sentiments,  we  conducted  a  telephone  sur- 
vey earlier  this  year.  For  three  evenings  at  the  Alumni  Office, 
some  75  student  volunteers  phoned  a  random  sample  of  600 
alumni  from  a  total  alumni  body  of  14,756.  In  all.  we  completed 
429  questionnaires,  or  71  percent  of  our  attempts. 

Well,  we  found  out  how  many  of  you  think  the  Journal  is  worth 
a  S5  subscription.  And  we  also  found  out  more  about  your  needs 
and  preferences  for  keeping  in  touch  with  WPI.  your  classmates 
and  your  friends  from  the  days  on  Boynton  Hill. 

Here's  how  we  conducted  the  study.  First,  we— the  Journal  and 
Newsbriefs  staffs,  the  Alumni  Publications  Committee  and  the 
Alumni  Office  folks— decided  what  we  wanted  to  learn  and  why. 
We  felt  that  we  ought  to  take  a  close  look  at  what  our  alumni  think 
of  the  Journal  and  Newsbriefs,  so  we  can  more  accurately  meet 
their  needs. 

Next  we  got  the  expert  advice  of  Professors  Joe  Petrucelli  and 
Sam  Woolford  of  the  Mathematics  Department  and  Leonard 
Goodwin  of  the  Social  Sciences  Department.  They  determined 
the  size  of  our  sample,  reviewed  our  questionnaire  and  got  us  off 
on  the  right  foot. 

We  recruited  and  trained  our  student  phoners  in  the  delicate 
science— and  art— of  attitudinal  surveying.  Their  enthusiasm  was 
fantastic!  Then  we  all  sat  down  at  the  phones  and  cranked  out  the 
calls. 

The  school's  computer  center  "crunched"  the  numbers  for  us, 
and  now  we're  reporting  them  to  you. 

A  couple  of  technical  notes:  We  divided  our  sample  into  four 
arbitrary  age  segments:  the  classes  of  '00-'37,  "38-'52,  '53-'67, 
and  '68-'82.  Incidentally,  43%  of  our  living  alumni  come  from 
the  classes  of  "68-'82,  26%  from  '53-'67,  16%  from  '38-'52, 
and  14%  from  '00- '37. 

The  poll  consisted  of  22  questions,  several  with  multiple  items, 
making  a  total  of  39  possible  responses.  A  few  open-ended  ques- 


tions were  included,  but  most  asked  the  sample  to  pick  from  a 
scale  of  possible  answers. 

Here's  what  we  learned  about  the  Journal— To  verify  our 
records,  we  asked  our  sample  to  tell  us  their  occupa- 
tions. Their  responses  (figures  rounded)  fell  into  the 
following  broad  categories:  Engineering,  26%;  Management. 
17%;  Sales/Marketing.  6%:  Education.  4%;  Manufacturing. 
4%;  Research  &  Development.  3%;  Scientific.  2%:  Retired. 
13%;  Other.  1 5 % :  No  Response,  11%. 

We  looked  first  at  alumni  attitudes  toward  the  Journal  alone. 
Naturally,  we  were  interested  in  learning  how  much  time  alumni 
spend  reading  the  Journal.  Here's  what  our  sample  told  us:  More 
than  52%  say  they  usually  spend  a  half-hour  or  more  reading  the 
Journal.  A  full  14%  give  the  magazine  more  than  an  hour  of  their 
time.  Not  bad.  we  believe,  for  a  magazine  that  arrives  at  their 
doors  unsolicited  and  free  of  charge. 

On  the  other  hand,  only  24%  of  our  sample  could  recall  an 
article  that  stood  out  as  one  they  particularly  liked. 

We  were  eager  to  have  our  readers  compare  the  quality  of  the 
Journal  with  alumni  publications  they  receive  from  other  col- 
leges. Some  30%  say  that  they  receive  such  publications.  Of 
these.  56%  rated  the  Journal  of  better  quality  and  another  27% 
judged  it  of  the  same  quality. 

We  asked  our  sample  how  much  they  enjoy  the  following  regu- 
lar parts  of  the  Journal:  covers.  "News  from  the  Hill,"  features, 
student  and  faculty  research  reports,  class  notes,  obituaries.  It 
came  as  no  surprise  when  a  whopping  62%  said  they  enjoyed 
class  notes  "very  much"  with  another  17%  enjoying  them 
"somewhat."  By  a  clear  margin,  class  notes  are  the  most  popular 
section  of  the  Journal  according  to  the  survey.  Likewise,  as  we 
expected,  the  sample  indicated  least  enjoyment  in  the  obituaries 
section,  "Completed  Careers."  The  remaining  sections  collected 
"very  much  enjoyment"  votes  in  the  25-30%  range. 

For  planning  purposes,  we  then  asked  our  respondents  to  indi- 
cate their  interest  in  story  topics  ranging  from  WPI  building  plans 
and  finances,  to  profiles  of  prominent  alumni  and  faculty,  to  the 
WPI  Plan,  to  general  interest  articles,  to  WPI  sports. 

Here  the  responses  varied  tremendously.  First  and  foremost. 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


the  most  popular  articles  appear  to  be  those  focusing  on  alumni. 
Then  in  descending  order  of  interest:  The  WPI  Plan,  student 
projects  and  research,  and  campus  building  plans  and  renova- 
tions. Least  popular  appear  to  be  stories  addressing  WPI  fi- 
nances. Alumni  Fund  reports  and  general  interest  stories— those 
that  don't  necessarily  relate  to  WPI  or  its  alumni.  Of  medium 
interest  to  the  sample  are  stories  about  the  Alumni  Association, 
sports,  current  issues  in  higher  education  and  letters  to  the  editor. 
(We  receive  very  few  letters  from  our  readers.  Please  write!) 

These  sentiments  were  borne  out  in  a  later,  open-ended  ques- 
tion that  asked,  "'What  would  be  the  first  thing  you'd  do  to 
improve  the  JournaP."  (Gulp!)  Suggestions  ranged  far  and  wide, 
from  "add  more  color"  (prohibitively  expensive),  to  "improve 
the  writing,"  to  "send  it  more  often."  (Nobody  said,  "Fire  the 
editor!")  But  the  message  that  came  across  loudest  from  this 
question  was  the  sample  readers'  desire  for  a  clearer  and  more 
prominent  focus  on  alumni— through  profiles,  greater  use  of  class 
notes  and  simply  more  space  devoted  to  WPI  graduates. 

In  another  open-ended  question,  respondents  were  given  the 
chance  to  make  suggestions  for  Journal  stories  they'd  like  to  see. 
Here,  only  15%  of  the  sample  offered  ideas.  This,  and  the  range 
of  topics  offered  ("more  on  fraternities."  "more  sports."  "effects 
of  the  Plan  on  business  and  society")  indicated  greater  concern 
for  personal  interests  rather  than  a  common  recognition  that  any 
particular  areas  of  editorial  coverage  were  felt  to  be  grossly  inade- 
quate. But  once  again,  stories  about  alumni  headed  the  list  of 
suggestions. 

It's  worth  noting  that  no  question  in  the  survey  directly  ad- 
dressed the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium  (AMC),  the  five-col- 
lege publishing  arrangement  of  which  WPI  is  a  member.  This  was 
intentional.  Under  the  AMC  concept,  the  first  and  most  success- 
ful of  its  kind,  the  middle  16  pages  of  each  college's  alumni 
magazine  are  identical  and  are  thus  more  generic  than  the  rest  of 
the  magazine  (typically  another  24  pages),  which  is  produced  by 
each  member  college. 

Alumni  comments  during  the  survey  about  this  format,  adopted 
in  early  1982  for  financial  reasons,  were  few  and  far  between; 
and  we  heard  no  unusually  strong  sentiments  for  or  against  the 
idea. 

Finally,  the  respondents'  overall  assessment  of  the  Journal 
makes  us  feel  pretty  good.  Forty-eight  percent  rated  the  Journal 
"outstanding,"  with  another  35%  judging  it  "average."  Less  than 
a  full  percentage  point  said  we  produced  a  "poor"  magazine.  The 
rest  had  no  opinion. 


^  ^L  ^hat  we  learned  about  Newsbriefs:  Newsbriefs,  the 
%/%/quarterly  newsletter  of  the  college,  receives  far  broader 

V  ▼readership  than  the  Journal.  For  one  thing,  we  send 
Newsbriefs  to  some  4.500  parents  of  students  and  recent  grads  to 
help  keep  them  informed  of  events  and  developments  on  campus 
and  throughout  the  WPI  community.  (We  also  send  the  Journal 
free  of  charge  to  parents  who  request  a  subscription.)  Newsbriefs. 
under  the  editorship  of  Public  Relations  Director  Roger  Perry, 
'45.  also  has  a  wider  circulation  among  the  media,  neighbors  of 
the  college  and  Worcester-area  community  and  business  leaders. 

Still,  we  are  continually  interested  in  reading  the  pulse  of  the 
Newsbriefs  alumni  audience.  Our  questionnaire  unearthed  some 
fascinating  information.  First,  only  60%  of  the  sample  reported 
that  they  receive  Newsbriefs  regularly.  But  55%  say  that  they 
usually  spend  up  to  an  hour  reading  Newsbriefs.  with  the  majority 
spending  up  to  one  half-hour  with  it. 

Some  53%  rated  Newsbriefs  as  "outstanding"  or  "average." 


though  they  were  not  asked  to  compare  it  with  any  other  publica- 
tion. And  among  those  who  do  report  receiving  it,  87%  rate 
Newsbriefs  "outstanding." 

Then  we  asked  a  hypothetical  question:  "Should  Newsbriefs 
continue  as  a  separate  publication  or  become  a  special  section  of 
the  JournaP."  Nineteen  percent  said  to  leave  it  as  a  separate 
publication,  30%  said  the  two  should  be  combined,  and  51% 
offered  no  opinion. 

"How  can  we  improve  Newsbriefs?"  we  asked  our  sample  of 
alumni  readers.  Suggestions  ranged  from  "more  on  projects,"  to 
"too  much  about  administrative  matters,"  to  "keep  it  coming." 
Again,  as  with  the  same  question  about  the  Journal,  we  turned  up 
no  clear  consensus  of  how  Newsbriefs  needs  to  be  changed  dra- 
matically. 


^L  ^L  ^hat  can  we  conclude  from  all  this?  The  alumni  leader- 

%/%/ship  survey  has  certainly  clarified  a  number  of  points. 

V  ▼  Above  all,  alumni  appear  to  want  the  Journal  to  provide 
more  information  about  their  fellow  alumni.  They  want  to  learn 
more  about  the  WPI  Plan,  student  projects  and  changes  to  WPI's 
physical  plant.  They  care  little  of  reading  about  administrative 
matters.  WPI  finances  or  general  interest  topics. 

Yet  a  good  many  of  them,  nearly  half,  rate  the  Journal  out- 
standing. Most  say  it's  better  than  other  alumni  magazines  they 
receive.  Even  more  think  it  provides  about  the  right  amount  of 
information. 

Conclusions  about  Newsbriefs  are  more  difficult  to  point  out. 
We  are  puzzled  as  to  why  so  many  alumni  in  our  sample  report 
not  receiving  Newsbriefs  regularly. 

But  alumni  sentiments,  though  apparently  not  as  positive  to- 
wards Newsbriefs  as  the  Journal,  can  be  partly  explained  by  the 
broader  audience  focus  of  Newsbriefs.  Simply  put.  Newsbriefs 
must  satisfy  a  far  more  diversified  and  larger  audience  than 
alumni  alone. 

Perhaps  the  ultimate  question  we  must  ask  ourselves  through 
the  results  of  the  survey  is  this:  "Are  our  major  communication 
vehicles  for  reaching  our  alumni — the  Journal  and  Newsbriefs — 
meeting  the  needs  of  this  vital  constituency?" 

Getting  a  close  look  at  Newsbriefs  on  this  level  is  tough,  so 
diverse  are  its  intended  audiences  and  their  interests.  But.  in  the 
Journal's  case  and  to  a  lesser  extent  in  Newsbriefs'  case,  if  the 
results  of  our  recent  survey  of  alumni  readers  represent  the  senti- 
ments of  the  larger  alumni  body,  we  can  answer  with  assurance 
that.  yes.  the  Journal  and  Newsbriefs  are  meeting  their  goals.  Yet 
we  now  also  have  a  better  idea  of  the  course  which  alumni  wish 
us  to  chart  for  WPI's  two  chief  alumni  publications. 

And.  yes.  we  did  ask  alumni  if  they'd  subscribe  to  the  Journal. 
Nearly  60%  of  our  sample  said  they'd  spend  S5  for  a  year's  worth 
of  the  Journal.  Not  that  we  are  even  considering  such  a  move,  but 
the  question  did  provide  a  gauge  of  the  Journal's  value  to  alumni. 

Whether  or  not  you  were  part  of  the  sample,  we'd  appreciate 
hearing  from  you.  Let  us  know  what  you'd  like  to  see  in  the 
Journal  and  Newsbriefs.  how  you  liked  (or  hated)  a  recent  article, 
which  way  we  should  be  headed. 

And  thanks  to  those  alumni  who  offered  us  their  opinions  on 
the  phone,  the  students  who  made  the  calls  through  three  exciting 
evenings,  the  Alumni  Publications  Committee  members  who 
worked  so  diligently  to  produce  a  legitimate,  comprehensive  sur- 
vey. Thanks  especially  to  Deb  Scott  of  the  Alumni  Office  for  her 
coordinating  efforts,  and  to  Publications  Committee  Chairman 
Don  Ross,  '54,  and  member  Sam  Mencow,  '37.  for  manning  the 
phones  themselves:  team  players  all! 


NOVEMBER  1983 


Professor  Robert  L.  Norton  works  with  ME  junior  Richard  Hajec  ofGranby,  CT,  on  a  WPI  Applab  computer. 


Appkb  Flight  2610 
Now  Boarding 

The  passengers  are  WPI  engineering  students. 
Their  destination:  expertise  in  computer  graphics. 


by  Michael  Shanley 
WPI  News  Bureau 


You  sit  calmly,  securely  in  the 
cockpit  as  the  runway  comes  into 
view.  The  control  tower  and  the 
terminal  stand  to  the  right.  Everything  is 
perfect  as  you  begin  your  descent,  the  run- 
way looming  bigger  and  bigger.  But  wait. 
Something's  wrong.  Suddenly  you're  off 
course  and  heading  straight  for  the  termi- 
nal. Desperately  you  struggle  to  get  back 
on  course.  But  it's  no  use.  Everything  goes 
blank  as  you  plow  into  the  tower. 

A  scene  from  a  disaster  movie?  A  night- 
mare from  which  you'd  gladly  awaken? 
No.  Rather,  it's  the  graphic  display  being 
shown  on  ME  Professor  Robert  Norton's 
Apple  computer  screen  as  part  of  his 
course.  "Engineering  Applications  of 
Computer  Graphics."  ES2610. 
If  this  were  a  video  progiam  designed  by 


8       WTI  JOURNAL 


experts  to  be  bought  and  plugged  into  a 
home  computer,  the  display  might  seem 
less  than  fascinating.  It's  not  state-of-the- 
art  computer  graphics.  What  is  fascinating 
is  that  the  program  was  designed  as  a  class 
project  by  Victor  Geraci.  '84  ME.  using 
only  the  capabilities  of  an  Apple  II. 

Geraci  and  his  classmates  learn  to  create 
computer  images  and  make  them  appear  3- 
dimensional.  They  must  master  such  con- 
cepts as  animation,  perspective,  rotation 
and  "hidden  line"  removal— deleting,  for 
example,  the  "back  side"  of  a  3-dimen- 
sional  box. 

"We're  not  interested  in  just  making 
pretty  engineering  drawings,"  says  Nor- 
ton. "The  idea  is  to  do  things  in  engineer- 
ing graphics  that  couldn't  be  done  before." 

With  that  in  mind,  he  sets  out  to  teach 
basic  principles  that  can  be  transferred  to 
larger,  more  complex  systems.  "The 
mathematics  doesn't  change."  Norton 
points  out.  "The  program  method  the  stu- 
dents design  on  the  Apple  will  work  on 
more  advanced  equipment  they  might  use 
after  they  graduate."  equipment  which  is 
already  hard  at  work  in  the  field. 

The  movies  Star  Wars  and  TRON  both 
made  use  of  computer  graphics.  Norton 
says.  And  at  places  like  the  Northrop  Cor- 
poration's plant  in  California,  test  pilots 
are  trained  in  simulators  featuring  detailed 
television  pictures  done  by  computer.  Nor- 
ton visited  the  Northrop  facilities  while  at- 
tending an  American  Society  of  Engineer- 
ing Education  conference.  "They're  doing 
amazing  things  there— much  better  than 
Star  Wars,"  he  says. 

But  successful  Hollywood  producers 
and  corporate  giants  have  at  their  disposal 
multi-million-dollar  equipment.  WPI  itself 
has  an  advanced  computer-aided  design 
(CAD)  lab  capable  of  performing  complex 
maneuvers.  And  while  their  performance 
is  spectacular,  machines  such  as  those  in 
the  CAD  lab  cost  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
dollars  compared  to  $2,000  or  so  for  an 
Apple  II.  "If  money  were  no  object."  Nor- 
ton says,  "of  course  we'd  opt  for  some- 
thing more  advanced." 

Although  WPI  students  have  access  to 


more  than  100  computer  terminals  on 
campus,  most  of  those  are  not  capable  of 
displaying  graphics.  There  are  just  15  Ap- 
ple II  computers  in  the  WPI  "Applab." 
and  the  60  students  in  Norton's  class  must 
share  those  with  other  computer  classes  on 
campus. 

Computer  graphics  is  a  new  field 
for  Norton.  "I  had  taught  com- 
puter programming  to  engineers 
since  the  1960s,  but  the  graphics  part  was 
brand  new  for  me.  I  was  supported  on  a 
Bay  State  Skills  Grant  and  learned  on  my 
own.  using  manuals." 

As  a  learning  project,  he  designed  an 
animated  3-dimensional  graphics  simula- 
tor for  the  Puma  robot  that  is  used  as  an 
industrial  research  tool  at  WPI's  Manufac- 
turing Engineering  Applications  Center 
(MEAC).  On-screen,  the  viewer  sees  the 
robot— in  perfect  proportion — repeatedly 
pick  up  an  object  and  move  it  to  a  spot  in 
the  foreground. 

Wonder  what  it  would  be  like  to  see  the 
robot  working  from  a  bird's-eye  view?  No 
problem.  Norton  just  punches  a  few  keys 
and  there  you  are  looking  down  from  the 
ceiling.  How  about  a  view  from  belou  ?  In 
a  snap,  you're  peeking  up  at  the  robot  as  if 
from  under  a  plexiglass  floor.  In  fact,  you 
can  view  the  robot  working  from  any  per- 
spective point  simply  by  typing  in  the  de- 
sired angle. 

While  Norton  doesn't  expect  his  stu- 
dents to  produce  anything  quite  so  com- 
plex, many  of  them  have  created  projects 
that  combine  technical  knowledge  with 
playful  creativity.  In  addition  to  the  air- 
field program  noted  above,  students  have 
created  3-dimensional  slider-crank  mecha- 
nisms, moving  automobiles  and  even 
stage-by-stage  displays  of  manufacturing 
processes. 

Ingemar  Handestam.  an  exchange  stu- 
dent from  Sweden,  designed  a  program  in 
which  his  initials.  IH.  in  giant  block  let- 
ters, appear  on  stage  from  behind  a  "cur- 
tain." turn  180  degrees  and  then  march 
off.  disappearing  again,  as  if  animated, 
behind  the  curtain. 


"It  was  great  fun,"  says  Ingemar  with  a 
grin.  "After  you  learn  the  basics,  it's  fas- 
cinating to  see  how  easy  it  is  to  make 
things  3-D.  I  even  enjoyed  writing  the  re- 
ports." 

The  reports  are  written  papers  Norton 
requires  students  to  hand  in  with  two  of 
four  mandatory  projects.  The  reports  de- 
scribe the  work  and  provide  a  "user's  man- 
ual." Other  than  that,  the  course  is  paper- 
less. Students  hand  in  assignments  on 
floppy  discs  and  Norton  corrects  and 
grades  them  by  plugging  them  into  the  Ap- 
ple and  letting  them  run.  One  requirement 
is  that  the  program  work  with  the  viewer 
doing  no  more  than  occasionally  touching 
a  key  to  end  a  pause. 

So  except  for  the  two  reports,  students 
are  never  required  to  use  pencils  or  pens, 
papers  or  erasers.  There  are  no  exams. 

"More  and  more  companies  are  trying 
to  manufacture  and  design  products  in  a 
paper-less  environment."  Norton  says. 
"It's  quicker  and  easier  and  more  produc- 
tive."" 

Why.  then,  didn't  he  make  his  course 
completely  paper-less:  why  the  reports? 
"That's  what  a  lot  of  the  students  wonder." 
says  Norton  with  a  chuckle. 

Then  he  turns  serious.  "It's  vital  that 
engineers  learn  to  express  their  ideas  well. 
You  can  be  the  smartest  person  in  the 
uorld.  but  no  one  will  know  it  unless  you 
can  communicate.  After  20  years  in  indus- 
try and  teaching.  I've  found  it's  usually 
people  with  the  best  verbal  skills— not  just 
math  skills— who  get  ahead."  Having  a 
well-rounded,  broad-based  background, 
Norton  says,  will  also  help  keep  graduates 
from  becoming  too  provincial  in  their  en- 
gineering practice. 

As  for  computer  graphics.  Norton  says. 
"Engineers  typically  aren't  interested  in 
pure  computer  science.  An  engineer  looks 
at  a  computer  and  says  What  can  I  do  with 
it?"  Give  him  a  start  and  he's  off  and  run- 
ning." 

Running  where?  What  is  the  future  of 
computer  graphics?  What  are  the  possibili- 
ties1 

"Infinite."  says  Bob  Norton. 


NOVEMBER  Nt>3       o 


Happy  25th  Anniversary, 
Tech  Old-Timers! 


Here's  a  club  that  the 
years  have  only  made 
stronger. 

By  Ruth  Trask 


Back  in  the  fall  of  "58.  several 
members  of  the  WPI  Alumni  As- 
sociation thought  it  would  be  a 
good  idea  to  form  a  club  to  "cultivate  the 
comradeship**  of  older  WPI  alumni  and 
staff  members  in  the  Worcester  area.  The 
club  would  act  not  only  as  a  social  cata- 
lyst, but  also  as  a  forum  for  the  exchange 
of  ideas  on  topics  of  community  interest, 
general  interest  and.  most  importantly, 
campus  interest. 

Thus,  the  Tech  Old-Timers  Club  (TOT) 
was  officially  launched  on  Dec.  1 1 .  1958. 
And  as  the  founding  fathers  had  predicted, 
it  was  indeed  a  good  idea.  Over  the  years, 
membership  has  grown  from  the  original 
23  to  the  current  enrollment  of  200.  This 
year  the  club  celebrates  its  25th  anniver- 
sary. 

It  is  through  the  meticulously  kept  min- 
utes of  Harrison  Brown.  *  12.  who  served 
as  secretary  during  1958-74.  that  we  learn 
much  of  the  character  of  the  early  Tech 
Old-Timers  Club.  For  example,  if  a  mem- 
ber missed  three  meetings  without  a  valid 
excuse,  his  name  was  stricken  from  the 
monthly  mailing  list. 

Says  Bob  Fowler,  '36.  TOT*s  genial 
secretary -treasurer.  "Can  you  imagine 
the  uproar  I'd  cause  if  I  took  attendance 
today  and  tried  to  tie  it  to  our  mailing  list? 
We  sometimes  have  up  to  70  members  at  a 
single  meeting." 

According  to  Fowler,  who  has  re- 
searched club  historical  records.  "The 
club  operated  quite  independently  from 
the  Alumni  Office  early  on.  With  annual 
dues  of  only  SI .  the  club  was  apparently 
able  to  pay  its  own  mailing  costs  and  pur- 
chase its  own  letterheads  and  supplies." 
The  early,  strict  attendance  requirement 


Worcester  Area  College  Computation  Center  Director  J.  Jackson  briefs  TOT  members. 


was  relaxed  when  the  Alumni  Office 
started  to  help  update  the  club's  mailing 
list  and  assume  some  of  its  postage  costs. 
Because  of  this  assistance.  TOT  dues  re- 
mained at  SI  until  they  were  finally  raised 
to  S2  in  1977.  "due  to  inflation.""  quips 
Fowler. 

TOT  programs,  normally  scheduled  for 
10  a.m.  on  the  second  Thursday  of  the 
month.  September  through  May.  have 
been  varied  and  interesting.  Topics  have 
ranged  from  "Problems  of  Aging  and  Life 
Expectancy'"  to  "Urban  Renewal  in  Wor- 
cester." On  one  early  Ladies"  Day.  to 
which  TOT  members'  spouses  are  invited. 
Mrs.  Esther  Goddard.  widow  of  rocket 
pioneer  Robert  H.  Goddard.  '08.  spoke  on 


"The  Road  to  the  Stars."  describing  her 
husband's  work. 

In  1959  the  club  travelled  to  Boston 
by  bus  to  see  a  Red  Sox  game.  (Bus  fare 
w  as  S 1 .50.  The  outcome  of  the  game  w  as 
not  recorded  in  the  minutes.)  Members 
have  visited  the  Higgins  Armory  Museum 
and  the  Craft  Center  in  Worcester. 
They  ve  heard  fishing  and  nature  talks, 
participated  in  a  campus  hobby  fair  and 
laughed  over  a  humorist's  "Just  Non- 
sense" program. 

Members  have  enjoyed  travel  programs 
on  Mexico,  the  USSR..  Europe  and 
the  South  Seas,  yet  news  from  the  Hill  has 
traditionally  drawn  the  largest,  most  en- 
thusiastic attendance.  Former  WPI  Presi- 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


At  a  TOT  meeting  in  the  Gordon  Librae 

Conference  Room  (above),  Howard  A. 
Whittum,  '34  (left)  and  TOT  President 
George  Garrison,  '53  SIM,  catch  up  on 
WPI.  Below,  Edward  A.  Sawtell  (I.)  and 
George  H.  Bartlett,  both  '38,  chat. 

dent  Harry  Storke  gave  a  "WPI  Today" 
talk  in  the  1960s.  From  his  viewpoint,  the 
new  custom  of  wearing  long  hair  and  side- 
burns—so prevalent  on  Boston  campuses 
at  the  time— had  not  yet  reached  as  far 
west  as  Worcester.  He  reported  on  WPI's 
two  female  undergraduates  and  revealed 
that  biology  and  computer  courses  might 
be  added  to  the  curriculum. 

There  were  updates  about  athletics  from 
Merl  Norcross  of  the  WPI  Athletic  De- 
partment and  news  of  the  then  revolution- 
ary WPI  Plan  from  Dean  William 
Grogan.  '46. 

Interest  in  highway  safety  led  members 
to  invite  a  former  member  of  the  Massa- 
chusetts Registry  of  Motor  Vehicles  to  be 


NOVEMBER  1983        11 


Tech  Old-Timer  Donald  C.  Vibber,  '34,  at  a  recent  TOT  meeting. 


a  guest  speaker.  He  reported  that  he 
had  encouraged  school  children  to  write 
jingles  concerning  highway  safety.  Out  of 
the  thousands  he  received,  one  of  his  fa- 
vorites was:  "Don't  lose  your  head  to  gain 
a  minute.  You  need  your  head,  your  brains 
are  in  it!" 

■'Getting  the  right  men  to  serve  as  TOT 
officers  has  played  an  important  part 
in  the  growth  of  the  club,"  Fowler  says. 
"Luck  was  with  us  in  being  able  to  attract 
capable  members  to  lead  the  club  since 
its  inception." 

Looking  back  over  TOT's  first  25  years, 
it's  interesting  to  note  that  there  have  been 
14  presidents,  numerous  vice  presidents. 


and  only  three  secretaries.  Generally,  the 
presidents  served  for  a  term  of  two  years 
each,  with  the  vice  presidents  then  assum- 
ing the  presidency. 

Since  1977,  the  club  has  grown  from 
150  to  200  active  members,  and  the  aver- 
age attendance  at  meetings  has  more 
than  doubled,  from  about  25  to  nearly  60. 

"We  believe  this  growth  is  due  to  good 
programming,  aggressive  leadership, 
guidance  from  the  Alumni  Office  and  the 
fact  that  alumni  are  simply  living  longer 
and  enjoying  more  of  what  we  have  to  of- 
fer." says  Fowler.  "TOT  offers  members 
the  opportunity  to  meet  with  retired 
alumni,  faculty  and  trustees  on  a  common 
footing  in  an  informal  atmosphere.  We 


share  our  varied  interests  and  experiences, 
discuss  common  problems  and  benefit 
from  programs  on  timely  topics." 

At  May's  meeting,  the  club  initiated 
the  practice  of  making  awards  to  members 
in  recognition  of  outstanding  service  to 
WPI  and  TOT.  The  first  two  awards  were 
given  to  Chester  Inman,  '  14,  a  charter 
member,  and  to  Walter  Dennen,  '  18,  a 
former  club  president  and  long-time  TOT 
booster. 

Says  Fowler.  "The  awards  were  appre- 
ciated and  something  of  a  surprise.  They 
were  long  overdue." 

Another  factor  in  the  growth  and  popular- 
ity of  TOT  is  its  fun-for-all  atmosphere. 
Although  some  of  the  programs  inspire  se- 
rious thought,  there  is  almost  alwa\s  room 
for  laughter.  "Any  attempt  at  formality  is 
summarily  dismissed,"  Fowler  adds. 

Walt  Dennen  can  always  be  counted 
on  for  his  humorous  perspectives  on  the 
current  political  scene  when  he  makes  an 
announcement. 

The  fun  even  extends  to  the  recording 
of  the  minutes.  This  tongue-in-cheek  entry 
appeared  in  the  December  1959  records: 
"The  minutes  of  the  November  meet- 
ing were  not  read  due  to  the  fact  that  they 
were  not  found.  The  motion  was  made 
and  passed  to  omit  the  reading  under  those 
conditions." 

Club  membership  expanded  in  the 
1970s  with  the  trend  toward  early  retire- 
ment. But,  due  to  uncertain  economic 
conditions  in  the  early  1980s,  this  trend 
seems  to  be  reversing.  Recently.  TOT  has 
enlisted  new  members  from  WPI's  School 
of  Industrial  Management.  Several  SIM 
alumni  now  regularly  attend  meetings. 

"In  fact."  Fowler  reports,  "the  first 
SIM  grad  to  become  an  active  Tech  Old- 
Timer  is  our  newly  installed  president. 
George  Garrison.  '53  SIM." 

On  the  eve  of  its  Silver  Anniversary,  the 
Tech  Old-Timers  Club  is  hale  and  hearty. 
TOT  is  without  question  one  of  the  most 
enthusiastic  and  loyal  of  all  WPI  clubs.  It 
combines  fun  and  purpose  in  equal  mea- 
sure for  WPI  alumni,  staff  members  and 
trustees  who  are  65  and/or  retired. 

"We  enjoy  getting  together."  Fowler 
says.  "We  like  to  talk  over  what's  going 
on  in  our  lives  and  learn  the  latest  devel- 
opments at  WPI  and  in  the  community. 
TOT  provides  us  with  a  perfect  forum  ." 

With  an  ever-growing  roster  and  spir- 
ited member  endorsement,  the  Tech  Old- 
Timers  Club  looks  ahead  to  its  next  25 
years— and  a  Golden  Anniversary. 

Back  in  "58.  the  founders  of  TOT  had  a 
very  good  idea,  indeed! 


WPI  JOURNAL 


In  Search  of 
A  Few 

Good  Students 

Already,  the  number  of  college-age  students  in 
the  United  States  has  dropped  from  its  '70s 
high*  By  1992,  it  will  have  fallen  25  percent*  as 
competition  for  the  best  students  gets  tougher^ 
colleges  are  changing  their  recruiting  tactics* 

By  Mary  Ruth  Yoe 


Since  1643,  when  Harvard  College 
published  a  prospectus  entitled 
"New  England's  First  Fruit,"  col- 
leges and  universities  have  been  inviting 
students  to  enroll.  Sometimes  the  invita- 
tions are  as  sought  after  as  admission  to  an 
exclusive  country  club.  Sometimes  they 
are  more  indiscriminate:  during  one  spring 
break  a  few  years  ago,  a  college  gave 
away  Frisbees  to  revelers  at  Fort  Lauder- 
dale. Sometimes  a  descendent  of  that  first 
brochure  will  stress  challenging  academ- 
ics; sometimes,  as  did  a  Virginia  women's 
college  in  the  1920s,  it  will  boast  that 
every  bed  in  its  dormitory  is  a  Simmons. 

Today's  high  school  student  with  high 
SATs  may  receive  200  or  300  invitational 
brochures,  part  of  increasingly  orches- 
trated efforts  by  colleges  and  universities 
to  market  their  (nonprofit)  product  to  what 
is  usually  a  first-time  consumer:  the  18- 
year-old  high  school  graduate.  It's  a 
crowded,  and  sometimes  confusing,  mar- 
ketplace: The  College  Handbook  1982-83, 
published  by  the  College  Entrance  Exami- 


nation Board,  lists  about  3,000  schools. 
Ronald  Potier,  director  of  admissions  at 
Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  calls 
F&M  "one  of  the  most  selective  colleges 
in  the  country."  (It  accepts  about  45  per- 
cent of  its  applicants;  Princeton  accepts  18 
percent;  34  percent  of  the  nation's  colleges 
have  "open-door"  admissions.)  But,  he 
admits,  "Still,  we  look  a  hell  of  a  lot  like 
other  places." 

"Students  don't  research  colleges  suffi- 
ciently well,"  says  James  Rogers,  director 
of  admissions  at  Brown  University.  "They 
go  on  hunch  and  hearsay."  Christopher 
Small,  dean  of  admissions  at  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute  (RPI),  agrees:  "Too 
many  kids  select  schools  because  their 
next-door  neighbor  mentioned  it,  or  their 
parents  went  there."  Karyl  Preston,  associ- 
ate director  of  admissions  at  Hartwick 
College,  says  she  is  surprised  by  students 
who  enroll  without  visiting  the  campus: 
"Most  people  wouldn't  buy  a  car  without 
looking  at  it,"  she  reasons,  "or  a  dress 
without  trying  it  on." 


On  the  other  hand,  as  Roy  Seaberg,  di- 
rector of  admissions  at  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute  (WPI),  points  out,  stu- 
dents seem  intuitively  to  match  themselves 
to  certain  types  of  institutions:  "There's  a 
large  amount  of  self-selection."  In  The 
Structure  of  College  Choice  (published  in 
September  by  the  College  Board),  Robert 
Zemsky  and  Penney  Oedel  divide  students 
into  four  categories:  local,  in-state,  re- 
gional, and  national.  Institutions  are  simi- 
larly classified,  depending  on  the  type  of 
student  they  most  often  attract.  (The  four 
Alumni  Magazine  Consortium  institutions 
surveyed  in  this  article — F&M,  Hartwick, 
RPI,  and  WPI— fall  along  the  regional 
spectrum.)  "We  can  say  with  some  confi- 
dence," the  researchers  write,  "that  the 
most  important  single  attribute  for  identi- 
fying regional  and  national  students  is  a 
high  SAT  score,  followed  by  college-edu- 
cated parents,  high  family  income,  and 
post-baccalaureate  aspirations." 

Zemsky  and  Oedel  (of  the  Higher  Edu- 
cation Finance  Research  Institute  at  the 


NOVEMBER  1983      I 


v^ 


r#J 


s**  ,a\ScX 


e&^ 


&*& 


University  of  Pennsylvania)  make  no 
claims  to  special  insight.  They  say  they 
have  merely  quantified  what  admissions 
officers  intuitively  knew:  each  institution 
attracts  a  certain  type  of  student.  In  the 
1960s,  an  institution's  admissions  officer 
functioned  as  a  gatekeeper,  content  to  let 
the  student  decide  on  his  or  her  own  if  X 
University  was  the  place  to  attend.  Now, 
gatekeeper  has  become  recruiter. 

The  reason  for  the  change  is  what  one 
educator  calls  "a  15-year  window  of  vul- 
nerability," declines  in  college  enrollment 
brought  on  by  the  end  of  the  post-World 
War  II  baby  boom.  Between  1979  and 
1992,  predicts  the  U.S.  Census  Bureau, 
the  number  of  1 8-year-olds  will  drop  from 
4.3  million  to  3.2  million— a  drop  of  25 
percent  in  the  population  group  known  to 
college  admissions  officials  as  "the  appli- 
cant pool."  (By  1996,  things  may  begin  to 
get  better,  in  part  because  children  of  the 
post-World  War  II  baby  boom  children 
will  near  college  age.)  The  news  is  partic- 
ularly bad  for  institutions  in  the  Northeast 
and  North  Central  states,  regions  hard-hit 
by  migrations  to  the  Sunbelt  where  the 
drops  are  expected  to  be  nearer  40  and  30 
percent,  respectively. 

But  simple  demographics  don't  tell  the 
whole  story.  The  number  of  18-year-olds 
doesn't  necessarily  equal  the  number  of 


high  school  graduates.  In  1977,  for  exam- 
ple, 83.9  percent  of  whites  aged  18  to  24 
graduated  from  high  school,  compared  to 
69.8  percent  of  blacks  and  55.5  percent  of 
Hispanics.  The  proportion  of  minorities  in 
the  college  age  group  is  increasing.  That 
fact,  in  addition  to  increasing  tuition  and 
uncertain  employment  prospects  after  col- 
lege, may  further  lower  the  applicant  pool. 

Although  the  writing  on  the  wall  dates  to 
the  early  1970s,  it  has  taken  many  colleges 
and  universities  longer  to  get  the  message. 
David  W.  Breneman,  the  new  president  of 
Michigan's  Kalamazoo  College,  notes  in 
Change  magazine  that  "a  recent  national 
survey  of  college  and  university  presidents 
reported  that  only  16  percent  of  the  presi- 
dents expected  their  institutions  to  lose  en- 
rollments, while  42  percent  expect  their 
enrollment  to  increase!" 

Robert  Zemsky  and  Penney  Oedel  think 
the  metaphor  of  an  applicant  "pool"  with 
its  "single  surface... hides  the  fact  that  in 
reality  there  are  a  series  of  linked  basins 
carved  out  of  the  pool's  uneven  bottom." 
(The  researchers  assign  separate  basins  to 
private  and  public  institutions,  believing 
the  two  compete  for  different  types  of  stu- 
dents.) Only  a  very  few  institutions  are 
safely  moored  in  the  center  of  a  deep, 
steeply  sloped  basin:  schools  [like  Harvard 
and  Stanford]  which  "traditionally  admit 


less  than  a  third  of  the  students  who  apply 
and  enroll  more  than  half  of  those  admit- 
ted." Perched  along  the  slope  are  other  se- 
lective colleges  [most  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium  schools  fall  into  this  group] 
which  nevertheless  admit  more  than  half 
their  applicants;  these  institutions  "are  at 
risk  despite  their  traditional  aura  of  suc- 
cess and  invulnerability."  Even  more  at 
risk,  however,  are  those  schools,  for  the 
most  part  private,  non-selective  colleges, 
that  lie  in  the  shallow  waters  between  ba- 
sins. As  the  pool  begins  to  lose  volume, 
warn  Zemsky  and  Oedel,  those  institutions 
"will  be  most  exposed." 

Whatever  an  institution's  position  in  the 
pool,  the  water  level  is  going  down. 
"Most  admissions  officers,"  says  Robert 
Zemsky,  "will  end  up  telling  their  aca- 
demic and  financial  officers  something 
like  this:  'What  we  must  face  is  that  in  five 
years  there  will  be  fewer  students  of  the 
appropriate  age.  We're  not  going  over  a 
precipice.  Institutions  will  not  commit 
hari-kari  en  masse.  But  there  is  going  to  be 
a  boil-down.'" 

As  the  pool  of  traditional  college-age 
J  \  i-mHontc-  decreases,  some  educa- 
JL  JLtors  reason  that  institutions 
should  focus  their  efforts  on  nontraditional 
students— men  and  women  over  the  age  of 
24,  minority  students,  foreign  students, 
continuing  education  students,  students 
now  served  by  industry-run  schools.  For 
many  schools,  this  is  easier  said  than 
done.  "One  disadvantage  in  a  rural  area," 
Hartwick's  Karyl  Preston  points  out,  "is 
that  you  really  don't  have  recourse  to  the 
alternative  of  nontraditional  education- 
there 's  just  not  as  much  interest  in  it  as 
there  is  in  urban  areas,  where  industries 
are  often  willing  to  support  it."  Robert 
Zemsky  agrees:  "You  have  to  ask  your- 


II         ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


self,  'Are  we  doing  it  now?'  If  so,  you've 
got  a  chance."  The  schools  with  the  best 
chance  to  jump  on  the  nontraditional  edu- 
cation bandwagon,  he  says,  are  commu- 
nity colleges;  besides  their  typically  urban 
or  suburban  location,  "they're  built  to  take 
advantage  of  the  piecework  and  heavy 
part-time  nature  of  the  venture." 

So  selective  colleges  and  universities, 
fighting  to  keep  their  perch  in  the  dimin- 
ishing market,  have  to  concentrate  on  the 
traditional  student.  As  competition  in- 
creases for  the  best  and  brightest  of  those 
students,  some  institutions  are  considering 
a  slight,  voluntary  reduction  in  enroll- 
ment, to  avoid  sacrificing  quality  for 
quantity.  Smith  College  decided  this  year 
gradually  to  reduce  the  size  of  its  stu- 
dent body  by  10  percent.  A  similar, 
hypothetical  contraction  will  be  studied  in 
a  marketing  research  survey  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  this  year,  says  Direc- 
tor of  Admissions  Roy  Seaberg. 

"We  dealt  with  that  issue  even  before  it 
became  an  issue,"  says  Ronald  Potier  of 
F&M.  In  the  early  1970s,  his  college  had 
an  enrollment  of  2,150  students  crowding 
its  "somewhat  landlocked"  campus.  The 
decision  was  made  to  contract  to  an  enroll- 
ment of  about  2,000.  Potier  thinks  that 
F&M's  status  as  an  undergraduate  institu- 
tion made  cutting  the  enrollment  easier: 
"In  our  case,  as  opposed  to  a  school  like 
Johns  Hopkins  or  RPI— where  the  under- 
graduates are  paying  for  a  part  of  the 
graduate  structure— we  have  far,  far  more 
flexibility." 

Flexibility  in  planning  is  needed,  be- 
cause conditions  change  quickly.  Three 
years  ago,  when  Christopher  Small  pre- 
pared a  demographic  study  for  RPI,  "even 
the  best-of-all-worlds  scenario  showed 
that  we  were  going  to  experience  a  drop  in 
enrollment.  But  I  didn't  take  into  account 


Hartwick  College,  located  in  upstate  Ne 
York,  sees  its  physical  setting  as  inviting,  a 
marketing  asset*  Publications  are  designed  to 
emphasize  the  variety  of  courses  and  majors 


at  that  time  that  there  would  be  a  tremen- 
dous boom  in  technology."  Then  there's 
the  case  of  the  related  drop  in  graduate 
applications  in  engineering,  "a  phenome- 
non that  may  have  reversed  itself"  as  the 
market  for  recent  graduates  has  faltered. 
Says  Small,  "This  year  there's  been  a  40 
percent  increase  in  graduate  applica- 
tions"—which  means  an  increase,  though 
smaller,  in  enrollment. 

To  maintain  both  enrollment  and  qual- 
ity—or to  maintain,  or  even  to  increase, 
quality  while  decreasing  enrollment— in- 
stitutions have  only  one  choice:  to  beef  up 
their  admissions  efforts.  And  they  are. 
The  average  institution  of  higher  educa- 
tion, according  to  a  survey  commissioned 
by  The  Chronicle  of  Higher  Education 
(May  4,  1983),  budgeted  $298,439  in 
1982-83  for  admissions,  8  percent  more 
than  the  previous  year  and  23  percent  more 
than  in  1980-81.  And  although  the  bud- 
gets included  such  major  expenditures  as 
salaries,  travel,  postage,  printing,  sup- 
plies, and  telephone  costs,  the  figures  may 
be  conservative:  hidden  costs  such  as  com- 
puter time  and  admissions  publications 
subsidized  by  other  departments  don't 
show  up  in  the  survey. 

According  to  The  Chronicle,  selective 
liberal  arts  colleges  planned  to  spend  the 
most  per  enrolled  student  in  1982-83,  an 
average  of  $709.  (F&M  says  the  amount  it 
spent  is  "a  little  lower,"  while  Hartwick 
admits  to  being  "a  bit  above,"  and  Brown 
"hit  the  average  almost  on  the  nose.")  For 
an  entering  class  of  500,  say,  that  means 
an  admissions  budget  of  about  $350,000. 
On  the  average,  private  research  universi- 
ties budgeted  less— $374— per  enrolled 
student  (RPI  spent  about  $460;  as  an  un- 
dergraduate engineering  school,  WPI 
spent  about  $510.) 

Travel  is  the  highest  single  item  (exclud- 
ing salaries)  in  the  admissions  budget  of 
both  private  research  universities  and  se- 
lective liberal  arts  colleges.  "Road- 
shows"—college  fairs  and  college  nights, 
held  in  urban  and  surburban  schools  and 
motels— generate  large  numbers  of  student 
inquiries.  Visits  to  individual  high 
schools,  meanwhile,  have  lost  some  of 
their  former  importance.  "The  high  school 


visit  as  a  source  of  initial  contact  is  use- 
less," notes  Chris  Small,  "but  it  is  a  must 
as  an  opportunity  to  tell  people  what 
you're  doing  and  to  see  people  on  your 
inquiry  list."  Ron  Potier  agrees:  "I  don't 
think  many  people  are  prepared  to  write  it 
off.  But  the  fact  is,  if  you're  not  known  to 
start  off  with,  you  can  take  yourself  all 
over  the  country  and  still  not  talk  to  any- 
body. It's  word-of- mouth  reputation  that 
matters." 

Enter  direct  mail.  Remember  the 
200  or  so  promotional  brochures 
sent  to  the  bright  high  school  ju- 
nior with  high  SATs?  More  and  more  in- 
stitutions make  their  initial,  often  unsolic- 
ited, approach  to  prospective  students 
through  mass  mailings.  (Postage  and 
printing  costs  seem  to  be  the  fastest-grow- 
ing items  in  the  average  admissions  bud- 
get.) About  900  colleges  and  universities 
purchase  lists  of  names  from  the  Student 
Search  Service  of  the  College  Entrance 
Board.  The  Board  asks  students  taking 
PSATs  or  SATs  to  complete  a  form  that 
includes  questions  on  personal  back- 
ground, achievements,  and  goals.  Stu- 
dents can  then  be  targeted  by  test  scores, 
ZIP  code,  ethnic  background,  expected 
major— so  that,  for  example,  a  school  can 
request  a  list  of  female  engineering  stu- 
dents in  California  with  math  SATs  above 
600.  For  approximately  $150  per  target 
area,  plus  $.14  per  name,  the  Student 
Search  Service  will  sell  names  from  its  1.5 
million-student  pool.  (Last  year,  Boston 
University,  one  of  the  Service's  five  larg- 
est customers,  bought  218,000  names.) 

How  effective  is  direct  mail?  It  depends 
on  both  the  school  and  the  goal.  For  a 
college  with  an  already  firm  national  repu- 
tation, says  James  Rogers  of  Brown  Uni- 
versity, direct  mail  may  be  counter-pro- 
ductive: "A  very  competitive  college 
tends  to  diminish  the  institutional  luster  by 
joining  many  other  colleges,  some  that 
students  and  parents  have  never  heard  of, 
in  the  mail  slot."  (Without  using  direct 
mail,  Brown  had  13,280  applicants  this 
year,  and  accepted  fewer  than  one  student 
in  five.)  But,  to  a  small  liberal  arts  col- 
lege, getting  greater  exposure  may  be  the 


NOVEMBER  1983 


III 


Q&&t  ~" 


RPFs  outsize  red  logo 

most  admissions  pieces — for  impact 

and  to  show  strength  and  stabilii 


first  step  in  increasing  applications. 

"We  have  been  fairly  heavy  users  of  the 
Search  for  the  last  five  years."  says  Karyl 
Preston  of  Hartwick.  "'buying  about 
95.000  names  per  year.  We  were  trying  to 
present  Hartwick  to  more  people,  trying  to 
make  it  a  bit  more  of  a  household  word." 
This  year.  Hartwick  cut  back  on  the  num- 
ber of  names  it  bought — to  about  48.000 — 
and.  says  Preston.  "We're  now  targeting 
in.  homing  in  on  specific  counties  in  four 
of  the  eight  original  search  states  which 
have  traditionally  given  us  a  good  rate  of 
inquiries  to  apps  to  paids."  (In  admissions 
lingo,  an  app  is.  of  course,  an  applicant, 
and  a  paid  is  an  accepted  student  who  de- 
cides to  enroll.)  By  targeting  more  closely. 
Hartwick  hopes  to  improve  its  yield  from 
the  search. 

Inquiries  from  a  search  mailing  are.  by 
their  nature,  "soft  inquiries."  says  F&M's 
Ron  Potier.  "because  they're  not  totally 
self- initiated."  Although  F&M  buys  about 
40.000  names  a  year,  "our  major  yield  is 
from  people  who  have  heard  about  F&M 
from  other  sources  and  who  sit  down  and 
write  a  letter  and  put  a  stamp  on  it." 

RPI  and  WPI  both  target  for  students 
with  high  math  scores  and  an  interest  in 
engineering  and  science.  RPI  buys  45,000 
names:  WPI.  15.000. 

Some  professional  admissions  groups 
argue  that  each  school  should  limit  itself  to 
a  single  unsolicited  contact,  but  most 
schools  currently  do  more.  "The  most 
common  mistake  schools  make  in  direct 
mail  is  that  they  send  too  much  of  it."  says 
Small.  "The  better  the  focus,  the  more 
success."  It's  hard  to  know  how  many 
glossy  brochures,  admissions  newsletters. 


or  personalized  computer  letters  a  kid  can 
receive  without  feeling  hounded  rather 
than  honored.  "Some  of  them  enjoy  it." 
notes  Small.  "There's  a  tremendous 
amount  of  waste  in  this,  but  there  is  in  all 
advertising." 

To  avoid  that  wasted  effort,  insti- 
tutions have  turned  to  market  re- 
search. As  with  a  commercial 
firm  planning  to  introduce  a  new  product, 
the  first  step  is  a  self-study.  A  college, 
says  Robert  Zemsky.  "should  be  asking. 
'Who  am  I?'  It's  often  asked  intuitively, 
but  it  should  be  asked  more  rigorously." 
The  result  is  positioning,  the  carving  out 
of  a  small,  distinctive  niche  in  the  market- 
place. 

The  niche  will,  of  course,  vary  from 
school  to  school.  Hartwick  College,  for 
example,  has  decided  that  there  will  al- 
ways be  a  cadre  of  people  who  want  to 
attend  small  private  liberal  arts  colleges  in 
non-urban  areas,  and  wants  to  concentrate 
on  students  who  want  a  good,  but  not 
high-pressure  education  in  an  attractive 
rural  setting:  "Hartwick  is  not  an  intimi- 
dating place,  academically  or  socially." 
says  Karyl  Preston. 

At  WPI.  Roy  Seaberg  sees  "forces  at 
work  at  engineering  and  technological  col- 
leges that  don't  operate  in  liberal  arts  col- 
leges. First,  there  is  society's  perception 
that  we're  now  in  a  much  more  technologi- 
cally oriented  era.  Opposing  that  is  the 
view  that  technology  is  much  more  unfeel- 
ing than  the  liberal  arts.  But.  with  our  em- 
phasis on  the  humanities  and  individual- 
ization, we're  in  a  good  position.  There's  a 
role  for  this  college  in  the  future  that  may 


be  more  significant  for  students  other  than 
our  usual  applicant  pool— for  liberal  arts 
types  who  want  to  know  technology."  He 
pauses.  "Our  job  is  to  get  that  message  out 
there." 

Sometimes  the  niche  is  more  a  matter  of 
where  the  institution  wants  to  be.  Franklin 
and  Marshall  College  enjoys  a  strong  re- 
gional reputation,  says  Ronald  Potier. 
"and  we've  got  to  expand  our  horizons. 
F&M  is  right  on  the  border  of  being  a 
national  institution,  but  it  isn't  there." 
With  that  in  mind,  he  says.  "We're  going 
to  Houston.  St.  Louis.  Dallas— places 
where  the  population  isn't  dropping  off  as 
fast." 

And  at  RPI.  although  "in  terms  of  the 
number  of  applicants  with  high  math 
scores  for  the  number  of  available  spots, 
we're  among  the  25  most  select  schools  in 
the  country."  Chris  Small  wants  to  see  RPI 
on  a  more  equal  standing  with  Cornell  and 
M. I. T.—  currently,  students  accepted  by 
both  RPI  and  one  of  those  institutions  most 
often  decline  the  RPI  offer.  While  Small 
admits  that  "we're  on  a  roll  at  the  mo- 
ment" as  far  as  the  number  of  applicants  to 
the  School  of  Engineering  is  concerned, 
he'd  also  like  to  increase  the  number 
of  applicants  to  RPI's  four  other  schools 
(Architecture.  Humanities  and  Social 
Sciences.  Management,  and  Science). 

Determining  the  kinds  of  students  it  has 
traditionally  attracted  helps  an  institution 
plan  its  future  marketing  efforts.  One  ele- 
ment that  each  must  put  into  its  calculation 
is  the  demographic  drop.  "Let's  face  it." 
says  Roy  Seaberg  of  WPI.  "we've  got  a 
40  percent  decline  in  the  states— New  En- 
gland. Middle  Atlantic,  the  Upper 
Plains— from  which  50  percent  of  the  en- 
gineering students  in  the  U.S.  are  drawn." 


F&M's  colonial  p 
colors  its  warm, 
conversational,  and 
traditional  loo 


IV        ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


With  67  percent  of  WPI's  students  coming 
from  Massachusetts  and  Connecticut, 
Seaberg  says,  "It's  obvious  that  we're  go- 
ing to  have  to  broaden  our  geographic 
base.  This  is  easier  said  than  done,  be- 
cause moving  out  of  New  England  means 
first  moving  into  areas  contiguous  to  New 
England— and  they  also  are  experiencing 
the  drop  in  high-school  graduates.  We'll 
be  looking  at  the  Sunbelt,  the  Southwest, 
too,  but  there  our  relative  anonymity  will 
be  a  problem  at  first." 

"It  takes  three  to  five  years  to  really 
develop  a  new  area,"  says  Hartwick's 
Karyl  Preston.  "The  realization  that  we  do 
well  in  suburban  areas  has  given  us  some 
new  marketplaces:  suburban  Ohio,  Chi- 
cago, Baltimore- Washington.  Although 
we've  been  a  regional  institution,  with  the 
numbers  dropping  off,  we  need  to  start 
testing  the  waters  in  select  new  areas.  First 
studies,  then  getting  search  names." 

In  addition  to  expanding  horizons,  insti- 
tutions may  decide  to  work  the  tried-and- 
true  streams  harder.  About  75  percent  of 
Franklin  and  Marshall's  students  come 
from  New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  Penn- 
sylvania. Despite  a  predicted  40  percent 
drop,  says  Ronald  Potier,  "That  is  our 
market.  We're  known  in  those  areas,  so  it 
doesn't  mean  there  will  be  a  40  percent 
drop  in  interest  in  F&M."  RPI  is  pursuing 
a  similar  strategy  in  New  York  State  and 
New  England,  focusing  more  attention 
"on  different  markets  in  those  states.  We 
have  a  real  problem  in  being  thought  of  as 
an  engineering  undergraduate  school.  We 
could  deal  with  a  50  percent  drop  in  appli- 
cations for  engineering,  but  we  couldn't 
face  the  same  drop  for  our  other  four 
schools.  So  we're  trying  to  take  that  story 
to  the  area.  That's  new." 

Also  relatively  new  is  cooperative  re- 


cruiting. There's  some  debate  about  the 
concept:  on  the  one  hand,  it  means  less 
duplication  of  effort,  and  it  can  be  a  way 
for  schools  from  the  same  region  to  enter  a 
faraway  market  with  a  minimum  of  effort. 
On  the  other  hand,  schools  emphasize 
their  individuality,  and  a  student  hearing 
about  three  liberal-arts  colleges  in  Penn- 
sylvania in  one  day,  for  example,  might 
find  it  hard  to  distinguish  among  F&M, 
Dickinson,  and  Gettysburg.  F&M  does 
belong  to  such  a  consortium:  "It's  most 
useful  in  faraway  places,"  says  Potier, 
"where  each  of  us  has  certain  strengths. 
But  it  does  tend  to  homogenize  our 
products." 

F&M  also  belongs  to  the  Keystone  Ad- 
missions Group,  13  private  colleges  in 
Pennsylvania  that  travel  cooperatively,  es- 
pecially in  Puerto  Rico.  "We  try  to  sell 
Pennsylvania  as  a  place  where  there's  a  lot 
happening  in  education."  Besides  saving 
money  for  its  members,  the  group  annu- 
ally yields  about  30  to  40  applicants  to 
F&M,  of  whom  about  six  to  eight  enroll. 
"But  it's  not  a  matter  of  getting  bodies," 
Potier  is  quick  to  add.  "I  could  go  to 
Teaneck,  New  Jersey,  and  get  bodies. 
These  kids  are  bilingual— often  trilin- 
gual—any good  college  should  be  trying  to 
get  a  cosmopolitan  group."  And,  for  the 


past  decade,  F&M  has  traveled  with  other 
East  Coast  colleges  to  eight  or  nine  major 
European  cities  each  year;  this  year,  WPI 
will  join  the  group.  "Most  of  the  kids 
we'll  see,"  says  Potier,  "are  carrying 
American  passports."  Of  the  20  or  so 
schools  involved,  institutional  types  sel- 
dom overlap. 

No  overlap,  no  direct  competition.  Any 
admissions  officer  worth  his  salt  can  reel 
off  the  names  of  his  institution's  competi- 
tors, often  in  1-2-3-4  ranking.  Sometimes 
the  information  is  intuitive,  sometimes  it  is 
couched  in  terms  of  precise  win-loss  to- 
tals: "Of  students  accepted  by  both  RPI 
and  M.I.T.,"  says  Chris  Small, "we  lose 
eight  out  often  to  M.I.T." 

All  too  often,  says  Robert  Zemsky, 
schools  have  their  eyes  on  the  wrong  com- 
petitors: "They  focus  on  the  big  heavy- 
hitters  against  them,  they  focus  on  where 
they  lose— not  on  where  they  win — or  if 
those  winning  markets  are  at  risk." 
Zemsky  and  his  colleagues  at  the  Higher 
Education  Finance  Institute  have  devel- 
oped a  market  model,  to  be  implemented 
by  the  College  Board  next  year,  that  will 
help  a  college  see  how  it  is  doing  in  the 
entire  complex  of  market  segments.  In  the 
case  of  an  engineering  school  like  RPI  or 
WPI,  Zemsky  says,  "those  markets  need 


to  have  some  SAT  weight,  a  fair  concen- 
tration of  engineering  students,  and  a  fair 
concentration  of  high-  or  middle-income 
families."  The  proposed  service  "will  pro- 
duce lists  of  top  markets  for  people,  who 
can  then  ask.  'Are  those  top  15  markets 
good  markets  for  me?  If  not,  why  not?'" 

Many  schools  are  already  asking  these 
questions.  To  find  out  why  accepted  stu- 
dents choose  to  attend— or  not  to  attend— 
their  institutions,  many  schools  send  such 
applicants  detailed  questionnaires.  Al- 
though the  response  rate  is  usually  good, 
the  results,  as  Hartwick's  Karyl  Preston 
points  out.  have  to  be  taken  with  a  grain  of 
salt:  "The  survey  is  done  over  the  sum- 
mer, and  there  is  a  problem:  Students  are 
somewhat  removed  from  their  thinking 
processes  in  making  the  decision  to  attend 
or  not."  Still,  a  school  may  discover,  as 
RPI  did,  that  its  Troy  location  was  per- 
ceived as  dull  and  grimy  (current  publica- 
tions work  to  counteract  that  image). 
Carleton  College  in  Minnesota  discovered 
from  its  survey  that  many  students  who 
had  decided  not  to  enroll  felt  the  school's 
library  was  inadequate.  Mystified,  the  ad- 
missions staff  took  a  close  look  at  the 
viewbook— and  discovered  that  the  library 
was  shown  from  the  back.  Terraced  into  a 
hill,  it  looked  only  two  stories  high.  They 
replaced  it  with  a  frontal  view— showing 
all  four  stories. 

^ks  the  applicant  pool  diminishes,  tui- 
/  ^ t;™  ■"  both  private  and  public 
JL  JL sectors— is  increasing.  "A  year 
at  college."  says  Jerrold  Footlick.  a  senior 
editor  at  Newsweek,  "has  always  cost 
what  a  new  Chevrolet  cost."  But  as  the 
price  of  a  new  Chevrolet  rises,  private  col- 
leges—where a  year  costs  about  the  same 
as  a  Chevrolet  with  a  lot  of  options- 
worry  that  students  will  opt  for  a  public 
education,  simply  because  of  price.  "I 
think  most  private  colleges  are  finding  that 
more  and  more  of  their  applicants  are  ap- 
plying to  at  least  one  state  institution," 
says  Karyl  Preston,  "particularly  those 
students  who  are  applying  for  financial 
aid.  They're  hedging  their  bets,  so  if  fi- 
nancial aid  doesn't  come  through,  they 
still  have  an  option."  Roy  Seaberg  agrees. 
"Cost  is  not  a  factor  in  the  decision  to 
matriculate  at  WPI  in  respect  to  competi- 
tion with  our  private  competitors.  That  is 
not  true  for  our  public  competitors." 

"I  can't  help  but  think  that  there  are  go- 
ing to  be  more  and  more  families  who  opt 
for  public  schools,  simply  based  on  price," 
says  Chris  Small  at  RPI.  "More  and  more, 
there  will  be  a  lot  of  rich,  not  so  bright 
kids  at  private  institutions." 


WPPs  window  collage  of  images 
reflects  the  comprehensive  nature 
of  a  technological  education* 


But  not  everyone  predicts  a  public-pri- 
vate showdown.  "There's  going  to  be 
competition  between  the  publics  and  the 
publics,  and  the  privates  and  the  privates," 
says  F&M's  Ron  Potier.  "We  just  don't 
cross.  People  position  themselves  very 
early.  Mom  and  Dad  and  the  kid  sit  there, 
and  Mom  and  Dad  say,  "We  can't  afford 
$10,000  a  year'— and  a  decision  is  made. 
The  kid  will  apply  to  public  schools." 

Robert  Zemsky  goes  one  step  further. 
Not  only  don't  private  and  public  sector 
compete;  they  can't:  "F&M  and  schools 
like  it  can't  out-compete  the  publics  by 
looking  like  a  public.  They  must  continue 
to  charge  high  enough  tuitions  to  continue 
the  same  quality  of  education  that  pro- 
duced their  reputations." 

"I  think  we're  at  the  beginning  crest  of  a 
fundamental  change  in  how  we  finance 
higher  education,"  Zemsky  adds.  "Paying 
for  college  is  a  ten-year  proposition.  You 
really  need  extended,  installment-like  pay- 
ing plans."  (Witness  the  Chevrolet.)  What 
Zemsky  hopes  will  emerge  are  "higher  ed- 
ucation banking  institutions,  to  provide— 
at  the  lowest  rate— capital  for  students  to 
finance  their  education."  The  University 
of  Pennsylvania,  for  example,  plans  to  of- 
fer its  students  (and  their  parents)  a  series 
of  payment  schedules:  A  parent  who  can 
pre-pay  the  student's  entire  tuition  gets  a  5 
percent  discount;  paying  the  first  year  in  a 
lump  sum  means  a  family  can  take  up  to 
ten  years  to  pay  the  remainder— at  the 
first-year  cost,  and  with  a  1 -percent  fi- 
nance charge.  Designed  to  appeal  to  fami- 
lies earning  $35,000  or  more,  these  plans 
are  straightforward  price  discounts. 

Price  discounts,  in  the  form  of  need- 
based  scholarships,  are  a  more  traditional 
staple  of  the  private  college  system.  "Fi- 
nancial aid,"  says  Chris  Small,  "is  nothing 
more  than  a  pricing  mechanism.  Without 
financial  aid,  the  average  market  of  stu- 
dents would  be  80  percent  smaller  for  most 
institutions."  Indeed,  an  institution's  an- 
nouncement of  a  tuition  increase  is  almost 
always  accompanied  by  a  notice  that  the 
amount  of  financial  aid  to  be  divided 
among  the  students  will  also  expand. 

"The  way  a  lot  of  colleges— not  F&M— 
get  financial  aid,"  says  Ron  Potier,  "is  out 


of  current  operating  expenses.  If  you  have 
a  child  paying  $10,000  and  I  have  one 
paying  $4,000,  part  of  what  you're  paying 
for  is  to  finance  my  kid.  Can  a  college  do 
this  morally?"  The  answer,  at  least  on  the 
part  of  such  institutions,  has  been  Yes. 

Today  another  traditional  kind  of  price 
discounting— no-need  or  merit  awards- 
has  raised  similar  questions.  Such  merit 
scholarships  have  been  around  for  years: 
RPI  has  recognized  the  top  student  in  sci- 
ence and  engineering  at  1,500  U.S.  high 
schools  with  a  medal  (and  are  automati- 
cally considered  for  a  $1000  no-need 
scholarship)  since  the  turn  of  the  century. 
RPI  also  has  alumni  scholarships  and  a 
special  honors  program  called  the  Pro- 


VI 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


vost's  Scholarships.  At  Hartwick,  about 
40  no-need  scholarships  are  given  each 
year,  some  on  academic  merit,  some  to 
recognize  student  leaders.  F&M  and  WPI, 
on  the  other  hand,  have  only  need-based 
aid,  and  neither  Ron  Potier  nor  Roy 
Seaberg  foresees  a  shift  in  policy. 

But  this  year,  no-need  grants  made 
headlines  even  outside  the  academic 
world.  Part  of  the  fuss  began  this  spring, 
when  Smith  and  Mount  Holyoke  an- 
nounced plans  to  award  $300  and  $400 
grants  for  academic  excellence,  with  no 
consideration  of  a  student's  need.  Al- 
though the  amounts  were  token  (tuition  at 
Mount  Holyoke  is  nearing  $9,000),  other 
educators    were    alarmed.    Walter    H. 


Moulton,  director  of  financial  aid  at  Bow- 
doin  College,  told  The  Chronicle  of 
Higher  Education,  "if  institutions  of  the 
caliber  of  Smith  and  Mount  Holyoke  start 
down  the  road,  those  institutions  having 
more  difficulty  recruiting  students  will  be 
inclined  to  follow  at  a  higher  level  of 
award.  .  .  .  The  price  eventually  will  have 
to  be  paid  by  the  needy  student." 

Many  people  agreed  with  Moulton,  and 
this  fall,  both  Smith  and  Mount  Holyoke 
dropped  the  scholarships,  saying  that  they 
hadn't  been  as  effective  as  they'd  hoped. 
Of  Smith  and  Mount  Holyoke 's  hesitant 
excursion  into  merit  scholarships,  Ron 
Potier  says,  "The  way  they  did  it  was  like 
being  a  little  bit  pregnant.  They  compro- 


mised themselves  for  nickels  and  dimes." 
Meanwhile,  Brandeis  University,  which 
offered  four-year  no-need  scholarships  of 
$2,500  to  $4,000  to  its  100  most  sought 
after  applicants,  is  pleased  with  the 
results:  about  30  percent  of  those  appli- 
cants decided  to  attend  Brandeis  this  fall- 
compared  to  about  1 2  percent  last  year. 

Some  admissions  officers  feel  that  no- 
need  scholarships  benefit  neither  school 
nor  student.  "They  further  distort  the  col- 
lege selection  process,"  says  Chris  Small. 
"The  kids  have  a  hard  enough  choice 
without  the  school  tossing  in  another 
5,000  bucks."  Roy  Seaberg  says  the  price- 
war  aspect  of  merit  scholarships  isn't  fair 
to  students,  either:  "We're  seeing  merit 
scholarships  offered  for  full  tuition  with  a 
two- week  deadline.  That  is  against  stan- 
dard admissions  practice  [May  1  is  the 
common  reply  date,  when  an  accepted  ap- 
plicant must  let  all  colleges  know  of  his 
plans].  When  a  merit  scholarship  is  of- 
fered with  a  two-week  deadline,  a  student 
may  plunk  down  the  tuition  deposit  for  his 
second-choice  school  to  play  it  safe."  (If, 
later,  he's  accepted  by  the  college  he  pre- 
fers, he  has  lost  the  earlier  deposit.) 

But  how  many  students  pick  their  sec- 
ond-choice school  because  it  offers  them  a 
no-need  grant?  Chris  Small  isn't  sure:  "A 
kid  isn't  going  to  come  to  RPI  rather  than 
M.I.T.  simply  because  we  gave  him  a 
$1,000  scholarship.  But  because  we  only 
offer  merit  awards  to  the  really  top  kids, 
there  is  a  strong  probability  of  just  such  an 
M.I.T.  or  Ivy  overlap."  Hartwick's  Karyl 
Preston  agrees:  "I'm  not  sure  a  no-need 
scholarship  is  going  to  buy  students  who 
really  want  to  attend  another  college— I 
think  it's  just  one  other  factor  thrown  in  the 
hopper." 

Wrhen  Roy  Seaberg  applied  to 
WPI  in  1952,  he  remembers, 
There  was  one  person  who  was 
director  of  admissions  and  also  dean  of 
students.  He  had  one  secretary."  Today, 
the  average  admissions  staff  at  a  private 
liberal  arts  college  numbers  5.9  profes- 
sionals, 5.7  clerical  workers.  At  the  aver- 
age private  research  university,  there  are  4 
professionals,  6.2  clerical  workers. 

But  if  there  has  been  a  change  in  size,  a 
change  in  methods,  a  change  in  jargon, 
most  admissions  officers  still  see  them- 
selves as  gatekeepers,  admitting  those  stu- 
dents who  will  most  benefit— as  well  as 
benefit  from— the  institution.  They  want 
to  keep  the  students  they  admit.  "We  still 
resist  advertising,"  says  one.  "We  like  to 
think  that  our  best  advertising  is  the  word- 
of- mouth  recommendation." 


NOVEMBER  1983 


VII 


Getting  Behind 
(and  Ahead  of) 
the  Weather 


By  Diane  Johnson 


INI  MAGA 


Droughts,  floods,  blizzards,  heat  waves- 
all  in  unexpected  places.  1983's  weather 
has  sent  climatologists  back  to  their 
predictive  models,  wondering 
what  went  wrong.  Meanwhile, 
meteorologists  work  to 
perfect  their  forecasting 
equipment  and  skills. 


This  year,  worldwide,  the  weather 
is  out-of-whack.  Here  in  the 
U.S.,  a  wet  winter  lingered 
longer  than  usual,  well  into  spring.  Then 
summer  hit  with  a  vengeance,  creating  a 
drought  which  has  caused  serious  grain 
shortfalls. 

An  unprecedented  drought  has  also 
parched  Australia,  while  torrential  rains 
caused  massive  flooding  and  mudslides  in 
Peru,  Ecuador,  and  Bolivia.  Europe's  heat 
wave  baked  natives  and  summer  tourists 
alike. 

Most  of  us  have  been  taking  Mother 
Nature's  punches  one  at  a  time,  from  bliz- 
zards to  broiling  temperatures.  But  mete- 
orologists are  preparing  for  a  major  change 
in  forecasting  the  weather  we  experience 
while  climatological  researchers  are  taking 
a  longer  view,  looking  at  what  makes  the 
erratic  weather  happen. 

Until  this  year,  climatologists  were  be- 
ginning to  believe  they  had  a  handle  on 
what  determines  the  aggregate  of  weather 
we  call  the  Earth's  climate.  Their  primary 
tools  are  mathematical  models— com- 
puter-generated twin  earths  which  mathe- 
matically describe  the  motions  of  the  at- 
mosphere and  oceans,  the  exchange  of 
heat  and  energy  that  makes  for  the  rela- 
tively orderly  changes  each  year  from  win- 
ter to  spring,  summer  to  fall. 

Using  historical  data,  the  models  allow 
researchers  to  compare  theories  about 
what  caused  past  warmings  and  subse- 
quent ice  ages.  Historical  data  also  pro- 
vide clues  to  understanding  if  the  Earth  is 
gradually  warming  up,  from  the  "green- 
house effect"  of  increasing  carbon  dioxide 
in  the  atmosphere.  Responding  to  a  dimin- 
ished output  from  the  sun.  Or  experiencing 
a  small  bump  in  the  emerging  pattern  of 
global  changes  in  temperature,  in  weather, 
or  in  climate,  which  have  taken  the  Earth 


A  single  day's  weather  patterns,  like 
those  in  these  infrared  images,  or  even 
those  from  a  series  of  days,  cannot  show  climate 
changes  caused  by  a  phenomenon  such  as  El 
Nino.  But  they  can  provide  clues.  Atypical 
weather  attributed  to  the  unusually  warm  Pa- 
cific current  includes  such  things  as  the  storm 
system  brewing  near  Tahiti  (almost  due 
south  of  Hawaii)  in  December  1982. 


P 


Pulsing  energy  into  the  atmosphere  at 
very  short  intervals,  Doppler  radar 
receives  information  from  the  echoes 
reflected  by  water  droplets  and  ice 
crystals  contained  in  a  storm.  Above, 
in  a  detail  from  a  Doppler  multimo- 
ment  display,  vector  arrows  indicate 
both  the  intensity  (reflectivity)  and  ve- 
locity of  those  particles.  The  rotary  cir- 
culation is  a  mesocyclone,  the  parent 
circulation  of  a  tornado. 


through  ice  ages  and  interglacial  warming 
periods. 

This  year  seems  to  be  revealing  a  dis- 
comforting fact.  The  predictive  models 
aren't  working.  The  debate  about  why  his- 
tory has  failed  to  predict  the  present 
weather  aberrations  centers  on  two  major 
culprits— affectionately  dubbed  "The  Big 
Es"— El  Nino  and  El  Chichon,  the  ocean 
current  and  the  volcano. 

"Nature  gave  us  the  two  greatest  gifts 
this  year— El  Nino  and  El  Chichon."  said 
Stephen  Schneider,  a  climatologist  at  the 
National  Center  for  Atmospheric  Re- 
search. "But  why  did  she  have  to  give  us 
the  two  biggest  at  the  same  time?  It  makes 
it  much  more  confusing  to  sort  out." 

El  Nino  has  been  a  misbehaving  child 
for  a  while  now.  The  Pacific  current  which 
sporadically  rises  off  the  coast  of  Peru  and 
Ecuador  bears  the  Spanish  name  for  the 
Christ  Child  because  it  usually  occurs 
around  Christmas.  Every  eight  to  ten 
years.  El  Nino  grows  more  intense  than 
usual,  and  its  nutrient-poor  waters  destroy 
the  rich  coastal  fishing.  But  this  El  Nino  is 
a  record-breaker:  The  current  has  been 
running  12  to  15  degrees  warmer  than 
usual  for  more  than  a  year. 

In  the  complex  web  of  interactions  of  air 
and  ocean  surfaces,  the  warm-running  El 
Nino  is  connected  to  a  failure  of  the  equa- 
torial trade  winds  that  normally  push 
warm  waters  away  from  the  South  Ameri- 
can coastline  into  the  broad  reaches  of  the 
western  Pacific.  Without  the  driving  force 
of  the  trade  winds,  the  warm  water  sloshes 
back  like  water  in  a  giant  basin,  pushing 
against  the  coasts  of  Ecuador  and  Peru, 
bringing  rain  to  normally  dry  areas. 

The  current's  "misbehavior"  and  the  di- 
minished trade  winds  have  triggered  a 
mini-reversal  of  weather.  Arid  regions  in 
Bolivia,  as  well  as  in  Ecuador  and  Peru, 
have  received  more  than  100  times  their 
usual  moisture.  On  the  other  end  of  the  see 
saw.  Indonesia,  the  Philippines,  and  Aus- 
tralia—which usually  garner  the  rainfall— 
now  have  droughts.  The  dryness  has 
moved  to  Sri  Lanka,  southern  India,  and 
Africa. 

Oceanographers  especially  are  inclined 
to  blame  El  Nino  for  all  the  current 
weather  woes.  Others  sound  a  cautionary 
note. 

"El  Nino  is  a  code  word  ...  a  symp- 
tom of  broader  variations  we  don't  under- 
stand. World  wide  there's  anomalous 
weather  produced  by  a  complex  set  of  cir- 
cumstances." according  to  meteorologist 
George  Benton  of  the  University  Corpora- 
tion for  Atmospheric  Research.  "I  doubt 
they  can  all  be  tracked  down  to  ocean  tem- 


perature anomalies  and  atmosphere-ocean 
circulation  patterns." 

Sorting  out  cause-and-effect  in  the  deli- 
cate balance  of  heat  and  moisture  between 
the  vast,  slow-moving  ocean  and  the  spin- 
ning atmosphere  would  be  hard  enough. 
But  then  there's  El  Chichon  to  contend 
with. 

When  the  Mexican  volcano  erupted  in 
April  1982.  it  made  history  as  one  of  the 
century's  most  significant  outbursts.  Situ- 
ated near  the  equator.  El  Chichon's  out- 
pourings of  acid  and  ash  were  taken  high 
into  the  atmosphere  and  circulated  around 
the  globe. 

It  exploded  with  enough  force  to  send 
tons  of  debris  about  26  miles  into  the  strat- 
osphere. (Mt.  St.  Helens,  by  contrast, 
reached  less  than  12  miles  high.)  Within  a 
month.  El  Chichon's  volcanic  veil  had 
crept  over  most  of  the  Northern  Hemi- 
sphere. While  most  heavy  ash  particles 
fell  to  earth  relatively  quickly,  what  still 
remains  aloft  is  largely  a  layer  of  fine  par- 
ticles of  sulfuric  acid,  ash,  and  salt.  (Just 
to  make  things  interesting.  El  Chichon 
was  sitting  over  a  natural  salt  dome  when 
it  blew.) 

Acid  and  sodium  chloride  can  play  hob 
with  the  chemical  equilibrium  of  the 
stratospheric  ozone  layer.  The  naturally 
occurring  layer  of  ozone  not  only  shields 
Earth  from  harmful  solar  ultraviolet  but 


Weather  Research 


Weather  does  influence  behavior— in  both 
animals  and  humans.  How  much,  though, 
is  not  clear.  Scientific  proof  is  hard  to 
come  by.  anecdotal  evidence  voluminous. 

Fiddler  crabs,  for  example,  have  been 
observed  to  retreat  to  inland  burrows  days 
before  a  hurricane's  arrival.  Horses  are 
more  apt  to  bolt  in  stormy  weather.  Log- 
gers in  the  Pacific  Northwest  are  said  to 
predict  snow  two  or  three  days  before  a 
blizzard  by  watching  the  gathering  of  elk 
in  the  shelter  of  trees. 

Among  humans,  a  falling  barometer  has 
been  blamed  for  everything  from  fainting 
spells  and  headaches  to  domestic  squab- 
bles and  suicides.  Certain  dry  winds  so 
notorious  they  have  earned  distinctive 
names— like  the  Foehn  in  Bavaria  and  the 
Chinook  that  blows  down  the  eastern 
slopes  of  the  Rocky  Mountains— have 
been  blamed  for  traffic  accidents,  short 
tempers,  and  embolisms,  among  other 
things.  And  enough  people  think  "positive 
ions"  in  the  air  are  bad  for  one's  health 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


also  plays  a  role  in  maintaining  the  Earth's 
temperature.  A  layer  of  particles  at  strato- 
spheric height  provides  a  tattered  um- 
brella, bouncing  some  of  the  sun's  rays 
back  into  space  before  they  reach  the 
Earth's  surface.  Thus,  according  to  global 
climate  models,  a  volcanic  cloud  can  re- 
duce the  world's  average  temperature  from 
a  quarter  of  a  degree  to  two  degrees  (C). 

When  Mt.  Tambora  erupted  in  Indone- 
sia in  1815,  it  left  an  interesting  global 
legacy;  New  England  farmers  dubbed  the 
following  year  "the  year  without  a  sum- 
mer." June  and  July  brought  frosts,  wreak- 
ing havoc  with  crops  and  creating  what 
scholars  have  identified  as  "the  last  great 
subsistence  crisis"  in  Europe. 

Painting  his  famous,  multi-hued  sunsets 
during  those  years,  Joseph  Mallord  Wil- 
liam Turner  wasn't  indulging  in  fanciful 
artistic  visions,  but  faithfully  representing 
the  brilliant  skies  colored  by  the  earth-cir- 
cling cloud  from  Tambora.  Volcanic  dusts 
adds  spectacular,  luminous  colors  to  sun- 
rises and  sunsets,  a  gentle  finale  to  the 
violent  rage  of  an  eruption. 

Recent  research  hints  at  another  intrigu- 
ing piece  of  Tambora 's  bequest,  Stephen 
Schneider  said.  While  Turner  was  painting 
his  sunsets  and  food  crops  were  freezing  in 
the  fields,  evidence  shows  that  the  jet 
stream  (the  fast-moving  river  of  air  in  the 
upper  atmosphere)  was  misdirected.  The 


jet  stream  usually  meanders  in  an  undulat- 
ing path  from  west  to  east,  but,  after  Tam- 
bora's  outburst,  it  apparently  shifted  and 
ran  almost  north  to  south,  steering  arctic 
air  directly  down  from  the  North  Pole  to 
New  England  and  Europe. 

Could  the  eruption  of  Mt.  Tambora 
somehow  have  influenced  the  jet  stream, 
in  effect  blowing  it  off  course?  "Give  me 
all  the  weather  and  ocean  temperature  rec- 
ords from  that  time  and  I  could  probably 
tell  you,"  Schneider  joked.  There's  only  a 
sparse  weather  record  for  the  early  19th 
century. 

Could  El  Chichon  have  played  a  similar 
role,  displacing  the  jet  stream  this  year? 
"Now  that's  a  very  interesting  question," 
Schneider  said— one  where  there  is  not  yet 
enough  evidence  to  provide  an  answer.  But 
he  believes  the  weather  anomalies  in  the 
equatorial  Pacific  are  clearly  related  to  an 
abnormal  jet  stream  path  this  year  and 
noted  that,  in  the  Northern  Hemisphere, 
where  El  Chichon 's  ejections  have  been 
most  marked,  the  jet  stream  is  still  off 
course;  the  "Mexican  Monsoon"  is  fur- 
ther west  than  usual,  creating  damp  rather 
than  dry  weather  in  California. 

Because  of  El  Nino  or  El  Chichon? 
"When  you're  dealing  with  multiple 
causes  of  a  similar  magnitude,  it's  all 
Ouija  boards  and  voodoo  dolls,"  he  said. 
By  throwing  in  wild  cards  like  El  Nino  and 


El  Chichon,  nature  is  not  playing  the 
weather  game  by  the  usual  rules  this  year. 
But  Schneider  is  confident  that  ultimately 
these  global-scale  aberrations,  which  are 
still  within  the  bounds  of  what  Mother 
Nature  apparently  considers  routine,  will 
prove  learning  experiences,  providing  new 
pieces  in  the  climate  puzzle. 

"1981  was  the  warmest  year  going,"  he 
said,  attributing  the  gradual  Earth-wide 
warming  to  humankind's  influences.  By 
pouring  carbon  dioxide  into  the  atmo- 
sphere on  an  unprecedented  scale,  through 
burning  fossil  fuels,  humanity  is  slowly 
but  surely  altering  the  climate.  Increased 
atmospheric  carbon  dioxide,  climate 
models  show,  acts  like  an  invisible  "secu- 
rity blanket."  It  traps  heat  which  reaches 
the  Earth  in  the  lower  atmosphere,  pre- 
venting it  from  radiating  away,  much  as 
glass  in  a  greenhouse  keeps  heat  in,  and  so 
is  labeled  "the  greenhouse  effect."  Global 
temperature  records  show  a  steady,  small 
increase  which  correlates  with  an  in- 
creased carbon  dioxide  output  from  a  bal- 
looning, and  more  industrialized,  world 
population. 

"However,  if  1982  is  as  warm  as  '81, 
then  there's  something  wrong  with  our 
volcano  theory.  We've  seen  half  a  degree 
drop  in  temperature  in  the  Northern  Hemi- 
sphere so  far,  and  that's  consistent  with  the 
volcano  theory." 


nd  the  Body  Human 


that  a  brisk  business  has  developed  in 
"negative-ion  generators"  said  to  counter 
their  effects. 

Little  in  the  vast  catalog  of  sins  ascribed 
to  the  weather  has  been  proven  outright  or, 
for  that  matter,  disproven.  The  problem  is, 
"weather"  takes  in  so  many  variables. 
Temperature,  atmospheric  pressure,  wind 
speed,  humidity,  ions,  and  electromag- 
netic fields  are  only  the  most  direct-acting 
ones.  The  variables  may  change  slowly  or 
suddenly.  They  may  act  singly  or  in  con- 
cert. 

The  history  of  biometeorology  is  rife 
with  examples  of  seemingly  clear-cut  phe- 
nomena turning  out  to  be  questionable  at 
best:  do  full  moons  "cause"  more  rapes? 
Or  is  it  simply  that  bright  nights  bring  out 
more  potential  victims?  Is  the  increased 
frequency  of  stroke  in  chillier  weather 
"due"  to  the  cold?  Or  to  winter's  respira- 
tory infections,  arduous  snow  shoveling, 
and  sometimes  depressive  boredom— all  of 
which  may  figure  in  a  stroke's  onset? 


Still,  researchers  do  know  something 
about  weather's  effects  on  mind  and  body. 
For  example,  a  body  at  rest  in  the  shade, 
the  motionless  air  at  91  degrees  Fahrenheit 
and  the  humidity  at  60  percent,  is  in  per- 
fect balance  with  its  surroundings:  it  feels 
neither  hot  nor  cold.  More:  An  abrupt 
drop  in  ambient  temperature  brings  with  it 
an  increase  in  blood  clotting  speed,  urina- 
tion volume,  capillary  resistance,  muscle 
glycogen,  and  a  variety  of  other,  distinct 
physiologic  responses,  aimed  at  restoring 
the  body's  homeostatic  harmony. 

Then,  too,  some  anecdotal  evidence 
does  get  seemingly  solid  research  support. 
For  example,  in  a  1963  experiment,  arthri- 
tis sufferers  were  placed  in  isolation  cham- 
bers where  "weather"  could  be  precisely 
controlled.  Researchers  found  that  simul- 
taneously dropping  barometric  pressure 
and  raising  relative  humidity  increased  ar- 
thritic pain  in  most  subjects.  (It  was  the 
abrupt  change,  not  the  maintenance  of  par- 
ticular values,  that  caused  the  worsening.) 


And  positive  ions  in  the  air  can,  as  a 
matter  of  fact,  bring  on  a  complex  of 
symptoms— migraine,  nausea,  irritability, 
and  respiratory  congestion— apparently  by 
affecting  the  brain's  levels  of  a  neurotrans- 
mitter called  serotonin.  Negative  ions,  at 
particular  concentrations,  do  indeed  seem 
to  counteract  the  positive  ions'  effect. 

Still,  for  all  the  blame  the  weather  takes, 
its  impact  can  be  viewed  in  the  end  as 
disappointingly  slight.  As  one  student  of 
the  subject,  biometeorologist  Michael  A. 
Persinger,  concluded  in  his  book  The 
Weather  Matrix  and  Human  Behavior, 
"The  effects  of  weather  change  upon  the 
human  population  are  very  insignificant. 
.  .  .  Except  for  the  blatant  turbulent 
forms,  such  as  tornados,  most  weather- re- 
lated events  evoke  changes  that  are  barely 
detectable  above  the  trials  and  tribulations 
of  daily  life. 

"Weather  effects  are  well-immersed  in 
the  background  noise  of  living." 

—Robert  Kanigel 


NOVEMBER  1983 


XI 


That  volcano  theory,  based  on  how  air- 
borne particles,  bouncing  back  incoming 
solar  radiation,  affect  atmospheric  behav- 
ior, provides  a  basis  for  gauging  the  im- 
pact of  large  volcanic  eruptions.  Models 
can  calculate  the  extent  to  which  a  dusting 
of  high-altitude  ash  will  decrease  the 
amount  of  sunlight  reaching  Earth's  sur- 
face and  drop  the  overall  temperature. 

Temperature  is  only  one  parameter  of 
global  climate,  Schneider  added.  "If  the 
weather  in  Iowa  City  and  New  Delhi  were 
to  reverse,  you'd  still  have  the  same  aver- 
age global  temperature,  but  not  the  same 
weather,"  he  said. 

A  verage  temperature  is  a  handy  indi- 

^^kcator  of  global  goings-on,  interest- 
JL  JLing.  but  less  than  relevant  to 
most  people.  (The  old  joke  among  meteo- 
rologists goes  this  way:  a  person  with  his 
head  in  an  oven  and  his  feet  in  a  bucket  of 
ice  water  shouldn't  complain,  because,  on 
the  average,  he's  got  a  comfortable  tem- 
perature.) 

And  temperature  is  just  a  piece  of  the 
weather  we're  interested  in  where  we  live 
and  work  and  play.  Hot  or  cold,  yes.  But 
we  want  to  know  if  it  will  be  dry  or  wet.  If 
the  moisture  will  be  rain  or  snow  or  fog. 
How  long  will  it  last? 

What  will  the  weather  be?  When  we  ask 
that,  usually  we're  not  concerned  with 
half-degree  changes  in  the  world's  temper- 
ature or  erratic  movements  of  the  jet 
stream. 

We're  looking  for  an  answer  in  the  form 
of  a  short-term  forecast,  on  what  meteo- 
rologists call  the  mesoscale.  Meso  means 
middle  and  mesoscale  meteorology  is  mid- 
way between  global  drought-patterns  and 
the  minute  antics  of  cloud  droplets  within 
the  roiling  interior  of  a  single  thunderhead. 

Mesoscale  forecasts  are  for  an  area 
about  the  size  of  a  metropolitan  region,  for 
times  about  the  life  of  a  storm  system. 
They  provide  the  basis  for  our  decision 
making.  Whether  to  go  on  a  picnic.  More 
serious  concerns  such  as  whether  the  day 
will  be  safe  for  sailing.  Even  life  and  death 
decisions:  Should  we  evacuate  Galveston 
because  of  Hurricane  Alicia? 

To  enable  us  to  make  the  right  deci- 
sions, we  depend  on  storm-sized  informa- 
tion, projected  a  few  hours  or  a  day  in 
advance.  And  it's  here,  on  the  mesoscale, 
that  a  combination  of  research  efforts  now 
coming  to  fruition  and  advances  in 
weather-observing  technology  hold  an  ex- 
citing promise  for  better,  more  useful 
weather  forecasting. 

As  George  Benton  explains  it,  three  key 
pieces  contribute  to  this  potential: 


•  An  accurate  description  of  what's 
happening  now.  "The  importance  of  this 
information  is  frequently  underestimated," 
Benton  said.  Yet  detailed  information  on 
what  is  happening  at  a  particular  location 
can,  for  example,  indicate  the  approach  of 
a  strong  storm  front  with  heavy  windshear. 
Knowing  when  a  storm's  possibly  lethal 
conditions  have  almost  reached  an  airport, 
for  instance,  means  a  runway— or  even  the 
terminal  itself— can  be  quickly  and  briefly 
shut  down  to  avoid  having  a  violent  down- 
burst  slam  an  incoming  plane  into  the 
ground.  The  technology  to  provide  such 
instantaneous  weather  details  is  available 
now. 

•  An  extrapolation  of  present  condi- 
tions into  the  near  future:  If  a  storm  is 
moving  northeast,  how  long  will  it  con- 
tinue in  that  direction?  And  at  what  rate? 
When  will  it  reach  a  particular  city,  a  lake, 
a  canyon,  or  an  airport? 

•  Intensification  of  a  storm  system:  Is 
the  squall  line  of  storms  going  to  grow 
more  intense  in  the  next  hour,  or  weaken? 

Projecting  into  the  future  and  determin- 
ing if  a  storm  is  intensifying  are  closely 
linked.  A  storm  cell  or  system  has  a  typi- 
cal life  cycle.  Knowing  if  it's  an  infant 
growing  and  gathering  strength  or  a  tired 
oldster  that  has  just  about  spent  its  fury 
will  make  forecasting  much  more  accu- 
rate. 

Yet  identifying  the  exact  stages  of  storm 
development  and  being  able  to  spot  storms 
which  will  not  follow  the  "typical"  pattern 
require  more  research  and  a  better  under- 
standing of  the  physics  of  mesoscale 
weather,  Benton  said.  Since  the  meteorol- 
ogists' natural  laboratory  is  the  atmo- 
sphere itself,  making  observations  on  trie 
weather  requires  working  in  the  field, 
scrutinizing  both  the  weather  and  the  per- 
formance of  new  techniques  for  observing 
it. 

Most  of  the  new  technologies  were 
wheeled  into  place  this  summer  for  a  field 
test  of  the  weather  service  of  the  future— 
the  Program  for  Regional  Observing  and 
Forecasting  Services  (PROFS). 

Heading  up  the  real-life  test  team  was 
meteorologist  Tom  Schlatter.  His  group  of 
researchers  at  the  National  Oceanic  and 
Atmospheric  Administration  (NOAA) 
were  given  what  he  terms  "one  of  the 
hardest  problems  in  meteorology" — de- 
tailing and  making  short-term  predictions 
of  convective  weather— storms  which 
bring  rain,  tornados,  hail,  floods,  and  high 
winds. 

It's  a  difficult  problem  because  convec- 
tive phenomena  are  brief  and  small.  A  typ- 
ical storm  lives  from  half  an  hour  to  an 


hour  and  may  cover  an  area  only  about 
five  miles  across. 

Living  day-to-day,  we  rarely  bother  to 
predict  small,  short-term  happenings. 
Most  of  us  could  confidently  say  when 
we're  likely  to  be  at  home  or  work,  or 
somewhere  else,  for  the  next  few  days. 
But  you  can't  predict— hours  or  days  in 
advance— when  you  may  sneeze,  get  a 
headache,  or  have  to  scratch  your  foot. 

Yet  in  terms  of  size  and  duration,  these 
"personal  forecasts"  are  comparable  to 
predicting  mesoscale  storms  for  this 
country. 

And  like  forecasting  a  sneeze,  forecast- 
ing a  storm  becomes  easier  and  more  cer- 
tain as  you  get  closer  in  time  to  the  event. 
You  know,  moments  before  it  happens, 
when  a  sneeze  is  coming,  maybe  with 
enough  warning  to  grab  a  handkerchief. 
You  could,  perhaps,  make  a  better  forecast 
if  you  could  find  out  there's  a  cluster  of 
tiny  pollen  particles  approaching  first  your 
neighborhood,  then  your  house,  then  the 
chair  where  you're  sitting.  And  decide  if 
you  were  going  to  wait  for  the  pollen  to 
reach  your  nose,  or  grab  for  the  Kleenex, 
or  leave  the  room  and  head  upstairs. 

On  the  scale  of  a  storm,  rather  than  pol- 
len particles,  that's  the  kind  of  information 
the  future  forecasts  can  bring. 

"Instead  of  saying  'There's  a  30-percent 
chance  of  thundershowers  this  afternoon 
in  the  Denver  area,'  we're  able  to  say  that 
there's  a  large  cloud  over  Boulder  [35 
miles  northwest  of  Denver]  and  it's  mov- 
ing slowly  eastward,  indicating  it  will  give 
heavy  rain  in  that  area,"  Schlatter  said. 

"The  technology  is  here  to  bring  in  this 
information  and  display  it.  But  it  takes  a 
lot  of  ingenuity  by  meteorologists  to  make 
it  work  .  .  .   and  work  well." 

Tomorrow's  forecasting  center  is  in  an 
evolutionary  phase  today,  he  explained; 
the  PROFS  system  is  a  prototype  of  what 
it  can  be.  The  future  weather  service  of- 
fice will  have  precise,  instantaneous  com- 
puter displays  far  different  from  the  color 
radar  pictures  TV  weathercasters  have 
made  familiar. 

"Detailed  local  and   regional   weather 

NOAA  uses  this  Doppler  radar  (in 
Boulder,  Colorado)  to  measure  winds. 
Its  readouts  are  similar  to  the  one 
above,  which  uses  an  arbitrarily  as- 
signed color  mix  ranging  from  cool  to 
hot  to  emphasize  a  storm's  areas  of 
higher  intensities  and  thus  its  severity. 
A  similar  display  shows  how  fast  the 
storm  is  moving  toward  or  away  from 
the  antenna. 


XII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


'/ 


^Mr 


data  in  full,  living  color"  is  what  the  fore- 
caster gets.  Schlatter  said,  demonstrating 
the  system.  A  touch  on  an  indicator  panel 
calls  up  weather  information  on  every 
scale:  A  satellite  picture  of  the  entire  U.S. 
A  close-up  of  a  state  or  region. 

Another  touch  and  the  satellite  picture 
zooms  into  a  city-sized  area  of  a  few 
square  miles,  showing  the  distribution  of 
clouds. 

Another  touch  of  the  finger  calls  up  a 
display  of  weather  in  the  region.  Radar 
pictures  showing  storms  or  air  move- 
ments, with  colors  indicating  the  intensity 
of  the  storm  and  the  direction  it's  moving. 
Wind  patterns  near  the  ground  and  aloft. 

A  menu  of  additional  information  can  be 


summoned.  Overlays  showing  county, 
city,  or  state  boundaries  can  be  added,  or 
regional  topography. 

Underlying  the  graphic  displays  is  a  host 
of  data  from  a  dense  network  of  observing 
devices:  Doppler  radar  readings.  Informa- 
tion from  "profilers"  which  probe  the  at- 
mosphere with  microwave  pulses  to  detail 
wind  motions.  Readings  of  temperature, 
dew  point,  solar  radiation  and  wind,  all 
piped-in  from  a  grid  of  remote  observing 
stations.  Satellite  data  on  clouds  and  their 
motions,  winds,  and  temperature.  Light- 
ning detectors  which  locate  electrical  ac- 
tivity. More  information  from  radiosonde 
balloons,  conventional  radar,  even  reports 
from  airline  pilots  feed  into  the  computers 


and  are  instantaneously  transformed  into 
displays  on  the  screen. 

How  useful  is  this  cornucopia  of  infor- 
mation? To  find  out,  forecasters  from 
every  weather  service  region  as  well  as 
researchers  and  forecasters  from  the  pri- 
vate sector  came  to  the  PROFS  facility  this 
summer. 

They  were  divided  into  groups  which 
competed  with  each  other  in  testing  their 
forecasting  skills.  One  used  the  coven- 
tional  weather  information  systems,  maps, 
and  data.  The  other  used  only  PROFS-pro- 
vided  information.  "They  were  allowed  to 
go  out  on  the  roof  and  look  at  the  sky, 
though,"  Schlatter  chuckled.  "They 
insisted  on  it."  (Spending  a  Colorado  sum- 


Aerial  view  of  El  Chichon  (right),  taken  June  2, 
1982,  shows  the  new  crater  formed  in  place  of  the 
original  summit  dome— blown  off  during  the 
March- April  1982  eruptions.  Located  in  Chiapas 
State  in  southeastern  Mexico,  El  Chichon  exploded 
on  March  28  (a  powerful  follow-up  came  April  4). 
A  satellite  image  taken  March  29  shows  a  light  haze 
over  southeastern  Mexico;  by  April  5,  ash  injected 
into  the  atmosphere  from  the  eruptions  had 
reached  southern  Texas.  Layers  of  volcanic  cloud 
were  observed  at  altitudes  of  12  to  16  miles. 


XIV     ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


mer  in  a  darkened  room,  lit  only  by  com- 
puter displays,  was  asking  too  much,  even 
from  those  dedicated  to  improving  their 
forecasting  skills.) 

Forecasters  who  have  worked  with  the 
new  system  "have  had  a  taste  of  honey. 
They  want  the  system  and  they  want  it 
badly,"  Schlatter  said.  Impressed  by  the 
information  and  detail  in  the  system,  the 
visiting  forecasters  nevertheless  criticized 
what  PROFS  does  not  yet  offer.  For  exam- 
ple, one  feature  makes  an  instant  film  loop 
of  four  frames  of  cloud  motion.  Playing 
the  loop  forwards  and  backwards  shows 
the  immediate  past  motions  of  the  storm 
and  gives  hints  about  its  future  behavior.  A 
longer  loop,  incorporating  more  than  four 
snapshots  of  a  storm,  would  be  even  more 
useful,  the  forecasters  said. 

Most  of  the  list  of  "wants"  are  improve- 
ments already  under  development,  Schlat- 
ter said.  But  the  forecasters'  comments 
and  criticisms  will  guide  the  refinement  of 
the  operational  weather  station  of  the 
future. 

That  system  is  designed  to  be  adapted  to 
each  geographical  locale  where  it  will  be 
used.  In  the  Rocky  Mountain  region  where 
PROFS  is  being  tested,  for  example, 
knowing  where  a  storm  is  situated  along 
the  canyons  and  drainages  can  be  critical: 
A  storm  anchored  above  the  Big  Thomp- 
son Canyon  produced  the  disastrous  1976 
flood.  The  moisture-laden  storm  dropped 
10  to  12  inches  of  rain  into  the  narrow, 
impermeable  mountain  canyon  in  a  matter 
of  hours.  The  water  had  no  soil  to  absorb 
it.  Instead,  it  roared  down  the  rocky,  nar- 
row canyon,  sweeping  away  bridges, 
highways,  homes,  and  tourist  resorts,  and 
claiming  the  lives  of  139  people. 

"With  this  new  kind  of  weather  infor- 
mation, I  think  we  could  handle  a  situation 
like  the  Big  Thompson  much  better," 
Schlatter  said.  The  system  has  yet  to  be 
tested  for  predicting  fog,  high  winds,  or 
dust  storms.  "Progress  in  these  areas  de- 
pends on  the  lifetime  of  the  phenomenon." 

"There  are  exciting  trends  in  improving 
short-range  forecasting,"  according  to 
George  Benton.  No  "scientific  break- 
throughs" are  required.  "It's  a  question  of 
getting  the  equipment  into  place.  Ten 
years  is  not  an  unreasonable  time  scale" 
for  revamping  the  nation's  weather  sys- 
tems, in  his  opinion. 

"We  need  to  work  it  out,  but  not  in  a 
monolithic  way,"  Benton  said.  "The  big 
problem  is,  research  has  steadily  moved 
ahead  while  the  operational  aspects  have 
been  inadequately  funded."  Research  is 
relatively  inexpensive,  he  explained, 
while  retooling  the  nation's  weather  ob- 


Early  Weather  Instruments 


Modern  meteorological  instruments  go 
back  only  to  post-Renaissance  Italy. 
There,  in  the  first  decade  of  the  17th  cen- 
tury, was  invented  the  first  crude  progeni- 
tor of  the  thermometer— really  just  a  long- 
necked  flask  inverted  into  a  dish  of  water. 
An  early  anemometer,  or  wind-measuring 
device,  came  along  a  few  years  later,  fol- 
lowed in  1664  by  Evangelista  Torricelli's 
barometer. 

Credit  for  the  barometer  goes  to  Torri- 
celli  largely  on  the  strength  of  his  famous 
account  of  a  crucial  experiment:  "We  live 
submerged  at  the  bottom  of  an  ocean  of 
elementary  air."  It  seemed  to  him  possible, 
he  wrote,  "to  make  an  instrument  which 
might  show  the  changes  of  the  air,  now 
heavier  and  coarser,  now  lighter  and  more 
subtle."  In  the  experiment,  he  filled  a  thin 
glass  tube,  sealed  at  one  end,  with  liquid 
mercury,  then  inverted  it  in  a  flask  of  mer- 
cury open  to  the  air.  Opposed  only  by  a 
vacuum,  the  mercury  would  rise  in  the 
tube  to  a  height  corresponding  to  the 
weight  of  the  "ocean  of  air"  above  it. 

Torricelli's  apparatus  was  designed  not 
so  much  to  measure  atmospheric  pressure 
as  to  demonstrate  the  existence  of  a  vac- 
uum, a  notion  still  much  in  dispute  in 
those  days.  Later,  the  18th  and  19th  centu- 
ries would  refine  meteorological  instru- 


ments, creating  mechanical  contrivances 
of  impressive  ingenuity  and  sometimes 
considerable  beauty.  The  20th  century 
would  miniaturize  such  instruments 
through  electronics,  and  feed  their  raw 
data  into  great  number-crunching  com- 
puters. But  the  earliest  instruments  were, 
like  Torricelli's  barometer,  developed 
largely  to  explore  basic  physical  concepts, 
not  to  help  forecast  the  weather. 

Many  early  scientific  luminaries  had  a 
hand  in  designing  meteorological  instru- 
ments. Galileo,  by  all  accounts,  came  up 
with  an  early  thermometer.  It  was  Des- 
cartes who  first  added  a  scale  to  Torricel- 
li's barometer.  Leibniz  conceived  a  bel- 
lows-type barometer.  The  mathematician, 
architect,  and  all-around  genius  Sir  Chris- 
topher Wren  designed  an  instrument  that 
not  only  measured  weather  but  also  re- 
corded it.  He  called  the  device  a  "weather 
clock." 

And  even  before  Messrs.  Fahrenheit 
and  Celsius,  Sir  Isaac  Newton  came  up 
with  a  thermometer.  It  used  linseed  oil  as 
the  thermometric  liquid,  assigned  zero  de- 
grees to  the  freezing  point  of  water,  and 
took  as  its  upper  fixed  point  "blood 
heat"— the  temperature  of  the  human 
body— which  Newton  defined  as  12 
degrees.  —  RK 


Long-range  Weather 


"Astronomers  think  of  weather  as  the 
messy  stuff  you  have  to  get  above,"  says 
Michael  Seeds.  Seeds,  an  astronomer 
who  also  directs  the  Grundy  Observatory 
at  Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  takes 
the  long-range  view  when  it  comes  to  the 
Earth's  weather.  "The  last  ice  age  started 
about  three  million  years  ago— and  isn't 
over  yet,"  he  reminds  you.  "There's  still 
ice  on  the  polar  caps.  We're  between  gla- 
ciations  now— but  in  another  20,000  years 
or  so,  the  glaciers  may  return."  Seeds  says 
that  astronomers  and  meteorologists  are 
currently  studying  the  relation  between  the 
ice  age  and  secular  variations  in  the 
Earth's  orbit — minor  oscillations  about  a 
stable  mean  that  seem  to  have  affected  cli- 
mate. 

Although  Seeds  thinks  "the  orbital 
changes  are  going  to  dominate,"  he 
doesn't  underestimate  the  effects  of  a 


warming  trend:  "Digging  carbon  com- 
pounds out  of  the  Earth  and  burning  them, 
nuclear  fuel,  solar-power  stations  in  or- 
bit—whatever the  method— they're  still 
pumping  energy  into  Earth's  atmosphere. 
When  the  electricity  goes  through  your 
toaster,  it's  warming  the  atmosphere." 

Closer  to  the  present.  Seeds  notes,  the 
Voyager  flybys  of  Jupiter  may  provide 
some  clues  to  Earth's  current  weather. 
"The  explorations  gave  good  information 
on  Jupiter's  weather  patterns.  Although 
Jupiter  is  much  larger  than  Earth,  it  has  no 
continents,  no  mountains,  nothing  to  dis- 
turb weather  patterns."  Because  "it's  sim- 
pler," people  building  models  to  predict 
Jupiter's  weather  patterns  are  having  much 
more  success  than  with  predictive  models 
for  Earth's  weather.  "If  they  can  learn 
from  Jupiter,  eventually  modelling  Earth's 
weather  may  go  better."  — MRY 


NOVEMBER  1983       XV 


serving  system  runs  smack  into  the  politi- 
cal process  of  budget  allocations. 

Doppler  radar,  for  example,  provides 
more  detailed,  accurate  information  than 
the  outmoded  radars  still  being  used  by  the 
National  Weather  Service.  "Doppler  has 
been  used  for  years  and  years  and  years  in 
research  and  was  ready  to  move  into  oper- 
ations a  number  of  years  ago.  But  the  fed- 
eral budget  still  doesn't  call  for  full  Dop- 
pler development   until   around    1993." 

Benton  foresees  a  new  system  which 
would  accommodate  the  needs  of  each 
particular  area.  New  York  City,  for  in- 
stance, could  have  a  network  of  weather 
stations  connected  to  a  central  office 
providing  information  for  industrial  and 
private  clients,  the  port  authority,  and  air- 
ports, as  well  as  the  general  public.  Its 
instrumentation  would,  of  course,  differ 
from  what  a  remote  inland  area  would 
require. 

Air  safety  as  well  as  forecasting  could 
be  improved  with  the  new  weather 
monitoring  systems.  Regardless  of  safety 
concerns,  he  said,  "the  major  budget  deci- 
sions to  upgrade  equipment  have  been  put 
off  and  put  off." 

The  Federal  Aviation  Administration, 
the  Department  of  Defense,  and  major  in- 
dustries are  beginning  to  see  the  value  of 


improved  weather  systems  for  their  own 
needs.  But,  George  Benton  noted,  no  one 
should  underestimate  the  public's  interest 
in  weather  information. 
Some  of  the  indicators: 

•  About  a  billion  calls  are  placed  each 
year  to  taped  telephone  weather  reports. 
At  IOC  a  call,  the  public  pays  about  $100 
million  annually  for  capsule  weather  infor- 
mation. 

•  The  NOAA  Weather  Radio  Network 
broadcasts  continuous  reports  on  a  dedi- 
cated frequency.  Special  radios  required  to 
tune  in,  which  run  between  $14  and  $75 
each,  sell  at  a  $100-million-a-yearclip. 

•  Surveys  show  people  consider  the 
weather  report  the  most  important  segment 
of  television  news.  Producing  TV  weather 
reports  costs  about  $500  million  a  year. 

•  The  amount  of  weather  information 
on  radio  is  equivalent  to  four  stations 
broadcasting  continuously  24  hours  a  day. 
Its  pricetag?  About  $1  billion  annually. 

The  costs  of  simply  distributing  weather 
information  is  about  $1.7  billion— more 
than  eight  times  the  budget  of  the  National 
Weather  Service  itself. 

Today's  weather  service  is  made  up  of 
about  a  hundred  regional  offices  across  the 
country.  "If  each  had  an  observing  radius 
of  about  150  km  [approximately  90  miles, 


Record  Weather 

For  meteorologists,  weather  records  are 
raw  data,  to  be  fitted  into  theories  and  pre- 
dictions. Record  weather,  on  the  other 
hand,  is  interesting  in  itself:  Just  how  hot 
did  it  get  in  El  Azizia,  Libya,  on  Septem- 
ber 12,  1922? 

On  that  day,  the  hottest  day  ever  re- 
corded, the  temperature  was  136°F 
(56°C).  That  outshines  the  hottest  day  on 
record  in  the  U.S.:  On  July  10,  1913, 
Death  Valley  reached  134°F  (57°C). 

Which  brings  up  the  coldest  temperature 
on  record:  -126.9°F  (-88.3°C)  in  Vos- 
tok,  Antarctica,  on  August  24,  1960. 
(Wind  chill  is  not  included,  of  course.  The 
highest  surface  wind  speed  ever  recorded 
was  231  mph,  atop  6,288-ft.  Mt.  Wash- 
ington, New  Hampshire,  on  April  12, 
1934.) 

In  24  hours— March  15-16,  1952— 
73.62  inches  (or  1,870  mm)  of  rain  fell  in 
Cilaos  La  Reunion  in  the  Indian  Ocean 
(compared  to  43  inches  in  Alvin,  Texas, 
July  25-26,  1979).  In  one  month,  366.14 
inches  of  rain  fell  in  Cherrapunji  in  the 
Indian  state  of  Assam — signalling  the  last 
month  of  a  rainy  season  (August  1860- 


July  1861)  in  which  1,041.78  inches 
(26.461  mm)  of  rain  were  recorded.  At  the 
other  end  of  the  spectrum  is  Arica,  Chile, 
where  no  rain  fell  from  October  1903 
through  December  1917—  171  months. 

When  it  comes  to  snowfall,  the  U.S. 
firmly  holds  the  record.  In  24  hours,  April 
14-15,  1921,  75.8  inches  of  snow  (193 
cm)  fell  in  Silver  Lake,  Colorado.  A  sin- 
gle storm  dumped  189  inches  (480  cm)  on 
Mt.  Shasta  Ski  Bowl,  California,  February 
13-19,  1959.  In  January  191 1,  390  inches 
(991  cm)  fell  on  Tamarack,  California, 
and  the  1971-72  snow  season  brought 
1,122  inches  (2,850  cm)  of  snow  to  Para- 
dise Ranger  Station,  Mt.  Rainier, 
Washington. 

And  to  end  on  weather's  vicissitudes: 
the  greatest  change  in  temperature  re- 
corded in  a  day  is  100°F  (a  drop  from 
44°F  to  -56°F)  in  Browning,  Montana, 
January  23-24,  1916.  The  largest  upswing 
in  temperature— 49°F  in  only  two  min- 
utes—came on  January  22,  1943,  when  the 
temperature  in  Spearfish,  South  Dakota, 
went  from  -4°F  at  7:30  a.m.  to  45°F  at 
7:32.  -MRY 


the  size  of  the  PROFS  network  deployed 
in  Colorado],  there  wouldn't  be  a  whole 
lot  of  holes,"  Tom  Schlatter  said.  Yet  even 
Schlatter  is  not  ready  to  move  the  system 
into  immediate  operation.  Sophisticated 
new  equipment  needs  to  be  evaluated, 
tested,  and  refined.  Experience  is  required 
to  devise  the  right  monitoring  systems  to 
fill  in  the  "holes"  in  a  nationwide  observ- 
ing network.  And,  perhaps  most  impor- 
tantly, forecasters  themselves  need  train- 
ing in  using  the  new  weather  data  displays. 

"There  are  probably  not  a  dozen  meteo- 
rologists in  the  whole  country  who  could 
tell  you  what  all  of  this  means,"  Schlatter 
said,  motioning  to  the  full  display  of 
weather  readouts  on  the  PROFS  screen. 
Doppler  radar  also  gives  a  different,  less 
familiar  pattern  of  radar  information, 
which  can  mislead  the  untrained  user. 

Now  on  the  drawing  board  is  a  National 
STORM  Program.  (In  this  case,  STORM 
is  an  almost-acronym  for  S7brmscale  Op- 
erational and  Research  Meteorology.)  Its 
aim:  to  bring  together  research  in  the  dy- 
namics of  the  small-scale  weather  phe- 
nomena such  as  thunderstorms,  flash 
floods,  and  freezing  rain  and  then  to  test 
the  new  observing  technologies  against  the 
rigors  of  reality. 

The  weather  is  not  simply  an  easy 
conversational  topic.  In  the  aver- 
age year— and  so  far  1983  has 
been  far  from  average— weather  creates 
about  $20  billion  in  damages  in  the  U.S. 
and  claims  more  than  1000  lives. 

The  National  Academy  of  Sciences-Na- 
tional Academy  of  Engineering  recently 
tried  forecasting  important  topics  in  mete- 
orology for  the  next  decade.  It  singled  out 
mesoscale  meteorology  and  climate  stud- 
ies as  two  of  three  areas  of  importance. 

The  third  such  area  identified  was  "geo- 
chemical  cycles,"  a  lumpy,  hydra-headed 
monster  which  includes  acid  rain  and  its 
effects,  life  cycles  of  heavy  metals,  and 
cycles  of  sulfur,  nitrogen,  and  carbon.  Hu- 
mankind has  been  making  massive 
changes  in  these  natural  cycles  through  in- 
dustrialization, agricultural  practices,  and 
the  widespread  use  of  fossil  fuels. 

The  dimensions  of  that  story  are  equally 
global.  And  the  question  of  how  humani- 
ty's own  activities  are  altering  not  only  the 
weather  and  the  climate  but  also  the  whole 
biological  web  of  life  is  almost  as  hard  to 
decipher  as  the  game  Nature  is  playing  as 
she  deals  us  the  wild  cards  of  El  Nino  and 
El  Chichon. 

Diane  Johnson  is  a  free-lance  writer  liv- 
ing in  Boulder,  Colorado. 


XVI     ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


WPI  CIASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President.  Harr>  W.  Tenney.  "56 
Senior  Vice  President.  Donald  E.  Ross.  "54 
Vice  President.  Paul  W.  Bayliss.  "60 
Secretary  -Treasurer.  Stephen  J.  Hebert.  "66 
Past  President.  Peter  H   Horstmann.  '55 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large 

Henry  R  Allessio.  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank.  "46 
Wilham  J.  Firla.  Jr..  "60 
JohnM.  McHugh.  "56 

Fund  Board 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin.  Jr..  "56 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53 

Gerald  T.  Dyer.  '56 

Gerald  Finkle.  "57.  Chair 

Allen  H.  Levesque.  '59.  Vice  Chair 

C.  John  Lindegren.  Jr..  "39 

Philip  H.  Puddington.  "59 

George  R  Strom.  '56 


1924 


Reunion 


1928 


May  31 -June  3,  1984 


Laurette  and  Gabriel  Bedard  of  Springfield. 
MA.  celebrated  their  50th  wedding  anniversary 
in  April.  Mrs.  Bedard.  who  graduated  from 
Westfield  Normal  School,  was  employed  by  the 
State  Board  of  Education  in  Hartford.  CT.  Mr. 
Bedard  was  superintendent  of  Fire  Alarm  and 
Police  Signals  for  the  City  of  Springfield,  retir- 
ing in  1966. 


1929 


Reunion 


1930 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


MARRIED:  Kate  Wagner  and  Fred  Peters  on 
June  1 1.  1983.  Fred  says  he  and  Kate  plan  to 
attend  the  55th  reunion.  (His  first  wife.  Peg. 
died  several  years  ago.) 

The  Carl  Backstroms  and  the  Roscoe  Bo- 
werses  attended  a  regional  meeting  of  the  South 
West  Florida  WPI  alumni  group  while  in  Flor- 
ida last  winter. 

John  Conley,  who  retired  in  1967.  currently 
resides  in  San  Diego.  CA.  He  keeps  busy  with 
the  Lions  Club  as  treasurer  and  as  chairman  of  a 


committee  on  services  to  the  blind.  Besides 
tending  his  yard  and  playing  a  little  golf,  he 
attends  adult  education  classes  in  a  Continuing 
Education  program  affiliated  with  San  Diego 
Stale 

Herb  Davis  reports  from  Florida  that  he  was 
very  ill  last  winter,  but  is  now  on  the  mend  and 
hopes  to  visit  his  relatives  in  Massachusetts 
soon. 

Norman  Enman  of  Amherst.  MA.  retired  in 
1978  after  managing  the  Lord  Jeffrey  Inn  and 
University  Motor  Lodge  for  30  years.  Norman 
keeps  busy  with  golf,  gardening  and  town  poli- 
tics. He  and  his  wife.  Mary  jane,  enjoy  trips  to 
Florida. 

Myrt  Finney  reports  that  his  wife  passed 
away  last  year.  He  is  still  living  in  Stroudsburg. 
PA.  and  keeps  in  touch  with  a  few  of  his  class- 
mates. 

George  Marston  writes  that  he  hopes  to 
make  the  55th  class  reunion.  He  planned  to  take 
an  Elderhostel  course  at  the  University  of  Min- 
nesota in  July  It's  been  20  years  since  he  retired 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts  at 
Amherst. 

The  Jim  McLoughlins  recently  returned 
from  a  50th  wedding  anniversary  trip  to 
St.  Thomas.  Jim  continues  on  the  board  of  di- 
rectors of  the  Fort  Nathan  Hale  Restoration 
Project  He  also  does  volunteer  work  at  the 
New  Haven  Colony  Historical  Society,  writes 
articles  about  New  Haven  legends  for  the  local 
newspaper  and  is  researching  his  family  tree. 

Phil  Seal  has  finished  up  his  term  as  assessor 
for  the  Town  of  Gouldsboro.  ME.  and  now  in- 
tends to  finish  off  the  second  floor  of  his  house 

Pete  Topelian  continues  with  the  quality 
control  technology  unit  at  Boeing  in  Renton. 
WA.  He  has  five  patents  and  has  applied  for  his 
sixth,  a  patent  on  a  bathroom  cleanser  that 
when  applied  gives  fog-free  mirrors  and  no- 
streak  fixtures  and  tile.  Pete  says  anyone  want- 
ing a  free  sample  may  contact  him.  (The 
Alumni  Office  has  his  address. ) 

John  Wells  reports  that  he  has  purchased  a 
little  computer.  "I  spend  a  lot  of  time  practicing 
the  art  of  programming,  mainly  just  to  find  out 
if  I  can  do  it."  He  says  he  wishes  he  had  one 
while  he  was  at  WPI. 

Carl  W.  Backstrom,  Class  Secretary 


1932 


Emanuel  Athanas  has  received  an  award  for 
comprehensive  and  objective  coverage  of  the 
congressional  hearings  on  American  military 
aid  to  Greece  and  Turkey  as  Washington  corre- 
spondent of  the  Athenian  newspaper  Mesim- 


vrini.  He  was  slated  to  spend  part  of  the  sum- 
mer on  his  native  island  of  Rhodes. 


1934 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Charlie  McElroy.  50th  reunion  committee 
chairman,  reports  that  class  reunion  headquar- 
ters will  be  at  the  Sheraton-Lincoln  Inn.  500 
Lincoln  St.,  Worcester.  Warren  Davenport. 
associate  reunion  chairman,  and  his  wife. 
Helen,  who  successfully  ran  the  hospitality 
suite  during  the  45th  reunion,  will  again  be  in 
charge  of  hospitality  for  the  50th.  Both  the  hos- 
pitality suite  and  the  class  dinner  are  slated  for 
the  Sheraton. 

Charlie  McElrov's  address  is:  P.O.  Box  455. 

Rye  Beach.  NH  03871.  (Tel.:  603-964-8596.) 

Warren  Davenport's  address  is:  53  Paine  St.. 

Worcester.  MA  01605.  (Tel.:  617-754-0293.) 

Howard  A    murium.  Class  Secreran. 


1935 


Phillip  Dean  writes  that  during  his  long  career 
with  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Company,  one 
oi  his  most  challenging  projects  was  convening 
a  double-circuit  69KV  and  a  double-circuit 
27.6KV  to  a  four-circuit  1 15KV  line  on  a  nar- 
row right  of  way  This  project,  known  as  "Op- 
eration Shoehorn."'  resulted  in  a  presentation  to 
a  meeting  of  the  Edison  Electric  Institute  and  an 
article  in  Electrical  World. 

Ted  Latour  and  his  wife.  Irene,  live  in  retire- 
ment in  Las  Vegas.  NV  where  Ted  pursues  his 
hobby,  politics,  and  has  actively  worked  for 
several  political  candidates.  He  walks  about 
five  miles  every  day.  In  1973  Ted  retired  from 
Du  Pont  following  38  years  of  service.  The 
Latours  have  six  sons  and  they  have  eleven 
grandchildren. 

Irving  Skeist,  who  worked  as  a  research 
chemist  for  Celluloid  Corp.  (now  Celanese 
Corp  )  in  Newark.  NJ.  for  more  than  ten  years, 
began  his  career  as  a  consultant  in  1955.  He 
wrote  an  article  on  plasticizers  for  Chemical 
Week  that  caused  the  head  of  a  cosmetics  com- 
pany to  decide  that  he  would  be  the  right  person 
to  do  some  needed  poly  mer  research.  With  his 
backing.  Skeist  Laboratories.  Inc.  (consultants 
to  the  polymer  industries),  was  bom.  The  labs 
conduct  marketing  research  for  300  companies 
in  20  countries.  Irving  has  been  the  author/edi- 
tor of  five  books.  His  Handbook  of  Adhesive*  is 
the  best  known  reference  work  on  that  subject. 


NOVEMBER  1983       29 


Harold  Vickery,  who  has  served  as  class 
agent,  spent  36  years  with  Norton  Company  in 
Worcester  and  is  now  retired  and  living  in 
Gloucester.  A  registered  industrial  engineer,  he 
graduated  from  WPI's  School  of  Industrial 
Management  in  1954.  Currently  he  is  vice  pres- 
ident of  a  small  company  that  builds  aluminum 
boats.  The  firm  has  built  40  so  far,  from  1 1  to 
60  feet  long.  The  Vickery s  enjoy  travel  and 
photography. 

Homer  R.  Morrison.  Class  Secretary 


1936 


Alexander  Gordon  participated  in  the  1983  In- 
ternational Congress  of  the  Society  of  Automo- 
tive Engineers  (SAE)  in  Detroit  in  March.  He 
served  as  chairman  and  as  co-organizer  of  a 
full-day  symposium  session  on  gaskets  and  pre- 
sented a  paper  on  gasket  standards. 


1937 


The  Larry  Grangers  have  moved  from  the 


Cape  to  Covenant  Village  of  Cromwell.  CT. 
Their  two-bedroom  cottage  is  part  of  a  continu- 
ing-care  retirement  community.  During  their 
years  on  the  Cape.  Larry  and  his  wife,  Natalie, 
served  more  than  1 ,000  hours  each  as  hospital 
volunteers. 


1938 


In  May,  Walter  Knapp  retired  as  vice  presi- 
dent of  engineering  from  G.F.  Wright  Steel  & 
Wire  in  Worcester.  An  SIM  graduate,  he  has 
also  served  WPI  as  a  class  agent  and  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  40th  class  reunion  committee.  Long  a 
leader  in  Phi  Gamma  Delta  activities,  he  was 
awarded  the  fraternity's  Durrance  Award  in 
1976. 


1939 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Retired  since  1981  from  the  Very  Large  Na- 
tional  Radio  Astronomy   Observatory,  John 


Lancaster  and  his  wife,  Phyllis,  have  been  en- 
joying cruises  in  their  42-ft.  ketch.  They  have 
summered  in  Maine  and  New  England  waters 
and  travelled  across  the  Bermuda  Triangle  to 
the  Virgin  Islands.  Recently  they  sailed  to 
South  America. 


1942 


In  April.  William  Dodge  won  a  one-year  term 
on  the  Board  of  Education  in  Montgomery,  NJ. 
He  is  a  chemical  engineer  with  FMC,  has  a 
master's  degree  from  the  University  of  Louis- 
ville and  is  the  father  of  two  children. 

Last  February,  Herbert  Goodman  bought 
the  W.T.  Grant  building  in  Worcester  and  is 
developing  it  as  the  Executive  Plaza,  an  office 
condominium  complex.  For  many  years  he 
headed  Herbert  Engineering,  Inc.,  which  pio- 
neered "tilt-up"  construction  (building  concrete 
panels  on  the  ground,  then  tipping  them  up  be- 
tween reinforcing  girders)  as  well  as  guaranteed 
cost-control  systems  in  the  Worcester  area. 
Now  semi-retired,  he  says  he  takes  care  of  his 
grandchildren  sometimes  and  flies  his  four-pas- 
senger airplane. 


B.  Leighton  Wellman: 
From  Books  to  Blueprints 

His  revised  1957  textbook,  Technical  De- 
scriptive Geometry,  is  still  in  print,  and  he 
still  enjoys  the  spacious  ranch  house  he 
designed  in  1958.  Professor  Emeritus  B. 
Leighton  Wellman,  35  MSME,  has  the 
knack  of  doing  a  project  right  the  first 
time. 

He  graduated  with  honors  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Illinois  in  1930.  That  same  year 
he  joined  the  WPI  mechanical  engineering 
staff  as  an  instructor.  He  was  promoted  to 
assistant  professor  and  head  of  WPI's  En- 
gineering Drawing  Division  in  1938.  As 
division  head,  he  helped  develop  and  im- 
prove courses  in  drawing,  design  and  de- 
scriptive geometry. 

Wellman 's  special  interest  in  descriptive 
geometry  prompted  him  to  write  the  first 
edition  of  Technical  Descriptive  Geometry 
in  1948.  "The  book  offered  a  new  ap- 
proach to  a  classical  subject  and  it  found 
wide  acceptance  in  engineering  colleges 
around  the  world,"  he  says.  In  1964  it  was 
translated  into  Spanish.  Nine  years  in  the 
making,  his  Introduction  to  Graphical 
Analysis  and  Design  was  published  by 
McGraw-Hill  in  1966. 

During  World  War  II,  Prof.  Wellman  di- 
rected WPI's  Engineering,  Science  and 
Management  War  Training  Program.  He 
was  secretary  of  the  faculty  from  1955  to 
1968  and  the  John  Woodman  Higgins  pro- 
fessor of  mechanical  engineering  in  1967- 
68. 

In  1963,  he  was  named  chairman  of  the 
Engineering  Graphics   Division  of  the 


The  Wellmans  at  home. 

American  Society  for  Engineering  Educa- 
tion. (The  division  later  awarded  him  a 
distinguished  service  citation.)  He  has 
been  listed  in  Who's  Who  in  Engineering. 
In  1964,  he  was  awarded  an  honorary  doc- 
torate from  WPI. 

Today,  Prof.  Wellman  and  his  wife, 
Marjorie,  are  living  in  retirement  in  Wor- 
cester. In  his  basement  shop  he  pursues  a 
lifelong  hobby,  printing.  Since  retiring  in 
1968,  the  Wellmans  have  taken  nine  tours, 
including  trips  to  Europe,  the  Orient,  Can- 


ada and  Alaska.  They  enjoy  "Christmas  in 
July"  family  reunions  with  their  son,  War- 
ren, and  daughter,  Elaine. 

This  year.  Prof.  Wellman  is  especially 
looking  forward  to  the  get-together.  "War- 
ren has  promised  to  take  me  riding  in  his 
new  hot  rod,"  he  says.  "It's  a  '64  Chevy 
convertible  with  a  fiberglass  body  he  de- 
signed and  built  himself,"  he  reports  with 
parental  pride.  Designing  and  carrying  out 
projects  appear  to  be  Wellman  family 
traits. 


30       WPI  JOURNAL 


Richard  Vaughn  has  retired  as  manager  of 
tool  engineering  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft's 
Southington,  CT,  plant  after  34  years  of  ser- 
vice. Also,  he  has  retired  as  an  LCDR  in  the 
Naval  Air  Corps.  Currently,  he  resides  in  Glas- 
tonbury, CT,  and  Mashpee,  MA. 


1944 


Reunion 


1946 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Judge  Ernest  Hayeck  of  the  Worcester  Central 
District  Court  was  elected  chairman  of  the 
American  Bar  Association  National  Conference 
of  Special  Court  Judges  during  the  1983  ABA 
annual  meeting  held  in  August  in  Atlanta. 
Judge  Hayeck  has  served  on  the  Massachusetts 
bench  since  1970,  and  is  currently  chairman  of 
the  Advisory  Committee  of  the  Jury  Manage- 
ment System  project  designed  to  bring  "one 
day-one  trial"  jury  service  to  the  entire  state. 
Under  that  system,  no  citizen  can  be  required  to 
serve  as  a  juror  for  more  than  one  day,  or  more 
than  one  trial.  Recently  he  was  elected  to  the 
board  of  trustees  of  Worcester's  Mechanics 
Hall. 

Howard  Mayo  has  been  named  engineer  of 
the  year  by  the  Lincoln  chapter  of  the  Pennsyl- 
vania Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 


1949 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Joe  Skidmore  has  retired  from  Armco.  Inc.  He 
had  open-heart  surgery  in  February. 


1954 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Richard  Meirowitz  is  now  a  senior  engineer 
with  Singer  Corp.,  Kearfott  Division,  in 
Wayne,  NJ. 

Roger  VVildt  has  been  named  director  of  the 
new  construction  marketing  division  for  Bethle- 
hem Steel's  steel  group  in  Bethlehem,  PA.  Ear- 
lier this  year  he  was  promoted  to  assistant  man- 
ager of  sales  engineering.  He  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer. 


1955 


Robert  Schultz,  professor  of  civil  engineering 
at  Oregon  State  University,  Corvallis,  has  been 
reappointed  to  the  Oregon  Board  of  Engineer- 
ing Examiners.  He  is  a  past  president  of  the 
Corvallis  Optimist  Club  and  a  member  of  the 
ASCE,  the  American  Congress  of  Surveying 
and  Mapping  and  the  Professional  Land  Sur- 
veyors of  Oregon.  Also,  he  is  a  member  of  the 
Engineering  Accreditation  Committee  of  the 
Accrediting  Board  for  Engineering  and  Tech- 
nology, which  sets  standards  for  and  evaluates 
engineering  schools  nationwide. 


Robert  Stempel,  general  manager  of 
Chevrolet,  was  profiled  in  the  May  issue  of 
Road  and  Track  magazine.  He  is  a  WPI  trustee. 


1956 


Arnold  Hall  is  president  of  Seacure,  Inc.,  ma- 
rine brokers-engineers,  in  Westerly,  RI.  An  ex- 
ecutive search  specialist.  Hall  serves  as  a  con- 
sultant and  negotiator  in  the  hiring  process 
between  employer  and  prospective  employee. 

Charlie  Healy  has  been  named  managing  di- 
rector of  Ranhill  Ebasco  in  North  Sydney,  Aus- 
tralia. 


1957 


Dr.  John  Buzzi,  president  of  Kupper  Associ- 
ates of  Piscataway,  NJ,  has  been  honored  as 
"Construction  Man  of  the  Year"  by  the  New 
Jersey  Ready-Mixed  Concrete  Association  and 
the  New  Jersey  chapter  of  the  American  Con- 
crete Institute.  (Kupper  is  one  of  the  largest 
independently-owned  civil  engineering  firms  in 
the  state.)  Buzzi  also  serves  as  president  of  the 
Water  Resources  Association  of  the  Delaware 
River  Basin  and  is  chairman  of  the  U.S.  Army 
Corps  of  Engineers  New  York  District  Public 
Involvement  Coordination  Group. 

Anthony  Matulaitis  was  recently  appointed 
manager  of  manufacturing  engineering  at 
Rathbone  Corporation  in  Palmer,  MA.  He  di- 
rects the  firm's  metallurgical  and  engineering 
program  for  cold-drawn  shaped  products  used 
in  the  computer,  business  machine,  firearms 
and  gas  turbine  industries.  He  holds  a  BS  and 
an  MS  from  WPI. 


1959 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Currently  Fred  Lutze  is  professor  of  aerospace 
engineering  at  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute 
and  State  University  in  Blacksburg.  For  the  past 
two  years  he  has  been  a  licensed  private  pilot. 


1960 


Irwin  Jacobs  has  been  named  president  of  Frey 
Associates,  Inc.  Previously  he  was  senior  vice 
president  of  Data  Terminal  Systems,  Maynard, 
MA,  and  a  17-year  employee  of  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp..  which  he  served  as  product  group 
manager  and  vice  president. 

Arthur  LoVetere,  president  of  MacDermid, 
Inc.,  has  been  named  associate  chairman  of  the 
annual  interfaith  National  Bible  Week  slated  for 
November  in  Waterbury,  CT.  A  past  chairman 
of  the  local  Chamber  of  Commerce,  he  is  direc- 
tor of  the  Colonial  Bank  and  a  former  president 
of  the  Metal  Finishing  Suppliers'  Association. 


1961 


Still  with  GE,  John  Donnelly  is  currently  on  a 


three-year  assignment  as  managing  director  of 
specialty  materials  in  Ireland.  He  is  located  in 
Dublin,  where  construction  and  start-up  of  a 
facility  to  produce  synthetic  diamonds  for  a 
worldwide  market  are  being  finalized. 

Normand  Noel  has  been  appointed  senior 
manager  of  business  development  for  Gilbane 
Building  Company's  Northeast  regional  office 
in  Providence,  RI.  He  has  more  than  20  years 
of  experience  in  the  construction  and  consulting 
business,  including  employment  with  Shell  Oil 
and  Tampa  (FL)  Electric  Co.  Currently  Noel  is 
a  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  Marine  Corps  Re- 
serve. He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut. 

Kenneth  Virkus  writes:  "Another  success- 
ful year  with  the  Alumni  Admissions  Program." 
He  has  another  year  to  go  as  a  member  of  the 
New  Jersey  Governor's  Ethnic  Advisory  Coun- 
cil. Recently  he  was  promoted  to  research  sec- 
tion manager  at  General  Cable  Co.,  Edison, 
NJ. 


1962 


Brian  O'Connell  was  promoted  to  captain  in 
the  U.S.  Navy  on  St.  Patrick's  Day,  with  cere- 
monies held  later  at  Naval  Facilities  Engineer- 
ing Command  Headquarters  (NAVFAC)  in  Al- 
exandria. VA.  Currently  he  is  the  assistant 
commander  for  family  housing  for  NAVFAC. 
During  his  career  he  has  served  in  Vietnam, 
Guam,  and  at  the  Navy's  newest  Trident  sub- 
marine base  at  Kings  Bay,  GA.  Among  his  dec- 
orations are  the  Meritorious  Unit  Commenda- 
tion, Navy  Achievement  Medal  and  Vietnam 
Service  with  Silver  Star.  He  graduated  from 
Stanford  University  with  an  MSCE  and  from 
the  Naval  War  College. 


1963 


Paul  Abajian  continues  as  associate  professor 
of  science  at  Johnson  State  College  in  Vermont. 
In  his  spare  time,  he  is  active  with  Vermont 
aviation. 

Gary  Adams  spends  his  summers  doing  re- 
search at  Mystic  (CT)  Aquarium.  He  is  an  asso- 
ciate professor  and  chairman  of  the  math  de- 
partment at  Thames  Valley  State  Technical 
College  in  Norwich. 

Currently,  Walter  Arell  serves  as  a  senior 
programmer  and  manager  of  microcode  devel- 
opment at  IBM  Corp.,  Kingston,  NY.  He  has 
been  a  member  of  the  Stratton  Mt.,  VT,  ski 
patrol  for  15  years,  and  his  daughter.  Shannon, 
1 1 ,  is  a  promising  ski  racer  at  Stratton.  Daugh- 
ter Sydney  is  6. 

Dr.  Alfred  Barrett  is  section  head  of  power 
systems  for  General  Motors  in  Goleta,  CA.  He 
enjoys  photography,  classical  music  and  car- 
pentry. 


1964 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


John  Lindquist  has  been  named  group  man- 
ager for  textile  development  by  the  B  F  Good- 
rich Tire  Group.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1964  as  a 


NOVEMBER  1983        31 


materials  engineer.  During  his  Gixxirich  career 
he  has  been  a  senior  product  engineer  for  lire 
compound  development,  a  section  leader  in  air- 
craft tire  development  and  manager  of  passen- 
ger tire  compound  development.  A  member  of 
the  Rubber  Division  of  the  American  Chemical 
Society,  Lindquist  is  also  a  life  member  of  the 
Akron  Rubber  Group. 


1965 


Phil  Ryan  was  recentl)  elected  a  director  oi 
Public  Service  Co.  o\  New  Hampshire  in  Man- 
chester. He  is  a  senior  partner  in  Bigelow  Co..  a 
management  consulting  firm. 

"Hutch"  Wvman  is  now  quality  cost  reduc- 
tion manager  for  the  Torrington  Company  He 
is  married,  has  two  children  and  is  busy  with 
church  and  Kiwanis  work. 


1966 


A  town  meeting  member  for  five  years  and  past 
president  of  Precinct  Five.  William  Collentro 
has  joined  the  finance  committee  in  Falmouth. 
MA  He  is  employed  by  Vaponics  Co..  Plym- 
outh, a  firm  that  designs  and  manufactures  wa- 
ter purification  equipment. 

Richard  Somers  II  serves  as  director  of  Dif- 
ferent Drummer.  Building  Associates,  in  Wel- 
lesley.  MA. 


1967 


MARRIED:  Peter  Shanlev  and  Ellen  Rosa  on 
Jul>  23.  1983.  in  New  Haven.  CT.  Ellen  holds 
a  BS  in  nutrition  and  food  science  from  Syra- 
cuse  University  and  interned  at  Massachusetts 
General  Hospital  in  Boston.  She  has  an  MBA 
from  Babson  College,  and  he  has  an  MBA  from 
RPI 

Currently.  Prank  Manter.  PE.  is  with  the 
Neat  Consulting  Co..  West  Acton.  MA.  The 
firm  is  concerned  with  electrical  design,  con- 
trols s>  stems  and  process  controls. 

Noel  Potter  of  General  Motors  Research 
Laboratories  was  author  of  a  technical  paper. 
"Determination  of  p-Pheny  lenediamine  Anti- 
ozonant  in  Neoprene  Rubber."  which  was  pre- 
sented at  the  123rd  Rubber  Division  meeting  of 
the  American  Chemical  Societv  in  Toronto. 
Canada,  in  June. 

William  Tanzer,  a  production  superv  isor  at 
Eastman  Gelatin  in  Peabody.  MA.  has  been 
named  to  the  Board  of  Health  in  Hamilton. 
MA 


1968 


Piyush  Amin,  PE.  has  been  promoted  to  engi- 
neering manager  of  the  structures  section  at  Mi- 
chael Baker  Corporation.  Beaver.  PA.  Cur- 
rentlv he  is  project  manager  for  the  design  of 
two  bridges  in  West  Virginia.  He  holds  three 
masters  degrees,  including  a  recent  MBA  from 
Penn  State. 

In  April.  Bob  Demers  was  appointed  chief 
respiratory    therapist    at    Stanford    L'niversitv 


Hospital  in  California.  He  is  a  clinical  resource 
person  to  a  department  of  90.  Prev  iousIv  .  he 
was  intensive  care  specialist  at  the  UMass  Med- 
ical Center  in  Worcester 

Bob  Ellis  is  a  trucker  for  the  Veltman  Termi- 
nal Co.  in  Los  Angeles. 

In  May,  Eugene  Murphy  was  named  prod- 
uct marketing  manager  at  Power  General 
Corp..  Canton.  MA. 


1969 


Reunion 


October  1,  1984 


Michael  Delleo,  Jr..  an  assistant  professor  at 
the  U.S.  Military  Academy,  West  Point.  NY, 
was  recent  I  v  promoted  to  the  rank  of  lieutenant 
colonel  in  the  U.S.  Army. 

Last  spring  "Rick"  Follett  and  his  family 
moved  from  Massachusetts  to  California, 
where  Rick  continues  as  a  senior  field  applica- 
tions engineer  with  Advanced  Micro  Devices 
(AMD)  near  the  "Silicon  Valley"  He  has  been 
w  ith  AMD  for  four  y ears. 

Air  Products  and  Chemicals  oi  Allentown. 
PA.  has  appointed  Arthur  Katsaros  director  of 
business  development  for  the  company  s  Chem- 
icals Group.  He  will  oversee  group  market  re- 
search, economic  evaluation  and  strategic  plan- 
ning. With  the  firm  since  1973.  Katsaros  was 
previously  business  manager  of  nitration  prod- 
ucts. He  has  an  MBA  from  Lehigh. 

Edward  Mierzejewski  is  now  manager  of 
transportation  serv  ices  for  the  consulting  engi- 
neering firm  of  Post.  Buckley.  Schuh  &  Jerni- 
gan.  Inc..  Tallahassee.  FL.  He  has  an  MSCE 
from  MIT. 

Mahendra  Patel  has  been  elected  president 
of  the  Engineering  Societies  of  New  England. 
Inc.  He  is  a  senior  mechanical  engineer  in  the 
engineering,  planning  and  research  department 
of  Boston  Edison  Company  and  is  a  mechanical 
group  leader  in  the  firm's  mechanical  and  struc- 
tural design  division.  A  member  of  the  ASME. 
he  now  heads  the  Boston  chapter's  honors  and 
awards  committee  for  the  New  England  region. 

B.  Lee  Tuttle.  an  assistant  professor  of  pro- 
cess engineering  at  GMI  Engineering  and  Man- 
agement Institute  in  Flint.  MI.  recently  re- 
ceived the  Ralph  R.  Teetor  Award  from  the 
Society  of  Automotive  Engineers  and  the  Dow 
Award  from  the  American  Society  for  Engi- 
neering Education.  The  Teetor  Award  cites  ex- 
cellence in  undergraduate  teaching  in  automo- 
tive-related fields,  while  the  Dow  Award 
recognizes  enthusiasm  in  engineering  instruc- 
tion. 


1970 


MARRIED:  Dr  Lothar  Kleiner  to  Donna 
Hiznay  on  July  2.  1983.  in  Plamesville.  OH. 
She  has  a  degree  in  chemistry  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Notre  Dame.  Euclid.  OH.  A  senior  re- 
search engineer  with  Raychem.  Menlo  Park. 
CA.  he  has  an  MS  from  the  University  of  Dela- 
ware and  a  PhD  from  the  Polymer  Science  In- 
stitute at  L'Mass. 

David  Emery,  a  former  U.S.  representative 
from  Maine,  has  been  confirmed  by  the  U.S. 
Senate  as  deputy  director  of  the  Arms  Control 
and  Disarmament  Agency  in  Washington.  DC. 


He  prev  iousIv  had  served  as  a  consultant  for  the 
agency . 

Dr.  James  Hannoosh  was  recently  named 
director  oi  new  business  development  for  ad- 
vanced ceramic  components  in  Norton  Compa- 
ny's high  performance  ceramics  business  unit. 
He  has  a  master's  degree  and  doctorate  from 
MIT 

John  Keenan  has  been  promoted  to  opera- 
tions supervisor  at  Unit  2  of  Northeast  Utili- 
ties's  (NU)  Millstone  Nuclear  Power  Station  in 
Connecticut.  He  joined  the  Connecticut  Light 
and  Power  Company,  an  NU  subsidiary,  in 
1970  in  Waterbury.  He  was  advanced  to  engi- 
neer at  Millstone  2  in  1975.  In  1979.  he  was 
named  senior  engineer  and  in  1981.  mainte- 
nance superv  isor. 

James  Troupes,  chief  project  coordinator  of 
Allen  &  Dcmurjian.  Inc..  Boston,  has  been 
named  a  v  ice  president  and  director  of  the  con- 
sulting firm.  Recently  he  received  his  registra- 
tion as  a  land  surveyor  from  the  Massachusetts 
Board  of  Registration  of  Professional  Engineers 
and  Land  Surveyors.  He  has  been  responsible 
for  many  multi-screen  cinema  complexes  from 
Maine  to  California,  as  well  as  real  estate  ac- 
quisition projects  for  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers.  Prior  to  joining  Allen  &  Dcmurjian 
in  1977.  Troupes  served  as  chief  of  survey  with 
Moore  Survey  &  Mapping  Corp..  Shrewsbury. 
MA.  and  as  technical  consultant  to  the  Town  of 
Milford. 


1971 


MARRIED:  Robert  Dugger,  Jr.,  and  Janice 
Ramondetta  in  Newington.  CT.  on  June  18. 
1983.  Janice  received  two  degrees  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut  and  is  with  St.  Fran- 
cis Hospital  and  Medical  Center.  Robert,  who 
holds  a  master's  degree  from  the  University  of 
Hartford,  works  for  Barclays  American  Busi- 
ness Credit  in  East  Hartford. 

BORN:  to  Patricia  and  Bob  Trachimowicz  a 
third  son.  Nathan  Patrick,  on  March  26.  1983. 
Timothy  is  6  and  Matthew.  4.  Bob  is  resident 
engineer  with  Ebasco  Services.  Inc..  in  Hous- 
ton. TX. 

Arthur  Jackman,  head  of  the  math  depart- 
ment at  the  Keefe  School  in  Framingham.  MA. 
was  recently  named  "Teacher  of  the  Year"  for 
the  secondary -school  level  by  the  State  Depart- 
ment of  Education.  Currently  he  is  setting  up  a 
microcomputer  lab  at  Keefe  and  teaching  com- 
puter science  part  time  at  Dean  Junior  College. 
He  has  a  master's  degree  in  math  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Lowell. 

John  Meschisen  has  been  appointed  director 
of  purchasing  and  materials  control  at  EUA 
Service  Corp..  Lincoln.  RI.  Previously  he  was 
manager  of  division  engineering.  He  belongs  to 
the  IEEE  and  serves  as  chairman  of  the  under- 
ground systems  subcommittee  of  the  Electric 
Council  of  New  England. 

Kevin  O'Connell  recently  left  Arkwnght- 
Boston  Insurance  and  is  now  director  of  loss 
prevention  for  W.R.  Grace  &  Co.  in  Manhat- 
tan. 

Bill  Philbrook  is  currently  with  Scott  Sys- 
tems. Inc..  Marlboro.  MA. 

U.S.  Army  Maj.  Richard  San  Antonio  has 
completed  his  fellowship  in  cardiology  at 
Brooke  Army  Medical  Center  in  Texas.  With 
the  Army    for  seven  years.   Richard  has  now 


32       Vi'PI  JOURNAL 


been  assigned  to  the  Walter  Reed  Army  Medi- 
cal Center.  Washington.  DC.  He  holds  an  MS 
from  MIT  and  a  medical  degree  from  Washing- 
ton University.  His  wife.  Maj.  Pamela  San  An- 
tonio, is  a  pediatrician. 

Since  May.  Ron  Zarrella  has  been  serving  as 
managing  director  of  Playtex  (Pty. )  Ltd.  in 
Australia.  He  resides  in  Mosman. 


1972 


Sam  Cuscovitch  recently  left  CIGNA  Corp.  to 
form  Sage  Telecommunications.  Inc..  a  Con- 
necticut-based firm  providing  professional  ser- 
vices and  software  products  for  telecommunica- 
tion vendors  and  users.  He  lives  in  Coventry. 
CT. 

Patrick  Lafayette  has  been  named  water 
pollution  control  director  in  Stonington.  CT. 
and  will  direct  a  local  S3-million  sewer  expan- 
sion project.  Formerly,  he  was  city  engineer  in 
Norwich.  He  holds  a  master's  in  wastewater 
treatment  from  the  University  of  Maine. 

Mark  Samek,  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer, has  been  promoted  to  senior  engineer  at 
Northeast  Utilities.  Hartford.  CT.  After  joining 
the  firm  in  1978.  he  was  advanced  to  associate 
engineer  in  1979  and  to  engineer  in  1980.  He 
has  a  MS  in  nuclear  engineering  from  MIT. 

Dr.  August  Sapega,  professor  of  engineering 
at  Trinity  College.  Hartford.  CT.  has  been 
named  to  the  college's  Hallden  professorship. 
With  the  faculty  since  1951.  he  has  been  coor- 
dinator of  computing  activities  since  1977  and 
was  chairman  of  the  engineering  department 
from  1970  to  1981.  He  holds  BS"  and  MS  de- 
grees from  Columbia  and  a  doctorate  in  electri- 
cal engineering  from  WPI.  His  major  fields  of 
research  are  solid  state  electronics  and  the  ap- 
plications of  mini-  and  micro-computers  to  en- 
gineering problems.  He  is  the  author  of  publica- 
tions in  both  of  these  areas.  From  1979  to  1983 
he  was  chairman  of  the  New  England  Regional 
Computing  Program. 


1973 


BORN:  to  Kristine  and  William  Nutter  a  son. 
William  Douglas,  on  May  10.  1983.  Kristine 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin 
and  has  a  master's  degree  from  Florida  Institute 
of  Technology.  Both  Nutters  are  employed  by 
Rockwell  International. 

After  a  six-month  stay  in  Zurich.  Switzer- 
land. Ron  Bohlin  was  slated  to  return  to 
Northboro.  MA.  in  August. 

William  Cormier,  Jr.,  has  been  named  as 
supervisor  for  zeolite  and  fluid  cracking  cata- 
lyst preparation  by  Katalistiks.  Inc..  Baltimore. 
MD.  Previously  he  spent  nine  years  with  Mobil 
Research  and  Development  Corp..  Paulsboro. 
NJ.  where  he  was  a  senior  research  engineer. 
He  has  coauthored  four  patents  on  zeolite  syn- 
thesis and  fluid  cracking  catalysts  and  is  named 
on  four  other  pending  patents. 

Paul  Parulis  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities's  Millstone  Nu- 
clear Power  Station.  A  registered  professional 
engineer,  he  had  been  a  commissioner  for  the 
town  of  Waterford's  Water  Pollution  Control 
Authority. 

Lt   Robert  Steinberg,  USN.  was  awarded  a 


L  to  R:  Paid  Glazier,  Headen  Tfwtnpson,  Carl  Benson,  and  Roger  Iffland 


WPI  Grads  Follow 
Good  Neighbor  Policy 

It  may  be  officially  listed  as  "East  Hill 
Rd."  in  the  Torrington  (CT)  street  direc- 
tory, but  "Alumni  Hill"  would  not  be  a 
misnomer.  Since  the  1940s,  four  WPI 
alumni  have  been  East  Hill  neighbors. 

"Not  only  that."  says  Carl  Benson.  '36 
ME.  "we  all  spent  our  entire  careers  with 
the  Torrington  Co.  and  are  all  now  re- 
tired." Still  carrying  on  their  long-standing 
good  neighbor  policy  with  Benson  are 
Paul  Glazier.  '37  ME.  Headen  Thompson. 
"36  EE,  and  Roger  Iffland.  '39  ME.  An- 
other Torrington  friend.  Harry  Haag.  is 
also  one  of  the  original  "settlers." 

"After  World  War  II.  when  building 
materials  again  became  available,  we  got 
together  and  decided  to  buy  land  and 
build."  Benson  continues.  "Roger  knew  of 
some  farmland  on  the  east  side  of  town 
where  he  had  helped  cut  hay  as  a  boy.  We 
had  the  property  surveyed  and  laid  out  in 
seven  one-acre  lots." 

Today,  the  neighbors  continue  to  enjoy 
each  other's  company  and  working  on  per- 
sonal projects.   Iffland  helps  out  friends 


and  family  with  wiring  and  building  prob- 
lems and  likes  playing  cards.  He  also  gar- 
dens and  takes  long  walks.  In  1980  he  re- 
tired as  chief  of  mechanical  engineering 
after  40  years  with  the  company.  He  and 
his  wife.  Lucy,  have  five  children,  ten 
grandchildren  and  two  step-grandchildren. 

Paul  Glazier  and  his  wife.  Marjorie. 
who  have  two  children  and  one  grand- 
child, collect  antiques  and  do  some  selling 
at  shows.  They  belong  to  the  Pewter  Col- 
lectors Club  of  America  and  attend  club 
meetings  at  various  locations  where  col- 
lections are  on  exhibit. 

Thompson,  a  retired  chief  plant  engi- 
neer, belongs  to  SCORE  (Service  Corps  of 
Retired  Executives)  and  is  past  president 
of  the  local  Rotary  Club.  He  enjoys  ama- 
teur radio,  travel  and  photography.  The 
Thompsons  have  a  daughter  and  a  grand- 
son. 

Carl  Benson  retired  as  director  of  re- 
search at  Torrington.  His  hobbies  include 
woodworking,  making  violins  and  golf. 
Soon  he  and  Doris,  who  have  two  daugh- 
ters and  three  grandchildren,  expect  to 
move  into  a  remodeled  cottage  in  Charles- 
town.  RI.  They  will  be  the  first  original 
residents  to  move  from  East  Hill  Rd. 


master's  in  naval  architecture  and  marine  engi- 
neering and  a  professional  degree  of  ocean  en- 
gineer from  MIT  in  May.  He  has  served  with 
the  Navy  for  1 1  years,  and  is  slated  to  be  sta- 
tioned in  Boston. 


1974 


Reunion 


October  1,  1984 


MARRIED:  Edward  Arsnow  and  Barbara 
Griffin  in  Melrose.  MA.  recently.  Barbara 
graduated  from  Bates  College  and  Boston  Uni- 
versity. Both  Arsnows  are  product  planners  at 
Western  Electric.  Edward  is  also  studying  for 


his  MBA  at  Northeastern.  .  Stephen 
Powlishen  and  Lon  Cowan  on  May  28.  1983. 
in  Wallingford.  CT.  Lori  graduated  from  South- 
ern Connecticut  State  College  and  works  for 
Hewlett  Packard,  where  Stephen  is  also  em- 
ployed. . .  .Warren  Spence  and  Emily  Short  on 
January  31.  1983.  ..  Anthony  Tomasiello, 
Jr.,  and  Janet  Amorello  on  June  25.  1983.  in 
Worcester.  Janet  is  a  self-employed  graphic  de- 
signer. Tomasiello.  who  graduated  from  Suf- 
folk Law  School,  is  an  attorney  with  the  law 
firm  of  Healy  &  Rocheleau.'  PC  Peter 
Walworth  to  Elizabeth  Cardin  in  Attleboro. 
MA.  on  May  29.  1983.  A  sales  administrator 
for  Apollo  Computer.  Inc..  in  Chelmsford,  she 
graduated  from  Lasell  Junior  College.  Peter  is 
employed  by  Applicon  in  Burlington. 


NOVEMBER  1983 


33 


In  May,  Robert  Barry  received  his  MSEE 
from  UVM  in  Burlington,  after  attending  the 
university  full  time  through  IBM's  LSI  Institute 
Program.  He  is  a  staff  engineer  for  IBM  in 
Hopewell  Junction,  NY,  where  he  works  in  in- 
tegrated circuit  design. 

Bruce  Beaupre  has  joined  the  sales  staff  of 
Howard  Katz  Real  Estate  Associates  in  Worces- 
ter. He  is  a  candidate  for  a  master's  degree  at 
WPI. 

Capt.  Christopher  Cigal  has  returned  from 
Germany  and  now  lives  in  Forest  Hill,  MD. 

Actor-magician  Steve  Dacri  has  opened  the 
Steve  Dacri  School  of  Magic  in  North  Holly- 
wood. CA. 

Mathew  DiPilato  was  recently  promoted  to 
manager  of  the  Manchester  (NH)  office  of 
Goldberg-Zoino  &  Associates,  Inc.,  a  geotech- 
nical  consulting  firm. 

Jim  True  holds  the  post  of  programmer-ana- 
lyst at  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua,  NH.  He 
is  serving  his  second  term  as  treasurer  of  the 
Nashua  Theater  Guild. 

Andrew  Wemple  has  been  promoted  to  asso- 
ciate actuary  within  the  group  actuarial  organi- 
zation at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  Promoted 
to  assistant  actuary  in  1980.  in  1979  he  was 
named  a  fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries. 

Mark  Whitney,  who  has  a  professional  engi- 
neer's (PE)  license  in  Connecticut,  recently  re- 
ceived his  PE  license  in  Massachusetts. 

Ed  Wiles  is  now  chief  engineer  and  assistant 
sales  manager  for  Concrete  Structures,  Inc.,  a 
pre-cast,  pre-stressed  concrete  manufacturer 
headquartered  in  Richmond,  VA.  Last  spring 
he  received  his  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Richmond.  Married,  Ed  is  the  father  of  Chris- 
tina, 2. 

Jim  Rubino,  Class  Secretary 


1975 


MARRIED:  Dr.  Torbjoern  ("Toby")  Ny- 
gaard  and  Dr.  Lisa  Mellman  in  Denver,  CO, 
last  October.  Dr.  Mellman,  who  retains  her 
maiden  name,  is  a  resident  in  psychiatry  at  Co- 
lumbia Presbyterian  Hospital  in  New  York 
City.  Toby  recently  completed  his  residency  in 
internal  medicine  and  has  now  begun  a  resi- 
dency in  neurology  at  the  College  of  Medicine 
and  Dentistry  of  New  Jersey  in  Newark. 

BORN:  to  Melody  and  Chris  Danker  their 
second  son,  Jared  Fitzgerald,  on  April  26, 
1983.  Chris  is  a  senior  manufacturing  engineer 
for  Electronized  Chemicals  Co.,  Burlington, 
MA.  Currently,  he  is  in  charge  of  all  processes 
at  the  firm's  new  Wilmington  facility. . .  .to 
Joanna  and  Martin  Fugardi  their  first  child, 
Daniel  Martin,  last  Memorial  Day.  For  the  past 
year  Martin  has  been  project  engineer  and  chief 
inspector  on  a  $150-million  project  for  the  gov- 
ernment of  Qatar.  After  traveling  to  Cyprus  and 
Paris,  the  Fugardis  planned  to  return  to  the 
U.S.  in  time  for  Homecoming. . .  .to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Richard  Mariano  their  first  child,  Diane 
Elizabeth,  on  September  27,  1982.  Mariano  is 
an  operational  planner  for  the  Personal  Care 
Division  at  Gillette. . .  .to  Soheila  and  Kazem 
Sohraby  a  daughter,  Mariam,  on  April  10, 
1983.  Currently,  Dr.  Sohraby  is  manager  of  the 
communications  network,  planning  depart- 
ment, at  Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  systems  di- 
vision. 

Art  Aikin,  who  has  served  as  a  WPI  class 


agent,  is  a  materials  engineer  at  the  Naval  Air 
Engineering  Center  (NAEC)  in  Lakehurst,  NJ. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  Sea  'N  AirToastmasters' 
Club  for  NAEC  Lakehurst,  and  is  active  in  the 
Toastmasters  Youth  Leadership  programs.  Cur- 
rently he  is  studying  for  his  MS  in  engineering 
management  at  Widener  University,  Chester, 
PA. 

Bob  Ankstitus,  a  project  manager  with  the 
EPA,  is  concerned  with  emergency  cleanup  ac- 
tivities for  oil  spills,  hazardous  materials  spills 
and  hazardous  waste  site  cleanups  in  New  En- 
gland. He  andhis  wife  Patti  have  three  sons. 
Hobbies  include  sport-fishing  and  camping. 

Rob  Apkarian  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
electron  microscopist  at  the  University  of  Lou- 
isville in  Kentucky,  where  he  built  an  EM  lab 
modelled  on  those  he  had  worked  in  previously 
at  the  Yale  University  School  of  Medicine. 
Since  graduation  from  WPI,  he  has  served  as  an 
electron  microscope  technician  for  Dr.  Danielli 
in  WPI's  Life  Sciences  Department  and  for 
Yale  Nobelist  Dr.  George  Palade.  After  study- 
ing at  the  University  of  Illinois  Medical  Center 
in  Chicago,  he  transferred  to  Clark  and  com- 
pleted his  MS  in  biology.  He  has  presented  10 
articles  at  international  EM  conferences  and 
soon  plans  to  host  his  first  EM  conference  on 
high-resolution  scanning  electron  microscopy. 

Bob  ("Snake")  Bradley  continues  with 
DEC  in  Marlboro,  MA,  where  he  is  product 
manager  for  communications  hardware  and 
software  products  for  one  of  DEC's  personal 
computers.  He  has  travelled  to  Europe  and  Asia 
on  business,  as  well  as  to  the  "Silicon  Valley" 


in  California,  "where  the  micro  industry 
thrives."  He  is  currently  completing  his  MS  the- 
sis in  computer  science  at  WPI. 

After  a  five-year  absence,  Bill  Cunningham 
has  returned  to  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester, 
where  he  is  a  staff  I&C  engineer.  Bill  is  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Webster  Public  Safety  Committee 
and  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary. 

Nicholas  Kyriakos  is  with  the  Societe  Na- 
tional Elf  Aquitaine  (production),  the  French 
nationalized  petrochemical  company  in  Pau.  As 
project  engineer,  he  is  responsible  for  the  off- 
shore and  onshore  oil  and  gas  projects.  Earlier 
he  worked  on  projects  in  South  America  and 
Africa. 

In  June,  Dr.  Joe  LeBritton  joined  Burr- 
Brown  Research  Corp.,  Tuscon,  AZ,  where  he 
is  a  software  engineer.  For  the  past  two  years, 
he  was  a  high-energy  physicist  for  the  Univer- 
sity of  Arizona,  Tucson,  conducting  experi- 
ments at  the  National  Accelerator  Laboratory  in 
Batavia,  IL. 

On  Valentine's  Day  the  Richard  Nortons  re- 
ceived a  hoped-for  valentine,  their  adopted 
daughter,  Samantha  Julie.  They  are  active  in 
the  local  chapter  of  the  Open  Door  Society,  an 
adoptive  parents  support  group.  Richard  is  a 
project  manager  at  Gale  Engineering  Company, 
Inc.,  Braintree,  MA. 

Beth  Pennington  is  living  in  Greenwood, 
SC,  where  she  is  doing  independent  consulting 
on  computer  system  installations  and  use.  Be- 
sides attending  the  executive  MBA  program  at 
Emory  University  in  Atlanta,  GA,  she  also 
serves  as  chairman  of  the  computer  science  ad- 


Behn  Writes  Guide 
To  Decision  Making 

"Analytical  thinking  is  the  key  to  making 
intelligent  choices,"  says  Robert  Behn, 
'63,  coauthor  of  Quick  Analysis  for  Busy 
Decision  Makers,  published  recently  by 
Basic  Books,  Inc.  "Anybody  can  make 
better  decisions,  even  when  time  and  in- 
formation are  limited,"  Behn  continues, 
"and  by  using  the  quick  analysis  system, 
the  decision-maker  can  help  stack  a  few 
more  odds  in  his  favor." 

The  new  director  of  Duke  University's 
Institute  of  Policy  Science  and  Public  Af- 
fairs, Behn  wrote  the  415-page  Quick 
Analysis  with  Duke  colleague  James 
Vaupel.  The  book  illustrates  the  power  of 
quick  analysis  in  a  variety  of  decisions- 
such  as: 

1.  Should  an  angina  patient  risk  open- 
heart  surgery? 

2.  Should  a  business  executive  intro- 
duce a  new  product? 

3.  Should  the  President  launch  a  nation- 
wide flu  vaccination  program? 

4.  Should  a  corporation  stop  construc- 
tion of  a  new  plant  in  a  war-torn  country? 

5.  Should  the  plaintiff  in  a  civil  suit  ac- 
cept an  out-of-court  settlement? 

In  such  situations,  Behn  says  different 
people  will  make  different  but  equally  in- 
telligent choices  in  accordance  with  their 


Decision-maker  at  work. 

individual  beliefs  and  preferences.  "The 
trick,"  he  explains,  "is  to  use  a  simple 
'decision  tree,'"  resembling  on  paper  the 
familiar  family  tree  diagram.  "A  decision 
tree  helps  you  concentrate  your  analytical 
energies  on  the  key  components  of  your 
dilemma,"  he  continues. 

Most  books  like  Behn's  require  the 
reader  to  have  an  advanced  degree  in  ap- 
plied mathematics  before  opening  the 
cover,  but  with  the  aid  of  Quick  Analysis 
you  can  do  a  lot  of  the  calculations  on  the 
back  of  an  envelope,  he  reports.  "At  the 
most,  you  need  only  a  pocket  calculator." 

The  book's  simplified  approach  to  deci- 
sion making  is  getting  considerable  atten- 
tion at  the  university  level,  the  Duke  re- 
searcher says,  but  its  concepts  are  useful  in 
business  and  private  life  as  well. 


34       WPI  JOURNAL 


visory  board  at  the  local  community  college,  as 
a  board  member  of  the  new  Women's  Center 
and  as  a  member  of  the  United  Way  budget 
committee. 

Penn  Pixley  continues  as  plant  engineer  for 
Celotex  Corporation  in  Quincy,  IL.  He  has  his 
own  TRS-80  Model  III  computer  and  serves  as 
an  officer  with  the  Great  River  Microcomputer 
Users  Group  of  Quincy.  The  Pixleys'  first 
child,  Brian,  was  born  last  December. 

Steve  Sweeney  is  the  supervisory  industrial 
engineer  at  the  naval  plant  representative  office 
for  GE's  Ordnance  Systems  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 
He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Hart- 
ford and  attends  the  Union  College  Extension 
program  in  Pittsfield,  working  for  his  master's 
in  computer  science. 

Todd  Whitaker  is  now  working  on  one  of 
the  Navy's  first  projects  in  fiber  optics  at  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New  Lon- 
don, CT.  Previously,  his  job  has  taken  him  to 
NATO-related  work  in  France  and  England. 
Besides  pursuing  his  MSME  at  UConn,  he  is 
looking  forward  to  building  a  post  and  beam, 
passive  solar  Cape  Cod  home. 

Mark  Youngstrom,  PE,  is  a  project  engi- 
neer at  Wright  Engineering  Ltd.,  Rutland.  VT 
Currently  he  is  concerned  with  municipal  water 
supply,  wastewater  treatment  and  hydroelectric 
projects.  Active  with  the  Rotary,  he  also  serves 
on  the  board  of  trustees  of  the  Vermont  Institute 
of  Natural  Science  and  is  president  of  the  Rut- 
land County  Audubon  Society. 

Patricia  Graham  Flahertv,  Class  President 


1976 


MARRIED:  William  Maclndoe  and  Gail 
Matteson  on  April  30,  1983,  in  Coventry.  RI. 
She  graduated  from  Community  College  of 
Rhode  Island  and  URI  and  is  employed  at  Kent 
County  Hospital.  He  works  for  Federal  Prod- 
ucts...  Robert  Roy  IV  and  Diana  Slater  in 
Edgartown,  MA,  on  June  19,  1983.  Diana,  a 
member  of  the  faculty  at  Meadowbrook  School 
in  Weston,  graduated  from  Wellesley  and  re- 
ceived her  MA  from  Lesley  College.  Robert 
is  a  systems  engineer  at  GTE/Sylvania  in 
Needham,  MA. 

Bill  Clark  is  now  a  senior  manufacturing  en- 
gineer with  NEC  Information  Systems,  Inc.,  in 
Woburn,  MA,  a  wholly-owned  subsidiary  of 
NEC  Corp.  of  Japan.  The  Woburn  division 
manufactures  the  APC  personal  computer, 
small  business  systems  and  peripherals  such  as 
printers  and  disk  drives.  In  November  the  com- 
pany is  slated  to  move  to  Boxboro.  MA. 

Kenneth  Duda  was  recently  awarded  the 
Doctor  of  Optometry  (OD)  degree  from  the 
New  England  College  of  Optometry  in  Boston. 

Peter  Hallock  is  a  senior  programmer-ana- 
lyst for  the  customer  service  management  infor- 
mations systems  group  at  Prime  Computer  in 
Natick,  MA. 

Mark  Johnson  has  been  promoted  to  the 
newly  created  post  of  director  of  engineering 
for  Bridgeport  (CT)  Hydraulic  Co.  (BHC).  He 
is  responsible  for  managing  BHC's  engineering 
and  planning  programs.  A  registered  profes- 
sional engineer,  he  has  a  master's  in  environ- 
mental engineering  from  the  University  of 
Maine. 

Barry  Siff,  director  of  industrial  relations  for 
Colonial  Provision  Company  in  Boston,  is  an 


active  member  of  the  Industrial  Relations  Re- 
search Association.  This  fall  he  is  studying  in 
the  evening  division  at  Suffolk  University  Law 
School.  Barry,  his  wife,  Judy,  and  four-year- 
old  son,  Brian,  all  enjoy  running. 

Yinmin  Yang  has  completed  all  of  the  re- 
quirements for  his  PhD  at  Carnegie-Mellon 
University  in  Pittsburgh.  His  dissertation  dealt 
with  "Thermal  and  Elastohydrodynamic  Anal- 
ysis of  Reciprocating  Rod  Seals  in  the  Stirling 
Engine."  He  has  an  MS  from  WPI. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Robert  Horton  and  JoAnn 
Rinaldi  recently  in  Mechanicville,  NY.  A  regis- 
tered nurse  and  graduate  of  the  Samaritan  Hos- 
pital School  of  Nursing,  Troy,  JoAnn  is  with 
the  pediatric  department  at  Samaritan  Hospital. 
Robert  is  a  production  engineer  for  the  GE  Sili- 
cone Products  Division  in  Waterford.  . . . 
James  Lunney  to  Norma  Green  in  Scotland  on 
April  9,  1983.  She  was  educated  in  Glasgow. 
Lunney  has  been  a  technical  representative  for 
GE  at  the  Navy  Submarine  Base  in  Holylock, 
Scotland,  for  the  past  three  years.  . .  .  Chris- 
topher Owen  and  Dr.  Mary  Helen  Wesolowski 
in  Hopedale,  MA.  A  research  associate  at  the 
Worcester  Foundation  for  Experimental  Biol- 
ogy, she  received  her  BA  from  Regis  Col- 
lege and  her  PhD  from  Clark.  Owen  did  grad- 
uate work  at  Clark  and  is  currently  a  research 
assistant  at  Massachusetts  General  Hos- 
pital. . .  George  Whitwell  and  Mary  Barta  on 
June  11,  1983.  Mary  has  a  DVM  from  Cornell. 
George  received  his  PhD  in  chemistry  from 
Cornell  last  year.  He  is  an  associate  research 
chemist  for  Stauffer  Chemicals  Co. 

BORN:  to  Brian  and  Kristina  Perry  Buck- 
ley a  daughter,  Sarah  Tait,  on  July  1 1,  1983. 
Brian  is  a  nuclear  engineer  at  Portsmouth  Naval 
Shipyard  in  Kittery,  ME.  The  baby's  maternal 
grandfather  is  Roger  Perry,  Jr.,  '45,  director 
of  public  relations  at  WPI. . .  .to  Tania  and 
J.  Clayton  Ney,  Jr.,  a  daughter,  Emily  Mary, 
on  December  26,  1982.  Ney  is  vice  president  of 
Expanded  Rubber  Products,  Sanford,  ME. 

Currently,  Gary  Babin  serves  as  an  electrical 
design  engineer  in  the  office  of  facilities  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut  in  Storrs.  Previously, 
he  worked  for  five  years  for  United  Illuminat- 
ing Co.  of  New  Haven  as  an  associate  electrical 
engineer.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University 
of  New  Haven  and  is  registered  as  a  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Connecticut. 

Gary  Bujaucius  was  awarded  associateship 
designation  in  the  Casualty  Actuarial  Society  at 
the  Society's  May  meeting  in  Miami,  FL.  He  is 
an  actuarial  associate  with  Hanover  Insurance 
Company  of  Worcester. 

Bill  Cunningham  has  joined  Data  General  in 
Cincinnati. 

Dan  Hoch  is  a  regional  sales  representative 
for  IBM's  National  Marketing  Division  in  Wal- 
tham,  MA. 

Richard  Wheeler,  who  decided  late  in  April 
to  run  a  write-in  campaign  for  a  school  commit- 
tee post  in  North  Brookfield,  MA,  was  elected 
to  the  post  May  2,  winning  by  200  votes.  Re- 
cently he  was  named  product  sales  manager  for 
Custom  Coating  &  Laminating  of  Worcester. 
He  is  studying  for  his  MBA  at  Assumption  Col- 
lege. The  Wheelers  have  a  two-year-old  son. 

Joseph  Williams  has  been  promoted  to  prod- 


uct engineer  in  the  Abrasives  Marketing  Group 
at  Norton  Company,  Worcester.  He  will  pro- 
vide technical  leadership  and  support  for  major 
market  programs  and  determine  market  and 
product  needs. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Bruce  Biederman  and  Kathleen 
Miazga  in  Meriden,  CT,  on  June  4,  1983. 
Kathleen  graduated  from  Mount  Holyoke  Col- 
lege and  the  University  of  Michigan  Graduate 
School  of  Public  Health.  She  is  with  the  Ameri- 
can Heart  Association  in  Meriden.  Bruce  works 
for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  East  Hart- 
ford. . .  Alex  Boutsioulis  and  Marianne  Man- 
fredi  on  June  26,  1983,  in  Waterbury,  CT.  A 
department  manager  for  Caldor  in  Hamden, 
Marianne  graduated  from  Centenary  College 
for  Women  and  Southern  Connecticut  State 
University.  Alex  has  an  MBA  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  New  Haven.  He  is  an  operations  engi- 
neer for  United  Illuminating  Co. .  . .  Earl  Potter 
II  to  Gina  Lyman  in  Ludlow,  MA.  A  fiscal 
assistant  with  the  Head  Start  program,  she  grad- 
uated from  Springfield  Technical  Community 
College.  Earl,  an  order  processor  with  Dielec- 
trics, Inc.,  is  attending  the  evening  program  at 
Western  New  England  College. 

Jerry  Bujaucius  is  active  in  CAD/CAM  at 
UNC  Naval  Products,  Uncasville,  CT.  He  is  a 
professor  of  manufacturing  engineering  tech- 
nology at  Hartford  State  Technical  College. 

Ronald  Fish  recently  became  a  senior  mem- 
ber of  the  technical  staff  at  Teledyne  Systems 
Company  in  Northridge,  CA. 

In  May,  Dr.  Christo  Koulisis  graduated  from 
Albany  (NY)  Medical  College.  Currently  he  is 
an  intern  at  the  Texas  University  Medical 
Branch  in  Galveston,  where  he  plans  to  com- 
plete his  residency  in  orthopedic  surgery. 

Before  leaving  Colt  Firearms,  Hartford,  CT, 
Richard  Skowronski,  as  project  engineer,  was 
assigned  to  programs  including  the  improve- 
ment of  the  M16  rifle.  The  improvement  pro- 
gram led  to  U.S.  military  type  classification  of 
the  rifle  as  the  "M16A2"  and  an  $18-million 
initial  contract  from  the  USMC.  Rich  is  now 
employed  as  project  engineer  by  Cybex  Divi- 
sion of  Lumex,  Inc.,  Ronkonkoma,  NY.  Cybex 
designs  and  produces  isokenetic  test  and  reha- 
bilitation equipment.  Rich  has  also  completed 
the  MBA  program  at  the  University  of  New 
Haven,  West  Haven,  CT,  and  has  received  a 
professional  engineering  license  from  the  State 
of  Connecticut. 

Brian  Timura  has  received  his  MD  from 
Tufts  University  School  of  Medicine.  He  will 
spend  his  first  year  of  medical  residency,  with  a 
specialty  in  internal  medicine,  at  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  Medical  School  in  Worcester. 

Previously  with  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co., 
Robert  Zawistowski  is  now  the  utilities  techni- 
cal and  training  director  for  the  S.D.  Warren 
Company,  a  division  of  Scott  Paper. 


1979 


Reunion 


October  1,  1984 


MARRIED:  Sandra  Dorr  and  James  Wilson 
in  Leicester,  MA,  on  February  26,  1983.  She  is 


NOVEMBER  1983        35 


a  programmer-analyst  for  IBM   in  Waltham. 

Wilson  attended  Worcester  Industrial  Technical 
Institute  and  is  a  radio  technician  for  WORAD. 
Inc..  Worcester  Richard  Jenkins  II  and 
Kathleen  Little  in  Providence,  Rl.  on  April  30, 
1983.  Former!)  with  the  Providence  school  de- 
partment, she  graduated  from  Rhode  Island 
College.  Riehard  is  with  Turner  Construction 
Co.,  Columbus.  OH. 

MARRIED:  I)a\id  Mangini  to  Lisa 
Mainiero  on  May  29.  1483.  in  Lynnfield,  MA. 
She  graduated  from  Smith  College  and  received 
her  PhD  from  Yale.  David  attends  the  MBA 
program  at  the  University  of  Connecticut  and  is 
a  specialist  in  cellular  radio  engineering  .it 
Southern  New  England  Telephone.  .  James 
Orcutt  to  Christine  Doherty  in  Vernon.  CT.  on 
June  4.  1983.  Christine  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut  School  of  Business 
Stephen  Rusckowski  to  Diane  Duggan  on 
Jul>  29.  1983.  in  West  Roxbury,  MA.  Frank 
Martin  and  John  Fitzgerald  were  ushers 
Steve  is  currentty  at  the  Sloan  School  of  Man- 
agement at  MIT  Richard  Schneider  and 
Lea  Basso  on  June  18.  1983.  in  Westfield,  MA. 
Lea  is  a  graduate  of  Southeastern  Massachu- 
setts University.  Richard  is  a  marketing  product 
specialist  tor  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro 

Paul  Johnson  recently  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  School. 
Worcester,  where  he  iv  now  serving  a  five-sear 
surgical  residency,  which  involves  tour  hospi- 
tals and  a  one-year  fellowship  in  vascular  sur- 
gery He  has  coauthored  several  articles,  one  of 
which  appeared  in  The  Journal  of  Metabolism 
last  year.  A  self-taught  organist,  he  has  per 
formed  at  numerous  churches,  wedding  recep- 
tions and  variety  shows 

1st  Lt.  Brian  Kelley  has  entered  the  Air 
Force  Institute  of  Technology,  Wright-Patter- 
son AFB.  OH.  where  is  he  studying  for  his 
master's  in  electrical  engineering. 

Peter  Rujawski  has  been  promoted  to  cap- 
tain in  the  U.S.  Army  After  attending  a  chemi- 
cal officer  advanced  course  at  Fort  McClellan. 
AL.  he  will  be  assigned  to  the  Chemical  Sys- 
tems  Laboratory  in  Edgewood,  MD.  Recently 
he  received  his  masters  in  management  at 
Golden  date  University  in  San  Francisco. 

In  June.  David  Lodigiani  o{  Loctite  Corpo- 
ration. Newington,  CT.  left  for  a  six-month 
stay  in  West  Germany,  where  he  will  assist  lo- 
cal engineers  with  a  new  gasketing  technology 
Before  joining  Loctite  in  1981.  he  was  with 
Mobil  Corp.  Lpon  completing  his  Munich  as- 
signment, David  will  relay  the  new  technology 
to  Loctite  s  affiliates  in  France  and  England  be- 
fore relocating  to  Newington. 

Michael  Rafa  has  received  his  MSME  from 
Northeastern  University,  Boston.  He  is  a  design 
engineer  for  the  Aircraft  Instrumentation  Divi- 
sion ofGE  in  Wilmington.  MA 

F.  Charles  Tidman  III  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  loan  officer  at  Mechanics  Bank  in 
Worcester.  He  joined  the  bank  in  1981  as  a 
management  trainee  in  the  commercial  lending 
area  Last  year  he  was  promoted  to  assistant 
loan  officer  He  has  an  MBA  from  Babson  and 
is  enrolled  at  Suffolk  University  Law  School. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Robert  Correia  and  Karen  Silvia 
on  June  4.  1983.  in  Somerset.  MA.  Karen  grad- 


uated from  Stonehill  College.  Robert  is  an  elec- 
tronics engineer.  .  William  Emmet  and  Anne 
Hoskms  in  New  Haven.  CT.  on  June  18.  1983. 
An  alumna  o\  Wellesley.  Anne  recently  com- 
pleted her  first  year  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut School  oi  Law  .  William  is  an  associate 
mechanical  design  engineer  with  Norden  Sys- 
tems, Norwalk.  CT.  He  has  a  masters  degree 
from  Cornell.  .  .  James  Geist  to  Carol  Ann 
Ginty  in  Danvers,  MA.  on  April  16.  1983.  Em- 
ployed by  the  Dana  Farber  Cancer  Institute,  she 
graduated  from  Brandeis.  He  is  with  Frequency 
and  Time  Sv  stems 

MARRIED:  Alan  Graham  to  Sherry  Madi 
son  in  Worcester  on  November  27.  1982. 
Sherry  graduated  from  Clark  University  and  is  a 
systems  analyst  for  State  Mutual.  Worcester. 
Akin  holds  the  post  of  personnel  manager  and 
marketing  specialist  with  Computer  Assistance 
of  East  Hartford.  ..  Arthur  Huggard  and 
Marguerite  O'Keefe  on  May  7.  1983.  in  West 
Roxbury.  MA.  Marguerite  is  an  industrial  ser- 
vice sales  engineer  at  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corporation  and  Arthur  a  process  engineer  at 
Monsanto  Polymer  Products  Company.... 
Ronald  I.esnikoski  and  Lisa  Brunn  of  Los  Al- 
tos. CA.  on  June  4.  1983.  She  is  a  production 
planner  at  Megatest.  where  Ron  works  as  a 
product  support  engineer.  .  .William 
Mangano,  Jr.,  and  Janet  Sulminski  in  Worces- 
ter on  May  22.  1983.  An  assistant  coordinator 
of  the  court-volunteers  program  with  Youth  Op- 
portunities Upheld.  Inc..  Janet  graduated  from 
Assumption  College  He  is  a  programmer  ana- 
lyst at  State  Mutual.  ..  Ralph  Marrone  and 
Debra  Weidler,  '82,  in  Westford,  MA.  on 
June  II,  1983.  She  is  a  mechanical  engineer 
with  GE  in  Fitchburg.  MA.  and  he  is  an  appli- 
cation engineer  for  Hewlett  Packard  in  Lex- 
ington. 

MARRIED:  John  Pierro  and  Kathleen 
Crockett,  '82,  in  Newport.  RL  on  July  16. 
1983.  Kathleen  is  employed  by  Polaroid.  John, 
who  has  a  master's  degree  from  Northeastern. 
is  with  Honeywell.  .  .  Cathryn  Ricci  and  Mark 
Giunta  in  West  Warwick.  RL  on  June  4.  1983. 
Cathryn  is  a  packaging  engineer  at  Digital 
Equipment  Company.  Giunta  graduated  from 
Wentworth  Institute  of  Technology  and  is  a  de- 
signer with  Stone  and  Webster.  ..  Peter 
Schoonmaker  and  Bonnie  MacKav  recently  in 
Woburn.  MA.  She  graduated  from  Woburn 
High  School  and  is  employed  at  Woburn  Five 
Cents  Savings  Bank.  He  is  with  Northern  Re- 
search &  Engineering.  Woburn.  .  .  .  John  Tasse 
to  Leslie  Ann  Stapleton  in  Southboro.  MA.  on 
April  23.  1983.  A  skin  care  consultant,  she 
graduated  from  Sawyer  Business  School  in  Al- 
banv.  Tasse  is  employed  bv  GE  in  Schenectady, 

ny! 

Thomas  Egan  is  a  project  engineer  for  Axel 
Johnson  Engineering  Corp..  a  Swedish-based 
company  in  San  Francisco  which  makes  tur- 
bines for  small-scale  hydroelectric  projects 
throughout  the  U.S. 

Tom  Fawcett  moved  to  Australia  in  July . 
Depending  on  the  job  situation,  he  plans  to  live 
there  for  two  or  three  years 

Kent  Larson  is  study  ing  at  Duke  Business 
School. 

Margaret  Peterson  has  been  named  ESD's 
Outstanding  Engineering  Management  Trainee 
of  the  Year.  She  works  in  the  Department  of 
Manufacturing  in  Acquisition  Logistics  and 
Technical  Operations. 

Mark  Riley  received  a  master  of  engineering 


degree  from  Dartmouth's  Thayer  School  of  En- 
gineering in  June.  He  is  with  Digital  Corp.. 
Merrimack.  NH. 


1981 


MARRIED:  John  DeMasi,  Jr.,  and  Janina 
Natrillo,  '83,  in  Menden.  CT.  on  June  25, 
1983.  She  is  an  electrical  engineer  at  Sikorsky 
Aircraft.  Stratford,  and  he  is  a  mechanical 
design  engineer  with  Norden  Systems. 
Norwalk.  .  David  Ells  and  Virginia  Duff  in 
Cheshire.  CT.  on  April  30.  1983.  An  occupa- 
tional therapist.  Virginia  graduated  from  Qu\n- 
nipiac  College.  David  graduated  from  Nash- 
ville Automotive  Diesel  College  and  is 
co-ow  ner  of  Cheshire  Hardwood  Company 
Edward  Gonsalves  to  Paula  Amaral  on 
May  30,  1983.  in  Somerset.  MA.  She  gradu- 
ated from  Fall  River  Beauty  Academy  and  is 
currently  with  the  First  Federal  Savings  Bank. 
Edward  serves  as  a  design  engineer  for  Texas 
Instruments  in  Attleboro.  MA. 

MARRIED:  Richard  Higger  and  Linda 
Hams  on  June  18.  1983.  in  Whitinsville.  MA. 
A  nurse  anesthetist,  she  graduated  from 
St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  Wor- 
cester, and  St.  Raphael's  Hospital  School  of 
Nurse  Anesthesia.  Richard  is  a  research  assis- 
tant at  WPI.  where  he  is  studying  for  his  mas- 
ter's degree  .  Glenn  Lawton  and  Susan  Thi- 
bodeau,  '83,  on  June  18.  1983.  in  Marblehead. 
MA.  Susan  is  a  quality  control  engineer  for 
Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua.  NH.  Glenn 
serves  as  a  project  engineer  for  Diamond  Elec- 
tro-Optics in  Lexington.  .  .  .  James  Roth  to  Ju- 
dith Megill  in  Oakfand.  ME.  on  July  2.  1983. 
Judith  graduated  from  Becker  and  is  manager  of 
the  Winona  Knitting  Mills  outlet  in  Utica,  NY. 
Roth  works  forGE  in  Utica. 

Raymond  Aubert  has  taken  a  new  job  as 
mechanical  design  engineer  for  the  transmis- 
sion group  at  GE  Ordnance  Systems  in  Pitts- 
field.  MA.  Previously,  he  was  an  application 
engineer  at  the  Tomngton  (CT)  Company . 

Mark  Heinlein  is  studying  for  his  master's 
degree  at  Cornell. 

Currently  Lisa  Kosciuczyk  is  taking  classes 
at  California  State  University  at  Long  Beach, 
preparing  for  her  professional  civil  engineer 
exam  in  April.  She  is  a  senior  civil  engineering 
assistant  for  the  Los  Angeles  County  Flood 
Control  District,  where  she  does  liaison  duties 
for  all  construction.  Her  hobbies  include  aero- 
bic exercise,  ballet  and  cross-stitch.  Last  year 
she  was  named  an  "Outstanding  Young  Woman 
of  America." 

Paul  Molleur  holds  the  post  of  chemical 
process  engineer  in  the  technical-development 
process  engineering  department  at  Hercules. 
Inc.  Polymers  in  Lake  Charles.  LA.  He  assists 
in  major  cost-savings  projects  and  provides 
plant  engineering  support  for  developmental 
product  trials. 

Cliff  Weiner  is  starting  his  second  year  in  the 
MBA  program  at  Duke  University. 


1982 


MARRIED:  James  Auman  and  Joyce  Trela 

on  July  9.  1983.  in  Springfield.  MA.  She  is  a 
project  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  Division 


J6       WPI  JOURNAL 


r^- 


am 

Gertrude  R.  Rugg 

WPPs  First  Registrar 
Emeritus  Remembers 

She  may  be  95  and  recovering  from  a 
stroke,  but  Gertrude  R.  Rugg  is  still  very 
much  "The  Old  G.R."— as  she  calls  her- 
self. Miss  Rugg,  who  retired  as  Registrar 
Emeritus  from  WPI  in  1959  following 
forty  years  of  service,  now  resides  at  the 
Holden  Nursing  Home.  Although  she  is 
confined  to  a  chair,  her  memory  and  sense 
of  humor  remain  unimpaired. 

"I'd  still  like  to  plan  ahead  like  I  used  to 
at  Tech,"  she  says,  "but  in  my  present  cir- 


cumstances I  can't  do  that  much  around 
here!" 

Her  happiest  memories  are  of  her  years 
as  registrar  at  WPI.  "How  I  loved  that 
job!"  she  exclaims.  "It  was  my  life.  I  still 
miss  having  the  students  drop  by  with  their 
problems.  I  even  miss  putting  together  the 
campus  catalog.  There  was  such  a  spirit  of 
informal  formality.  Everyone  was  so  co- 
operative and  fond  of  one  another!" 

Miss  Rugg's  understanding  and  sympa- 
thetic advice  made  her  a  favorite  with  both 
the  students  and  the  staff.  She  was  secre- 
tary of  the  Student  Committee  and  be- 
longed to  the  Scholarship  Committee.  In 
1948  the  seniors  dedicated  The  Peddler  to 
her.  In  1959,  the  year  she  retired,  she  was 
named  the  first  honorary  alumna  of  WPI 
on  Alumni  Day.  That  same  year  her  name 
was  selected  for  inclusion  in  Who 's  Who. 
Recently,  the  Gertrude  R.  Rugg  Scholar- 
ship for  Women  was  established  in  her 
honor. 

Miss  Rugg,  who  attended  numerous 
WPI  functions  during  the  first  eight  years 
of  her  retirement,  still  enjoys  hearing  the 
latest  from  "The  Hill,"  whether  it  be  news 
about  her  former  colleagues  or  The  Plan. 
("I'm  glad  it's  working.")  However,  she 
does  not  live  in  the  past.  She  looks  for- 
ward to  visits  from  friends  and  relatives. 

"Not  many  people  know  this,"  she  con- 
fides, "but  I  was  one  of  the  first  to  dis- 
cover that  the  date  on  the  WPI  seal  was 
wrong,  after  looking  over  the  records.  It 
should  have  been  1865,  not  1868."  Today 
the  seal  stands  corrected. 


of  United  Technologies  Corp.,  Windsor  Locks, 
CT.  He  is  a  plant  engineer  at  Sherwood  Phar- 
maceuticals, Mahwah,  NJ. . .  Paul  Beck  to 
Lynne  Kaczenski  in  Greenfield,  MA,  on 
May  28,  1983.  A  registered  radiologic  technol- 
ogist and  graduate  of  Northeastern  University, 
Lynne  is  currently  working  for  a  degree  in 
health  management  at  Northeastern.  Paul  is  an 
electronics  design  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co.  in 
Bedford. .  .  Richard  Bolstridge  and  Barbara 
Fleming  in  South  Hadley,  MA,  on  June  4, 
1983.  Barbara,  a  social  worker  in  Lynn,  gradu- 
ated from  Fitchburg  State  College.  Richard  is 
with  Teledyne  Engineering  Services  in  Wal- 
tham.  He  is  enrolled  in  a  master's  degree  pro- 
gram at  WPI. . .  .Peter  Booth  and  Jane  Norris, 
'83,  in  Boston  on  June  4,  1983.  Jane  graduated 
as  a  mechanical  engineer.  Peter,  also  a  mechan- 
ical engineer,  is  with  Colt  Industries  in  Hart- 
ford, CT. 

MARRIED:  John  Capurso  to  Susan  Mc- 
Carthy on  April  9,  1983,  in  Norwood,  MA.  A 
registered  nurse,  she  graduated  from  St.  An- 
selm  College  and  is  employed  at  Glover  Memo- 
rial Hospital,  Needham.  He  is  new  products 
project  manager  with  Data  General. ..  Carl 
Cianci  and  Amy  Galante  in  Newington,  CT,  on 
May  14,  1983.  Amy  graduated  from  Bay  Path 
Junior  College.  Carl  is  with  Electric  Boat  in 
Groton,  CT. . .  .Gregory  Fitzgerald  and  Renee 
Cox  on  May  28,  1983,  in  Westfield,  MA.  Re- 
nee graduated  from  Becker  and  teaches  at  the 


Friends  of  Nathorne  DayCare  Center.  Greg 
works  for  GTE  in  Needham,  MA.  .  .  Rene 
Fontaine  and  Louise  Boissel  in  Woonsocket, 
RI,  on  April  23,  1983.  She  is  a  junior  at  Rhode 
Island  College.  Fontaine  is  an  associate  engi- 
neer with  Codex  Corp.,  Canton,  MA.  .  .  Greg- 
ory Green  and  Deidre  Malley,  '83,  on 
May  29,  1983,  in  Harrisville,  RI.  Gregory  is 
with  Computervision  Corp.  in  Bedford,  MA. 

MARRIED:  Brian  Haendiges  and  Ann- 
marie  Kelly  in  Simsbury,  CT,  on  May  28, 
1983.  Annmarie  attended  Becker. .  .  Theodore 
Macutkiewicz  and  Cheryl  Patterson  in  Bellows 
Falls,  VT,  on  May  14,  1983.  She  graduated 
from  Becker  and  is  an  administrative  secretary. 
He  is  a  materials  engineer. . . .  Roy  Thompson 
to  Julie  Thurber  in  Beverly,  MA,  on  April  16, 
1983.  She  graduated  from  Becker  and  is  a  sec- 
retary at  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  NH, 
where  Roy  is  an  electrical  engineer. . . .  Harry 
Vine  and  Abby  Friedman  on  June  5,  1983,  in 
Cresskill.  NJ.  A  graduate  of  Babson  College, 
Abby  is  with  Bank  Leumi  in  New  York.  Harry 
works  for  Eaton  Corporation  in  Melville,  NY. 

Chris  Lintermann  is  now  with  Burns  &  Roe 
in  Kennerwick,  WA. 

Timothy  Roughan  has  been  promoted  to  as- 
sociate consumer  service  representative  at  Mas- 
sachusetts Electric  Co.  in  Hopedale. 

Lt.  Peter  Roussel,  U.S.  Army,  is  currently 
residing  in  Fayetteville,  NC. 

Klaes  Wandland  has  been  commissioned  a 


second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  upon 
graduation  from  Officer  Training  School  at 
Lackland  Air  Force  Base,  Texas. 


1983 


MARRIED:  Robert  Charpentier  and  Karen 
Batalis  in  North  Brookfield,  MA,  on  April  8, 
1983.  Karen  graduated  from  Worcester  Hahne- 
mann Hospital  School  of  Nursing  and  is  a  nurse 
at  the  Meriden-Wallingford  Hospital,  Meriden, 
CT.  Robert  is  an  electrical  engineer  for  North- 
east Utilities,  Meriden.  .  .  .John  Greenup  to 
Suzan  Hurd  in  Milton,  MA,  on  July  2,  1983.  A 
mathematics  teacher,  Suzan  graduated  from 
Mount  Holyoke  College.  John  is  a  research  and 
design  engineer  with  RCA  in  Burlington. . .  . 
Vivian  Hiscock  to  James  Podsiadio  in  Whitins- 
ville.  MA,  on  May  21,  1983.  Vivian  received 
her  MBA  from  WPI  and  graduated  from  Clark. 
Podsiadio  graduated  from  Southeastern  Massa- 
chusetts University  and  is  attending  WPI.  He 
serves  as  a  senior  design  engineer  at  Data  Gen- 
eral. Westboro.  .  .  Richard  Perry  and  Amy 
Taylor  on  January  8,  1983,  in  Worcester.  She 
attended  Becker  and  is  a  student  at  Anna  Maria 
College.  Richard  is  with  Stone  and  Webster  in 
Boston. 

Daniel  Alcombright  has  joined  Procter  & 
Gamble  in  Cincinnati. 

David  Angelini  is  currently  with  the  West- 
inghouse  Graduate  Placement  Program. 

Kevin  Damon  serves  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks, 
CT. 

Patricia  Hester  works  for  GTE  Sylvania  in 
Natick,  MA. 

Cynthia  Kosciuczyk  serves  as  a  research  as- 
sistant at  UMass  Medical  Center  in  Worcester. 

Jeffrey  Labuz,  who  recently  received  his 
MSEE  from  WPI,  has  a  full  fellowship  from 
the  University  of  Virginia  where  he  will  con- 
duct research  and  work  toward  his  doctorate. 

The  Douglas  Macarthurs,  who  were  mar- 
ried on  May  14,  1983,  currently  reside  in 
Nashua.  NH. 

Mark  Mungeam  is  a  member  of  the  Berlin, 
MA,  Planning  Board  and  Conservation  Com- 
mission. 

Eric  Soederberg  has  joined  the  technical 
staff  of  Draper  Laboratories  in  Cambridge. 

William  St.  John,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of  cus- 
tomer service  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard. 
Logic  Systems  Division,  Colorado  Springs, 
CO. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Clifford  Duxburv,  Jr.,  '79,  divisional  man- 
ager of  marketing  communications  at  Bay  State 
Abrasives,  has  been  elected  president  of  the 
Worcester  Area  Advertising  Club.  Associated 
with  the  abrasives  industry  for  29  years,  he  has 
been  with  Bay  State  since  1967.  ..  John 
Grossman,  '83,  who  was  president  of  his  class 
and  student  council  president,  spoke  at  gradua- 
tion ceremonies  at  WPI  last  spring.  He  is  super- 
visor of  planning  and  scheduling  at  Wyman- 
Gordon  Co..  where  he  has  been  employed  for 
27  years. 


NOVEMBER  1983       37 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Wilfred  F.  Jones,  '09,  of  South  Hadley.  MA. 
died  on  April  1 ,  1983.  A  Ludlow  native,  he  was 
born  on  Sept.  20,  1887.  and  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  the  Riter  Con- 
ley  Construction  Co.,  the  Factory  Insurance 
Co..  and  Springfield  (MA)  Fire  and  Marine  In- 
surance Co.,  from  which  he  retired  as  secretary 
in  1956. 

Mr.  Jones  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  the  Masons 
and  the  Kiwanis  Club.  He  was  a  charter  mem- 
ber of  the  Western  Massachusetts  Engineering 
Society  and  a  U.S.  Army  veteran. 

Edward  C.  Bartlett,  '14,  of  Tryon.  NC. 
passed  away  on  May  23,  1983.  He  was  born  on 
Jan.  20.  1892.  in  Worcester  and  received  his 
BSME  from  WPI. 

Except  for  two  years  with  Cambria  Steel  Co. 
and  service  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  World 
War  I.  Mr.  Bartlett  spent  his  entire  career  with 
Wheelock.  Lovejoy  &  Co.,  Inc.,  retiring  in 
1958.  For  many  years  he  was  district  manager 
of  the  firm's  Cleveland  and  Cincinnati  plants 
and  district  director  and  metallurgical  consul- 
tant. 

He  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers,  the  American  Society  for  Metals, 
and  the  American  Society  for  Steel  Treating,  as 
well  as  Theta  Chi,  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Franklin  C.  Gurley,  '14,  the  former  chairman 
of  the  board  of  W&F  Mfg.  Co.,  Inc.,  Buffalo, 
NY,  passed  away  on  June  18,  1983,  in  Lake 
Wales,  FL. 

A  native  of  South  Willington,  CT,  he  was 
born  on  May  31,  1891,  and  graduated  with  a 
degree  in  chemistry.  He  joined  the  former 
National  Aniline  Co.  in  Buffalo  as  a  research 
chemist  and  was  subsequently  promoted  to 
plant  superintendent.  In  1926  he  founded  W&F 
Mfg.  Co.,  Inc.,  which  became  the  world's  lead- 
ing manufacturer  of  wax  novelties  and  candles. 

He  had  served  as  president  of  Glen  Confec- 
tions, Inc.,  FGL  Realty  Co.,  Buffalo  Goodwill 
Industries,  Inc.  and  Gurley-Sibley  Co.  Also,  he 
had  been  a  partner  in  Gurley  Novelty  Co.  He 
belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  the  Buffalo 
Club  and  the  Highland  Park  Club  in  Lake 
Wales.  The  former  vice  president  of  the  Phila- 
delphia chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  he 
later  served  as  president  of  the  Western  New 
York  chapter.  He  was  the  father  of  Franklin 
Gurley,  Jr., '43. 

Franklin  H.  Steele,  '14,  of  Wallingford.  CT. 
died  recently. 

A  native  of  Bristol.  CT.  he  was  born  on 
April  13.  1892.  He  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  with  Pennsyl- 
vania Salt  Mfg.  Co..  Fansteel  Metallurgical 
Corp.  and  National  Southern  Products  Corp.. 
from  which  he  was  retired  as  assistant  to  the 
executive  vice  president. 

Arthur  L.  ("Jim")  Miller,  '15,  a  long-time 
agent  for  New  England  Mutual  Life  and  an  avid 
golfer,  died  at  his  home  in  Chicago  on  June  13, 
1983.  at  the  age  of  90.  He  was  born  in  Worces- 
ter. 
Graduated  as  a  civil  engineer,  he  joined  New 


England  Mutual  Life  in  1917  and  remained 
with  the  firm  throughout  his  career.  After  ini- 
tially selling  insurance  on  the  streets  of  Chi- 
cago, he  decided  that  the  golf  course  was  a 
better  place  to  promote  sales.  He  continued  suc- 
cessfully to  sell  insurance  and  play  golf  until 
last  year. 

In  70  years  of  golf,  Mr.  Miller  was  rewarded 
with  six  holes-in-one,  15  club  championships 
and  the  chairmanship  of  the  Illinois  Senior  Golf 
Association  board.  At  the  age  of  72,  he  was  a 
medalist  in  the  U.S.  Golf  Association  Seniors 
Championship.  He  had  played  with  golfing  im- 
mortals Walter  Hagen,  Byron  Nelson  and  Ben 
Hogan.  He  and  his  regular  partner,  Fred  War- 
ing, won  the  Fred  Waring  Four-Ball  tourna- 
ment four  times. 

Mr.  Miller,  a  U.S.  Army  veteran,  was  a 
former  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Chicago  chap- 
ter of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  and  a  mem- 
ber of  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

William  K.  Jealous,  '16,  of  Jacksonville,  FL, 
died  May  28,  1983.  A  native  of  Pittsfield,  MA, 
he  was  born  on  March  22,  1894. 

After  receiving  his  BS  in  chemistry,  he  spent 
a  year  with  Mount  Tom  Sulphite  Pulp  Co., 
Northampton,  MA.  In  1917  he  joined  the  U.S. 
Army  as  a  lieutenant  and  served  in  France. 
During  his  career,  he  was  with  Carleton  &  Mof- 
fat (foreign  trade);  Alfred  Joensson  Co.,  Inc.; 
Yglesias  &  Co.;  and  Jealous  &  Massot,  New 
York  City. 

In  World  War  II,  he  commanded  the  250th 
Field  Artillery  Battalion.  He  saw  duty  at  St.  Lo, 
the  Argentain-Falaise  Gap  and  the  capture  of 
Strasburg,  among  other  places.  In  1945  he 
retired  as  a  colonel.  Among  his  decorations 
were  the  Bronze  Star,  Medal  for  Military  Merit, 
French  Croix  de  Guerre  with  Bronze  Star,  Sil- 
ver Star  and  Palm. 

Joseph  E.  Murphy,  '16,  a  40-year  employee 
of  AT&T,  passed  away  last  year  in  Houston, 
TX.  He  was  born  on  May  5,  1894,  in  Hudson, 
MA. 

He  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  and 
had  been  employed  by  American  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  and  Western  Electric  Co., 
which  he  had  served  as  manager  of  long  lines 
projects.  He  retired  in  1958  as  long  lines  ser- 
vice manager  of  Western  Electric  in  New  York. 

During  World  War  I,  he  was  a  second  lieu- 
tenant with  the  Signal  Corps  in  the  A.E.F. 

Selden  T.  Williams,  '16,  inventor  of  the  tube- 
less  tire  "snap-in"  valve,  died  in  Southbury, 
CT.  on  April  26,  1983,  at  the  age  of  91.  He  was 
born  in  Canton,  NY. 

Mr.  Williams  held  more  than  50  patents  for 
inventions  for  aircraft,  sound  transmission  and 
tire  valves.  His  "snap-in"  valve  is  used  on  most 
tubeless  tires.  During  a  1918  experiment  he  be- 
came the  first  man  ever  to  fire  an  air  torpedo 
from  an  aircraft.  He  helped  perfect  the  tire  in- 
flation of  the  Army  "duck,"  a  strategic  World 
War  II  vehicle. 

In  1916,  he  received  his  BSME  and  began  his 
career  as  a  technical  editor  and  author.  From 
1917  to  1922  he  designed  and  built  planes  for 
the  U.S.  Navy.  Later  he  became  chief  engineer 


for  the  Victor  Talking  Machine  Company.  Af- 
ter twenty  years  with  A.  Schrader's  Sons,  Inc., 
Brooklyn,  the  company  was  acquired  by  Scovill 
Manufacturing  and  he  was  elected  president 
and  chairman  of  the  board.  He  retired  in  1964, 
continuing  as  a  consultant  to  Scovill. 

Mr.  Williams  also  held  a  BS  and  an  MS  from 
St.  Lawrence  University  (SLU),  which  he 
served  as  emeritus  trustee.  He  received  honor- 
ary doctorates  from  SLU  and  Pratt  Institute.  In 
1963  he  received  the  Goddard  Award  from 
WPI.  He  belonged  to  ATO,  Sigma  Xi,  the  Ma- 
sons and  the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution. 

Professor  Emeritus  Hobart  H.  Newell,  '18, 

who  taught  electrical  engineering  at  WPI  for  44 
years,  died  in  Worcester  on  August  8,  1983.  He 
was  87. 

A  pioneer  in  the  area  of  radio  communica- 
tion. Prof.  Newell  did  early  research  on  high 
voltage  phenomena  at  Westinghouse  Laborato- 
ries in  Pittsburgh,  PA,  from  1919  to  1921.  He 
helped  set  up  radio  station  KDKA,  Pittsburgh, 
one  of  the  first  stations  in  the  country. 

After  joining  the  WPI  faculty  in  1921,  he 
helped  develop  the  electrical  engineering  de- 
partment and  served  as  a  consultant  on  radio 
technology  to  several  radio  stations,  including 
WTAG.  He  also  worked  with  the  City  of  Wor- 
cester developing  police,  fire  and  radio  commu- 
nications systems. 

Prof.  Newell  received  an  honorary  doctorate 
from  WPI  in  1954.  In  1960,  he  was  the  first 
recipient  of  the  Trustees'  Award  for  Outstand- 
ing Teaching.  The  Worcester  Engineering  Soci- 
ety presented  him  with  its  Scientific  Achieve- 
ment Award  in  1964. 

A  native  of  Cumberland,  RI,  Prof.  Newell 
was  born  on  June  10,  1896.  After  receiving  his 
BSEE  from  WPI  in  1918,  he  joined  the  U.S. 
Naval  Experiment  Station,  where  he  was  active 
in  the  development  of  submarine  location  de- 
vices. He  belonged  to  Skull,  ATO,  Sigma  Xi, 
Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu.  Also,  the 
American  Society  for  the  Advancement  of  Sci- 
ence, the  American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education  and  the  Society  for  Computing  Ma- 
chines. A  registered  professional  engineer,  he 
was  a  senior  member  of  the  Institute  of  Radio 
Engineers  and  a  fellow  of  the  IEEE. 

In  1965,  Prof.  Newell  retired  as  a  professor 
emeritus  from  WPI.  When  the  Atwater  Kent 
Laboratories  were  renovated  recently,  the  lec- 
ture hall  was  renamed  in  his  honor. 

Earl  A.  Winsor,  '19,  a  retired  missionary,  died 
at  his  home  in  Wheaton,  IL,  on  April  26,  1983. 
He  was  86. 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  Mr.  Winsor  was 
born  in  Boston.  He  had  a  BA  from  Wheaton 
(IL)  College  and  an  MA  from  the  State  Univer- 
sity of  Iowa.  For  many  years  he  was  a  mission- 
ary with  the  Africa  Inland  Mission  serving  as 
director  of  education  for  various  schools  in  the 
Congo.  He  also  taught  history  and  science  at 
Wheaton  College  and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

Albert  R.  Rienstra,  '20,  a  retired  electrical 
engineer,  died  August  9,  1983,  in  Point  Pleas- 
ant, NJ,  at  the  age  of  85.  He  was  a  native  of 
Whitinsville,  MA. 


38       WPI  JOURNAL 


After  receiving  his  BSEE,  he  joined  the  engi- 
neering department  of  Western  Electric  Co., 
then  became  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at 
Bell  Telephone  Labs.  He  retired  in  1957  from 
Bell  Labs,  New  Providence,  NJ,  following  37 
years  of  service. 

Mr.  Rienstra,  also  self-employed  consultant 
in  church  acoustics,  belonged  to  the  Acoustical 
Society  of  America,  the  Audio  Engineering 
Society  and  the  American  Guild  of  Organists. 
Other  affiliations  were  with  the  Telephone  Pio- 
neers of  America,  the  Old  Guard  and  the  Senior 
Citizens  of  Point  Pleasant  Borough  and  the 
Baptist  church.  He  had  more  than  50  years' 
experience  as  a  church  organist  and  director.  He 
was  the  father  of  Harold  Rienstra,  '49. 

Charles  D.  Gavin,  '22,  of  Fort  Myers,  FL, 
passed  away  recently  at  the  age  of  82. 

The  former  manager  of  Gavin  Hardware 
Company  in  Leominster,  MA.  he  worked  for 
Remington  Arms  Co.,  Bridgeport,  CT,  and 
Phillip  Carey  Co.,  from  which  he  retired  as 
purchasing  agent  after  24  years  of  service.  He 
studied  mechanical  engineering  and  was  a 
member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Weston  Hadden,  '22,  A  long-time  employee 
of  New  York  Telephone  Co..  died  on  June  14, 
1983,  at  his  home  in  Old  Bennington.  VT.  He 
was  86  and  a  native  of  Brooklyn.  NY. 

He  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer.  Origi- 
nally with  Western  Electric,  he  worked  for  the 
New  York  Telephone  Co.  from  1922  until  his 
retirement  in  1952. 

He  belonged  to  ATO.  the  IEEE.  Institute  of 
Radio  Engineers.  Radio  Club  of  America  and 
the  U.S.  Power  Squadron  Club.  Also,  the  Mu- 
nicipal Club  of  Brooklyn  and  the  Brooklyn  As- 
sociation for  Improving  Conditions  for  the 
Poor.  A  trustee  for  the  village  of  Bennington, 
he  was  active  with  the  local  library  club,  the 
Red  Cross.  Old  First  Church  and  the  Rotary.  In 
World  War  I,  he  attended  Naval  Officers  Train- 
ing School. 

Richard  Williamson,  '22,  of  Newton  Centre. 
MA.  died  on  September  22.  1982.  He  was  80. 
A  member  of  the  Class  of  1922,  for  many 
years  he  was  superintendent  of  engineering  at 
Hood  Rubber  Co..  Watertown.  MA.  He  be- 
longed to  ATO  and  the  Tech  Old-Timers. 

Axel  F.  Nilson,  '24,  died  in  Branson.  MO,  on 
March  25.  1983.  He  was  born  on  Nov.  13. 
1898  in  Brooklyn.  NY. 

Mr.  Nilson  had  been  employed  by  Charles  H. 
Tenney  &  Co..  Coral  Gables  Corp.,  Gannett, 
Seeley  &  Fleming  Co.  and  Cayuga  Rock  Salt 
Co.  He  was  a  retired  sales  engineer  from 
Cargill  Salt  Co.  In  World  War  I  he  served  in  the 
U.S.  Army.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Louis  Corash,  '25,  of  Huntington,  NY,  passed 
away  recently.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  on 
November  7,  1903.  and  graduated  as  an  electri- 
cal engineer  from  WPI. 

In  1928.  he  received  his  LLB  from  New  York 
Law  School.  During  his  career  he  was  with 
New  York  Edison.  Alfred  Becker  Engineering. 
Ornstein  &  Silverman  and  Estellite  Corp.  For 
years  he  was  a  self-employed  attorney.  During 
World  War  II.  he  was  a  technical  adviser  to  the 
U.S.  SignalCorps.  Most  recently  he  was  with 
Hotel-Motel  Real  Estate  Investments.  He  was  a 
member  of  A EPi. 


Kenneth  R.  Archibald,  '26,  a  former  veteran 
employee  of  the  New  York  Telephone  Co., 
died  in  Naples,  FL,  on  April  28,  1983.  He  was 
born  in  Ludlow.  VT,  on  June  23.  1902. 

After  receiving  his  BS  in  chemistry,  Mr.  Ar- 
chibald joined  New  York  Telephone  Co.  from 
which  he  retired  in  1967  following  41  years  of 
service.  During  his  career  with  the  company  he 
had  been  a  manager  and  commercial  supervi- 
sor. 

In  retirement,  he  was  named  executive  direc- 
tor of  the  Ludlow  (VT)  Chamber  of  Commerce 
and  subsequently,  the  executive  vice  president 
of  the  Springfield  (VT)  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce. He  held  the  latter  post  until  1981.  He 
was  active  with  Rotary  International  and  was  a 
Paul  Harris  Fellow. 

Mr.  Archibald,  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta,  was  a  past  vice  president  of  the  Schenec- 
tady chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  and 
former  president  of  the  Lake  Rescue  Associa- 
tion and  the  Vermont  Association  of  Chambers 
of  Commerce. 

Ormond  J.  Chinnock,  '26,  of  Livermore, 
CA,  a  retired  sales  representative  for  Hercules 
Powder  Co.,  died  recently.  A  native  of  Cleve- 
land, OH,  he  was  born  on  May  24,  1903. 

Mr.  Chinnock  was  a  graduate  chemist.  Ex- 
cept for  two  years  when  he  had  his  own  busi- 
ness and  one  year  when  he  was  with  Apache 
Powder  Co.,  he  spent  his  career  with  Hercules 
Powder  Co.  He  retired  as  the  supervisor  of  sen- 
ior chemical  and  technical  sales  at  the  firm's 
Hercules,  CA.  branch. 

He  belonged  to  the  AIChE.  the  Masons. 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  Sigma  Xi,  and  he  was  a 
former  member  of  the  President's  Advisory 
Council  at  WPI. 

Donald  L.  Hager,  '26,  former  sales  manager 
for  the  H.  A.  Johnson  Co.,  died  July  2.  1983,  in 
New  Hartford,  NY,  at  the  age  of  79. 

A  mechanical  engineer,  he  had  been  with  the 
Johnson  company  and  had  operated  a  Maico 
Hearing  Aid  business.  He  retired  in  1959. 

He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi.  Active  with 
the  Masons,  he  earned  the  32nd  degree,  was  a 
chief  marshal,  and  was  given  a  meritorious  ser- 
vice award.  He  headed  many  functions  for  Ziy- 
ara  Temple.  Other  affiliations  were  with  the 
Presbyterian  Church.  Rotary  (Paul  Harris  Fel- 
low) and  Salvation  Army. 

Robert  O.  Wright,  '26,  died  in  Knoxville. 
TN,  on  December  3,  1982.  A  native  of  Natick, 
MA,  he  was  born  on  April  2,  1903. 

Graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  from 
WPI,  during  his  career  he  was  with  Sullivan 
Machinery  Co.,  Brooks  Equipment,  Valley 
Materials  Handling.  Inc.,  and  the  Indoor  Gar- 
dener Publishing  Co.,  which  he  served  as  trea- 
surer. He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Arthur  W.  Knight,  '29,  class  president,  WPI 
Trustee  Emeritus,  and  a  past  president  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  died  at  his  home  in  St. 
Johnsbury,  VT.  on  August  3.  1983,  at  the  age 
of  77.  He  was  born  on  April  6.  1906,  in  Boyl- 
ston,  MA,  and  was  a  graduate  electrical  engi- 
neer. 

He  had  been  with  Western  Electric  Co., 
L.  Bamberger  &  Co.,  R.H.  Macy,  Cormac 
Corp.  and  William  Allen  Son's  Company,  Wor- 
cester, which  he  served  as  president.  In  1956  he 
organized  AW.  Knight  Co. 


Mr.  Knight  was  a  former  director  of  the  Wor- 
cester Chamber  of  Commerce  and  chairman  of 
the  Chamber's  small  business  committee.  As  a 
resident  of  Shrewsbury,  he  had  served  on  nu- 
merous town  committees  and  was  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Shrewsbury  Historical  Society.  A 
Vermont  resident  since  1962,  he  was  a  former 
official  in  town  government  and  an  active 
member  of  the  Congregational  Church. 

He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  Skull,  the  Masons 
and  the  Rotary  Club.  He  had  served  WPI  as 
chairman  of  the  Techni-Forum  Committee, 
vice  president  of  the  Northern  New  Jersey 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  Alumni 
Council  member  from  Worcester  and  president 
of  the  Alumni  Association.  In  1964  he  received 
the  Herbert  F  Taylor  Award  for  distinguished 
service  to  WPI. 

Clayton  B.  Marshall,  '29,  of  Monterey  Park, 
CA,  a  retired  chief  chemist  from  Mobil  Oil 
Corp..  died  in  February.  He  was  born  on 
May  8,  1907.  in  Westboro.  MA. 

During  his  many  years  with  Mobil,  he  was  a 
group  leader,  senior  chemist  and  chief  chemist. 

With  a  degree  in  chemistry,  Mr.  Marshall 
was  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon.  He  served 
with  the  U.S.  Army  in  World  War  II.  rising  to 
the  rank  of  captain. 

C.  Eugene  Center,  '30,  a  long-time  employee 
of  Westinghouse,  died  June  9,  1983,  in  Mt. 
Lebanon.  PA.  He  was  born  July  7,  1908,  in 
Boston  and  graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer. 

During  his  Westinghouse  career,  he  worked 
in  East  Pittsburgh,  PA,  Boston,  MA,  and  Au- 
gusta and  Portland,  ME.  At  one  time  he  was 
with  the  Bettis  Atomic  Division  in  West  Mif- 
flin, PA.  He  retired  in  1971.  A  member  of  the 
American  Association  of  Cost  Engineers,  he 
also  belonged  to  the  AIEE.  the  American  Nu- 
clear Society  and  ATO. 

Active  in  alumni  affairs,  Mr.  Center  received 
the  Taylor  Award  in  1974.  He  was  the  first 
chairman  of  the  Alumni  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee, a  past  president  of  the  Boston  and  Pitts- 
burgh chapters  of  the  Alumni  Association  and  a 
member-at-large  of  the  Alumni  Executive 
Committee.  He  was  a  former  class  officer. 
Alumni  Fund  captain  and  member  of  the 
Alumni  Council. 

William  H.  Doyle,  '30,  of  Simsbury,  CT,  who 
was  recently  named  a  fellow  of  the  American 
Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers,  died  on  March 
27.  1983.  He  was  75  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Bantam,  CT,  on  Dec.  28, 
1907.  Graduated  with  a  chemistry  degree  from 
WPI,  he  was  employed  as  a  chemical  engineer 
by  Industrial  Risk  Insurers  of  Hartford,  where 
he  worked  for  more  than  40  years  prior  to  his 
retirement  in  1972. 

Mr.  Doyle  belonged  to  the  National  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers  and  recently  received 
a  distinguished  service  award  from  the  National 
Fire  Protection  Association.  He  wrote  sections 
of  the  Fire  Protection  Handbook.  This  year  he 
was  named  a  fellow  of  the  American  Institute  of 
Chemical  Engineers  in  recognition  of  his  work 
in  accident  protection  and  worker  safety. 

He  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  was 
active  with  the  Congregational  Church  and  the 
Masons. 

Norman  L.   Shaw,   '30,  of  Riverside.   CT, 


NOVEMBER  1983 


59 


passed  away  on  January  5.  1983.  A  native  of 
Holyoke.  MA.  he  was  born  on  June  22.  1905. 

He  received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  manager  of  the  marine  division  of 
Farrel-Birmingham,  Co..  Ansonia.  CT.  from 
which  he  was  retired.  He  was  a  member  of  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Leonard  H.  Peters,  Jr.,  "32,  of  Lenox.  MA. 
died  last  year.  He  was  born  in  Lenox  on  August 
24,  191 L 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  he  was  a  retired 
business  officer  for  Lenox  School  for  Boys. 
Previous  employers  were  National  Alliance  of 
Businessmen.  Inc..  and  American  Airlines, 
which  he  served  as  assistant  to  the  president. 
He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Julius  L.  Gould,  '34,  of  Cohasset.  MA. 
former  vice  president  of  Harold  A.  McCrensky 
&  Associates.  Boston,  died  recently.  He  was 
born  on  Dec.  11.  1912,  in  Greenfield. 

An  electrical  engineer.  Mr.  Gould  had  been 
employed  by  Railway  &  Light  Securities,  Pit- 
ney-Bowes.  Westinghouse.  Bruce  Payne  &  As- 
soc. Philips  Elmet  Corp.,  Wallace  Clark  & 
Co.  and  Amrhein  &  Gould  (consultants). 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and 
the  Masons  and  held  an  MBA  from  Harvard 
Business  School. 

Russell  W.  Fargo,  '35,  a  veteran  employee  of 
the  New  York-New  Haven  Railroad  and  resi- 
dent of  Chester,  CT,  died  in  the  Middlesex  Me- 
morial Hospital  on  May  29.  1983.  following  a 
long  illness.  He  was  69  and  a  native  of  Chester. 
He  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  After  20 
years  with  the  railroad,  he  joined  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft  as  a  chemical  testing  engineer. 
During  World  War  II.  he  was  in  the  U.S.  Army. 

Frederick  W.  Mclntyre,  Jr.,  '35,  previously 
vice  president  and  director  of  Reed-Prentice 
Corp.,  died  at  his  home  in  Worcester  on  May 
22,  1983.  at  the  age  of  71. 

A  Chicago  native,  he  was  a  student  of  me- 
chanical engineering  at  WPI.  During  his  career, 
he  was  with  Universal  Winding  Co..  Neff, 
Kohlbusch  &  Bissell.  Reed-Prentice  Corp.  and 
Mclntyre  Machine  Sales  Co.,  Worcester,  which 
he  served  as  plastics  engineer  and  treasurer.  He 
was  a  director  of  Coes  Knife  Co.  and  a  corpora- 
tor and  advisory  board  member  for  Worcester 
Goodwill  Industries. 

Mr.  Mclntyre  was  a  past  assistant  treasurer 
and  vestryman  of  St.  Luke's  Episcopal  Church 
and  a  founder  of  the  Tatnuck  Ecumenical  Asso- 
ciation. He  belonged  to  the  Society  of  Plastics 
Engineers,  the  Masons  and  the  Shrine  and  The 
Tech  Old-Timers.  He  attended  the  University 
of  Cincinnati. 

Andrew  W.  Palm,  '35,  a  retired  senior  staff 
engineer  for  Stanley  Tools,  died  in  New  Brit- 
ain, CT.  on  April  6.  1983.  He  was  born  in 
Milford.  MA.  on  March  12.  1913.  and  received 
his  BSME  from  WPI. 

For  48  years  he  was  employed  by  the  Stanley 
Rule  and  Level  plant  of  the  Stanley  Works,  re- 
tiring in  1977.  During  his  career,  he  was  a  divi- 
sion superintendent  and  industrial  engineer.  As 
chief  project  engineer,  he  helped  design  and 
construct  the  new  Stanley  Tools  plant. 

Following  his  retirement,  he  was  a  manufac- 
turing lines  consultant  in  Mexico.  Venezuela. 
Brazil  and  Colombia. 


An  Army  veteran  of  World  War  II.  Mr.  Palm 
belonged  to  the  American  Legion,  the  Ameri- 
can Electroplaters  Society.  Society  of  Manufac- 
turing Engineers  and  the  Stanley  Works  Man- 
agement Association.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
Episcopal  Church. 

Stanley  J.  Sleczkowski,  '35,  died  in  a  fire  at 
his  home  in  Framingham,  MA,  on  April  2, 
1983.  He  was  born  April  20.  1913.  in  Fulton. 
NY. 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  he  had  been  em- 
ployed by  Socony-Vacuum  Oil,  the  Metropoli- 
tan District  Water  Supply  Commission  in 
Framingham,  MA.  and  Stone  and  Webster, 
Boston. 

Arthur  H.  Rand,  '39,  died  in  New  London 
(NH)  Hospital  on  May  15.  1983,  at  the  age  of 
66.  He  was  a  native  of  Portsmouth. 

After  graduating  with  his  BS  in  chemical  en- 
gineering. Mr.  Rand  joined  Fraser  Paper  Ltd.. 
Madawaska.  ME.  as  a  mill  engineer  in  1940. 
Later  he  was  advanced  to  chief  service  engi- 
neer. He  retired  last  year. 

In  World  War  II.  he  was  a  captain  in  the  U.S. 
Air  Force.  He  belonged  to  the  American  Le- 
gion and  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Robert  W.  Tuller,  '41,  was  killed  in  a  tractor 
accident  at  his  farm  in  West  Simsbury.  CT,  on 
June  16,  1983.  He  was  born  in  Hartford  on 
March  28,  1920,  and  received  his  BS  in  chemi- 
cal engineering  in  1941. 

Mr.  Tuller  was  a  co-operator  of  Tulmeadow 
Farm,  the  only  working  dairy  farm  in  Sims- 
bury.  The  farm  has  been  in  the  family  for  more 
than  200  years. 

A  former  member  of  the  state  legislature,  Mr. 
Tuller  served  on  the  local  board  of  selectmen, 
the  school  building  commission,  and  the  Char- 
ter Revision  Commission.  He  was  a  charter 
member  of  the  local  Grange  and  was  active 
with  4-H.  the  fire  department.  Methodist 
Church.  Simsbury  Village  Water  Co.  and  the 
Farm  Bureau.  In  World  War  II.  he  served  over- 
seas with  the  Army  Air  Force  21st  Weather 
Squadron.  He  belonged  to  SAE. 

William  J.  Bielauskas,  '43,  a  military  muni- 
tions engineer,  died  March  18.  1983.  in  Pomp- 
ton  Plains.  NJ.  at  the  age  of  62. 

He  was  a  native  of  Worcester.  During  World 
War  II.  he  was  a  C-47  pilot  with  the  Army  Air 
Corps  in  the  China-Burma-India  theater  of  op- 
erations. He  attended  the  University  of  Michi- 
gan. 

Leroy  C.  Doane,  Jr.,  '48,  president  of  the 
L.C.  Doane  Co.,  died  at  his  home  in  Essex, 
CT.  on  March  20.  1983.  following  a  long  ill- 
ness. 

He  was  born  in  Cleveland.  OH.  on  Sept.  14. 
1922.  Graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer,  he 
joined  the  company  his  father  founded.  The 
company  designed  and  produced  the  lighting 
fixtures  used  on  the  original  nuclear  powered 
submarines,  as  well  as  other  fixtures,  primarily 
for  the  government  and  the  U.S.  Navy. 

In  World  War  II  he  served  in  the  U.S.  Army. 
He  was  a  member  of  SPE. 

Thomas  F.  Hunter,  '48,  of  Rutherford.  NJ. 
died  of  a  heart  attack  on  May  9.  1983.  A  native 
of  Mt.  Vernon.  NY.  he  was  born  on  Nov.  18. 
1926.  He  was  a  graduate  mechanical  engineer. 


During  his  career,  he  was  with  Federal  Tel.  & 
Radio.  Clifton,  NJ.  and  the  Pitometer  Co., 
New  York  City,  where  he  was  a  field  engineer. 
At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  an  applications 
engineer  for  Walter  Kidde  &  Co..  Inc., 
Belleville,  NJ.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  was  the  son  of  Russell  Hunter,  '15. 

Arthur  R.  Murphy,  '50,  former  president  of 
Murphy  Associates,  died  in  Lawrence,  MA.  on 
May  29,  1983.  at  the  age  of  60.  He  was  a 
graduate  civil  engineer  and  a  Lawrence  native. 

Most  recently,  he  was  vice  president  of  the 
Massachusetts  Building  Commissioners  and  In- 
spectors Association  and  a  building  commis- 
sioner for  the  City  of  Medford.  Earlier  he  had 
been  with  the  Massachusetts  Department  of 
Public  Works  and  Libbey  Owens  Ford  Glass 
Co. .  where  he  served  as  a  sales  engineer. 

Mr.  Murphy,  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer, was  a  past  president  of  the  Boston  chapter 
of  the  Producers'  Council.  Inc.  He  belonged  to 
ATO,  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers, 
the  Knights  of  Columbus,  the  Elks,  and  the 
American  Legion.  He  attended  St.  Patrick's 
Church. 

In  World  War  II  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Air 
Force.  He  was  a  former  member  of  the  Boston 
branch  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Executive  Commit- 
tee. 

Richard  V.  ("Ollie")  Olson,  '54,  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  mathematical  sciences  at  WPI.  died  in 
Johns  Hopkins  Hospital.  Baltimore,  on  August 
25,  1983.  A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on 
Dec.  26.  1932.  He  was  the  brother  of  Dr. 
Edward  C.  Olson,  '52,  of  Urbana.  IL,  and 
Donald  H.  Olson  of  Augusta.  GA. 

Ollie  began  his  WPI  career  in  1962  as  an 
instructor  and  was  promoted  to  assistant  profes- 
sor in  1977.  A  campus  favorite,  well  known  for 
his  ever-present  "stogy."  he  developed  a  close 
rapport  with  his  students  and  maintained  many 
friendships  with  alumni.  He  and  "Jean  Claude 
Kitty,"  his  independent,  geriatric  cat.  often 
hosted  informal,  student-alumni  get-togethers 
at  their  home  at  2  Sun  Valley  Drive. 

Dr.  Edmund  Cranch.  WPI  president,  said  of 
Olson's  death,  "Ollie  will  be  fondly  remem- 
bered as  a  friend  who  always  had  the  time  to 
talk  with  his  students.  Perhaps  more  impor- 
tantly, he  had  the  time  to  listen  to  them." 

Bill  Trask.  director  of  graduate  and  career 
plans,  added.  "We  at  WPI  will  miss  Ollie,  but 
we  were  fortunate  to  have  known  him  as  a  col- 
league and  a  friend.  He  was  unique.  Future 
students  will  never  have  the  opportunity  of 
sharing  the  rare  teacher  friendship  which  was 
his  hallmark.  That  is  unfortunate." 

Ollie  had  served  as  a  faculty  adviser  to  Alpha 
Chi  Rho  Fraternity  and  as  a  former  adviser  to 
the  WPI  Crew  Club.  The  Crew  Club  named 
one  of  its  first  new  shells  in  his  honor.  Believ- 
ing that  there  was  a  need  for  faculty  and  stu- 
dents to  socialize  outside  of  the  classroom,  he 
was  instrumental  in  launching  the  Goat's  Head 
Pub  on  campus.  He  also  belonged  to  Skull. 

Prior  to  joining  the  teaching  staff  at  WPI, 
Ollie  was  a  research  assistant  at  the  Woods 
Hole  Oceanographic  Institute  on  Cape  Cod.  He 
received  a  BS  in  physics  from  WPI.  studied  at 
Yale  and  Rutgers,  and  in  1961  earned  a  master's 
degree  from  Clark.  During  a  sabbatical  in 
1975-76.  he  studied  with  the  eminent  statisti- 
cian Raymond  H.  Myers  at  Virginia  Polytech- 
nic Institute  and  State  University  in  Blacksburg. 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


More  than  20  freshmen  at  Orientation  this  year  were  second  generation  WPI  students.  Pictured  here  are  WP1  alumni  with  their  fami- 
lies and  freshmen  sons  and  daughters.  Row  1:  Robert  W.  Meyer  '54,  WPl  President  Edmund  T.  Cranch,  Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr. 
'53.  Row  2:  Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr.  '63,  Robert  E.  Maynard  '63.  Row  3:  Nathaniel  M.  Johnson  '60,  Robert  H.  Whyte  '61.  Row  4: 
Jan  W.  Moren  '66,  Donald  J.  Richards  '59.  Row  5:  Williams  S.  Brower,  Jr.  '58,  Paul  J.  Keating  '64,  Benjamin  D.  Brunell  '64.  Row 
6:  Paul  R.  Jolicoeur  '60,  Brian  J.  Kelly  '55.  Row  7:  John  W.  Oldham,  Jr.  '65,  Charles  A.  Whitney  '57.  Missing  when  photo  was 
taken,  the  families  of:  George  F.  Bastien  '62,  Richard  J.  Bouchard  '59,  John  D.  Jennings  '58,  Peter  Marston  '64,  Christopher  F. 
Martin  '53,  Michael  F  Oliver  '65,  Donald  R.  Olsen  '56. 


Ollie  was  a  former  president  of  the  Citizens 
for  Neighborhood  Improvement  and  a  past  di- 
rector of  the  Worcester  Beautification  Council. 
He  belonged  to  the  ASEE,  the  Mathematical 
Society  of  America,  the  American  Mathemati- 
cal Society  and  the  American  Statistical  Associ- 
ation. He  was  active  with  the  Congregational 
Church  and  participated  in  Republican  politics. 
In  1963,  he  was  a  candidate  for  the  Worcester 
School  Committee. 

A  final,  fitting  tribute  to  Ollie  came  from  an 
alumnus:  "If  it  hadn't  been  for  the  extra  tutor- 
ing I  got  from  Ollie,  I  might  never  have  gradu- 
ated from  WPI.  He  always  found  time  to  help 
those  in  academic  difficulty,  not  because  he  had 
to,  but  because  he  wanted  to.  That  was  the  way 
he  was." 

An  evening  memorial  service  for  Ollie  was 
held  at  Alden  Memorial  on  Sept.  1,  with  Father 
Peter  Scanlon  assisting. 

Dr.  Eugene  N.  Wood,  '64  MNS,  dean  of  stu- 


dents at  Lowell  High  School,  died  March  22, 
1983,  in  Boston,  MA,  at  the  age  of  48.  He  was 
born  in  Lowell  on  June  6,  1934. 

He  joined  the  Lowell  school  system  in  1956 
as  a  chemistry  teacher.  Subsequently  he  was 
named  floormaster  and  dean  of  students. 

Dr.  Wood  held  a  BS  from  Boston  College  and 
a  law  degree  from  Suffolk  Law  School.  He  was 
a  U.S.  Army  veteran,  as  well  as  a  member  of 
St.  Michael's  Church,  the  Elks  and  the  Massa- 
chusetts (and  National)  Teachers  Associations. 
He  had  served  as  a  Little  League  umpire. 

Donald  E.  Morrisette,  '66  SIM,  a  veteran  em- 
ployee of  Fenwal  Corporation,  died  March  26, 
1983,  in  Brigham  and  Women's  Hospital,  Bos- 
ton, following  a  long  illness.  He  was  a  native  of 
Exeter,  NH. 

Besides  WPI,  he  attended  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity, Wentworth  Institute  of  Technology, 
Worcester  Junior  College  and  the  Cambridge 
Institute  of  Marketing.   He  joined  Fenwal  in 


1942  and  retired  several  years  ago  as  field  sales 
manager. 

After  service  with  the  U.S.  Navy  in  World 
War  II,  he  and  others  who  had  served  on  the 
USS  Enterprise  in  the  Pacific  received  the  Con- 
gressional Medal  of  Honor. 

Mr.  Morrisette,  who  had  served  on  the 
Hopkinton  (MA)  Finance  and  Appropriations 
Committees  and  the  Planning  Board,  was  previ- 
ously active  with  the  Little  League  and  the  Boy 
Scouts. 

James  F.  Brennan,  '77,  of  Leicester,  MA, 
died  March  26,  1983,  in  a  fire  that  destroyed  a 
summer  home  in  West  Rindge,  NH.  He  was  28. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  the  Worcester  native 
was  working  at  Spag's.  While  at  WPI,  he  had 
belonged  to  the  varsity  basketball  and  baseball 
teams. 

He  belonged  to  St.  Joseph's  parish,  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha  Fraternity  and  the  Celtic  Standard 
Folk  Band. 


Judith  O'Coin,  '85  MGE,  of  Spencer,  MA,  was  a  big  help  in  mobilizing  the  75  student 
volunteers  who  phoned  some  600  graduates  for  the  Alumni  Readership  Survey. 
Read  the  results  on  page  6. 


5   \- 


n  v 


rij  - . 


-V 


4^*-* 

••**■ 


V 


"rniruTTTno 


*4: 


v- 


*r^  £ 


4  '  • 


"ul/ 


—     .    «»     ' 


\i 


IVForeign  Students 
COOP— The  Eight-Month  Energizer 


V 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  87,  NUMBER  3 


Staff  of  The  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 
Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Sam- 
uel W.  Mencow,  '37;  Roger  W.  Miles,  '69; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-16,  33-48  ®  1984, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI  ® 
1984,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Production  Coordina- 
tor, Wendy  Williams-Hauck;  Designer,  Ellen 
Cohen;  Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Gerald  Eckert  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Donald  F. 
Berth  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments:  Typesetting,  BG  Compo- 
sition; Printing,  American  Press,  Inc. 

Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspond- 
ence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA  01609. 
Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster:  If  un- 
deliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the  ad- 
dress above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


FEBRUARY  1984 


Page  4 


jtf 


Page  8 


2  A  Gift  of  Magnificent  Proportions 

Student  aid  from  a  long-lost  alumnus. 

4  It's  My  World,  and  It's  Yours,  Too. 

A  close  look  at  WPI's  foreign  students. 
Michael  Shanley 

8  A  Brilliant  Season 

10  The  Eight-Month  Energizer 

A  successful  program  that's  not  on  campus. 
Kenneth  McDonnell 

14  WPFs  Sports  Hall  of  Fame 
16  A  Shot  in  the  Dark 

I  Monogrammed  Jobs 
Does  personality  affect  the  way  you  work? 
Mary  Ruth  Yoe 

V  Beyond  the  Atmosphere 

With  Space  Telescope,  astronomers  will  see 
the  universe  100  times  better  than  before. 
Ann  Finkbeiner 

XII  Robin  Hood  Revised 

The  legend  isn't  what  it  used  to  be. 
James  C.  Holt 

33  There  Are  Jobs  Out  There 

34  Riding  the  Space  Shuttle 


Departments 

Class  Notes        36 

Completed  Careers       47 

Feedback       Inside  back  cover 

Page  XII 
Cover:  A  fresh  snowfall  blankets  the  east 
entrance  of  Alden  Memorial.  Meanwhile, 
Maura  Mastrogiovanni  (opposite)  uses  a  break 
in  the  weather  for  more  leisurely  pursuits  (Chuck  Kidd  photo). 


s-# 


Page  10 


FEBRUARY  1984        1 


A  Gift  of  Magnificent 

Proportions: 

The  Walter  and  Miriam 

Rutman  Scholarship 

WPFs  largest-ever  donarion  for  scholarships 
comes  from  a  Depression-era  alumnus 
who  everyone  thought  had  forgotten  his  alma  mater. 

By  Michael  Shanley 


The  letters  are  50  years  old  no* . 
and  the  pages  have  yellowed  with 
age.  but  the  words  have  lost  none 
of  their  urgency. 

The  story  told  is  of  a  young  man  anx- 
iously searching  for  work  in  a  dismal  job 
market.  His  correspondence  is  with  a 
job  placement  contact  at  his  alma  mater. 
The  year  is  1934. 

-  'ch  1 1  Coruaci:  There  is  a  p> 
ble  opening   ...  I  have  written  to 
suggest  >  our  name.  .  .    If  you  are 
interested,  write  or  phone  Mr.  Merrill 
immediately  "' 

_'ch  6)  Young  Man:  On  receiving 
your  letter.  I  immediately  telephoned 


Mr  Merrill  only  to  leam  thai  the  posi- 
tion had  been  filled.  Your  lead,  al- 
though it  proved  disappointing.  \*as 
encouraging. 

(Sept.  6 1  Young  Man:  I  still  need  a 
job:  and  necessity  will  soon  place  me 
in  an  awkward  spot.  I  have  managed  an 
irking  sustenance  by  sundry  odd 
jobs.  .  .    How  do  things  appear? 

(Sept  1 1 )  Contact:  We  ha\en"t  had 
wind  of  anything  during  July  and  Au- 
gust Bui  I  am  confident  there  will  be 
need  for  more  men  this  fall . 

4)  Young  Man:  Thank  you  for 
your  letter  of  recommendation,  but  the 
firm  was  unable  to  raise  the  necessary 
funds  and  the  high  enthusiasm  dw  indled 
quickly I  need  a  job  badl> 


The  young  man  did  get  a  job.  He 
worked  hard.  He  prospered.  His  alma 
mater  heard  little  from  him  over  the  years, 
but  the  young  man  had  not  forgotten. 

His  name  was  Walter  Rutman.  Class  of 
1930.  He  died  last  year  at  the  age  of  74  In 
his  will,  he  left  W  PI  SI  .5  million.  The 
money .  he  specified,  is  to  be  used  "for 
scholarships  for  needy  students." 

Rutman  owned  the  Rhode  Island  Herald 
newspaper,  and  he  was  owner  and  presi- 
dent of  the  Herald  Press  and  the  Ondine 
Publishing  Company,  both  in  Rhode 
Island.  He  was  the  former  owner  of  the 
East  Providence  Post  and  the  Seekonk 


WP1  JOURNAL 


(Mass.)  Star,  both  weekly  newspapers. 

Rutman's  wife  of  45  years,  Miriam, 
says  her  husband  never  kept  in  touch  with 
anyone  at  WPI  because  "That's  the  way 
he  was,  a  very  private  man."  But  he  did 
remember  the  school  fondly.  "He  always 
felt  he  got  an  especially  good  education 
there." 

By  earmarking  the  money  for  scholar- 
ships, Rutman  may  have  been  trying 
to  lighten  for  others  the  burden  he  himself 
shouldered  at  WPI.  He  put  himself 
through  school,  in  part  by  working  as  a 
correspondent  for  the  Worcester  Evening 
Gazette.  This  introduction  to  journalism 
would  later  serve  him  well. 

Upon  his  graduation  in  1930,  the 
young  chemist  found  a  job  with 
Chase  Copper  and  Brass  Company  in 
Waterbury,  Conn.  When  the  economy 
failed  to  rebound  during  the  early  years  of 
the  Great  Depression,  the  company  was 
forced  to  lay  off  workers,  and  Rutman, 
still  single  then,  was  without  a  steady  job. 
"They  only  kept  the  men  who  had  fami- 
lies to  support,"  says  Mrs.  Rutman,  who 
married  Walter  in  1938. 

Rutman  soon  moved  to  Providence, 
where  he  had  relatives,  and  persevered 
through  a  series  of  odd  jobs.  Then,  in 
1935,  his  fortune  began  to  change.  He  and 
a  partner  bought  the  struggling  Jewish 
Herald  newspaper. 

In  those  early  days  at  the  Herald, 
Rutman  was  troubled  by  a  nagging  prob- 
lem: he  couldn't  find  a  printer  whose 
standards  of  quality  and  speed  met  his 
own.  Says  Arthur  Lemoi,  who  worked 
with  Rutman  for  nearly  25  years  and  now 
runs  the  business  for  Mrs.  Rutman,  "He 
didn't  want  to  print  his  paper  when  some- 
body else  was  ready.  Finally  he  just  de- 
cided to  do  it  himself."  Thus  was  born  the 
Herald  Press. 

It  was  at  this  point  that  Rutman,  who  by 
now  had  bought  out  his  partner  and  was 
sole  owner  of  the  Jewish  Herald,  took 
what  others  saw  as  a  foolish  gamble:  his 
printing  company  was  among  the  first  to 
adopt  the  new  offset  printing  process,  a 
controversial  alternative  to  the  traditional 
letterpress  procedure.  There  were  those 
who  predicted  disaster.  Now,  of  course, 
offset  is  the  industry  standard. 

In  later  years,  he  brought  in  the  web 
press,  phototypesetters  and  OCRs  (optical 
character  readers).  "We  were  using  the 
computer  in  the  mid-'60s— long  before 
most  publishers,"  says  Lemoi. 

In  the  1960s,  Rutman  formed  the 
Ondine  Publishing  Company  for  retail 
publishing  accounts.  He  also  bought  the 


Walter  Rutman,  Class  of  1930.  Opposite: 
Mrs.  Miriam  Rutman  and  Kathy  Kruczek, 
'84  ME,  of  the  Student  Alumni  Society,  at 
a  ceremony  announcing  the  fund. 

East  Providence  Post  and  started  the 
Seekonk  Star.  "At  one  time  or  another,  the 
company  printed  almost  every  community 
newspaper  in  Rhode  Island  and  southeast- 
ern Massachusetts,"  says  David  Howard, 
who  worked  as  an  editor  for  Rutman  and 
now  publishes  the  Post  and  the  Star. 

Of  Rutman's  editorial  stance,  Howard 
says,  "He  looked  at  the  community  news- 
paper as  a  source  of  hometown  news  with 
as  much  emphasis  on  the  person  who  was 
promoted  in  his  or  her  job,  as  on  what  was 
happening  with  the  zoning  board."  His 
papers  earned  a  reputation  for  fairness  and 
accuracy  of  reporting  as  well  as  for  excel- 
lent printing. 

Rutman's  passion  was  his  work— seven 
days  a  week.  "He  was  tough,  but  he  was  a 
straight  shooter,"  says  Lemoi. 

Rutman's  drive  and  determination 
carried  through  all  he  did,  business 
or  pleasure.  Tony  Caranci,  golf  course 
superintendent  at  Ledgemont  Country 
Club,  got  to  know  him  well,  because 
Rutman  was  Ledgemont 's  greens  commit- 
tee chairman  for  many  years. 

"I'd  see  him  out  on  the  course  almost 
every  morning,"  remembers  Caranci. 
"And  I  mean  early— six  o'clock  or  be- 
fore—just him  and  my  sprinklers." 

Later,  nearing  70,  Rutman  found  a  new 
interest — canoeing.  As  usual,  he  went  all 
out. 

"One  night  I  got  this  call  from  a  total 
stranger,"  recalls  Manny  Point,  founder 
and  past  president  of  the  Rhode  Island 


Canoeing  Association.  "He  said  he  was 
going  on  a  canoe  trip  to  the  Allegash 
Wilderness  Waterway  in  Maine,  and  he 
wanted  to  learn  everything  about  the 
sport."  Point  agreed  to  give  the  stranger  a 
few  tips. 

"When  I  saw  this  thin  older  man  walk 
up,  I  began  to  wonder  what  I  had  gotten 
myself  into.  But  he  was  stronger  than  he 
looked  and  he  worked  very  hard.  He  came 
back  from  that  first  Maine  trip  happy  as  a 
baby.  What  he  remembered  most  about 
WPI  was  the  professors  he  had.  He  spoke 
highly  of  them." 

Rutman's  education  never  really  ended. 
The  Rutmans  were  active  members  of 
the  Providence  Athenaeum,  one  of  the 
oldest  private  libraries  in  the  country.  The 
Athenaeum  staff  remember  him  as  a  very 
quiet  man.  And,  quietly,  he  left  the 
Athenaeum  $50,000,  the  largest  gift  the 
library  has  ever  received. 

"His  devotion  to  the  Athenaeum  sur- 
prised even  me,"  says  Mrs.  Rutman,  who 
is  still  a  regular  there.  Nor  was  she  aware 
of  the  great  extent  to  which  he  had  helped 
Trinity  Square  Repertory  Company, 
Providence's  theatre  group. 

Marion  Simon,  assistant  to  Trinity 
director  Adrian  Hall,  calls  Rutman 
"...  the  greatest  benefactor  we  had.  He 
printed  all  our  programs  and  never  asked 
for  the  money  we  owed.  He  had  a  deep 
sense  of  what  was  right  and  wrong." 

It  was  this  sense,  one  can  surmise,  that 
moved  this  quiet,  intensely  private  man  to 
provide  generations  of  students  with  an 
opportunity  they  might  otherwise  be  de- 
nied. Scholarships  for  needy  students  are 
important,  Walter  Rutman  might  say. 
They  are  "right." 

At  the  public  announcement  of  the 
Rutmans'  magnificent  gift,  held  at 
WPI  on  October  12  and  attended  by  Mrs. 
Rutman  and  some  200  students,  faculty 
and  friends  of  the  college.  President 
Edmund  T  Cranch  declared,  "This  gift, 
establishing  the  Walter  and  Miriam 
Rutman  Scholarship  Fund,  will  enable 
WPI  to  lighten  the  financial  burden  many 
of  our  students  are  forced  to  bear." 

Said  Robert  F.  Reeves,  Vice  President 
for  Student  Affairs,  "The  nation  can  ill 
afford  to  have  qualified  students  miss 
getting  the  highest  quality  scientific  and 
technological  education  because  of  insuf- 
ficient resources.  Similarly,  WPI  cannot 
let  the  quality  of  our  student  population  be 
determined  by  their  ability  to  pay." 

"The  Rutmans,"  added  Dr.  Cranch, 
"recognized  that  education  is  the  common 
currency  of  democracy." 


FEBRUARY  1984 


It's  My  World 
and  It's  ^burs,  Too. 

Students  from  nearly  50  countries  bring  to  WTI  a  rich  tapestry 
of  backgrounds.  But  for  some,  the  road  home  may  be  treacherous. 


By  Michael  Shanlev 


Kiet  remembers  the  guards"  subma- 
chine guns  reflecting  in  the  moon- 
light as  he  and  hundreds  of  others 
boarded  the  rusted  fishing  boat  that  night. 
He  was  too  young  then  to  be  properly 
terrified,  too  voung  to  realize  how  many 
"boat  people"  never  saw  land  again. 
He  was  unaware  how  mam  fell  v  ktim  to 
foul  weather,  unsafe  boats  and  marauding 
pirates. 

Kjets  father  had  been  trying  to  get  the 

famil)  out  of  Vietnam  for  four  years — ev  er 

since  the  communists  took  Saigon  in  1975. 

The  boat  trip  was  a  final  act  of  despera- 


tion, a  long  and  arduous  journev  under- 
taken only  as  a  last  resort.  Efforts  at  secur- 
ing forged  papers  that  would  have  allowed 
the  family  to  leave  by  air  had  failed.  So 
had  the  other  alternatives  Kiet  s  father  had 
explored.  He  had  dealt  with  a  number  of 
seed>  characters  peddling  empty  prom- 
ises. Most  had  simph  stolen  his  mone> 
and  fled  into  the  Saigon  underworld. 

If  other  possibilities  for  escape  even  ex- 
isted, there  was.  suddenh.  precious  little 
time.  The  famil}  was  being  followed  b> 
the  secret  police— had  been,  they  were 
chilled  to  learn,  for  more  than  a  >ear. 

It  was  time  for  drastic  action:  it  was  time 
to  secure  a  boat. 

A  group  of  friends  banded  together  and 


purchased  the  iron-hulled  fishing  boat  that 
would  take  them  to  Hong  Kong.  The 
proper  officials  were  bribed,  the  plans 
were  made.  Papers  were  forged  so  that  rel- 
atives, and  not  the  government,  would  get 
their  house  and  belongings. 

Now  the  Hoangs— Kiet.  his  parents,  two 
brothers  and  a  sister— were  set  to  leave 
their  troubled  homeland.  For  Kiet.  that 
homeland  represented  a  jumbled  mixture 
of  memories.  There  were  the  good  times: 
the  family  gatherings,  the  childhood 
friends,  the  sheer  excitement  of  growing 
up.  But  there  were  also  honors  like  the  Tet 
offensive  of  1968.  with  bombs  dropping 
across  the  river  and  hills  of  human  bodies 
piling  up  on  the  roadside. 


4       WP1  JOURNAL 


All  in  all,  Kiet  was  glad  to  be  leaving, 
glad  because  it  meant  not  having  to  anx- 
iously await  the  arrival  of  his  father  each 
evening.  The  entire  family  had  come  to 
live  vicariously  through  Mr.  Hoang,  wait- 
ing to  see  the  expression  on  his  face  when 
he  came  through  the  door  at  the  end  of  the 
day.  A  smile  meant  he  had  a  lead  on  some 
means  of  escape;  it  meant  hope.  If  there 
was  no  smile,  well,  things  had  gone 
poorly,  another  plan  had  fallen  through, 
another  hope  had  been  dashed. 

More  than  400  people  were  crammed 
into  the  boat  that  night  as  it  slipped  with- 
out incident  off  into  the  moonlight.  For 
nine  days  they  huddled  together,  eating 
only  rice.  Twice  they  bypassed  Hong 
Kong  by  mistake.  They  spent  an  entire  day 
hopelessly  lost  somewhere  off  the  coast  of 
mainland  China.  Another  day,  the  boat 
was  nearly  destroyed  in  a  ferocious  storm. 

But  in  the  end,  the  Hoang  family  were 
survivors.  They  finally  landed  on  the 
shores  of  Hong  Kong,  where  they  lived 
with  relatives  for  five  months.  Eventually, 
they  came  to  the  United  States  and  now 
live  on  Cape  Cod. 

Kiet  is  a  sophomore  computer  science 
major  at  WPI.   If  his  past  differs 
greatly  from  that  of  most  students,  then  he 


serves  as  an  excellent  illustration  of  the 
one  overriding  tie  that  binds  the  WPI  for- 
eign student  population:  they  bring  to  the 
campus  a  richly  textured  background  often 
unfamiliar  to  American  students. 

About  280  foreign  students  from  46 
countries  are  currently  enrolled  at  WPI— 
about  7.3  percent  of  the  full-time  popula- 
tion. Of  these,  about  125  are  graduate 
students.  More  facts: 

As  might  be  expected,  figures  nationally 
vary  greatly.  According  to  the  Institute  of 
International  Education,  foreign  students 
represented  2.7  percent  of  the  total  U.S. 
higher  education  enrollment  for  the  1982- 
83  school  year. 

Miami-Dade  Community  College 
headed  all  others  with  4,186  foreign  stu- 
dents enrolled.  The  University  of  Southern 
California  and  University  of  Texas  at  Aus- 
tin were  next  in  line.  Northrup  University, 
in  Inglewood,  California,  claimed  the 
largest  percentage  of  foreign  students— 
70.5  percent,  followed  by  Southeastern 
University,  in  Washington,  D.C.,  where 
64.9  percent  of  the  students  are  foreign. 

Massachusetts,  with  more  than  16,000 
foreign  students,  was  ranked  fifth  in  the 
country  in  total  number  enrolled,  behind 
California,  New  York,  Texas  and  Florida. 
MIT's   foreign-student   enrollment    for 


At  WPI  (from  left):  Lisa  Lee,  '87,  New 
York  City,  formerly  from  Hong  Kong; 
Carlos  Gutierrez,  '87,  Guaynabo, 
Puerto  Rico;  Luis  Quijano,  '86,  Panama 
dry,  Panama. 

1982-83  was  20  percent  of  MIT's  total  en- 
rollment, BU's  was  7.8  percent  and  Har- 
vard's was  12.5  percent. 

Nearly  a  quarter  of  the  national  foreign 
student  population  studies  engineering, 
making  it  the  most  popular  field  of  study. 

The  largest  single  group  of  foreign  stu- 
dents in  the  U.S.  comes  from  Iran.  Out  of 
a  total  foreign  student  population  of 
336,985  in  1982-83,  more  than  25.000 
were  Iranian.  That  number,  however,  rep- 
resents a  50  percent  drop  from  the  1979- 
80  school  year. 

In  the  last  decade,  students  from  Iran 
made  up  a  large  block  of  the  WPI  foreign 
student  population,  but,  following  the  na- 
tional trend,  their  numbers  have  dipped 
sharply  in  recent  years.  The  number  of  Ira- 
nians enrolled  as  full-time  undergraduates 
at  WPI  plummeted  from  49  in  1979-80  to 
28  in  1982-83  to  12  in  1983-84.  More- 
over, there  are  no  Iranian  students  in  this 
year's  freshman  class. 

It's  not  hard  to  see  why.  Iran  has  been  in 
turmoil  since  the  revolution  of  1978,  when 
the  Shah  was  overthrown  and  the  Ayatol- 
lah  Khomeini  seized  power.  In  addition, 
the  current  war  with  Iraq  has  destroyed 
students'  plans  to  study  in  the  U.S. 

Iranian  students  at  WPI  have  felt  the 
crunch.  Many  live  in  a  troubling  twilight 
of  uneasiness  that  most  American  students 
can  only  imagine.  For  some,  the  phrase 
"you  can't  go  home  again"  is  chillingly 
real. 

One  student,  who  for  obvious  reasons 
chooses  not  to  be  identified,  admits  to  hav- 
ing participated  in  the  1978  revolution. 
Now  he  regrets  it. 

"At  the  time,  it  seemed  the  right  thing  to 
do,"  he  says.  "So  many  of  those  in 
power— the  wealthy— were  corrupt.  But 
now  it's  much  worse." 

He  tells  of  letters  from  home  always 
arriving  opened,  of  phone  calls  being 
bugged.  There  is  even  concern  that  a  gov- 
ernment informant  could  be  planted  here 
at  WPI.  Despite  the  fact  that  his  family  is 
still  in  Iran,  this  student  vows  not  to  return 
while  Khomeini  is  in  power. 

"There's  no  future  for  me  there,"  he 
says.  "My  friends  who  stayed  in  Iran  are 
now  in  the  army  or  working  at  odd  jobs. 
Their  talents  have  been  totally  wasted. 
The  universities  there  are  a  joke  now. 
Everything  is  political." 

He  knows  horror  stories  of  imprison- 


FEBRUARY  N84 


ment  and  harassment,  torture  and  execu- 
tion. "One  letter—"  he  says,  "if  it  goes  to 
the  right  person— is  enough  to  get  some- 
one hanged." 

Dean  of  Students  Bernard  H.  Brown, 
who  is  responsible  for  the  undergraduate 
foreign  student  program  at  WPI,  says  that 
Iranian  students  who  want  to  remain  in  the 
U.S.  after  graduation  must  enroll  in  a 
graduate  program,  apply  for  one  year  of 
practical  training  experience,  or  apply  for 
political  asylum. 

"And  if  they  do  apply  for  asylum."  says 
Brown,  "then  their  family  back  home 
could  be  in  danger  because  an  application 
for  asylum  is  considered  a  denunciation  of 
the  Ayatollah." 

Fortunately,  most  foreign  students  don't 
face  such  troubling  decisions.  For 
many,  cultural  adjustments  are  the  biggest 
hurdle.  To  offset  potential  problems  of 
that  kind.  Dean  Brown  and  his  staff  offer  a 
special  orientation  program  for  foreign 
students  enrolled  in  the  freshman  class. 
People  like  Dean  John  van  Alstyne,  Regis- 
trar Robert  Long  and  oral  communication 
specialist  Kay  Draper  participate  and  ex- 
plain programs  informally  to  the  students. 

"Things  we  take  for  granted— speech, 
transportation  and  religious  practices,  for 
example— can  be  a  real  problem  for  some 
of  these  students,"  says  Dean  Brown. 

One  recently  developed  resource  is  the 
WPI  International  Student  Handbook, 
completed  in  the  summer  of  1982  as  an 
IQP  by  two  undergraduate  foreign  stu- 
dents, Luis  Anez  and  Jorge  Castillo.  Dean 
Brown's  staff  updates  it  annually  and  dis- 
tributes it  at  the  orientation.  In  addition  to 
explaining  the  facilities  at  WPI.  the  hand- 
book offers  practical  advice  on  everything 
from  how  to  open  a  checking  account  to 
when  to  give  someone  a  tip. 

One  major  purpose  of  the  orientation  is 
to  test  a  student's  spoken  English  and  to 
offer  help  if  it's  needed.  That  help  often 
comes  in  the  form  of  enrollment  in  one  of 
Kay  Draper's  public  speaking  classes. 
Mrs.  Draper  uses  WPI's  audiovisual  facili- 
ties to  tape  each  student  as  he  presents 
speeches  during  the  course  of  a  term. 

"The  difference  between  the  first  and 
the  last  taping  is  phenomenal,"  she  says. 

Students  who  have  come  in  contact  with 
Mrs.  Draper  speak  glowingly  of  her.  not 
just  as  a  teacher,  but  as  a  person,  a  friend 
and  a  shoulder  to  cry  on.  Mrs.  Draper,  in 
turn,  credits  the  entire  WPI  community 
with  making  foreign  students  welcome. 

"Everyone,"  she  says,  "from  the  deans 
to  the  faculty  and  staff  to  the  American 
students,  has  done  a  fantastic  job.  WPI  is 


known  for  its  treatment  of  foreign  stu- 
dents. People  here  care;  they  take  the 
time.  I've  known  of  secretaries — who 
have  God  knows  how  many  other  things  to 
do— struggling  for  20  minutes  to  under- 
stand a  foreign  student's  problem." 

Mrs.  Draper,  whose  dealings  with  Chi- 
nese students  earned  her  a  six-week  teach- 
ing trip  to  China  last  fall,  views  treatment 
of  foreign  students  as  having  repercussions 
far  beyond  WPI's  boundaries. 

"In  a  very  real  sense,  world  policy  of 
tomorrow  depends  on  what  we  do  today. 
The  students  who  come  through  our  doors 
are  tomorrow's  leaders,  and  the  first  im- 
pression they  get  of  this  country  is  here." 

Reviewing  videotapes  of  speeches  pre- 
sented by  students  in  Mrs.  Draper's  class 
illustrates  another  aspect  of  the  foreign 
student  population:  many  seem  more  alert 
to  political  and  social  realities  than  their 
American  counterparts.  Witness  Mrs. 
Draper's  students  arguing  global  politics, 
the  plight  of  the  industrial  worker  and  ne- 
glect of  the  elderly. 

Lisa  Lee,  originally  from  Hong  Kong 
and  now  a  resident  of  New  York  City, 
speaks  passionately  about  world  hunger, 
about  the  fact  that  many  Americans  take 
for  granted  the  kinds  of  meals  that  millions 
of  children  around  the  world  never  see.  At 
the  end  of  her  speech  she  sings,  in  a  strong 
voice  and  without  a  trace  of  self-con- 
sciousness, the  words  to  one  of  her  favor- 
ite songs:  "It's  my  world  and  it's  yours, 
too,  and  there's  a  lot  we  both  can  do  if  we 
try.  .  .  ." 

Carlos  Gutierrez,  from  Puerto  Rico, 
gives  his  talk  on  the  United  States  and  its 
involvement  with  Third  World  countries. 
He  is  an  unabashed  apologist  for  non- 
aggression.  Luis  Quijano.  a  Panamanian, 
knowingly  discusses  communism  in  Cen- 
tral America:  how.  for  example,  the  peas- 
ants view  the  superpowers  jockeying  for 
position. 

Contrast  this  with  a  recent  poll  taken  by 
editorial  writers  at  the  Worcester  Tele- 
gram. Students  from  five  area  colleges 
(Assumption.  Clark.  Holy  Cross,  WPI 
and  Worcester  State)  were  asked  questions 
on  history  and  current  events.  Results 
showed  that  only  a  third  of  the  students 
could  name  the  U.S.  Senators  from  their 
state.  Fewer  than  30  percent  could  identify 
U.S.  Secretary  of  State  George  Schultz. 
One  senior  at  WPI,  after  placing  the  finish 
of  World  War  II  in  1952.  was  quoted  as 
saying  of  wars,  "They're  nothing  I  ever 
bothered  to  pay  attention  to." 

In  addition  to  speech  classes.  Dean 
Brown's  office  makes  a  number  of  other 
services  available  to  foreign  students. 


Far  right:  Oral  communication  specialist 
Kay  Draper  with  Da  Hai  Ding,  '83, 
WPI 's  first  graduate  from  the  People 's 
Republic  of  China.  Right:  Dean  of  Stu- 
dents Bernard  Brown. 

World  House,  at  the  corner  of  West 
Street  and  Institute  Road,  was  established 
in  1982  as  a  place  where  incoming  foreign 
students  could  stay  for  a  night  or  two  upon 
their  arrival  in  Worcester.  "We  didn't 
want  them  to  be  forced  into  a  hotel  on  their 
first  night  in  town,"  says  Dean  Brown. 

The  house  has  evolved  into  an  all-pur- 
pose spot  for  meetings,  lectures,  parties 
and  other  activities.  As  one  foreign  student 
remarked.  "You  feel  like  a  little  grain  of 
sand  when  you  first  get  here,  and  World 
House  helps  you  get  through  that." 

Dean  Brown's  office  also  publishes  a 
periodic  newsletter.  World  House  Wire- 
less, to  keep  international  students  abreast 
of  new  policies,  programs  and  events. 
Sprinkled  throughout  the  year  are  holiday 
parties,  films  of  special  interest  and  activi- 
ties coordinated  through  the  International 
Center  of  Worcester. 

According  to  Dean  Brown,  one  of  his 
most  important,  and  frustrating,  duties  as 
International  Student  Advisor  is  dealing 
with  federal  regulations.  Last  summer,  the 
Reagan  administration  enacted  tough  new 
immigration  policies  designed  to  keep  a 
closer  watch  on  the  nation's  350.000  for- 
eign students.  Most  changes  involve  the 
filing  of  more  paperwork,  but,  he  says,  the 
new  regulations  have  presented  WPI  with 
few  major  problems. 

With  regard  to  national  student  immi- 
gration procedures  in  general.  Dean 
Brown  says  a  tightening  was  actually  long 
overdue.  "It  had  gotten  to  the  point  where 
the  government  had  no  idea  who  or  where 
some  of  these  students  were." 

Considering  the  sheer  numbers  in- 
volved—hundreds of  foreign  students 
versus  a  handful  of  WPI  faculty  and  staff 
to  deal  with  them— the  foreign  student  pro- 
gram must  be  labeled  a  great  success. 

Still,  it  appears  that  a  watershed  of  sorts 
has  been  reached.  WPI  may  well  be  near- 
ing  its  limit  in  terms  of  the  number  of  stu- 
dents who  can  be  effectively  assimilated 
under  the  current  arrangement. 

Dean  Brown  admits  that  he  doesn't  have 
the  time  or  resources  to  do  all  he'd  like  to 
for  foreign  students.  Charles  Heventhal  of 
the  Humanities  Department,  who  coordi- 
nates the  English  as  a  Second  Language 
program  and  thus  deals  with  nearly  all  un- 
dergraduate foreign  students,  is  also  con- 
cerned about  strain  on  the  program. 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


"People  are  overtaxed,  there's  no  ques- 
tion about  it."  he  says.  "But  the  important 
thing  is  that  we  have  a  good  structure  in 
place  and  we're  building  on  that  structure 
now.  If  we're  going  to  get  more  foreign 
students,  we've  got  to  do  it  right." 

Will  there  be  greater  numbers  of  foreign 
students  at  WPI  in  the  future?  A  look  to 
the  past  says  yes. 

Twenty  years  ago,  during  the  1963-64 
school  year,  48  out  of  1,315  students 
were  from  foreign  countries.  That's 
3.6  percent.  A  random  check  of  statistics 
at  five-year  intervals  since  then  shows  a 
slight  increase  to  3.8  percent  for  the  1968- 
69  school  year,  followed  by  jumps  to 
5.6  percent  in  1973-74  and  6.8  percent  in 
1977-78,  culminating  with  this  year's  in- 
crease to  7.4  percent. 

Nationally,  however,  growth  in  the 
numbers  of  foreign  students  has  stalled.  In 
the  1970s,  each  new  year  showed  at  least  a 
10  percent  jump  in  foreign  student  enroll- 
ment. Figures  from  the  Institute  of  Inter- 
national Education  show  just  a  3.3  percent 
increase  in  1982-83.  A  report  issued  by 
the  Institute  offers  these  reasons:  "Ser- 
vices have  suffered,  financial  aid  has  been 
reduced,  and  requirements  for  admission 
have  become  more  difficult  to  meet."  The 
worldwide  economic  recession  of  the  early 
1980s  was  also  credited  with  having  hurt 
the  foreign  student  population. 

But  most  of  the  policy  changes  that  have 
negatively  affected  incoming  foreign  stu- 
dents— tougher  admission  policies,  fewer 
tuition  assistance  programs  and  even  some 


tuition  surcharges— apply  primarily  to 
public  institutions,  which  enroll  65  percent 
of  the  foreign  students. 

At  WPI  and  other  private  institutions 
like  it,  there  is  no  financial  assistance 
available  to  foreign  students  and,  at  least 
in  theory,  admission  is  based  solely  upon 
merit.  If  anything,  places  like  WPI  will 
be  seeking  more  foreign  students. 

WPI  Director  of  Admissions  Roy 
Seaberg,  '56  ME,  says  competition  for 
top-flight  foreign  students  will  heat  up  in 
light  of  the  dismal  demographics  facing 
colleges  in  the  coming  years.  Seaberg  this 
year  instituted  recruiting  trips  to  South 
America  and  Europe. 

"In  purely  practical  terms,"  he  says, 
"qualified  foreign  students  are  extremely 
attractive  because  they  pay  full  tuition.  But 
a  certain  balance  must  be  kept.  There's  a 
point  at  which  you  have  too  many  foreign 
students,  and  the  Americans  begin  to  feel 
uncomfortable." 

WPI's  current  blend  of  foreign  and  U.S. 
students,  he  says,  is  well  within  the  de- 
sired boundaries.  "And  we  have  students 
from  all  over  the  globe,  not  just  from  a 
handful  of  countries.  They  bring  an  inter- 
national outlook  to  the  campus  and 
broaden  the  perspective  of  the  undergradu- 
ates. 

"Over  the  years,  we've  developed  a  rep- 
utation for  accepting  quality  students  from 
all  over  the  world  and  treating  them  well 
when  they  arrive.  Word  about  WPI  gets 
back  home." 

By  all  indications,  word  does  seem  to 


get  back  home  and,  in  a  couple  of  cases  at 
least,  WPI's  reputation  has  survived  more 
than  a  few  changes  of  season.  Mitsuo 
Kuwada,  a  student  from  Japan  who  gradu- 
ated last  year  with  a  degree  in  chemical 
engineering,  is  the  great-nephew  and 
adopted  son  of  Gompei  Kuwada  (Class  of 
'93),  the  official  keeper  of  the  original 
WPI  goat.  And  freshman  Jia-He  Mei, 
from  Beijing,  China,  is  the  grandson  of  Yi 
Chi  Mei,  Class  of  '14,  and  the  son  of  Tsu- 
Yen  Mei,  '49. 

While  these  examples  of  tradition  may 
be  isolated,  it  is,  in  more  general  terms,  a 
sense  of  past  that  makes  international  stu- 
dents such  a  valuable  asset  to  WPI. 

As  a  nation,  America  has  a  short  history 
when  compared  with  other  countries  of  the 
world,  many  of  which  established  them- 
selves thousands  of  years  ago.  Students 
from  these  foreign  lands  bring  with  them  a 
part  of  their  homeland,  a  part  of  the  past. 
For  some,  that  past  may  be  troubled,  but  it 
is  no  less  valuable  for  that. 

The  same  sense  of  past  makes  a  foreign 
student's  vision  of  the  future  equally  en- 
riching to  the  American  who  probes  it. 
Consider  Kiet  Hoang.  The  terrible  dreams 
he  had  about  the  secret  police  are  behind 
him.  Now  he  thinks  only  of  the  future.  As 
for  his  career,  he's  not  too  interested  in 
management  or  business.  Rather,  he  plans 
to  use  his  education  to  be  inventive,  to 
design  "helpful  things  for  society."  He's 
also  not  particularly  concerned  with 
money,  except  for  one  thing— he  does 
want  to  help  his  father. 


FEBRUARY  1984 


"Everybody  Gets  JF" 
into  the  Act" 
atWPI 

Not  since  the  1954  season  has  WPI  been 
undefeated  and  untied  in  football.  But  in 
1983,  as  the  season  wound  down,  the  En- 
gineers got  wound  up,  amassing  121 
points  in  their  last  three  games  against  a 
combined  total  of  22  for  RPI,  Hamilton 
and  Fairleigh  Dickinson. 

Coming  off  four  consecutive  winning 
seasons.  Coach  Bob  Weiss's  1983  cam- 
paign broke  the  record  books  wide  open: 
225  points  for  the  season  against  oppo- 
nents' 56;  total  offense  of  3,182  yards— 
nearly  400  per  game! 

There  were  personal  records,  too.  Au- 
burn's Mike  Carbone,  a  junior,  set  a  WPI 
scoring  record  with  78  points,  and  a  sin- 
gle-season mark  of  1,123  yards  gained, 
breaking  the  old  record  by  nearly  500 
yards!  He  also  racked  up  a  game  average 
of  140  yards.  And  senior  Randy  Mocadlo 
of  Vernon,  CT,  set  a  single-game  rushing 
record  of  239  yards  against  RPI,  scoring 
two  touchdowns  en  route. 


WPI  Finishes  Unbeaten  and  Untied 


The  scores:  Coast  Guard  35-14,  Colby 
30-7,  Lowell  7-0,  Fordham  22-6,  Bates 
10-7,  RPI  28-8,  Hamilton  42-0,  Fairleigh 
Dickinson  51-14. 

Probably  the  only  disappointment  of  the 
year  came  not  during  the  season,  but  on 
the  day  after  the  final  game  at  Fairleigh 
Dickinson.  Looking  for  its  first-ever 
NCAA  post-season  tournament  invitation, 
WPI  was  denied  its  bid  by  the  selection 
committee,  shattering  the  hopes  of  the  en- 
tire college,  yet  failing  to  dampen  com- 
pletely the  results  of  a  sparkling  season. 


Other  records: 

•  Only  undefeated,  untied  college  team  in 
New  England. 

•  Standings  in  NCAA  Division  III:  First 
in  New  England,  third  in  Northeast, 
ninth  in  the  nation,  and  placed  among 
the  top  three  teams  in  rushing  offense, 
rushing  defense,  and  scoring  defense. 

•  Team  of  the  Year  and  Coach  of  the  Year, 
in  a  vote  by  the  New  England  Football 
Writers  Association. 

•  Coach  of  the  Year,  Boston  Gridiron 
Club. 


ABRILLIA 


8       WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  Finishes  with  a  Flourish 


For  the  Fairleigh  Dickinson  game,  some 
400  fans— students,  alumni,  parents- 
made  the  trip  to  New  Jersey,  more  than 
tripling  the  hometown  rooters.  FD  seemed 
to  know  what  was  in  store  for  them— a 
51-14  blitzkrieg  by  the  Engineers. 

If  you  were  part  of  the  celebration  after- 
wards, you  know  the  thrill  and  the  pride  of 
victory.  And  you  know  the  closeness  of 


this  WPI  team— perhaps  the  greatest  ever. 
As  he  boarded  the  bus  for  New  Jersey 
with  his  players,  bound  for  perhaps  the 
biggest  game  of  his  life.  Bob  Weiss  was 
confident.  That  confidence  expressed  it- 
self in  his  feelings  for  the  team,  for  when 
someone  wished  him  success,  he  re- 
sponded simply,  "They'll  do  it.  These 
guys' 11  do  it.  They're  that  kind  of  team." 


IT  SEASON! 


FEBRUARY  1984 


THE 

EIGHT-MONTH 

ENERGIZER 

Students  are  finding  great  value  in  getting 
away  from  the  books  for  a  while — and  industry 
applauds  their  decision. 


By  Kenneth  \  icDonnell 

Rod  MacLellan  did  it  to  confirm  his 
career  plans.  Jeannine  Machon 
wanted  to  coalesce  the  bits  and 
pieces  shed  learned  in  class.  Diane 
Peterson  put  money  away  for  college  ex- 
penses. And  Enis  Konuk  did  it  to  get  a 
taste  of  industry . 

Whatever  their  reasons,  a  grow  ing  num- 
ber of  WPI  students  are  opting  for  extra 
time  in  college  in  exchange  for  the  kinds 
of  experiences  only  outside  emplo\ment 
can  provide.  It's  all  part  of  WETs  Cooper- 
ate e  Education  Program  (COOP),  an 
eight-year-old  arrangement  that  puts  the 
expertise  of  undergraduates  on  the  line 
e\ery  da>.  not  in  the  classroom,  but  in 
plants  and  laboratories  of  industry  and 
go\emment. 

.  irding  to  Bruce  VanAuken.  Man- 
ager of  S>  stems  and  Softw  are  Engineering 
at  Dennison  Manufacturing  Corp..  COOP 
benefits  employers  probably  as  much  as  it 
does  students.  *  We  get  technical^  trained 
though  normall)    inexperienced  people 


through  COOP."  he  says.  "The>  come  to 
us  knowing  how  to  do  fairly  sophisticated 
work,  but  the>  simply  haven't  had  much 
time  to  apply  what  the>  know.  COOP 
brings  all  these  loose  ends  together." 

Dennison.  of  Framingham.  MA.  is  a 
leading  manufacturer  of  pressure-sensitive 
and  metallic  labels,  thermal  transfer  prod- 
for  industry,  and  other  specialty 
goods.  Junior  computer  science  major 
Jeannine  Machon  of  Randolph.  MA.  is 
Dennison  s  most  recent  COOP  employee. 
She  worked  under  VanAuken  from  June 
1983  through  January  1984.  one  of  two 
eight-month  COOP  periods  each  >ear 
"M>  programming  assignment  at  Denni- 
son." she  sa\s.  "was  concrete  and  market- 
oriented— just  what  I  needed.  Now  I'm 
better  able  to  see  the  practical  possibilities 
of  m>  course  w  ork  and  pro  t 

Student  interest  in  COOP  seems  to  be 
based  on  two.  closeh  related  objectives. 
"WPI  is  so  intensive."'  sa>s  Joanne 
Shatkin.  a  junior  biology  and  biotechnol- 
og\  major  from  Cranston.  RI.  '"that  many 
of  us  need  a  break  at  some  point.  But  we 


don't  want  to  interrupt  our  education." 

Equally  important,  say  man>  COOP 
students,  is  their  desire  to  get  a  close-up 
look  at  the  profession  the>'re  studying  to 
enter.  For  most.  COOP  is  the  answer  to 
both  concerns. 

Joanne's  COOP  assignment  in  the  Mate- 
rials Protection  and  Biotechnical  Group  of 
the  U.S.  Arrm's  Natick  (MA)  Laborato- 
ries fulfilled  her  personal  and  career 
needs.  Natick  Labs  is  the  R&D  branch  of 
the  Army  that  develops  and  tests  the 
equipment  used  b\  the  nation's  foot  sol- 
diers—clothing, field  shelter,  freeze-dried 
foods  and  the  like.  As  a  member  of  a  small 
research  team.  Joanne  designed  coatings 
to  protect  water  purification  units  adapt- 
able to  various  combat  situations.  "I'd 
gotten  so  caught  up  in  my  college  work." 
she  recalls,  '"that  I  never  had  a  chance  to 
ask  m>self  what  I  was  actually  doing." 
Her  COOP  experience,  she  says,  gave  a 
sharper  focus  to  her  career  plans. 

Most  COOP  students  find  assignments 
in  Massachusetts,  but  for  those  whose 
COOP  experiences  take  them  far  beyond 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Jeannine  Machon,  a  computer 

science  major,  commuted  to 

Framingham:  "25  miles  and  24  lights." 


commuting  range  of  Worcester,  finding 
such  necessities  as  housing  becomes 
one  more  reminder  of  how  true  to  life 
COOP  is. 

Senior  Joan  Marler.  for  example,  a  ma- 
terials engineering  major  from  Rochester. 
NH.  was  hired  by  General  Electric  to  per- 
form materials  testing  and  manufacturing 
engineering  at  the  company's  Plainfield. 
CT.  plant.  For  Joan.  COOP  was  perhaps 
more  full  time  than  for  most,  since  it 
meant  relocating  for  her  eight  months 
away  from  WPI.  But  she  found  housing 
with  an  elderly  woman  not  far  from  GE. 
"It  was  just  fine."  she  says  now.  Socially, 
she  spent  time  with  her  GE  colleagues  dur- 
ing the  week:  and  on  many  weekends  she 
made  the  trip  back  to  her  Worcester 
friends  and  classmates. 

At  first,  she  recalls,  the  pace  at  GE  was 
slower  than  she'd  expected,  but  after  a 
short  time  on  the  job.  more  rigorous  as- 
signments came  her  way.  "I  was  treated 
like  a  full-time  employee."  she  says.  "You 
leam  quickly  how  to  get  things  done  in  a 
corporate  setting." 

Joan  had  changed  majors  just  before  go- 
ing on  COOP.  "My  GE  work  and  self- 
imposed  departure  from  everything  famil- 
iar gave  me  a  confident  sense  of  my  career 
goals  and  the  world  beyond  WPI."  she 
says. 

"Textbooks."  Joan  adds,  "present  the 
world  in  two-dimensional  terms.  But  as 
we  all  know,  the  world  is  three-dimen- 
sional. COOP  was  the  smartest  decision  of 
my  college  career." 

Bonnie  Blanchon.  '83  CHE.  who  now 
lives  in  Acton.  MA.  made  perhaps  as 
much  of  her  COOP  venture  as  any- 
one can  expect.  Like  roughly  one-third  of 
all  COOP  students.  Bonnie  participated  in 
not  one  but  two  COOP  periods,  first  at 
Procter  &  Gamble's  Cincinnati.  OH.  plant 
and  later  at  the  Jaffrey.  NH.  manufactur- 
ing facility  of  Millipore  Corp.  At  P&G. 

Martin  Hopkins,  '83  CE,  on  the  job  at 
Morgan  Construction. 


Bonnie  was  in  consumer  research,  testing 
products  to  support  advertising  claims. 
And  at  Millipore  she  developed  synthetic 
membranes  for  use  primarily  by  the  medi- 
cal profession. 

Upon  graduating.  Bonnie  found  that,  in 
job  recruiting.  COOP  had  been  every  bit 
as  important  as  her  degree.  She  was  of- 
fered a  job  and  is  now  working  in  the 
membrane  engineering  section  of  Milli- 
pore's  Bedford.  MA.  facility.  "This  posi- 
tion ties  my  work  to  R&D."  she  says,  "but 
I  also  interface  with  business,  a  fusion  that 
suits  me  well."  She  also  likes  Millipore 's 
industrial  mission.  "It  rewards  effort,  it 
teaches  you  how  to  get  along  with  people, 
and  it  lets  you  interact  with  the  push*  of 
manufacturing  and  the  theory  of  R&D." 

Bonnie  was  Millipore 's  first  COOP  stu- 
dent assigned  to  the  Jaffrey  plant.  Says 
Thomas  Lavin.  Production  Manager  of  In- 
dustrial Products  at  Jaffrey.  "To  Milli- 
pore—and  many  other  companies.  I  imag- 
ine—COOP  is  a  vital  recruiting  tool.  We 


can  look  at  potential  employees  under  ac- 
tual work  situations  and  pressures,  and  the 
students  can  do  the  same  with  us— with 
little  down-side  risk  to  anyone." 

"WPI  COOP  students."  adds  David 
DeWitt.  Millipore  s  Production  Manager 
of  Medical  Devices,  "seem  to  want  posi- 
tions where  they  can  go  in  and  "get  their 
hands  dim.'  We're  often  in  a  fight-fire  sit- 
uation at  Jaffrey.  and  we  need  to  know 
how  well  a  young  individual  can  relate  to 
our  other  350  people  and  stand  up  under 
pressure  from,  for  instance,  an  old  codger 
who  might  say.  Don't  bother  me.  young- 
ster'"' 

In  large  measure,  says  Lavin.  Milli- 
pore "s  endorsement  of  the  COOP  Program 
is  a  reflection  of  Program  Director  John  R. 
Farley's  knack  for  matching  the  needs  of 
employers  and  students.  "By  visiting  our 
facilities."  says  Lavin.  "John  gets  to  know 
what  we  do.  how  we  work  and  what  we 
expect  from  our  employees." 

Currently,  says  Farley.  '68  CHE.  some 


FEBRUARY  NS4        11 


John  Farley,  '68  CHE,  directs  the 
program:  "95  percent  of  our  COOP 
firms  employ  alumni." 


60  students  are  on  COOP  assignments. 
More  than  100  are  signed  up  for  the  up- 
coming June-January  period.  Since  taking 
over  the  program  in  1979,  he  has  seen  the 
number  of  students  registered  nearly  dou- 
ble. At  this  rate,  he  adds,  the  number 
could  double  again  before  1990. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  ledger,  about  55 
companies,  nearly  one-third  of  them  out- 
side of  Massachusetts,  are  involved  in  the 
program.  But,  says  Farley,  corporate  com- 
mitment is  down  considerably  today,  due 
to  the  recession  of  1982.  "With  more  and 
more  students  showing  interest,"  he  says, 
"we're  always  eager  to  speak  with  pro- 
spective COOP  firms— especially  in  light 
of  the  program's  benefits  to  employers." 
Alumni,  he  adds,  are  represented  in  about 
95  percent  of  WPI's  COOP  companies. 

According  to  Farley,  60  percent  of 
COOP  students  are  mechanical  or  electri- 
cal engineering  majors,  with  the  balance 
coming  from  computer  science,  chemical 
and  civil  engineering,  and  a  few  from  the 
sciences. 

Few  requirements  face  students  inter- 


ested in  COOP.  They  must  be  full-time 
juniors  or  seniors,  maintain  satisfactory 
academic  progress  and  receive  approval 
from  their  academic  advisors.  They  pay  no 
tuition  during  their  COOP  assignment  and 
are  compensated  by  their  employers,  but 
academic  credit  is  not  given  for  their 
efforts. 

Like  Bonnie  Blanchon,  Martin  Hopkins, 
'83  CE,  of  Worcester,  took  full  advantage 
of  his  two  COOP  assignments.  Following 
his  sophomore  year,  he  went  with  Worces- 
ter's Riley  Stoker  Corp.  as  a  programmer 
in  its  structural  engineering  department. 
He  later  worked  part-time  for  Riley  while 
back  in  school. 

Today.  Martin  is  assistant  to  the  director 
of  computer  integrated  manufacturing  at 
Morgan  Construction.  Worcester,  where 
he  spent  his  second  COOP.  On  assignment 
in  Morgan's  manufacturing  engineering 
department,  he  was  able,  even  as  a  COOP 
employee,  to  cross  departmental  lines  and 
assume  plenty  of  responsibility. 

"That  experience  was  so  beneficial  to 
my  career."  he  now  says.  Not  only  did  the 


* 


»   I 


giant  rolling  mills  manufacturer  hire  him 
("Actually,  my  job  offers  outnumbered 
the  rejections."  he  says),  but  he  took  on 
more  meaningful  duties  right  away  than  he 
had  ever  expected  to. 

"Whether  or  not  you  find  a  job  with 
your  COOP  employer,"  he  adds,  "your  re- 
sume will  undoubtedly  be  stronger  for  the 
experience." 

One  potential  dilemma  for  COOP 
students  is  the  stipulation  that  they 
prolong  their  academic  career.  One 
COOP  period  of  employment  means  an 
extra  two  terms  (14  weeks)  at  WPI  to  al- 
low students  time  to  complete  course 
work,  projects  and  the  Competency  Exam- 
ination. Two  COOP  periods  add  a  full 
year. 

"It's  definitely  something  to  consider," 
says  Joanne  Shatkin.  But,  she  contends, 
"too  many  students  want  to  rush  through 
college,  get  that  sheepskin  and  jump  into  a 
job.  How  many  understand  what  they're 
getting  into?  And  why." 

"Take  the  time,"  counsels  Martin 
Hopkins.  "The  dividends  will  come  in 
more  and  better  job  offers." 

Bonnie  Blanchon  of  Millipore  concurs. 
"Don't  be  put  off  by  the  extra  time  in  col- 
lege that  goes  along  with  COOP.  You'll  be 
opening  yourself  up  to  new  opportuni- 
ties—both in  college  and  later." 

Junior  Enis  Konuk  found  the  payoff 
back  in  the  classroom  following  his 
COOP.  The  Turkish  electrical  engineering 
major  wrote  software  for  control  systems 
at  BTU  Engineering,  Inc.,  a  maker  of 
semiconductors  located  in  Billerica,  MA. 
"COOP  is  helping  me  digest  the  course 
work  I  completed  before  going  out.  And 
classes  and  projects  are  more  relevant." 

Richard  A.  Zeccola  of  IBM,  echoes 
Enis'  viewpoint.  Zeccola  is  Project  Man- 
ager of  Printer  Quality  and  Reliability  at 
IBM's  Endicott.  NY.  facility.  He  is  also  a 
COOP  recruiter.  IBM.  he  says,  looks  to 

EE  Major  Rod  MacLellan  writing  software 
at  Sprague  Electric  Company. 


12        WPI  JOURNAL 


COOP  students  for  fresh  ideas  and  to 
question  existing  company  methods. 
"We've  had  three  WPI  COOP  students  at 
our  Endicott  plant,"  he  says,  "and  we're 
batting  a  thousand." 

IBM,  Zeccolla  reports,  recruits  students 
who  are  technically  prepared,  mature  and 
ready  to  work  on  a  team.  "We  find  all 
those  qualities  in  the  WPI  students  we 
hire,  plus  the  ability  to  grasp  problems  and 
to  present  themselves  professionally." 
WPI's  emphasis  on  student  projects,  he 
believes,  is  a  key  source  of  this  capability. 
"Our  biggest  problem,"  he  concludes,  "is 
that  we  can't  hire  enough  WPI  students." 

Diane  Peterson's  COOP  experience 
challenged  and  rewarded  her  in  much  the 
same  way  that  it  has  other  students.  Last 
year,  as  a  junior,  the  Copiague,  NY,  com- 
puter science  major  designed  a  mathemati- 
cal simulation  of  a  military  defensive 
probe  being  developed  at  the  Westboro, 
MA,  plant  of  GTE  Corp.  "It  gave  me  a 
chance  to  apply  what  I'd  learned  in  class- 


am/  put  money  in  the  bank  for  college." 

Rod  MacLellan,  too,  found  the  financial 
payoff  of  COOP  especially  timely:  he  was 
married  recently.  Rod  finished  his  COOP 
in  January  at  Sprague  Electric  Co.,  a  semi- 
conductor manufacturer  and  major  Wor- 
cester employer.  His  assignment  there, 
writing  software  for  monitoring  semicon- 
ductor wafer  processing,  will  enable  him 
to  follow  a  number  of  career  directions  and 
help  him  better  define  his  curriculum  and 
project  goals  back  on  campus.  "It  was  a 
great  confidence  builder,"  he  adds. 

Michael  Ridinger,  Sprague's  Manager 
of  Device  Development,  was  Rod's  COOP 
supervisor.  "Our  COOP  students  work  on 
current  and  important  programs,"  he  says, 
"not  back-burner  projects.  They  are  hired 
as  technicians,  but  they  bring  with  them  an 
added  strength— an  engineering  approach 
to  problem  solving." 

Adds  Jerry  Bouchard,  Sprague's  Man- 
ager of  Technical  Services,  "We  look  for 
the  kind  of  people  who  want  to  work  at 
Sprague.  We  look  for  character,  not  just 
technical  skills." 


For  junior  Diane  Peterson  (left),  COOP 
paid  off  in  practical  and  financial  terms. 
Enis  Konuk,  '85  EE  (above),  got  a  close 
look  at  the  semiconductor  industry. 

Today,  about  1 ,000  colleges  and  univer- 
sities offer  some  form  of  cooperative  edu- 
cation. Most  are  a  curriculum  option,  but 
some  are  mandatory  and  built  into  the  in- 
stitution's overall  educational  program. 

Both  systems,  of  course,  have  their  ad- 
vocates. Thus,  we  can  ask  whether  WPI's 
COOP  program— which  is  strictly  by 
choice— should  be  more  regimented. 
Should  it  be  mandatory? 

Without  exception,  those  interviewed 
for  this  story— students  and  employers 
alike— responded  to  this  question  with  a 
resounding  NO.  But  at  the  same  time, 
most  students  heartily  recommend  COOP 
to  their  classmates,  and  employers  regard 
COOP  as  vital  to  their  long-term  recruiting 
and  everyday  operations. 

"We  look  for  students  who  want  the 
COOP  experience,"  says  Millipore's  Tom 
Lavin,  "not  those  who  have  no  choice." 


FEBRUARY  1984       13 


Off  and  Running 

In  a  moving  tribute,  WPI  inducts  eight  of  its 
greatest  sportsmen  into  the  new  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame. 


In  his  time,  the  late  Harry  L.  Dadmun,  Class  of  1891,  "Wor- 
cester's Fastest  Human,"  was  a  world-class  runner.  He  won  the 
1891  National  AAU  1/2-mile  Championship  with  a  time  of 
1 :59.2,  a  WPI  record  that  stood  for  60  years.  He  also  won  the 
French  National  Championship  and  dominated  WPI  opponents  in 
every  race  from  100  yards  to  the  1/2-mile  and  the  hurdles. 

Dadmun  and  seven  others  were  inducted,  as  charter  members, 
into  WPI's  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame.  The  induction  came  at  a  dinner 
ceremony  attended  by  more  than  200  at  Homecoming  Weekend  in 
October. 

Six  alumni,  a  coach  and  a  former  athletic  director  constitute  the 
membership  of  the  Hall  of  Fame,  an  idea  conceived  a  decade  ago 
to  honor  the  extraordinary  athletic  contributions  made  during 
WPI's  more  than  100  years  of  intercollegiate  athletic  competition. 

Said  Ted  Coghlin,  '56,  who,  with  track  coach  Merl  Norcross, 
co-chaired  the  organizing  committee,  "The  dedicated  efforts  of 
POLY  CLUB  members,  the  Athletic  Department,  the  Class  of 
1959  and  many  other  volunteers  gave  life  to  this  long-overdue 
concept.  It's  been  a  team  effort  all-around." 

Dadmun's  fellow  inaugural  members  are  Thomas  W.  Berry, 
'24;  Albert  J.  Raslavsky,  '39;  Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40;  Henry 
W.  Nowick,  '56;  Edward  F  Cannon,  '68;  Robert  W.  Pritchard, 
former  athletic  director  and  football  coach;  and  Charles  R. 
McNulty,  a  WPI  coach  for  37  years. 

"Selection  of  members,"  said  Norcross,  "is  based  on  their 
athletic  ability,  integrity,  sportsmanship  and  character,  with  spe- 
cial emphasis  on  their  athletic  contributions  to  their  WPI  teams." 
In  addition,  membership  may  be  offered  to  non-athletes  who  have 
provided  distinguished  service  to  WPI  sports— for  example, 
coaches,  faculty  and  other  alumni.  Any  member  of  the  WPI  com- 
munity, past  or  present,  may  nominate  candidates.  Induction  of 
additional  members  is  planned  on  an  annual  basis. 

Thomas  W.  Berry,  '24,  earned  two  letters  in  football  and  three 


in  baseball,  but  is  better  known  for  his  exploits  on  the  basketball 
court.  He  was  a  two-time  All- New  England  center  when  the 
Engineers  were  New  England  champions  in  the  1919-20  and 
1920-21  seasons.  He  played  all  but  two  minutes  of  the  team's 
games  in  his  last  three  years.  He  died  in  1959. 

Albert  J.  Raslavsky,  '39,  was  also  a  three-sport  man.  He 
played  end  in  the  Engineer's  first  undefeated  football  season  of 
1938.  In  basketball  he  captained  the  team  and  made  All-New 
England  in  his  senior  year.  That  season  WPI  went  13-3  and  was 
ranked  in  the  Top  10  in  the  region.  He  earned  four  baseball 
letters,  serving  as  captain  in  his  senior  year.  As  a  sophomore,  he 
received  offers  from  the  Pittsburgh  Pirates  and  the  Detroit  Tigers 
to  play  professionally.  He  is  currently  a  plant  superintendent  at 
H.  H.  Brown  Shoe  Company  in  Worcester. 

Raymond  J.  Forkey,  '40,  combined  with  Raslavsky  to  give 
WPI  some  of  its  best  football,  basketball  and  baseball  teams.  He 
is  the  only  WPI  athlete  to  earn  12  letters. 

Forkey  captained  the  football  team  in  his  senior  year  and  at 
quarterback  was  a  pivotal  force  on  the  1938  undefeated  team.  In 
basketball  he  helped  the  Engineers  compile  a  four-year  47-17 
record,  including  the  13-3  team  of  1938-39.  He  also  captained 
the  baseball  team.  Forkey  is  still  an  avid  golfer  and  has  done  well 
in  many  local  tournaments.  Currently  a  WPI  Trustee,  he  is  the 
retired  president  of  Coppus  Engineering  of  Worcester. 

Henry  ("Hank")  Nowick,  '56,  was  another  three-sport  stand- 
out. In  football  he  led  the  Engineers  to  their  undefeated  1954 
season.  That  year  he  was  named  to  the  Chemical  Engineering 
News  All- America  team.  In  basketball  he  captained  the  team  in 
his  senior  season  and  established  a  single-game  scoring  record 
with  33  points.  He  was  also  the  leading  pitcher  on  the  baseball 
team,  compiling  a  10-2  record  in  four  years.  He  is  currently  a 
senior  engineering  specialist  for  Monsanto  Corp.,  in  Indian 
Orchard,  MA. 


Dadmun,  '91 


Berry,  '24 


Raslavsky,  '39 


Forkey,  '40 


14       WPI  JOURNAL 


Two-time  All  America  soccer  star  Edward  F  Cannon,  '68  CE  MNS,  at  the  Hall  of  Fame  induction  ceremonies.  Offering  congratula- 
tions, from  left  to  right,  are  Peter  Horsttnann,  '55  ME,  Mark  Mandel,  Sports  Information  Director,  and  Alfred  E.  Barry,  '57 ME. 


Edward  F.  Cannon,  '68,  is  currently  assistant  athletic  director, 
a  physics  lecturer  and  the  highly  successful  soccer  coach  at  St. 
Anselm's  College.  At  WPI  he  earned  All- America  soccer  honors 
in  1967  and  '68,  when  just  33  players  in  the  nation,  regardless  of 
division,  received  that  distinction.  During  his  career  at  WPI  the 
soccer  team  twice  played  in  the  NCAA  Regional  Tournament.  He 
was  also  an  excellent  basketball  player  and  was  selected  to  the 
Worcester  Holiday  Tournament  all-star  team  in  the  1967-68  sea- 
son; WPI  beat  Assumption  and  went  on  to  win  the  tournament. 

Robert  W.  Pritchard's  name  was  synonymous  with  WPI  ath- 
letics for  31  years.  He  was  the  school's  athletic  director  from 
1952-78  and  head  football  coach  from  1947-66.  Under  his  lead- 
ership WPI's  athletic  program  flourished.  Among  his  most  note- 
worthy accomplishments:  his  1954  undefeated  football  team, 
which  earned  him  a  National  Coach  of  the  Year  nomination;  his 


role  in  the  planning  of  Harrington  Auditorium;  his  induction  into 
the  National  Association  of  Collegiate  Directors  of  Athletics  Hall 
of  Fame;  his  role  as  founder  of  the  NCAAs  Drug  Education 
Committee;  and  his  ECAC  James  Lynah  Award,  for  his  contribu- 
tions in  intercollegiate  athletics.  He  passed  away  in  1978. 

Charles  R.  McNulty,  who  serves  as  WPI's  coordinator  of 
athletics  and  scheduling  director,  has  been  a  coaching  mainstay  at 
the  school  for  more  than  37  years.  He  coached  football  from 
1945-81 ,  was  head  basketball  coach  from  1947-66  and  was  head 
baseball  coach  from  1946  until  he  relinquished  the  position  last 
year.  His  other  honors  include  the  1981  Jack  Butterfield  Award, 
for  his  devotion  to  the  improvement  of  college  baseball;  and  his 
1968  award  for  "Contribution  to  Basketball,"  presented  by  the 
Worcester  County  Basketball  Coaches,  Sportswriters  and  Sports- 
casters  Association,  an  organization  that  he  helped  create. 


Nowick,  '56 


Cannon,  '68 


Pritchard 


McNulty 


FEBRUARY  1984        15 


A  SHOT 

IN  THE  DARK 


Lcirry  Katzman  and  Marshall  Levine:  Putting  a  lid  on  home  heating  costs. 


The  scene  is  a  common  one:  an  engi- 
neer buried  in  a  foot-high  stack  of 
technical  reports  on  some  sliver  of 
an  esoteric  field  of  interest.  And  not  sur- 
prisingly, he's  never  heard  of  the  author,  in 
this  case  a  Lawrence  Katzman  of  the  Bos- 
ton area. 

The  reader  is  Marshall  Levine.  '55  ME. 
of  Wayne,  PA.  It's  the  late  1970s.  He's 
reading  everything  the  National  Bureau  of 
Standards  (NBS)  can  unearth  for  him  on 
the  subject  of  energy  conservation  in  resi- 
dential buildings. 

Levine 's  interest  in  all  this  is  honest 
enough.  His  career  has  been  distinctive, 
working  at  the  time  under  contract  to  the 
Commonwealth  of  Pennsylvania,  examin- 
ing how  fuel  oil  dealers  can  best  benefit 
from  the  developing  market  for  home 
heating  retrofit  and  replacement  equip- 
ment. 

He'd  done  computer  modeling  of  retro- 
fit strategies  and  payback  potential  to  fore- 
cast homeowner  response.  He'd  served  on 
the  Governor's  Energy  Council  and  was 
chairman  of  the  Philadelphia  Residential 


Energy  Task  Force.  All  this  during  the 
highly  charged  era  of  OPEC  scares  and 
skyrocketing  energy  costs.  And  earlier, 
he'd  developed  highly  sophisticated  blood 
analysis  technologies  for  the  medical  pro- 
fession. 

"The  elegance  and  excitement  of  high 
technology,"  he  now  says,  "was  intoxicat- 
ing, but  often  it  seemed  to  serve  relatively 
few  people  directly." 

Sensing  a  need  both  to  solve  people's 
everyday  problems  and  to  apply  his  exper- 
tise, he  and  a  clergy  friend  formed  in  1979 
the  Institute  for  Human  Development 
(IHD).  a  nonprofit  community  service 
group  based  in  inner-city  Philadelphia. 
IHD's  Burner  Bank  furnace  reconditioning 
center  employed  more  than  100  local  resi- 
dents. Several  other  states  are  now  follow- 
ing the  IHD  lead. 

"Lots  of  gadgets  were  appearing  on  the 
market  about  then,  boasting  of  energy  sav- 
ings far  in  excess  of  what  logic  would  tell 
you."  Besides,  he  says,  lots  of  government 
fuel  subsidy  dollars  were  going  up  the 
chimney  through  the  decaying,  inefficient 


furnaces  of  the  neighborhoods.  "The 
Burner  Bank  created  warmth  two  ways — 
by  employing  people  and  by  heating  their 
homes  for  less." 

Enter  Larry  Katzman.  The  reports 
Levine  had  poured  over  at  NBS  were  the 
result  of  a  four-year  study  Katzman  had 
done  of  residential  oil-fired  heating  system 
performance.  And  at  Walden  Research  of 
Wilmington,  MA,  he'd  developed  stan- 
dardized NBS  tests  for  comparing  the  per- 
formance of  competing  furnaces. 

Levine 's  reading  told  him  right  away 
that  Katzman  was  the  only  real  authority 
he'd  found  on  the  subject  of  home  energy 
conservation.  He  had  to  meet  this  Larry 
Katzman. 

"Marshall  called  me  in  late  1979," 
Katzman  recalls.  "He  was  the  only  person 
who'd  ever  contacted  me  about  my  work." 

The  rest  of  the  story  reads  like  an  entre- 
preneurial Wlw's  Who.  Their  combined 
experience  and  interest  in  energy  issues 
and  desire  to  form  a  small,  private  firm 
quickly  led  to  formation  of  Thermal  Data 
Corp.  Combining  their  modeling,  com- 
puter and  marketing  skills,  they  developed 
the  Residential  Energy  Computer  (REC). 
a  self-contained  sales  tool  designed  to  pro- 
mote residential  energy  conservation  with 
a  structured,  unbiased  presentation. 

In  just  15  months,  their  initial  $4,000 
investment  jumped  to  sales  in  excess  of 
$1  million.  Today,  more  than  1,200  units 
are  in  use  by  heating  contractors,  fuel  sup- 
pliers and  energy  consultants  coast  to 
coast.  The  unit  is  carried  in  an  attache  case 
by  a  salesperson  and  is  programmed  to 
show  dollar  savings  and  paybacks  for  a 
variety  of  heating  alternatives,  retrofits 
and  upgradings. 

"The  REC  is  simple,  it  builds  a  low- 
cost  econometric  model,  it  answers  the 
questions  of  the  homeowner  in  just  a  few 
minutes— and  it's  ethical,"  says  Katzman. 

Adds  Levine,  "Marketing  has  always 
been  a  problem  for  contractors  and  trades- 
men. REC  is  the  catalyst  for  sparking  the 
gap  between  product  and  market." 

And,  oh  yes,  to  complete  the  story— 
only  after  a  few  of  their  earliest  conversa- 
tions did  Levine  and  Katzman  discover 
that  they  are  both  WPI  graduates.  A  CHE 
major.  Katzman  graduated  in  1963. 

But  that's  not  all.  Hard  as  it  may  be  to 
believe,  both  were  active  brothers  in  the 
same  WPI  fraternity— AEt! 

Says  Levine,  "There  was  instantly  a 
trust  between  us.  a  mutual  recognition  of 
capability  and  judgment  that  WPI  had 
helped  mold." 

Sometimes  a  shot  in  the  dark  turns  out 
that  way. 


lo       WT1  JOURNAL 


Type  theory  defines  personality  as  the  way  you  prefer  to  see 

and  react  to  the  world.  Does  that  affect  the  way  you  work? 

Common  sense—and  the  theory— say  yes. 

By  Mary  Ruth  Yoe 


Personality's  role  in  the  work-place  is  easy  to  acknowledge, 
hard  to  quantify.  The  successful  librarian  has  one  type  of 
personality,  most  people  would  agree;  the  successful  car 
salesperson  another.  Therefore,  shouldn't  it  be  possible  to  use  a 
personality  test  to  match  job  with  applicant? 

Such  tests  are  available,  yet  few  businesses  use  them  in  hiring. 
"Their  degree  of  job-related  validity  is  not  high,"  argues  Mary  L. 
Tenopyr,  division  manager  for  resources  and  systems  at  American 
Telephone  and  Telegraph,  "so  they  aren't  used."  Furthermore, 
the  Equal  Employment  Opportunity  Commission  supports  strict 
regulations,  trying  to  ensure  that  screening  tests  are  valid  and  do 
not  discriminate  against  minorities.  Employers,  in  turn,  shy  away 
from  using  personality  inventories  in  hiring— avoiding  both  ex- 
pensive validation  studies  and  possible  lawsuits. 

Once  people  are  hired  and  in  the  work-place,  however,  person- 
ality's effect  on  performance  can  be  examined.  Larger  organiza- 
tions, those  offering  their  employees  in-house  career  develop- 
ment counseling,  often  use  personality  tests  in  team  building  or  as 
an  advancement  tool,  especially  for  managers.  "An  ideal  man- 
ager, if  there  is  such  a  thing,"  says  Thomas  Stutzman,  a  professor 
in  the  School  of  Management  at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute, 
"has  the  perceptual  skills  to  recognize  the  variables  in  people  and 
in  the  environment  and  to  vary  his  or  her  style  accordingly." 

Contemporary  theory  of  management  styles,  adds  John  Cle- 
mens, a  former  marketing  executive  for  the  Pillsbury  Company 
who  is  now  an  associate  professor  of  management  at  Hartwick 
College,  "defines  management  as  accomplishing  something 
through  others.  That  means  a  leader  must  command  a  whole 
range  of  leadership  styles,  from  wholly  democratic  through  dicta- 
torial . 

"There  are,  of  course,  real  problems  with  being  a  chameleon," 


Clemens  continues.  "Personality  is  a  given.  It  is  possible  to  make 
small,  2  or  3  degree  navigational  changes,  but  not  to  change 
course  entirely."  Still,  modern  management  places  a  premium  on 
interpersonal  skills— and  on  such  navigational  changes. 

Enter  a  little-known  personality  inventory  with  a  loyal  band  of 
enthusiasts:  the  Myers-Briggs  Type  Indicator  (MBTI),  based  on 
the  work  of  two  women,  Katharine  C.  Briggs  and  her  daughter, 
Isabel  Briggs  Myers.  About  the  time  of  World  War  I,  Katharine 
Briggs  began  to  study  the  similarities  and  differences  in  human 
personalities.  Then  in  1923,  she  learned  from  reading  the  English 
translation  of  Carl  Jung's  Psychological  Types  that  her  scheme  of 
personality,  developed  independently,  was  similar  to  Jung's. 

Everyone  intrinsically  prefers  a  certain  way  of  perceiving  and 
judging  the  surrounding  world:  that  is  the  basis  of  Jung's  typol- 
ogy. His  typology  heavily  influenced  Katharine  Briggs's  own 
work,  an  influence  that  went  against  the  academic  grain.  (While 
both  women  were  well  educated— the  daughter  graduating  from 
Swarthmore  at  age  16 — neither  had  done  graduate  work  in  psy- 
chology.) 

"Although  Freud  and  Jung  were  both  given  honorary  degrees 
by  Clark  University  before  World  War  I,"  says  O.W.  Lacy,  a 
clinical  psychologist  who  is  chief  of  career  planning,  testing,  and 
placement  at  Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  "the  science  of 
individual  differences  as  it  grew  up  in  America  remained  largely 
empirical  as  opposed  to  psychodynamic  in  theory,  at  least  through 
World  War  II."  Lacy  pauses,  then  confesses: 

"Jung  was  a  pariah  in  academic  circles.  I  used  to  read  Jung  as  if 
he  were  Henry  Miller."  Even  when  psychodynamic  theory  crept 
into  U.S.  graduate  schools,  "the  overwhelming  training  and  em- 
phasis was  Freudian."  Many  people.  Lacy  explains,  had  diffi- 


FEBRUARY  1984       I 


DO  YOUR  INTERESTS  FLOW  MAINLY  TO. 


DO  YOU  PREFER  TO  PERCEIVE. 


.  .  .  THE  OUTER 
WORLD  OF  ACTIONS, 
OBJECTS,  AND 
PERSONS? 


.  .  THE  INNER 
WORLD  OF 
CONCEPTS  AND 
IDEAS? 


.  THE  IMMEDIATE, 

REAL,  PRACTICAL 

FACTS  OF 

EXPERD2NCE 

AND  LIFE? 


. . . THE 
POSSIBILITD2S, 

RELATIONS, 

AND  MEANINGS 

OF  EXPERIENCES? 


culty  witji  some  Jungian  ideas,  including  his  theory  of  a  collective 
unconscious.  The  result  was  "a  general  ignorance  about  Jung." 

In  1942  Isabel  Myers,  who  had  caught  her  mother's  enthusiasm 
for  a  theory  of  types,  began  work  on  a  research  tool  to  indicate 
personality  preferences  or  types.  She  would  try  out  her  question- 
naire on  family  and  friends,  then  revise  it  and  try  again.  "Isabel 
Myers  was  working  independently  of  an  academic  career  track," 
notes  Lacy.  "She  did  have  a  marvelous  old-boy  network  because 
her  father  had  been  director  of  the  National  Bureau  of  Standards, 
and  he  had  some  clout."  Through  her  father,  for  example,  Myers 
convinced  a  medical  school  dean  to  let  her  test  his  students,  a 
study  that  expanded  to  produce  MBTI  results  for  more  than  5,000 
medical  students  and  10,000  nurses. 

Henry  Chauncey,  then  head  of  Educational  Testing  Service, 
learned  about  the  indicator  and  proposed  that  ETS  buy  and  dis- 
tribute Myers's  test  for  research  purposes.  But  not  everyone  at 
ETS  was  as  impressed  with  Myers's  work  as  Chauncey,  and 
although  ETS  published  Isabel  Myers's  MBTI  manual  in  1962, 
the  inventory  was  effectively  buried  there. 

Then  in  1975,  distribution  rights  were  transferred  to  Consulting 
Psychologists  Press— which  sold  a  million  copies  within  two 
years— and  the  Center  for  Applications  of  Psychological  Type 
was  organized  to  coordinate  MBTI  research.  Today  the  national 
association  of  MBTI  users  has  1 ,900  members,  including  college 
and  university  researchers  in  personality,  career  counselors,  ther- 
apists, and  a  sizable  number  of  management  consultants. 

President  of  the  Northeast  Association  for  Psychological  Type, 
SueLynn  (her  whole  name)  is  also  a  consultant  in  organizational 
and  management  development  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Hospital.  On 
a  bright  early-winter  afternoon,  she  meets  with  four  mid-  and 
upper-level  hospital  managers.  The  four  have  already  completed 
the  166-question  indicator  (a  paper-and-pencil,  multiple-choice 
inventory),  and  SueLynn  will  soon  hand  back  the  results— "an 
identification,  not  a  measurement,  of  personality"— but  first  she 
explains  the  theory  of  types. 

"Humans  have  two  basic  mental  processes,"  she  begins,  "per- 
ception, or  perceiving  information,  and  judging,  or  coming  to  a 
conclusion  about  the  information  gathered."  She  pauses.  "Take  a 
minute  and  write  your  name  using  the  hand  you  ordinarily  don't 


use."  The  four  obey.  The  resulting  signature,  of  course,  is  both 
harder  to  pen  and  harder  to  decipher.  "Just  as  you've  been  born 
with  a  preference  for  handedness,  you  have  an  inborn  preference 
for  the  way  you  perceive  the  world."  Still,  everyone  can  write 
with  the  unfavored  hand;  in  the  same  way,  type  preferences  indi- 
cate areas  of  strength  and  areas  for  growth.  With  that  point  estab- 
lished, SueLynn  begins. 

Sensing  (S)  types  gather  information  by  using  their  five  senses. 
They  pay  attention  to  facts,  details,  rules,  and  regulations.  They 
are  practical,  down-to-earth,  "reality-based."  Firmly  grounded  in 
the  here  and  now,  S  types  talk  about  the  past  and  the  present;  their 
future  is  short-term,  six  months  to  two  years  ahead.  They  learn 
best  in  1-2-3  steps,  and  they  base  their  decisions  on  experience. 
Of  the  general  population,  about  75  percent  are  thought  to  be 
sensors. 

Intuitives  (N)  types,  on  the  other  hand,  use  facts  as  a  jumping- 
off  point  into  possibilities,  options,  alternatives.  "They're  always 
making  connections,"  says  SueLynn.  Intuitives  speak  in  generali- 
ties, are  most  concerned  with  concepts,  theories,  world  views. 
Although  intuitives  are  good  problem  solvers,  even  after  the 
problem  is  solved  they  continue  to  proffer  new  solutions.  N  types 
are  always  looking  to  the  future,  and  they  learn  the  concept  first, 
then  support  it  with  facts. 

"What  does  this  mean  in  a  work  situation?"  SueLynn  asks  her 
audience.  Several  things.  For  one,  an  S  feels  most  comfortable 
with  a  project  when  it  is  immediately  applicable,  obviously  use- 
ful, while  Ns  more  easily  take  on  long-term  tasks.  These  prefer- 
ences also  influence  the  way  people  give  directions.  "The  N  will 
say,  'Send  a  letter  to  Ms.  Jones  about  our  meeting,' "  explains 
SueLynn.  "The  S  will  respond,  'But  what  do  I  say?'  The  S  wants 
directions,  examples,  specifics,  models. 

"On  the  other  hand,  an  S  manager  will  say,  'I  want  you  to 
do  this  project,  and  here's  how  I  want  you  to  do  it'  and  will  go  on 
to  list  step-by-step  instructions.  The  N  he's  instructing  will 
say,  'Why  does  S  want  me  to  do  it?  He's  got  it  figured  out 
already.'  "  Nods  of  recognition  all  around  the  table. 

"The  next  two  types  have  to  do  with  judgment,"  SueLynn 
continues,  "or  how  a  person  comes  to  a  conclusion."  The  think- 
ing (T)  types  base  their  conclusions  on  logic  and  analysis.  Their 


II       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


DO  YOU  PREFER  TO  MAKE  DECISIONS. 


DO  YOU  PREFER  MOSTLY  TO  LIVE. 


.  .  .  OBJECTIVELY, 

IMPERSONALLY, 

CONSIDERING 

CAUSES  OF  EVENTS 

AND  WHERE 

DECISIONS  MAY  LEAD? 


.  .  .  SUBJECTIVELY 

AND  PERSONALLY, 

WEIGHING  VALUES  OF 

CHOICES  AND 

HOW  THEY  MATTER 

TO  OTHERS? 


style  is  impersonal— they  don't  take  into  account  how  a  decision 
will  affect  other  people.  What  they  do  require  of  a  decision  is  that 
it  "make  sense."  They  are  sure  of  their  reasons  for  a  particular 
course  of  action,  and  they  expect  that  others  can  justify  their 
decisions  in  the  same  way. 

Feeling  (F)  types  do  not  base  their  decisions  purely  on  emo- 
tions, as  the  name  seems  to  imply.  Rather,  they  are  also  con- 
cerned with  attitudes,  beliefs,  values,  morals,  and  convictions.  In 
making  a  decision,  they  worry  about  its  effect  on  other  people, 
and  they  tend  to  value  harmony  and  avoid  conflicts.  Unlike  Ts, 
feeling  types  often  cannot  give  "reasons  why"  they  have  made 
a  decision. 

The  decision-making  preference  is  apparently  the  only  one  with 
a  sex  bias.  Although  50  percent  of  the  general  population  are 
thinkers  and  50  percent  feelers,  men  account  for  at  least  60  per- 
cent of  the  thinkers,  while  women  make  up  at  least  60  percent  of 
the  feeling  type.  (This  fact  may  testify  to  the  influence  that  envi- 
ronment can  have  on  type,  or  it  may  point  to  an  inherent  sex 
difference.) 

On  the  job,  Ts  expect  to  be  recognized  for  their  competence; 
they  find  a  raise,  a  change  in  title,  or  a  bigger  desk  more  mean- 
ingful than  a  verbal  thank-you.  But  Fs  want  to  be  appreciated  for 
"who  they  are,  doing  a  job."  With  Fs,  says  SueLynn,  "a  manager 
should  use  the  words  'special'  and  'unique'  and  'thank  you,'  and 
should  use  them  often."  In  large  organizations,  these  differences 
can  be  the  root  of  morale  problems,  "because  in  most  administra- 
tions, the  top  managers  turn  out  to  be  Ts.  They  are,  of  course, 
very  satisfied,  because  they're  getting  all  kinds  of  T  rewards- 
responsibility,  big  salaries,  good  titles. 

"At  the  middle-management  level,  there  are  both  Ts  and  Fs. 
The  Ts  at  mid-level  are  more  dissatisfied,  because  fewer  T  re- 
wards are  available,  while  the  Fs  are  dissatisfied  because  the  Ts  at 
the  top  treat  them  like  functions,  not  people— a  T  thinks  that  if 
you  haven't  been  fired,  you  should  know  you're  doing  a  good 
job."  SueLynn's  audience  chuckles. 

The  bottom  level  of  a  bureaucracy,  she  continues,  is  typically 
filled  with  secretaries  and  clerks,  usually  women  and  therefore 
most  likely  to  be  Fs.  "They  are  very  dissatisfied  because  they're 
thought  of  as  machines.  Even  Ts  at  the  bottom  are  dissatisfied 


...  IN  A  DECISIVE, 

PLANNED, 

AND  ORDERLY  WAY, 

AIMING  TO  REGULATE 

AND 

CONTROL  EVENTS? 


because  there  are  no  T  rewards  except  their  paychecks." 

Whether  sensing  or  intuitive,  everyone  has  a  preferred  way  of 
perceiving;  likewise,  whether  a  thinking  or  feeling  type,  every- 
one also  has  a  favored  style  of  decision-making.  Some  people 
favor  information-gathering  over  decision-making,  and  vice 
versa.  According  to  type  theory,  the  favored  activity  will  be  used 
most  often  in  dealing  with  other  people. 

A  preference  for  judging  (J)  characterizes  about  50  percent  of 
the  population.  Whether  a  thinking  or  feeling  type,  a  J  enjoys 
completion.  Words  associated  with  this  type  include:  "wrap  up, 
finish  everything,  no  loose  ends,  organize."  They  make  lists, 
have  plans,  live  life  with  a  calendar.  Again,  nods  of  recognition 
from  the  four  managers  as  SueLynn  speaks.  "They  have  a  need  to 
be  productive  in  order  to  feel  good  about  themselves."  As  people 
who  like  to  be  in  control,  Js  decide,  then  act.  They  are  uncom- 
fortable with  sudden  upheavals,  and  must  plan  for  change.  There- 
fore a  manager  should  give  them  time  to  think  about  changes.  "In 
other  words,"  she  jokes,  "don't  tell  them  on  Friday  afternoon  that 
the  office  is  going  to  be  relocated  on  Monday." 

The  other  50  percent  prefer  information-gathering  to  decision- 
making. These  perceiving  (P)  types,  says  SueLynn,  "are  often 
accused— most  often  by  Js — of  not  being  able  to  make  a  decision. 
They  don't  want  to  make  a  decision."  Ps  keep  options  open.  They 
enjoy  seeing  the  other  side,  getting  new  information.  Although 
their  upsetting  habit  of  questioning  conventional  wisdom  often 
pushes  them  to  the  far  side  of  a  bureaucratic  organization,  Ps 
come  into  their  own  in  diagnosing  and  managing  a  crisis.  Com- 
pared to  Js,  perceptive  types  seem  more  spontaneous,  more  flexi- 
ble, more  adaptable.  (An  aside:  Of  all  the  types,  SueLynn  adds, 
Ps  "have  the  most  highly  adaptive  behavior— after  all,  they  have 
to  make  some  decisions,  in  order  to  get  through  school  and  in 
order  to  be  paid.") 

The  fourth  and  final  preference  expresses  an  individual's  world 
attitude.  Extroverting  (E)  types  prefer  to  relate  to  the  outer  world 
of  people  and  things— not  because  they  like  people  more  than 
their  introverting  (I)  counterparts,  SueLynn  cautions,  but  "be- 
cause they  need  to  talk  to  understand.  They  are  energized  by 
being  with  people."  E  types  make  up  about  75  percent  of  the 
population.  Introverting  (I)  types,  in  contrast,  are  energized  by 


FEBRUARY  1984       III 


being  alone.  They  relate  most  easily  to  an  inner  world  of  self  and 
ideas;  "they  go  inside  to  think."  Articulate,  they  usually  think 
before  they  speak.  (Again,  some  adaptation  is  obviously  required 
on  the  part  of  I  types.) 

Now  SueLynn  is  ready  to  show  the  four  managers  how  to 
interpret  their  inventory  results.  Each  person,  she  explains,  has  a 
preference  for  E  or  I,  S  or  N,  T  or  F,  and  J  or  P— in  other  words, 
each  person  will  fall  into  one  of  16  four-letter  categories,  such  as 
ESTJ  or  INTP.  But  that  isn't  the  whole  story.  Each  of  those  four 
preferences  falls  along  a  scale  from  0  to  60;  0  is  the  dividing  line 
between  a  preference  and  its  opposite,  and  thus  scores  between  0 
and  15  mean  that  a  person  may  actually  shift  back  and  forth 
between  two  opposing  types. 

"So  we  should  try  to  categorize  people  and  treat  them  accord- 
ingly?" asks  one  of  SueLynn's  listeners.  "Well,  yes  and  no,"  she 
replies.  At  this  point,  the  tendency  is  to  categorize.  Researchers 
have  found  that  certain  MBTI  types  seem  to  flock  to  certain 
professions. 

When  Dragnet's  Sgt.  Joe  Friday  pressed  for  "the  facts,  ma'am, 
just  the  facts,"  he  was  being  true  to  type.  STs,  who  have  what 
SueLynn  calls  "a  very  firm  personality,"  are  often  police  officers 
or  members  of  the  military.  SFs,  "who  pay  attention  to  facts,  yet 
are  people  oriented,"  make  good  social  workers,  caretakers, 
nurses,  ministers,  psychologists  (not  psychiatrists,  who  are  often 
NFs),  and  physicians  noted  for  their  bedside  manner.  NTs,  who 
"gather  information  and  then  apply  logic  to  the  possibilities,"  are 
especially  good  at  research,  particularly  in  quantitative  fields, 
and  at  dealing  with  organizations.  NFs,  "the  most  articulate 
of  all  the  types,"  are  often  journalists  or  novelists,  counselors  or 
psychotherapists. 

Business  administrators— leaders  in  industry,  government,  and 
the  military— are  often  TJs.  The  two  types  most  attracted  to  the 
sciences  are  INTJs  and  INTPs,  people  who  seem  to  value  knowl- 
edge for  its  own  sake.  And  studies  of  extremely  creative  people- 
Nobel  laureates,  etc.— have  found  that  creative  people  tend  to  be 
Ns:  by  intuition,  they  are  able  to  see  around  the  corner. 

Still,  categorization  is  exactly  what  Jung  feared:  in  letters  to 
Katharine  Briggs  and  Isabel  Myers,  he  wrote  that  he  did  not  want 
the  type  scales  to  be  used  as  labels.  "Each  type  serves  as  a 
resource  to  the  other,"  notes  SueLynn.  "It  is  extremely  important 
that  people  do  not  use  type  to  stereotype  or  pigeonhole— in  the 
work-place  or  anywhere.  A  perceptive  type  can  get  the  job  done, 
a  sensor  can  have  a  plan  for  the  future.  To  stereotype  is  to  rob  a 
person  of  his  or  her  opportunity  to  develop,  to  change." 

"Type  is  just  one  of  the  many  markers— age,  sex,  ethnic  and 
religious  background,  even  geography— that  help  us  predict  other 
people's  behavior,"  says  O.W.  Lacy.  "One's  appropriate  type  is 
not  a  cell  from  which  there  is  no  escape,  but  a  home  ground  from 
which  one  can  venture  forth  to  live  life  more  fully.  Unfortunately, 
there  is  much  in  what  we  do  with  type  that  reminds  people  of  the 
horoscope,  and  that  is  a  constant  danger." 

To  help  remove  the  Myers-Briggs  Type  Indicator  from  the 
realm  of  the  horoscope.  Lacy  has  spent  much  of  the  past  decade 
in  research  "aimed  at  establishing  the  validity  of  the  concept  and 
the  instrument."  In  each  of  the  past  eight  years,  about  500  of 
Franklin  and  Marshall's  entering  freshmen  have  been  given  the 
MBTI  and  two  more  established  inventories,  the  Strong  Campbell 
Interest  Inventory  and  the  Omnibus  Personality  Inventory.  The 
results  are  used  in  academic,  career,  and  personal  counseling 
while  the  students  are  at  F&M.  and  the  information  also  adds  to 
Lacy's  research.  An  analysis  of  results  from  some  3,500  students 
is  under  way  with  a  colleague  at  the  University  of  California- 


Berkeley.  "How  the  results  of  the  MBTI  correlate  with  the  results 
from  the  other  inventories  will  provide  concurrent  validity  evi- 
dence." Isabel  Myers  performed  similar  validity  tests,  but  Lacy 
points  out  that  he  hopes  "not  only  to  replicate,  but  also  to  extend 
her  results,  with  a  different  set  of  students,  from  different  decades 
and  different  backgrounds. 

"Knowing  what  a  person's  type  is,"  Lacy  asks,  "can  we  predict 
what  a  person  will  do  later?"  To  find  out,  Paul  Leavenworth, 
formerly  assistant  dean  of  students  at  F&M  and  now  a  PhD 
candidate  at  William  and  Mary,  will  test  some  aspects  of  the 
MBTI's  predictive  validity.  Using  F&M  data,  he'll  attempt  to 
correlate  a  student's  type  upon  entering  college  with  college  lead- 
ership activities  later.  "For  example,  students  who  make  Phi  Beta 
Kappa  tend  to  be  intuitives— tend  in  fact  to  be  IN-Js,"  Lacy  notes. 
"The  J  probably  gives  them  the  organization  necessary  for  con- 
sistently realizing  really  good  grades. 

"Isabel  Myers  felt  that  the  educational  system  begins  to  screen 
for  type,  and  indeed  it  seems  that  sensing  types  and  perceiving 
types  tend  to  drop  out  a  little  bit  as  you  go  higher  up  the  education 
ladder."  (The  inference  is  that  intuitive  types,  who  find  it  easier  to 
grasp  concepts,  and  judging  types,  with  their  liking  for  completed 
projects,  fit  most  neatly  into  the  educational  system.) 

Another  question  worth  asking  is  whether,  compared  to  their 
numbers  in  the  general  population,  certain  types  engage  in  certain 
activities  in  disproportionate  numbers.  Himself  a  2,000-miler  on 
the  Appalachian  Trail,  Lacy  has  so  far  studied  96  men  and  27 
women  who  have  also  completed  the  trail.  "The  2,000-miler  is 
typically  an  introvert  and  more  likely  to  be  intuitive."  INFPs,  for 
example,  make  up  about  10  percent  of  the  hikers  sample,  yet 
account  for  only  2.5  percent  of  the  general  population.  And  al- 
though 1 1.2  percent  of  men  and  16.9  percent  of  women  in  the 
general  population  are  ESFPs,  "not  a  single  ESFP  has  surfaced  as 
a  2,000-miler  so  far." 

Meanwhile,  research  on  Myers-Briggs  in  business  and  indus- 
trial situations  is  flourishing,  with  work  ranging  from  how  busi- 
ness people  conceptualize  to  studies  of  different  professions,  such 
as  banking  and  accounting,  and  the  types  they  seem  to  attract. 
"There's  one  problem,"  admits  Mary  McCaulley,  a  University  of 
Florida  psychologist  who  is  president  of  the  Center  for  Applica- 
tions of  Psychological  Type.  "In  business,  you  get  so  many  judg- 
ing and  thinking  types  that  it's  hard  to  have  a  significant  represen- 
tation of  feeling  and  intuitive  types  in  your  sample." 

McCaulley,  a  consultant  for  the  career-development  programs 
of  such  corporations  as  Citibank  and  Honeywell,  thinks  that 
MBTI  will  become  more  and  more  important  in  the  work-place, 
"especially  in  companies  large  enough  to  have  in-house  career 
development  programs— quite  often  the  MBTI  is  used  as  part  of 
that  program."  And  organizational  consultants,  she  says,  keep 
adding  the  instrument  to  their  kit  of  management  remedies. 

To  gauge  the  impact  of  types  on  a  team  of  eight  people,  say,  a 
consultant  might  help  a  manager  divide  the  group  members  into 
intuiting  and  sensing,  introverting  and  extroverting.  "In  a  12- 
person  office  that  complained  of  communications  problems," 
SueLynn  says,  "I  discovered  that  10  of  the  12  people  were  intro- 
verting types.  They  simply  had  no  inherent  need  to  let  the  other 
people  in  the  office  know  what  they  were  doing."  The  solution: 
the  introverting  types  made  an  effort  to  be  more  communicative 
about  business  matters. 

Employees  exposed  to  the  Myers-Briggs  Type  Indicator  in  the 
work-place  often  take  it  home  at  the  end  of  the  day:  "The  MBTI 
has  wider  uses  than  many  instruments,"  says  Mary  McCaulley. 
"because  it  concerns  how  you  take  in  information  and  make 
decisions— in  other  words,  everything  you  do." 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Death  of  a  star:  In  1054,  Chinese  astronomers  watched  as  a  massive  star,  now  known  as  the  Crab  Nebula,  exploded.  Space 
Telescope  should  let  today 's  astronomers  witness  another  exploding  supernova— but  in  more  detail. 

g^^^L     HT       '     I     ^  I       Y'l     1        r-r^he  heavens  are  filled  with  strange- 
f  1  [V  I         I^^J     I    _j  I     ness.  Clouds  of  stuff  as  common  as 

1  II   ^1  I         ^™|    |i  -^    dust  and  hydrogen  gas  can  thicken, 

\^^S  X     ^1  I         1        I    1    ^j      condense,  and  heat  until  they  create  stars, 

but  no  one  knows  exactly  how.  Pulsars  are 
unbelievably  dense  stars  that  spin  at  a 
quarter  the  speed  of  light.  Quasars  are  an- 
cient objects  the  size  of  stars,  yet  shine 
more  intensely  than  the  largest  galaxy. 

Astronomers  have  long  lists  of  items  to 
investigate;  light  alone  carries  the  an- 
swers. Unfortunately,  Earth's  atmo- 
sphere—a fabric  of  cells  of  differing  densi- 
ties, which  bounce,  dim,  and  diffract  the 
light— intervenes  before  the  light  reaches 
us  here  on  Earth.  That's  why  stars  appear 
to  twinkle. 

The  obvious  solution  to  this  interfer- 
ence: put  a  telescope  above  the  atmo- 
sphere. In  mid-1986  NASA  will  do  just 
that,  using  the  Space  Shuttle  to  carry 
Space  Telescope  320  miles  above  the 
Earth.  Designed  as  the  first  permanent  ob- 
servatory in  space,  Space  Telescope 
should  spend  the  next  15  or  20  years  gath- 
ering information  from  the  light  of  stars 
and  galaxies  and  sending  it  back  to  com- 
puters at  the  Space  Telescope  Science  In- 
stitute in  Baltimore.  (The  Institute,  oper- 
ated for  NASA  and  the  European  Space 


OTHER  SIDE 

OF  THE 
ATMOSPHERE 

♦  ♦  ♦  Space  Telescope  will  see  the  universe 
with  100  times  more  detail  than  ever  before* 


By  Ann  Finkbeiner 


FEBRUARY  1984       V 


Agency  by  the  17-member  Association  of 
Universities  for  Research  in  Astronomy, 
Inc.,  is  on  the  Homewood  campus  of 
Johns  Hopkins  University.)  There,  after 
the  signals  have  been  transformed  and  an- 
alyzed. Institute  staff  and  guest  observers 
will  see  the  universe  on  the  other  side  of 
the  atmosphere. 

Although  its  2.4-meter  mirror  is  not  es- 
pecially large.  Space  Telescope's  power 
and  precision  are  remarkable:  compared  to 
Earth-based  telescopes,  it  will  be  able  to 
see  stars  fifty  times  fainter  with  a  hundred 
times  more  detail.  While  Earth-based  tele- 
scopes have  a  limit  of  resolution  (the 
smallest  width  that  can  be  brought  into  fo- 
cus) of  around  one  arc  second,  Space  Tele- 
scope's Fine  Guidance  Sensors  can  aim 
with  an  accuracy  of  .007  arc  seconds. 
From  Baltimore,  that's  like  being  able  to 
pick  out  a  dime  in  Chicago.  Seeing  farther 
out  into  space,  of  course,  means  seeing 
further  into  time,  and  Space  Telescope 
will  be  able  to  see  98  percent  of  the  way 
back  to  time's  beginning. 

In  addition  to  the  Fine  Guidance  Sen- 
sors, Space  Telescope  will  carry  Five  in- 
struments: two  cameras,  two  spectro- 
graphs, and  one  photometer.  They  balance 
each  other's  talents:  where  one  can  pro- 
vide a  wide  field  of  view,  another  has  the 
resolution  necessary  for  detail.  Astrono- 
mers will  use  sometimes  one  instrument, 
sometimes  several,  to  satisfy  their  curios- 
ity about  the  planets,  stars,  galaxies,  clus- 
ters, and  the  fate  of  the  universe. 

Planets 

Oddly  enough,  astronomers  know  less 
about  the  history  of  our  planetary  system 
than  they  do  about  that  of  distant  stars.  So 
it  is  still  a  puzzle  why  the  planetary  atmo- 
spheres are  so  different.  "Venus  is  hot, 
cloudy,  and  inhospitable,"  says  Richard 
Griffiths,  an  instrument  scientist  for  the 
Wide  Field/Planetary  Camera.  "Mars  is 
dry,  dusty,  not  much  water  vapor,"  he  con- 
tinues. "Jupiter  and  Saturn  are  totally  in- 
hospitable—even if  you  got  through  their 


The  great  red  spot  in 

Jupiter's  atmosphere  is 

hardly  visible  in  this 

ground-based  photo  (top). 

Voyager  saw  the  planet 

more  clearly  (middle)  and 

was  able  to  focus  quite 

closely  on  its  turbulent 

spot  (bottom).  What  the 

satellite  saw  from  its 

flight  past  the  planet, 

Space  Telescope  will  be 

able  to  see  from  orbit 

around  the  Earth — and  it 

can  watch  long  enough  to 

observe  changes. 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


atmospheres,  you'd  be  crushed  by  gravity 
before  your  feet  touched  anything  solid." 

Spacecraft  would  have  to  actually  land 
on  the  planets  to  unravel  these  puzzles,  but 
Space  Telescope  will  answer  some  ques- 
tions. Take  the  great  red  spot  in  the  atmo- 
sphere on  Jupiter,  for  instance.  It  has  been 
known  for  a  couple  of  centuries,  says  Grif- 
fiths, "and  we  still  haven't  figured  out 
what  it  is."  One  of  the  most  important 
things  the  Wide  Field/Planetary  Camera 
can  do,  he  points  out,  is  monitor  changes 
on  the  planets  over  long  time  scales.  "We 
should  be  able  to  watch  the  great  red  spot 
grow,  or  watch  a  storm  on  Mars  build  up 
and  die  away,  or  watch  the  dust  move 
around  in  Mars's  atmosphere."  Then,  he 
hopes,  more  will  be  known  about  the 
physics  of  planetary  atmospheres. 

The  Wide  Field/Planetary  Camera,  ac- 
tually two  cameras  in  one  instrument, 
should  provide  information  about  the  plan- 
ets themselves,  as  well.  Its  special  infrared 
and  ultraviolet  sensors  will  detect  up  to  80 
percent  of  the  light  that's  there.  (The  best 
photographic  plate  on  the  ground  detects 
1  percent.)  The  sensors  are  essentially 
light-counters;  they  will  yield  images  in 
shades  of  bright  and  dark,  something  like 
regular  photographs. 

A  spectrograph,  by  contrast,  does  not 
produce  an  image  of  the  source  it's  looking 
at.  Dennis  Ebbets,  instrument  scientist  for 
the  High  Resolution  Spectrograph,  says 
the  spectrograph  will  use  the  telescope 
basically  as  a  light  bucket,  to  collect  a  lot 
of  photons.  "Then  it  spreads  the  light  out 
into  a  spectrum  according  to  wavelength, 
the  way  a  prism  does."  Knowing  the  spec- 
trum of  an  object  lets  an  astronomer  read 
its  temperature,  chemical  composition, 
magnetic  field  strength,  density,  rate  of  ro- 
tation, and  motion  along  the  line  of  sight. 

"The  High  Resolution  Spectrograph, 
working  with  the  Planetary  Camera,  can 
do  'weather  reports'  on  Jupiter  on  a  day  to 
day  basis,"  says  Ebbets.  "It  can  study  Ju- 
piter's northern  lights.  It  can  analyze  the 
fumes  from  individual  volcanoes  on  Jupi- 
ter's moon,  Io.  Earth  is  only  one  example 
of  a  planetary  atmosphere.  The  bigger 


question  is,   what  are  planetary  atmo- 
spheres like  in  general?" 

"Knowing  what  planetary  atmospheres 
are  like  in  general,"  says  Richard  Grif- 
fiths, "will  help  us  understand  how  fre- 
quent or  even  likely  is  a  planet  like  Earth." 

"I  don't  think  we're  alone  in  the  uni- 
verse," says  Duccio  Macchetto,  head  of 
the  Institute's  Instrument  Support  Branch, 
and  an  instrument  scientist  for  the  Faint 
Object  Camera.  "But  so  far,  no  one  has 
actually  seen  another  planet  outside  our 
solar  system." 

The  Wide  Field/Planetary  Camera  will 
also  be  used  in  the  search  for  planets 
around  nearby  stars.  Many  other  stars, 
Barnard's  star  being  the  most  famous, 
have  wobbles  in  their  orbits  that  might  in- 
dicate planets.  True,  the  Planetary  Camera 
could  only  detect  wobbles  caused  by  large 
planets  like  Jupiter;  in  our  solar  system,  at 
any  rate,  life  on  such  giant  outer  planets  is 
impossible.  "But  if  the  model  for  the  for- 
mation of  our  solar  system  holds  for  oth- 
ers," says  Richard  Griffiths,  "then  where 
there  are  large  planets,  there  will  also  be 
small  ones." 

"Whether  we  can  make  these  observa- 
tions is  marginal,"  says  Macchetto.  "But 
we  think  the  planets  should  be  out  there." 
Macchetto  admits  that,  from  a  purely 
physics  viewpoint,  the  discovery  wouldn't 
be  earth-shaking.  But,  he  adds,  "It'd  give 
us  a  good,  warm  feeling,  wouldn't  it?" 

Stars 

Astronomers  know  that  huge,  hot,  young 
stars  often  group  in  the  spiral  arms  of  gal- 
axies, and  that  the  groups  frequently  coin- 
cide with  dense  clouds  of  hydrogen  and 
carbon  monoxide  molecules.  They  think 
the  stars  are  born  there,  in  nests  formed  by 
the  molecular  clouds. 

Clouds  of  molecules,  the  theory  goes, 
attract  one  another  gravitationally,  con- 
dense, and  finally  become  compact 
enough  that  thermonuclear  fusion  begins. 
The  star  then  catches  fire  in  a  wash  of 
ultraviolet  radiation.  But  this  is  specula- 


tion so  far,  because  the  molecular  clouds 
absorb  the  ultraviolet  and  thus  shield  the 
birth  process  from  view.  Astronomers 
pick  up  only  the  radio  and  infrared  radia- 
tion from  the  clouds.  But  the  Faint  Object 
Camera  should  be  able  to  detect  some 
remnants  of  ultraviolet  radiation  from  a 
newly  born  star.  And  by  making  observa- 
tions over  three  years,  astronomers  should 
be  able  to  use  the  Wide  Field/Planetary 
Camera  to  watch  matter  condensing  into  a 
star. 

Once  the  star  is  born  and  is  burning  nor- 
mally, astronomers  can  predict  its  proba- 
ble life  history.  No  matter  where  they 
look,  a  star  is  going  through  one  stage  or 
another,  so  prediction  is  just  a  matter  of 
statistics.  Our  sun,  for  example,  should 
shine  fairly  steadily  for  another  4  1/2  bil- 
lion years.  When  it  finally  dies,  it  will  die 
in  two  stages:  as  a  red  giant,  it  will  expand 
enough  to  engulf  Earth's  orbit;  then  it  will 
shrink  into  a  cold  white  dwarf. 

Stars  larger  than  the  sun  die  less  quietly. 
After  a  series  of  wild  fluctuations,  they 
become  supernovas  and  explode.  We  see 
remnants  of  the  explosion,  hanging  in 
veils  and  filaments  of  dust  and  gas.  Using 
the  Faint  Object  Camera,  astronomers  will 
search  out  a  supernova  soon  after  it  ex- 
plodes. If  they  watch  long  enough,  per- 
haps 10  years,  they  can  assemble  a  slow- 
motion  movie  of  the  supernova's 
expansion  into  space. 

Or  rather,  they  can  watch  the  expansion 
of  part  of  the  supernova.  For  when  one 
explodes,  most  of  its  mass  falls  back  in 
toward  its  center.  Since  there  is  now  no 
countering,  outward  push  of  nuclear  burn- 
ing, gravity's  inward  pull  is  fierce.  The 
star  contracts  so  far  that  electrons  are 
pulled  into  their  nuclei,  changing  the  pro- 
tons into  neutrons.  The  resulting  neutron 
star,  having  about  the  mass  of  the  sun  in  a 
10-mile  diameter,  is  so  dense  that  a  spoon- 
ful would  sink  into  the  Earth's  center. 

"The  magnetic  field  of  a  neutron  star  is 
very,  very,  very  strong,"  says  Richard 
White,  instrument  scientist  for  the  High 
Speed  Photometer,  the  telescope's  simplest 
instrument.  It  counts  the  number  of  pho- 


FEBRUARY  1984       VII 


tons  arriving  from  wherever  the  telescope 
points.  While  measurements  can  be  made 
from  the  ground  at  the  rate  of  1 ,000  times 
a  second,  the  photometer  makes  them  at 
100,000  times  a  second. 

"In  magnetic  fields  as  strong  as  a  neu- 
tron star's,  weird  things  happen  with 
light,"  says  White.  Light  escapes  from  the 
star's  magnetic  poles  more  easily  than  at 
its  equator.  "Effectively,  a  neutron  star 
has  a  little  bright  spot  at  its  equator,"  says 
White.  "Neutron  stars  are  spinning  around 
an  axis,  a  pole.  And  every  time  the  spot 
comes  around,  you  see  a  flash."  Neutron 
stars  flash  one  to  1,000  times  every  sec- 
ond; they  spin  at  one-fourth  the  speed  of 
light. 

Not  all  stars  larger  than  the  sun  end  up 
as  neutron  stars.  A  star  four  times  the  sun's 
size  would  continue  to  contract  until  its 
gravitational  field  was  so  strong  that  light 
could  no  longer  escape.  It  would  then  be  a 
black  hole— and  astronomers  hope  the 
telescope  will  let  them  "see"  one. 

Astronomers  are  reasonably  certain 
black  holes  exist,  and  though,  needless  to 
say,  they  cannot  literally  see  one,  they 
think  they  can  see  its  effects.  The  gravita- 
tional field  of  a  black  hole  pulls  in  any 
surrounding  material.  But  before  going 
completely  down  the  drain,  the  material 
whirls  around  the  black  hole,  creating  an 
accretion  disk.  "The  stuff  in  the  disk  col- 
lides, creating  friction,"  explains  White. 
"Closer  and  closer  to  the  inner  edge  of  an 
accretion  disk,  it  gets  hotter  and  hotter. 
You  can  find  a  black  hole  by  the  light  cre- 
ated by  the  friction  in  an  accretion  disk." 
In  effect,  then,  a  black  hole  does  shine, 
though  irregularly. 

But  neutron  stars  can  have  accretion 
disks,  too.  The  telescope's  High  Speed 
Photometer  can  detect  accretion  disks 
from  both  neutron  stars  and  black  holes 
and  identify  which  is  which.  Neutron  stars 
are  larger,  their  flashes  regular  and  further 
apart.  "If  it  is  a  black  hole,"  White  says, 
"they'll  see  irregular  variations  as  fast  as 
the  Photometer  can  measure— 100,000 
times  a  second.  With  changes  that  fast,  it 
has  to  be  a  black  hole." 


The  Great  Nebula  in 
Orion  (above)  and  the 
Veil  Nebula  in  Cygnus 
(right)  were  named  when 
a  nebula — Latin  for 
"cloud" — was  just  a  dim 
patch  seen  by  an  early 
telescope.  They  represent 
nearly  opposite  events. 
Orion  s  clouds  of  gas  and 
dust  are  raw  materials 
which  will  collapse  into 
stars,  while  the  Veil's 
filaments— remnants  of  a 
dying  supernova — expand 
into  space.  Space  Tele- 
scope can  watch  both. 


VIII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Galaxies 


Astronomers  know  that  galaxies  come  in 
types.  Slightly  flattened  or  spherical,  ellip- 
tical galaxies  are  composed  of  older  stars 
and  contain  little  of  the  gas  and  dust  that 
might  create  new  stars.  Spiral  galaxies, 
like  our  Milky  Way,  have  a  large,  dense 
bulge  at  their  centers  and  spiral  arms  thick 
with  young  stars  and  gas  and  dust. 

Early  theories  linked  the  two  types  in  a 
sequence:  ellipticals  were  supposed  to 
evolve  into  spiral  galaxies.  Today,  how- 
ever, astronomers  have  their  doubts.  "Is 
the  difference  between  ellipticals  and  spi- 
rals evolutionary,"  asks  Duccio  Mac- 
chetto,  "or  has  it  to  do  with  the  way  they 
were  formed  in  the  first  place?  The  theory 
now  is  that  they  were  born  different."  So 
the  High  Resolution  Spectrograph  will 
look  at  clusters  of  galaxies  for  signs  of 
evolution,  to  see  if  ellipticals  and  spirals 
are  parent  and  child  or  simply  cousins. 

Another  group  of  galaxies  called  active 
galaxies  are  less  a  type  than  a  jumble. 
They  have  no  particular  shape,  but  all  pos- 
sess extremely  small,  exceptionally  bril- 
liant centers.  In  fact,  the  amount  of  light 
coming  from  the  center  is  a  significant 
fraction  of  the  light  coming  from  the  rest 
of  the  galaxy. 

Astronomers  are  highly  curious  about 
the  nuclei  of  those  active  galaxies.  "The 
nuclei  of  all  active  galaxies  lie  buried  at 
the  center  of  the  nuclear  bulge,"  says 
Richard  Griffiths.  Looking  at  the  bulge 
with  ground-based  telescopes,  astrono- 
mers can  usually  see  only  what  Dennis  Eb- 
bets  calls  an  "overexposed  blob." 

With  the  Telescope's  Wide  Field/Plane- 
tary Camera,  however,  researchers  should 
be  able  to  resolve  "right  at  the  dead  center 
of  that  blob,  one  little  super-bright  point." 
So  far,  the  most  popular  explanation  for 
the  bright  nuclei  is  that  such  a  blaze  is 
actually  the  accretion  disk  of  a  black  hole. 

Active  galactic  nuclei  resemble  another 
curiosity,  quasars.  First  observed  20  years 
ago,  quasars  are  still  the  most  distant  ob- 
jects astronomers  see— hundreds  of  mil- 


lions, even  billions  of  light  years  away.  In 
theory,  that  means  they  should  be  hun- 
dreds of  millions  to  billions  of  years  old, 
three-quarters  of  the  age  of  the  universe. 
Quasars  are  a  hundred  times  brighter  than 
the  brightest  galaxy  and  a  hundred  thou- 
sand times  smaller  than  the  apparent  size 
of  a  normal  galaxy.  It's  hard  to  talk  about 
quasars  and  avoid  hyperbole. 

"Then  there  is  the  fuzz,  as  it's  called, 
around  a  quasar,"  says  Ralph  Bohlin,  an 
instrument  scientist  for  the  Faint  Object 
Spectrograph.  Working  in  the  ultraviolet 
spectrum  and  on  the  same  principles  as  the 
High  Resolution  Spectrograph,  the  Faint 
Object  Spectrograph  has  lower  resolution, 
but  can  see  things  that  are  much  dimmer 
and  much  farther  away.  Things  such  as  a 
quasar's  fuzz— which  astronomers  think  is 
really  a  galaxy.  "Few  quasars  have  been 
found  to  have  underlying  galaxies,"  admits 
Bohlin,  "but  so  far,  that's  because  of  the 
limitation  of  the  instruments."  (To  see  the 
galaxies  around  quasars,  astronomers  can 
also  use  the  telescope's  twoCameras) 

The  number  of  active  galaxies  and  qua- 
sars seem  to  increase  with  distance.  In 
other  words,  the  early  universe  held  more 
active  galaxies  and  quasars  than  does  the 
present.  Astronomers  therefore  suspect 
that  galactic  evolution,  active  galaxies, 
and  quasars  are  connected. 

Quasars,  for  example,  might  be  the  bril- 
liant centers  of  early  active  galaxies.  And 
active  galaxies  might  be  what  the  ellipti- 
cals and  spirals  looked  like  millions  and 
billions  of  years  ago— violent  creatures, 
powered  by  black  holes  of  incomprehensi- 
ble size.  Eventually,  perhaps,  such  gal- 
axies settle  into  middle  age  as  the  spirals 
or  ellipticals  we  see  around  us.  But  some 
memory  of  youth  may  remain;  most  gal- 
axies, including  ours,  probably  have  small 
or  inactive  black  holes  at  their  centers. 


Clusters m 

Cosmologists— astronomers  who  deal  with 
the  origin,  evolution,  and  end  of  the  uni- 
verse—have evidence  that  the  universe  ex- 


FEBRUARY  1984       IX 


ploded  into  being  15  to  20  billion  years 
ago.  Since  then,  everything— space  and 
time,  matter  and  energy— has  been  drifting 
away  from  everything  else. 

"We  know  pretty  much  how  the  uni- 
verse started."  says  Institute  director  Ric- 
cardo  Giacconi.  "However,  we  don't 
know  how  it  went  from  the  Big  Bang  to  the 
universe  we  see  today."  In  its  first  instants, 
it  is  generally  agreed,  a  chaotic  universe 
blended  uniformly  into  a  primordial  soup. 

Today  we  see  a  much  lumpier  universe. 
"Galaxies  are  not  uniformly  distributed  in 
space,"  says  Giacconi.  "They  seem  to  oc- 
cur in  sheets,  in  filaments,  in  knots,  in 
structures  separated  by  very  large  dis- 
tances. There  are  islands  of  matter  and  is- 
lands of  emptiness."  Stars  collect  into  gal- 
axies, galaxies  into  clusters  of  galaxies, 
clusters  into  superclusters  separated  by 
voids  of  millions  of  light  years.  Only  on 
the  largest  scale— superclusters  and  be- 
yond, a  billion  light  years— is  the  universe 
uniform.  How  did  the  present  structure  de- 
velop out  of  homogeneous  chaos? 

"There  are  two  main-line  theories,"  says 
Giacconi.  Both  assume  that  as  the  earliest 
universe  expanded  and  cooled,  clumps  or 
inhomogeneities  in  the  general  uniform 
density  occurred  at  random.  "But  what  is 
the  scale  of  these  inhomogeneities?  Is  it 
small,  of  a  size  that  could  condense  into  a 
star  or  a  galaxy?  Is  it  much  larger? 

"One  theory  assumes  that  small  inho- 
mogeneities can  occur  and  that  stars  and 
galaxies  formed  first."  Stars,  galaxies, 
clusters,  and  superclusters  would  merge 
by  mutual  gravitational  attraction.  This  is 
the  hierarchical  theory. 

The  pancake  model,  on  the  other  hand, 
theorizes  that  clumps  the  size  of  a  star  or 
galaxy  would  have  dissipated  in  the  early 
chaos,  so  that  only  supernova-sized 
clumps  would  have  survived.  "These  larg- 
est inhomogeneities  were  in  the  form  of 
pancakes,  wide  in  one  direction,  narrow  in 
the  other,"  says  Giacconi.  "These  enor- 
mous clumps  then  fragmented,  and  out  of 
the  pieces  came  the  clusters,  then  the  gal- 
axies, and  finally  the  stars." 

The  two  theories  also  differ  in  the  age 


they  assign  to  the  galaxies.  In  the  hierar- 
chical model,  galaxies  formed  almost  at 
the  Big  Bang  and  are  about  20  billion  years 
old.  In  the  pancake  model,  galaxies  are 
younger,  around  17  billion  years  old. 

Here  is  a  dispute  the  Space  Telescope 
probably  can  resolve,  for  the  Wide  Field/ 
Planetary  Camera  will  be  able  to  see  ap- 
proximately 13  billion  light  years  back  in 
time,  far  enough  to  see  young  galaxies— if 
the  pancake  model  is  right.  "If  we  find 
absolutely  no  indication  of  galaxy  evolu- 
tion going  back  to  10  billion  light  years," 
concludes  Giacconi.  "I  think  the  pancake 
theory  would  be  difficult  to  sustain." 


The  Future  of  the  Universe 

Cosmologists  not  only  want  to  look  into 
the  past,  they  also  want  to  see  into  the 
future.  They  want  to  know  whether  the 
universe  will  continue  to  expand,  opening 
forever.  Or  will  it  finally  reverse  and  fall 
in  on  itself,  closing  down  into  a  hot,  infi- 
nitely dense  and  singular  point? 

The  universe  is  unquestionably  expand- 
ing, astronomers  agree,  but  because  the 
gravitational  attraction  of  all  its  mass  pulls 
it  back  together,  expansion  is  slowing. 
Thus  the  fate  of  the  universe  depends  on 
how  much  mass  it  has:  An  open  universe 
will  be  populated  sparsely,  but  if  the  uni- 
verse is  dense  enough,  the  laws  of  physics 
indicate  it  will  eventually  pull  together. 
Find  the  amount  of  mass  and  how  far  apart 
it  is— in  other  words,  find  the  density— and 
you  know  the  fate  of  the  universe. 

Density  depends  in  part  on  what  astron- 
omers call  the  distance  scale.  The  easiest 
way  to  measure  the  distance  to  a  star  is 
called  trigonometric  parallax.  Pure  and 
simple  geometry,  trigonometric  parallax  is 
the  most  accurate  of  all  the  methods:  Lo- 
cate the  star  against  a  background  of  other 
stars  and  measure  its  apparent  movement 
after  six  months.  Then,  knowing  the  size 
of  relevant  angles  and  the  distance  from 
one  side  of  Earth's  orbit  to  the  other,  you 
can  calculate  the  long  arms  of  the  triangle, 
the  distance  to  the  star. 


Other,  less  accurate  methods  of  measur- 
ing distance  are  statistical.  That  is,  they 
depend  on  observed  relationships:  The  far- 
ther a  star  appears  to  travel  in  one  year,  the 
closer  it  is.  For  a  variable  star  like  those 
called  Cepheids,  the  longer  the  period  of 
variation,  the  more  intrinsically  bright  it 
is.  The  fainter  a  star  of  known  brightness, 
the  farther  it  is.  The  more  intrinsically 
bright  a  star,  the  more  massive.  The  more 
massive,  the  bluer. 

Such  relationships  begin  to  look  like  a 
house  of  cards,  all  resting  on  the  paral- 
laxes of  a  few  nearby  stars.  "Parallax  is 
the  base  of  other  measurements  of  dis- 
tance." says  Alain  Fresneau,  instrument 
scientist  for  the  Fine  Guidance  Sensors. 
"If  you  enlarge  this  base,  you  will  im- 
prove everything." 

"For  the  moment,"  he  says,  "we  have 
good  parallaxes  of  stars  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  sun.  up  to  50  parsecs."  (That's  roughly 
150  light  years.)  "With  the  Fine  Guidance 
Sensors,  it  will  be  possible  to  go  out  to 
1,000  parsecs."  That's  accuracy  to  a  dis- 
tance of  3,000  light  years,  to  the  arms  of 
our  galaxy. 

And  it  should  be  possible  to  go  farther 
yet.  The  High  Speed  Photometer,  Faint 
Object  Camera,  and  Wide  Field/Planetary 
Camera  will  refine  measurements  of  stars' 
periods,  brightness,  masses,  and  colors. 
Researchers  plan  to  check  distances  de- 
rived from  these  relationships  agQ'nst  dis- 
tances derived  from  parallaxes— making 
the  distance  scale  accurate  out  as  far  as  the 
great  clusters  of  galaxies. 

Measuring  distances  is  one  step  in  mea- 
suring the  universe's  density;  calculating 
its  mass  is  another.  To  estimate  mass,  as- 
tronomers use  the  same  sort  of  relation- 
ships used  to  estimate  distance,  but  on  a 
larger  scale.  They  begin  with  what  they 
know:  a  bright  galaxy  has  more  mass.  The 
way  a  galaxy  rotates  reveals  its  mass.  The 
motion  of  galaxies  within  clusters  reveals 
how  much  mass  is  in  the  cluster. 

Yet  when  astronomers  compare  the 
amount  of  mass  implied  by  brightness  with 
the  amount  of  mass  implied  by  rotation  or 
motion,  they  find  discrepancies.  Bright- 


X       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Three  ways  of  looking  at 
an  active  galaxy  and  its 
small,  exceptionally 
bright  center:  Radio 
spectroscopy  of  the  large 
radio  galaxy  NGC  315 
(top)  points  out  its 
mysterious  jet  with  its  two 
hot  spots.  The  nucleus  of 
M87,  which  also  has  a 
jet,  is  seen  in  the  X-ray 
wavelength  (middle).  A 
ground-based,  optical 
view  of  MSI  (bottom) 
shows  the  nucleus  as  "an 
over-exposed  blob."  ST 
should  resolve  the  dead 
center  of  that  blob,  a 
super-bright  point  that 
perhaps  is  the  accretion 
disk  of  a  black  hole. 


ness,  which  counts  only  visible  matter, 
gives  a  considerably  lower  mass  than  the 
other  measures,  which  count  all  matter. 
Therefore,  80  to  90  percent  of  the  uni- 
verse's matter  must  be  dark— invisible. 
Astronomers  call  it  the  missing  mass. 

"We  know  where  some  of  the  missing 
mass  is,"  says  Neta  Bahcall,  one  of  the 
Institute's  few  cosmologists.  "It  surrounds 
galaxies,  it  is  found  in  the  clusters  of  gal- 
axies, and  even  the  bigger  systems,  the 
superclusters,  contain  it."  The  dark  matter 
is  evident  only  by  its  effects  on  the  rotation 
and  motions  of  galaxies.  Looking  around 
in  the  dark,  Space  Telescope  will  refine 
the  measurements  of  mass  it  cannot  see. 

So  far,  astronomers  can  only  guess  at 
what  the  total  of  that  missing  mass  might 
be.  Currently,  the  favorite  theory  points  to 
elementary  particles  of  matter  with  so  little 
mass  that  they  very  seldom  bind  gravita- 
tionally— yet  exist  in  such  great  numbers 
that  their  mass  is  a  significant  fraction  of 
the  mass  of  the  universe. 

And  then  there's  serendipity,  quite  liter- 
ally a  project  in  the  Institute's  original  pro- 
posal. "The  most  interesting  things,  by 
definition,"  explains  Ralph  Bohlin,  "are 
the  ones  we  haven't  seen  yet."  So  15  per- 
cent of  Space  Telescope's  observing  time 
will  be  labelled  Director's  Discretionary 
Time.  It  is  precious  time  left  open  in  a 
tight  schedule  to  investigate  the  inevitable 
surprises,  the  things  no  one  expected. 

Anything  else? 

"We  will  be  able  to  ask  questions  which 
seem  crazy,  seem  fanciful  to  ask,"  says 
Riccardo  Giacconi.  "The  fundamental 
question,  I  think,  is  whether  the  universe 
is  precisely  the  result  of  the  intrinsic  prop- 
erties of  matter.  Once  you  have  the  physi- 
cal laws  and  once  you're  given  the  first 
fluctuation,  does  it  all  follow?  If,  after  the 
first  instant,  everything  was  driven  by  ne- 
cessity, then  we  want  to  understand  that 
necessity.  We  are  asking  some  of  the  most 
profound  philosophical  questions  you  can 
ask  about  the  universe." 

Ann   Finkbeiner  is  a   Baltimore-based 
freelancer  who  writes  on  science. 


FEBRUARY  1984       XI 


R)bin  Hood 

REVISED 

The  legend  of  the  merry  outlaw  began  more  than 
700  years  ago*  His  history  is  vague  but, 

says  a  British  historian, 

one  thing  is  clean  Robin  never  robbed 

the  rich  to  give  to  the  poor* 


By  James  C.  Holt 


Robin  Hood  is  regarded  by  many,  in- 
cluding some  historians,  as  an  arche- 
typal hero  who  successfully  defied 
unjust  authority— personified  by  the 
wicked  sheriff  of  Nottingham— and 
righted  the  ills  of  society  by  robbing  the 
rich  and  giving  to  the  poor.  His  legend  has 
survived  for  more  than  seven  centuries, 
with  some  changes  and  adjustments  cer- 
tainly, but  with  the  essentials  preserved:  so 
far  no  film  maker  has  armed  Robin  with  a 
space-gun  or  dared  to  change  the  sheriff 
into  a  good  cop. 

But  where  did  the  legend  come  from, 
and  how  much  of  it  is  true?  The  story  has 
been  told  and  retold  so  often,  acquiring 
layer  after  layer  of  accretions  catering  to 
the  tastes  of  each  new  generation.  What  do 
we  really  know  about  Robin  Hood? 

The  first  known  reference  to  Robin 
Hood  occurs  in  a  version  of  William 
Langland's  Piers  Ploughman,  composed 
in  1377,  in  which  Sloth  is  made  to  say: 

I  do  not  well  know  my  Paternoster  as  the 
priest  sings  it. 

But  I  know  rhymes  of  Robin  Hood  and 
Randolph  Earl  of  Chester. 
So  far  so  good,  but  the  question  of  origins 
remains,  for  plainly  Langland's  "rhymes" 
were  already  current.  How  old  was  the 
legend  when  he  alluded  to  it  and  how  was 
it  transmitted? 

The  first  tales  to  survive  in  manuscript 
come  from  about  1450.  Robin  Hood  and 


the  Monk,  found  in  a  manuscript  collection 
that  includes  a  prayer  against  thieves  and 
robbers,  is  a  thriller,  a  story  of  treachery 
and  revenge.  Robin  is  betrayed  to  the  sher- 
iff by  a  knavish  monk  and  is  then  rescued 
from  Nottingham  Castle  by  Little  John  and 
the  rest  of  the  gang.  Robin  Hood  and  the 
Potter,  part  of  a  manuscript  collection  of 
romances  and  moralistic  pieces  probably 
written  shortly  after  1503,  is  by  contrast 
almost  a  burlesque.  Robin,  after  challeng- 
ing and  fighting  a  traveling  potter,  takes 
the  potter's  dress  and  wares  to  inveigle  his 
way  into  Nottingham  Castle  and  lure  the 
sheriff  to  the  outlaw  lair  in  Sherwood. 

The  Gest  of  Robin  Hood,  most  probably 
written  in  the  15th  century,  is  a  collection 
of  the  current  tales  of  Robin  Hood.  It  at- 
tracted the  attention  of  early  printers,  and 
between  the  last  years  of  the  1 5th  century 
and  the  middle  of  the  16th  century  there 
appeared  no  less  than  five  editions  of  this 
lengthy  poem  describing  the  deeds  (gest) 
of  Robin  Hood.  The  Gest,  a  minstrel's  se- 
rial to  be  recited  at  intervals,  includes  what 
is  perhaps  the  earliest  story  of  all,  the  tale 
of  the  impoverished  knight.  In  this  story, 
Robin  assists  a  knight  who  has  mortgaged 
his  lands  to  the  Abbot  of  St.  Mary's  York, 
by  robbing  the  monks  themselves  to  repay 
the  loan.  The  Gest  also  includes  the  en- 
counter of  the  King  and  Robin  in  Sher- 
wood Forest  and  a  summary  tale  of  Rob- 
in's death  at  Kirklees. 


These  early  versions  contain  nothing  of 
the  legend  that  is  taken  for  granted  by 
20th-century  readers.  There  is  nothing  of 
King  Richard  the  Lionheart  or  of  his  ill- 
famed  brother,  Count  John;  the  only  king 
given  a  name  is  Edward  "our  comely 
king,"  which  leaves  a  wide  choice— by 
1327  there  were  three  Edwards. 

There  is  no  Maid  Marian;  she  only  came 
into  the  story  about  1500,  when  it  was  al- 
ready centuries  old.  Robin  is  not  of  noble 
birth;  that  was  a  social  gloss  first  applied 
in  the  16th  century  and  given  color  by  fic- 
titious pedigrees  of  the  1 8th  century  which 
made  him  Earl  of  Huntingdon.  In  origin, 
Robin  Hood  is  a  simple  yeoman. 

He  did  not  lead  the  English  resistance  to 
the  Normans;  that  element  came  into  the 
legend  in  1819,  with  Scott's  Ivanhoe.  He 
does  not  resist  royal  taxes;  the  only  tax 
mentioned  in  the  earliest  tales  is  pavage,  a 
tax  imposed  for  the  paving  of  market- 
places and  the  like.  And  Robin,  far  from 
resisting  the  tax,  is  trying  to  levy  it. 

The  earliest  tales  contain  next  to  nothing 
of  Robin's  robbing  the  rich  to  give  to  the 
poor.  That  he  was  a  "good  outlaw"  who 
"did  poor  men  much  good"  was  tacked  on 
to  one  tale  almost  as  an  afterthought. 

"Robin  Hood  and  Maid  Marian  in  Their 
Bower," from  Bold  Robin  Hood  and  His 
Outlaw  Band,  "penned  and  pictured  by 
Louis  Rhead"  (Harper  &  Bros.,  c.  1912). 


XII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


i  \ 


FEBRUARY  1984       XIII 


The  question  of  Robin 
Hood's  origins  remains,  and 
there  are  several  routes  to  an 
answer.  One,  of  course,  is  to 
identify  the  "real"  Robin 
Hood.  The  earliest  candidate 
for  the  role  is  one  Robert  Hod, 
who  was  recorded  as  a  fugitive 
before  the  King's  justices  at 
York  in  July  1225.  The  account 
recurred  in  the  following  year 
when  the  name  appeared  in  the 
more  colloquial  form,  Hobbe- 
hod.  Unfortunately,  the  plea 
roll  -which  might  have  con- 
tained details  of  the  charges 
against  him  has  not  survived. 
Only  one  thing  is  certain:  Ro- 
bert Hod  had  fled  the  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  court.  He  was  an 
outlaw.  He  is  the  only  possible 
original  of  Robin  Hood,  so  far 
discovered,  who  is  known  to 
have  been  an  outlaw.  Without 
more  evidence,  however,  the 
matter  is  inconclusive. 

Another  path  is  the  study  of 
literary  analogues.  This  ap- 
proach links  the  legend  with 
some  of  the  knightly  romances 
pfthe  13th  century,  particularly 
the  tales  of  Fulk  fitz  Warm,  a 
baron  of  the  Welsh  Marches 
who  was  an  outlawed  rebel 
against  King  John  (1200-3), 
and  of  Eustace  the  Monk.  This 
monk  took  to  the  woods  in 
1203  against  his  lord,  the 
Count  of  Boulogne,  and  ended  his  days  as 
a  soldier  of  fortune  when  he  was  defeated 
at  the  battle  of  Sandwich  in  1217.  Fulk  and 
Eustace  live  their  lives  as  outlaws  in  the 
forest,  just  as  Robin  Hood  does.  All  show 
a  remarkable  prowess  with  arms.  There  is 
no  one  to  resist  them;  they  may  be  under- 
mined by  treachery  or  overpowered  by 
numbers  but,  if  so,  they  gain  release 
through  skillful  ruse  and  the  base  stupidity 
of  their  captors.  Some  of  the  analogous 
material  must  have  been  transmitted  from 
one  tale  to  another. 

Approaching  the  legend  through  its  geo- 
graphic background  links  it  with  the  great 
baronial  estates  of  Pontefract,  which  en- 
compassed parts  of  both  Lancashire  and 
Yorkshire  and  through  which  the  major 
roads  north  from  London  led.  Barnsdale 
and  Clitheroe  were  both  Yorkshire  proper- 
ties of  the  de  Lacy  family,  lands  which 
came  to  the  earls  of  Lancaster  through  the 
marriage  of  Alice  de  Lacy  to  Thomas  of 
Lancaster  in  1292.  The  yeomen  who 
served,  and  the  minstrels  who  often  stayed 


When  "Robin  Hood  meeteth  the  tall 
Stranger  on  the  Bridge"  Little  John 
dunks  the  outlaw.  From  The  Merry 
Adventures  of  Robin  Hood  of  Great 
Renown,  illustrated  by  Howard  Pyle. 

at,  such  households  helped  disseminate  the 
legend  throughout  the  Pontefract  hold- 
ings—and beyond. 

Finally,  there  is  the  study  of  names:  not 
place-names,  for  they  mark  the  subsequent 
dissemination  of  the  legend,  but  surnames 
in  the  form  of  "Robinhood"  or  some 
equivalent.  The  earliest  example  has  long 
been  thought  to  be  Gilbert  Robinhood, 
who  appears  in  Fletching,  Sussex,  in 
1296.  Other  examples  occur  in  London  in 
the  early  14th  century.  (There  is  no  diffi- 
culty in  understanding  how  the  fame  of  the 
legendary  outlaw  might  have  been  carried 
from  Barnsdale  in  south  Yorkshire  down 
the  Great  North  Road  to  the  London  tav- 
erns. In  contrast,  Fletching,  to  the  south  of 
London  in  Sussex,  seems  a  far  cry  from 
Barnsdale:  but  not  in  terms  of  feudal  prop- 
erty, for  the  lord  of  Fletching  in  1296  was 


none  other  than  Thomas  of 
Lancaster,  husband  of  Alice  de 
Lacy  of  Pontefract.) 

Such  evidence  is  admittedly 
wondrous  thin  and  the  logic 
finespun.  After  all,  the  name 
Hood  was  not  uncommon;  men 
called  Robert  Hood  appear  fre- 
quently enough  in  the  existing 
records  to  preclude  the  snap 
identification  of  any  one  of 
them  with  the  legendary  out- 
law. But  the  combination  Ro- 
binhood is  extremely  rare. 
Even  so,  all  such  surnames 
could  simply  be  dismissed  as 
straightforward  patronymics. 
In  the  same  vein,  children  of  a 
Robert  Hood  could  also  be 
known  as  fitz  Robert,  or  Ro- 
bertson, or  Robinson,  or  Hud- 
son, or  Hodson,  or  even  just 
plain  Hood.  And,  more  com- 
monly, they  were.  In  fact,  Ro- 
binhood was  a  very  rare  form 
of  surname,  and  so  the  hunch, 
the  historian's  sixth  sense  re- 
mains: The  tales  were  suffi- 
ciently well  known  by  the  end 
of  the  13th  century  to  account 
for  the  adoption  of  a  rather 
strange  surname. 

The  weight  of  the  accumu- 
lated evidence  indicates  that  the 
legend's  central  locus  is  Barns- 
dale. (Most  probably,  Notting- 
ham was  later  emphasized  sim- 
ply because  it  was  a  larger, 
better- known  town.)  The  first  tales,  like 
that  of  the  knight  in  debt  to  the  abbot,  had  a 
knightly  flavor  that  seems  suited  to  a  1 3th- 
century  audience.  And  it  is  likely  that 
the  tales  have  at  their  base  a  real  outlaw. 
An  exciting  new  lead  has  recently  been 
found  by  Dr.  David  Crook  of  the  Public 
Record  Office,  London.  Dr.  Crook  has 
now  found  yet  another  Robinhood  sur- 
name (which  is  the  subject  of  a  note  by 
him  shortly  to  appear  in  English  Historical 
Review).  The  name  occurs  in  the  Memo- 
randa Roll  of  the  King's  Remembrancer  of 
1262,  where  the  Prior  of  Sandleford, 
Berkshire,  was  pardoned  a  penalty  im- 
posed on  him  for  seizing  the  chattels  of 
one  William  "Robehod,"  fugitive. 

That  mention  advances  the  earliest  of 
such  names  by  a  matter  of  34  years.  And 
it  has  proved  to  be  of  much  greater  sig- 
nificance. For,  by  the  luckiest  chance  of 
survival,  the  entry  on  the  Memoranda  Roll 
can  be  matched  with  an  entry  on  the  roll  of 
the  Justices  in  Eyre  in  Berkshire  in  1261. 
The  Eyre  entry  is  an  indictment  of  a  crimi- 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


nal  gang,  both  men  and  women,  suspected 
of  robberies  and  the  receiving  of  robbers, 
who  had  fled  the  jurisdiction  of  the  court 
and  were  outlawed.  They  included 
William,  son  of  Robert  le  Fevere 
(Fevre  =  Smith),  and  there  is  no  doubt, 
considering  the  precise  details  available, 
that  this  man  and  the  William  Robehod  of 
the  Memoranda  Roll  are  one  and  the  same. 

Quite  simply,  somewhere  along  the 
administrative  chain  between  the  Justices 
in  Eyre  and  the  Remembrancer  in  the 
Exchequer,  one  of  the  clerks— perhaps 
even  the  Remembrancer's  clerk— changed 
the  name.  And  what  led  the  clerk  to  do  so 
was  the  fact  that  William  son  of  Robert 
was  a  member  of  an  outlaw  gang  indicted 
for  robbery.  The  outlaw  became  William 
Robehod. 

The  clear  inference  is  that  the  man  who 
changed  the  name  knew  of  the  legend. 
And  thus  the  earliest  reference  to  Robin 
Hood  as  a  legendary  figure  must  now  be 
taken  to  be  not  1377  (Piers  Ploughman), 
but  1261-2.  In  all  senses,  that  is  an  enor- 
mous advance. 

This  discovery  by  Dr.  Crook  demon- 
strates beyond  serious  doubt  that  Robin 
Hood  surnames  did  indeed  derive  from  the 
legend,  rather  than  the  reverse.  But  its  im- 
portance stretches  far  beyond  that.  First, 
the  new  discovery  imposes  strict  limits  on 
the  search  for  a  historical  Robin:  All  can- 
didates later  than  1261-2  can  now  be 
firmly  eliminated.  Much  Robin  Hood 
scholarship  concerned  with  es- 
tablishing him  in  south  York- 
shire in  the  1320s  must  now  be 
jettisoned.  Robert  Hod,  fugi- 
tive of  the  York  justices  in 
1225,  now  has  a  clearer  field; 
indeed,  the  nickname  that  he 
was  given  on  the  rolls  in  1226, 
"Hobbehod,"  may  well  reflect 
the  emergence  of  the  legend. 

Old,  well-known  evidence, 
which  has  been  played  down  in 
recent  years,  suddenly  looks  re- 
freshed. The  Scottish  historian 
John  Major,  writing  in  1521, 
believed  that  Robin  Hood  and 
Little  John  were  active  in 
1193-4.  A  tomb  with  epitaph 
that  survived  at  Kirklees  in  the 
late  17th  century  recorded  that 
Robin  died  in  1247.  The  per- 
sistence with  which  these  and 
other  sources  associated  Robin 
with  the  late  12th  and  early 
13th  centuries  is  now  explica- 
ble. John  Major  was  probably 
right,  and  many  modern 
scholars  are  proved  wrong. 


A  second  consequence  of  Dr.  Crook's 
discovery  will  be  more  difficult  to  assess. 
Until  now  literary  scholars,  relying  on 
1377  as  a  rough  point  of  origin  for  the 
legend,  have  assumed  very  reasonably  that 
the  analogues  that  the  tales  of  Robin  share 
with  the  knightly  romances  of  the  13th 
century  arose  in  the  earlier  knightly  ro- 
mances of  Fulk  fitz  Warin  and  Eustace  the 
Monk  and  spread  to  the  later  yeoman  bal- 
lads of  Robin  Hood.  It  now  appears  that 
romances  and  ballads  all  took  shape  at  one 
and  the  same  time;  it  is  easier  to  under- 
stand how  they  came  to  share  material,  but 
it  can  no  longer  be  so  certain  which  was 
the  source  and  which  the  recipient.  The 
earlier  the  Robin  Hood  legend  is  pressed, 
the  more  original  it  is  likely  to  be. 

A  third  consequence  is  even  more  im- 
portant. If  any  real  Robin  Hood  existed,  it 
was  thought,  he  had  to  exist  before  1377, 
the  Piers  Ploughman  reference.  Early 
manuscript  tales  of  Robin  appearing 
around  1450  then  made  sense,  because  it 
seemed  reasonable  that  a  story  should  take 
50-odd  years  to  move  from  fireside  tale 
into  written  form.  But  an  interval  stretch- 
ing back  from  c.  1450  to  before  1261-2  is  a 
much  more  serious  gap.  The  inference  is 
that  the  stories  known  in  1261-2  by  the 
clerk  who  called  the  outlaw  William  son 

Perhaps  the  earliest  tale  of  all:  "Merry 

Robin  Stops  a  Sorrowful  Knight."  The 

Howard  Pyle  illustration  appears  in  the 

1925  edition  published  by  Scribner's. 


of  Robert  "Robehod"  were  probably  very 
different  from  the  diversified  tales  which 
appear  in  written  verse  from  the  middle  of 
the  15th  century. 

What  went  on  in  the  intervening  years? 
There  are  only  a  few  indications  of  what 
the  Robin  Hood  stories  contained  at  any 
particular  point.  In  1432,  for  instance,  the 
clerk  of  the  sheriff  of  Wiltshire  concocted 
an  acrostic  in  his  parliamentary  return  for 
the  county  that  associates  "Reynold"  with 
Robin's  gang:  From  that  clue,  it  seems 
certain  that  the  clerk  knew  the  tale  in 
which  Little  John  assumed  the  alias  of 
Reynold  Greenleaf— or  that  he  knew  some 
similar  yam.  The  tale  of  the  King's  visit  to 
Sherwood  is  plainly  based  on  the  progress 
of  Edward  II  through  the  northern  counties 
in  1323;  therefore  it  cannot  have  been  em- 
bodied in  the  legend  before  that  date.  Be- 
sides those  two  reasonably  fixed  points,  it 
is  possible  to  say  that  some  elements  in  the 
legend— such  as  the  tale  of  the  Knight  and 
the  Abbot  of  St.  Mary's,  with  its  connec- 
tions to  Bamsdale,  where  the  tales  are 
thought  to  have  begun— are  likely  to  have 
been  earlier,  others  later.  And  that  at 
present  is  all  we  can  say. 

Within  this  long  period  of  gestation 
there  are  continuous,  consistent  themes.  In 
1261-2  the  legend  was  known  to  a  clerk  at 
work  most  probably  in  the  Exchequer— in 
our  parlance,  the  clerk  was  a  civil  servant. 
So  the  legend  was  circulating  at  that  social 
level.  What  triggered  the  clerk's  con- 
sciousness was  not  a  tale  of 
some  heroic  medieval  proto- 
type of  Che  Guevara  but  the 
record  of  a  gang  of  outlawed 
criminals:  robbers  and  receiv- 
ers of  robbers.  The  same  state- 
ments can  be  made  about  the 
references  to  Robin  in  the  late 
14th  and  15th  century.  Such 
references  come  mostly  from  a 
middling  social  level  and  they 
are  largely  derogatory.  (The 
sheriff's  clerk  in  Wiltshire  in 
1432  is  apparently  the  first  to 
describe  Robin  as  a  good  man. 
He  included  in  his  acrostic  the 
phrase,  "Good  man  was  hee.") 
The  story's  origins  are  inter- 
mingled with  the  aristocratic 
and  gentle  household;  the  geo- 
graphic detail  both  in  the  tales' 
content  and  in  the  distribution 
of  personal  names  suggests  that 
one  great  household,  that  of 
Lacy/Lancaster,  played  a  role 
that  is  still  reflected  in  the  evi- 
dence. The  legend's  heroes  are 
yeomen— middling   household 


FEBRUARY  1984       XV 


officers,  youths  at  the  begin- 
ning of  their  careers.  The  tales 
are  remarkable  for  the  absence 
of  sex,  family,  and  family 
property.  They  were  retailed  by 
minstrels  who  passed  through, 
or  who  were  permanently  em- 
ployed by,  the  household. 

And  that  is  how  the  legend 
spread  and  changed.  Such 
households  were  itinerant. 
Yeomen  in  particular  ranged 
afar  as  archer-bodyguards, 
messengers,  sometimes  as  for- 
esters and  huntsmen.  Min- 
strels, above  all,  traveled,  per- 
forming not  only  before 
noblemen  and  gentry  but  also 
before  bishops,  in  monasteries, 
and  especially  in  the  market- 
place; anywhere,  indeed,  with 
a  sufficient  audience  to  suggest 
the  possibility  of  reward.  The 
legend's  resulting  diversifica- 
tion was  already  apparent  in  the 
first  surviving  tales.  There  are 
scenes  in  Robin  Hood  and  the 
Potter,  for  example,  that  would 
have  made  the  most  sense,  and 
perhaps  had  the  most  immedi- 
ate appeal,  to  the  folk  of  Nottingham. 

By  the  middle  of  the  14th  century, 
Robin  seems  to  have  been  invading  popu- 
lar iconography.  The  sculptures  in  the 
north  aisle  of  Beverly  Minster  (c.  1340), 
which  celebrate  the  Beverly  Guild  of  Min- 
strels, include  a  spandrel  carving  of  a  re- 
markably convincing  longbowman.  Fur- 
thermore, one  of  the  misericords  (c.  1430) 
in  St.  Mary's  Beverly,  which  was  the 
Guild's  church,  has  been  taken  by  some  to 
represent  Robin  Hood  and  the  King. 

The  most  important  development  of  all 
was  that  the  legend  overflowed  the  bounds 
of  minstrelsy  and  invaded  both  folk  festi- 
val and  theater.  Much  new  light  was  shed 
on  this  development  by  David  Wiles's  The 
Early  Plays  of  Robin  Hood  (Boydell  and 
Brewer,  1981).  Indeed,  Wiles  is  disposed 
to  argue  that  in  the  developing  tradition, 
the  plays  were  primary  and  the  ballads  sec- 
ondary. This  is  unlikely  to  be  accepted. 
Still,  Wiles  rightly  draws  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  first  recorded  performance  of 
a  Robin  Hood  play  took  place  before  the 
Mayor  of  Exeter  as  early  as  1427. 

Certainly  within  50  years  or  so  6f  that 
date  came  a  theatrical  development  that  in- 
volved Robin  Hood  in  the  May  Festival, 
first  as  a  participant  in  the  May  Games  and 
ultimately  as  King  of  May.  It  was  in  this 
last  development,  in  my  view,  that  Robin 
at  last— near  the  start  of  the  16th  century— 


"Robin  Shooteth  his  Last  Shaft;'  by 

Pyle.  ".  .  .  and  sett .  .  .  mine  arrowes  at 

myfeete"  says  Robin  in  the  Gest. 

acquired  the  reputation  of  robbing  the  rich 
to  give  to  the  poor. 

The  celebration  of  the  Spring  Festival 
is,  of  course,  very  ancient.  In  medieval 
England  it  began  with  youths  and  maidens 
returning  from  the  woods  at  dawn  on  the 
first  May  morning,  adorned  with  sprigs, 
branches,  and  flowers.  As  they  processed, 
they  decorated  houses  and  sought  payment 
for  their  display.  This  collection,  "gather- 
ing," or  quete  was  an  almost  inevitable 
concomitant  of  such  processions. 

Now,  what  could  be  more  natural  than 
that  the  most  famous  human  denizen  of  the 
greenwood  should  accompany  the  youth 
on  their  return?  And  what  more  suitable 
role  was  there  for  the  most  successful  of 
all  robbers  than  that  he  should  be  put  to  the 
charitable  purpose  of  conducting  the 
quete?  For  that  is  plainly  what  Robin  did. 

Robin  Hood's  gatherings,  which  begin 
to  appear  in  local  records  before  the  end  of 
the  15th  century,  are  not  riotous  assem- 
blies of  men  but  charitable  collections  of 
money.  In  some  southern  townships,  espe- 
cially at  Reading  and  Kingston  upon 
Thames,  these  celebrations  were  con- 
trolled by  the  church  wardens  and  are  re- 
corded in  their  accounts.  At  Kingston,  the 
wardens  provided  for  the  expense  of  the 


display:  Kendal  (green)  cloth 
for  Robin,  Little  John,  and 
Maid  Marian,  white  cloth 'tor 
the  Friar,  and  other  items.  The 
wardens  received  sums  from 
the  gathering. 

And,  perhaps  most  signifi- 
cant of  all,  the  wardens  ac- 
counted for  expenditures  on 
items  that  indicate  how  the 
gathering  was  done  and  how 
many  contributions  were  ex- 
pected: in  1506,  4s.  2d.  to  John 
Painter,  who  supplied  1,000 
"liveries"  or  badges,  3s.  8d.  to 
William  Plott,  who  supplied 
1,200  "liveries  and  40  great," 
and  lOd.  to  the  same  for  2,500 
pins.  Robin  had  become  the 
central  figure  in  a  flag-day. 

A  flag-day  is  an  occasion, 
now  almost  peculiar  to  Britain, 
in  which  ladies  of  charitable  in- 
stincts conduct  well-organized 
collections  by   selling   lapel 
flags   or  badges— in   aid   of 
wounded  veterans  before  Re- 
membrance Sunday  (when  the 
badge  is  a  Flanders  poppy),  or 
for  the  national  Life-Boat  Ser- 
vice, or  for  national  societies  for  the  pro- 
tection of  children  or  the  support  of  oi- 
phans. 

Robin  collected  from  those  who  had 
money  to  give  and  accounted  for  his  col- 
lection to  those  who  administered  the  char- 
itable funds  of  the  parish.  Thus  he  took 
from  the  rich  to  give  to  the  poor. 

This  could  have  happened  by  a  kind  of 
easy  elision  of  associations.  Or  it  could 
equally  have  been  the  brainstorm  of  some 
long-forgotten  church  warden  who  envis- 
aged exploiting  Robin's  reputation  for 
charity.  At  all  events,  it  left  an  enduring 
mark  on  Robin's  reputation. 

Something  else  also  endured.  At  Kings- 
ton in  1506  the  contributor  bought  a  pin  or 
livery  great  or  small.  The  livery  was  a  sign 
that  he  had  joined  Robin's  mesne,  band,  or 
company.  Those  who  buy  their  flags  on 
similar  charitable  occasions  today  rarely 
reflect  that  they  identify  themselves  with  a 
mark  that  originated  as  a  feudal  livery— or 
with  an  outlaw  hero. 

James  C.  Holt  is  the  author  of  Robin 
Hood  (Thames  and  Hudson,  1982).  Pro- 
fessor of  medieval  history  at  the  University 
of  Cambridge ,  where  he  is  also  master  of 
Fitzwilliam  College,  Holt  is  president  of 
the  Royal  Historical  Society.  He  first  be- 
came interested  in  Robin  Hood  when  he 
taught  at  the  University  of  Nottingham. 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


There 
Are  Jobs 
Out  There 

But  finding  them 
may  take  more  than 
a  degree,  say  five 
young  alumni. 

By  Ruth  Trask 

The  theme  of  WPFs  recent  annual 
Placement  Seminar  was  ominous 
enough:  "The  Student  Hits  Hard  Times." 
But  alumni  Judy  Nitsch.  '75.  Phil  Cam- 
eron, '79,  Fred  Rucker,  '81,  Jack  Zorabe- 
dian,  '72,  and  Michael  Graham,  '74,  told 
an  understandably  attentive  audience  of 
WPI  seniors  that  there  are  indeed  ways  to 
succeed  in  a  tough  job  market. 

First  came  a  humorous  "Star  Wars" 
slide  show  depicting  do's  and  don'ts  for 
job  seekers,  given  by  recruiter  Frank  Con- 
soli  of  Procter  &  Gamble.  Then  Dr.  Spen- 
cer Potter,  placement  director  at  Clark 
University,  moderated  the  main  event:  the 
alumni  panel  discussion,  arranged  by  Bill 
Trask.  WPI's  director  of  graduate  and  ca- 
reer plans. 

Fred  Rucker,  '81  ME,  a  manager  in  the 
equipment  engineering  department  for 
AT&T  Long  Lines,  advised  the  seniors, 
"Know  the  company  you're  interested  in. 
Know  yourself.  Sell  yourself.  Be  honest 
enough  to  let  the  recruiter  know  that  you 
want  to  succeed— that  you  want  to  earn 
money.  Don't  say  something  vague  about 
wanting  to  work  with  people." 

When  Rucker  started  with  AT&T,  he 
worked  in  operations.  Subsequently,  he 
held  an  engineering  and  management  post. 
He  is  now  moving  into  a  corporate  person- 
nel position  in  New  Jersey,  where  he  will 
employ  his  general  management  skills. 

"1  used  three  different  resumes  as  a  sen- 
ior," said  Phil  Cameron,  '79  CE.  a  senior 
project  engineer  at  Clairol.  "I  wanted  to 
keep  my  options  open."  First,  he  asked 
himself,  "What  kind  of  company  would 
use  a  civil  engineer?  How  could  I  fit  in?" 

Cameron  not  only  was  interested  in 
hearing  the  recruiters'  questions,  but  also 


Frederick  Rucker,  '81  ME,  and  Michael  Graham,  '74  MG,  responding  to  questions  at  a 
recent  recruiting  workshop  on  campus. 


turned  the  tables.  "1  asked  them  about 
their  experiences  with  the  company." 

He  admits  it  may  seem  odd  that  a  CE 
works  for  Clairol,  but  he  found  what  he 
wanted  at  Clairol  in  general  management. 
Initially  a  project  engineer  concerned  with 
new  products,  he  later  became  an  on-line 
supervisor  in  packaging  and  worked  in  in- 
dustrial engineering. 

"By  the  time  I  returned  in  April  from 
my  senior  semester  in  London."  Judy 
Nitsch,  '75  CE,  said,  "the  recruiters  were 
gone.  I  contacted  companies  on  my  own." 

One  company  she  wrote  was  Schofield 
Brothers,  Inc.,  Consulting  Engineers  and 
Land  Surveyors  in  Framingham,  MA.  "A 
WPI  graduate  hired  me  as  a  project  engi- 
neer." Within  three  years  she  was  named 
vice  president  of  a  Schofield  division. 
Freeman  Engineering  Co.,  in  Attleboro. 
In  1982  she  joined  Allen  &  Demurjian, 
Inc.,  Consulting  Engineers.  Architects 
and  Land  Surveyors,  Boston,  which  re- 
cently promoted  her  to  vice  president. 

Nitsch  emphasized  that  small  compa- 
nies, like  Schofield  and  Allen  &  Demur- 
jian, should  not  be  overlooked.  "They're 
easy  to  check  out  and  they  may  give  you 
job  offers  sooner  than  larger  ones! " 

Michael  Graham,  '74,  has  a  BS  in  man- 
agement engineering  from  WPI  and  an 
MBA  from  RPI.  "But  I  didn't  go  directly 
from  WPI  to  RPI."  he  reported.  "I  feel  it's 
a  mistake  to  start  on  your  MBA  as  soon  as 
you  graduate.  Get  some  professional  expe- 
rience first." 

Like  Judy  Nitsch.  Graham  believes  that 
small  companies  have  much  to  offer,  in- 


cluding "the  chance  for  rapid  advance- 
ment." In  1974.  he  joined  Albany  Interna- 
tional, a  high-tech  fabric  company,  rising 
quickly  through  the  ranks. 

In  1980.  he  became  affiliated  with 
Bausch  &  Lomb,  a  manufacturer  of  con- 
tact lenses,  ophthalmic  products  and  scien- 
tific instruments.  At  31,  he  is  a  corporate 
director  of  compensation  and  benefits. 

He's  now  also  studying  evenings  for  his 
PhD  in  industrial  and  organizational  psy- 
chology at  RPI.  "Working  full  time  and 
studying  part  time  has  been  a  successful 
formula  forme." 

"You  may  not  stick  with  your  first  job 
for  life,"  said  panelist  Jack  Zorabedian, 
'72,  a  chemical  engineer  and  quality  assur- 
ance manager  for  new  products  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation.  "While  you're 
with  your  first  company,  get  all  the  experi- 
ence you  can." 

Zorabedian  stressed  that  mechanical  and 
chemical  engineers  should  not  be  afraid  to 
look  at  nontraditional  companies  for  jobs. 
High-tech  firms  hire  MEs.  he  said,  for 
cabinetry  and  boxing,  and  chemical  engi- 
neers for  the  manufacture  of  circuit  boards 
and  coatings.  "As  a  matter  of  fact."  he 
continued,  "there's  less  competition  for 
chemical-engineering  applicants  at  high- 
tech  firms  than  at  chemically  oriented 
companies." 

Jack  urged  the  seniors  to  highlight  their 
achievements  on  their  resumes.  "If  you've 
had  a  summer  job,  co-op  or  project  experi- 
ence, say  so,"  he  said.  "Show  the  com- 
pany that  you  have  a  record  of  getting 
things  done.  It's  vital  to  your  job  search." 


FEBRUARY  1984        ^ 


Riding  the 
Space  Shuttle 

Student  projects  will  really  get  off  the  ground 
soon,  with  a  little  help  from  a  friend. 


Space,  says  Robert  Labonte,  '54  EE, 
"for  all  its  allure,  its  mystique,  its 
potential  for  enriching  the  human  en- 
deavor, remains  a  pretty  unneighborly 
place  for  the  engineer." 

Labonte  is  Associate  Department  Head 
for  Systems  Architecture  at  MITRE  Cor- 
poration, a  nonprofit,  government-sup- 
ported firm  that  performs  systems  engi- 
neering work.  Entering  and  using 
space— perhaps  our  most  foreign  and  dis- 
tant of  research  laboratories— present  un- 
precedented challenges,  he  says.  In  that 
grand  and  weightless  void,  up  is  down  and 
down  is  up.  Yet,  as  we  know,  space  can 
provide  many  conditions  ideal  for  devel- 
oping and  testing  advanced  industrial,  ag- 
ricultural, medical  and  other  technologies. 

Sometime  in  1985,  NASA's  Space  Shut- 
tle will  once  more  thunder  aloft,  ferrying  a 
precious  payload  of  experiments  adapted 
especially  to  the  rigors  of  space  flight. 

Nestled  near  the  center  of  its  huge,  60- 
foot-long  cargo  bay  will  be  a  five-cubic- 
foot  canister.  Its  200-pound  cargo  will 
consist  of  five  experiments  designed,  built 
and  tested  not  by  industrial  engineers  or 
government  scientists,  but  by  some  of 
WPI's  most  creative  and  adventurous  un- 
dergraduates. The  sponsoring  role  of 
MITRE  in  this  enterprise  is  vital  to  the 
project's  success.  Labonte's  part  in  the 
program  has  been  indispensable. 


One  of  these  self-contained  experiments 
will  be  a  solid-state  multispectral  Earth- 
imaging  system— in  lay  terms,  a  sophisti- 
cated device  to  be  used  in  observing  and 
recording  from  space  such  earthbound 
phenomena  as  agricultural  problems, 
weather  patterns,  earthquake  activity  and 
mineral  deposits. 

This  project  is  the  work  of  junior  Gerard 
Earabino  of  Syracuse,  NY,  and  seniors 
David  Dymek  of  Fitchburg,  MA,  Fred- 
erick Gummow  of  Middlebury,  MA,  Peter 
Schibly  of  Green  Bay,  WI,  and  Eric  Thune 
of  Brooklyn,  NY. 

"Where  the  technology  of  our  imager 
departs  from  that  of  conventional  sys- 
tems," says  Thune,  "is  in  how  images  are 
recorded."  Virtually  every  satellite  imager 
ever  developed,  he  says,  has  relied  on  ei- 
ther film  or  an  electrical  or  electromechan- 
ical scanning  system.  Military  reconnais- 
sance satellites,  for  example,  often  use  a 
film  canister  which,  when  fully  exposed, 
is  jettisoned  back  to  Earth  to  be  retrieved 
and  developed. 

WPI's  solid-state  "camera,"  says  team- 
mate Dymek,  has  just  three  moving  parts, 
needs  little  power  and  is  less  likely  to 
break  down  under  the  tremendous  vibra- 
tions of  blastoff  and  re-entry  from  space. 
It's  also  smaller  and  lighter  than  its 
mechanical  counterparts,  weighing  just 
18  pounds. 


Students  Eric  Thune  (left),  Gerard  Eara- 
bino, Peter  Schibley  and  David  Dymek 
work  on  an  Earth-imaging  system.  At 
right.  Prof.  Fred  Looft  (seated)  and 
Robert  Labonte  want  to  place  five  student 
projects  on  a  Space  Shuttle  mission. 

The  MITRE-WPI-Space  Shuttle  proj- 
ects are  part  of  NASA's  Small  Self-Con- 
tained  Payloads  program— best  known  as 
the  Get  Away  Special  (GAS).  Professor 
Fred  Looft,  EE,  heads  the  WPI  program, 
which  has  come  to  be  called  the  GAS- 
CAN(ister)  Project. 

Looft  is  as  exacting  a  chief  adviser  to 
the  40  GASCAN  project  students  as  he  is 
an  administrator.  "Working  with  NASA," 
he  says,  "you  have  to  be.  My  job  and  that 
of  the  17  or  so  other  faculty  advisors  is  to 
ensure  the  highest  possible  quality  in  each 
experiment  while  staying  within  budget 
and  on  schedule."  It's  a  real  challenge,  but 
Looft  seems  to  have  the  right  stuff  for  the 
job:  he  has  twice  been  an  applicant  for  one 
of  the  most  exclusive  fraternities  of  all— a 
NASA  flight  team.  "I  may  give  it  one 
more  try,"  says  the  fit,  bearded  Looft. 

Construction  of  the  Earth  imager  began 
in  October  1983.  By  spring,  says  Looft,  a 


34       WPI  JOURNAL 


working  prototype  will  be  completed.  At 
that  time,  like  other  GASCAN  projects,  it 
will  be  turned  over  to  a  new  project  team, 
who  will  develop  the  imaging  system  that 
will  actually  go  aboard  the  Shuttle. 

Says  Labonte  of  MITRE,  "Teamwork  is 
the  key  here.  MITRE  is  providing  finan- 
cial and  professional  support;  the  students 
work  over  several  years  to  put  a  working 
system  into  space. 

"At  MITRE,  we're  interested  in  study- 


ing all  of  the  operations  involved  in  devel- 
oping, launching  and  retrieving  experi- 
mental packages  using  NASA  space 
vehicles."  The  company,  he  adds,  is  also 
committed  to  providing  students  opportu- 
nities for  professional-level  work  in  this 
area.  "We  simply  saw  a  fit  between  our 
objectives  and  those  of  WPI  when  we  of- 
fered to  donate  the  canister  and  our  techni- 
cal advice  for  student  research." 
Says  Looft,  "These  projects  are  for  real. 


They  call  on  students  to  prepare  and  de- 
fend proposals,  meet  strict  schedules,  inte- 
grate system  elements  and  honor  cost 
guidelines." 

In  all,  11  projects  have  been  selected  for 
further  work.  Eight  are  actual  experi- 
ments, such  as  one  to  determine  whether  a 
gravity-free  environment  promotes  the 
growth  of  large  zeolite  crystals.  Another 
will  develop  a  mechanical  method  for  gen- 
erating energy  in  space,  using  a  non-chem- 
ical, non-photovoltaic  method. 

The  remaining  three  projects  will  pro- 
vide support  for  the  technical  experiments. 
One  will  develop  and  integrate  a  structure 
within  the  canister  to  support  the  five  ex- 
periments—no trivial  undertaking  itself. 
Another  team  is  publishing  biannually  the 
Get  Away  Special  Journal,  to  keep  all  con- 
cerned parties  well  informed  of  the  pro- 
gram's progress.  The  journal  is  especially 
vital  since  several  successive  teams  will 
work  on  each  project. 

"We've  encouraged  projects  that  are  not 
simply  repeats  of  previous  space  experi- 
ments," says  Looft.  "These  students, 
some  of  our  best,  must  develop  and  test 
prototypes,  build  the  space  flight  hard- 
ware, integrate  the  experiments  into  the 
GAS  canister,  launch,  monitor  and  recover 
the  packages,  and  finally  analyze  post- 
flight  data.  You  begin  to  understand  why 
this  is  a  multi-year  program." 

"You  might  ask,"  says  Labonte, 
"whether  engineering  students  are  capable 
of  proposing,  designing  and  developing 
equipment  that  can  withstand  the  rigors  of 
space  flight  and  meet  NASA  safety  and 
design  standards.  We  would  say  emphati- 
cally, YES!" 

Adds  Looft,  "Although  faculty  dedica- 
tion is  vital,  we're  not  saying  that,  when  a 
problem  occurs,  a  faculty  member  will 
step  in  to  solve  it.  We  try  to  help  students 
envision  answers  to  difficult  problems  and 
broaden  their  perspectives— by  bringing 
science,  for  example,  into  engineering. 
But  the  experimental  protocols  have  been 
proposed  by,  and  will  be  developed  and 
implemented  by,  the  students,  not  the 
staff." 


FEBRUARY  1984        35 


WPI  CLASS  NOTES 


\\  PI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Harry  W.  Tenney.  '56 
Senior  Vice  President. 

Donald  E.  Ross.  '54 
Vice  President, 

Paul  W.  Bayliss.  '60 
Secretary-Treasurer, 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann, 


'55 


Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 

Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61;  Walter  J.  Bank.  '46: 

William  J.  Firla.  Jr.,  '60; 

JohnM.  McHugh,  '56 

Fund  Board 

Gerald  Finkle,  '57,  Chair 

Allen  H.  Levesque.  '59,  Vice  Chair 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin.  Jr.,  '56 

Richard  A.  Davis,  '53 

Gerald  T.  Dyer,  '56 

C  John  Lindegren.  Jr.,  '39 

Philip  H.  Puddington.  '59 

George  P.  Strom.  '56 


1916 


J.  Arthur  Blair  is  currently  residing  in  a  Lu- 
theran retirement  home  in  Anaheim,  CA.  He 
says,  "The  weather  is  wonderful  here.  Ten 
times  better  than  in  Florida!"  One  of  his  sons 
lives  nearby,  and  a  secretary  comes  in  twice 
a  week  to  type  his  letters.  Prior  to  retirement, 
he  worked  42  years  for  Campbell  Soup  Co., 
Camden,  NJ. 

Carl  Burgess  writes  that  he  still  drives  his 
car.  Also,  he  "plays  an  adequate  game  of 
bridge  and  reads  almost  anything  that  is  avail- 
able in  print."  In  1964  he  retired  from  the 
Northern  Pacific  Railway  after  nearly  48  years. 
He  prefers  the  "harsh"  Minnesota  winters 
among  his  friends,  rather  than  traveling  to 
warmer  climates. 

Leslie  Chaffee,  of  Tacoma,  WA,  who  spent 
his  career  with  the  family  lumber  and  wooden 
box  business,  Chaffee  Brothers  Company,  Ox- 
ford, MA,  is  happy  that  he  retired  "in  this  glori- 
ous Northwest  with  its  wondrous  mountains." 
He  is  a  past  president  of  the  National  Wooden 
Box  Association.  Once  active  in  town  and 
church  affairs  in  Oxford,  he  is  a  former  vice 
president  of  the  Webster  National  Bank.  In 
Washington  he  has  been  a  SCORE  counselor 
for  the  Small  Business  Administration,  a  church 


trustee  and  an  active  member  of  the  Tacoma 
Engineers  Club. 

Tom  Delaney  says  that  he's  been  in  good 
health  generally  but  resents  getting  tired 
when  he  tries  to  do  physical  work.  He  had  a 
slight  stroke  recently  but  he  reports  that  now 
"it  seems  to  be  licked."  Delaney  resides  in 
Branford,  CT. 

Ray  Gambarano  has  a  number  of  hobbies: 
acrylic  painting,  and  making  furniture,  bird- 
houses  and  feeders,  as  well  as  clocks  of  all 
types.  Through  his  hobbies,  he  has  been  fea- 
tured in  the  local  newspaper  and  on  TV.  In  1928 
he  manufactured  some  of  his  inventions  in  the 
automotive  field  in  his  own  firm.  Rico  Mfg. 
Co.  In  World  War  II  the  company  started  doing 
tool  and  machine  work,  and  the  firm's  name 
became  Rico  Machine  Co.  Ray  invented,  de- 
signed and  built  several  types  of  machines.  He 
sold  the  company  in  1950. 

Roland  Home  retired  in  1948  after  32  years 
in  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  and  Geodetic  Survey, 
now  a  part  of  NOAA.  From  1949  until  1964, 
he  taught  engineering  subjects  at  Los  Angeles 
City  College,  where  he  "wound  up  as  associate 
professor."  The  Homes  reside  in  Auburn,  MA. 

In  1957,  after  41  years  of  service.  Merle 
Phipps  retired  from  Fiske  Carter  Construction 
Co.  During  his  career  he  helped  construct  many 
buildings  in  Massachusetts  as  well  as  in  the 
South,  including  schools,  churches  and  cotton 
mills.  Since  retirement  he  has  been  enjoying  "a 
little  hunting  and  fishing." 

C.  LeRoy  Storms,  Class  Secretary 


1924 


Reunion 


1927 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


"Ted"  Lewis,  father  of  the  annual  Shrine  Ma- 
ple Sugar  Bowl  football  game  between  New 
Hampshire  and  Vermont,  served  as  one  of  the 
honorary  grand  marshals  in  the  pre-game 
Shrine  parade  held  on  Aug.  13th.  Back  in  1954, 
when  Ted  was  Potentate  of  the  New  Hampshire 
Shrine,  he  thought  up  the  bowl  idea  as  a  vehicle 
for  raising  money  for  crippled  and  burned  chil- 
dren. Since  that  time,  about  $2  million  has  been 
raised  for  the  Shriners  Hospitals  for  Crippled 
and  Burned  Children  from  the  annual  rivalry. 


1929 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


1930 


David  Bragg,  a  retired  35-year  employee  of  the 
Foxboro  Co.,  was  recognized  as  a  50-year 
member  of  the  ASME  at  the  October  meeting 
of  the  Boston  section  of  the  society.  Bragg  spent 
most  of  his  Foxboro  career  with  the  research 
department.  He  is  the  co-holder  of  one  patent. 

On  July  14th.  Ed  Delano  placed  first  in  the 
men's  75-79  age  group  in  the  U.S.  Cycling 
Federation  National  Time  Trial  Championships 
held  in  Tallahassee,  FL.  Says  Ed,  "I  beat  eight 
riders  out  of  1 16  who  were  30  and  above;  six 
riders  out  of  ten,  60  and  above;  and  four  riders 
out  of  five,  70  and  above." 

Catherine  and  John  Lampron,  Jr.,  of  West 
Springfield,  MA,  observed  their  50th  wedding 
anniversary  on  Oct.  12.  1983,  with  their  two 
daughters,  sons-in-law  and  five  grandchildren 
on  hand  for  the  celebration.  John,  who  is  recu- 
perating from  a  serious  illness,  would  enjoy 
hearing  from  his  classmates. 

George  Perreault  is  now  living  at  a  nursing 
home  in  Greenwich,  CT.  He  and  his  wife, 
Dorothy,  have  one  grandson  and  four  grand- 
daughters. 

Carl  Backstrom,  Class  Secretary 


1934 


Reunion 


1936 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Ham  Gurnham  reports  that  the  group  of  Sig 
Eps  who  started  a  chain  letter  44  years  ago  are 
still  corresponding  and  now  meeting  regularly. 
After  40  years  of  correspondence,  the  group 
met  in  1980  in  Williamsburg,  VA;  in  1981  in 
Bermuda;  in  1982  in  Myrtle  Beach,  SC;  and  in 
1983  in  Charleston,  SC.  "In  June  of  1985  we 
plan  to  meet  in  Mystic,  CT,  immediately  fol- 
lowing reunion  weekend,"  he  says.  Included  in 
the  "Round  Robin"  group  are  Dick  Howes, 
who  thought  up  the  idea  in  1940,  Harry  An- 
derson, Perry  Clark,  Harold  Whitman,  Len 
Humphrey,  '35,  Dick  Merriam,  '35  and 
Herb  Gale,  34. 


1939 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Arthur  Mallon,  a  retired  senior  staff  engineer 
from  the  EPA,  has  received  a  life  membership 


36       WPI  JOURNAL 


in  the  National  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers. 


1940 


Robert  Hewey,  a  member  of  the  Bridgeport 
(CT)  chapter  of  the  Service  Corps  of  Retired 
Executives  (SCORE),  is  helping  to  set  up  a 
SCORE  walk-in  branch  in  the  Danbury  area 
that  might  serve  as  a  starter  for  a  local  chapter. 
He  attended  the  Harvard  Advanced  Manage- 
ment Program  and  has  had  extensive  experience 
in  manufacturing  and  technical  operations  with 
the  Berol  Corp.  in  Danbury,  Curtiss  Wright  and 
Singer.  Before  retirement  he  was  vice  president 
of  manufacturing  for  the  Sprague  Meter  Divi- 
sion of  Textron,  Inc. 


1942 


The  Newington  (CT)  Town  Council  recently 
adopted  a  resolution  honoring  E.  Curtis  Am- 
bler, who  has  retired  from  town  politics.  He 
had  served  10  years  on  the  council,  12  years  on 
the  town  planning  and  zoning  commission  and 
35  years  with  the  Newington  Volunteer  Fire 
Department. 


1943 


In  September,  Leonard  Hershoff  retired  from 
IBM  in  Kingston,  NY,  and  moved  from  Lake 
Katrine  to  the  Greenbriar  I  retirement  develop- 
ment in  Brick,  NJ. 


1944 


Reunion 


1946 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Currently,  Bernard  Beisecker  is  director  of 
manufacturing  for  Industrial  Fasteners  on  Long 
Island,  NY. 


1947 


George  Bernard,  Jr.,  is  president  of  Magnat 
Corp.  of  Easthampton  and  Florence,  MA, 
which  has  developed  and  is  marketing  a  newly 
engineered  belt  dewatering  press  called  the 
"HX>  Express."  The  machine  is  specifically  de- 
signed for  removing  water  from  any  paper 
sludge/slurry. 


1948 


Allen  Mintz  reports  that  his  wife.  Ruby,  and 
son,  Howard,  won  low  net  and  were  one  off  for 
low  gross  (among  many)  at  the  WGAM 
Mother-Son  Tourney  held  at  Pembroke  (MA) 
Country  Club  in  August. 
Romeo  J.  Ventres  has  been  elected  an  exec- 


utive vice  president  of  Borden,  as  well  as  presi- 
dent of  the  chemical  division.  He  also  was 
named  a  member  of  the  office  of  the  chairman. 
Previously,  he  was  a  group  vice  president  of  the 
chemical  division,  responsible  for  adhesives, 
energy  resources  and  Canadian  chemical  opera- 
tions. Starting  with  the  division  in  1957  as  a 
project  engineer,  he  was  subsequently  advanced 
to  general  manager  of  thermoplastic  operations 
and  vice  president  of  the  division.  Before  join- 
ing Borden,  he  was  employed  as  an  oil-industry 
engineer  in  the  Middle  East  and  by  Atlantic 
Refining  Co.  in  the  U.S. 


1949 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Elzear  Lemieux,  a  consultant  for  the  M.W. 
Kellogg  Co.,  Houston,  TX,  wrote  "Data  for 
Tower  Baffle  Design,"  which  appeared  in  the 
September  issue  of  the  magazine  Hydrocarbon 
Processing.  He  started  with  Kellogg  in  1950 
•and  has  had  numerous  engineering  and  supervi- 
sory assignments.  He  holds  BS  and  MS  degrees 
in  chemical  engineering  from  WPI  and  a  BA 
from  Assumption.  A  licensed  professional  en- 
gineer in  New  York  and  Texas,  he  is  also  a 
member  of  the  AIChE  and  Sigma  Xi. 

Sidney  Madwed  is  with  Attitude  Developers 
and  Consultants  in  Bridgeport,  CT. 


1950 


Tejinder  Singh,  general  manager  of  Bharat  Pe- 
troleum Corp.,  Ltd.,  Bombay,  India,  visited 
WPI  last  summer  while  on  a  three-month  trip 
around  the  world. 


1952 


Dick  Bennett  has  been  named  a  new  account 
executive  in  the  Palm  Beach  (FL)  office  of  Ri- 
chardson Greenshields  Securities,  the  U.S.  af- 
filiate of  one  of  Canada's  largest  brokerage 
firms.  Following  a  career  as  a  civil  engineer 
working  on  pipeline  and  turnpike  construction, 
Dick  began  as  an  investment  professional  in 
1966.  He  spent  five  years  with  the  Florida  firm 
of  Alan  Bush. 


1953 


Currently,  George  Crozier  serves  as  director 
of  projects  and  vice  president  of  Monsanto  En- 
viro-Chem  Systems  and  as  president  of  Leonard 
Construction  Company,  both  wholly  owned 
subsidiaries  of  Monsanto.  It  was  incorrectly  re- 
ported in  the  August  Journal  that  he  was  a  vice 
president  of  Monsanto. 

George  Saltus  has  been  elected  to  the  board 
of  trustees  at  WPI.  He  is  a  director  at  AT&T 
Information  Systems  Engineering  for  design 
and  development  at  the  company's  Denver 
(CO)  laboratory.  He  also  serves  as  director  of 
the  Customer  Switching  Laboratory.  With  Bell 
since  1953,  George  has  been  involved  with  the 
design  of  switching  systems,  satellite  control 


and  missile  control  systems.  He  holds  seven 
patents  on  military  computer  circuits,  electronic 
key  telephone  systems  and  Picturephone  key 
telephone  systems. 


1954 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Sahl  Kabbani,  a  Saudi  Arabian  businessman, 
serves  on  the  board  of  directors  of  a  Muslim 
educational  and  religious  organization,  Dar  al- 
Islam,  located  in  Abiquiu,  NM.  The  focal  point 
of  the  20-family  colony  is  a  mosque  built  of 
clay,  mud,  straw  and  adobe  bricks,  the  only 
rural  Muslim  mosque  in  the  U.S. 

Following  many  years  as  president  of  his  own 
firm,  Wesley  Wheeler  has  rejoined  J.J.  Henry 
Co.,  Inc.,  as  vice  president.  The  Henry  organi- 
zation is  one  of  the  world's  largest  firms  of 
naval  architects,  marine  engineers  and  consul- 
tants. Wheeler's  most  recent  activities  include 
preliminary  design,  plan  approval,  construction 
supervision,  vessel  operations  and  marine 
marketing. 


1956 


Robert  Baer  is  president  of  M&M  Services  in 
Woodland,  CO.  He  has  his  MBA  from  UCLA. 


1958 


Donald  Abraham,  a  project  engineer  for  Na- 
val Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New  Lon- 
don, CT,  holds  a  patent  on  a  volume  reverbera- 
tion profiler. 

Richard  Lisbon  continues  as  director  of 
planning  at  Virginia  Commonwealth  University 
in  Richmond. 


1959 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


MARRIED:  Winthrop  Wassenar  and  Kathy 
McNally  on  June  4,  1983.  She  is  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  economics  at  Williams  College,  Wil- 
liamstown,  MA.  Last  year,  he  became  director 
of  the  physical  plant  at  Williams,  where  he's 
been  employed  for  18  years.  Wassenar,  who 
has  a  son  and  a  daughter,  likes  golf,  squash  and 
gardening. 

Bob  Berg,  president  of  Wesley  Corporation, 
Scottdale,  GA,  writes  that  he  is  on  three  civic 
boards  of  directors.  His  daughter,  Kimberly, 
graduated  with  high  honors  from  WPI  in  June, 
after  only  three  and  a  half  years.  His  son,  Eric, 
is  now  at  Vanderbilt  Graduate  Divinity  College. 

Currently,  Dr.  Dave  Evensen  is  head  of  a 
structural  analysis  section  at  Hughes  Aircraft, 
El  Segundo,  CA.  Daughter  Karen  is  a  computer 
scientist  with  Hughes  in  Irvine;  son  Craig  is  an 
electrical  computer  engineering  major  at  UC, 
Santa  Barbara;  and  Suzanne  attends  UC,  Santa 
Cruz.  His  wife,  Joanne,  is  a  teacher.  Last  Octo- 
ber Dave,  who  has  taught  at  UCLA  and  USC, 
presented  a  national  short  course  on  "Applied 


FEBRUARY  1984       37 


Structural  Dynamics"  in  both  the  L.A.  and 
Washington.  DC.  areas. 

Bill  Farnsworth  continues  as  a  plant  super- 
intendent with  Du  Pont  in  Victoria,  TX.  He 
writes,  "Hobbies  are  golf,  genealogy  and  rais- 
ing three  boys." 

Kent  Healy  is  now  operating  a  one-man  con- 
sulting office  on  Martha's  Vineyard.  He  will 
continue  developing  prefabricated  subsurface 
drains,  on  which  he  holds  a  joint  patent  with 
Mirafi.  Inc.  Previously  he  was  a  CE  professor 
at  the  University  of  Connecticut  for  19  years. 

For  the  past  four  years.  Bob  Hoag  has  been 
manufacturing  manager  for  Rosenthal  Technik, 
Inc.,  Providence,  RI.  The  product  line  includes 
technical  ceramic  packages  and  substrates  for 
the  electronics  industry.  The  Hoags  live  in  At- 
lleboro,  MA,  and  have  two  children.  Bob  says 
he's  retired  from  any  serious  basketball  but  en- 
joys jogging  and  golf. 

Tom  Humphrey  has  been  teaching,  re- 
searching, writing  and  consulting  with  MIT's 
Center  for  Transportation  Studies  for  nearly 
five  years.  One  daughter  just  graduated  from 
UMass;  another  graduated  from  the  Fashion  In- 
stitute of  Technology  in  NYC  and  works  for 
designer  Ralph  Lauren;  and  his  son  recently 
graduated  from  high  school.  The  family  likes  to 
travel,  ski  and  sail. 

Larry  Lavallee  has  started  a  new  job  as  a 
principal  engineer  in  the  radar  systems  division 
of  Raytheon's  Equipment  Development  Labs  in 
Way  land,  MA.  He  and  his  family  returned  from 
Kwajalein  Missile  Range  last  summer,  where 


he  had  been  a  radar  systems  engineer  with  the 
RCA  missile  and  surface  radar  division.  He 
says  they  will  miss  island  life,  including  scuba 
diving,  sailing,  karate,  etc. 

Last  year.  Bob  Massad  traveled  to  West  Ger- 
many and  Mexico  City  on  business.  "Actually  I 
spend  a  lot  of  time  traveling  throughout  the 
U.S.  and  Canada,  too,"  he  says.  He  has  been  a 
senior  product  engineer  for  Diamond  Products. 
Bay  State  Abrasives  (Dresser  Industries)  since 
1968.  He  says  he  always  travels  with  his  golf 
shoes! 

Win  Priem  serves  as  managing  director  of 
the  National  Financial  Services  Search  Divi- 
sion, as  well  as  senior  officer  of  Korn/Ferry 
International,  New  York  City.  Prior  to  joining 
the  firm  in  1976,  he  was  regional  director  of  the 
U.S.  Small  Business  Administration  for  the 
Northeast  and  had  been  vice  president  in  the 
national  division  of  Marine  Midland  Bank.  He 
has  an  MBA  from  Babson  and  is  an  alumnus  of 
the  Program  for  Management  Development  at 
Harvard  Business  School. 

Currently,  Bill  Saimond  is  manager  of  logis- 
tics operations  for  the  orbiter  fuel  cell  power 
plant  group  at  the  power  systems  division  of 
UTC  (formerly  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft). 
From  1969  until  1973  he  was  a  member  of  the 
Apollo  launch  team  in  Rockwell  International's 
fuel  cell/cryogenic  group.  He,  his  wife, 
Theresa,  and  three  children  reside  on  a  three- 
acre  gentleman's  farm  in  Collinsville,  CT. 

Morgan  Whitney  runs  the  Lansdale  (PA) 
plant  that  is  building  Ford  Motor  Company's 


Burton:  Cornell 
Engineering  College 
Developer  Retires 

Last  summer,  Malcolm  Burton,  '40  ME, 
one  of  the  foremost  developers  of  the  Col- 
lege of  Engineering  at  Cornell  University, 
retired  as  professor  emeritus.  He  had  been 
with  the  college  for  37  years. 

When  Burton  arrived  at  Cornell  the  En- 
gineering Quad  was  the  site  of  temporary 
barracks.  "Olin  Hall,  where  I  first  taught 
as  a  member  of  the  chemical  and  metallur- 
gical engineering  faculty,  was  the  only 
completed  building  of  the  projected  mod- 
ern engineering  campus,"  he  recalls. 

He  helped  plan  Bard  Hall,  built  in  1963 
to  house  what  is  now  the  Department  of 
Materials  Science  and  Engineering. 

While  with  the  college  administration. 
Burton  was  head  of  the  Division  of  Basic 
Studies.  As  associate  dean  of  the  college, 
he  had  special  responsibility  for  academic 
affairs.  He  was  also  director  of  the  Engi- 
neering Cooperative  Program.  Over  the 
years,  he  shepherded  the  college  and  its 
students  through  successive  changes  in 
programs,  adapting  curricula  to  emerging 
needs. 

His  professional  activities  have  included 
industrial  consulting,  and  his  publications 
include  a  textbook.  Applied  Metallurgy  for 
Engineers. 


Burton  at  Cornell 

Burton,  who  holds  his  MS  in  metallurgy 
from  MIT  and  taught  there  before  going  to 
Cornell  in  1946,  says  of  his  retirement.  "I 
want  to  continue  to  do  things  and  look  for- 
ward rather  than  back." 

It  is  that  spirit  that  has  prompted  Burton 
and  his  wife,  Hazel,  to  move  to  a  new 
home  near  their  children  in  northern  Cali- 
fornia. "I  plan  to  build  a  house  myself," 
he  says. 


new  vehicle  video  computer,  EEC-IV  which 
has  recently  been  featured  in  national  advertis- 
ing for  the  new  Tempo,  Topaz  and  Ranger.  He 
is  vice  president  of  Ford  Electronics  and  Re- 
frigeration Corporation. 

Geza  Ziegler  continues  as  director  of  manu- 
facturing for  Cognitronics  Corp.,  Stamford, 
CT.  Also,  he  is  still  vice  president  of  the  Long 
Ridge  Volunteer  Fire  Co. ,  as  well  as  director  of 
the  Danbury  branch  of  Bridgeport  Engineering 
Institute.  Besides  freelance  radio  programming, 
he  and  his  wife  enjoy  motorcycling.  She  is  a 
development  engineer  at  Norden  Systems  in 
Norwalk.  Three  of  their  four  children  are  in 
college. 

Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr. ,  Class  Secretary 


1960 


Governor  Michael  Dukakis  of  Massachusetts 
has  appointed  Martin  Beck  to  the  Massachu- 
setts Hazardous  Waste  Advisory  Committee. 
Beck  belongs  to  the  ACS  and  the  American 
Institute  of  Chemical  Engineers.  He  has  been 
employed  in  various  chemical  engineering  ca- 
pacities in  the  state,  as  well  as  in  Paris,  France 
and  Pampa,  TX. 

George  Beebe  serves  as  a  staff  engineer  at 
MIT  Lincoln  Laboratory  in  Lexington.  MA. 


1961 


"Rick"  Duval  is  president  of  U.S.  Petrocold 
Industrial.  Inc.,  in  Lincoln.  NE.  He  and  his 
wife.  Colleen,  have  five  children. 

Rimas  Zinas  was  recently  named  technology 
program  manager  for  control  systems  and  en- 
ergy in  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation's  steel 
group.  Zinas,  who  holds  two  ME  degrees  from 
WPI,  joined  the  company  in  1965  after  two 
years  with  the  U.S.  Army.  Originally  with  the 
research  department,  he  was  promoted  to  super- 
visor in  1971  and  in  1982  was  appointed  super- 
visor of  deformation  processes  and  applied 
mechanics. 


1962 


Bruce  Simmon  holds  the  post  of  director  of 
industry  development  at  Computer  Sciences 
Corp.  in  El  Segundo,  CA. 


1963 


Stephen  Kaufman  is  the  chief  executive  offi- 
cer at  Color  Technology,  Inc.,  Westboro.  MA. 
He  and  his  wife,  Lois,  have  two  children  and 
live  in  Sharon. 


1964 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Charles  Ennis,  a  professor  at  Thames  Valley 
State  Technical  College  in  Connecticut,  has 
been  selected  to  teach  Electricitx  /,  the  first 


38       WPI  JOURNAL 


course  in  an  engineering-related  area  offered  at 
Quinebaug  Valley  Community  Center  in  Da- 
nielson.  Ennis  is  a  professional  engineer  and 
holds  an  MS  degree  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut. 

Carl  Youngman  of  Newburyport.  MA,  has 
renovated  his  synagogue  hall  at  his  own  ex- 
pense as  a  tribute  to  his  father,  who  died  in  July. 
A  business  consultant.  Youngman  is  also  an 
officer  of  the  Doktor  Pet  Center  Corp.  and 
Command  Performance.  He  graduated  from 
Harvard  Business  School. 


1965 


Sidney  Klein  is  vice  president  of  sales  and  de- 
sign for  Lubin  Business  Interiors,  Inc.,  New 
Haven,  CT. 

Gerald  Morris  has  been  elected  a  member  of 
the  board  of  directors  of  South  Shore  Bank.  He 
is  vice  president-treasurer  of  the  Foxboro  (MA) 
Company.  With  Foxboro  since  1981 ,  he  has  his 
MBA  from  Harvard  and  is  a  member  of  the 
Financial  Executives  Institute,  the  Treasurers' 
Club  of  Boston  and  the  Harvard  C.S.A.  Advi- 
sory Council. 


1966 


John  Gilbert  recently  became  quality  manager 
of  Pratt  &  Whitney's  newest  factory  in  Colum- 
bus, GA.  He  writes:  "The  factory  will  be  an 
ultramodern  facility  with  extensive  robotics, 
computer  controls  and,  we  hope,  a  very  for- 
ward-looking management."  It  will  produce 
compressor  airfoils  and  disk  forgings  from  su- 
per alloys  for  company  engines. 

Dan  Maguire  has  received  his  MBA  from 
the  University  of  Chicago. 

Gerard  Toupin  has  been  named  to  the  new 
position  of  director  of  manufacturing  develop- 
ment of  the  Torrington  Co.  Cairo  (GA)  bear- 
ings plant.  He  had  been  plant  manager  since 
1979  and  joined  Torrington  in  1966  as  a  design 
engineer.  He  was  instrumental  in  the  planning 
and  construction  of  the  plant,  guiding  the  on- 
set of  production  as  its  first  manufacturing 
manager. 


1967 


George  Batten,  Jr.,  executive  director  of  West 
Essex  Community  Health  Services,  Inc.,  also 
serves  as  chairman  of  the  board  of  the  New 
Jersey  Hospice  Organization.  George,  who  has 
a  master's  degree  from  Cornell,  is  a  member 
and  legislative  chairman  of  the  Home  Health 
Agency  Assembly  of  New  Jersey.  The  West 
Caldwell  civic  leader  is  a  tennis  player,  jogger, 
skier  and  white-water  canoeist. 

Joseph  Cieplak,  who  has  his  MA  in  commu- 
nications from  Fairfield  University,  continues 
as  director  of  marketing  at  Page-Wilson  Corpo- 
ration, Bridgeport,  CT. 

Michael  Grilli  holds  the  post  of  vice  presi- 
dent at  Beta  Engineering,  Inc.,  Pawtucket,  RI. 

Travenol  Laboratories,  Inc.,  has  appointed 
Nelson  ("Skip")  Thune  as  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  for  its  Hyland  Therapeutics  Di- 
vision. With  the  firm  for  three  and  a  half  years. 


,0* 


<£? 


"If  a  day  is  a  week  here,  and  a  month  is  a  day,  and  a  year  is  an  hour,  how  are  they  going 
to  figure  our  pay?  " 


he  was  most  recently  director  of  manufacturing 
for  the  division. 


1968 


Wayne  Blanchard  continues  as  operations 
controller  for  Johnson  &  Johnson  in  New 
Brunswick,  NJ.  He  has  his  MBA  from  Illinois 
Benedictine  College,  Lisle. 

Victor  Calabretta,  Jr.,  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  vice  president  of  C.E.  Maguire.  Inc.. 
international  architects/engineers,  in  Provi- 
dence, RI.  He  will  direct  marine  and  port  activ- 
ities for  the  company.  Since  joining  Maguire  1 1 
years  ago.  he  has  been  concerned  with  domestic 
and  international  marine  and  port  facilities,  in- 
cluding a  large  ammunition  port  in  Guam.  A 
skilled  diver,  he  has  made  numerous  underwa- 
ter condition  surveys.  He  holds  a  BS  and  an 
MSCE  from  WP1  and  is  a  registered  engineer  in 
four  New  England  states  and  Louisiana.  Recog- 
nized for  publishing  six  engineering  papers,  in 
1979  he  received  the  Geotechnical  Group 
Award  from  the  Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engi- 
neers. 

Jeffrey  Hultman  is  a  counsel  for  Great 
Western  Savings,  Northridge.  CA.  He  has  a 


law  degree  from  Southwestern  University,  Los 
Angeles. 

John  Lunney  serves  as  an  electronics  engi- 
neer with  the  Department  of  the  Navy  in 
Arlington.  VA. 

Richard  Mayer  is  senior  project  manager  for 
James  River  Corporation  in  South  Hadley.  MA. 
Currently,  he  is  working  on  market  develop- 
ment and  business  strategy  for  a  new  electro- 
static film. 

John  Orciuch  works  as  project  manager  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Northboro.  MA. 


1969 


Reunion 


September  22,  1984 


Robert  Balcer  is  a  planning  consultant  for 
ARCO.  He  resides  in  Dallas,  TX. 

Charles  Doe  has  been  elected  an  assistant 
vice  president  and  associate  actuary  at  State 
Mutual  in  Worcester.  With  the  firm  since 
1969.  he  was  promoted  to  actuary  in  1979.  In 
1977.  he  was  named  a  fellow  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Northeastern. 

Stephen  Nagy,  who  has  his  MBA  from  Clark 


FEBRUARY  1984        39 


University,  is  now  a  senior  sales  representative 
for  Digital  in  Burlington,  MA. 

Jim  Rodier,  rate  research  manager  for  Public 
Service  of  New  Hampshire,  spoke  on  "Electri- 
cal Rates  of  PSNH"  at  the  September  meeting 
of  the  Cheshire  Accountants  Association  in 
Keene. 

Our  apologies  to  Steve  Zuckerman,  who 
was  listed  as  deceased  in  the  1982  edition  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Directory.  Steve  is  now  a  com- 
puter consultant  for  Prime  Computer  and  re- 
sides in  Brookline.  MA. 


1970 


A.  Patton  Abbe  serves  as  president  of  Hard- 
wood Furniture  Designs,  Inc..  in  Pompano 
Beach.  FL. 

Richard  Drolet  is  now  manager  of  the  sys- 
tems department  at  Valley  Resources,  Inc., 
Cumberland.  RI. 

Randy  Sablich  recently  left  Grumman  Aero- 
space and  is  currently  employed  as  vice  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  the  electromechan- 
ical systems  division  at  ABA  Industries  in 
Largo,  FL. 

John  Sztuka  is  district  sales  manager  for 
Hercules,  Inc.,  Mobile,  AL.  He  received  his 
MBA  from  Western  Michigan  University. 


1971 


MARRIED:  John  Niestemski  to  Susan  Bird  in 
Syracuse.  NY,  on  July  2,  1983.  She  graduated 
from  Syracuse  University  and  is  president  of 
Graphic  Masters,  Inc..  Fayetteville.  John  holds 
degrees  from  WPI  and  the  University  of 
Bridgeport  and  works  for  Genigraphics  Corp. 
of  Liverpool. 

BORN:  to  Barbara  and  Doug  Michel,  a 
daughter.  Laura,  on  July  4.  1983.  Brother  Scott 
is  now  3.  Doug  owns  and  operates  Doug  Mi- 
chel Construction  Co.,  Block  Island,  RI.  He  is 
also  a  commercial  fisherman. 

Michael  Armenia  is  program  manager  for 
Raytheon  Co.,  Portsmouth,  RI.  Also,  he  is  a 
lieutenant  commander  and  engineering  duty  of- 
ficer in  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve. 

Dr.  Claude  Mancel  continues  as  manager  of 
product  coordination  of  packaged  soap  and  de- 
tergent products  in  Europe  for  Procter  &  Gam- 
ble. He  and  his  family  reside  in  Belgium. 

Peter  Markunas  has  been  named  the  first 
director  of  public  works  in  Provincetown,  MA. 
Previously  he  was  a  mechanical  engineer  with 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation. 

Formerly  director  of  market  research  at  State 
Mutual,  Worcester,  Robert  Mills  was  recently 
elected  vice  president  and  associate  actuary  at 
the  firm. 

Dr.  Noel  Totti  III  is  a  staff  pneumologist  at 
the  VA  Medical  Center  in  San  Juan,  PR.  He 
and  his  wife,  Margarita,  have  three  children. 


1972 


Thomas  Ball  holds  the  post  of  senior  consul- 
tant at  Bank  of  America  in  San  Francisco. 

Jim  Hardy  is  now  an  optical  engineer  at 
Eastman  Kodak  in  Rochester,  NY.  Jim's  wife. 


WPPs  Own 
Marrying  Sam! 

Prof.  Roger  Borden,  '61,  of  WPI's  ME 
department,  marries  about  12  people  each 
year.  It's  all  perfectly  legal,  and  his  wife 
heartily  approves.  Prof.  Borden,  you  see, 
is  also  an  ordained  Methodist  minister. 

"I've  married  several  WPI  students  re- 
cently," he  says,  smiling.  "Including  Dick 
Coleman,  '80  CS,  and  Kathryn  Grider,  '80 
ME."  Borden  has  also  performed  wedding 
ceremonies  for  Anita  Draghetti  and  Leon 
Droby,  '82  ME,  and  Jean  Martin,  '81,  and 
Tom  Daniels,  '80  ME. 

It  is  evident  that  Borden  enjoys  his  stu- 
dents, whether  he  is  teaching  them  or  mar- 
rying them.  He  also  counsels  them.  Cur- 
rently chairman  of  the  Committee  on 
Student  Advising,  he  says,  "I  believe  stu- 
dent counseling  should  be  one  of  the  prime 
concerns  on  campus.  These  are  difficult 
times  for  young  people." 

Borden  has  long  been  interested  in  coun- 
seling and  in  the  pastoral  ministry.  Early 
on,  he  was  a  lay  pastor  for  several 
churches  in  the  Worcester  area.  Currently, 
he  is  part-time  pastor  for  the  East  Temple- 
ton  Church. 

His  area  of  professional  expertise  in- 
cludes internal  combustion  engines,  ex- 
haust emissions  and  electric  vehicles.  Two 
years  ago  he  was  selected  to  participate  in 
a  year-long  Department  of  Transportation 
program  on  Automotive  Emissions  and 
Economy  in  Cambridge. 


Professor  Roger  Borden  with  the  "For- 
mula Racer  Design,"  the  MPQ  of  Martin 
Riccirelli,  '83. 

Borden  and  his  wife,  Connie,  a  secre- 
tary at  Holy  Cross,  have  a  son,  Andrew, 
'82  MGE,  who  is  an  industrial  engineer  at 
George  Frost  Company  in  Shirley,  MA. 
Their  daughter,  Meredith,  a  junior  at  New 
England  Conservatory  of  Music,  per- 
formed as  a  singer-dancer  at  Busch  Gar- 
dens in  Williamsburg  last  summer. 


Mary,  works  for  the  Visiting  Nurse  Service. 
They  have  two  children,  Jon  and  Luke. 

Howard  Levine  is  affiliated  with  the  solar 
energy  project  at  Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas. 
In  1982  he  received  his  PhD  in  physics  from 
Rutgers. 


1973 


Ben  Allen,  who  received  his  MS  in  ocean  engi- 
neering from  URI  in  1982,  is  currently  a  senior 
engineer  at  Teledyne's  Brewer  Engineering 
Labs  in  Marion,  MA. 

Michael  Gipps  serves  as  senior  production 
engineer  at  Dow  Chemical  Co.,  Pittsburg,  CA. 

Dr.  Gerald  Izzi  is  a  physician  in  the  depart- 
ment of  internal  medicine  at  the  University  of 
Cincinnati  Medical  Center.  His  MD  is  from 
George  Washington  University. 

Richard  Nabb  now  holds  the  position  of 
plant  manager  at  Clairol,  Inc..  in  Camarillo, 
CA. 

Michael  Peterson  has  been  named  consumer 
services  representative  in  North  Adams  by 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  He  has  been  with 
the  utility  since  1980.  Before  assuming  his  new 
duties,  he  was  an  analyst  for  New  England 
Power  Service  Co..  Westboro.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Anna  Maria  College. 


Dr.  C.  Stephen  Szlatenyi,  who  has  his  MD 

from  Albany  Medical  College  of  Union  Univer- 
sity, is  a  physician  at  Rhode  Island  Hospital  in 
Providence. 

Angelo  Tsefrekas  was  recently  elected  presi- 
dent of  the  George  Jarvis  Chapter  No.  80  of  the 
Order  of  Ahepa.  He  is  president  of  Delta  Asso- 
ciates Realty,  Worcester. 

Michael  Varga  is  an  engineering  supervisor 
at  Barden  Corp.,  Danbury,  CT. 

Robert  Zawada,  associate  actuary  for  Sun 
Life  of  Canada,  Wellesley  Hills,  MA,  has  been 
designated  a  certified  employee  benefit  special- 
ist (CEBS)  by  the  International  Foundation  of 
Employee  Benefit  Plans  and  the  Wharton 
School  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania.  He 
qualified  for  the  designation  by  passing  ten  col- 
lege-level national  examinations  on  employee 
benefits  subjects. 


1974 


Reunion 


September  22, 1984 


MARRIED:  John  Palitsch  and  Mary  Beth 
Czubrynski  in  Worcester  on  May  29,  1983.  A 
Becker  graduate,  she  is  a  physical  therapist  at 
Worcester  City  Hospital.  John  is  with  Wy man- 
Gordon  Co..  North  Grafton.  MA. 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lawrence  Marti- 

niano  a  son.  Mark  Alan,  on  May  22,  1983. 

Dennis  Rock,  a  musician  and  former  audio 
faculty  member  of  the  Berklee  School  of  Mu- 
sic, teaches  a  hands-on-course  entitled  Record- 
ing Engineer  Workshop  at  MCM  Recording/ 
Video  Services.  Worcester's  only  professional 
recording  studio. 

Dean  Stratouly  is  vice  president  of  the  Con- 
gress Group  in  Boston,  MA.  He  has  his  MA  in 
business  management  from  Central  Michigan 
University. 


1975 


MARRIED:  Mark  Allen  and  Beth  Ann  Ny- 
gren  in  New  Britain,  CT.  on  July  23,  1983.  She 
graduated  from  Southern  Connecticut  State 
University  with  both  a  bachelor's  and  a  master's 
degree  and  teaches  at  the  Wheeler  Clinic. 
Plainville.  He  is  employed  as  a  project  manager 
for  Morganti,  Inc.,  Ridgefield.  .  .  .  David 
Huff  and  Lisa  Walters  in  Cocoa  Beach,  FL,  on 
September  16,  1983.  Lisa  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Georgia  and  is  business  manager 
of  Cocoa  Beach  Broadcasting,  Inc.  David 
serves  as  a  safety  engineer  with  Eastern  Space 
and  Missile  Center  at  Patrick  AFB.  .  .  .  Peter 
Joyce  to  Mary  Beth  Mclnerney  in  Madison, 
CT,  on  September  3,  1983.  She  graduated  from 
Albright  College,  Reading,  PA.  He  owns  Con- 
necticut Suzuki  in  Wallingford,  CT. 

Currently,  Alan  Bergstrom  is  a  staff  bio- 
chemist for  Merck.  Sharp  &  Dohme  Research 
Laboratories,  the  pharmaceutical  research  wing 
of  Merck  &  Co.  in  Rahway,  NJ.  He,  his  wife, 
and  two  children  reside  in  South  Plainfield. 

Richard  Bloom,  president  of  Independent 
Glass,  has  been  selected  for  a  three-year  term 
on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Rhode  Island 
Better  Business  Bureau  in  Providence.  With  the 
glass  company  since  1975,  he  was  elected  pres- 
ident in  1981. 

Richard  Caruso  is  now  a  process  engineer  at 
HRI.Inc.Gibbsboro,  NJ. 

Michael  DiMascio  continues  as  an  associate 
in  Firepro,  Inc.,  Wellesley  Hills,  MA. 

Denise  Gorski,  an  industrial  engineer  for 
IBM,  spent  several  weeks  last  spring  in  Japan  at 
an  IBM  worldwide  manufacturing  review.  On 
her  return  trip,  she  enjoyed  a  few  days  in  Ha- 
waii. Denise  serves  on  the  board  of  directors  for 
her  townhouse  complex  and  takes  evening 
courses. 

The  FIP  Corporation  has  promoted  David 
Shopis  to  vice  president  of  construction.  For- 
merly he  was  manager  of  project  operations  for 
the  firm.  He  attended  Virginia  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute and  received  an  MS  degree  in  building 
science  from  RPI. 

Frank  Sundermeyer  is  now  vice  president 
of  engineering  for  Electronic  Solutions,  Inc., 
Watertown,  CT. 

Patricia  Graham  Flahertw  Class  President 


1976 


MARRIED:  Brian  Swanson  and  Ruth  Rowan 
in  Grafton,  MA,  on  August  27,  1983.  Ruth 
graduated  from  Oberlin  (OH)  College  and  MIT 
and  is  a  product  manager  at  Norton  Co.,  Wor- 
cester. Brian  is  a  senior  research  engineer  at 


Norton.  .  .  .  Steven  Tucker  man  to  Dr.  Krys- 
tyna  DeLuca  in  Brookline.  MA.  on  August  20. 
1983.  She  graduated  from  Liverpool  University 
Medical  School.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
UMass.  Amherst,  and  is  a  town  planner  for 
East  Hampton,  CT.  .  .  .  Thomas  Zarrilli  and 
Suzanne  Kaminsky  in  Philadelphia,  PA,  on  Oc- 
tober 1,  1983.  Suzanne,  a  graduate  of  Moore 
College  of  Art,  is  import  manager  at  Ellen 
Tracy,  a  women's  sportswear  company.  Tom 
has  his  MBA  from  the  Wharton  School  of  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania  and  is  vice  presi- 
dent of  Sonnenblick  Goldman,  a  national  real 
estate  firm. 

Norman  Gariepy  has  been  elected  a  fellow 
of  the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Certified  Pub- 
lic Accountants,  Inc.  Currently  he  is  in  practice 
as  principal  with  his  office  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 
He  received  an  MS  in  accounting  from  North- 
eastern University. 

Paul  Grogan,  who  has  his  MS  from  Carne- 
gie-Mellon University,  is  a  teaching  assistant  at 
WPI. 

Diane  Gunn  serves  as  construction  engineer 
for  the  Smithsonian  Institution  in  Washington, 
DC 

Formerly  with  Arthur  Andersen,  Jim  Hall  is 
now  an  associate  in  management  systems  sup- 
port for  Index  Consulting. 

Raymond  Mandeville  serves  as  a  senior 
analysis  engineer  at  ITT  Grinnell  Corp.,  Provi- 
dence, RI. 

Charles  ("Rick")  Robinson,  senior  quality 
engineer  at  Micro-Switch  of  Marlborough, 
MA,  has  been  elected  to  the  ESNE  executive 
committee.  He  graduated  with  his  BSEE  from 
Tufts  and  his  MS  in  management  science  from 
WPI.  A  certified  quality  engineer,  he  is  a 
former  treasurer  of  the  Worcester  section  of  the 
American  Society  for  Quality  Control. 

Robert  Roy  IV  is  a  project  supervisor  for 
GTE-Sylvania  in  Needham  Heights,  MA. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Richard  Seidnitzer  and  Anita 
Lacaprucia  in  Springfield.  MA.  on  September 
23,  1983.  Anita  is  a  nutrition  majorat  Holyoke 
Community  College.  Richard  is  a  construction 
engineer. 

In  September,  Adolfo  Chandeck  began  a  12- 
month  assignment  at  IBM's  European  market- 
ing support  center  in  Greenford,  England. 

Bill  Cloutier  is  a  senior  engineer  for  Yankee 
Atomic  in  Framingham,  MA.  He  and  his 
wife,  Ellen,  have  two  children  and  reside  in 
Hopkinton. 

W.  Paul  Cullen  is  a  partner  in  Applied  Ro- 
botics, which  celebrated  its  first  birthday  this 
January.  The  firm  is  located  in  Troy,  NY,  and 
designs  "hands"  and  "brains"  for  robots  used 
in  manufacturing. 

John  Pappas,  superintendent  for  Perini 
Corp.  of  Framingham,  MA,  writes,  "Our  cur- 
rent project  is  Harrah's  Boardwalk  Hotel  and 
Casino  in  Atlantic  City,  NJ." 

Robert  Wyman,  a  project  manager  for  Whit- 
man &  Howard's,  Inc.,  Wellesley.  MA,  has 
been  elected  an  assistant  vice  president  of  the 
consulting-engineering  firm.  He  is  responsible 
for  water-system  studies  and  long-range  plan- 
ning, the  development  of  groundwater  supplies 
and  the  design  and  supervision  of  water-main 
improvements.  He  has  an  MSCE  from  WPI. 


1978 


MARRIED:  David  Balukonis  and  Cynthia 
Kittredge  on  June  1 1 ,  1983.  in  Clinton,  MA.  A 
financial-assistance  worker  for  the  State  De- 
partment of  Public  Welfare,  Cynthia  graduated 
from  Worcester  State  and  attended  Southeastern 
Massachusetts  University.  David,  who  attended 
UMass  as  well  as  WPI,  is  assistant  manager  for 
Strand's  Ski  Shop,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Thomas 
Edwards  and  Mary  Ann  Matt  in  Lee  Center, 
NY,  on  September  10,  1983.  Mary  Ann  is  a 
student  at  Utica  College  of  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity. Both  she  and  Tom  are  employed  by  PAR 
Technology  Corp.,  New  Hartford,  NY. 

MARRIED:  Kevin  McNamara  and  Mary 
Kruczynski  in  Worcester  on  May  21,  1983. 
Mary  graduated  from  Holy  Name  High  School 
and  is  an  administrative  secretary  at  Shawmut 
Worcester  County  Bank.  Kevin  is  employed  as 
a  mechanical  engineer  by  Boston  Edison  Co. 
.  .  .  James  ("Demetri")  Shuris  and  Kathleen 
Leone  in  Marlborough,  MA,  on  October  2, 
1983.  Kathy  graduated  from  Framingham  State 
College  and  is  employed  as  an  office  manager 
at  Medical  Resources,  Framingham,  MA.  De- 
metri is  a  construction  project  engineer  at  Riley 
Stoker  Corporation,  Worcester,  and  is  a  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts. 
.  .  .  Stephen  Superson  and  Sharon  Mulcahy  in 
Montville.  CT.  on  October  8.  1983.  Sharon 
graduated  from  Windham  Dental  Assistant 
School.  Stephen  is  a  design  engineer  at  Tele- 
dyne  Engineering  Services  Corp.,  Waltham, 
MA. 

Raymond  Beauvais,  who  has  a  BS  in  chem- 
istry from  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Techno- 
logical Institute,  is  a  teacher  in  Attleboro,  MA. 
He  and  his  wife.  Sandra,  have  two  children. 

Wayne  Beisecker,  who  is  now  with  Ciba 
Geigy.  Cranston.  RI.  is  "glad  to  be  back  on  the 
East  Coast  to  pursue  my  favorite  hobby,  fish- 
ing." He  and  his  wife,  Kim,  have  two  daugh- 
ters, whose  grandfather  is  Bernard  Beisecker, 
'46. 

Capt.  William  Diederich  serves  in  acquisi- 
tions for  the  USAF  at  the  Naval  Systems  Com- 
mand in  Arlington.  VA. 

Dr.  Raymond  Dunn  is  a  surgery  resident  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  Cen- 
ter in  Worcester.  He  has  his  MD  from  Albany 
Medical  College. 

Mark  Etre  has  been  promoted  to  engineer  at 
Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  CT.  He  joined  the 
firm  in  1981  as  an  associate  engineer.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  studying  for  his  MSME  at  Hartford 
Graduate  Center.  The  Etres  have  a  son,  Mat- 
thew, and  a  daughter.  Kathryn. 

Robert  Flynn  owns  Bob  Flynn  Associates  in 
Bloomfield,  CT.  He  received  his  MBA  from 
Babson. 

John  Holland  is  a  senior  engineer  with 
Northern  Research  &  Engineering.  Wobum, 
MA. 

Dr.  Peter  Johnson  is  a  physician  at  Newton- 
Wellesley  Hospital  in  Newton  Lower  Falls, 
MA.  He  received  his  MD  from  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  Medical  School. 

Benjamin  Khoudari  serves  as  general  man- 
ager of  the  family  business  in  Bogota,  Colom- 
bia. He  and  his  wife,  Jacqueline,  have  two 
children. 

Osamu  Kimura  is  a  scheduling  engineer  for 
Fay,  Spofford  &  Thorndike,  Inc.,  Boston. 

Gary  Krumpholz  is  a  staff  member  at  MIT's 


FEBRUARY  1984       41 


Lincoln  Laboratory  in  Lexington.  MA. 

Francis  Leah)  III  is  studying  for  his  MSEE 
at  the  University  of  California  at  Davis 

James  Monroe  serves  as  a  research  assistant 
at  the  University  o\  Massachusetts  Medical 
School  in  Worcester 

Sergej  Ochrimenko  continues  as  a  field  en- 
gineer for  Ravmond  International.  Rochelle 
Park.  NJ 

Joseph  Orlando  is  a  senior  engineer  for  Bun- 
ker Ramo  in  Trumbull.  CT. 

Bob  Raslavsky  is  current!)  a  self-employed 
photographer,  photo-finisher  and  sales  repre- 
sentative in  Worcester. 

Jeffrey  Wetmore  is  a  structural  engineer  at 
Edwards  &  Kelcey.  Inc..  Minneapolis.  MN. 

Randall  VVyatt  is  a  high  voltage  DC  project 
engineer  for  GE  in  King  of  Prussia.  PA. 


1979 


Reunion 


September  22,  1984 


MARRIED:  Martin  Paglione  and  Lynn  Sto- 
chaj  on  May  7.  1983.  in  Worcester.  Lynn  grad- 
uated from  Assumption  College  and  is  em- 
ployed by  Pronuptia  de  Pans  Bridals.  Martin, 
who  holds  degrees  from  WPI  and  UMass. 
Amherst,  is  a  computer  programmer  analyst  for 
Tile  Composition.  Inc..  Chicopee.  MA.  .  .  . 
Phillip  Roux  to  Karen  Powell  on  September 
17.  1983.  in  New  Britain.  CT.  A  graduate  of 
Southington  High  School,  Karen  is  a  secretary 
at  the  University  of  Connecticut  Health  Center 
in  Farmington.  Phillip  works  for  Data  General 
in  Westboro,  MA.  .  .  .  Joseph  Spinn  and 
Lynda  Mullen  on  September  10.  1983.  Lynda 
is  a  registered  nurse.  Spinn  has  been  working 


for  the  axrket  performance  group  at  Pratt  & 
Whitnev  Aircraft  in  Florida.  .  .  .  William  Win- 
ters and  Barbara  Price  recently  in  Quincy.  MA. 
She  graduated  from  Quincy  Junior  College,  and 
he  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey.  Palo  Alto.  CA.  He  holds  an  MSCE 
from  Cornell 

BORN:  to  Sharon  and  Michael  Gallerani 
their  first  child.  Catherine  Mary,  on  June  13. 
1983.  Mike  is  a  manufacturing  specialist  with 
the  lighting  systems  department  of  GE.  The 
Galleranis  reside  in  Hendersonville.  NC. 

Stephen  Falls  is  an  R&D  supervisor  at  the 
Spencer  Turbine  Co. .  Windsor.  CT. 

Eugenia  Fernandez  is  currently  attending 
the  School  of  Management  at  Purdue  Univer- 
sity, where  she  is  studying  for  a  PhD  in  man- 
agement information  systems.  She  has  received 
an  IBM  fellowship  for  the  first  year. 

Scott  Hansen  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  at  Monsanto  s  Technical  Center  in  De- 
catur. AL.  With  the  firm  since  1979.  he  is  cur- 
rently a  member  of  the  Acrilan  research  and 
development  department.  He  is  treasurer  of  the 
Decatur  chapter  of  the  AIChE  and  has  served  as 
an  advisor  for  Junior  Achievement. 

Ronald  Knapp  is  a  senior  design  engineer 
with  Advanced  Micro  Devices  in  Sunnyvale, 
CA. 

Danny  Lee  works  for  Eastman  Kodak  in 
Rochester.  NY. 

Steven  Mandell  is  a  scientific  programmer 
in  the  county  engineer's  office  in  West  Palm 
Beach.  FL. 

Last  May.  John  Meader  received  the 
"Young  Engineer  of  the  Year"  award  from  the 
George  Washington  chapter  of  the  Virginia  So- 
ciety of  Professional  Engineers,  an  affiliate  of 
the  National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers 
(NSPE). 


In  the  beginning,  Biophase  Genetics,  Inc.  created  us." 


Dan  Pouliot  is  manager  of  switched  services 
at  New  England  Telephone  in  Burlington.  VT. 

Sandra  Dorr  Wilson  serves  as  account  svs- 
tem  engineer  for  Information  System  Services- 
IBM  in  Waltham.  MA.  She  was  promoted  from 
programmer/analyst  to  account  system  engineer 
last  July. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Hansen  and  Maria  De 
Los  Angeles  Wagner  in  Nogales,  AZ.  on  Sep- 
tember 3.  1983.  Maria  graduated  from  Nogales 
High  School.  Stephen  is  employed  at  Chamber- 
lain Manufacturing  Corporation.  .  .  .  Richard 
Hennessy  and  Karen  Timmons  recently  in 
Melrose,  MA.  A  nurse  at  the  Children's  Hospi- 
tal Medical  Center.  Boston.  Karen  received  her 
BS  in  nursing  from  Boston  College.  Richard 
works  for  Brown  and  Sharpe  Manufacturing 
Co..  West  Kingston.  RI.  .  .  .  Steven  Kahn  to 
Mary  Donatelli  in  Pittsburgh  on  August  25, 
1983.  Mary,  a  nurse  in  the  intensive  care  unit  at 
Montefiore  Hospital,  graduated  from  Duquesne 
University  School  of  Nursing.  Steve  is  with 
Westinghouse  Bettis  Laboratories.  Pittsburgh. 
.  .  .  John  O'Horo  and  Kristine  Scherzinger 
recently  in  Clifton  Park,  NY.  Kristine  gradu- 
ated from  the  University  of  Notre  Dame  and  the 
GE  Financial  Management  program.  John  is  a 
management  engineer  at  GE  in  Wisconsin. 

MARRIED:  Mark  Riley  and  Sharon  Brierly 
in  Milford.  NH,  on  October  8.  1983.  She  grad- 
uated from  San  Jose  State  University  in  San 
Jose,  CA.  They  are  both  employed  at  Digital 
Equipment  in  Memmack.  NH.  .  .  .  Edward 
Szkutak,  Jr.,  and  Paula  Mesite  on  October  1 . 
1983.  in  Framingham.  MA.  They  are  both  can- 
didates for  master's  degrees:  she  from  MIT  and 
he  from  the  University  of  North  Carolina  at 
Chapel  Hill.  .  .  .  Scott  Yeomansand  Rosemary 
DeForge  in  Andover.  CT,  on  October  8,  1983. 
She  graduated  from  Bloomfield  High  School 
and  is  a  secretary  at  the  Travelers  Insurance 
Co..  Hartford,  where  he  is  a  research  analyst. 

Douglas  Armstrong,  a  researcher  for  John- 
son &  Johnson  Orthopaedics  in  Braintree.  MA. 
is  concerned  with  materials  and  product  re- 
search for  implantable  total-joint  replacements. 

David  Aspinwall  is  a  self-employed  general 
contractor  and  builder  in  Millbury.  MA. 

Rex  Chen  works  as  a  senior  software  engi- 
neer for  Digital  Equipment  Corporation. 

David  Clarke  is  a  part-time  student  at  Bob 
Jones  University  and  is  also  concerned  part 
time  with  contracts  for  software  development. 

Donald  Connor  is  a  graduate  student  in 
the  neurosciences  at  the  University  of  Alabama 
in  Birmingham.  In  1982  he  received  his  MS 
in  neurochemistry  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut. 

R.  Barrie  Etherington  works  as  a  process 
engineer  forGE  in  Rutland.  VT. 

John  Fazio  is  with  Du  Pont  in  Aiken.  SC. 

John  Forrester,  on  temporary  assignment  in 
West  Virginia  since  1982.  is  an  electrical  field 
engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 

Alan  Freeman  works  for  Fenwal,  Inc..  in 
Ashland.  MA.  He  and  his  wife.  Merilee,  have 
one  child. 

Jim  Getches  is  now  with  Triple-S  Plastics  in 
Kalamazoo,  MI. 

George  Gikas  is  a  project  engineer  for  Aster 
Engineering  Corp.  in  Middleton,  MA.  He  has 


42       WPI  JOURNAL 


his  MS  in  metallurgy  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut. 

Michael  Kennedy  now  serves  as  a  plant 
safety  engineer  for  Conoco  Chemicals  Co.  at 
the  Chocolate  Bayou  plant  near  AU  in.  TX. 

Serge  Molinari  continues  as  a  services  engi- 
neer at  Du  Pont  in  Beaumont.  TX. 

Michael  Ramadei  is  an  electrical  engineer 
for  Philips  Medical  Systems.  Inc..  in  Shelton. 
CT.  Last  year  he  received  his  MBA  from  Ri\  ler 
College.  Nashua.  NH 

John  Rust  serves  as  a  management  trainee  at 
Warren  Pumps  in  Warren.  MA.  He  holds  a  BA 
from  Bndgewater  State  College. 

Thomas  Ryan,  v. ho  has  a  masters  in  natural 
science  and  a  BA  in  biology  from  Salem  State 
College,  is  a  teacher  in  the  Wakefield  (MA) 
public  school  system. 

Paul  Staehly  is  an  associate  engineer  for 
Northeast  Utilities  in  Middletown.  CT. 

William  Taber  works  as  a  process  engineer 
at  Raytheon  in  Quincy.  MA.  He  and  his  wife. 
Margaret,  reside  in  Rockland. 

Daniel  Tarkiainen  is  a  math  teacher  at  Wa- 
chusett  Regional  High  School  in  Holden.  MA. 

Li  Thomas  Trepanier  serves  as  a  reactor 
training  officer  with  the  U.S.  Navy  aboard  the 
USS  Carolina. 

Scott  Wade,  who  is  currently  working  for  his 
MBA  at  Drexel  University,  is  an  engineer  with 
Philadelphia  Electric  Co. 

Francis  Walsh  serves  as  a  group  leader 
in  process  engineering  at  W.R.  Grace  &  Co.. 
Lexington.  MA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Wayne  Barry  to  Sharon  Eid  on 
September  18.  1983.  in  Worcester.  Sharon,  a 
management  trainee  at  Shawmut  Worcester 
County  Bank,  graduated  from  Skidmore  Col- 
lege. Wayne  is  employed  by  Largo  Corp.  and  is 
studying  for  his  masters  degree  at  Assumption. 
.  .  .  Daniel  D'Amore  and  Debra  Souza  in  Clin- 
ton. MA.  on  June  25.  1983  A  Horal  designer 
and  graduate  of  Ritter  School  for  Floral  Design 
in  Boston.  Debra  currently  attends  e\ening 
classes  at  Fitchburg  State  College.  D'Amore 
teaches  at  Nashoba  Regional  High  School.  .  .  . 
Thomas  Hryniewicz  to  Lori  Ann  Chiasson  in 
Worcester  on  September  10.  1983.  A  graduate 
oi  Assumption.  Lori  is  study  ing  for  her  master's 
degree  at  the  University  of  Connecticut  School 
of  Social  Work.  West  Hartford.  CT.  Tom  is  a 
demographic  analyst  and  computer  programmer 
for  Donnelly  Marketing  Information  Services. 
Stamford. 

MARRIED:  Kurt  Ross  and  Darlene  Butler 
on  October  22.  1983.  in  Sudbury.  MA.  She 
graduated  from  Dean  Junior  College  and  is  a 
senior  secretary  for  Prime  Computer. 
Framingham.  He  serves  as  an  applications  en- 
gineer with  Applicon  in  Burlington.  .  .  . 
Michael  Schmerbeck  and  Phyllis  Rogers  re- 
cently in  Newton  Centre.  MA.  Phyllis  gradu- 
ated from  Saint  Vincent  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  Worcester.  A  structural  design  engi- 
neer. Michael  works  for  U.S.  Steel  in  Pennsyl- 
vania. .  .  .  James  Thurber  and  kathy  Signo- 
rielli  in  Norton.  MA.  on  August  13.  1983. 
Kathy  is  a  graduate  of  Assumption  College. 

Arthur  Bainton  is  a  test  systems  program- 
mer at  GenRad  in  Waltham.  MA. 

Ben  Barber  works  as  a  desisn  engineer  at 


Walking  His  Way 

To  The  Olympic  Triab? 

Brian  Savilonis.  '72.  assistant  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI.  may  well 
walk  his  way  into  the  Olympic  trials  this 
year.  He's  got  a  good  start.  At  33.  he's 
already  a  national-caliber  race  walker. 

Last  fall,  he  won  his  first  ultra-distance 
race,  the  National  100  Kilometer  Race- 
walking  Championship  in  Arlington.  VA. 
He  topped  a  field  of  25  in  the  62.2-mile 
track  race  with  a  time  of  10:33:12.  Unoffi- 
cially, this  is  the  third  fastest  time  ever  by 
an  American. 

He  also  won  the  New  England  Champi- 
onships at  30KM  and  placed  second  at 
20KM  and  5KM.  He  finished  fifth  at 
50KM  in  the  National  Sports  Festival  at 
Colorado  Springs  last  summer.  In  May.  he 
placed  13th  at  the  nationals  in  Monterev. 
CA.at50KM. 

Since  taking  up  race  walking  seven 
years  ago,  Brian,  formerly  a  dedicated 
runner,  has  not  suffered  a  single  injury, 
and  rarely  an  ache  or  a  pain.  He  became 
interested  in  the  sport  when  he  was  a  re- 
search scientist  in  Virginia. 

Currently,  race  walking  is  popular 
mostly  outside  the  U.S..  with  the  stars 
coming  from  Mexico  and  Europe,  but  this 
does  not  deter  Brian.  "I  have  trouble  find- 
ing someone  to  train  with."  he  admits. 
"Sometimes  I  have  to  walk  beside  the 
slower  runners." 

He  has  made  at  least  one  dedicated  con- 
vert: his  wife.  "Jan  is  a  national  certified 
race-walking  judge."  he  reports.  "But  she 
doesn't  show  one  bit  of  favoritism.  She's 
given  me  more  cautions  than  any  other 
judge!" 

Last  year.  Brian  won  a  Teetor  Award 
from  the  Society  of  Automotive  Engineers 
for  his  technical  work  in  the  energy  field. 
Previously,  he  was  an  assistant  professor 


'•■ 


Professor  Brian  Savilonis,  '72  ME:  A 
stroll  to  the  L.A.  Coliseum? 

at  the  Center  of  Engineering.  Widener 
College.  Chester.  PA.  and  a  senior  re- 
search scientist  at  the  University  of  Vir- 
ginia. He  has  an  MSME  from  WPI  and  a 
PhD  from  SU NY-Buffalo. 

Today,  race  walking  takes  up  much  of 
his  "leisure"  time.  It's  not  an  easy  sport.  It 
requires  lots  of  upper-body  strength  and  a 
technique  that  takes  years  to  perfect. 
"People  think  it's  a  funny  waddle.  They 
don't  appreciate  the  effort  that  goes  into  it. 
They  think  anyone  can  walk."  Bnan  says. 

True.  Nearly  everyone  can  walk,  but 
few  can  walk  like  Bnan  Savilonis.  And 
even  fewer  are  saying  they  might  have  a 
shot  at  the  Olympic  trials. 


Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro.  MA 
David  Briggs  works  for  Codex  Corporation. 

Mansfield.  MA    He  resides  in  Norwood 

Tony  Cabral.  who  recently  received  his 
master's  in  metallurgy  from  Carnegie-Mellon, 
is  now  a  metallurgical  engineer  at  Pratt  &.  Whit- 
ney Aircraft  in  East  Hartford.  CT 

Edward  Crivello  serves  as  a  chemical  engi- 
neer at  the  IS  Armv  R&D  Center  in  Natick. 
MA 

Eric  Cunningham  is  currently  engaged  in 
de\  eloping  a  business  to  pro\  ide  office  space 
and  prototype  development  services  to  engi- 
neers, technical  sales  representatives,  architects 
and  ad\ertising  firms.  He  is  seeking  partners  in 
this  \enture.  which  will  be  located  in  the  Bos- 
ton area.  The  company  name  is  Shared  Re- 
sources, and  the  address  is:  PO.  Box  »1381. 
Boston.  MA  02205. 

Dr.  Stephen  Dellaporta  is  currently  working 
at  Cold  Spring  Harbor  (NYi  Laboratory  for  the 


1983  Nobel  Pnze  winner  in  physiology  and 
medicine.  Dr  Barbara  McClintock.  She  re- 
ceded the  award  for  her  work  on  transposable 
elements  (jumping  genes i  in  maize  (corn). 
Through  their  efforts,  ways  may  be  found  to 
genetically  engineer  com  to  improve  world 
food  production. 

Jeff  Dick  was  recently  named  a  senior  elec- 
tro-optic engineer  in  the  engineering  area  of  the 
Telecommunications  Products  Division  of 
Corning  Glass.  Corning.  NY 

John  Farnsworth  is  a  sanitary  engineer  with 
John  A.  Famsworth  in  Lancaster.  MA.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  a  teaching  assistant  and  full-time 
graduate  student  at  WPI. 

Thomas  Finn  is  employed  in  the  civil  and 
marine  division  ofC.E.  Maguire.  Inc..  Provi- 
dence. Rl  He  is  also  studying  for  his  MBA  at 
Bryant  College 

James  Geib  now  serves  as  a  design  engineer 
at  Aueat.  Inc..  Aulebonv  MA 


FEBRUARY  1984 


Joseph  Gionfriddo  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager at  Procter  &  Gamble's  Winton  Hill  Tech- 
nical Center  in  Cincinnati,  OH. 

Gregory  Glod  is  a  professional  development 
program  associate  with  Colt  Firearms  in  Hart- 
ford, CT. 

Paul  Goldense  holds  the  post  of  assistant  su- 
perintendent at  Perini  Corp.,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Richard  Halleck  was  recently  promoted  to 
associate  engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1981  as  an  assistant  engi- 
neer in  the  generation  electrical  engineering 
department 

Lee  Hevey  is  now  an  applications  engineer 
for  Corning  Glass  Works  Telecommunications 
Products  Division,  Corning,  NY. 

David  Jensen  serves  as  a  B-52  pilot  for  the 
USAF  at  Andersen  AFB,  Guam. 

Jeffrey  Labuz,  a  graduate  student  in  the  EE 
department  at  the  University  of  Virginia  in 
Charlottesville,  is  working  for  his  PhD  and  spe- 
cializing in  image  processing. 

Thomas  Lepore  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
vice  president  of  Delia  Construction  Co.,  Inc., 
Enfield.  CT.  Formerly  a  professor  of  civil  engi- 
neering at  the  University  of  Hartford,  he  holds 
degrees  from  the  University  of  Hartford  Col- 
lege of  Engineering  and  WPI.  He  joined  Delia 
in  1981  as  vice  president  of  engineering. 

James  Morgan  is  a  computer  scientist  for 


D&D  Computer  Security  Center  at  Ft.  Meade, 
MD. 

Dennis  Moulton  works  for  Stone  &  Webster. 
He  resides  in  New  London,  CT. 

Dung  Nguyen  is  manager  of  the  plating  de- 
partment at  Diamond  Machining  in  Marlboro, 
MA.  He  has  his  MS  from  WPI. 

Augustus  Nunes,  Jr.,  is  a  design  engineer 
for  Analog  Devices,  Inc.,  Norwood.  MA. 

Rick  Rykosky  currently  works  in  design, 
project  management  and  field  supervising  for 
the  Gatx  Terminals  Corp.  bulk  liquid  storage 
terminal  in  Good  Hope,  LA. 

Chandran  Santanam  serves  as  a  senior  en- 
gineer at  Riley  Stoker  Corp. ,  Worcester. 

Gilbert  Stiles,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of  presi- 
dent at  New  England  Test  Systems,  Westboro, 
MA. 

Kristi  Thompson,  a  chemistry  teacher  at 
Shepherd  Regional  High  School,  Dudley,  MA, 
is  working  for  her  master's  of  education  through 
UMass,  Amherst. 

Marc  Trudeau  is  an  acoustical  engineer  at 
Epicure  Products,  Inc..  Newburyport,  MA.  He 
is  studying  for  his  MSEE  at  the  University 
of  Lowell. 

David  White  is  an  electrical  engineer  at 
Combustion  Engineering.  Windsor,  CT.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  studying  for  his  MSEM  at  Western 
New  England  College. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Robert  Bean  to  Karen  Rom- 
bousek  on  July  16,  1983,  in  Worcester.  Karen  is 
a  senior  at  Worcester  State  College.  Robert  is  a 
graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Jane  Bulejcik 
and  Ralph  Becker  in  Webster,  MA,  on  August 
6,  1983.  Jane  is  an  electrical  engineer  with 
EVA  Service  Corp..  Lincoln,  RI.  Ralph  is  a 
software  engineer  with  Prime  Computer, 
Framingham,  MA.  .  .  .  Brian  Dunne  and 
Mary-Ellen  McLaughlin  in  Worcester  on  June 
26,  1983.  Mary-Ellen  graduated  from  Becker 
Junior  College  and  Fitchburg  State  College. 
Brian  works  for  Westinghouse  Corp..  Balti- 
more, MD.  .  .  .  Robert  Finnance  and  Beth 
Monde  on  September  16,  1983,  in  Middletown. 
CT.  Beth  graduated  from  Endicott  College. 
Robert,  an  engineer  with  GTE  Corporation, 
Needham,  MA,  is  also  doing  graduate  work  at 
Babson  College.  .  .  .  Gary  Johnson  to  Jo-Ann 
Lane  in  Reading,  MA,  on  August  27,  1983.  A 
registered  nurse,  she  graduated  from  Peter  Bent 
Brigham  School  of  Nursing.  He  is  a  naval  flight 
officer  stationed  in  San  Diego,  CA. 

MARRIED:  David  Leeman  and  Carolyn 
Humfryes  in  Worcester  on  May  21,  1983.  A 
medical  secretary,  she  attended  Quinsigamond 
Community  College  and  Worcester  State  Col- 


Living  in  Class! 


Anyone  who  questions  the  value  of  the 
WPI  Plan  should  talk  with  Paul  Varadian, 
'75.  Varadian,  an  honors  graduate  and 
recipient  of  the  Carl  F.  Meyer  Civil  Engi- 
neering Award,  is  president  of  Trans-Con- 
tinental Development  Corp.,  a  multimil- 
lion-dollar real-estate  conglomerate  based 
in  Boston.  One  of  Varadian 's  development 
projects  has  brought  him  back  closer  to 
WPI  than  he  ever  thought  possible.  Within 
100  yards  of  Kaven  Hall  and  across  the 
street  from  the  Worcester  Art  Museum, 
Transcontinental  has  just  finished  con- 
verting Worcester's  former  North  High 
School  complex  into  a  $7-million  luxury 
condominium  development. 

Varadian  sees  a  direct  link  between  his 
current  ventures  and  the  WPI  Plan.  "I  was 
fortunate  to  have  the  opportunity  to  do  one 
of  the  first  large-scale  MQPs  on  the  con- 
struction of  a  major  addition  to  the  Bur- 
bank  Hospital  in  Fitchburg,  under  the  di- 
rection of  Professor  A.  Fattah  Chalabi. 
Now  we've  just  finished  developing  one 
of  the  largest,  private  real  estate  projects 
undertaken  in  Worcester  at  the  very  door- 
step of  the  WPI  campus." 

North  High  Gardens  has  been  a  national 
success  story.  Varadian  structured  an  in- 
vestment plan,  now  widely  copied,  by 
which  an  investment  condo  buyer  could 
take  advantage  of  a  25  percent  investment 
tax  credit,  offered  on  certified  historic  re- 
habilitation projects,  like  North  High  Gar- 
dens. On  a  $100,000  unit,  a  $10,000  down 
payment,  with  a  resulting  $25,000  tax 


Paul  Varadian  in  (he  atrium 

credit,  shows  obvious  appeal.  A  buyer 
then  rents  out  the  unit  to  meet  the  mort- 
gage payments,  with  substantial  profit 
coming  upon  sale  five  years  later.  And 
with  a  large  four-story  garden  atrium, 
glass  elevators,  large  units  and  ornate  de- 
tails, tenants  truly  "live  in  class." 
Varadian  is  an  active  director  of  the  WPI 


Boston  Alumni  Association.  He  is  also  a 
founding  director  of  the  Summit  Group,  a 
well-known  Boston  financial  and  tax-plan- 
ning firm,  as  well  as  a  founding  director  of 
RETEC  Associates,  a  real-estate  consult- 
ing firm  which  serves  Fortune  500  compa- 
nies under  the  direction  of  another  WPI 
alumnus,  Peter  Walworth,  '74. 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


lege.  He  is  with  Hydronic  Technology,  Inc., 
Shrewsbury.  .  .  .  Thomas  Marnik  to  Kathleen 
Correia  in  Fairhaven,  MA,  on  September  17, 
1983.  A  registered  nurse,  Kathleen  graduated 
from  Rhode  Island  College.  Tom  is  a  general 
contractor  for  Marnik's  Construction.  .  .  .  Cyril 
Marrion,  Jr.,  and  Kathleen  Pereira  were 
married  on  August  27,  1983,  in  Cumberland, 
RI.  Kathleen  is  a  mechanical  engineer  at  Ray- 
theon in  Wayland,  MA,  and  Marrion  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  at  Digital  in  Maynard.  .  .  .  John 
Scoville  and  Christine  Bruciati  in  Middletown, 
CT,  on  September  10,  1983.  Christine  gradu- 
ated from  Becker.  John  is  with  GE  in  Cincin- 
nati, OH.  .  .  .  Scott  Traynor  and  Leslie 
Cornwall  in  Wethersfield,  CT,  on  August  20, 
1983.  Leslie  is  a  draftsman  at  Consultants  and 
Designers,  East  Hartford.  Scott  is  a  mechanical 
engineer  with  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Cen- 
ter, New  London. 

Gary  Adams  serves  as  a  research  assistant  in 
the  department  of  polymer  science  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  in  Amherst. 

Robert  Addiss  works  for  Transkinetics  in 
Canton,  MA. 

Joyce  Trela  Auman  was  recently  promoted 
to  experimental  engineer  in  the  Hamilton 
Standard  Division  of  United  Technologies  in 
Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Michael  Bagley  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Intelligent  Business  Systems  in  Saco,  ME. 

Alan  Bardsley  teaches  physics  in  Seekonk, 
MA.  He  has  a  BS  from  Rhode  Island  College. 

George  Beauchesne  is  employed  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Eaton  Corp.,  AIL  Division, 
Edwards,  CA. 

Dale  Beaver  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Innovative  Products  &  Equipment  in  Lowell, 
MA. 

John  Bellantoni  is  a  microwave  compo- 
nent design  engineer  at  Alpha  Industries  in 
Lawrence,  MA. 

Richard  Bolstridge  works  as  a  software 
product  specialist  at  Applicon,  Inc.,  Burling- 
ton, MA. 

David  Carlson  is  a  diagnostic  programmer  at 
Computervision  Corp.,  Bedford,  MA. 

Paul  Cottle  is  in  the  physics  PhD  program  at 
Yale. 

Donald  Cowles,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  process  en- 
gineer at  GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham,  MA. 

Brian  Dalton  works  as  a  field  engineer  and 
assistant  superintendent  for  Turner  Construc- 
tion Co.  He  is  now  located  at  Virginia  Beach, 
VA. 

Martin  DeLuca  is  employed  as  a  checker 
and  supervisor  at  Pepsi-Cola  New  York  Bot- 
tling, Long  Island  City,  NY. 

Harold  Dickerman  holds  the  post  of  product 
manager  at  Professional  Software,  Needham, 
MA. 

Michael  Donati  is  an  applications  engineer 
at  Beswick  Engineering  Co.,  Inc.,  Ipswich, 
MA. 

Toma  Duhani  works  as  a  project  engineer 
for  the  Department  of  Transportation  in  Provi- 
dence, RI. 

Matthew  Flynn  is  a  medicinal  chemist  at 
American  Hoechst. 

Ralph  Gifford  III  is  now  a  sales  engineer  for 
Dana  Corp.,  Auburn,  MA. 

Jeff  Gross  has  been  promoted  to  products 
line  engineer  at  the  Hawthorne  Farms  facility  of 
Intel  Corp.  in  Hillsboro,  OR.  Previously  he 
was  with  Intel  in  Chandler,  AZ. 

Stefan  Hagopian  is  a  full-time  student  at  the 


University  of  New  England  College  of  Osteo- 
pathic Medicine  in  Biddeford,  ME. 

Cheryl  Hamer  does  research  at  Dana  Farber 
Cancer  Institute,  Boston. 

Daniel  Head  is  a  start-up  nuclear  engineer 
for  Westinghouse  in  Fulton,  MO.  He  and  his 
wife,  Xavier,  have  one  child  and  live  in  Jeffer- 
son City. 

Constance  Heath  is  studying  for  her  MBA  at 
Clark  University,  Worcester. 

Frederick  Klich  is  employed  as  a  design  en- 
gineer at  GE  in  Pittsfield,  MA.  Currently,  he  is 
studying  for  his  master's  in  engineering  at  RPI. 

Kevin  Ladd  works  for  Digital  in  Littleton, 
MA. 

Ruth  Lapan  teaches  chemistry  at  Rivier  Col- 
lege, Nashua,  NH.  She  has  a  BS  from  Trinity 
College,  Burlington,  VT,  and  an  MEd  from 
Keene  State,  Keene,  NH. 

Christopher  Lord  serves  as  an  electrical  de- 
sign engineer  at  H.F  Henderson  Industries, 
West  Caldwell.  NJ. 

Richard  Mallia  is  a  programmer  and  instruc- 
tor at  Business  Computer  Systems,  Newington, 
CT.  He  resides  in  Plainville. 

Richard  Masse  is  studying  for  his  MSCE  at 
UMass,  Amherst. 

John  Mastroianni,  who  holds  a  BSEE  from 
the  University  of  New  Haven  and  an  associate's 
degree  from  Waterbury  State  Technical  Col- 
lege, serves  as  a  senior  design  engineer  at 
Prime  Computer,  Inc.,  Framingham,  MA. 

Currently,  John  McManus  is  a  process 
analyst  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  CT. 

Caryn  Mee  holds  the  post  of  research  chemi- 
cal engineer  at  the  Army  Materials  and  Me- 
chanics Research  Center  in  Watertown,  MA. 

Gary  Oja  is  a  systems  programmer  for  AFI- 
Datatrol,  Hudson,  MA. 

Joel  Patenaude  is  serving  with  the  Peace 
Corps  in  Kenya. 

Wilson  Powell  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
computer-aided  design  at  Sunsearch,  Inc., 
Guilford,  CT. 

Robert  Raymond  is  plant  manager  at  J.F 
Donovan,  Inc.,  Providence,  RI.  He  and  his 
wife,  Ann,  have  two  children. 

Carl  Rice  works  as  a  senior  mechanical  engi- 
neer for  Gould's  Modicon  Division  in  Andover, 
MA. 

David  Rubinstein  is  a  consultant  at  Arthur 
Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston. 

Wayne  Saari  currently  works  as  a  soft- 
ware engineer  at  Bendix  Grinding  Machine  in 
Worcester. 

Peter  Saloman  is  a  software  engineer  at 
Wang  Laboratories,  Lowell,  MA. 

Kenneth  Scott  is  chairman  of  the  computer 
and  business  department  at  St.  Peter-Marian 
High  School  in  Worcester. 

Douglas  Sieber  holds  the  post  of  plant  engi- 
neer at  Haartz  Auto  Fabric  Company,  Acton, 
MA. 

Glen  Stimson  is  an  electrical  engineer  for 
Raytheon,  Wayland.  MA.  He  and  his  wife, 
Deborah,  reside  in  Marlboro. 

Christopher  Trolle  is  a  mechanical  engineer 
intern  at  Omega  Engineering,  Stamford,  CT. 


1983 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Beaudoin  to  Marsha 
Gallup  in  West  Brewster,  MA,  on  September 


17,  1983.  Marsha  graduated  from  UConn  and 
is  a  clinical  dietitian  at  Morton  Hospital  in 
Taunton.  Stephen  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  Re- 
search and  Development  Laboratory  in  Natick. 
.  .  .  Mark  Boivin  and  Fern  Amuan  on  Sep- 
tember 24,  1983.  in  Groton,  CT.  She  is  with  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New  Lon- 
don and  he  serves  as  supervisor  of  chemical 
processes  at  Yardney's  Battery  Division  in  Paw- 
catuck.  .  .  .  Sean  Cafferty  and  Sharon  Casson 
on  September  24,  1983,  in  Clinton,  MA. 
.  .  .  Donna  Fitzback  and  Randy  Becker  in 
Webster,  MA,  on  June  25,  1983.  Donna  is  a 
programmer  at  the  Commerce  Insurance  Com- 
pany in  Webster.  Randy  is  an  accountant  at  Ar- 
thur Young  and  Company.  Both  graduated  from 
Nichols  College. 

MARRIED:  James  Houskeeper  to  Lynn 
Blevins  in  Enfield,  CT,  on  June  25,  1983.  He  is 
a  mechanical  engineer  for  United  Oil  Products 
in  Bantam.  .  .  .  Steven  Kelley  and  Susan  Knipe 
in  Shrewsbury,  MA,  on  June  19,  1983.  Susan, 
a  calculation  specialist  for  State  Mutual  in  Dal- 
las, TX,  graduated  from  Quinsigamond  Com- 
munity College,  Worcester.  Steven  is  an  electri- 
cal engineer  with  Texas  Instruments,  Dallas. 
.  .  .  Nelson  Martel,  Jr.,  and  Elaine  Racicot  on 
August  13,  1983,  in  Agawam,  MA.  She  at- 
tended UMass,  Amherst.  He  works  at  IBM  in 
Rochester,  MN.  .  .  .  William  McMullan,  Jr., 
to  Nancy  Gallant  in  Manchester.  CT,  on  August 
20,  1983.  Nancy,  who  attended  Our  Lady  of 
the  Elms  College,  graduated  from  Worcester 
State  College.  McMullan  is  attending  RPI's 
Center  for  Electric  Power  Engineering  in  Troy, 
NY.  He  has  been  employed  as  a  transmission 
and  distribution  planning  engineer  at  Common- 
wealth Electric  Co.  in  Wareham. 

MARRIED:  Peter  Mott,  Jr.,  and  Stacey 
Bullock,  '82,  on  September  10,  1983,  in  Can- 
ton Center,  CT.  Peter  is  a  software  support  spe- 
cialist at  Digital  in  Marlboro,  MA.  .  .  . 
Richard  Tolles  and  Nancy  Ortman  in  Middle- 
bury,  CT,  on  September  24,  1983.  Nancy  at- 
tended Worcester  State  College  and  was  for- 
merly with  Shawmut  Worcester  County  Bank. 
Richard  is  a  computer  engineer  for  MicroWare, 
Inc.,  of  Kingston,  MA.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Webber 
and  Dale  DeLibero  on  August  13,  1983,  in 
Trumbull,  CT.  Dale  is  a  programmer/analyst 
for  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro,  MA,  and 
Kenneth  serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Tewksbury.  .  .  . 
Nancy  Wilkinson  and  Michael  Lincoln  in 
Plainville,  MA,  on  September  3,  1983.  Nancy, 
a  software  engineer,  is  with  Sanders  Associates 
in  Merrimack,  NH.  Michael  graduated  from 
King  Philip  Regional  High  School  and  is  em- 
ployed in  the  quality  assurance  department  at 
Metaloy,  Inc.,  Wrentham. 

Sonia  Adrianowycz  has  been  employed  by 
the  Naval  Electronic  Systems  Command  in 
Washington,  DC. 

Patricia  Allard  is  with  GE-Medical  in  Mil- 
waukee, WI. 

Yuly  Aronson  is  a  junior  engineer  for  the 
New  York  State  Department  of  Transportation. 

Donna  Bagdonovich  has  joined  Amicon 
Corporation  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Mark  Besse  works  as  a  programmer  at 
Harris  Corp.,  Rochester,  NY. 

Ruth  Bibbo  has  joined  GE  in  Evendale,  OH. 

Joseph  Boggio  is  now  a  field  engineering 
representative  with  GE  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Robert  Bors  is  with  the  Peace  Corps  in  the 
Philippines. 


FEBRUARY  1984       45 


Steven  Burns  works  for  Raytheon  in  Way- 
land,  MA.  He,  his  wife.  Donna,  and  their  child 
reside  in  Ashland. 

Robert  Bursiewicz  is  with  Condiesel  Mobile 
Equipment  Corp.,  Schenectady.  NY. 

Renee  Cardinal  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.  in  Fullerton,  CA. 

Alan  Carpenter  serves  as  a  civil  engineering 
assistant  for  the  County  of  Los  Angeles  in 
California. 

Kevin  Cavanaugh  has  joined  the  USN  Un- 
derwater Systems  Center.  New  London,  CT, 
where  he  is  an  electronics  engineer. 

Edward  Clancy  works  as  a  design  engineer 
forGE  in  Wilmington,  MA. 

Dave  Coleman  is  an  associate  software  spe- 
cialist at  Digital  Equipment  Corp..  Marlboro, 
MA. 

Francis  Connolly  works  for  GTE  in  West- 
boro,  MA. 

Michael  Connors  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer at  Torrington  (CT)  Co. 

James  Coyne  is  now  an  associate  engineer  at 
AVCO  Systems  Division  in  Wilmington,  MA. 

Gary  Cromack  of  Greenfield,  MA,  is  a  self- 
employed  consulting  engineer. 

Sujal  Dave  works  as  a  software  engineer  for 
DEC  in  Andover,  MA. 

Richard  Dietz  works  for  Digital  Equipment 
Co.,  Maynard,  MA. 

Peter  DiMarco  continues  as  a  science 
teacher  at  Franklin  (MA)  High  School. 

Christopher  Duggan  is  employed  at  GTE 
Products  Corporation,  Westboro,  MA. 

Jon  Ericson  holds  the  post  of  commander 
and  team  chief  in  the  U.S.  Army  Signal  Corps, 
Dugway,  UT. 

Currently,  Chris  Erikson  attends  graduate 
school  at  MIT. 

James  Flanders  holds  the  post  of  production 
engineer  at  Photofabrication  Engineering,  Inc., 
Holliston,  MA. 

Dennis  Foley  is  a  manufacturing  engineer  at 
Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro,  MA. 

Peter  Fontana  has  been  named  a  member 
of  the  technical  staff  at  Computervision  in 
Bedford,  MA. 

Staff  Sergeant  Brian  Fuller  was  recently  se- 
lected to  attend  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Officer 
Training  School  near  Lackland  AFB,  San  Anto- 
nio, TX.  After  graduating  as  a  second  lieuten- 
ant, he  will  be  assigned  as  a  developmental  en- 
gineer to  Hanscom  AFB,  Bedford,  MA. 

Michael  Gagnon  serves  as  assistant  sales  en- 
gineer at  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Jericho,  NY. 

Jeffrey  Giordano  is  now  a  career  develop- 
ment engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 

John  Griffin  has  been  named  project  engi- 
neer at  Gillette  in  Boston,  MA. 

Janet  Guerrin  is  currently  working  for  her 
master's  in  biomedical  engineering  at  Clemson 
University,  where  she  is  a  graduate  assistant. 
She  lives  in  Central,  SC. 

Patrick  Guida  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Condiesel  Mobile  Equipment  in  Waterbury, 
CT. 

Dr.  Robert  Gundel,  who  received  his  MBA 
from  WPI  last  year,  is  manager  of  course-ware 
and  media  products  at  Data  General  Corp., 
Westboro,  MA.  He  has  a  PhD,  an  MS  and  a  BA 
from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

Stan  Hargus  is  a  senior  engineer  with  DEC 
in  Tewksbury,  MA.  He  received  his  MS  from 
WPI  last  year. 

Steve  Hight  serves  as  a  production  supervi- 
sor at  Procter  &  Gamble  Manufacturing  Co., 


Quincy,  MA.  Steve  received  the  1983  Charles 
T.  Main  Student  Section  Award  for  his  leader- 
ship as  chairman  of  the  WPI  student  section  of 
the  ASME. 

Yaron  Hochman  is  a  product  test  engineer  at 
Analog  Devices,  Wilmington,  MA. 

John  Howland  holds  the  post  of  principal 
engineer  at  GenRad  in  Concord,  MA.  He  also 
has  degrees  from  Tulane  and  UConn. 

Ronald  Joy  has  been  employed  as  a  struc- 
tural engineer  at  Andrews  &  Clark  in  Amherst, 
NH. 

Mitchell  Kearny,  Jr.,  is  now  a  junior  civil 
engineer  at  General  Services  Administration  in 
Boston. 

John  Kociecki  serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at 
Data  General.  Westboro,  MA.  He  holds  a 
BSEE  from  SUNY  at  Buffalo. 

Robert  Kodrzycki  is  doing  graduate  work  in 
the  department  of  botany  at  North  Carolina 
State  University.  He  is  located  in  Raleigh. 

Victor  Kourey  teaches  in  Leicester,  MA. 

Terese  Kwiatkowski  continues  as  a  graduate 
student  at  Virginia  Polytechnic  &  State  Univer- 
sity in  Blacksburg. 

Louis  LaForce,  who  has  degrees  from  St. 
Anselm  College  and  Rivier  College  in  New 
Hampshire,  teaches  at  Triton  Regional  School 
in  Byfield,  MA. 

William  Lamberti  has  joined  Hamilton 
Standard  in  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Nora  Lane  works  for  GE  in  Evendale,  OH. 

Allen  LcBlanc  has  been  named  land  sur- 
veyor and  crew  chief  for  Ewald  Engineering 
Co.  in  Framingham,  MA.  He  lives  in  Waltham. 

John  Letendre  has  been  named  an  electronic 
engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Bedford,  MA. 

Karen  Lombardo  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the 
New  Jersey  Department  of  Transportation  in 
Newark. 

William  Lopes  serves  as  a  manager  of  utility 
and  product  design  for  GE  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 

John  Mansour  is  with  the  department 
of  physics  at  the  University  of  Rochester  in 
New  York. 

Robert  Massaroni  is  a  student  at  RPI, 
Troy,  NY. 

Nancy  McLane  has  been  employed  as  an  en- 
vironmental engineer  at  GTE  Products  Corp.  in 
Needham,  MA. 

Brian  McLaughlin  is  with  Sage  Laborato- 
ries, Inc.,  Natick,  MA. 

Scott  Menard  is  an  estimator  for  Robert  E. 
McK.ee,  Inc.,  Los  Angeles,  CA. 

Ronald  Merkel  serves  as  manager  of  CAM 
systems  at  GE  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 

Keith  Michaud  is  working  for  his  MBA  at 
Babson  College,  Babson  Park,  MA. 

Mark  Millay  works  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer for  GTE  in  Westboro,  MA. 

Mark  Mungeam  has  been  working  as  an  es- 
timator and  field  assistant  for  Moore  Golf,  Inc. , 
of  Culpeper,  VA,  a  construction  firm  that  builds 
golf  courses  and  parks. 

Digital  has  named  Stephen  Munyan  a  sys- 
tem programmer.  He  is  located  in  Nashua,  NH. 

Dean  Nahatis  works  for  Andrews  and 
Clarke,  Inc.,  Engineering  Consultants. 

Jim  Nesteruk  is  a  manufacturing  trainee  for 
Harris  Graphics  in  Dover,  NH. 

John  Nicholson,  Jr.,  works  for  Naval  Elec- 
tronic Systems  in  Arlington,  VA,  and  resides  in 
Falls  Church. 

Terence  O'Coin  serves  as  scientific  pro- 
grammer/analyst at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in 
East  Hartford,  CT. 


Lisa  Orfan  is  a  programmer/analyst  with 
PR.  Donnelley  &  Sons  in  Old  Say  brook,  CT. 

GTE  has  employed  Mark  Padula  as 
a  mechanical  engineer  at  their  facility  in 
Westboro,  MA. 

David  Palus  works  for  Raytheon  in  Sudbury. 
MA. 

Beth  Papianou  works  for  the  video  products 
division  of  GE  in  Portsmouth,  VA. 

Christopher  Pappas  is  an  applications 
engineer  at  Data  Comm  Systems,  Inc., 
Framingham,  MA. 

Liza  Paul,  a  teaching  assistant  at  MIT,  is  in 
the  PhD  program  in  physical  chemistry. 

Aires  Pavao  works  as  a  senior  proposal  engi- 
neer at  Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester.  He  has  an 
associate  engineering  degree  from  Wentworth 
Institute  and  a  BSME  from  SMU. 

Philip  Pearson  is  an  associate  programmer/ 
analyst  for  Data  General  Corp.  in  Westboro, 
MA. 

Michael  Peszynski  has  joined  Hamilton 
Standard  in  Windsor  Locks,  CT.  He  has  an  AS 
degree  from  Hartford  State  Technical  College. 

Nicholas  Pirog  serves  as  promotion  and  sales 
coordinator  for  Analogic  in  Danvers,  MA. 

Robert  Plante  serves  as  a  senior  analyst  at 
New  England  Electric  Systems  in  Westboro, 
MA. 

Michael  Quarrey  is  with  the  Resource  Pol- 
icy Center  at  Thayer  School  of  Engineering, 
Dartmouth  College,  Hanover,  NH. 

International  Medical  Industries  of  Water- 
town,  MA,  has  employed  Mark  Robichaud  as 
an  industrial  engineer. 

Ralph  Rondinone,  Jr.,  is  now  a  metallurgi- 
cal engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Northboro,  MA. 

Anne  Saunders  has  been  named  an  electrical 
design  engineer  by  Hamilton  Standard  in  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT. 

Thomas  Shores  has  been  named  a  mechani- 
cal design  engineer  by  Raytheon  of  Bedford, 
MA. 

Paul  Skerker,  a  fellowship  student,  is  study- 
ing for  his  master's  degree  at  Cornell. 

Steven  Snyder  is  a  junior  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  ITT  Avionics  Division, 
Nutley,  NJ. 

Derek  Speed  works  as  a  technical  support 
specialist  for  Digital  Equipment  Corporation  in 
Marlboro,  MA. 

Andy  Steere  is  an  associate  engineer  for  NBI 
in  Boulder,  CO. 

Lynn  St.  Germain  and  Maureen  Sexton 
spent  the  summer  in  Europe.  Maureen  is  an 
MIS  consultant  for  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co., 
Boston.  Currently,  Lynn  is  working  for  ITT  in 
Shelton,  CT.  As  the  secretary  of  the  Class  of 
'83,  Lynn  requests  that  her  classmates  forward 
their  current  addresses  to  the  Alumni  Office  so 
they  won't  miss  the  class  mailings. 

Neil  Sullivan  is  a  master's  candidate  in  com- 
puter science  at  Duke  University,  Durham, 
NC. 

Ronald  Thompson,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  com- 
mercial credit  analyst  at  United  Bank  of  Denver 
in  Colorado. 

Michael  Thorn  has  been  named  assistant  sci- 
entist of  quality  assurance  at  Northeast  Utilities 
in  Berlin,  CT. 

Jennifer  Toomey  is  with  GE  in  Cincinnati. 

John  Vangos  works  as  a  quality  engineer  at 
Computervision  in  Bedford,  MA. 

Vinnie  Vignaly  is  a  civil  engineer  at  Guer- 
riere  &  Halnon,  Milford,  MA. 


46       WPI  JOURNAL 


Robert  Wadja  is  a  manufacturing  process 
engineer  for  Sprague  Electric  in  Worcester. 

David  Ward  is  a  senior  principal  software 
engineer  at  Honeywell  in  Phoenix,  AZ. 

Mary  White  works  as  a  planning  aide  for  the 
Town  of  Oxford,  MA. 

Stephen  Wright  has  been  employed  as  a  me- 
chanical design  engineer  at  Kollmorgen  Corp. 
in  Northampton,  MA. 

School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Bernie  Olmsted,  '58,  recently  retired  as  man- 
ager of  plastics  machinery  engineering  for 
Reed-Prentice  Division  of  Package  Machinery 
Company  following  44  years  of  service.  He 
now  heads  B.A.  Olmsted  &  Associates,  Inc., 
East  Longmeadow,  MA  (plastic  injection 
molding  consultants).  A  registered  professional 
engineer,  Olmsted  has  been  active  with  the  So- 
ciety of  Plastics  Engineers  and  is  a  past  chair- 
man of  the  Standards  and  Safety  committees  of 
the  Society  of  the  Plastics  Industry's  Injection 
Molding  Machinery  Section.  .  .  .  Theresa 
Buckley,  '77,  has  been  appointed  personnel 
functional  manager  for  the  Maynard  (MA)  mill 


complex  of  Digital  Equipment  Corporation. 
The  position  involves  personnel  administration 
responsibility  for  4,000  employees  in  a  12- 
building  complex  through  a  staff  of  35  person- 
nel service  administrators. 

William  Poist,  '77,  executive  vice  president 
of  Commonwealth  Gas  Company,  recently  re- 
ceived the  Albert  J.  Schwieger  Award  from 
WPI's  School  of  Industrial  Management.  He 
joined  the  company  in  1971  as  a  division  man- 
ager in  Cambridge.  In  1978,  he  was  named  ex- 
ecutive vice  president.  .  .  .  Irving  Paton,  '78, 
works  as  a  principal  marketing  specialist  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Merrimack,  NH.  He 
has  a  BS  in  computer  systems  from  Daniel 
Webster  College,  Nashua.  .  .  .  Remi  Brancon- 
nier,  '82,  is  currently  the  chief  accountant  for 
Worcester  Controls  Corp.,  West  Boylston, 
MA. 


Natural  Science  Program 

Larry  George,  '78,  has  been  named  principal 
of  the  Guilford  Central  School  in  Vermont.  Pre- 
viously he  was  principal  in  Henniker,  NH,  and 
Amesbury,  MA.  He  received  a  degree  in  his- 
tory from  Gordon  College  in  1967. 


COMPLETED  Q^REERS 


Joseph  K.  Schofield,  '09,  one  of  WPI's  oldest 
living  alumni,  died  in  Hartford,  CT,  on  Sep- 
tember 27,  1983,  at  the  age  of  98.  He  was  a 
native  of  Rockville,  CT. 

After  graduating  with  his  BSME,  he  attended 
National  University  (now  Georgetown)  and  re- 
ceived his  LLB  in  1914.  During  his  career,  he 
was  an  assistant  examiner  in  the  U.S.  Patent 
Office,  Washington,  DC,  and  assistant  patent 
counsel  for  Ingersoll  Rand,  New  York  City.  For 
more  than  40  years  he  was  a  patent  counsel  for 
Pratt  &  Whitney  in  Hartford. 

Mr.  Schofield,  who  belonged  to  ATO,  also 
was  a  member  of  the  ABA,  the  Connecticut  Bar 
Association  and  the  American  Patent  Law  As- 
sociation. A  former  longtime  consultant  for  the 
Smithsonian  Institution,  he  was  a  member  of 
the  University  Club,  the  Chemist  Club  (New 
York)  and  the  Masons  (32nd  degree).  For  more 
than  50  years  he  belonged  to  the  Hartford  Cho- 
ral Club  and  the  Unitarian  Church,  both  in 
Hartford.  He  was  a  former  president  of  the 
Hartford  and  Washington  (DC)  chapters  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Howard  P.  King,  '12,  of  Bloomfield,  NJ,  a 
retired  patent  lawyer,  passed  away  recently.  He 
was  born  in  Washington,  DC,  on  February  17, 
1890. 

After  studying  civil  engineering  at  WPI,  he 
entered  New  Jersey  Law  School,  now  Rutgers. 
He  had  been  employed  as  a  patent  attorney  by 
the  U.S.  Patent  Office,  Mason,  Fen  wick  & 
Lawrence,  DeForest  Radio  and  Arcturus  Radio 
Tube  Co.  In  1955  he  retired  from  the  patent 
department  of  Westinghouse  in  Bloomfield, 
NJ.  For  a  tinie  he  was  a  self-employed  patent 
lawyer  and  belonged  to  several  patent  law 
societies. 


Helmer  P.  Johnson,  '20,  a  former  executive 
with  Viko  Shoe  Co.  of  Worcester,  died  at  his 
home  in  West  Boylston,  MA,  on  August  11, 
1983.  He  was  86. 

Born  in  Worcester,  he  graduated  as  a  civil 
engineer  from  WPI.  He  was  president  and 
treasurer  of  Viko  Shoe  Co.  for  44  years,  prior 
to  retiring  in  1965.  He  had  been  a  director  of 
the  Guaranty  Bank  and  Trust  Co. ,  trustee  of  the 
Swedish  Cemetery  Corp.  and  superintendent  of 
the  Sunday  School  of  Salem  Covenant  Church. 
He  belonged  to  ATO  and  Sigma  Xi.  In  World 
War  I  he  served  with  the  U.S.  Army. 

Aldo  P.  Greco,  '23,  of  Lewisburg,  PA,  retired 
vice  president  of  Champ  Hats,  Inc.,  died  in 
July.  He  was  born  in  Lavina,  Italy,  on  July  29, 
1900. 

A  graduate  mechanical  engineer,  Mr.  Greco 
had  been  employed  by  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel 
Co.,  Woodward  Wanger  Co.,  Publicker  Indus- 
tries and  Ace  Mfg.  Co.,  all  in  Philadelphia. 
The  retired  vice  president  in  charge  of  pro- 
duction of  Champ  Hats,  Sunbury,  PA,  he 
held  a  professional  ME  degree  from  WPI  and 
an  MBA  from  Harvard.  He  was  a  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Philadelphia  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  as  well  as  an  Alumni  Council 
representative. 

William  B.  Gould  III,  '25,  a  pioneer  in 
electronics,  died  at  Monmouth  Medical  Center 
in  Long  Branch,  NJ,  on  August  15,  1983.  He 
was  8 1 . 

After  studying  electrical  engineering  at  WPI, 
he  was  later  employed  by  WTAG  in  Worcester, 
Western  Electric  Co.,  RCA,  the  City  of  Boston 
and  the  (MA)  Metropolitan  District  Commis- 
sion. From  1940  to  1947  he  was  a  senior  radio 


engineer  at  the  Signal  Corps  Engineering  Labs 
in  Belmar,  NJ.  Before  retiring  in  1969,  he  was  a 
civilian  electronic  engineer  at  Fort  Monmouth 
for  29  years. 

While  at  Fort  Monmouth,  he  directed  re- 
search relating  to  the  application  of  radio  and 
radar  equipment  for  meteorological  problems, 
as  well  as  the  instrumentation  of  the  long-dis- 
tance guided  missile  for  Cape  Canaveral  in 
1950.  In  World  War  II,  he  was  responsible  for 
the  installation  and  operation  of  early-waming 
radar  equipment  on  the  West  Coast.  Also,  he 
helped  develop  radar  equipment  in  all  three 
stages:  spark  gap  transmitter,  vacuum  tube  and 
solid  state. 

Mr.  Gould  had  been  an  amateur  radio  opera- 
tor since  1914  and  a  licensed  amateur  first  class 
radio  operator  from  1919  until  his  death.  He 
belonged  to  the  American  Radio  Relay  League, 
the  National  Audubon  Society,  the  Antique 
Wireless  Association  and  the  Garden  State 
Wireless  Pioneers.  He  was  a  life  member  of  the 
IEEE  and  belonged  to  the  Veteran  Wireless  Op- 
erators Association,  the  Morse  Telegraph  Club 
and  the  Century  Wireless  Association  (charter 
member). 

Arthur  W.  Haley,  '26,  of  Columbus,  OH, 
died  suddenly  on  August  28,  1983.  An  electri- 
cal engineering  graduate,  he  was  bom  on  Feb- 
ruary 4,  1902,  in  Princeton,  MA. 

From  graduation  until  his  retirement  in  1965, 
Mr.  Haley  was  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.,  which  he  had  served  as  a  production 
supervisor,  design  engineer  and  section  man- 
ager for  refrigeration  units.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the  Masons  and  the  Ameri- 
can Society  of  Heating,  Refrigerating  and  Air 
Conditioning  Engineers.  He  was  a  former  vice 
president  of  the  Connecticut  Valley  chapter  of 
the  Alumni  Association. 

Elmer  Hansen,  '26,  the  retired  head  of  the 
electrical  engineering  section  of  the  Pennsylva- 
nia Power  &  Light  Co.,  Allentown,  PA,  died 
on  August  18,  1983,  at  the  age  of  79.  He  was  a 
native  of  Portland,  ME. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE,  he  joined  GE  and 
was  later  employed  by  Iowa  Electric  Light  & 
Power  Co.,  W.  R.  Grace  &  Co.,  American  & 
Foreign  Power  Corp.  and  Florida  Power  Corp. 
From  1948  until  his  retirement  in  1969,  he  was 
with  the  Pennsylvania  Power  &  Light  Co.  gen- 
erating station  in  Allentown.  Prior  to  being  pro- 
moted to  section  head,  he  had  been  senior  proj- 
ect engineer  in  the  electrical  engineering 
department.  He  belonged  to  the  AIEE,  the  IRE 
and  the  Masons. 

An  avid  cyclist,  he  often  gave  talks  on  bicy- 
cling. He  was  active  in  Congregational  Church 
work  for  many  years. 

Walton  P.  Lewis,  '28,  a  retired  Navy  com- 
mander and  former  president  of  the  Worcester 
City  Council,  died  July  23,  1983,  in  Laconia, 
NH.  He  was  77. 

Initially  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1928,  Mr. 
Lewis  actually  graduated  with  his  BSEE  in 
1954.  From  1930  until  1952,  he  was  employed 
by  American  Steel  &  Wire,  Worcester,  where 
he  served  as  an  electrical  cable  engineer  and 
consultant  for  defense  projects.  For  20  years  he 
was  an  electronics  engineer  with  the  Navy,  re- 
tiring in  1967.  Other  employers  were  RCA  and 
Raytheon.  He  had  retired  from  Eagles  Mere 
Realty,  Gilford,  NH. 


FEBRUARY  1984       47 


While  in  Worcester,  he  was  a  city  councilman 
and  president  of  the  Cit>  Council  He  belonged 
to  the  Aletheia  Grotto,  the  Masons  and  \arious 
Republican  clubs,  as  well  as  to  the  U.S.  Naval 
Institute,  the  A1EE  and  ATO  He  was  a  charter 
member  of  the  Worcester  chapter  of  De  Mola> . 

N.  Albert  Anderson.  '32.  died  at  his  home  in 
East  Dennis.  MA.  on  July  20.  1983.  at  the  age 
of  77.  A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WP1 

From  1924  until  1928  he  was  a  lab  assistant 
in  the  WP1  physics  department.  He  was  then 
with  Norton  Co.,  IBM  and  Sylvania  Electric. 
He  rejoined  Norton  in  1943.  During  his  career 
with  the  company,  he  served  as  a  machine  elec- 
trical engineer  with  the  machine  division  and  as 
chief  electrical  engineer  for  the  machine  tool 
division,  prior  to  his  retirement  in  1966. 

Mr.  Anderson,  a  former  member  of  Central 
Congregational  Church.  Worcester,  belonged  to 
the  AIEE  and  the  electrical  standards  commit- 
tee of  the  National  Machine  Tool  Builders  As- 
sociation. He  was  a  registered  professional  en- 
gineer in  Massachusetts 

Raymond  H.  Lynch.  '32.  retired  vice  presi- 
dent for  Lev  Construction  Co. .  died  at  his  home 
in  West  Springfield.  MA.  on  July  19.  1983.  He 
was  "2  and  a  native  of  Hopedale.  MA 

He  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer.  During  his 
career,  his  employers  were  J  G.  Roy  &  Sons. 
Co..  Fiske-Carter  Co.  and  Ley  Construction. 
from  which  he  retired  in  1975  as  vice  president 
Until  1981  he  was  a  consultant  for  Monsanto 
Co..  Springfield. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  he  be- 
longed to  PKT.  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi  He 
was  a  member  of  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle 
Church,  the  Knights  of  Columbus  and  the 
Springfield  Council  of  Retired  Executives 

Emil  C.   Ostlund.   '33,  of  Pocasset.    MA. 

drowned  when  he  fell  overboard  while  lobster- 
ing  off  Wing's  Neck.  He  was  bom  in  Brockton 
on  June  10.  1911. 

After  graduating  with  his  BSME.  he  joined 
U.S.  Rubber  Co.  He  then  worked  for  American 
Steel  &  Wire  Co..  a  division  of  U.S.  Steel  in 
Worcester.  Later,  as  chief  industrial  engineer 
for  U.S.  Steel,  he  was  transferred  to  Cleveland, 
then  Pittsburgh.  From  1966  until  1968.  he 
served  as  a  U.S.  Steel  consultant  in  Spain.  He 
retired  in  1969. 

Mr.  Ostlund  belonged  to  ATO.  Tau  Beta  Pi. 
the  Society  for  Advancement  of  Management 
and  the  Cleveland  Engineering  Society  Active 
in  alumni  affairs,  he  had  been  president  of  the 
Cleveland  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
captain  for  the  Alumni  Fund,  chairman  for  the 
capital  gifts  campaign  and  a  member  of  the 
Alumni  Council.  He  was  a  professional  engi- 
neer in  Ohio  and  Massachusetts. 

Dwight  J.  Dwinell.  '34,  a  retired  manager  for 
GTE  SyKania.  died  in  Newport.  VT.  on  Sep- 
tember 30.  1983.  at  the  age  of  71  He  was  a 
native  of  Orleans.  VT.  and  a  graduate  mechani- 
cal engineer. 

In  1973.  he  retired  as  manager  of  equipment 
design  for  GTE  Sylvania.  Inc..  at  the  compa- 
ny's equipment  development  plant  in  Salem. 
MA  He  had  been  with  the  company  for  37 
years.  Assigned  to  the  lighting  division,  he  be- 
came chief  engineer  and  held  several  patents. 

Mr.  Dwinell.  a  President's  Advisory  Council 


member,  belonged  to  the  ASTME  and  the 
ASME  and  had  been  active  in  Congregational 
church  work.  He  was  a  former  vice  president  of 
the  North  Shore  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion and  had  worked  for  the  Alumni  Fund  and 
for  the  Committee  on  Students. 

Carl  W.  Larson.  '40,  a  retired  Navy  lieutenant 
commander,  died  in  Memorial  Hospital  in  Wor- 
cester on  July  19.  1983.  at  the  age  of  85. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  held  a  BS  from 
Northeastern  and  an  MSME  from  WPI.  From 
1 923  until  1 94 1  he  w  as  an  instructor  in  mechan- 
ical engineering  at  WPI  Also,  he  had  taught 
at  Purdue  University  and  Ann  Arbor  State 
College 

He  enlisted  in  the  Navy  in  1941  and  became  a 
lieutenant  commander  in  1942  During  World 
War  II.  while  serving  with  the  Bureau  of  Ships, 
he  received  a  citation  from  the  Secretary  of  the 
Navy.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Naval  Reserves 
until  1963.  Later  he  became  a  civil  engineer  in 
the  assessor's  office  in  Worcester,  as  well  as  at 


In  Remembrance 
and  Tribute 

Professor  Richard  V.  ("Ollie")  Olson. 
'54.  Assistant  Professor  of  Mathematics, 
died  in  August  1983.  The  recently  estab- 
lished Richard  V.  Olson  Memorial  Award 
will  be  a  cash  prize  given  each  year  to  a 
WPI  sophomore  who  demonstrates  out- 
standing performance  in  the  Basic  Mathe- 
matics Sequence. 

The  award  is  designed  to  recognize  and 
honor  Ollie  s  dedication  to  the  education 
of  WPI  students.  On  the  college  faculty 
since  1962.  he  had  developed  close  rap- 
port with  his  students  and  maintained 
many  friendships  among  alumni. 

To  endow  this  award.  WPI  has  instituted 
the  Richard  V.  Olson  Memorial  Fund.  A 
faculty  committee  has  been  appointed  to 
administer  the  Fund. 

If  you'd  like  to  help  in  maintaining  this 
worthy  award,  please  write: 

Sharon  C.  Davis 

Alumni  Office 

Boynton  Hall.  3rd  Floor 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Worcester.  MA  01609 


the  Worcester  County  Electric  Co..  where  he 
helped  design  a  central  steam  generating  plant. 
Active  with  the  Salem  Covenant  Church,  he 
also  belonged  to  the  Reserve  Officers  of  the 
United  States,  the  Retired  Officers  Association, 
the  Military  Order  of  the  World  Wars  and  the 
Retired  State.  County  &  Municipal  Employees 
Association  of  Massachusetts. 

Dr  Robert  L.  Messier,  '40.  editor  of  Chemi- 
cal Abstracts.  Ohio  State  University.  Colum- 
bus, died  on  August  14.  1983.  He  was  bom  in 


Worcester  on  Sept.  13.  1917,  and  was  a  gradu- 
ate chemist. 

He  joined  the  magazine,  which  is  a  publica- 
tion of  the  American  Chemical  Society,  in 
1945.  after  receiving  his  MS  in  food  technology 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts  and  his 
PhD  in  biochemistry  from  Cornell.  He  be- 
longed to  the  ACS  and  the  American  Documen- 
tation Institute. 

Francis  J.  Boyle,  '41,  a  retired  mechanical  en- 
gineer from  the  Bendix  Corp..  passed  away  on 
September  22.  1983.  in  Wichita.  KS.  at  the  age 
of  64.  He  was  a  native  of  Saugus.  MA. 

During  his  career.  Mr.  Boyle  was  with  Bryant 
Chucking  Grinder  Co..  Matthews  Mfg.  Co., 
Lapointe  Machine  Tool  Co.  and  Continental 
Screw  Co.  At  the  time  of  his  retirement,  he  was 
a  senior  project  engineer  for  Bendix  in  Kansas 
City.  MO  He  was  a  member  of  the  Society  of 
Automotive  Engineers,  the  American  Legion 
and  the  Elks.  A  retired  USNR  commander,  in 
World  War  II  he  served  in  Alaska. 

H.  William  Thatcher,  '52,  died  in  Savannah. 
GA.  on  August  25.  1983.  at  the  age  of  57.  He 
was  bom  in  Milford.  MA.  and  received  his 
BSME  from  WPI. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  chief  engi- 
neer of  research  and  development  at  Hazlehurst 
(GA)  Mills,  a  subsidiary  of  American  Oil  Corp. 
Previously,  he  worked  for  many  years  at  the 
former  Draper  Corp.  in  Hopedale.  MA.  and  at 
Molded  Plastics  Co.  in  Worcester. 

He  had  belonged  to  the  ASME.  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon.  the  Hopedale  Country  Club  (charter 
member)  and  the  Hazlehurst  Country  Club 
(board  of  directors). 

Rodney  C.  Lewis.  '76,  formerly  of  Uxbridge. 
MA.  died  in  August  after  being  hit  by  a  truck  in 
North  Carolina. 

He  received  his  BS  in  physics  from  WPI  and 
later  won  a  scholarship  from  MIT's  Lincoln 
Laboratory  in  Lexington.  MA.  where  he 
worked  as  a  scientific  programmer.  Recently  he 
was  nominated  for  a  doctorate  in  physics. 

Capt.  Brian  S.  Besser,  '79,  died  in  Jedda. 
West  Saudi  Arabia,  on  September  2.  1983. 
while  diving  with  a  fellow  Army  officer  in  the 
Red  Sea.  He  suffered  an  embolism  while  he 
was  rescuing  his  companion  whose  tank  had 
runout  of  oxygen. 

He  was  bom  on  May  5.  1957,  in  Providence, 
RI.  In  1979  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer. 
While  with  the  RGTC  at  WPI.  he  was  awarded 
the  Cadet  of  the  Year  Award.  The  Army  Meri- 
torious Service  Award  has  been  given  to  his 
parents  for  his  work  in  the  construction  of  a 
military  base  in  Saudi  Arabia.  Active  with  the 
Boy  Scouts,  he  also  held  the  Eagle  Scout 
Award.  He  belonged  to  the  Baptist  Church  and 
Zeta  Psi. 

Theresa  A.  Veager.  '81,  died  in  Hartford.  CT. 
on  July  24.  1983.  She  was  24. 

A  native  of  Levittown.  PA.  she  was  bom  on 
Feb.  24.  1959.  After  studying  at  WPI.  she 
graduated  with  a  BS  in  engineering  from  Co- 
lumbia University's  School  of  Engineering.  She 
had  recently  completed  the  master's  program  at 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania  in  Philadelphia. 

At  the  time  of  her  death,  she  was  with  the 
engineering  division  of  Pran  &  Whitney  in  East 
Hartford.  CT 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


FEEDBACK 


A  Note  to  the  Parents 
of  WPI  Students 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that,  begin- 
ning with  this  issue,  you  will  receive  the 
Journal  with  the  compliments  of  the  col- 
lege. We  hope  it  provides  you  with  a 
closer  look  at.  and  a  better  understanding 
of.  WPI.  We'll  welcome  your  comments. 

Who's  on  First? 

Editor:  In  1954.  Alan  and  I  enrolled  in 
WPI's  Graduate  Physics  Program.  This 
program  was  set  up  in  the  evening  (a  proud 
first  for  the  Physics  Department),  enabling 
us  to  continue  our  education  while  work- 
ing at  the  research  lab  of  American  Optical 
Company  in  Southbridge. 
Alan  and  I  completed  all  the  require- 


ments for  the  degree,  and  we  received  our 
M.S.  degrees  in  Physics  in  June  1957.  I 
was  the  first  woman  graduate  of  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute. 

As  I  recall,  the  only  inconvenience  (for 
me  as  a  woman)  was  overcome  by  my  car- 
rying a  "LADIES*-  sign  to  post  over  the 
rest  rooms  on  the  evenings  I  attended 
classes  and  had  to  use  such  facilities. 

Audrey  Michaels  Carlan.  '57  MSPH 

As  Judith  Nitsch,    '75,   reported  in  her 
i   story  on  women  at  WPI  (August  1983), 
Leslie  Small  Zorabedian.  '72,  was  the  first 
woman  undergraduate  at  WPI.  —Ed. 

Counting  on  You 

The  August  1983  Journal  presented  a  pot- 


pourri of  "Megameanings."  Solomon 
Golomb's  conversion  table  for  scientific 
units,  indicating  a  series  of  precise  numer- 
ical relationships.  Here  are  some  addi- 
tional Megameanings.  submitted  by  a 
couple  of  our  more.  um.  creative  readers. 

\(T  microspheres  =  2  hemispheres 
10"  counters  =  1  gigacounter 
6  gongs  =  1  hexagon 
100  rabbits  (hares)  =  1  hectare 
1  three-car  collision  =  1  trident 
10^  bucks  =  1  megabuck 

-Walter  Teal.  '78 

l/10Arnaz  =  1  Deci  Arnaz 

10"  babies  =  1  giga  gugu  gaga 

—Mark  Lepkowski.  '82 


TRADITION 


It's  the  heart  of  every  Reunion  Weekend. 

Make  plans  now  to  renew  friendships,  rediscover  WPI  and 
take  home  more  fond  memories  of  your  alma  mater. 

May  31-June  3,  1984 

For  the  Classes  of  1924,  1929,  1934,  1939.  1944,  1949.  1954,  1959  and  1964. 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  •A\-TITL1T 


Catching 

Clouds  Atop 

Mk  Washington 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  87,  NUMBER  4 


Staff  of  THE  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Sports  Editor,  Gene  Blaum 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  Donald  E. 
Ross,  '54,  chair;  Robert  C.  Gosling,  '68; 
Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37;  Stanley  R  Negus, 
Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-18,  35-52,  ®1984 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI 
®  1984,  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Production  Coordina- 
tor. Amy  Doudiken;  Designer,  Ellen  Cohen; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Gerald  Eckert  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Philip  Benoit  and  Merrilee  Gomillion; 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.J.  Norris  and 
Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M.  Whitaker; 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Donald  F. 
Berth  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments: 

Typesetting,  BG  Composition  Inc.;  Printing, 
American  Press  Inc. 


Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


MAY  1984 


5  The  Future  through  Computers 

A  revolution  beyond  work-saving  gadgets. 
Dr.  Louis  Robinson 

6  WPFs  Changing  of  the  Deans 

Kenneth  McDonnell 

10  A  Big  Stakes  Game 

Jim  Hohorst,  '76,  CE,  at  Merrill  Lynch. 

12  Investing  in  the  Future 

WPI's  endowment  is  at  an  all-time  high. 

14  To  Catch  a  Cloud 

Are  acid  clouds  as  dangerous  as  acid  rain? 
WPI  students  climbed  a  mountain  to  find  out. 
Michael  Shanley 

18  Mr.  Coordination  Chemistry 


I  Getting  Down  to  the  Bottom  Line 

On  how  to  interpret  an  annual  report. 
Mary  Ruth  Yoe 

IV  Bowie  Kuhn  and  Baseball 

Presiding  as  the  game  became  an  industry. 
Eric  Garland 

X  What's  the  No.  1  Number? 

Counting  down  the  Top  Ten  digits. 
Robert  Kanigel 

34  Alumni  get  into  the  Admissions  Act 

Walter  J.  Bank,  '46  EE 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 
Class  Notes        38 
Completed  Careers       49 


PageX 
Cover:  Atop  New  Hamsphire's  Mt.  Washington,  Bruce  Daube.  '84  ME,  tends  the  cloud 
collector  he  and  three  other  students  designed  and  built.  Photo  by  Andrew  Cott,  "85  EE. 
Opposite:  A  Biology  and  Biotechnology  student  adjusts  a  perfusion  apparatus  that  can  keep 
this  rats  heart  "alive"  for  hours  (Michael  Carroll  photo). 


MAY  1984        1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Howard  G.  Freeman 


A  Change  at  the  Helm 

Howard  G.  Freeman.  '40  ME.  '47 
MSME.  chairman  and  president  of  James- 
bun.  Corp..  Worcester,  was  elected  chair- 
man of  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  WPI.  ef- 
fective January  1.  1984.  He  succeeds  Paul 
B.  Morgan.  '30.  president  of  Morgan 
Construction  Co..  Worcester,  who  served 
as  chairman  for  five  years. 

Irving  James  Donahue.  '44  ME.  presi- 
dent of  Donahue  Industries  Inc..  Shrews- 
bun.,  was  elected  vice  chairman  of  the 
Board,  succeeding  Freeman  in  this  post. 

Freeman  has  been  a  Board  member 
since  1969.  He  is  a  director  of  Rodney 
Hunt  Company,  the  Stewart  Systems 
Corp.  and  the  Icon  Corp.  He  is  also  a 
trustee  of  the  Worcester  Art  Museum. 

In  1972.  Freeman  received  the  WPI 
Goddard  Award  in  recognition  of  distin- 
guished professional  achievement.  The 
award  is  named  after  Robert  Goddard. 
'08.  the  father  of  rocket-powered  flight. 
Freeman  was  also  awarded  the  1976  Engi- 
neering Society  Achievement  Award  for 
inventions,  patents,  and  contributions  to 
valve  manufacturing.  In  1981  Central 
New  England  College  awarded  him  an 
honorary  doctorate  in  management. 

Morgan  currently  serves  as  chairman  of 
the  Worcester  Charter  Commission.  He 
will  continue  as  a  WPI  trustee-at-large.  He 


joined  the  Board  in  1966,  succeeding  his 
late  father.  Philip  M.  Morgan,  to  become 
the  fourth  generation  of  his  family  to  serve 
on  the  WPI  Board. 


Construction  Update 

At  press  time,  construction  of  WPI's  sixth 
residence  center  was  about  to  begin,  with 
occupancy  planned  for  September  1985. 

The  center,  as  yet  unnamed,  will  be  lo- 
cated between  Boynton  and  Dean  streets  in 
the  block  bounded  by  Institute  Road  and 
Salisbury  Street.  The  estimated  cost  for 
construction  and  furnishings  is  S7  million. 
The  new  center,  on  a  site  that  includes  the 
WPI  tennis  courts,  is  in  an  area  where 
seven  fraternities  and  one  sorority  are  lo- 
cated. 

This  new  residence  center  will  provide 
on-campus  housing  for  229  students."  said 
WPI  President  Edmund  T  Cranch  in  an- 
nouncing construction  plans.  "It  will  meet 
the  needs  of  a  large  portion  of  those  stu- 
dents who  prefer  to  live  on  campus  after 
the  freshman  year  but— because  of  limited 
dormitory  space— now  must  compete  for 
rental  housing  in  Worcester." 

For  several  years,  upperclassmen  desir- 


ing campus  housing  have  had  to  partici- 
pate in  a  lottery.  The  new  center  will 
greatly  alleviate,  though  not  eliminate,  the 
present  shortage. 

The  center  will  be  four  floors  high,  of 
red-brick  construction  with  a  sloping  roof. 
The  building  will  be  constructed  in  a  series 
of  offset,  connecting  sections.  Housing 
will  be  provided  for  both  men  and  women. 

The  center  will  also  contain  complete 
dining  facilities  for  residents.  (When  the 
building  is  completed.  WPI  will  operate 
two  separate  kitchens  and  student  dining 
rooms  at  opposite  ends  of  the  campus.) 
Located  in  the  basement  will  be  a  study 
area  and  space  reserved  for  computer  ter- 
minals. 

Site  preparation  involves  the  removal  of 
Five  college-owned  houses.  The  WPI  ten- 
nis courts  at  the  comer  of  Boynton  Street 
and  Institute  Road  will  also  be  relocated. 

This  will  be  WPI's  First  new  building 
since  completion  of  the  Ellsworth  and 
Fuller  residence  centers  in  1973.  Since 
then,  construction  funds  have  been  di- 
rected toward  renovation:  In  1976,  the  col- 
lege's First  dormitory,  Sanford  Riley  Hall, 
was  fully  renovated,  and  the  following 
year,  Salisbury  Laboratories,  built  in 
1887,  were  completely  modernized. 


Residence  Hall  6  will  house  more  than  225  students.  Its  architecture  reflects  the 
traditional  lines  of  Sanford  Riley. 


2       WPI  JOURNAL 


Boynton  Hall— one  of  WPI's  two  origi- 
nal buildings,  constructed  in  1868— was 
then  vacated  for  a  year  to  enable  workmen 
to  renovate  its  interior.  Atwater  Kent  Lab- 
oratories were  renovated  and  expanded  in 
1981  to  modernize  electrical  engineering 
laboratories  and  to  provide  a  home  for  the 
rapidly  expanding  Department  of  Com- 
puter Science. 

WPI's  other  original  building,  the 
Washburn  Shops,  is  now  undergoing  reno- 
vation. Work  began  last  spring,  and  a  por- 
tion of  the  building  was  completed  in  time 
for  occupancy  this  past  February.  Work  on 
the  original  wing  will  be  completed  this 
summer. 

"With  the  end  of  the  current  renovation 
projects,  our  campus  physical  plant  will  be 
in  excellent  condition,"  said  Dr.  Cranch. 
"Renovation  has  enabled  WPI  to  modern- 
ize its  laboratory  and  classroom  facilities 
to  meet  today's  educational  needs  while  at 
the  same  time  preserving  the  architectural 
heritage  of  the  college." 


Winter  Sports: 
The  Beat  Goes  On 

Exciting  and  successful:  this  was  the 
1983-84  winter  sport  season  for  WPI  var- 
sity athletics.  All  season,  outstanding  indi- 
vidual accomplishments  combined  with 
cohesive  and  spirited  team  play,  enabling 
WPI  to  achieve  one  of  its  best  seasons  in 
recent  memory. 

Head  coach  Phil  Grebinar's  wrestling 
team  enjoyed  its  eighth  consecutive  win- 
ning season  as  the  Engineers  finished  with 
an  18-3  dual-meet  record  and  placed  third 
at  the  New  England  Division  III  champi- 
onships. Senior  Stu  MacEachern,  EE,  Sci- 
tuate,  MA,  and  junior  Roland  Marquis, 
ME,  Nashua,  NH,  won  the  150-  and  126- 
pound  weight  classes,  respectively,  at  the 
New  Englands  and  advanced  to  the  NCAA 
Division  III  national  championships. 

Senior  Rich  Testa,  CE,  Wayland,  MA, 
had  an  equally  outstanding  year,  finishing 
with  a  dazzling  18-1  record,  which  set  a 


Stu  MacEachern,  New  England  Division  III  150-lb.  class  wrestling  champion. 


school  mark  for  most  dual-meet  victories 
in  a  season.  Testa  also  tied  the  school  rec- 
ord for  most  pins  in  a  year,  with  1 1 . 

Across  the  hall  in  Harrington  Audito- 
rium, the  men's  and  women's  basketball 
teams  chalked  up  victories  as  the  men  re- 
bounded from  a  1-3  start  to  win  13  of  their 
last  19  games  and  finish  with  a  14-9  rec- 
ord. 

Coach  Ken  Kaufman's  club  enjoyed  its 
third  consecutive  winning  year,  a  feat  that 
hadn't  been  accomplished  at  WPI  since 
the  1938-39,  1939-40  and  1940-41  sea- 
sons. This  year's  campaign  saw  junior 
guards  Orville  Bailey,  ME,  Springfield, 
MA  (1,180  career  points)  and  Gregg 
Fiddes,  MEB,  Webster,  MA  (1,01 1  career 
points)  break  the  coveted  1 ,000-point  pla- 
teau. The  high  scoring  backcourt  duo  cur- 
rently stand  fifth  and  eighth,  respectively, 
on  the  all-time  WPI  scoring  list. 

Freshman  center  John  Loonie,  CS, 
Brockton,  MA,  emerged  as  a  towering 
weapon,  averaging  10  points  and  9  re- 
bounds a  game.  In  addition  he  broke  the 
school  record  for  blocked  shots  in  a  sea- 
son, with  49.  Next  season,  WPI  will  have 
to  replace  the  performance  and  leadership 
of  seniors  Chris  Roche,  EE,  East  Haven, 
CT,  and  Larry  Manor,  EE,  Hudson,  NH. 
Roche  finished  his  career  by  averaging  13 


points  a  game,  while  Manor  was  second  in 
rebounding  with  153. 

Meanwhile,  women's  basketball  earned 
its  first  NCAA  Tournament  invitation  and 
concluded  the  season  at  20-4,  the  best  rec- 
ord in  their  eight  seasons  of  varsity  play. 
Senior  center  Chiara  Whalen,  CE,  Brick, 
NJ,  accomplished  something  no  other  bas- 
ketball player  at  WPI  has  ever  done:  be- 
coming the  first  to  tally  more  than  1 ,000 
points  and  1,000  rebounds  in  a  career. 
Chiara  finished  second  in  women's  scoring 
with  1 ,376  points  and  as  the  top  rebounder 
with  1,153. 

As  the  season  ended,  head  coach  Sue 
Chapman,  who  has  compiled  a  108-52 
record  in  eight  years,  was  named  New  En- 
gland Division  III  Women's  Coach  of  the 
Year  by  the  New  England  Women's  Bas- 
ketball Association.  She  received  tremen- 
dous performances  all  season  from  sopho- 
mores Cathy  Murray,  CM,  Berkeley 
Heights,  NJ;  Kim  Fay,  MG,  Nashua,  NH; 
Mara  Catlin,  EE,  Shelton,  CT;  and  Donna 
Leonard,  ME,  North  Easton,  MA;  and 
from  freshman  Cindy  Perkins,  MA, 
Nashua,  NH. 

Finally,  the  men's  swimming  team  con- 
tinued its  resurgence  by  winning  six  dual 
meets  as  juniors  Bruce  Carbone,  ME, 
Leominster,  MA,  and  Dave  Jalbert.  ME, 


MAY  1984       3 


West  Simsbury.  CT.  continued  to  rewrite 
the  school  record  book.  Carbone  set  new 
marks  in  200  and  400  individual  medleys. 
while  Jalbert  etched  his  name  in  the  swim- 
ming annals  in  the  60  freestyle. 

—Gene  Blaum 
Sports  Information  Director 
Gene  succeeds  Mark  Mandel,  who  last 
December  accepted  a  position  as  Sports 
Information  Director  at  Washington  &  Lee 
University;  Lexington,  VA. 


$1.2  Million  Grant  for 
Computers 

The  George  I.  Alden  Trust  of  Worcester 
has  awarded  WPI  SI. 2  million  to  help  in- 
tegrate computers  into  the  Institute's  aca- 
demic programs.  The  grant  will  be  used 
largely  by  faculty  to  computerize  their 
classes,  projects  and  experiments.  The  re- 
mainder will  be  set  aside  to  begin  a  fund  to 
plan  and  build  new  space  for  the  Computer 
Science  and  Electrical  Engineering  depart- 
ments, two  of  WPI's  fastest-growing  pro- 
grams. 

Commenting  on  the  grant.  WPI  Presi- 
dent Edmund  T.  Cranch  said.  "The  infor- 
mation revolution,  like  the  Industrial  Rev- 
olution that  began  here  in  New  England 
more  than  a  century  ago,  will  revolution- 
ize education,  how  we  work,  and  life  in 
general.  Colleges  must  provide  students  in 
all  disciplines  with  the  expertise  to  use  the 
power  of  the  computer  in  a  host  of  contem- 
porary applications." 

George  I.  Alden.  who  taught  mechani- 
cal engineering  at  WPI  for  nearly  three 
decades,  was  a  founder  of  the  Norton 
Company  in  1885.  The  Alden  Trust  also 
provided  funds  for  constructing  Alden 
Memorial  Hall  and  for  renovating  Salis- 
bury Labs  and  Atwater  Kent  Labs. 

New  Role  for  Hebert 

To  the  vast  majority  of  alumni,  Stephen  J. 
Hebert.    66  CE,  is  "Mr.  WPI."  He  has 


served  as  Director  of  Alumni  Affairs  since 
1971  and  joined  the  Office  of  University 
Relations  in  1969. 

Steve's  role  will  be  shifting  somewhat  in 
the  months  and  years  ahead.  Effective 
February  1,  1984,  Steve  has  been  ap- 
pointed Director  of  Development  and 
Alumni  Relations  at  WPI.  According  to 
Donald  F.  Berth,  "57  CHE,  Vice  Presi- 
dent. University  Relations,  in  his  new  post 
Steve  will  be  responsible  for  major-gifts 
development  and  planned  giving,  as  well 
as  alumni  affairs. 

"Steve  has  achieved  an  enviable  record 
in  alumni  affairs,"  says  Berth.  "He  enjoys 
the  fullest  confidence  and  trust  of  all  of  us 
who've  worked  with  him,  both  on  and  off 
campus.  I  know  of  no  other  individual 
more  ably  suited  to  undertake  this  vital 
role." 

Under  Steve's  leadership,  the  number  of 
alumni  actively  involved  in  WPI  programs 
has  grown  tenfold.  The  Alumni  Annual 
Fund  has  received  five  consecutive  U.S. 
Steel  Awards,  honoring  WPI's  campaign 
as  one  of  the  most  successful  collegiate 
programs  in  the  nation.  Only  Dartmouth 


i 


** 


% 


Steve  Hebert,  '66  CE,  now  oversees  ma- 
jor gifts  and  alumni  affairs. 


College  and  the  University  of  Michigan 
have  achieved  similar  records  of  distinc- 
tion. 

While  a  student  at  WPI,  Steve  was  pres- 
ident of  Skull,  the  senior  honor  society. 
Following  graduation,  he  returned  to 
Springfield,  VT,  as  teacher  and  athletic 
coach  in  the  public-school  system. 

He  joined  WPI  in  1969  as  assistant 
alumni  secretary-treasurer  and  editor  of 
the  WPI  Journal.  Steve  serves  on  the  ex- 
ecutive committee  of  the  New  England  re- 
gion of  the  Council  for  the  Advancement 
and  Support  of  Education  (CASE)  as  well 
as  on  CASE'S  national  management  advi- 
sory committee.  He  is  also  past  chairman 
of  the  New  England  Alumni  Trust,  a  con- 
sortium of  100  colleges  and  universities. 

In  his  free  time,  which  may  become 
even  scarcer  now,  Steve  is  a  local  basket- 
ball official  and  has  been  seen  stalking  lit- 
tle white  balls  on  the  fairways  of  Wor- 
cester Country  Club. 

Tuition  Climbs 

In  a  letter  sent  to  parents  in  late  February, 
President  Edmund  T.  Cranch  announced  a 
9.6  percent  rise  in  tuition  for  the  1984-85 
academic  year,  up  from  $7,300  in  1983- 
84,  to  $8,000.  The  increase  will  be  ac- 
companied by  rises  in  room  and  board. 
The  actual  cost  to  students,  however,  will 
depend  on  the  accommodations  and  meal 
plans  they  choose.  For  most  students  liv- 
ing on  campus,  the  cost  of  a  year  of  tui- 
tion, room  and  board  will  amount  to  about 
$11,100. 

Major  investments  in  the  use  of  com- 
puters in  core  courses,  projects  and  labora- 
tory instruction  contribute  to  these  in- 
creases, Dr.  Cranch  said.  "To  ensure  the 
accessability  of  a  WPI  education,  we  are 
making  every  effort  to  minimize  relative 
erosion  in  our  financial-aid  program."  Last 
year,  WPI  provided  some  S3.1  million  of 
its  own  funds  for  financial  aid,  spread 
among  1,250  students.  "We've  made 
every  effort  to  keep  tuition  hikes  to  a  mini- 
mum," he  added. 


4       WPI  JOURNAL 


Redefining 

the  Future 

Through  Computers 


By  Dr.  Louis  Robinson 


Each  morning  on  New  York  City's  Sev- 
enth Avenue,  in  the  heart  of  the  gar- 
ment district,  a  man  (or  woman)  dons 
a  white  coat  and  steps  to  a  worktable.  He 
unrolls  a  bolt  of  cloth,  smooths  it  on  the 
table,  and  examines  it  for  imperfections. 

Cantilevered  over  the  table  is  a  device 
resembling  an  X-ray  machine.  Finding  an 
imperfection  in  the  fabric,  the  man  moves 
the  cross-hairs  aiming  system  of  the  device 
until  it  shines  directly  onto  the  defect.  By 
pressing  a  control  button,  he  tells  the  ma- 
chine's computer  system  to  memorize  the 
blemish's  exact  geometric  location.  He  re- 
peats this  examination  until  his  trained  eye 
has  located  every  defect. 

Now,  checking  the  order  before  him— 
perhaps  for  a  woman's  size  9  dress— he 
keys  that  information  into  the  system.  All 
the  rules  and  formulae  for  this  particular 
dress's  pattern,  coupled  with  adjustments 
for  the  order  at  hand,  reside  in  another  part 
of  the  computer's  memory. 

Next,  the  computer  lays  out  the  pattern 
on  the  fabric,  guaranteeing  that  the  partem 
never  intersects  with  any  of  the  imperfec- 
tions already  identified.  The  system  also 
ensures  that  the  least  possible  cloth  is 
used,  while  allowing  for  proper  matching 
of  the  cloth's  design.  This  done,  the 
worker  presses  another  button,  and  a  laser 
beam  shines  from  the  device,  cutting  the 
cloth  with  glistening  speed. 


And  when  the  man  goes  home  at  night 
and  someone  asks  him  what  he  does  for  a 
living,  he  replies.  "I'm  a  tailor."  And  he  is 
a  tailor— using  technology  that  is  redefin- 
ing the  way  he  works. 

Across  town,  over  coffee,   a  writer 
L\ friend  of  mine  queries,  "So  where  is 

1  Lit?" 

"Where's  what?"  I  reply.  "The  revolu- 
tion." she  says.  "The  computer  revolu- 
tion. I  still  have  to  vacuum  the  rugs  and 
drive  the  kids  to  dance  class  and  prepare 
dinner.  How  has  the  computer  changed  mv 
life'7" 

The  misconception  is  common  enough. 
But  we're  not  talking  so  much  about 
mechanized  automation  when  we  refer  to 
the  so-called  computer  revolution.  Rather, 
we're  describing  technologies  that  bring 
about  radically  improved  changes  in  how 
we  manage  information:  recording,  tran- 
scribing, organizing,  manipulating  and 
retrieving  information,  data,  facts  and  fig- 
ures—call it  what  you  want.  The  computer 
is  simply  the  symbol  of  this  age  of  con- 
stant change. 

To  put  this  amazing  technology  into  per- 
spective, let's  visit  an  earlier  player  in  the 
drama  unfolding:  one  Johann  Gutenberg. 
Some  500  years  ago.  Gutenberg's  inven- 
tion of  movable  type  opened  the  gates  to 
literacy.  He  gave  us  our  books  and  our 


newspapers:  and  he  had  a  hand  in  virtually 
every  facet  of  a  rapidly  changing  world 
society. 

But  imagine  asking  Gutenberg  to  predict 
the  dramatic  consequences  of  movable 
type  on  our  lives.  What  was  the  big  impact 
of  movable  type,  skeptics  might  ask.  be- 
sides, maybe,  the  invention  of  printing, 
besides  the  way  we  educate  ourselves,  be- 
sides how  we  think  about  life,  besides  how 
we  work  and  play.  .  .  ! 

In  this  way,  computers  are  a  lot  like 
movable  type,  yet  to  ask  for  the  exact  enu- 
meration of  the  computer's  future  impact 
would  be  as  absurd  as  asking  Gutenberg. 
500  years  ago.  to  predict  the  broadest  im- 
pact of  his  invention.  For  today,  changes 
are  occurring  much,  much  faster. 

Foreseeing  the  trends  for  the  next  10  to 
20  years,  let  alone  five  centuries  hence,  is 
no  less  impossible  for  us  than  it  was  for 
Johann.  And  working  in  research  or  edu- 
cation or  business  doesn't  guarantee  a 
clear  crystal  ball,  either.  In  fact,  technolo- 
gists historically  have  been  very  poor  fore- 
casters of  the  long-term  implications  of 
their  work.  In  1926.  for  example.  Dr.  Lee 
DeForest.  who  invented  the  vacuum  tube, 
used  later  (before  transistors)  in  radios  and 
TVs,  wrote.  "Commercially  and  finan- 
cially. I  consider  [television]  an  impossi- 
bility, a  development  on  which  we  need 
waste  little  time  dreaming." 

But  as  the  French  poet  and  philosopher 
Antoine  de  Saint-Exupery  once  observed. 
"As  for  the  future,  your  task  is  not  to  fore- 
see but  to  enable."  Enabling:  this  is  the 
mission  of  the  computer. 

It's  easy  to  entertain  the  conceit  that 
computers  will  never  be  much  more 
modern  than  they  are  today.  We  may 
believe  that  we've  seen  the  ultimate  in 
things  like  cryogenic  circuits,  bubble 
memories,  ink  jet  printers  and  gas  panel 
displays.  But  history  instructs  that  these 
technologies  will  soon  appear  dated.  Com- 
puters will  become  faster,  more  reliable; 
there  will  be  breakthroughs  in  program- 

continued  on  inside  back  cover 


MAY  19S4 


A  Threshold  Crossed 

Vice  President  and  Dean  of  the  Faculty  Ray  E.  Bolz  retires  in  June.  From  his  Boynton  Hall 

office  he's  watched  over  a  college  that  in  his  1 1  years  here  has  recharted  its  course. 

He's  also  looked  out  on  downtown  Worcester,  a  city  revitalized  by  its  ability  to  grab 

opportunity.  Yet  this  perspective  symbolizes  the  growing  need  to  bring  more  public  and 

private  backing  "up  the  Hill"  to  a  WPI  intent  on  earning  greater  national  recognition. 

And  it's  from  this  office  that  Ray  Bolz's  successor,  Dr.  Richard  H.  Gallagher, 

will  take  up  the  challenge. 


By  Kenneth  McDonnell 


It  was  over  the  shrimp  bowl  at  a  confer- 
ence of  engineering  educators  that  then 
WPI  President  Dr.  George  Hazzard  ap- 
proached his  old  friend.  Ray  Bolz,  who  at 
the  time  was  dean  of  engineering  at  Case 
Western  Reserve  Universit> . 

"Know  of  anyone  qualified  to  get  a  new 
way  of  teaching  engineering  and  science 
up  and  running?"  was  Hazzard's  query. 
"Not  offhand.'*  was  Bolz's  response. 
Hazzard  came  back:  "How  about  you?" 
"Me?"  Bolz  chuckled.  "Not  a  chance." 
"Come     visit     us."     the     president 
concluded. 

Ray  Bolz  would  soon  learn  just  how  per- 
suasive George  Hazzard  could  be. 

Ray  Bolz  was  no  stranger  to  innovation 
in  education  when  he  first  set  foot  on 
the  WPI  campus  in  1973.  While  at 
Case  Western  Reserve  University,  where 
he'd  progressed  through  the  academic 
ranks  to  become  dean  of  the  engineering 
school,  he  had  seen  early  on  that  most 
postwar  technological  achievements— ra- 
dar, jet  propulsion,  nuclear  power — came 


i 


^ 


7-Ji 


from  the  work  of  scientists,  not  so  much 
from  engineering.  In  response,  he  forged  a 
new  program  at  Case.  Engineering  Sci- 
ence. It  brought  to  engineering  students 
fundamental  changes  in  how  they  were 
taught,  infusing  their  education  with  more 
courses  in  the  engineering  sciences  and  the 
pure  and  applied  sciences— mathematics, 
physics,  chemistry— and  reducing  the  use 
of  rote  formulae  in  problem-solving. 

Later,  in  the  early  1960s,  he  convinced 
the  Case  faculty  to  eliminate  departmental 
designations  in  engineering,  instead  orga- 
nizing faculty  into  groups  based  on  subject 
areas  taught.  Where  previously,  say,  civil 
and  mechanical  engineering  professors 
taught  mechanics,  now  an  Applied  Me- 
chanics and  Structures  Group  taught  it. 
Likewise,  everyone  who  taught  thermal 


engineering  or  fluid  mechanics  was  now 
under  the  umbrella  of  the  Fluids.  Thermal 
and  Aeronautics  Group.  Students  still  ma- 
jored in  ME.  CE.  EE  or  CHE.  but  they 
took  courses  from  these  disciplinary 
groups. 

For  several  years,  all  went  well,  until 
Bolz  and  his  colleagues  realized  just  how 
unconventional  this  system  was.  "It's 
tough  to  buck  the  outside  world."  he  says 
now.  Recruiters,  for  one  thing,  had  a  hard 
time  understanding  its  merit.  And  he  real- 
ized that  faculty  normally  need  to  be  mem- 
bers of  professional  societies  that  are  asso- 
ciated with  departments,  rather  than  by 
more  specialized  groups.  After  a  decade  of 
experience,  Bolz,  far  wiser  for  the  experi- 
ence, gradually  reinstated  Case's  old 
system. 

"George  Hazzard  convinced  me  that 
WPI  would  be  a  good  place  to  help  run 
another  experiment,"  he  says.  When  Bolz 
arrived  in  Worcester,  the  nation  was  in  a 
state  of  flux.  Though  campus  unrest 
everywhere  had  settled  down,  Vietnam 
veterans  were  trying  to  find  their  way  back 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


home,  and  the  embarrassment  of  Wa- 
tergate was  just  unfolding. 

At  WPI,  too,  there  was  upheaval,  in  the 
form  of  the  WPI  Plan— conceived  by  fac- 
ulty and  students,  implemented  in  a  cli- 
mate of  uncertainty  and  risk.  Ray  Bolz  and 
Dean  of  Undergraduate  Studies  William 
R.  Grogan,  '46  EE,  MSEE,  were  given 
the  tenuous  task  of  getting  the  bugs  out  of 
this  totally  new,  untested  educational  sys- 
tem, one  that  called  for  greater  faculty 
commitment  and  a  remarkable  amount  of 
freedom  for  students  to  design  their  own 
curricula,  a  system  whose  creation  pre- 
ceded Bolz's  arrival  by  several  years.  The 
newcomer  became  the  test  pilot. 

"I  knew  of  no  fallback  position,"  he 
says  today.  "It  was  all  or  nothing." 

Those  were  tough  years  at  WPI,  for  both 
faculty  and  administration.  Courses  had  to 
be  redesigned  for  the  new  seven-week 
terms.  Competency  examinations  had  to 
be  conceived.  The  massive  projects  pro- 
gram needed  to  be  up  and  going.  Further- 
more, in  those  transition  years  some  stu- 
dents were  enrolled  on  the  Plan;  others 
weren't.  All  this,  while  the  college  went 
on  teaching,  housing,  feeding,  competing 
in  athletics— educating  a  student  body  that 
has  grown  from  1,800  in  1970  to  more 
than  2,400  today. 

The  administrative  pressures  were  stag- 
gering. Still,  Bolz  credits  the  faculty  and 
his  colleagues  in  Boynton  Hall  for  making 
the  Plan  work.  He  admits,  though,  that 
"whatever  the  faculty  has  become,  I'm 
most  responsible,"  for  he  has  hired  about 
55  percent  of  today's  roughly  200  full-time 
teachers. 

But  Bolz  and  others  knew  that  the  Plan 
alone  could  never  distinguish  WPI  in  the 
manner  they  sought.  There  was  still  much 
to  be  done,  not  least  of  which  was  motivat- 
ing faculty  to  dive  into  yet  other,  un- 
charted waters. 

Some  departments  needed  greater 
strength  and  breadth.  The  Department  of 
Management,  for  example,  launched  its 
MBA  program  in  1980.  And  in  the  Biolog- 
ical Sciences,  later  called  Life  Sciences 
and  now  known  as  Biology  and  Biotech- 


"The  WPI  plan  was  an  all- 
or-nothing  proposition.  I 
knew  of  no  fallback  position." 

nology,  students  today  enjoy  opportunities 
for  firsthand  work  in  such  fast-growing 
fields  of  technology  as  genetics  and  cell 
science.  The  new  Worcester  Biotechnol- 
ogy Park,  bringing  together  the  resources 
of  business  and  science  to  get  new  ideas  in 
biotechnology  to  market,  will  soon  take  up 
residence  adjacent  to  the  University  of 
Massachusetts  Medical  Center  (near  the 
shores  of  Lake  Quinsigamond).  Ray  Bolz 
has  helped  to  make  the  Park  a  reality. 

In  other  areas,  Bolz  orchestrated  a  reor- 
ganization and  turnaround  that  has  nur- 
tured a  Humanities  Department  of  unusual 
quality  and  vigor.  He  credits  past  depart- 
ment head  Dr.  Donald  Johnson  for  much 
of  this  success.  When  Bolz  arrived,  two 
separate  departments— English,  and  His- 
tory, Modern  Languages,  Music  and  Art- 
competed  vigorously  for  attention.  "Don 
and  I,  with  the  cooperation  of  the  faculty— 
particularly  Prof.  Charles  Heventhal— 
united  these  two  faculties  and  recruited 
well  over  half  of  the  department's  21  full- 
time  faculty,"  says  Bolz. 

"The  vitality  of  a  college,"  he  asserts, 
"depends  largely  on  its  ability  to  respond 
quickly  to  ever-changing  educational  de- 
mands brought  on  by  conditions  beyond 
the  campus  gate."  The  Mathematical  Sci- 
ences Department,  he  says,  is  a  good  ex- 
ample of  how  the  focus  of  a  discipline 
should  be  able  to  adapt. 

Ten  years  ago,  mathematics  at  WPI  was 


taught  largely  by  "pure"  mathematicians. 
Today,  it  is  an  applied  mathematics  de- 
partment, preparing  students  for  profes- 
sions in  operations  research,  computer 
mathematics,  statistics  and  actuarial  math- 
ematics, as  well  as  for  graduate  school, 
teaching  and  scientific  research.  "And  I 
hope  we'll  see  a  Master  of  Applied  Mathe- 
matics program  come  on  the  scene  in  the 
next  few  years,"  he  adds. 

"We're  kind  of  proud  of  the  CAD  pro- 
gram, too,"  Bolz  admits.  Computer-aided 
design  is  finding  more  and  more  money- 
saving  applications  in  all  fields  of  manu- 
facturing. With  funding  and  equipment 
donated  by  Computervision  Corp.,  Prof. 
Ken  Scott's  ('48  ME)  CAD  Lab  has  a 
waiting  list  of  students  eager  to  get  their 
hands  on  this  exciting  technology. 

WPI  now  awards  a  master's  degree  in 
firesafety  engineering.  Though  the  MSF 
Program  is  just  four  years  old,  it  is  fast 
gaining  momentum  as  the  only  master's 
curriculum  in  the  country.  Already,  about 
35  students  are  enrolled,  and  WPI 
awarded  the  program's  first  three  de- 
grees during  last  year's  commencement 
ceremonies. 

Developing  programs  for  university/ 
industry  cooperation  has  been  one  of 
Bolz's  most  challenging  goals.  Largely 
through  his  efforts  and  those  of  Prof. 
Donald  Zwiep,  head  of  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering, and  Prof.  Arthur  Gerstenfeld, 
immediate  past  head  of  Management,  two 
vital  programs  are  accomplishing  this. 

First,  MEAC— the  Manufacturing  Engi- 
neering Applications  Center— brings  spon- 
soring companies'  engineering  teams  onto 
campus  to  work  side-by-side  with  faculty, 
undergraduates  and  graduate  students. 
Here,  latest-generation  industrial-robotics 
technologies  are  applied  to  manufacturing 
and  processing  projects  initiated  by  the 
companies.  But  MEAC  doesn't  stop  there. 
Normally,  the  solutions  developed  on 
campus,  using  either  company  or  WPI  ro- 
bots, find  production-scale  applications 
back  in  the  companies'  plants. 

Says  Walter  L.  Abel,  '39  ME,  of 
Emhart  Corp.,  MEAC's  founding  sponsor, 


MAY  1984       7 


"We  can't  say  enough  about  this  program. 
Students  get  to  work  with  robotics  on  proj- 
ects that  not  only  reflect  real  industrial 
conditions,  but  are  real  industrial  prob- 
lems. And  MEAC  has  enabled  Emhart's 
robotics  program  to  move  rapidly  up  the 
learning  curve." 

Second,  the  center  for  the  Management 
of  Advanced  Automation  Technology 
(MA AT)  unites  industry  managers  and 
technical  personnel  with  faculty  and  stu- 
dents to  develop  better  ways  of  managing 
today's  high-technology  organizations. 

At  one  of  WPI's  older  research  facilities, 
Alden  Research  Laboratories  (ARL)  in 
nearby  Holden,  the  quality  of  the  staff  has 
never  been  stronger,  says  Bolz.  But  the 
character  of  ARL's  work  has  changed  dra- 
matically in  recent  years,  reflecting  both 
access  to  new  technologies  available  for 
hydraulics  and  fluid-mechanics  testing  and 
the  evolving  demand  for  this  kind  of  re- 
search. Today  computer  modeling  aug- 
ments the  more  cumbersome,  yet  still  es- 
sential and  also  visually  spectacular, 
large-scale  site  modeling  for  which  ARL  is 
so  widely  known. 

The  ranking  academic  officer  of  any 
college,  says  Ray  Bolz,  is  there, 
first,  to  motivate  the  faculty  and, 
second,  to  motivate  industry's  support  of 
the  school's  programs.  Looking  back, 
Bolz  recounts  a  mixed  record  in  both  areas. 
That  may  be  so  in  his  mind,  but  as 
we've  just  seen,  WPI  has  been  anything 
but  stagnant  in  the  last  decade  or  so.  And 
though  everyone,  from  the  president  to  the 
deans  to  the  faculty,  will  tell  you  there's 
never  enough  money,  WPI  has  distin- 
guished itself  quite  nicely,  thank  you,  con- 
sidering the  company  it  keeps.  Research 
grants  and  contracts  reached  $1.7  million 
in  1983,  up  from  $509,000  just  ten  years 
ago. 

Still,  Ray  Bolz  leaves  WPI  with  a  few 
frustrations  dogging  him:  isolated  cases 
where  faculty  members,  who  obviously 
are  very  talented,  have  refused  time  and 
again  to  go  that  extra  mile;  intense  compe- 
tition with  other  top  colleges  for  the  small 


A  New  Chapter 
Unfolds 

By  Dr.  Richard  H.  Gallagher 


Y\77T^T  is  the  leading  institution  in 
\  Y  /  W  I  the  United  States  in  the  inno- 

VV  A.  JLvation  of  undergraduate  en- 
gineering education.  A  great  deal  of  evi- 
dence has  established  that  the  Institute  has 
produced  graduates  capable  of  performing 
superbly  in  practice  and  in  society  at  large. 
These  impressive  accomplishments  have 
resulted  from  the  dedicated  efforts  of  the 
faculty  and  administration  who  have 
served  since  the  inception  of  the  WPI 
Plan.  I  am  honored  to  be  given  the  oppor- 
tunity to  contribute  to  these  achievements 
and  to  the  continuance  of  WPI  tradition. 

Many  challenges  lie  ahead.  The  excel- 
lence of  the  WPI  Plan  must  be  maintained. 
No  program  of  engineering  education, 
however  sound  it  might  be,  can  retain  its 
vitality  without  ever-present  attention  to 
the  quality  of  teaching  and  concern  for  stu- 
dent advising.  Equally  important  is  the  in- 
fusion of  concepts,  equipment  and  prac- 
tices that  are  rapidly  advancing.  To  look  at 
the  Plan  as  a  static  scheme  is  inconsistent 
with  the  philosophy  that  created  it. 
Changes  to  bring  about  improvements 
where  they  are  needed  will  have  to  be  de- 
vised and  implemented. 

I've  already  alluded  to  a  problem  shared 
by  all  engineering  programs,  that  of  infus- 
ing the  march  of  progress  into  the  educa- 
tional process.  No  other  profession  so  em- 
bodies change  as  does  engineering.  The 
model  for  responding  to  this  change  in- 
volves the  participation  of  the  faculty  in 
research  that  has  an  impact,  first  on  gradu- 
ate study  and  then  on  undergraduate 
education. 

The  importance  of  identifying  the  tal- 
ents of  an  institution  and  of  building  upon 
them  is  well  established.  However,  each 
strength  recognizes  special  capabilities  be- 
gun in  an  isolated  form  and  with  limited 
resources.  We  must  strive  toward  identify- 
ing new  faculty  and  encouraging  existing 
faculty  in  these  new  directions. 


The  recruitment  of  talented  faculty  who 
share  these  concerns  is  a  key  aspect  of  this 
issue.  In  turn,  the  Institute  must  represent 
an  attractive  environment  for  those  individ- 
uals to  develop  as  engineers  and  as  acade- 
micians. Because  of  the  way  WPI  has 
successfully  integrated  the  humanities,  sci- 
ence and  other  disciplines,  faculty  other 
than  engineers  need  to  have  the  same 
opportunities. 

Today,  more  than  ever,  engineering  edu- 
cation advances  in  unison  with  ongoing 
activities  in  industry,  government  and  re- 
search. For  WPI  this  collaboration  is  al- 
ready extensive,  due  in  large  measure  to 
the  off-campus  ties  developed  through  stu- 
dent projects.  We  need  to  expand  these 
relationships  even  further,  to  serve  the  pro- 
fessions on  the  one  side  and  also  to  en- 
courage support  of  projects,  graduate  re- 
search, and  the  acquisition  of  new 
equipment. 

The  response  of  the  Institute  to  the  ex- 
panding role  of  computers  in  higher  educa- 
tion is  another  major  issue.  The  steps  we 
take  to  develop  this  role  must  be  academi- 
cally sound,  consistent  with  the  function- 
ing of  the  engineering  professional  in  a 
career  that  will  span  many  years,  and  able 
to  strike  a  balance  between  the  rapid  obso- 
lescence of  equipment  and  the  cost  of  that 
equipment.  As  administrators,  we  are 
challenged  to  put  the  equipment  and  facili- 
ties in  place.  The  faculty  must  then  update 
courses  to  incorporate  effectively  these 
computational  advances. 

Dr.  Gallagher,  dean  of  the  College  of  En- 
gineering at  the  University  of  Arizona, 
Tucson,  will  succeed  Ray  Bolz  as  Vice 
President  and  Dean  of  the  Faculty  effec- 
tive July  1,  1984.  Professor  of  civil  and 
environmental  engineering  at  Cornell  Uni- 
versity for  11  years,  he  also  has  worked  at 
Bell  Aerosy stems  in  Buffalo,  NY,  and  was 
with  Texaco. 


8       WPI  JOURNAL 


group  of  young  faculty  candidates  he'd 
like  to  hire;  attracting  dollars  into  fledg- 
ling programs;  wrestling  with  the  best  way 
to  integrate  computers  into  higher 
education. 

Finally,  he  longs  for  a  return  to  the  kind 
of  faculty  thinking  that  created  the  WPI 
Plan.  "Back  in  the  late  '60s,  faculty 
thought  hard  about  teaching  and  learning." 
Today,  he  says,  WPI  and  its  kindred  insti- 
tutions need  more  of  this  innovative  think- 
ing. "We've  got  to  reconsider  how  we  can 
use  things  like  computers  and  television  to 
make  the  learning  process  more  effective, 
efficient  and,  most  importantly,  more  mo- 
tivating for  students." 

Yet  one  challenge,  he  believes,  will 
dominate  all  others  in  the  coming  decade. 
"WPI's  graduate  programs  simply  must  be 
developed  more  vigorously."  He  admits, 
though,  that  the  scenario  he  envisions  is  a 
chicken-and-egg  situation. 

"Typically,"  he  says,  "graduate  stu- 
dents in,  say,  chemistry  or  EE  are  attracted 
to  a  college  or  university  by  a  particular 
professor  whose  work  has  won  national 
recognition.  But  to  attract  and  keep  this 
caliber  of  faculty,  you  must  make  the  col- 
lege an  exciting  place  for  them  to  be.  And 
you've  got  to  be  able  to  meet  their  expec- 
tations for  laboratory  facilities,  salary,  re- 
lease time  for  research."  This  means  you 
need  money— lots  of  it— to  support  the 
level  of  talent  that  will  attract  students. 
"We've  made  considerable  progress,"  he 
adds,  "but  much  more  needs  to  be  done." 

A  major  component  of  this  equation- 
faculty  salaries— is  steadily  becoming 
competitive  on  a  national  scale,  Bolz  says. 
"We've  tried  to  reward  faculty  for  their 
efforts."  Low  faculty  attrition  reflects  this 
trend. 

Naturally,  as  cost  of  operations  rise,  tui- 
tion increases  follow.  And  in  an  era  of  a 
shrinking  college-age  population,  main- 
taining—indeed, enhancing— the  quality 
of  all  programs,  from  academics  to  hous- 
ing to  athletics,  becomes  all  the  more  criti- 
cal to  remaining  competitive.  "Parents," 
he  says,  "must  be  confident  that  a  WPI 
education  is  well  worth  the  cost." 


"At  most  colleges,  faculty 
members  often  try  to  build 
their  own  little  empires, 
treating  undergraduates 
as  a  necessary  inconvenience. 
WPI  is  different." 

And  what  about  the  WPI  Plan,  the  bold 
experiment  Ray  Bolz  was  brought  in 
L  to  help  conduct?  Few  would  argue 
with  the  concepts  validity,  he  asserts. 
"Student  projects,  curriculum  flexibility, 
intensive  work  in  the  humanities:  these  are 
the  elements  of  WPI  that  set  it  apart  from 
nearly  every  other  college." 

Yet  the  view  from  Boynton  Hall  has  en- 
abled him  to  form  a  clear  picture  of  where 
change  in  the  Plan  is  likely  to  occur.  "In 
some  ways,  as  we  learned  at  Case,  you 
can't  buck  the  outside  world."  Grading, 
for  one  thing— currently  recognizing  only 
distinguished,  acceptable  or  no  credit  per- 
formance—may well  return  to  the  tradi- 
tional A-B-C-no-credit  format,  he  pre- 
dicts. Prospective  employers  and  graduate 
schools,  he  says,  sometimes  can't  easily 
make  the  translation. 

Another  element  of  the  Plan,  the  compe- 
tency examination,  has  been  a  topic  of 
heated  discussion  on  campus  almost  from 
the  Plan's  inception  in  1972.  The  "comp," 
which  tests  seniors  in  an  intensive  two-day 
written  session,  places  tremendous  pres- 
sure both  on  students,  who  must  pass  it  to 
graduate,  and  the  faculty,  who  must  devise 
and  administer  the  exam.  "There's  got  to 
be  a  better  way  to  test  competency,"  he 
says.  He  points  to  an  idea  proposed  by 
Dean  of  Undergraduate  Studies  William 


Grogan  as  having  special  merit.  Under  this 
scheme,  rather  than  being  tested  by  as 
trauma-filled  comprehensive  exam,  stu- 
dents would  defend  the  projects  they've 
completed  in  oral  presentations  before  fac- 
ulty and  industrial  project  sponsors,  much 
as  doctoral  candidates  defend  their  disser- 
tations. "This  could  be  a  much  more 
meaningful  and  efficient  use  of  everyone's 
efforts,"  he  contends. 

Ray  Bolz  grew  up  in  the  Depression. 
The  son  of  a  machine  operator  from 
the  Shaker  Heights  section  of  Cleve- 
land, he  put  himself  through  Case  Institute 
of  Technology,  beginning  a  long  associa- 
tion with  that  institution.  He  graduated 
from  Yale  in  1942  with  an  MSME  and 
joined  the  National  Advisory  Committee 
on  Aeronautics  (NACA,  later  NASA), 
working  to  perfect  jet  engines.  He  later 
headed  NACA's  combustion  research  sec- 
tion in  Cleveland.  Following  WW  II,  he 
went  back  to  Yale  to  pursue  his  Ph.D., 
finishing  it  in  1949  while  teaching  aero- 
nautics at  RPI.  In  1950  he  returned  to 
Case,  there  to  climb  the  academic  ladder 
until  George  Hazzard  convinced  him  of 
the  opportunities  at  WPI. 

Now,  1 1  years  later,  Ray  Bolz  is  looking 
forward  to  the  freedom  that  retirement  will 
afford  him— more  times  to  pursue  other 
interests  he's  developed  over  the  years. 
"I'll  be  a  little  less  busy,"  he  admits,  but 
with  the  new  house  he  and  his  wife  Jean 
are  building  off  Salisbury  Street  in  Wor- 
cester, a  summer  cottage  on  a  pristine  lake 
in  Michigan,  four  daughters,  nine  grand- 
children, woodworking  learned  at  the 
Worcester  Craft  Center  (of  which  he's 
president)— well,  he's  hardly  slowing 
down.  And  he  may  well  find  himself  head- 
ing special  assignments  for  the  college,  ac- 
cording to  President  Edmund  T.  Cranch. 

"I  suppose  I'll  have  to  take  up  fishing 
now,"  he  confides.  One  of  his  grandsons  is 
at  the  age  where  soon  he'll  no  longer  be 
content  to  stand  at  the  end  of  the  dock  and 
watch  the  small  fish  take  his  bait.  "He'll 
want  to  be  out  in  a  boat  before  long,  look- 
ing for  bigger  catches."  Kids  are  like  that. 


MAY  1984 


HDH  ADVENTURE 
IN  A  BIG  STAKES  GAME 


You'd  think  that  the 
high-pressure  world 
of  foreign-currency 
exchange  would 
demand  a  B-school 
grad  at  the  reins. 
But  look  closer  at 
the  head  trader  for 
Merrill  Lynch. 

Story  and  Photos 

By  Kenneth  McDonnell 

Most  people  would  consider  the  setting 
glamorous,  maybe  even  exotic.  You 
enter  on  New  York  City's  lower  Broad- 
way, smack  in  the  middle  of  the  Wall 
Street  financial  district,  literally  in  the 
shadow  of  the  looming  twin  towers  of  the 
World  Trade  Center,  just  a  block  or  so 
from  the  bustling  New  York  Stock 
Exchange.  Though  no  cash  ever  comes  on 
the  premises,  you  need  a  special  combina- 
tion to  free  the  door  lock  and  enter  the 
suite  of  offices.  Strolling  the  long,  richly 
carpeted  and  detailed  15-foot-high  corri- 
dor, you  still  have  no  idea  of  what  is  in 
store. 

Suddenly,  turning  left  at  a  receptionist's 
desk,  you  are  there.  Through  a  thick  glass 
door  you  enter  a  setting  whose  mood 
seems  far  too  laid-back  for  the  gravity  of 
the  activity  going  on.  A  battery  of  20  cus- 
tom-built computer  consoles,  arranged  in  a 
huge  block  "C,"  an  overhead  news  display 
and  dozens  of  telephones  make  you  think 


James  Hohorst,  '76  CE,  in  the  foreign 
currency  trading  room  at  Merrill  Lynch. 

they  might  be  launching  spaceships  or 
some  such  from  here. 

One  wall  of  glass  looks  out  over  Broad- 
way, a  floor  below.  Everything— the  light- 
ing, the  upholstered  furniture,  the  potted 
plants— is  subdued.  The  people  here  are 
all  well-scrubbed  and  well-clothed,  and 
thus  carry  the  best  of  diplomas.  They  are 
intensely  busy  at  their  communications 
terminals,  yet  they  don't  appear  overly 
stressed.  No  hair-pulling.  No  chain-smok- 
ing. No  nail-biting. 

But  don't  be  fooled. 

The  game  that's  played  here  is  one  of  the 
riskiest  in  town.  Here,  in  the  foreign-cur- 
rency trading  room  of  Merrill,  Lynch, 
Pierce  Fenner  &  Smith  Inc.,  deals  worth 
hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars  pass  into 
and  then  out  of  the  hands  of  people  who 
are  mostly  in  their  late  20s  and  early  30s. 
Careers  can  be  made  or  wasted  on  split- 
second,  multimillion-dollar  decisions.  The 
place  buzzes.  Burnout  can  come  by  age 
40. 

In  the  midst  of  all  this  stands  a  tall,  slen- 
der 29-year-old.  Usually  he  is  inside  the 
"C,"   leaning  over  consoles,   consulting 


with  his  traders,  taking  calls  from  the  com- 
mercial banks,  corporations  and  wealthy 
individuals  who  are  Merrill  Lynch's  inter- 
national-currency customers.  His  calm, 
collected,  easygoing  demeanor,  just  the 
opposite  of  what  you'd  expect  in  this  pres- 
sure-cooker environment,  sets  the  tone. 
James  Hohorst,  '76,  is  clearly  in  charge. 

Jim  Hohorst  came  to  Merrill  Lynch 
(ML)  in  1981,  after  the  financial- 
managment  giant  lured  him  away  from 
Citibank  to  build  up  its  young  foreign-cur- 
rency department.  He'd  spent  a  few  years 
in  Greece  and  London  with  Citibank  be- 
fore taking  over  at  ML. 

Hohorst  studied  civil  engineering  at 
WPI,  but  he  never  practiced  it.  His  dem- 
onstrated abilities  in  logical  yet  creative 
thinking  convinced  steady  old  ML  to  re- 
conceive  the  entire  set-up  of  its  trading 
room.  "I'm  probably  best  at  planning,"  he 
says,  "and  lousy  at  anything  routine." 

Where  desks  were  formerly  lined  up 
matrix  style,  piled  high  with  video 
screens,  he  argued  for  a  plan  with  consoles 
low  enough  so  that  every  trader  could 
make  eye  contact  with  nearly  every  other 
trader  in  the  room.  Where  before  traders 
had  yelled  out  their  transactions  to  a  clerk, 
he  fought  for  direct  input  by  all  traders  into 
their  own  on-line  computers. 

And  when  resistance  to  such  a  set-up 
was  heard  from  old-style  traders,  he  con- 
vinced them  to  try  it.  They've  loved  it. 
Says  one,  "This  whole  arrangement— the 
computers,  programs,  worldwide  instanta- 
neous communications,  even  the  chairs- 
was  Jim's  doing.  This  place  is  like  no 
other  in  the  business." 

"I've  tried  to  set  up  this  operation  to 
work  with  or  without  me  in  town,"  says 
Hohorst,  "so  it  can  remain  profitable  even 
in  my  absence.  The  flow  of  currency  or- 
ders is  the  key."  For  ML,  the  billion-dollar 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


77?  is  is  no  trading  pit.  "It 's  more  like  controlled  frenzy,"  says  Hohorst. 


payoff  has  been  nothing  to  cough  at,  but 
it's  still  in  its  infancy. 

Trading  in  foreign  currency,  Hohorst  ex- 
plains, is  complex  but  essentially  little  dif- 
ferent from  buying  and  selling  other 
things.  The  stakes,  though,  can  be  enor- 
mous: $5-million  transactions  are  ex- 
pressed here  as  $5.  "I  try  to  get  my  trad- 
ers," he  says,  "not  to  be  intimidated  by  the 
sums  of  money  they  handle." 

ML  deals  in  only  four  currencies:  the 
British  pound  sterling,  Japanese  yen, 
Swiss  franc  and  West  German  mark.  Cus- 
tomers' objectives  are  as  diverse  as  their 
nationalities.  A  German  auto-maker,  for 
instance,  may  need  to  convert  funds  it 
earns  in  U.S.  dollars  to  marks  in  order  to 
pay  employees  and  suppliers  for  cars  built 
in  Germany.  Another  company,  this  one 
American-based,  may  want  to  buy  a  Japa- 
nese company.  Or,  a  German  individual 
may  be  selling  machine  parts  to  a  French 
customer.  In  each  case,  currencies  must  be 


converted,  and  to  do  so,  parties  come  to 
investment  firms  or  commercial  banks. 

"The  market  is  so  volatile,"  says 
Hohorst,  "that  we  use  four  digits  to  the 
right  of  the  decimal  point  for  the  amounts 
we  deal  with."  Positions  are  held  for  as 
little  as  a  couple  of  hours.  "A  long-term 
position  is  usually  a  week,"  he  adds. 

Hohorst's  operation  is  part  of  Merrill 
Lynch  International  Bank.  His  and  similar 
arrangements  at  other  major  investment 
firms  are  rapidly  luring  customers  away 
from  commercial  banks,  who  traditionally 
have  set  the  pace  in  services  offered  in  the 
foreign-currency  exchange  market.  Says 
one  trader,  "Commercial  banks'  decision- 
making is  more  laborious.  Here,  we  ac- 
cept risk  as  a  way  of  life." 

ML  and  others  are  raising  the  curtain  on 
all  sorts  of  new  services,  such  as  borrow- 
ing in  the  U.S.  commercial  paper  market, 
then  swapping  the  dollars  in  a  short-term 
currency  transaction,  instead  of  borrowing 


771?  mood  is  intense  yet  relaxed  under  Hohorst 's  lead.  He  designed  the  entire  office, 
specified  the  computer  hardware  and  even  wrote  the  programs. 


in  a  foreign  currency;  or  writing  contracts 
for  clients  who  don't  have  credit  lines  at  a 
bank  and  want  to  do  foreign  exchange  on  a 
margin  basis.  "If  a  customer  can  give  us  a 
$5-million  deposit,"  says  Hohorst,  "we'll 
give  him  a  $50-million  foreign-exchange 
line."  No  wonder  the  banks  are  frustrated 
by  the  investment  firms,  themselves 
steady  customers  of  the  commercials. 

Another  suprise  about  Hohorst's  trading 
room:  You'd  think  it  would  be  popu- 
lated by  business-school  types,  with  the 
kind  of  derring-do  that  characterizes  so 
many  MBAs. 

Derring-do?  Yes.  MBAs?  A  few.  In 
fact,  says  Hohorst,  "one  of  the  people  I've 
hired  has  an  advanced  degree  in  medieval 
French  literature."  And  in  February,  he 
hired  Brian  Wasko,  of  Mountainside,  NJ, 
a  graduate  student  in  chemical  engineering 
at  WPI.  Says  Wasko,  "I've  always  been 
fascinated  with  finance,  and  this  seems 
like  an  ideal  place  to  get  my  feet  wet." 
He's  now  training  alongside  a  more  expe- 
rienced trader. 

"This  is  a  business  of  wheeling  and 
dealing  and  outguessing  the  market,"  says 
Hohorst.  "Whether  it's  knowledge,  intui- 
tion or  luck  that  makes  us  successful,  I 
don't  care.  I  hire  people  on  those  bases, 
too.  Like  trading,  I  win  some  and  I  lose 
some.  It's  our  position  in  the  longer  term 
that  I  watch."  He  adds,  "You  have  to  love 
this  business.  But  it  can  consume  you  even 
if  you  do." 

Jim  Hohorst  strikes  you  as  the  kind  of 
person  who'll  be  great  at  whatever  he 
does.  At  the  top  of  his  profession  already, 
you  wonder  what  he'll  do  next. 

"Real-estate  development  has  always 
interested  me.  I  think  I'd  enjoy  that." 
Time  spent  in  London  and  Europe  showed 
him  how  totally  unexploited  at  least  one 
part  of  many  cities  is— the  waterfront.  Eu- 
ropean cities,  he  observes,  have  done 
wonders  with  their  old  wharves  and  water- 
front areas,  converting  them  into  town- 
houses,  shops,  parks.  "Most  U.S.  water- 
fronts are  rotting,"  he  complains.  "If  I  had 
the  capital,  I'd  think  about  renovating 
right  here  in  New  York  or  Hoboken." 

Jim  Hohorst  thrives  on  getting  involved 
in  lots  of  aspects  of  his  business— not  just 
running  things,  but  designing  necessary 
technology  and  furniture,  writing  com- 
puter programs,  hiring  and  developing 
staff.  "I  really  think  WPI  had  a  lot  to  do 
with  this,"  he  says.  "WPI  taught  us  how  to 
solve  problems,  not  how  to  memorize  for- 
mulae or  take  tests.  There's  a  world  of 
difference." 


MAY  1984       11 


INVESTING  IN  THE 

FUTURE 


At  almost  $57  million,  WPFs  endowment  is  at  an  all-time  high. 

Two  of 

our  money  men  tell 

their  secrets  of  success. 


According  to  a  1982-83  survey  of  60 
ZA  private-college  endowment  funds 
xkbetween  $25  and  $100  million, 
WPI's  performance  ranked  in  the  fourth 
quartile.  Our  ten-year  average  total  return 
was  10  percent  compared  with  the  Dow 
Jones  30  Industrials  (DJI)  average  of  8.7 
percent.  And  on  a  five-year  basis,  WPI 
ranked  in  the  upper  third  with  a  15.5  per- 
cent average  total  return,  compared  with 
the  Dow's  14.8  percent. 

How  has  the  college  gone  about  achiev- 
ing this  level  of  performance,  we  won- 
dered. Annual  reports  don't  always  get  to 
the  heart  of  the  matter.  So,  for  answers, 
we  visited  with  two  of  the  people  most 
familiar  with  WPI's  investments,  David 
Lloyd,  Vice  President  for  Business  Affairs 
and  Treasurer;  and  John  Hossack,  '46, 
chairman  of  the  Trustees  Finance  and  In- 
vestment Committee  (TFIC)  and  Vice 
President,  American  Appraisal  Corp., 
New  York  City. 

We'd  like  to  share  their  perspectives 
with  you. 

What  are  the  roles  of  the  TFIC  and  the 
chief  financial  officer  of  the  college? 
Mr.  Hossack:  Basically,  the  TFIC  es- 
tablishes investment  policy  and  oversees 
the  implementation  of  that  policy  by  the 
financial  management  firms  the  college 
retains.  The  committee  sets  guidelines  for 
the  financial  performance  it  hopes  to 
achieve,  then  periodically  reports  these 
results  to  the  Board  and  the  college. 

Since  1976,  60  percent  of  the  endow- 
ment has  been  managed  by  a  "money 
manager."  This  firm  has  generated  an  av- 
erage total  return  of  44.6  percent  in  that 
period,  compared  with  the  DJI  average  of 
15.2  percent.  And  over  five  years,  these 
performances  have  been  53.4  and  49.2 
percent,  respectively. 

The  balance  of  the  endowment  (40  per- 
cent) is  managed  by  a  bond  manager  and 
internally  by  the  college.  This  portion  is 
invested  in  short-term  securities.  The  in- 


vestment goal  for  this  piece  of  the  endow- 
ment is  to  obtain  a  maximum,  prudent 
flow  of  investment  income. 
Mr.  Lloyd:  The  TFIC  is  cognizant  of 
the  cash  flow  requirements  of  the  college 
operating  budget  and  works  to  maintain 
the  purchasing  power  of  the  endowment, 
that  is,  protecting  it  from  the  erosion  of 
inflation. 

What  are  the  trends  in  WPI's  endowment 
growth  ? 

Mr.  Lloyd:  In  the  past  eight  years,  the 
college  has  averaged  a  16-percent  total  re- 
turn on  its  investment.  This  compares  with 
a  Dow  Jones  average  of  1 1  percent  and  a 
Standard  &  Poor's  500  average  of  13.3 
percent.  Fiscal  year  1981-82  was  an  espe- 
cially good  period,  as  we  found  ourselves 
in  the  upper  10  percent  of  the  National 
Association  of  College  and  University 
Business  Officers  (NACUBO)  survey  of 
200  private  college  endowments.  In  1982- 
83,  however,  our  performance  dropped  to 
about  the  middle  in  the  survey,  due  largely 
to  the  volatility  of  the  financial  markets. 


During  this  period,  the  college  felt  it  most 
prudent  to  invest  in  high-yield  investments 
and  to  take  advantage  of  capital  gains  in 
solid,  well-managed  companies. 
Mr.  Hossack:  At  the  present  time,  as  the 
market  climbs  slowly,  we're  looking  to 
lock  into  secure  yet  longer-term  invest- 
ments. And  though  inflation  is  down  con- 
siderably from  its  level  of  the  past  several 
years,  we're  still  working  hard  to  preserve 
the  endowment's  purchasing  power. 
Mr.  Lloyd:  A  vital  element  of  how  we 
manage  WPI's  assets  is  the  school's  enroll- 
ment targets.  For  at  least  the  next  few 
years,  WPI  intends  to  maintain  enrollment 
at  2,400  to  2,500  undergraduate  students. 
To  continue  providing  the  present  educa- 
tional quality,  we  need  to  keep  adding 
new,  more  advanced  laboratory  equip- 
ment, computers  and  dormitories.  But  be- 
yond normal  tuition  increases  that  keep 
pace  with  inflation  in  operating  expenses, 
a  stable  enrollment  means  that  tuition  can't 
contribute  very  much  toward  purchasing 
those  necessary  capital  improvements. 
Therefore,  we  have  to  be  even  more  effec- 
tive in  controlling  operating  costs.  We  also 
have  to  seek  more  gifts  to  the  college — like 
cash,  hardware  and  research  grants.  More 
students  would  bring  in  more  income,  cer- 
tainly, but  we  feel  such  a  shift  would  cause 
unwanted  crowding,  as  well  as  compro- 
mise the  quality  of  WPI's  educational  pro- 
grams. 

How  has  the  college  been  able  to  achieve 
such  outstanding  financial  performance  ? 
Mr.  Hossack:  We've  simply  been  fortu- 
nate in  selecting  excellent  money  man- 
agers. A  key  part  of  these  relationships  is 
the  flexibility  we  give  these  firms  in  man- 
aging the  college  assets.  But  there's  noth- 
ing unique  about  their  philosophy.  They 
have  a  great  deal  of  discretion  in  working 
to  meet  the  investment  objectives  set  down 
for  them.  Fortunately,  they  are  highly  at- 
tuned to  the  workings  of  the  stock  and 
bond  markets.  Currently,  our  investments 


12       WPI  JOURNAL 


John  E.  Hossack,  '46  ME,  chairman  of 
the  Trustee  Investment  Committee. 

are  divided  about  evenly  between  these 
two  kinds  of  investments. 

What  are  WPI's  basic  financial  objec- 
tives? 

Mr.  Lloyd:  Although  most  colleges 
would  consider  it  high,  one  element  of 
WPI's  endowment  investment  strategy  is 
to  produce  a  6-percent  pay-out  to  opera- 
tions, based  on  a  two-year  average  of  the 
endowment's  market  value.  Our  goal  is  for 
the  total  return  to  meet  or  exceed  this  6- 
percent  pay-out  plus  the  consumer  price 
index  (CPI)  rate  of  change.  We  insist  that 
our  money  managers  perform  at  this  level. 
Mr.  Hossack:  We  try  to  keep  our  objec- 
tives simple,  avoiding  trendy  moves.  We 
just  try  to  place  WPI's  assets  in  markets 
that  are  liquid  and  offer  a  fair  chance  to 
realize  the  returns  we  need. 

How  were  these  money  management 
firms  selected? 

Mr.  Hossack:  Probably  in  much  the 
same  way  that  individuals  select  banks, 
mutual  funds,  money-market  funds  or  other 
financial  management  companies:  reputa- 
tion and  word-of-mouth.  Of  the  dozens  we 
know  about,  we  sat  down  as  a  committee 
and  weeded  out  the  three  or  four  we  wanted 
to  interview.  When  we  met  with  these 
firms,  we  examined  their  track  records  and 
assessed  how  well  they  conduct  their  own 
research.  We  also  got  an  idea  of  how  indi- 
viduals in  the  firm  impressed  us.  After  all, 
it's  people  in  whom  we  place  our  trust  for 
managing  the  assets  of  the  college.  We  then 
monitor  the  performance  of  the  firms.  If 
our  expectations  are  met  overtime,  we  nor- 
mally see  no  reason  to  jump  ship.  Cur- 
rently, we  retain  two  money  management 
groups:  one  locally  and  the  other  a  national 
concern.  In  addition,  as  we've  said,  a  small 
portion  of  the  investment  decisions  are 
made  internally. 

Does  the  college  invest  in  real  estate,  or  in 


options  or  other  higher-risk  instruments? 
Mr.  Lloyd:  Naturally,  the  campus  is  by 
far  our  largest  real-estate  investment,  with 
its  current  value  estimated  at  more  than 
$100  million.  The  college  also  holds  the 
mortgages  on  several  fraternity  houses. 
But  beyond  that,  WPI  is  not  in  the  market 
for  public  real  estate.  It's  usually  not  liquid 
enough  for  the  flexibility  our  investment 
strategy  demands.  The  one  exception  is 
when  we  need  properties  adjacent  to  the 
campus  for  expansion.  This  occurred 
south  of  Institute  Road,  when  we  built  the 
Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residence  complexes, 
and  in  the  Boynton  St. -Dean  St.  neighbor- 
hood,where  Residence  Hall  6  will  be  built. 
Mr.  Hossack:  As  far  as  the  options  mar- 
ket is  concerned,  we  tried  this  route  in  the 
early  1970s,  but  got  nowhere  with  it.  Cur- 
rently, we  avoid  options.  They're  too  vol- 
atile. You  might  consider  things  like  stock 
options  and  commodities  for  your  own  in- 
vestments, but  not  for  WPI's. 

What  are  the  key  challenges  in  managing 
cashflow  and  operating  budgets? 
Mr.  Lloyd:  Once  again,  maintaining  the 
flexibility  we  need  to  enable  us  to  seize 
opportunities  in  the  stock  and  bond  mar- 
kets is  vital.  We  don't  like  to  get  locked 
into  one  investment  formula  that  can't  ac- 
commodate this  need.  In  addition,  of 
course,  we  need  cash  to  run  the  day-to-day 
operations  of  the  college.  That  goes  with- 
out saying  for  all  colleges.  Flexibility  en- 
ables us  to  know  right  where  our  net 
worth— translated  into  cash  terms— is  at  all 
times. 

Mr.  Hossack:  We  attempt  to  maintain 
what  we  believe  to  be  ideal  cash  balances 
to  meet  operating  costs  without  going  to 
outside  financing  sources  or  invading  the 
endowment's  principle.  An  exception  is 
outside  financing  from  direct  revenue-gen- 
erated sources  such  as  dormitories. 

Where  does  WPI's  income  come  from? 
Mr.  Lloyd:  It  comes  from  a  number  of 
sources:  Tuition  and  fees,  72  percent;  en- 
dowment pay-out,  7  percent;  annual  giv- 
ing, 3.1  percent;  sponsored  research  and 
other  educational  operations,  15.2  per- 
cent; auxiliary  operations,  1.7  percent; 
and  miscellaneous  sources,  1  percent. 

How  does  the  college  fund  construction 
of  revenue-generating  facilities,  such  as 
residence  halls,  compared  with  academic 
and  athletic  facilities  ? 
Mr.  Lloyd:  Typically,  we  sell  term 
bonds  to  finance  new  dormitory  construc- 
tion. Residence  Hall  6,  for  example,  to  be 
completed  in  September  1985,  will  be  fi- 


David  E.  Lloyd,  Vice  President  for  Busi- 
ness Affairs  and  Treasurer. 

nanced  mostly  through  a  15-year  tax-ex- 
empt bond  issue  through  the  Massachu- 
setts Health  &  Education  Facilities 
Authority  (HEFA).  The  income  from  that 
facility— room  and  board— will  largely  pay 
off  the  debt.  Overall,  WPI's  credit  rating  is 
excellent.  Academic  and  athletic  facilities, 
on  the  other  hand,  are  usually  financed 
through  capital  campaigns,  as  was  the  case 
with  the  renovation  of  Atwater  Kent  and 
Washburn  Shops,  as  well  as  from  other 
gifts  and  grants. 

How  is  student  financial  aid  funded? 
Mr.  Lloyd:  From  an  accounting  stand- 
point, we  treat  financial  aid  as  a  separate 
revenue/expenditure  cost  center.  Student 
aid  is  derived  from  a  host  of  sources:  fed- 
eral and  state  grants,  corporate,  individual 
and  private  grants,  income  from  endowed 
student  aid,  and  allocations  from  the  oper- 
ating budget.  Loan  funds  are  available 
through  the  National  Direct  Student  Loan 
Fund,  WPI  loan  funds  and  federal  loans. 
For  the  first  time  this  year,  loans  are  avail- 
able through  the  Massachusetts  College 
Student  Loan  Authority. 

In  1982-83,  57  percent  of  WPI  students 
received  financial  aid,  totaling  nearly  $4.4 
million,  in  the  form  of  scholarships,  loans 
or  work-study  employment.  In  the  current 
academic  year,  the  amount  will  be  about 
$6.9  million. 

In  addition  to  these  conventional  forms 
of  aid,  deferred  tuition  payments  are  be- 
coming widely  popular.  These  are  similar 
to  fuel-oil  budget  plans,  where  the  family 
of  a  student,  for  example,  pays  a  fixed 
amount  every  month  of  the  year  to  a  finan- 
cial institution,  which  holds  the  accumu- 
lating balance  in  an  interest-bearing  ac- 
count until  the  student's  college  tuition  is 
due.  It's  amazing  just  how  creative  the  pri- 
vate sector  can  become  when  government 
programs  are  level-funded  or  monies  are 
re-allocated  to  other  priorities,  as  appears 
to  be  happening. 


MAY  1984       13 


To  Capture  a  Cloud 

Four  WPI  students  spent  seven  weeks  with  their  heads  in  the  clouds. 
They  came  away  with  a  new  device  for  measuring  the  acid  content  of 

clouds — and  a  grant  for  $10,000. 


By  Michael  Shanley 

The  Appalachian  Mountain  Club 
(AMC)  had  a  problem,  a  problem  as 
big  as  Mt.  Washington  itself. 
The  oldest  mountain  club  in  America 
wanted  to  find  out  if  not  just  acid  rain,  but 
acid  clouds  were  contaminating  the  fragile 
alpine  environment  of  New  Hampshire's 
White  Mountains.  To  gather  information, 
AMC  Research  Director  Dr.  Kenneth 
Kimball  had  been  testing  cloud-water  col- 
lectors near  the  top  of  6,288-ft.  Mt.  Wash- 
ington, the  highest  point  in  New  England. 
Since  the  upper  reaches  of  the  mountain 
are  in  the  clouds  some  300  days  a  year,  the 
alpine  vegetation  gets  a  significant  amount 
of  its  water  from  clouds  that  brush  up 
against  the  mountain.  It  seemed  the  perfect 
spot  to  examine  the  possibility  of  "acid 
cloud"  contamination. 


But  there  were  a  few  problems: 

•  Like  the  fact  that  winds  frequently 
whip  across  the  mountain  at  60  or  70 
mph,  with  gusts  up  to  150  mph  or  more. 
(It  was  atop  Mt.  Washington,  in  fact,  that 
the  world's  highest  recorded  wind 
speed— 231  mph— was  measured  in  April 
1934.)  Any  cloud  collector  would  have 
to  be,  first  and  foremost,  of  unshakable 
design. 

•  Like  the  fact  that,  atop  Mt.  Washing- 
ton, these  winds  change  direction  capri- 
ciously. Any  instrument,  therefore,  would 
have  to  be  "omni-directional"—  capable  of 
collecting  cloud  water  from  any  angle. 

•  Like  the  fact  that  the  site  chosen  as 
best  by  the  AMC  was  four  miles— and 
4,000  feet  up— from  the  nearest  road,  put- 
ting a  limit  on  the  overall  size  and  weight 
of  the  collector. 


•  Like  the  fact  that,  because  of  its  dis- 
tance from  civilization,  the  collector 
would  have  to  operate  without  continual 
supervision. 

•  Perhaps  most  important,  the  collector 
had  to  be  able  to  keep  rain  from  contami- 
nating the  cloud  samples. 

•  Add  to  this  the  simple  fact  that  the 
AMC  does  not  have  the  funds  of  a  General 
Motors;  in  other  words,  the  project's  bud- 
get would  not  support  high-tech  hardware. 

It  would,  however,  support  a  creative, 
down-to-earth  approach  to  the  problem. 
Here's  how  the  story  unfolded. 

In  the  summer  of  1981,  the  AMC,  in 
cooperation  with  acid-rain  research  pio- 
neers Dr.  Gene  E.  Likens  of  Cornell 
University  and  Dr.  F.  Herbert  Bormann, 
director  of  ecosystem  research  at  Yale 


On-site  (above),  between  cloud  "events,"  the  collector  will  measure  acidity  in  alpine  re- 
gions besides  Mt.  Washington.  With  their  heads  in  the  clouds  (opposite ,  from  left): 
Andrew  Cott,  Reynold  Dobson,  Bruce  Daube  and  Peter  Lamar. 


University,  began  its  research  on  the  acid 
content  of  cloud  water.  Their  base  of  oper- 
ations was  the  AMC's  mountain  activity 
headquarters  at  Pinkham  Notch  Camp, 
near  the  foot  of  Mt.  Washington. 

Cloud-water  collectors  were  set  up  at 
two  White  Mountain  locations:  at  Green- 
leaf  Hut  on  Mt.  Lafayette  and  at  Lakes  of 
the  Clouds  Hut,  located  in  a  col,  or  pass, 
between  Mt.  Washington  and  Mt.  Mon- 
roe. 

There  were  problems  almost  immedi- 
ately. The  collectors  the  AMC  was  using 
simply  weren't  working  properly. 

The  procedure  had  been  to  take  samples 
once  a  week.  But  if  the  weather  for  the 
previous  week  had  been  consistently 
cloudy  and  windy,  the  500-ml  collection 
bottles  overflowed.  On  the  other  hand,  if 
the  weather  had  been  dry  and  windy,  the 
strands  collected  dry  deposition— bugs, 
dust  and  other  debris— which  would  mod- 
ify the  samples'  chemistry.  Finally,  since 
samples  were  collected  just  once  a  week, 
only  the  average  chemistry  of  an  entire 
week's  worth  of  weather  conditions  could 
be  determined. 

These  problems  plagued  the  project  all 
that  summer  and  the  next. 

In  1983,  Dr.  Kenneth  Kimball,  a  36- 
year-old  biologist,  joined  the  AMC  as  re- 
search director  at  Pinkham  Notch.  "It  was 
obvious  there  were  some  real  problems 
with  the  collection  system,"  he  says. 
"Some  changes  had  to  be  made." 

Kimball  decided  to  alter  the  sampling 
technique.  With  support  from  the  Wey- 
erhauser  Foundation,  a  new  AMC  pro- 
gram was  set  up  using  "event"— rather 
than  weekly— samples.  The  collectors 
would  be  readied  before  each  impending 
"cloud  storm,"  and  emptied  immediately 
after.  Because  the  collectors  would  now 
require  increased  attention,  the  Mt.  Lafay- 


ette site  was  abandoned  and  both  collec- 
tors were  set  up  at  Lakes  of  the  Clouds. 

But  again,  major  problems  surfaced.  Be- 
cause of  high  wind  speeds,  rain  falling  on 
Mt.  Washington  can  travel  almost  hor- 
izontally—so when  the  weather  was 
cloudy  and  rainy,  the  cloud-water  samples 
were  contaminated  by  rainwater. 

To  alleviate  the  problem,  a  small  roof 
was  built  over  each  collector.  But  rain  still 
blew  under  the  roof  and  into  the  collector. 
What's  more,  the  roofs  themselves  ulti- 
mately snapped  off  like  matchsticks.  One 
was  later  found  on  an  altogether  different 
mountain. 

The  next  idea  was  simply  to  disconnect 
the  collector  when  it  was  raining,  then  re- 
connect it  later.  But  this  meant  the  collec- 
tor required  almost  constant  attention. 
Also,  even  when  the  collector  was  discon- 
nected, residual  rainwater  gathered  on  the 
strands,  thus  raising  the  threat  of  contami- 
nation. Finally,  it  meant  that  no  cloud- 
water  samples  could  be  taken  during  a 
rainstorm.  But  this,  too,  was  unaccept- 
able, since  one  of  the  things  the  AMC 
wanted  to  determine  was  whether  the  acid 
content  of  cloud  water  changed  during  a 
rain-storm. 

"Again,  we  had  problems,"  says  Kim- 
ball. But  rather  than  being  discouraged  by 
the  setbacks,  he  was  spurred  on.  "It  was  a 
challenge,  and  that's  what  science  is  all 
about." 

About  this  time,  two  mechanical  engi- 
neering majors  at  WPI,  senior  Bruce 
Daube,  from  Weatogue,  CT,  and  junior 
Peter  Lamar,  from  Exeter,  NH,  ap- 
proached chemical-engineering  professor 
Robert  Wagner,  an  avid  mountaineer  and 
past  vice  president  of  the  AMC  The  stu- 
dents, outdoorsmen  themselves,  wondered 
if  Wagner,  who  in  the  past  had  overseen  a 
number  of  Interactive  Qualifying  Projects 


(IQPs)  with  the  AMC,  could  arrange  a 
project  that  would  accommodate  both  their 
intellectual  curiosity  and  their  love  of  the 
outdoors. 

Wagner  said  he'd  see  what  he  could  do. 

"I  hadn't  met  Ken  Kimball,"  recalls 
Wagner,  who  has  climbed  63  peaks  in 
New  England,  often  in  winter,  as  well  as 
mountains  in  the  Austrian  Alps  and  the 
Rockies.  "But  in  the  past  we  had  had  some 
good  projects  with  Ken's  predecessor." 

By  now  Daube  and  Lamar  had  hooked 
up  with  Reynold  Dodson,  from  Gales 
Ferry,  CT,  and  Andrew  Cott,  from 
Nashua,  NH,  two  junior  electrical-engi- 
neering majors  searching  for  a  similar 
project.  Phone  calls  went  back  and  forth, 
until,  finally,  an  assignment  became 
clear— the  students  would  try  to  design  a 
new  collector  that  would  require  consider- 
ably less  attention  and  eliminate  the  prob- 
lem of  rain  contamination. 

It  was  decided  that  the  project  team 
would  spend  an  entire  seven-week  term  at 
the  AMC  headquarters  at  Pinkham  Notch. 
(In  addition  to  covering  most  equipment 
costs,  the  AMC  would  provide  the  stu- 
dents with  room  and  board.)  A  good  deal 
of  those  seven  weeks  would  be  spent  at 
Lakes  of  the  Clouds  Hut. 

The  "hut"  at  Lakes  of  the  Clouds  is 
really  a  bunkhouse,  which  during 
the  summer  months  offers  accom- 
modations for  up  to  90  hikers  who  prefer 
to  temper  their  treks  with  some  of  the 
amenities  of  civilization. 

If  the  sky  is  clear,  you  can  step  out  of  the 
hut  onto  the  rockhewn  landscape  and  gaze 
out  across  upward  of  a  hundred  miles  of 
New  Hampshire  countryside.  From  up 
there,  the  land  looks  strangely  uninhab- 
ited—even untouched— and  you  can  forget 
for  a  minute  about  things  like  crumbling 
factories  and  belching  smokestacks. 

But  in  the  Midwest,  in  places  like  Ohio 
and  Michigan,  these  things  are  not  so  easy 
to  forget.  And,  according  to  most  experts, 
that's  where  the  acid  rain  that  reaches  the 
Northeast  comes  from.  The  Midwest, 
these  experts  say,  is  exporting  its  pollution 
to  places  like  the  White  Mountains.  Sul- 
phur-dioxide emissions  from  factories,  re- 
fineries and  power  plants  are  produced  in 
the  Midwest,  travel  hundreds  of  miles 
with  the  wind,  and  fall  as  acid  snow  and 
rain  on  the  lakes,  streams,  farms  and  for- 
ests of  the  northeastern  United  States  and 
Canada. 

How  bad  is  the  problem?  "Normal" 
rain,  which  is  slightly  acidic,  registers  5.6 
on  the  pH  scale.  (A  perfectly  neutral  sub- 
stance rates  a  7.0.)  The  acidity  of  New 


MAY  1984       15 


England's  rainfall,  says  the  Environmental 
Protection  Agency,  is  about  pH  4.5.  Since 
a  change  of  1  on  the  pH  scale  is  a  tenfold 
change,  that  means  the  rain  in  New  En- 
gland is  at  least  ten  times  more  acidic  than 
it  should  be. 

But  what  about  the  clouds,  the  clouds 
that  are  so  much  a  part  of  the  high-altitude 
environment?  How  acidic  are  they?  won- 
der people  like  Gene  Likens,  Ken  Kimball 
and  Bob  Wagner. 

W'hen  the  four  students  arrived  at 
Lakes  of  the  Clouds  Hut  in  the 
beginning  of  last  September  with 
their  newly  built  cloud  collector,  the  last  of 
the  summer  hikers  were  enjoying  the  wan- 
ing days  of  warm  weather. 

The  collector  the  students  had  hauled  up 
to  the  hut  was  radically  different  from  any 
that  went  before  it.  While  other  models 
were  upright  cylinders,  the  WPI  collector 
was  a  3-foot-long  rectangular  box  made  of 
Vs-inch-thick  plexiglass.  It  weighed  about 
40  pounds,  not  including  the  sturdy 
wooden  base  on  which  it  was  to  stand.  The 
entire  contraption  weighed  nearly  100 
pounds. 

"It  was  quite  an  experience  getting  it  up 
the  mountain,"  grins  Lamar.  "It  was  about 
four  miles  and  straight  up  all  the  way." 

The  crucial  difference  between  the  WPI 
collector  and  its  predecessors  was  in  the 
deceptively  simple-looking  arrangement 
of  baffles  at  the  front  of  the  plexiglass  box 
(see  sidebar). 

"All  along,  we  knew  that  our  collector 
had  to  separate  the  large  raindrops  from 
the  tiny  cloud  droplets,"  Daube  adds. 
"That  was  the  most  important  thing." 

Easier  said  than  done,  especially  when 
100-mph  winds  are  thrust  into  the  equa- 
tion. But  the  students  had  spent  a  good 
part  of  the  summer  researching  the  project 
and  mulling  over  design  possibilities. 
When  the  four  reached  the  hut  with  their 
collector  that  September  day,  the  toughest 
work  was  already  behind  them. 

The  project  actually  began  the  previous 
May  when  Kimball  invited  the  team  up  to 
Pinkham  Notch  for  a  preliminary  meeting. 
A  rough  time-frame  was  set  up.  In  August, 
after  a  summer  of  background  work,  the 
four  spent  a  weekend  at  the  hut  and  ob- 
served the  two  AMC  collectors. 

"They  were  good  at  collecting  cloud- 
water  samples,"  says  Cott,  "but  weren't 
designed  to  keep  out  the  rain." 

Ultimately,  a  design  idea  was  presented, 
trial-and-error  revisions  were  undertaken, 
and  the  final  details  were  worked  out.  In 
late  August,  just  before  school  was  to  be- 
gin, the  project  team  met  at  WPI.  "The 


Basically,  a  collector  works  like  this:  a 
cloud  (a)  is  forced,  either  by  the  wind 
(in  the  case  of  a  passive  model)  or  by  a 
fan  (in  the  case  of  an  active  model)  to 
pass  through  a  number  of  Teflon 
strands  (b)  housed  within  the  collector's 
plexiglass  shell  (c).  In  turn,  the  tiny 
cloud  droplets  that  are  forced  through 
the  collector  attach  themselves  to  the 
strands.  When  the  droplets  grow  large 


enough,  they  run  down  the  strands, 
through  a  funnel  (d)  and  into  a  plastic 
collection  bottle. 

The  WPI  model  is  distinguished  by  its 
plexiglass  construction  and  its  rectangu- 
lar shape.  The  lipped  baffles  (e)  that 
separate  rain  particles  from  cloud  par- 
ticles are  a  major  innovation,  the  prod- 
uct of  many  hours  of  computer  model- 
ing and  actual  testing. 


collector  itself  we  built  in  a  week,"  says 
Daube. 

To  determine  the  position  and  arrange- 
ment of  the  baffles,  a  dizzying  array  of 
laws,  formulae  and  environmental  condi- 
tions had  to  be  considered.  Terms  like  par- 
ticle trajectory,  terminal  velocity  and 
sling-out  characteristics  were  bandied 
about. 

Final  design  permits  only  the  tiny  cloud 
droplets  to  snake  their  way  through  the  col- 
lection surface  itself— a  series  of  vertically 
aligned  Teflon  strands.  Larger  raindrops 
are  filtered  out  by  the  lipped  baffles. 

The  Teflon  strands  themselves  were  a 
major  consideration.  Again,  there  were  a 
host  of  variables:  strand  diameter,  flow  re- 
striction, wind  velocity,  droplet  density, 
air  viscosity.  Hours  were  spent  writing 
computer  programs  to  calculate  the  effi- 
ciency of  different  strand  arrangements. 
The  final  setup  involves  three  collection 
cartridges,  each  with  eight  rows  of  Teflon 
strands  placed  '/s-inch  apart. 

In  another  major  innovation,  the  WPI 
collector  features  removable  collection 
cartridges— a  dirty  one  can  simply  be  re- 
placed with  a  spare,  then  cleaned.  In  order 
not  to  upset  the  chemistry  of  the  samples, 
virtual  surgical  cleanliness  was  essential. 

"We  had  to  throw  out  48  samples  after 
we  found  they  were  contaminated,  even 
after  we  had  cleaned  them  with  a  hydro- 


chloric-acid solution  and  rinsed  them  with 
distilled  water,"  says  Dodson.  "It  turns  out 
we  hadn't  used  enough  rinse." 

Now  that  the  baffle  and  cartridge  ar- 
rangements were  completed,  the  final  de- 
sign elements  could  be  decided  upon: 
overall  distance  between  baffles  and  car- 
tridge, location  of  collection  troughs  and 
bottles,  use  of  stainless-steel  bolts  and 
steel-threaded  inserts  rather  than  glue,  a 
rotating  stand  with  two  pillow  block  bear- 
ing assemblies  and  a  stainless-steel  shaft, 
and  a  wooden  2-by-4  base  connected  to  the 
shaft  by  an  aluminum  plate.  To  protect  the 
fragile  alpine  tundra,  rocks  would  be  used 
to  secure  the  base  rather  than  an  anchor 
that  would  involve  digging  or  drilling. 

The  final  need  was  a  wind  tracker.  After 
some  experimentation,  a  3-foot  wind  vane 
with  an  area  of  160  square  inches  was  at- 
tached to  the  rear  of  the  box. 

Like  many  mountain  sites,  the  natural 
wonder  of  Mt.  Washington  has  a  ter- 
rible beauty.  Winter  comes  early 
there,  and  as  October  approached  mem- 
bers of  the  project  team  saw  Lakes  of  the 
Clouds  transformed  from  a  tranquil  oasis 
of  comfort  into  an  empty  fortress  barri- 
caded against  the  onslaught  of  a  brutal 
winter. 

On  September  12,  the  AMC  had  closed 
the  hut  for  the  season.  Gone  were  the  sum- 


16       WPI  JOURNAL 


The  "hut "  at  Lake  of  the  Clouds,  where  the  cloud  team  spent  seven  weeks  testing  cloud 
acidity  with  a  device  they  designed  and  built. 


mer  staffers  and  the  steady  stream  of 
hikers.  Gone,  too,  were  the  bunk  beds  and 
the  comfortable  accommodations.  Team 
members  were  now  housed  in  what  was 
called  the  "refuge  room,"  an  austere  emer- 
gency shelter. 

"Stinky,  wet  and  sweaty"  is  how  Daube 
affectionately  describes  the  place.  "The 
walls  were  always  dripping  and  there 
wasn't  much  light." 

Back-packing  stoves  with  meager  ra- 
tions had  replaced  the  hearty  home-cooked 
meals  of  a  few  weeks  before. 

Now,  Daube,  Lamar,  Dodson  and  Cott 
stayed  at  the  hut  singly  or  in  pairs,  and 
only  when  a  "cloud  event"  was  forthcom- 
ing. Then  the  event  was  documented 
hourly,  along  with  information  on  wind 
speed,  direction,  volumes  collected  and 
general  weather  conditions.  Each  sample 
was  carefully  labeled  and  stored  for  analy- 
sis at  Pinkham  Notch  or  the  New  York 
Botanical  Garden's  Institute  of  Ecosystem 
Studies  at  the  Mary  Flagler  Cary  Arbore- 
tum, in  Millbrook,  NY,  where  Dr.  Likens 
had  assumed  the  directorship.  The  balance 
of  their  time  was  spent  at  the  AMC's 
Pinkham  Notch  headquarters,  working  on 
the  design  for  an  "active"  collector  or  do- 
ing research  on  acid  precipitation. 

The  students  did,  in  fact,  build  an  active 
collector,  designed  especially  for  low-ly- 
ing foggy  areas  with  a  power  source  avail- 


able. On  the  active  model,  a  small  fan 
pulls  the  moisture  through  the  collection 
strands.  Although  there  wasn't  time  for  the 
project  team  to  test  the  active  model  exten- 
sively, all  indications  suggest  it  functions 
quite  well. 

September  had  been  dreadfully  dry. 
Exasperated  team  members,  anxious 
to  see  if  the  collector  worked,  were 
forced  to  spray  mist  into  the  device  from 
their  own  atomizer  bottles.  By  the  begin- 
ning of  October,  however,  "cloud  events" 
had  begun  to  pick  up.  What's  more,  pre- 
liminary tests  produced  exhilarating 
results:  not  only  was  the  WPI  collector 
functioning  beautifully,  but  comparative 
tests  with  the  still-in-place  collectors  the 
AMC  was  using  indicated  that  the  WPI 
collector  was  extremely  successful  in  sep- 
arating rain  from  cloud  water.  When  there 
were  "cloud  events"  and  no  rain,  the  two 
collectors  showed  the  same  readings.  But 
when  there  were  clouds  and  rain,  the  two 
varied  considerably,  clearly  indicating  that 
the  WPI  collector,  with  its  greater  rain- 
separating  capacity,  was  indeed  providing 
the  more  accurate  measurements. 

"Our  collector  survived  some  really  se- 
vere wind  gusts,"  says  Daube,  "and  still 
produced  reliable  readings." 

By  the  third  week  in  October,  the 
weather  had  taken  a  definite  turn  toward 


winter.  Rime  ice,  formed  when  cloud  wa- 
ter freezes  immediately  upon  contact  with 
an  object,  had  begun  to  interfere  with  the 
collection  of  samples. 

The  WPI  collector  was  dismantled  and 
hauled  down  the  mountainside.  Goodbyes 
were  said  to  Ken  Kimball  and  the  others  at 
Pinkham  Notch.  The  students  returned  to 
Worcester.  Reports  were  written. 

Then,  weeks  later,  came  the  word. 

Dr.  Likens  and  Dr.  Bormann  had  of- 
fered Daube  and  Lamar  a  $10,000  grant  to 
build  12  more  collectors— two  passive  and 
ten  active— to  be  placed  throughout  the 
Northern  Hemisphere  to  test  acid-cloud 
content. 

One  of  the  spots  will  again  be  Lakes  of 
the  Clouds.  Daube,  who  plans  to  attend 
graduate  school  in  the  fall,  will  be  hired  by 
the  AMC  to  tend  the  collectors  there. 

"We're  extremely  impressed  with  the 
WPI  collector,"  says  Dr.  Likens.  "We 
hope  it  will  play  an  important  part  in  our 
future  research." 

The  $10,000  to  Daube  and  Lamar  is  part 
of  a  larger,  multi-year  grant  awarded  to 
Likens  and  Bormann— who,  in  1963,  au- 
thored the  first  paper  on  acid  rain  ever 
published  in  the  United  States— by  the  An- 
drew W.  Mellon  Foundation. 

Adds  Kimball  of  the  AMC:  "The  stu- 
dents' design  was  a  major  improvement,  a 
tremendous  push  forward.  They've  helped 
us  develop  the  technology.  We'll  continue 
to  work  on  the  research." 

The  Likens-Bormann  study  will,  for  the 
most  part,  rely  on  the  active  rather  than 
passive  model  in  an  effort  to  standardize 
measurement  techniques. 

While  preliminary  tests  indicate  that 
clouds  may  be  as  much  as  50  times  more 
acidic  than  the  rain  that  falls  from  them, 
Kimball  and  Likens  stress  that  years  of  re- 
search will  be  needed  before  definitive 
results  can  be  determined. 

But  for  some,  the  rewards  are  more  im- 
mediate. To  design  and  build  a  workable 
instrument  such  as  a  cloud-water  collector 
affords  a  tremendous  amount  of  personal 
satisfaction.  And  to  be  asked  to  provide 
the  hardware  for  a  major  study  conducted 
by  two  internationally  recognized  re- 
searchers is  an  accomplishment  of  more 
than  passing  note. 

"I  can't  say  enough  about  this  project," 
beamed  advisor  Bob  Wagner  recently. 
"It's  of  the  highest  quality,  and  it's  what 
the  WPI  project  program  is  all  about." 
That  said,  he  can't  help  but  add:  "I'm  on 
Cloud  Nine." 

Michael  Shanley  is  a  writer  with  the  WPI 
News  Bureau. 


MAY  1984       17 


Dr,  Arthur  Martell,  38: 

His  Distinguished  Career  Goes  On 


Dr.  Arthur  Martell:  "Mr.  Coordination  Chemistry." 


By  Ruth  Trask 


a 


I 


f  I  were  to  advise  undergraduate  stu- 
dents in  chemistry  about  what  path 
to  take,  I'd  tell  them  that  the  future 
belongs  to  research,"  says  Dr.  Arthur  E. 
Martell,  '38  CH,  Distinguished  Professor 
of  Chemistry  and  former  department  head 
at  Texas  A&M  University. 

Regarded  by  most  chemists  as  the  fore- 
most American  research  scientist  of  aque- 
ous coordination  equilibria,  Dr.  Martell 
says  research  benefits  not  only  the  individ- 
ual researcher,  but  also  chemistry  itself 
and,  ultimately,  society  as  a  whole. 

Dr.  Martell  knows  whereof  he  speaks. 
His  research  has  had  a  tremendous  effect 
upon  understanding  the  behavior  of  metal 
ions  and  ligands  in  aqueous  solution.  His 
work  has  explained  many  coordination 
trends  now  used  in  designing  metal  ligands 
for  biological  and  environmental  appli- 
cations. 

Since  stepping  down  as  head  of  A&M's 
department  of  chemistry  in  1980,  Dr.  Mar- 
tell has  continued  his  research  and  is 
teaching  courses  in  bioinorganic  chemistry 
and  inorganic-reaction  mechanisms.  His 
wide-ranging  research  centers  on  develop- 
ing models  for  copper  proteins,  exploring 
how  metal  ions  and  chelates  catalyze 
solvolysis,  understanding  oxidation  reac- 


tions in  solution  and  examining  how  metal 
ions  catalyze  biochemical  reactions. 

Dr.  MarteH's  love  for  coordination 
chemistry  was  evident  early  in  his  career. 
Over  the  years,  he  has  become  known  in 
professional  circles  as  "Mr.  Coordination 
Chemistry." 

In  1952,  he  and  a  Berkeley  colleague, 
Nobel  Laureate  Melvin  Calvin,  published 
Chemistry  of  the  Metal  Chelate  Com- 
pounds (Prentice-Hall),  a  classic  in  its 
field.  In  1959,  he  co-published  Organic 
Sequestering  Agents.  In  1981,  he  edited 
the  American  Chemistry  Society  (ACS) 
publication  Coordination  Chemistry  in  Bi- 
ology and  Medicine  and  Development  of 
Iron  Chelators  for  Clinical  Use  (Elsevier). 
Author  of  nearly  350  journal  articles  on 
equilibria,  kinetics  and  physical  properties 
of  metal  chelate  compounds,  he  is  also 
founding  editor  of  the  Journal  of  Coordi- 
nation Chemistry. 

Dr.  Martell  holds  a  PhD  from  NYU  and 
an  honorary  doctorate  from  WPI.  A 
former  head  of  the  chemistry  department 
at  Illinois  Institute  of  Technology  (1961- 
66),  he  taught  at  Clark  University  from 
1942  to  1961.  While  at  Clark,  where  he 
was  department  chairman  from  1959  to 
1961,  he  helped  develop  EDTA— which, 
among  its  many  applications,  is  an  effec- 
tive agent  for  the  removal  of  radioactive 
contamination.    "Persons  contaminated 


with  fallout  from  an  atomic  bomb  attack 
could  use  EDTA  to  wash  away  radioactive 
material  from  their  skin  or  clothing,"  he 
explains. 

Dr.  Martell  has  lectured  widely  before 
professional  societies  and  at  universities 
around  the  world.  He  has  also  consulted 
for  a  number  of  companies,  including 
Dow  Chemical  Co.,  Pfizer,  Stauffer 
Chemical  and  Kennecott  Copper. 

He  has  been  a  Guggenheim  Fellow 
(1954-55),  a  National  Science  Foundation 
Senior  Fellow  of  the  School  for  Advanced 
Studies,  MIT  (1959-60)  and  a  National 
Institutes  of  Health  Fellow,  U.C.  Berkeley 
(1964-65).  In  1980  he  won  the  ACS 
award  for  distinguished  service  in  research 
to  inorganic  chemistry.  In  addition,  he  has 
received  a  faculty  research  award  spon- 
sored by  the  Texas  A&M  Association  of 
Former  Students. 

Under  Dr.  Martell's  leadership,  the 
Texas  A&M  chemistry  department  came 
from  virtually  nowhere  to  become  one  of 
the  leading  departments  in  the  country.  In 
1966,  when  he  joined  the  university,  the 
department  had  only  23  faculty.  Today, 
there  are  more  than  60,  and  research  funds 
have  increased  tenfold  to  $5.5  million.  His 
administrative  efforts  also  resulted  in  new 
buildings  for  graduate  research  and  under- 
graduate instruction. 

Insistent  that  the  A&M  chemistry  de- 
partment serve  the  entire  area,  he  fostered 
strong  ties  with  industry.  The  department 
even  teaches  chemistry  courses  "by  wire" 
to  a  participating  industrial  firm. 

Dr.  Martell  has  not,  however,  been  con- 
tent with  having  established  a  chemical 
center  of  excellence  in  the  Southwest.  He 
has  also  helped  develop  the  chemical  com- 
munity by  serving  industry,  government 
and  academe  nationwide.  Associates  de- 
scribe him  as  "one  of  those  rare  indi- 
viduals who  has  been  able  to  combine  a 
career  of  administration  with  one  of  re- 
search and  do  a  phenomenal  job  at  both." 

The  leading  researcher  on  stability  con- 
stants of  coordination  compounds,  he  has 
been,  say  colleagues,  "our  one,  uniquely 
important  star  in  this  entire  area." 


18       WPI  JOURNAL 


INTERPRET 

AN 

ANNUAL 

REPORT 


It  was  the  best  of  times,  it  was  the  worst 

of  times.  Whatever  the  case  may  be,  an  annual 

report  makes  one  fiscal  year  sound  like  the  last. 

And  both  sound  successful.  To  find  out  if  a 

company  is  really  in  the  black,  a  reader 

must  tune  in  to  linguistic  clues. 


By  Mary  Ruth  Yoe 


m 


they  lived  happily  ever  after"  You'll  never  find  that 
sentence  in  an  annual  report.  The  institutions  and  corpora- 
tions that  publish  such  yearly  accountings  do  believe  in 
fairy-tale  endings,  but  they  strive  to  achieve  the  same  effect 
through  more  subtle  methods.  That  means  you  should  read  an 
annual  report  as  a  piece  of  literature,  carefully,  circling  the  text. 
Reading  between  the  lines,  you  may  discover  the  bottom  line. 
(Sometimes  skillfully  buried.) 

The  business  of  America,  said  Calvin  Coolidge,  is  business. 
But  the  business  of  American  corporations  is  making  money. 
Even  nonprofit  institutions— such  as  independent  colleges  and 
universities— want  to  stay  solvent.  (Rather  than  sell  a  product, 
they  make  money  by  building  endowments.)  And  each  year 
brings  a  fresh  flood  of  annual  reports— assuring  shareholders  and 
other  constituencies  that  everything  is  basically  OK. 


Nevertheless,  annual  reports  almost  never  mention  money. 

You  can  turn  to  the  back  of  an  annual  report  and  find  pages 
crammed  with  figures  and  balance  sheets,  with  notes  on  nonper- 
forming  assets,  borrowed  funds,  long-term  debts,  dividends,  and 
operating  expenses.  But  "money"— the  word  itself— stays  firmly 
out  of  the  limelight.  Up  front,  the  explanatory  text  that  runs 
between  glossy  photographs— smiling  employees,  freshly  pol- 
ished antique  equipment,  inspirational  nature  scenes— is  dotted 
with  euphemisms  for  the  company's  ruison  d'etre,  its  dirty  little 
secret  of  success:  funds,  earnings,  revenues,  cash  flow,  returns, 
profits. 

On  the  other  side  of  the  ledger,  of  course,  lurk  losses.  Rather 
than  mention  losses  directly,  most  reports  write  of  events  "hav- 
ing a  negative  impact  on  earnings."  A  reader  in  search  of  red  ink 
soon  picks  up  on  clues,  like  the  adverbs  "regrettably"  and  "dis- 


MAY  1984 


The  world  presented  by  the  annual  report 

is  the  best  of  all  possible  worlds.  There  are  no 

"problems"  only  "opportunities." 


appointingly."  Losses— otherwise  known  as  "downturns"  or 
"substantial  write-offs"— are  sure  to  follow. 

While  most  euphemisms  found  in  annual  reports  have  to  do 
with  money  ("a  very-  [italics  mine]  substantial  write-off"  trans- 
lates to  a  $78.5  million  loss  after  tax  benefits),  felicitous  phras- 
ing can  smooth  over  other  pimples  on  the  corporate  facade. 
(Someday,  corporations  may  echo  gracefully  aging  beauties  and 
admit  that  a  few  flaws  add  character.)  The  world  presented  by 
the  annual  report  is  the  best  of  all  possible  worlds.  There  are  no 
"problems,"  only  "challenges"  and  "opportunities."  When  the 
going  gets  really  rough,  there  are  "significant"  or  "major"  op- 
portunities. 

So  a  company  admits  that  it  has  not  been  a  good  year  for  the 
entire  industry,  which  "experienced  its  most  difficult  year  as 
profitability  was  reduced  by  XX  percent."  A  reminder  quickly 
follows  that  Company  A  is  an  industry  leader  when  it  comes  to 
adjusting  to  adversity:  "The  Company  took  a  number  of  decisive 
actions  to  help  weather  the  economic  downturn  and  prepare  for 
better  results  in  the  future." 

Bad  things  do  happen  to  good  companies,  and  sometimes  bad 
things  can  even  be  good  news.  Enter  another  use  for  the  euphe- 
mism, as  when  a  college  president  explains  to  alumni  and  other 
friends  of  Alma  Mater  just  how  the  institution  has  garnered  a 
record  year  in  gifts  and  grants:  "This  outstanding  result  was 
substantially  aided  by  the  maturation  of  23  bequests."  For  a 
bequest  to  mature,  somebody— in  this  case,  23  somebodies— had 
to  die,  or  otherwise  complete  a  career. 

Another  species  of  euphemism:  the  welded  word.  In  annual 
reportage,  certain  words  seldom  appear  without  amplifying 
mates.  A  corporation  never  baldly  "takes  steps."  At  the  very 
least,  a  company  may  admit  to  taking  "further  steps."  Better  still 
are  "prudent  steps,"  "economically  sound  steps,"  or— most  pur- 
poseful of  all— "strategically  important  steps." 

In  much  the  same  way,  the  noun  "emphasis"  seems  to  lack 
emphasis.  So  it  is  never  used  alone.  Annual  reports  speak  of 
"increased  emphasis"  or  "continued  emphasis."  "Commit- 
ments" are  almost  always  "continuing,"  and  "analysis"  is  "in- 
depth."  Even  words  that  can  stand  alone  take  on  extra  meaning 
when  coupled  with  a  few  all-purpose  adjectives.  Current  adjec- 
tives of  choice:  "significant,"  "substantial,"  and  "enhanced." 

Overly  enthusiastic  users  of  the  all-purpose  adjective  do  run 
the  risk  of  redundancy.  One  Ivy  League  university  recently 
boasted  of  "the  positive  enhancements"  made  possible  by  a  cor- 
porate benefactor.  If  the  benefactor  hadn't  come  through,  one 
wonders,  would  that  have  meant  "negative  enhancements"? 

Annual  reports,  like  other  assembly-line  products,  change 
models  from  year  to  year.  In  the  early  1980s,  corporations  fought 
their  way  out  of  a  recession,  and  annual  reports  picked  up  on  the 
military  metaphor.  Another  plus:  military  and  sexual  metaphor 
overlap,  and  every  company  president  knows  that  Sex  Sells.  So 
in  a  competitive  marketplace,  corporations  and  universities  have 


abandoned  "planning  for  the  future"  in  favor  of  "strategic  posi- 
tioning" or,  at  the  very  least,  "strategic  planning."  Companies 
talk  of  strategies,  aggressive  tactics,  taking  action  on  several 
fronts.  Products  are  "developed  to  penetrate  [italics  mine]  the 
evolving  corporate  market."  There  are  objectives,  advances,  alli- 
ances, new  territories.  The  action  verbs  are  "deploy"  and,  when 
things  don't  go  according  to  strategic  planning,  "redeploy." 

As  a  subspecies  of  annual  reports,  those  produced  by  colleges 
and  universities  are  generally  less  glossy  than  their  corporate 
counterparts.  Love  of  euphemism  prevails,  but  the  tone  is 
slightly  different.  While  corporate  reports  are  often  written  by 
anonymous  pens,  at  colleges  and  universities  the  task  falls  most 
often  to  either  the  president  or  to  someone  connected  with  the 
annual  giving  campaign. 

The  three  little  words  most  likely  to  appear  on  the  tombstone 
of  an  annual  giving  officer:  "Another  Record  Year."  That  head- 
line and  its  variations— "Contributions  Break  All  Records," 
"Campaign  Raises  Record  Amount"— sound,  over  and  over, 
like  a  broken  record.  Sometimes  the  writer  will  dredge  up  a 
synonym,  like  "all-time  high"  or  "new  mark."  But  the  device 
most  often  used  to  convert  record-breaking  ennui  into  enthusi- 
asm is  the  exclamation  point— frequently  preceded  by  an  excited 
"ever":  "Again,  the  Highest  Ever!"  "The  most  successful  fund 
campaign  ever!" 

Presidents  don't  use  exclamation  points.  They  emphasize  the 
long  view,  the  fact  that  education  is  a  process.  "Discussion  of 
the  curriculum  is  continuing."  "Further  steps  were  taken  [by 
whom,  the  cynic  wonders]  in  the  University's  program  to 
achieve  long-range  financial  stability."  "Dean  X  and  his  col- 
leagues are  currently  engaged  in  a  number  of  conversations  to 
this  end."  And,  in  summation:  "Much,  however,  remains  to  be 
done."  Since  near-term  prospects  can't  be  ignored,  marketing 
jargon  now  shows  up  in  presidential  prose.  "Suddenly  the  stu- 
dent is  a  scarce  commodity."  Which  means  that  "in  an  increas- 
ingly competitive  college  marketplace,"  a  college  can't  afford  to 
have  "an  insufficient  national  presence."  Send  in  the  direct-mail 
experts. 

For  in  the  final  analysis,  as  one  president  writes,  "Perhaps  the 
most  remarkable  of  G's  assets  are  the  students." 

Above  all,  the  president  is  an  institutional  Pollyanna.  He  or 
she  accentuates  the  positive— a  university's  "traditions  of  excel- 
lence," a  phrase  that  encompasses  "excellent  faculty,"  "out- 
standing students,"  "dramatic  achievements."  But  the  president 
must  also  point  to  challenges:  "maintaining  a  leadership  role," 
"ensuring  the  continued  excellence  of  its  programs,"  "enhancing 
our  preeminent  position." 

Finally,  to  assure  supporters  that  they  have  picked  a  winner, 
even  on  a  tough  track,  the  president  often  puts  in  a  leader-in- 
adversity  reminder:  "Many  other  schools  face  greater  perils  than 
we  do."  The  bottom  line:  "Much,  however,  remains  to  be  done." 


II       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ANNUAL  REPORT 
STARTER  KIT 


You,  too,  can  write  an  annual  report.  (Though  why  you  'd 
want  to  is  another  subject.)  Fourscore  verbs,  adverbs,  adjec- 
tives, and  nouns,  culled  from  state-of-the-art  annual  reports, 
await  your  ventures. 

Simply  pretend  that  you  are  dining  at  a  Chinese-American 
restaurant  and  pick  one  from  Column  A,  one  from  Column  B, 
and  so  on.  With  experience,  you  '11  be  able  to  string  two  or 
more  nouns  together  ("profitability  options,"  "growth  pos- 
tures," "progress  enhancement  initiatives  ").  Adjectives  also 
benefit  from  such  coupling  ("strategic  near-term,"  "sophisti- 
cated evolutionary,"  "continuing  competitive  "). 

A  more  fundamentally  integrated  utilization:  Shareholders 
can  consult  the  chart  to  evaluate  the  mainstream  positioning 
of  their  companies '  strategic  public  relations  efforts. 


VERBS* 

Impact 

Enhance 

Restructure 

Position 

Deploy 

Redeploy 

Implement 

Complement 

Seek 

Finalize 

Outperform 

Maintain 

Anticipate 

Initiate 

Sustain 

Explore 

Reconfigure 

Expand 

Participate 

Respond 


ADVERBS 

Considerably 

Virtually 

Significantly 

Substantially 

Fundamentally 

Aggressively 

Increasingly 

Greatly 

Actively 

Relatively 

Highly 

Ultimately 

Adversely 

Creatively 

Vigorously 

Sufficiently 

Intensively 

Positively 

Importantly 

Imaginatively 


*The  most  important  verb  is,  of  course,  to  be;  and  the  past 
perfect,  has  been,  is  a  virtually  invaluable  form:  "The  Com- 
pany has  been  an  actively  flexible  organization,  able  to  antic- 
ipate the  challenges  of  its  highly  competitive  environment 
and  thus  to  position  itself  creatively  for  significant  long-term 
high-growth  challenges." 

The  passive  voice,  in  all  its  variations,  is  key.  While  it 
may  not  seem  to  complement  the  active  image  sought  by  the 
typical  corporation  or  institution,  creatively  positioned  the 
passive  voice  has  its  utilizations.  Most  importantly,  it  allows 
a  corporation  or  its  officers  to  escape  out-and-out  responsi- 
bility: "Disappointingly,  profitability  has  been  impacted  by 
the  downward  pressures  of  increasingly  negative  near-term 
markets." 

**In  deploying  a  noun,  you  should  remember  that  more  is 
more,  and  try  to  implement  plurals  over  singulars,  thus  main- 
taining a  synergistic  posture  of  expanding  option  packages. 


ADJECTIVES 

Integrated 

Competitive 

Substantial 

Strategic 

Significant 

Flexible 

High-growth 

Long-term 

Evolutionary 

Near-term 

Sophisticated 

Invaluable 

Negative 

Continuing 

Responsive 

Synergistic 

Extraordinary 

Key 

Outstanding 

Mainstream 


NOUNS** 

Action 

Change 

Progress 

Initiatives 

Options 

Strategy 

Profitability 

Utilization 

Positioning 

Expenditures 

Advances 

Growth 

Challenges 

Postures 

Enhancement 

Infrastructures 

Excellence 

Ventures 

Packages 

Opportunity 


MAY  1984       III 


I  PI    Bclinunn  Arvfmc 


Asa  teenager  growing  up  in  suburban 
/^Washington.  D.C..  Bowie  Kuhn 
L  JL worked  through  the  city's  humid 
summers,  at  a  dollar  a  day,  putting  num- 
bers up  on  the  old  wooden  scoreboard  of 
Griffith  Stadium.  The  numbers  usually 
told  of  another  losing  effort  by  the  Sena- 
tors; in  time,  Washington  would  ignobly 
lose  two  editions  of  its  team  to  other  cities. 
"1  started  following  them  in  1933,"  recalls 
Kuhn.  "After  that,  they  never  won  a  pen- 
nant again." 

Kuhn  fared  much  better.  For  15  years, 
he  has  been  commissioner  of  baseball, 
presiding  over  the  sport's  most  prosperous 
era.  During  his  tenure,  attendance  records 
were  set  annually,  climbing  from  22.6  mil- 
lion fans  in  1969  to  45.5  million  in  1983. 
Network  television  revenues  jumped  from 
S16.5  million  a  year  to  a  Sl.2-billion.  six- 
year  pact  to  begin  this  season.  The  game 
itself  snapped  out  of  a  1960s  torpor  that 
cult  statistician  Bill  James  has  called  'the 
most  Godawful  boring  brand  of  baseball 
ever  conceived  of."  and  evolved  into  a 
harmonious  mix  of  base-running  speed, 
home-run  power,  and  dominant  relief 
pitching. 

Simultaneously,    baseball    has    been 
wrenched  through  its  most  tumultuous  and 
trying  period.  For  the  first  time,  the  two 
leagues  played  with  unequal  rules  and 
fielded  an  unequal  number  of  teams.  Play- 
ers were  unchained  through  free  agency; 
owners  were   increasingly   unbridled  as 
they  fought  over— and  against— the  play- 
ers,  paying   salaries   that   averaged 
$289,200  last  year.    For  television 
purposes.  World  Series  games  were 
played  during  late  October  nights, 
amid  snowfalls  and  chilly  winds. 
And.  every  four  years  during 
^  Kuhn's  reign,  scheduled  base- 

^^g^  ball  games  were  not  played 

^B  \  at  all.  as  labor  relations 

^^L         ^  became  worn  and  fray- 

^^  ed,  and  finally  came 

^W       /'J'/       sm        wholly   apart 


in  the  unhappy 
summer  of 
1981.   when 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


a  strike  cancelled  one-third  of  the  season. 

Throughout,  Kuhn  acted  as  chief  execu- 
tive to  a  sport  uneasily  become  an  indus- 
try. His  relations  to  management— the 
owners— were  never  well  defined;  he  was 
at  once  taskmaster  and  servant.  He  voided 
trades,  fined  and  suspended  owners,  even 
forced  lineup  changes.  (When  Henry 
Aaron  was  about  to  break  Babe  Ruth's 
home-run  record  at  the  start  of  the  1974 
season,  Kuhn  ordered  the  Atlanta  Braves 
to  play  him  in  two  of  the  team's  first  three 
road  games,  instead  of  allowing  the  owner 
to  hold  Aaron  out  for  a  lucrative  home 
date.)  His  powers  were  virtually  unlim- 
ited, according  to  a  1977  federal-court  de- 
cision that  upheld  his  banning  of  high- 
priced  player  sales.  Yet  four  years  later, 
another  federal  court  heard  an  owners'  at- 
torney testify,  and  Kuhn  concur,  that  the 
commissioner  had  no  status  in  labor  nego- 
tiations. 

Baseball  "is  not  a  ship  that  turns  easily," 
Kuhn  remarks.  He  takes  direct  credit  for 
only  a  few  changes  in  its  course.  Night 
World  Series  games  he  calls  "my  baby." 
Much  of  his  work  has  been  done  behind 
the  scenes,  he  says,  in  tandem  with  the 
owners.  "Overall,  I  feel  I've  had  a  lot  of 
influence  on  where  the  game  is  going." 
The  Sporting  News,  the  weekly  publica- 
tion regarded  as  baseball's  bible,  agrees. 
In  January  its  editors  named  Kuhn  the 
1983  "Man  of  the  Year"  in  sports,  com- 
mending him  as  "the  steward  of  the  game 
in  a  revolutionary  time,  and  a  good  one." 
The  award  came  a  few  months  after 
Kuhn's  dismissal  as  commissioner  had 
been  sealed,  and  one  year  after  the  paper 
had  pressed  for  his  resignation.  Like  much 
of  the  baseball  world,  they  had  come  to 
praise  Kuhn.  once  they  had  buried  him. 

That  Kuhn,  now  57,  lasted  15  years  in 
baseball's  top  post  is  regarded  as  a  tri- 
umph. His  tenure  is  second  only  to  that  of 
the  first  commissioner.  Judge  Kenesaw 
Mountain  Landis.  Brought  into  the  scan- 
dal-ridden game  in  1921  to  instill  order. 
Landis  did  so  emphatically  for  24  years. 
He  was  followed  by  a  former  governor,  a 
sports  columnist,  and  a  retired  Air  Force 


The  great  American  game:  Opening  day  at  Washington 's  Griffith  Stadium,  1927.  The 
hometown  Senators  marched  with  the  band;  53  years  later,  Reggie  Jackson— a  free  agent 
playing  for  the  highest  bidder— hit  his  400th  homer,  for  the  Sew  York  Yankees. 

THE 

GOOD  OF 
THE  GAME 


The  game  is  baseball,  and  as  commissioner  of 
the  game  for  the  past  15  years,  Bowie  Kuhn 
has  helped  the  sport  enter  the  world  of 
big  business.  Along  the  way,  Kuhn  laments, 
he  has  given  up  some  of  his  fanhood. 

By  Eric  Garland 


MAY  1984       V 


"My  natural  alignment,"  says  Bowie 
Kuhn,  "is  with  the  umpires." 


swings  ana  misses:  tie  played 
— and  umpired— in  a  slow-pitch  Softball 
game  at  the  University  of  Virginia. 

general.  With  Kuhn's  selection  in  1969, 
the  office  again  wore  a  legal  cloak. 

Kuhn  had  spent  his  law  career  with  a 
New  York  firm  that  represented  many  ma- 
jor-league clubs,  and  he  was  fresh  from 
negotiating  player-pension  issues  for  the 
National  League  in  1968.  The  training 
would  be  critical,  for  he  entered  the  game 
as  it  entered  the  world  of  big  business.  The 
nature  of  both  owner  and  player  was 
changing  swiftly,  and  labor  pains  were  be- 
coming sharper  and  more  frequent. 

On  the  management  side,  baseball's 
long-standing  families  were  ready  to  give 
way  to  a  new  breed  of  owner.  For  decades 
a  wealthy  individual— a  Thomas  Yawkey 
(of  the  Boston  Red  Sox)  or  a  Horace 
Stoneham  (who  owned  the  New  York, 
later  the  San  Francisco,  Giants)— had  been 
able  to  pursue  an  interest  in  sports,  living 
as  a  lord  of  baseball.  In  the  1970s  and 
'80s,  the  tide  of  dollars  overwhelmed  such 
owners,  washing  away  all  but  one  of  the 
26  club  fiefdoms.  (A  last  holdout  is 
penny-pinching  Calvin  Griffith,  alone  and 
in  tatters  in  Minnesota.) 

In  their  place  are  executives  and  entre- 
preneurs from  the  corporate  world.  They 
are  well-versed  in  markets  and  products: 
McDonald's  hamburgers,  Levi's  jeans, 
Seagram's  liquor,  the  Chicago  Tribune, 
Doubleday  books,  and  cable  super-station 
WTBS  are  among  the  concerns  that  have 


picked  up  baseball  teams.  Along  with  their 
increased  sophistication  came  an  increased 
struggle  for  Kuhn  to  keep  their  minds  on 
the  "good  of  the  game,"  a  favored  phrase. 
"There  is  a  danger  that  the  interests  of  a 
diversified  company  may  take  precedence 
over  the  baseball  interests,"  says  Kuhn. 
"We've  seen  some  examples  of  that." 

Without  naming  names,  Kuhn  is  refer- 
ring to  such  sore  spots  as  the  attempts  by 
Atlanta's  Ted  Turner  to  broadcast  the 
Braves'  playoff  games  on  cable,  over  top 
of  network  coverage.  Quarrels  among 
owners  have  heated  up  as  the  money  at 
stake  has  ballooned  and  as  the  chances  of 
profits— or,  more  commonly,  losses— have 
multiplied.  "In  1969,  I'd  say  we  were 
fairly  close  to  break-even  overall,"  Kuhn 
reflects.  "Today,  industry  losses  are  in  the 
scores  of  millions." 

Such  financial  pressures,  he  warns, 
have  created  a  "win  at  any  price"  syn- 
drome among  owners.  Each  new  million- 
dollar  contract,  whether  for  players  or  for 
local  television  rights,  sets  rival  owners  in 
motion.  "If  everybody  is  more  or  less 
breaking  even,  you're  not  as  apt  to  be  as 
keenly  competitive,"  Kuhn  says  of  base- 
ball's old  order.  "Today,  because  the 
downside  is  so  big,  everybody's  scram- 
bling not  to  be  in  the  big  loss  position." 

Still,  many  bathers  are  attracted  to  this 
pool  of  red  ink.  One  reason  is  that,  along 
with  players'  salaries,  the  value  of  a  fran- 
chise has  risen  dramatically.  In  1973  the 
New  York  Yankees— baseball's  most 
glamorous  team,  in  the  largest  U.S.  mar- 
ket—were sold  to  George  Steinbrenner  for 
S10  million.  Last  year  the  Detroit  Tigers, 
without  nearly  the  Yankees'  number  of 
championships  or  fans,  were  bought  by  a 
pizza  mogul  for  a  reported  $50  million. 
Kuhn  foresees  a  "land  rush"  when  base- 
ball expands  again.  "I  think  you'll  be 
absolutely  amazed"  by  the  number  of 
bidders,  says  Kuhn,  even  though  expan- 
sion teams  routinely  suffer  a  decade  or 
more  of  inept  play  on  the  field  and  losses 
in  the  front  office. 

But  Kuhn  maintains  that  the  new  owners 
coming  into  the  game  are  not  intent  on 


making  money.  They  would  rather  make 
headlines.  "Baseball  owners  are  the  best- 
known  owners  in  the  country,"  he  says. 
"You  get  more  ink,  more  attention."  And 
feeding  an  owner's  ego,  Kuhn  suggests,  is 
more  important  than  fattening  his  wallet. 
"When  you  see  a  substantial  price  paid  for 
a  team,  how  much  is  paid  by  reason  of  a 
cold-blooded  analysis  of  the  operating 
statement,  and  how  much  is  paid  by  reason 
of  psychic  pressure?" 

In  the  midst  of  these  large  egos  and  large 
bankrolls,  the  commissioner  has  had  to 
speak  softly  while  carrying  a  big  stick. 
Whenever  Kuhn  crossed  an  owner,  he 
knew  the  action  could  eventually  bring 
him  down:  he  could  be  fired  by  a  negative 
vote  from  one-fourth  of  either  league's 
owners.  When,  in  the  aftermath  of  Water- 
gate, he  gave  a  two-year  suspension  to 
George  Steinbrenner  for  illegal  campaign 
contributions,  the  Yankee  owner  began  to 
plot  Kuhn's  downfall.  When  he  started  to 
push  for  more  sharing  of  revenues  among 
teams,  as  the  National  Football  League 
does,  the  television-rich  New  York  Mets 
went  against  him.  And  when  he  approved 
a  split-season  scheme  in  the  wake  of  the 
1981  strike,  a  scheme  that  kept  the  Cincin- 
nati Reds— the  team  with  the  best  overall 
record— out  of  the  playoffs,  that  vote 
went. 

Kuhn  held  his  ground,  in  part,  through 
intense  lobbying  by  his  allies.  Bob  Wirz,  a 
longtime  Kuhn  assistant,  recalls  that 
Edward  Bennett  Williams,  a  prominent 
trial  attorney  who  bought  the  Baltimore 
Orioles  in  1979,  had  been  "sharply  critical 
of  Bowie,  especially  during  the  strike." 
But  as  Williams  was  drawn  more  into 
baseball's  inner  circles,  says  Wirz,  "he 
became  better  acquainted  with  the  system 
and  more  informed,  and  turned  into  one  of 
Kuhn's  staunch  supporters." 

In  the  aftermath  of  the  1981  strike,  how- 
ever, Kuhn  lost  out.  When  his  seven- 
year  contract  came  up  for  renewal  in  1982, 
several  owners  were  on  the  warpath.  The 
Mets'  Nelson  Doubleday  told  the  press 
that  Kuhn  "is  not  a  businessman.  Baseball 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Rain— not  snow— forced  Kuhn  (top)  to  cancel  a  1972  World  Series  night  game.  At  a 
Capitol  Hill  cable-copyright  hearing  (above)  in  1981,  Kuhn  chatted  with  sometime 
adversary  Ted  Turner,  owner  of  the  Atlanta  Braves— and  of  cable  station  WTBS. 


needs  a  leader  who  can  help  bail  us  out  of 
our  current  financial  mess."  Four  other 
National  League  owners— some  with  lin- 
gering grudges,  others  with  freshly  re- 
ceived wounds— lined  up  alongside  Dou- 
bleday,  and  Kuhn  was  toppled. 

Through  Kuhn's  lame-duck  year  of 
1983,  the  owners  stumbled  about  for  a 
replacement.  Meanwhile,  Kuhn  plugged 
away,  streamlining  baseball's  hierarchy 
and  putting  more  order  into  league  deci- 
sion-making. Baseball's  different  power 
centers— its  marketing  arm,  the  league 
presidents'  offices,  its  player  relations 
committee— with  offices  scattered  about 
Manhattan,  were  brought  under  the  same 


roof  in  the  commissioner's  building  on 
Park  Avenue.  The  change  was  not  just 
geographical:  lines  of  authority  now  flow 
upward  from  these  bodies  to  the  commis- 
sioner. The  two  leagues  are  set  to  vote  as 
one  on  most  issues— including  the  status  of 
the  commissioner  (which  now  requires  a 
majority  vote  to  change). 

As  the  owners  continued  their  search, 
Kuhn  agreed  to  stay  on  through  March, 
then  through  this  August.  For,  Finally, 
after  Kuhn  had  greatly  enhanced  the  com- 
missioner's powers,  and  after  the  owners 
had  sweetened  the  pot  from  Kuhn's 
$250,000  annual  salary  to  a  reported 
$400,000,  a  recruit  was  signed  on— Peter 


Ueberroth,  organizer  of  the  summer 
Olympics  in  Los  Angeles.  "Do  I  find  it 
ironic?"  Kuhn  asks  of  his  management 
shake-up,  revisions  that  left  him  on  the 
outside.  As  lawyers  say,  he  answers  in  the 
affirmative. 

If  Kuhn  paid  heavily  for  shepherding  the 
owners  into  the  modern  era,  he  suffered 
also  at  the  hands  of  the  players.  In  the 
1940s  the  owners  had  routed  player  organ- 
izing, and  the  Major  League  Baseball 
Players  Association  had  remained  little 
more  than  a  weak  house  union  until  the 
1967  arrival  of  Marvin  Miller.  A  former 
economist  and  negotiator  for  the  United 
Steelworkers,  Miller's  tenure  roughly  co- 
incided with  Kuhn's— and  in  the  eyes  of 
the  media,  the  fans,  and,  most  important, 
the  owners,  Miller  kept  coming  out  on 
top.  "We've  been  hornswoggled,  and 
we're  going  to  pay  for  it,"  fumed  Cardi- 
nals owner  Gussie  Busch  after  a  1976  set- 
tlement engineered  largely  by  Kuhn. 

There  is  an  uncommon  note  of  irritation 
in  Kuhn's  voice  when  he  talks  about 
Miller,  who  retired  in  1982.  Kuhn  believes 
ownership  has  progressed  from  a  wary  re- 
lation with  the  union  to  a  practical, 
straightforward  stance.  It's  the  union  that 
has  regressed,  he  says,  to  conservatism. 
He  cites  its  opposition  to  drug-testing  of 
players,  claiming  that  sports  unions  "have 
to  participate  in  that  if  they're  going  to  be 
modern  and  effective." 

Under  Miller's  guidance,  the  players' 
association  became  quite  modern  and  ex- 
tremely effective,  leaving  behind  a  period 
when  the  most  militant  issues  included 
water  fountains  in  the  dugouts.  As  Miller 
solidified  the  players  and  initiated  collec- 
tive bargaining— held  every  four  years  to 
up  a  new  basic  agreement— the  union  be- 
gan to  chip  away  at  the  owners  and  at  the 
commissioner.  In  1968  the  players  came 
away  with  a  binding  arbitration  system  to 
handle  grievances,  which  formerly  were 
settled  by  the  commissioner.  Then  the 
players  struck  for  the  first  13  days  of  the 
1972  season,  to  win  more  pension  money 
and  salary  arbitration. 

Their  biggest  prize  came  two  days  be- 


MAY  1984       VII 


Word  on  the  strike:  News  crews  sur- 
round Marvin  Miller,  the  players '  repre- 
sentative, as  he  leaves  federal  court. 

fore  Christmas  in  1975,  when  arbitrator 
Peter  Seitz  gave  them  an  early  present: 
free  agency.  Traditionally,  a  player  was 
bound  to  his  team  for  perpetuity;  if  he 
refused  to  sign  a  new  contract,  the  club 
invoked  a  "reserve  clause"  to  retain  him. 
Seitz  ruled  that  a  player  could  be  held  for 
one  year,  as  the  contract  language  actually 
stated,  but  no  more.  The  decision  was  a 
tremendous  blow  to  the  owners.  They  had 
known,  of  course,  that  their  antitrust  pro- 
tection was  eroding;  after  all,  the  Supreme 
Court  scores  had  gotten  steadily  closer, 
from  9-0  in  1922  (Federal  Baseball  Club 
of  Baltimore  v.  National  League  el  al.)  to 
7-2  in  1953  (Toolson  v.  New  York  Yankees) 
to  5-3  in  1972  (Curt  Flood  v.  Bowie  Kuhn 
et  al.).  But  Seitz 's  decision,  they  cried, 
would  cause  financial  tremors  and  ruin  the 
game. 

The  following  spring,  the  owners  locked 
the  players  out  of  training  camps,  hoping 
to  roll  back  the  players'  gain.  Kuhn  saw 
the  lockout  as  a  futile  gesture.  "I  opened 
the  camps  because  I  thought  the  owners 


were  wrong.  It  was  not  a  popular  move, 
but  the  players  were  on  the  right  side  of 
that  issue."  The  union  did  not  argue  for 
complete,  chaotic  free  agency,  but  for  a 
system  that  allowed  players  with  six  years' 
seniority  to  negotiate  with  several  teams  if 
they  played  out  their  contract.  An  agree- 
ment was  reached,  and  that  fall  the  first 
batch  of  22  free  agents  went  into  the  hop- 
per. Twelve  emerged  with  million-dollar 
contracts. 

Over  the  next  four  years  the  owners  bat- 
ted .500  on  their  predictions.  Players'  sal- 
aries did  climb  mightily,  as  their  services 
were  sold  in  a  free  market.  But  the  game 
enjoyed  its  tightest  pennant  races  in  years 
and  attendance  swelled.  Still,  Kuhn  urged 
restraint  in  the  face  of  ever-higher  payrolls 
and  expenses;  in  annual  "State  of  Base- 
ball" messages,  he  raised  the  specter  of 
teams  unable  to  compete  for  high-priced 
stars.  And  by  the  1980  bargaining  session, 
the  owners  were  set  on  gaining  some  com- 
pensation for  lost  free  agents.  They 
wanted  to  penalize  the  team  that  signed  a 
free  agent  by  requiring  it  to  give  up  a 
player  in  return;  in  effect  they  were  asking 
the  players  to  put  the  bit  between  their 
teeth.  The  players  naturally  resisted,  and 
the  issue  was  tabled.  It  smoldered  until 
1981 ,  when  a  bitter  strike  burned  a  hole  in 
the  middle  of  the  season. 

Recalling  that  episode,  Kuhn  finds  the 
union  in  the  wrong.  "When  it  got  down  to 
negotiations,  it  became  apparent  they 
didn't  want  to  make  any  concessions.  At 
no  time  did  I  think  it  was  a  proper  strike 
issue,  because  the  compensation  would 
not  be  all  that  grievous."  The  union  was 
mistaken  in  calling  the  strike,  Kuhn  says, 
"and  they  had  a  hard  time  getting  out  of 
it."  Miller  calls  such  a  reading  of  events 
"balderdash."  The  owners  had  dug  in  be- 
forehand. Miller  notes,  by  taking  out  a  50- 
day  strike  insurance  policy  with  Lloyd's  of 
London.  On  the  50th  day  of  the  strike, 
after  713  games  had  been  wiped  out, 
Miller  says,  "the  strike  was  settled  on  the 
basis  of  a  proposal  I  personally  made  to 
the  owners  before  it  began." 

Throughout  the  strike  Kuhn  appeared  to 


be  in  the  twilight.  His  hands  were  tied  by 
the  earlier  court  testimony  that  he  had  no 
say  in  labor  relations— that  such  a  voice 
was  the  province  of  the  owners'  players 
relations  committee  (PRC).  Today  Kuhn 
insists  he  was  able  to  work  behind  the 
scenes,  even  though  "there  wasn't  a  direct 
line  in  the  corporate  management  box  run- 
ning up  from  the  PRC  to  me,  as  there  is 
now."  Whatever  the  case,  he  never  played 
a  "hole  card"  to  end  the  strike,  as  he  had 
promised  to  77?^  Sporting  News.  Much  of 
the  media,  and  many  fans,  wondered 
where  baseball's  steward  was  as  the  game 
ran  aground.  And  the  owners,  who  had 
entered  the  strike  full  of  bravado— one  had 
boasted  they  would  "hang  Miller's  head 
on  a  pole"— had  only  one  place  to  swing 
their  ax  when  the  season  ended. 

The  strike  left  an  ugly  stain  on  baseball, 
and  the  blame  put  on  Kuhn  for  its  duration 
had  to  hurt.  Kuhn  has  always  named  safe- 
guarding the  game's  integrity  and  credibil- 
ity as  his  top  duty.  Even  when  he  carried 
his  code  of  honor  to  extremes— scolding 
Jim  Bouton  for  the  raucously  telling  Ball 
Four,  banning  Willie  Mays  from  official 
baseball  ties  over  shaking  hands  for  an  At- 
lantic City  casino— his  critics  recognized 
an  overarching  will  to  keep  the  game 
clean.  An  "upright  scoutmaster,"  sports 
columnist  Red  Smith  called  him. 

Kuhn's  past  and  bearing  do  have  a 
touch  of  starch  in  them.  President  of 
his  high  school  Honor  Society  and  Bank 
Club,  he  spent  two  years  in  a  Naval-offi- 
cer training  program  while  at  Franklin  and 
Marshall  College,  then  went  on  to  Prince- 
ton after  World  War  II,  and  received  his 
law  degree  from  the  University  of  Vir- 
ginia. He  immediately  joined  the  Wall 
Street  law  firm  of  Willkie,  Farr,  and  Gal- 
lagher, attracted  to  its  baseball  clients  and 
its  political  heritage. 

In  his  current  office,  classical  music 
comes  from  a  desk  radio.  Well-tailored, 
deep  in  voice,  and  usually  standing  or  pac- 
ing when  he  talks  to  seated  visitors,  Kuhn 
can  appear  the  Imperial  Commissioner.  "I 
think  his  6  feet,  5  inches  works  against 


VIII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


him,"  says  Wirz,  who  makes  a  pitch  for  an 
unreported,  genuinely  affable  side  of 
Kuhn. 

But  if  Kuhn  comes  across  to  the  public 
as  aloof,  notes  Ken  Nigro,  a  baseball 
writer  for  10  years  at  the  Baltimore  Sun, 
it's  hardly  an  accident.  "He  was  very  inac- 
cessible to  the  media,"  Nigro  says.  Lack- 
ing the  public-relations  background  of 
football  commissioner  Pete  Rozelle,  Kuhn 
shrugged  off  a  lot  of  press  demands.  The 
silence,  Nigro  believes,  "helped  cost  him 
his  job." 

"I  had  to  take  the  slings  and  arrows," 
Kuhn  says,  more  concerned  with  working 
for  the  good  of  the  game.  His  solace  is  that 
he  can  pronounce  the  game  good,  on  the 
field  and  in  the  stands.  He  calls  baseball 
the  "family  sport— more  women,  more 
children  in  the  ballparks,"  and  he  points 
out  that  ticket  prices  have  not  been  grossly 
inflated.  He  cheers  the  teams'  greater  em- 
phasis on  marketing  and  promotions  that 
bring  more  and  more  varied  fans  into  the 
parks.  "I'm  sort  of  sorry  we  didn't  find  the 
San  Diego  Chicken  and  the  Philly 
Phanatic  40  years  ago,"  he  says,  in  ear- 
nest. "I  really  enjoy  them."  He  stands  be- 
hind night  World  Series  games  as  "a  dra- 
matic way  to  showcase  baseball";  and, 
although  he  now  wishes  the  leagues  would 
decide  together  on  the  fate  of  the  desig- 
nated hitter,  he  stands  behind  it  as  a  neces- 
sary experiment  in  its  time. 

Baseball  as  an  art  form  has  been  another 
of  Kuhn's  puzzles  in  modernism.  With  is- 
sues like  the  designated  hitter  and  World 
Series  night  play,  he  has  had  to  balance  the 
classical  purity  of  the  game  against  steps 
taken  to  widen  its  appeal.  Out-of-sync  ele- 
ments, such  as  the  different  number  of 
teams  in  the  two  leagues,  do  concern  him; 
wilder  proposals  for  change  are  examined 
coldly.  "I  believe  in  the  Rip  Van  Winkle 
theory,"  Kuhn  told  Thomas  Boswell  in 
Inside  Sports  in  1980.  "A  man  from  1910 
must  be  able  to  wake  up  after  being  asleep 
for  seventy  years,  walk  into  a  ballpark, 
and  understand  baseball  perfectly."  Still, 
alterations  that  could  bring  in  more  tele- 
vision, more  attendance,  and  more  money 


Quiet  resignation:  With  only  10  days  left  on  his  contract,  Bowie  Kuhn  announced  at  an 
August  1983  news  conference  that  he  was  resigning  as  baseball  commissioner.  Promising 
to  stay  until  a  replacement  was  found,  he  departs  the  post  this  August. 


are  necessarily  of  interest  to  him.  Inter- 
league  play  is  a  warm  subject;  the  ex- 
panded playoffs  of  other  sports,  once 
heavily  discussed  by  the  American 
League,  are  for  now  "not  on  the  front 
burner." 

As  commissioner  of  the  game  for  15 
years,  Kuhn  laments,  he  has  had  to  give  up 
some  of  his  fanhood.  He  cannot  root  for 
any  team.  He  has  little  time  to  pore  over 
the  box  scores  in  the  New  York  Times  and 
Daily  News  left  on  his  New  Jersey  front 
porch  each  morning.  When  he  attends  his 
60  to  70  games  a  year  (more  of  them  col- 
lege, minor-league,  and  foreign  than  not) 
and  turns  many  more  on  at  night  on  televi- 
sion, he  finds  himself  watching  the  um- 
pires. "My  natural  alignment  is  with 
them."  he  says.  "They're  sort  of  the  com- 
missioners on  the  field."  Yet  he  still  no- 
tices the  rhythms  of  the  game,  and  finds  it 
a  more  interesting,  exciting,  running  game 
today,  with  less  emphasis  on  the  "big, 
slow-footed  sluggers"  of  his  youth.  "The 
game  is  a  beautifully  integrated  whole," 
Kuhn  sums  up.  "All  the  pieces  work." 

Nigro  says  Kuhn  will  be  missed  as  com- 
missioner because,  fittingly  enough,  he's 
likely  the  last  one  who  "really  and  truly 
loves  baseball.  Now  it's  getting  to  where 
everything  is  business."  Indeed.  Kuhn's 
successor,  Ueberroth— highly  regarded  for 
his  financial  and  organizational  talents  in 


building  the  nation's  second-largest  travel 
agency— described  himself  upon  his  ap- 
pointment as  "a  stranger  to  baseball"  who 
owned  rarely  used  season  tickets  to  Dodg- 
ers games. 

After  August,  Kuhn  plans  to  return  to 
legal  work,  some  related  to  sports,  some 
not.  An  avid  reader  of  American  history 
and  politics— Washington,  Jefferson,  and 
Wendell  Willkie,  a  founder  of  his  old  law 
firm,  are  favorites— he'll  also  go  back 
through  Roger  Angell's  New  Yorker  pieces 
on  baseball.  "I'll  read  Roger  almost  the 
way  I  pick  up  a  volume  of  Robert  Frost 
and  go  through  it."  Kuhn  says  of  the  writer 
he  calls  the  "poet  laureate  of  the  game." 

In  turn.  Angell— like  almost  everyone 
else,  of  mixed  feelings  about  Kuhn— wrote 
in  1969  that  "he  may  be  the  best  thing  that 
has  happened  to  baseball  since  the 
catcher's  mitt."  a  commissioner  who  could 
"force  baseball's  Cro-Magnons  into  com- 
mon sense  planning  and  grudging  contem- 
poraneity." Upon  Kuhn's  exit,  Angell  was 
brief  and  somber.  "Mr.  Kuhn  is  a  pleasant 
and  hardworking  gent,  with  a  deep  love  of 
the  game,"  he  observed,  "and  I  think  he 
has  been  ill-used  by  his  employers." 
Knowing  the  score,  Kuhn  simply  says 
he'll  miss  the  game  and  the  people  in  it. 

Eric  Garland,  a  writer  at  Baltimore 
Magazine,  is  a  Pittsburgh  Pirates  fan. 


MAY  1984       IX 


COUNTING  DOWN  THE 

TOP  TEN 


As  these  brief  biographies  show,  all  numbers 
were  not  created  equal  Some  rate  as  stars,  the 

author  argues,  while  others  remain  in  the 
background.  Why?  Hie  answers  lie  in  mathe- 
matics, science,  religion,  and  folklore. 
And  the  Top  Ten  turns  into  the  Top  Eleven. 

By  Robert  Kanigel 
Illustrations  by  Robert  Soule 


9  When  the  Beatles  released  The 
White  Album  in  1968,  the  number 
Nine  came  in  for  an  unaccustomed 
taste  of  celebrity:  One  of  the  songs 
on  that  untitled  LP  classic  ended  with  a 
strange,  hypnotic  mantra— "Number  nine 
.  .  .  number  nine  .  .  .  number  nine 
.  .  ."—that  has  kept  fans  and  critics  won- 
dering ever  since. 

Until  then.  Nine's  reputation  had  rested 
largely  on  its  being  not-quite-Ten:  In  ex- 
pressions like  "Possession  is  nine  points 
of  the  law,"  or  "nine  times  out  of  ten," 
Nine  carries  the  flavor  of  something  al- 
most true  but  not  quite,  of  something  miss- 
ing, incomplete.  The  bowling  game 
known  as  ninepins?  "Tenpins  without  the 
head  pin,"  is  how  one  dictionary  defines 
it.  This  same  almost-Ten  quality  has  been 
exploited  commercially— as  in  a  sale  price 
of  $69.99,  say,  where  the  Nines  disguise 
the  70  dollars  an  item  really  costs. 

To  the  early  medieval  mind,  at  least, 
Nine  was  perfect:  It  was  Three  times 
Three,  the  product  of  the  perfect  triad 
(with  all  its  Christian  symbolism)  times  it- 
self. Nine— which  may  owe  its  graphic 
form  to  the  Greek  letter  theta  (0),  once 
used  to  denote  it— is  the  number  of  Muses 
of  the  ancient  Greeks  and  the  number  of 


rivers  in  the  classical  hell.  It  is  the  number 
of  Etruscan  gods  whose  worship  was  intro- 
duced to  Rome,  the  number  of  heads  on 
the  mythological  Hydra.  The  number  of 
lives  folklore  attributes  to  cats,  it  can 
claim  a  modest  contribution  to  sports  jar- 
gon as  well:  "a  nine"  can  be  a  baseball 
team,  or  half  a  standard  round  of  golf. 

Aside  from  these  claims  to  distinction, 
Nine  has  little  to  recommend  it. 

8  When  human  beings  make  things, 
they  make  them  with  Eights. 
It  is,  as  it  were,  a  secular  num- 
ber, largely  barren  of  religious  or 
symbolic  significance.  Eight  is  the  crew  of 
oarsmen  on  a  racing  boat,  the  number  of 
slices  in  the  standard  pizza.  It  is  an  auto- 
mobile engine  of  that  many  cylinders,  the 
number  of  squares  in  each  chessboard 
row,  of  reindeer  powering  Santa's  sleigh. 
It  is  the  number  of  triplets  of  broken  and 
unbroken  lines  that  the  ancient  Chinese 
used  to  form  the  64  trigrams  of  the  / 
Ching. 

If  you  keep  dividing  a  measuring  scale 
in  halves,  pretty  soon  you're  down  to 
eighths.  So  it  is  in  eighth-dollars,  not  dol- 
lars and  cents,  that  Wall  Street  records 
stock  prices.  Inches  are  divvied  up  into 


eighths,  musical  time  into  eighth  notes.  In 
navigation,  compass  direction  is  tradition- 
ally reckoned  in  eighths  of  a  point— a  point 
being  one-eighth  of  a  quarter  circle,  or 
about  1 1  degrees. 

Students  of  computers  learn  that  eight 
bits,  the  fundamental  unit  of  information, 
make  a  byte.  (A  bit  is  the  information  you 
have  when  you  know  that  a  switch  that 
may  be  On  or  Off  is  actually  one  or  the 
other.)  Eight  bits  can  represent  2",  or  256 
possible  combinations,  which  is  enough  to 
give  unique  on-off  codes  to  each  number, 
letter  of  the  alphabet,  and  punctuation 
mark— and  enough,  in  the  early  days  of 
computers,  to  get  eight  bits  its  own  name. 

Keep  halving  and  you  get  eighths;  keep 
doubling  and  you  get  eights.  And  double  is 
just  what  computer  memories,  which  are 
figured  in  so  many  "K,"  or  thousand  bytes 
of  capacity,  do  with  each  new  generation; 
almost  invariably  they're  rated  in  multi- 
ples of  8K.  A  capacity  of  10K  or  12K  or 
18K  is  rare,  one  of  8K,  16K,  or  64K  the 
rule. 

When  it  comes  to  symbolic  signifi- 
cance, Eight's  claim  is  thin.  One  survey  of 
the  otherwise  rich  tradition  of  Jewish  nu- 
merology, for  example,  notes  that  Eight, 
like  Nine,  "does  not  appear  to  have  any 


X       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


MAY  1984       XI 


intrinsic  symbolic  import."  The  few  men- 
tions of  an  eighth  day  in  the  Old  Testament 
stem  from  its  proximity  to  the  more  signif- 
icant seventh  day.  And  the  term  "eighth 
wonder"  refers  to  a  marvel  not  itself  one 
of  the  real  Seven  Wonders  of  the  World. 

Even  as  the  span,  in  hours,  of  the  "nor- 
mal" workday.  Eight's  claim  is  diluted, 
the  eight-hour  day's  hold  on  modern  con- 
sciousness doubtless  owing  as  much  to  the 
three  satisfyingly  equal  parts  into  which 
the  day's  24  hours  conveniently  divide. 

5  Among  the  Tamanac  Indians  of  the 
Orinoco  River  basin,  Five  is 
amgnaitone,  meaning  "one  hand 
complete."  Similarly,  the  Roman 
symbol  for  Five,  V,  was  most  likely  a  hier- 
oglyph for  an  uplifted  open  hand:  One 
stroke  represented  the  thumb,  the  other  the 
four  fingers  together.  The  U  and  the  in- 
verted V  that  stood  for  Five  on  early  Ro- 
man monuments  can  be  likewise  visual- 
ized. 

Five  is  inextricably  linked  to  the  five 
fingers  of  the  hand.  But  humans  have  two 
hands  and  ten  fingers,  so  that  Five  has, 
like  Nine  but  for  different  reasons,  lived  in 
Ten's  shadow.  Most  cultures  picked  both 
hands— Ten— as  the  basis  of  their  number 
systems.  Some,  like  the  Celts,  settled  on 
hands  and  feet— Twenty.  Even  today,  the 
French  word  for  eighty  is  quatre-vingts  or 
"four  20s."  A  very  few,  including  several 
African  tribes  found  by  the  explorer  Stan- 
ley, have  used  "quinary,"  or  base  five, 
systems.  Homer  used  the  Greek  word  for 
Five  as  a  verb,  "to  count,"  but  apparently 
the  Greeks  employed  a  true  decimal  sys- 


tem in  which  Five  merely  served  as  a  natu- 
ral halting  place,  halfway  up  from  units  to 
tens— just  as  grade  schoolers  today  sing- 
song, "Five,  ten,  fifteen,  twenty." 

In  ancient  times,  Five  was  often  used  for 
"a  few."  Some  scholars,  for  instance,  read 
the  "five  smooth  stones"  that  the  biblical 
David  chose  for  slinging  at  Goliath  as 
merely  "several"  stones. 

Followers  of  the  Greek  mathematician 
Pythagoras  believed  that  in  numbers  lay 
the  key  to  all  manner  of  cosmic  mysteries. 
To  the  Pythagoreans,  Five  stood  for  mar- 
riage because  it  was  the  sum  of  the  first 
feminine  number,  Two,  and  the  first  mas- 
culine number,  which  was  not  One  but 
Three.  It  was  also  "circular"  because,  like 
Six,  it  forever  reproduced  its  last  digit 
when  raised  to  any  power:  Five  squared  is 
25,  cubed  is  125,  to  the  fourth  is  625,  and 
soon. 

Words  owing  their  origins  to  Five  in- 
clude quintessential,  which  refers  to  a 
higher  "fifth  essence"  beyond  the  basic 
four  "essences"  of  the  Greeks  (earth,  air, 
fire,  and  water).  And  the  punch  served  at 
parties:  During  the  17th  century,  the  En- 
glish took  a  liking  to  an  East  Indian  drink 
made  from  water,  sugar,  lemon  juice, 
spice,  and  arrak,  a  strong  alcoholic  bever- 
age made  from  rice  or  molasses.  The  in- 
gredients numbered  five,  which  in  San- 
skrit is  panca. 

6  The  "Six  Counties"  constitute 
Northern  Ireland.  Six  "compa- 
nies," or  family  clans,  are  said  to 
run  San  Francisco's  Mafia.  The 
"six-shooter"  put  many  an  Old  West  gun- 


slinger  "six  feet  under."  The  modern  uni- 
versity calendar's  semester  derives  from 
the  Latin  sex  and  menstris,  meaning  "six 
months."  A  sixth  sense  suggests  powers  of 
perception  beyond  the  ordinary  five.  In  the 
old  12-hour  day  that  ran  from  sunrise  to 
sunset,  the  sixth  hour— siesta  in  Spanish- 
was  reserved  for  midday  naps.  Ocean 
depth  is  measured  in  fathoms  of  six  feet. 
(On  the  Mississippi,  "mark  twain"  was  12 
feet.)  The  six-sided  benzene  ring  functions 
as  the  skeleton  for  many  organic  mole- 
cules. Snow  crystals  are  six-sided.  So  are 
the  waxy  cells  of  a  beehive. 

Six.  The  Pythagoreans  called  it  the 
"perfect  number,"  since  it  was  both  prod- 
uct and  sum  of  Three  and  Two  and  One. 
But  let's  face  it,  Six's  real  significance 
may  derive  from  its  role  as  an  ambassador, 
as  it  were,  from  the  Twelve-based  duodec- 
imal system,  where  it  plays  a  role  analo- 
gous to  that  played  by  Five  in  the  decimal 
system. 

cA  ^^  Whether  as  the  sum  of  ten- 
I  J  digits-plus-two  hands,  or  else 
I       /     as  the  number  of  phalanges, 

JL  mm  or  finger  segments,  on  each 
hand.  Twelve  has  always  made  for  special 
convenience  in  counting.  And  it  can  be 
divided  by  2,  3,  4,  or  6,  whereas  10  is 
divisible  only  by  2  and  5.  In  any  case. 
Twelve  long  ago  took  on  mystic  signifi- 
cance as  a  round  number.  Homer  tells  us 
that  Ajax  and  Odysseus  each  commanded 
12  ships,  that  12  Ionian  cities  formed  an 
alliance.  Israel,  says  the  Old  Testament, 
had  12  tribes;  Christ,  according  to  the 
New,  had  12  disciples. 


XII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


In  commerce,  everything  from  eggs  to 
T-shirts  is  still  counted  by  dozens  and  frac- 
tions of  dozens,  rather  than  by  tens.  Four 
bottles  of  aspirin  on  a  pharmaceutical  sup- 
plier's order  form  are  still  apt  to  be  re- 
corded as  one-third  dozen.  Doughnuts  are 
sold  by  the  dozen,  as  are  file  folders, 
erasers,  and  tent  pegs.  Photographic  film 
typically  comes  in  12-,  24-,  or  36-expo- 
sure  rolls.  Beer  is  sold  in  six-packs,  or  in 
cases  of  two  dozen— never  by  tens.  (But 
seltzer,  where  still  available  in  real  siphon 
bottles,  comes  in  cases  often;  so  do  com- 
puter diskettes.) 

The  jury  of  twelve  is  sacred  to  our  judi- 
cial system;  proposals  to  reduce  its  size 
have  gained  but  scant  success.  What  little 
orderliness  the  English  system  of  measure- 
ment boasts  can  also  be  traced  to  Twelve: 
Twelve  inches  make  a  foot,  12  troy  ounces 
an  old  English  pound,  12  pence  an  old 
English  shilling. 

A  dozen  dozens,  of  course,  equals  a 
gross.  But  did  you  know  that  a  dozen 
gross—  1 ,728  or  the  duodecimal  equivalent 
of  1 ,000— has  been  called  a  "mass"? 

Woolworth's  didn't  make  it  as  a  "six 
and  twelve,"  but  multiples  of  Six— 12,  60, 
120,  and  even  360— continue  to  give  deci- 
mal systems  a  run  for  their  money. 

4  If  you  ask  a  member  of  certain 
primitive  tribes  how  many  cattle  he 
owns,  the  reply,  should  he  own 
more  than  three,  is  apt  to  be  sim- 
ply, "Many." 

Four  is  a  transitional  number.  A  number 
may  be  squared  or  cubed,  but  never 
"fourthed."  We  say  "once,"  "twice,"  or 


"thrice"— but  never  "fource."  In  1921, 
psychologist  A.  Descoeudres  went  so  far 
as  to  describe  what  she  called  the  un, 
deux,  trois,  beaucoup  phenomenon:  A 
preschooler's  ability  to  determine  number 
appears  to  break  down  rather  abruptly, 
with  numbers  greater  than  three  becoming 
simply  "a  lot." 

A  Czech  says,  "Two  and  two  are  four," 
but,  "Two  and  three  is  five."  To  Karl 
Menninger,  author  of  Number  Words  and 
Number  Symbols,  this  type  of  linguistic 
evidence  hints  that  past  a  certain  point  in  a 
counting  sequence,  numbers  become 
things  of  their  own,  are  no  longer  merely 
appendages  of  the  things  they  modify.  For 
Menninger,  Four  frequently  occupies  this 
transitional  point.  Some  psychological  test 
results  even  suggest  that  the  brain  sees 
small  numbers  as  distinct  entities— as 
threeness  or  fourness— in  the  same  way  it 
sees,  say,  cowness. 

Four  is  the  number  of  nucleotide  bases 
making  up  the  genetic  code,  the  number  of 
questions  Jewish  youngsters  ritually  ask 
(and  the  number  of  cups  of  wine  ritually 
consumed)  at  the  Passover  seder,  the  num- 
ber of  leaves  on  a  clover  said  to  bring  good 
luck.  And,  perhaps,  if  recent  formulations 
of  subatomic  structure  are  right,  the  num- 
ber of  "flavors,"  or  varieties,  of  quark. 

The  Pythagoreans  regarded  Four  as  the 
number  of  justice,  because  it  was  a  perfect 
square,  symmetrical,  neatly  divisible  into 
equal  parts.  "Foursquare"  means  sound, 
frank,  honest.  4-H  Club  members  extol 
head,  heart,  hands,  and  health.  And 
there's  even  something  morally  upright 
and  solid  about  four-poster  beds. 


In  "Inventory,"  Dorothy  Parker,  that 
master  of  light  verse,  had  this  contribution 
to  make  to  the  literature  of  Four: 

Four  be  the  things  I  am  wiser  to  know: 
Idleness,  sorrow,  a  friend,  and  a  foe. 
Four  be  the  things  I'd  be  better  without: 
Love,  curiosity,  freckles,  and  doubt. 

7  Seven  works  a  spell. 
The  Egyptians  had  Seven  Spirits, 
the  Hindus  Seven  Devas.  There  are 
seven  deadly  sins,  seven  champi- 
ons of  Christendom.  Japanese  folklore 
speaks  of  Seven  Gods  of  Happiness.  Cab- 
alists  tell  of  seven  abodes  of  bliss— the  last 
of  these  being  "Seventh  Heaven,"  the 
abode  of  God  and  the  highest  angels.  (The 
Koran  speaks  of  seven  levels  of  hell.)  A 
"seventh  son"  is  said  to  be  gifted  with 
occult  powers.  The  Revelation  of  St.  John 
the  Divine,  in  the  New  Testament,  men- 
tions seven  stars,  seven  angels,  seven  can- 
dlesticks, seven  spirits  of  God,  and  "a 
book  .  .  .  sealed  with  seven  seals"— from 
which  Ingmar  Bergman's  film,  77?^  Sev- 
enth  Seal,  took  its  name. 

Nor  is  Seven-clustering  confined  to  the 
realm  of  the  spirit.  There  are  seven  liberal 
arts,  seven  days  in  the  week,  seven  notes 
in  the  musical  scale,  seven  seas.  In  As  You 
Like  It,  Shakespeare  surveyed  "seven  ages 
of  man."  Students  of  adult  development 
find  evidence  that  life-cycle  stages  tend  to 
last  about  seven  years— a  figure  resonating 
with  the  folklore  of  the  "seven-year  itch." 
And  the  "Seven  Sisters"  can,  depending 
upon  the  context,  refer  to  a  rose,  a  cactus, 
a  constellation,  a  select  group  of  women's 
colleges,  a  set  of  antitrust  laws  enacted  by 


MAY  1984       XIII 


Woodrow  Wilson  when  he  was  New  Jer- 
sey governor,  or  to  seven  cannon  used  by 
the  Scots  against  the  English  at  Flodden 
Field.  Nineteenth-century  critic  John  Rus- 
kin  called  one  of  his  tomes  The  Seven 
Lamps  of  Architecture.  Why  seven?  Ap- 
parently because  it  sounded  right.  In  a  note 
to  a  later  edition,  he  confessed  he'd  had 
trouble  "keeping  my  Seven  Lamps  from 
becoming  Eight— or  Nine— or  even  quite  a 
vulgar  row  of  foot  lights." 

Something  in  the  human  mind,  it  seems, 
loves  nothing  so  much  as  to  group  things 
by  sevens.  Indeed,  in  memory-span  tests, 
people  seem  able  to  recall  just  about  seven 
digits  (telephone  numbers,  for  example), 
seven  letters  or  seven  random  words.  The 
result  is  so  predictable,  the  number  so  re- 
current, that  psychologist  George  Miller 
devoted  a  paper  to  the  phenomenon,  "The 
Magical  Number  Seven,  Plus  or  Minus 
Two."  "I  have  been  persecuted  by  an  inte- 
ger," he  wrote.  "For  seven  years  this  num- 
ber has  followed  me  around,  has  intruded 
in  my  most  private  data,  and  has  assaulted 
me  from  the  pages  of  our  most  public  jour- 
nals. [There  is]  a  design  behind  it,  some 
pattern  governing  its  appearances." 

Why  Seven's  hold  on  the  imagination? 
Why  was  it  considered  sacred  by  Egypt- 
ians, Assyrians,  Persians,  and  the  Vedic 
people  of  India,  to  name  just  a  few?  Some 
say  it  derives  from  worship  of  the  seven 
ancient  heavenly  bodies— sun,  moon,  and 
the  five  then-known  planets.  Others  point 
out  that  Seven  is  composed  of  numbers 
Three  and  Four,  themselves  considered  sa- 
cred. Perhaps  more  telling  is  that  Seven 
has  so  few  ties  to  any  of  the  other  digits,  is 


a  multiple  of  none  of  them,  stands  alone. 

"Seven  is  a  good  handy  figure  in  its 
way,  picturesque,  with  a  savor  of  the 
mythical,"  Thomas  Mann  wrote  in  The 
Magic  Mountain.  "One  might  say  that  it  is 
more  filling  to  the  spirit  than  a  dull  aca- 
demic half  dozen." 

0  Inscribed  on  the  wall  of  a  temple 
near  Gwalior  in  central  India  ap- 
pears a  zero.  A  particular  flower 
garden  was  to  be  270  units  long; 
the  270  is  recognizable  even  today.  Re- 
corded nine  centuries  after  Christ,  that 
zero  is  the  earliest  such  marking  ever 
found. 

No  zero  figures  in  the  original  Babylo- 
nian sexagesimal  system.  Theirs  was  like 
ours  in  that  the  equivalent  of  77  meant 
•seven  tens  plus  seven  units.  But  lacking  a 
zero,  707  would  be  written,  say,  like  770; 
the  context,  presumably,  determined 
which  applied.  Around  300  B.C.  appeared 
a  new  symbol— two  small  slanted  wedges: 
It  could  indicate  something  missing  within 
a  number,  but  couldn't  distinguish  be- 
tween, say,  770  and  77. 

In  its  early  forms,  the  first  true  zero  was 
closer  to  a  dot— perhaps  the  source  of  our 
ellipsis  (.  .  .),  the  symbol  used  to  indicate 
omitted  text.  The  zero  symbol  may  be  an 
abbreviation  for  the  Greek  word  ouden, 
meaning  "nothing."  The  word  zero  goes 
back  to  the  Arabic  sifr,  "empty"— which 
is  also  the  source  of  our  "cipher,"  which 
can  be  used  to  mean  a  "nothing"  of  a  per- 
son, a  nonentity. 

The  destruction  wrought  by  a  bomb  is 
typically   measured  at  various  distances 


from  "Ground  Zero."  More  generally, 
Zero  represents  the  point  from  which  reck- 
oning begins.  It  can  be,  and  often  is,  arbi- 
trary. Thus,  Zero  on  the  Celsius  scale  is 
simply  the  temperature  at  which  water 
freezes;  below  Zero  lies  a  whole  range  of 
minus  values.  Thermodynamics  calcula- 
tions use  the  less  arbitrary  Kelvin  scale, 
based  on  an  "absolute  zero"  at  which  all 
molecular  motion  ceases. 

"Formal  instruction  is  necessary  for  the 
development  of  a  true  understanding  of 
Zero  as  a  number,"  conclude  Rochel 
Gelman  and  C.R.  Gallistel  in  The  Child's 
Understanding  of  Number;  to  the  average 
child,  in  other  words,  Zero  represents  an 
intellectual  obstacle.  "The  historical  rec- 
ord ...  makes  it  clear  that  the  human  mind 
is  loath  to  include  Zero  with  the  other  rep- 
resentations of  numerosity,"  they  write;  it 
was  not  accepted  as  a  number  in  Western 
culture  until  the  Renaissance. 

And  not  completely,  it  seems,  even 
then.  Wrote  one  educated  Frenchman  in 
the  15th  century:  "Just  as  the  rag  doll 
wanted  to  be  an  eagle,  the  donkey  a  lion, 
and  the  monkey  a  queen,  the  cifra  put  on 
airs  and  pretended  to  be  a  digit." 

2  Computers  store  and  manipulate 
information  through  a  network  of 
electronic  "gates."  Each  can  be  ei- 
ther closed— represented  by  a 
Zero— or  opened— by  a  One.  Such  a  bi- 
nary, or  base  two,  number  system  was  first 
introduced  to  the  West  by  the  German 
mathematician  Leibniz  in  1703.  Though 
"regarded  with  the  greatest  affection  by  its 
inventor  ...  it  appears,"  as  one  account 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


I ^ffi^W  


has  it,  "to  have  been  received  with  entire 
indifference"  by  everyone  else.  Crude 
forms  of  a  binary  system  are  known 
among  certain  Australian  and  Polynesian 
tribes.  In  New  Guinea,  for  example,  ura- 
pun  is  One,  okosa  Two.  Five  is  okosa 
okosa  urapun,  meaning  two-two-one.  And 
soon. 

In  772?  Soul  of  a  New  Machine,  Tracy 
Kidder  tells  how  the  computer  whose  de- 
velopment he  chronicles  "took  its  first  ma- 
terial form  on  paper— in  a  fat  volume  of 
pages  filled  up  with  line  after  line  of  O's 
and  1  "s."  Today  the  binary  system  is  ubiq- 
uitous, and  the  symbols  0  and  1  often 
serve  as  symbols  for  Off  and  On. 

Off,  or  On.  Yes,  or  No.  This  way,  or 
that.  Opposites,  contradictions,  ambiva- 
lence—this is  Two  territory. 

Two's  great  virtue  is  that  it  ends  the 
loneliness  of  One,  as  in  the  bonds  of  mar- 
riage or,  more  generally,  the  act  of  cou- 
pling. "Two  are  an  army  against  one." 
"One's  two  few,  three  too  many."  "Two  in 
distress  make  sorrow  less."  All  these  re- 
flect the  happy  grouping  Two  can  be.  Two 
is  a  back-up,  a  precaution  against  the  loss 
of  one.  Most  of  the  organs  of  the  body 
occur  in  pairs,  kidneys  and  lungs  as  well 
as  hands  and  feet.  Two  is  Yin  and  Yang, 
male  and  female,  the  number  of  fruitful 
cooperation:  "Two  heads  are  better  than 
one." 

But  there's  another,  troubling  side  to 
Two;  the  cooperation  isn't  always  fruitful, 
the  coupling  not  always  happy.  "Two  dogs 
seldom  agree  over  one  bone,"  goes  the  old 
saw.  "It  takes  two  to  make  a  quarrel,"  runs 
another.  Two  speaks  of  irreconcilable  op- 


posites, of  black  and  white,  of  the  hostile 
lawyer's  relentless  insistence  on  a  "yes  or 
no  answer."  Indeed,  Two  in  German  is 
zwei,  derived  from  the  same  root  as  Zwist, 
which  means  strife  or  discord.  Our  words 
despair,  dispute,  and  even  duel  are  all,  dis- 
tantly and  etymologically,  Two-words. 

During  the  early  medieval  period,  Two 
was  actually  regarded  as  evil,  writes 
Christopher  Butler  in  Number  Symbolism, 
in  part  because  it  "represents  divisibility,  a 
breaking  away  from  unity."  Two  cries  out, 
it  would  seem,  to  be  rid  of  part  of  itself 
and  so  achieve  Oneness,  or  else  for  a  third 
to  join  it.  Either  way,  it  is  potentially  in- 
complete or  unstable.  It  is  the  Hegelian 
dialectic  of  Thesis  and  Antithesis  without 
the  higher  Synthesis  that  can  resolve  its 
tensions  and  contradictions. 

Two  is  the  number  of  ambivalence,  of 
"two  sides  to  every  coin."  It  delivers  a 
one-two  punch,  leaves  one  "waiting  for 
the  other  shoe  to  drop,"  the  ironic  or  bitter- 
sweet twist:  "Two  lawyers  can  live  in  a 
town  where  one  cannot."  Or,  as  in  this 
from  George  Bernard  Shaw,  "There  are 
two  tragedies  in  life:  One  is  not  to  get  your 
heart's  desire.  The  other  is  to  get  it." 

Two  is  a  number  on  edge,  ill  at  ease.  Is 
it  even— as  in  second  class,  Second  City, 
second  best— insecure? 

3  No  matter  that  Aramis,  Athos, 
Porthos,  and  D'Artagnan  come,  in 
all,  to  four— Dumas  called  his  ac- 
count of  their  adventures  The 
Three  Musketeers. 

Both  Seven  and  Three  make  for  natural 
groupings,  but  whereas  groups  of  Seven 


evoke  the  mystical,  groups  of  Three  seem 
satisfying  and  complete,  suggestive  of  a 
beginning,  middle,  and  end.  All  guten 
Dinge  sind  drei,  say  the  Germans:  "All 
good  things  are  three." 

Gaul  was  divided  into  three  parts.  The 
blind  mice  of  the  nursery  rhyme  number 
three.  Voltaire,  in  Candide,  spoke  of  three 
great  evils:  boredom,  vice,  and  need. 
Critic  John  Ruskin  counted  three  things 
people  need  to  be  happy  at  work  ("They 
must  be  fit  for  it  .  .  .  not  do  too  much  of  it 
.  .  .  have  a  sense  of  success  in  it.")  The 
Talmud  is  replete  with  folkloric  trinities, 
like  the  three  weakening  agents  (fear, 
travel,  sin),  or  the  three  maladies  reme- 
died by  the  consumption  of  dates  (a  trou- 
bled mind,  constipation,  and  hemor- 
rhoids). Platform  speakers  learn  to  leave 
their  audiences  with  three  main  points. 
And  writers  know,  or  sense,  the  natural 
rhythm  of  threes,  as  in  "a  loaf  of  bread,  a 
jug  of  wine,  and  thou."  (Three  also  gives 
us  our  word  "trivial."  Of  the  original 
seven  liberal  arts,  four  were  grouped  to- 
gether as  the  quadrivium,  for  which  the 
trivium  of  grammar,  rhetoric,  and  dialectic 
was  the  basic,  easily  mastered  prerequi- 
site.) 

In  antiquity,  pagan  peoples  worshipped 
triads  of  gods.  In  Babylonia,  they  were 
Ana,  Bel,  and  Ea,  and  in  Egypt,  Isis, 
Osiris,  and  Horus.  The  universe  was  di- 
vided into  heaven,  earth,  and  the  abyss, 
and  the  three  deities  each  ruled  one  divi- 
sion. On  this  historical  scale,  the  Christian 
Trinity  comes  late.  (The  term  itself  was 
introduced  by  Tertullian,  about  270  A.D.) 
One  scholar  of  number  symbolism,  V.F. 


MAY  1984       XV 


Hopper,  sees  the  Trinity  as  an  outgrowth 
of  Pythagorean  thought:  "The  presence  of 
divine  triads  in  all  the  Gnostic  creeds  was 
certainly  a  determining  factor  in  the  crea- 
tion of  the  Trinity,  but  the  underlying  Py- 
thagorean basis  of  contemporary  philoso- 
phy necessitated  the  doctrine.  That  the 
Father  and  Son  were  one  was  questionable 
upon  numerical  as  well  as  philosophical 
grounds.  But  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Spirit 
were  unquestionably  One  by  very  virtue  of 
being  Three." 

In  the  Pythagorean  view,  Three— not 
One  or  Two— was  the  first  real  number, 
because  it  suggested  the  triangle,  the  first 
plane  figure.  (Any  polygon,  for  example, 
can  be  broken  into  triangles;  such  triangu- 
lation  is  a  means  of  surveying  and  navigat- 
ing.) The  Pythagorean  three-phase  crea- 
tion story,  incidentally,  shows  clear  ties  to 
the  Hegelian  dialectic  of  Thesis,  Antithe- 
sis, and  Synthesis:  First,  a  kind  of  undif- 
ferentiated Unity;  then  its  separation  into 
two  opposing  powers  to  create  the  world 
order;  finally,  the  union  of  those  opposites 
to  generate  life. 

To  be  sure.  Three's  aura  of  sufficiency  has 
been  known  to  get  out  of  hand.  The  expres- 
sion "The  Three  Tailors  of  Tooley  Street," 
for  example,  refers  to  any  small  body  of  men 
who  claim  to  represent  many— from  their 
petition  to  Parliament  that  began,  "We,  the 
People  of  England  .  .  ." 

11s  One  a  real  number? 
Euclid  didn't  think  so.  Neither 
did  the  Pythagoreans,  although  for 
them  it  was  the  divine  source  of  all 
numbers.  In  the  Middle  Ages,  One  was 


described  as  radix  universi  numeri  et  extra 
numerum,  meaning  "the  root  of  every 
number  and  yet  itself  no  number." 

English  distinguishes  between  One  and 
"an"  or  "a."  The  Germans,  in  most  of 
their  dialects,  do  not;  High  German  "can 
convey  the  numerical  sense  of  ein  ('one') 
only  by  inflection  in  speech,"  writes  Karl 
Menninger  in  Number  Words  and  Number 
Symbols.  One's  problem,  he  goes  on,  is 
that  it  "conceals  within  itself  no  plurality 
which  it  collects  together  into  unity,  and 
since  it  is  in  this  that  the  essence  of  num- 
ber lies,  [by  this  thinking  One]  is  not  a 
number."  It  took  a  Renaissance  mathema- 
tician named  Stevin  to  prove  it  was:  Take 
any  number  from  a  given  number  and  the 
latter  decreases;  to  this  rule,  One  was  no 
exception,  thus  qualifying  as  a  true  num- 
ber. 

"One  is  the  loneliest  number,"  as  the 
song  lyric  says.  Yet  One  suggests,  too,  the 
proud,  self-reliant  individual— complete 
unto  himself,  alone  against  Fate,  or  the 
odds,  or  society— a  romantic,  robustly 
American  type.  The  two  images  fuse  in 
the  "loneliness  of  command"  of  the  ship's 
captain,  or  in  Gary  Cooper  defending  his 
town  alone  in  High  Noon. 

Despite  the  price  it  exacts,  One  remains 
highly  coveted.  To  be  Number  One  is 
longed  for  by  athletic  teams,  corporate  ex- 
ecutives, and  Nobel-seeking  scientists 
alike.  One  suggests  purity,  something 
even  more  perfectly  refined  than  the  "99 
and  44/100ths  percent  pure"  of  the  old 
Ivory  soap  commercials.  Sex,  at  its  best, 
fuses  Two  into  One,  achieves  oneness  or 
union.  This  ultimate  One  is  the  goal,  too, 


of  scientists,  philosophers,  and  other  truth 
seekers:  Today's  physicists,  for  example, 
have  successfully  identified  the  four  fun- 
damental forces  of  nature,  yet  strive  to 
fashion  a  unified  field  theory  that  will  suc- 
cessfully resolve  those  forces  into  a  single, 
grand  Force. 

One's  symbolic  significance  goes  back 
to  the  earliest  societies.  One  was,  to  every 
early  culture,  the  First  Cause,  the  Creator, 
the  Prime  Mover.  The  first  monotheists, 
the  Jews,  say  in  the  most  sacred  of  their 
prayers,  "Hear,  O  Israel,  the  Lord  our 
God,  the  Lord  is  One."  For  the  Zuni  Indi- 
ans of  the  American  Southwest,  the  word 
for  one  was  topinte,  meaning  "taken  to 
start  with."  Eastern  religions  characteristi- 
cally deny  a  split  among  the  parts  of  the 
universe,  subsuming  them  all  under  a  sin- 
gle cosmic  consciousness  or  Universal 
Oneness.  The  Babylonians  called  their  god 
of  heaven  Anu,  "the  Divine  One."  The 
Egyptians  had  the  same  idea,  calling  their 
god  of  heaven  Ra,  "the  one  One." 

All  of  which  can  be  hard  to  get  a  handle 
on.  One  is  a  number,  yet  unlike  other  num- 
bers. It  encourages  paradoxes,  as  in  Ben 
Jonson's  line,  "One  is  more  than  a  multi- 
tude." Formulations  of  spiritual  Oneness 
risk  slipping  into  gibberish.  The  cosmic 
amorphousness  of  One  clamors  for  a  vol- 
ley of  Woody  Allen  one-liners.  Every- 
thing, One  is  just  one  step  away  from  be- 
ing Nothing. 

Robert  Kanigel  is  a  Baltimore  free-lancer 
who  has  written  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium  on  such  topics  as  mentors,  the 
placebo  effect,  and  the  Brooklyn  Bridge. 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


GETTING  INTO 
THE  ACT 

The  Alumni  Admissions  Program  gives  real  meaning  to  the  term 
"alumni  service" — in  your  own  back  yard. 

ByWalterJ.Bank,'46EE 


UPometimes,   we  actually  encourage 

0  high  school  students  not  to  apply  for 
admission  to  WPI,"  reports  one  alumni 
volunteer  active  in  the  Alumni  Admissions 
Program. 

This,  at  a  time  when  the  number  of  1 8- 
year-olds  is  falling  fast? 

This,  when  the  competition  for  the  up- 
per crust  of  quality  high-school  students  is 
straining  the  recruiting  budget  of  every 
college? 

This,  in  a  buyer's  market  for  education? 

"Absolutely,"  says  Rene  Bertrand,  '57 
CH,  who  serves  as  the  Union  (New  Jer- 
sey) area  chairman  for  the  program.  "We 
try  to  turn  high-school  students'  inquiries 
about  WPI  into  applications  for  admission. 
Naturally,  we  try  to  steer  the  best  candi- 
dates toward  WPI,  but  to  encourage  a  pro- 
spective art  or  anthropology  major,  for  ex- 
ample, to  apply  would  only  waste  their 
energies,  as  well  as  WPI's— and  my— 
time." 

Bertrand  is  one  of  some  400  alumni  in 
31  areas  nationwide  who  are  active  in  the 
Alumni  Admissions  Program.  The  role  of 
these  volunteers,  says  Roy  Seaberg,  Jr., 
'56  ME,  Director  of  Admissions,  is  vital 
to  the  college,  for  Seaberg 's  professional 
staff  numbers  just  five.  "We  count  on 
alumni  to  provide  applicants  for  admis- 
sion—more than  2,300  last  year— and  for 
the  kind  of  personal  contact  and  cultiva- 
tion necessary  for  a  viable  admissions  pro- 
gram." 

If  current  demographic  projections  come 
true,  by  1992  the  number  of  high-school 
seniors  across  the  country  will  dwindle  by 


Walter  J.  Bank,  '46  EE,  heads  the  Alumni 
Admissions  Program  at  WPI. 

25  percent.  And  the  impact  on  the  North- 
east will  be  even  more  dramatic.  The 
shortfall  could  reach  40  percent  here.  For 
colleges  like  WPI,  which  historically  has 
drawn  70  percent  of  its  freshmen  from 
Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island  and  Con- 
necticut, such  a  shift  could  be  disastrous. 

Why  not  simply  recruit  more  aggres- 
sively in  the  Sun  Belt  states?  ask  many. 
There,  the  shrinkage  will  likely  be  much 
less  significant.  Some  colleges  have  re- 
sorted to  this  tactic,  but  research  shows 
that  relatively  few  18-year-olds  from  the 
South  and  Southwest  are  opting  for  "Snow 
Belt"  colleges,  choosing  to  continue  their 
studies  in  areas  other  than  in  the  North- 
east. 

So,  anticipating  all  this,  and  rather  than 
throwing  good  money  after  bad,  the  Ad- 
missions Office,  in  conjunction  with  the 
Alumni  Office,  eight  years  ago  initiated  a 
program  that  brings  one  of  WPI's  most  en- 
thusiastic and  energetic  resources— its 
alumni— into  direct  and  ongoing  contact 
with  high-school  students  who  have  shown 


interest  in  attending  WPI.  For  the  first 
time,  alumni  became  active  in  the  pre-ap- 
plication  phase  of  the  year-long  recruiting 
process.  Before,  they  had  interviewed 
only  those  secondary  school  students  who 
had  already  submitted  applications. 

The  new  arrangement  brought  the  pro- 
gram more  vitality.  It  also  provided  greater 
challenges  for  alumni— and  higher  risks 
for  the  college.  For  now,  volunteers  were 
on  the  front  line  of  WPI's  recruiting  ef- 
forts, generating  applicants  rather  than  ac- 
ceptees,  responding  to  the  really  tough 
questions  about  WPI  and  engineering  and 
science.  "So  often,"  says  Seaberg,  "it's 
that  initial  contact,  that  first  impression, 
that  turns  an  1 8-year-old  either  on  or  off  to 
a  particular  college." 

"The  risk  has  paid  off.  No  question 
about  it,"  says  Kay  Reynolds,  Assistant 
Director  of  Admissions  and  Coordinator 
of  the  Program.  "Here's  a  way,"  she  says 
candidly,  "for  alumni  to  show  their  sup- 
port for  WPI  in  ways  other  than  financial. 
It  takes  a  special  kind  of  person  to  dedicate 
enough  time  to  call  or  write  to  the  five  to 
ten  high-school  students  we  assign  to  each 
volunteer." 

Plus,  she  says,  many  volunteers  attend 
college  nights  at  their  local  high  schools. 
Here  volunteers  spread  the  word  about 
WPI,  the  Plan,  housing  and  costs,  social 
life  and,  just  as  importantly,  what  it's  like 
to  study  toward  and  work  at  a  career  in 
technology  or  science.  "Some  students," 
says  one  volunteer,  "are  surprised  that 
they  needn't  go  all  the  way  into  Boston— 
as  we  used  to  have  to  do— for  concerts, 
shopping  and  other  social  events.  There 


MAY  1984       35 


• 


1 


are  a  lot  of  myths  about  Worcester  that  we 
try  to  dispel." 

According  to  Raymond  Lambert.  '79 
ME.  who  is  chairman  for  the  Springfield 
(MA)  area.  "WPI's  educational  program 
strikes  many  students  and  their  parents  as. 
well,  mysterious  at  first."  Parents,  espe- 
cially, he  says,  are  curious  about  student 
projects— whether  there's  faculty  guid- 
ance, who  chooses  topics,  and  whether 
there's  a  core  curriculum.  "The  literature 
we  give  them  and  the  training  we  receive 
from  WPI— and.  of  course,  our  own  expe- 
riences—help us  answer  these  inquiries." 

Typically,  volunteers  follow  up  such  en- 
counters with  phone  calls  to  students  who 
have  shown  further  interest  in  WPI  or  who 
have  been  identified  by  the  college  or 
other  sources  as  potential  candidates  for 
admission.  Lambert  has  also  visited  his 
own  high  school,  sitting  down  with  stu- 
dents to  review  their  applications,  to  ad- 
vise them  on  how  to  handle  the  college 
interview— which  WPI  recommends 
strongly  for  all  applicants— and  just  to  chat 
about  WPI.  "Anything  we  can  do  to  make 
the  interview  more  personal  and  informal 


is  a  step  in  the  right  direction."  he  asserts, 
and  adds.  "It's  a  good  feeling  when  you 
know  you've  had  a  hand  in  charting  a 
young  person's  future,  and  knowing  that 
the  college  is  benefitting,  too." 

Naturally,  says  Paige  Axtell,  not  all 
alumni  volunteers  studied  under  the 
Plan.  As  Assistant  Director  of  Alumni 
Relations,  she  plays  an  active  role  in  the 
program  and  preceded  Kay  Reynolds  as  its 
head.  Axtell  believes  that  alumni  volun- 
teers are  especially  well  served  by  the  pro- 
gram, for  their  involvement  gives  them  an 
extensive  overview  of  what's  been  hap- 
pening at  WPI  since  their  times  here. 

"Some  of  the  most  successful  experi- 
ences for  alumni."  she  says,  "are  attend- 
ing college  nights,  acceptance  receptions 
and  other  events  at  which  some  of  WPI's 
most  credible  resources — its  students — 
give  applicants  a  firsthand  idea  of  what 
today's  WPI  educational  program  is  all 
about." 

Dan  Coifman.  '67  ME,  couldn't  agree 
more.  He  heads  the  five-member  Alumni 
Admissions  Program  in  Puerto  Rico,  from 


which,  reports  Roy  Seaberg,  WPI  is  re- 
cruiting students  of  exceptional  quality. 

At  a  San  Juan  reception  for  about  30 
candidates,  Coifman  recalls.  Fernando 
Lopez  de  Victoria,  '86  NE.  told  of  his 
experiences  at  WPI  "with  a  poise,  charac- 
ter and  frankness  that  left  everyone— we 
volunteers  included— with  a  totally  new 
and  positive  impression  of  WPI.  That  kind 
of  support  from  the  college— plus  WPI's 
computerized  information  system  and 
Kay's  newsletters— get  us  the  information 
we  want  when  we  need  it." 

Angela  Ortiz,  '87.  a  biomedical  engi- 
neering major,  met  Coifman  at  one  such 
reception  in  her  native  Puerto  Rico.  As  we 
went  to  press,  she  was  in  the  midst  of  the 
"Hell  Week"  pledging  activities  of  Phi 
Sigma  Sigma  sorority.  But  when  she  met 
Coifman.  she  was  going  through  hell  try- 
ing to  decide  on  a  college. 

"As  I  recall,"  says  Coifman,  "WPI 
wasn't  Angela's  first  choice  initially."  But 
his  follow-up  phone  calls,  reminding  her 


36       WPI  JOURNAL 


. 


r 


of  WPI's  application  deadline  and  simply 
answering  her  questions  about  the  college, 
had  something  to  do  with  her  accepting 
WPI's  offer  to  enroll. 

When  Robert  Kenny,  '87  MGE,  of 
Basking  Ridge,  NJ,  met  Les  Reynolds, 
'50  ME  (Kay  Reynolds's  dad,  by  the 
way),  to  talk  about  WPI,  it  wasn't  at  a 
college  night  or  at  a  hotel  reception,  but  in 
the  comfort  of  Les's  home,  a  few  blocks 
from  Rob's  house.  "After  I'd  applied," 
Rob  remembers,  "Mr.  Reynolds  called 
and  invited  me  over  to  talk  WPI.  The  in- 
formality of  this  meeting— unlike  inter- 
views with  alumni  from  other  schools- 
impressed  me,  and  Mr.  Reynolds  was  so 
enthusiastic  about  his  alma  mater." 

We  know  from  a  recent  study  that  in- 
volving alumni  in  student  recruitment 
has  a  positive  impact  on  the  quality  of  the 
applicant  pool,  the  geographical  distribu- 
tion of  applicants  and  the  overall  aware- 
ness of  WPI  among  applicants. 

The  most  significant  achievements, 
however,  are  harder  to  measure.  The  per- 


sonal touch  WPI  volunteers  exhibit  to  high 
school  students  and  their  parents  seems  to 
make  a  difference.  Through  their  contacts 
with  high  school  guidance  counselors  and 
teachers,  alumni  have  helped  to  inform 
these  "significant  others"  in  the  lives  of 
prospective  students  of  WPI's  educational 
opportunities.  Alumni  also  share  their  own 
perceptions  on  a  profession  or  career  and 
thus  can  help  students  in  selecting  a  career 
path. 

These  effects  are  most  apparent  in  areas 
in  which  WPI  is  less  known.  Though  she 
grew  up  along  the  upper  Hudson  River  in 
New  York,  an  area  that  is  no  stranger  to 
quality  colleges  of  engineering  and  sci- 
ence, Connie  Keefe,  '86  CE.  knew  little 
about  WPI  when  she  sent  away  to  Worces- 
ter for  a  college  catalog.  (Her  home  town, 
Tillson,  she  explains,  is  "a  2-by-4  town- 
it's  only  on  the  Hess  Oil  maps,"  and  is  best 
known  for  the  indigenous  Rosendale  ce- 
ment that  went  into  the  foundation  of  the 
Statue  of  Liberty.) 

The  perceptions  she  gained  and  the  per- 
sonal treatment  she  received  as  a  result  of 


an  alumnus  contacting  her  made  her  think 
twice  about  WPI.  "This,  and  a  two-day 
stay  on  campus  with  another  WPI  student 
from  New  York,  relieved  my  apprehen- 
sion about  the  Plan." 

Alumni  Admissions  volunteers  are  al- 
ways welcome.  If  you'd  like  to  become 
involved,  please  contact  Kay  Reynolds  or 
Katie  Rensky  of  the  Admissions  Office. 
Or  if  you  come  across  a  news  item  of  a 
serious  high-school  student  you  think 
might  be  interested  in  the  kind  of  educa- 
tion you  received  as  an  undergraduate,  we 
need  to  hear  from  you. 

Just  think,  high-school  students  might 
even  call  you  out  of  the  blue  with  ques- 
tions about  WPI,  as  one  did  Rene 
Bertrand.  Imagine  his  delight  when  a 
squeaky-voiced  ninth  grader  wanted  to 
know  about  WPI's  early  admission  accept- 
ance policy.  Now  that's  initiative. 

Walter  J.  Bank,  National  Chairman  of  the 
Alumni  Admissions  Program,  is  Director 
of  Marketing  for  DCS  Corporation  in 
Arlington,  VA. 


MAY  1984       37 


WPI  CIASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Harry  W.  Tenney,  '56 
Senior  Vice  President, 

Donald  E.  Ross,  '54 
Vice  President, 

Paul  W.  Bayliss.  '60 
Secretary-Treasurer, 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 
Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank,  '46 
William  J.  Firla,  Jr.,  '60 
JohnM.  McHugh, '56 

Fund  Board 

Gerald  Finkle,  '57,  Chair 

Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59,  Vice  Chair 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56 

Richard  A.  Davis,  '53 

C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39 

Philip  H.  Puddington,  '59 

George  R  Strom,  '56 


1916 


C.  LeRoy  Storms,  who  was  employed  by 
Western  Union  Telegraph  Co.  for  45  years  prior 
to  his  retirement  in  1961,  has  been  active  and 
has  held  various  offices  in  several  organiza- 
tions, including  the  Sons  of  the  American  Rev- 
olution, the  Masons  and  the  Roselle  Historical 
Society.  He  served  on  the  Roselle  Public  Li- 
brary Board  of  Directors  for  20  years. 


1918 


Walter  and  Mary  Dennen  of  Worcester  cele- 
brated their  60th  wedding  anniversary  last  fall 
at  a  reception  given  by  their  son  and  daughter. 
Dennen  is  a  retired  administrator  of  Worcester 
Vocational  Schools.  He  is  a  member  of  the  Ro- 
tary Club,  a  past  president  of  the  Tech  Old- 
Timers  Club,  a  retired  vice  president  of  Bay 
State  Savings  Bank  and  a  former  vice  president 
of  Higgins  Armory. 

Norman  Knowlton  writes  that  he  recently 
had  a  cataract  operation.  His  wife,  Florence, 
passed  away  last  September.  He  has  eleven 
great-grandchildren. 


1924 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Frank  Linsley,  retired  from  Hartford  Electric 
Light,  lives  at  Franklin  Home  Healthcare  in 
Franklin,  MA.  Despite  problems  with  cataracts 
and  arthritis,  Lin  writes  that  he  is  "otherwise  in 
pretty  good  shape." 


1927 


George  Heckman  has  taken  five  trips  to  Eu- 
rope in  recent  years  and  travels  annually  to  Cal- 
ifornia to  see  his  family.  He's  done  3,000  hours 
of  volunteer  work  at  a  Virginia  hospital. 

Charles  Moore's  latest  swimming  record  at 
Cleveland's  Cudell  Recreation  Center  pool  is 
600  miles  between  1971  and  1983. 


1929 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


The  Wayne  Berrys  continue  at  Evergreen 
Woods  Retirement  Center  in  Spring  Hill,  FL. 
Wayne  has  served  on  the  Resident  Council  and 
as  editor  of  The  Evergreen  Woods  News. 

Nathaniel  Clapp,  who  is  now  fully  retired 
due  to  illness,  served  as  a  consultant  to  Metcalf 
&  Eddy  through  1982. 

John  Dobie  and  his  wife  spend  winters  in 
Arizona  and  summers  in  Massachusetts.  He  en- 
joys doing  oil  paintings  in  Arizona.  In  Massa- 
chusetts he  keeps  busy  gardening  and  keeping 
up  the  house  and  grounds.  He  still  likes  taking 
bicycle  rides. 

Gale  Flint  writes  there  was  "a  long  hot  sum- 
mer in  Florida  last  year."  He  likes  Southern 
winters  better  than  Northern  winters,  however. 

In  December,  the  J.  Bernard  Josephs  cele- 
brated their  50th  wedding  anniversary  at  a  party 
in  Auburn,  MA.  Mrs.  Joseph  attended  the  Uni- 
versity of  Maryland  and  is  retired  from  the  li- 
brary department  of  the  Board  of  Education  in 
Prince  George's  County,  MD.  Joseph,  formerly 
an  electronics  engineer  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Materiel  Command,  retired  after  nearly  30 
years  with  the  U.S.  government. 

Dan  Leamy  has  served  as  a  Congressional 
delegate  to  the  White  House  Conference  on  Ag- 
ing. A  resident  of  Camp  Hill,  PA,  he  belongs  to 
the  local  YMCA  Retired  Men's  Club  and  serves 
on  the  executive  board  of  the  Pennsylvania 
Federation  of  YMCA  Retired  Persons  Clubs. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  Commissioner's  Advi- 


sory Board  of  the  County  Office  of  Aging.  A 
member  of  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of  America, 
he  is  coordinator  for  telephone  calling  for  about 
500  retired  persons. 

Since  he  retired  in  1969,  Carl  Robinson  and 
his  wife,  Irene,  spend  the  seven  winter  months 
in  Florida  and  the  summer  on  Cape  Cod.  They 
both  enjoy  good  health  and  drive  their  station 
wagon  to  and  from  Florida  each  year. 

Stan  Slater,  who  retired  as  vice  president  of 
Rumford  Steel  Industries,  Providence,  RI,  in 
1976,  still  actively  consults  "when  it  doesn't 
interfere  with  golf."  He  stays  fit  by  walking  18 
holes. 

Russ  Wiley  writes  that  he's  looking  forward 
to  the  55th  reunion. 


1930 


Sherman  Dane  is  a  tax  accountant  in  Boston. 

Ray  Lewis,  who  resides  in  Arlington,  VA, 
writes  that  one  of  his  most  interesting  activities 
is  participating  in  the  International  Club  of 
Washington,  of  which  he's  been  a  member  for 
14  years.  "I've  gathered  up  some  40  men, 
about  10  of  whom  appear  at  noon  for  lunch  at 
my  'friendship'  table."  The  group  holds  wide- 
ranging  discussions  concerning  politics,  world 
affairs  and  foreign  travel.  He  says  something  is 
always  going  on  in  the  Washington  area,  such 
as  activities  on  the  Mall,  jousting  tournaments, 
sailing,  bed  races  and  national  Frisbee  contests. 


1931 


Bob  Barrett  reports  that  he  and  Norinne  have 
been  retired  14  years  and  are  enjoying  condo- 
minium living  in  Florida.  They  find,  as  New 
Englanders,  that  colored  lights  on  palm  trees  at 
Christmas  seem  somewhat  strange. 

Ed  Bayon  continues  working  part  time  with 
Tighe  and  Bond,  Consulting  Engineers.  He  and 
Ruth,  his  wife  of  52  years,  have  nine  grandchil- 
dren, the  first  of  whom  was  married  last  June. 
Ed  serves  on  the  WPI  Alumni  Council. 

Ted  Coe  was  very  excited  about  WPI's  unde- 
feated football  season,  but  incensed  that  the 
team  wasn't  selected  for  the  playoffs.  He  is 
looking  forward  to  having  Norwich  and 
Middlebury  on  future  schedules  so  he  can  es- 
tablish his  "tailgate  parties."  He  and  Mary  Jane 
are  both  well. 

Bill  Dennison  and  his  wife,  Anne,  moved 
from  Orleans,  MA,  last  year  to  a  new  home  in 
Southborough.  In  June,  they  celebrated  their 
50th  wedding  anniversary. 

Mary  and  Wally  Gove  recently  marked  their 


38       WPI  JOURNAL 


50th  wedding  anniversary,  also.  Wally  attends 
Tech  Old-Timers  meetings  regularly  when  they 
are  not  on  their  frequent  trips. 

Ralph  Hodgkinson  is  residing  at  Chapin 
House,  a  nursing  home  at  Kendall  Commons  in 
Springfield,  MA. 

Carl  R\  lander  and  Mary  Louise  took  a  Eu- 
ropean trip  following  the  50th  class  reunion.  In 
'82,  they  returned  to  Europe  to  visit  Ireland  and 
Scandinavia.  The  trip  was  cut  short  when  they 
both  became  ill  in  Ireland.  Currently,  they  are 
well. 

In  1982,  Bob  Taylor  and  his  wife,  Marion, 
moved  from  Spencer  to  Sauquoit,  NY.  This  in- 
volved moving  about  200  cows,  farm  machin- 
ery and  household  effects,  with  the  help  of  their 
son,  Larry.  They  added  a  two-car  garage,  bed- 
room, bath  and  small  office  to  their  "new" 
four-year-old  house. 

The  "Red"  Underbills  have  returned  from  a 
trip  to  Australia,  where  they  visited  their  two 
new  granddaughters  born  "Down  Under"  in 
1983.  Red  suffered  a  heart  attack  last  August, 
and  reports  that  his  wood  chopping  has  been 
restricted. 

Edward  J.  Bayon,  Class  Secretary 


1933 


The  class  of  '33  was  well  represented  by  ten 
members  and  two  wives  at  the  25th  anniversary 
meeting  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers  at  WPI's  Gor- 
don Library  on  Thursday,  Dec.  10.  Members 
came  not  only  from  the  Worcester  area,  but  also 
from  six  different  towns  outside.  Among  them 
were  the  class  president,  secretary,  treasurer 
and  Alumni  Council  representative.  WPI  Presi- 
dent Ed  Cranch  spoke  to  the  group  about  col- 
lege plans  for  the  future. 

A  Super  Bowl  XVIII  party  held  on  January 
22  at  the  home  of  Barbara  and  Al  Brownlee 
was  attended  by  Ed  Johnson,  Gert  and  Norm 
Clark,  Gale  and  Warren  Saltmarsh  and  Bobbi 
and  George  Lyman. 

Norm  Clark,  long  an  active  alumni  sup- 
porter of  WPI,  was  appointed  by  class  president 
George  Lyman  to  serve  on  the  Alumni  Coun- 
cil. 

Millicent  Hammer,  widow  of  our  late  class 
president,  Harold  "Tack"  Hammer,  is  recov- 
ering satisfactorily  from  shoulder  surgery.  She 
was  pleased  to  receive  a  visit  at  her  home  in 
Florida  from  Norm  Clark,  who  presented  her 
with  pictures  of  our  50th  reunion.  She  also  ap- 
preciated receiving  a  copy  of  the  reunion  souve- 
nir booklet,  which  contained  a  dedication  in 
memory  of  her  husband. 

Ed  Johnson  reports  that  Gil  Gustafson  is  in 
poor  health  and  was  recently  admitted  to  the 
Brookview  Health  Care  Facility  in  West  Hart- 
ford, CT.  His  friends  from  '33  wish  him  a 
quick  recovery. 

Jerry  Vail  recently  returned  from  a  two- 
week  trip  to  Yugoslavia. 

Al  Brownlee,  Class  Secretary 


1934 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Charles  Bissell  and  his  wife  returned  in  Febru- 
ary from  two  months  at  Anna  Maria,  FL,  dur- 


ing which  time  they  had  several  visits  with 
David  Morely,  '36.  They  plan  a  return  trip 
next  year.  Charlie  retired  in  1978  and  spends 
his  time  gardening  and  sailing.  During  the  win- 
ter, the  Bissells  travel. 

Luther  Leavitt  recently  received  a  silver 
good-citizenship  medal,  from  the  National  So- 
ciety of  the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution, 
and  the  New  England  Society  Heritage  Award. 
The  first  award  recognized  his  service  to  the 
Society  at  local,  state  and  national  levels,  as 
well  as  to  his  church,  his  alma  mater  and  his 
city.  The  second  recognized  his  efforts  to  pre- 
serve the  New  England  spirit  in  the  Western 
Reserve.  Leavitt,  who  received  the  Taylor 
Award  in  1974,  has  been  involved  in  a  variety 
of  WPI  alumni  activities.  He  resides  in  Cleve- 
land. 

Howard  Whittum,  Class  Secretary 


1935 


Bob  Branch  runs  a  resort  in  Boothbay  Harbor, 
ME,  which  includes  a  hotel,  tennis  courts  and 
sailboats.  Previously,  he  did  engineering  work 
and  served  in  the  Navy.  He  sees  Gordon 
("Speed")  Swift  occasionally  in  Northampton, 
MA,  where  each  has  a  winter  home. 

Ed  Clinton  is  president  of  the  Connecticut 
chapter  of  the  American  Gloxinia  and  Gesne- 
riad  Society.  He  and  his  wife,  Mary,  grow  prize 
flowers.  The  Clintons,  who  have  traveled 
widely,  saw  the  volcano  Kilauea  start  to  erupt 
on  a  trip  to  Hawaii.  In  1978,  Ed  retired  from 
Bassick  Co.,  Bridgeport,  CT,  following  25 
years  of  service.  His  final  assignment  was 
heading  the  task  force  concerned  with  expand- 
ing Bassick 's  computer  capacity  to  include  pro- 
duction control  and  costs. 

For  33  years,  Sam  Ehrlich  was  in  the  explo- 
sives manufacturing  business  (Winchester  Re- 
peating Arms  Co.)  and  came  through  without  a 
scratch,  although  once  a  too-close  lightning 
storm  nearly  did  him  in.  While  with  WRA,  he 
developed  a  safe,  patented  process  for  testing  of 
the  substances  used  in  ammunition  primer  mix- 
tures. 

From  1961  until  his  retirement  from  govern- 
ment service  in  1973,  Ken  Linell  was  chief  of 
the  Experimental  Engineering  Division,  the 
U.S.  Army  Cold  Regions  Research  and  Engi- 
neering Laboratory  (CRREL)  in  Hanover,  NH. 
Earlier,  he  was  chief  of  the  New  England  Divi- 
sion Foundation  and  Materials  Branch  and  of 
the  Frost  Effects  Laboratory  of  the  Corps  of 
Engineers  in  Boston.  An  expert  in  his  field,  he 
has  had  books  and  articles  published,  some  of 
which  describe  hazardous  soil  and  permafrost 
surveys  in  the  Arctic.  He  was  a  civilian  em- 
ployee of  the  Army  for  37  years. 

Cliff  Martinka  has  built  a  home  in  Wi- 
comico Church,  VA,  which  looks  out  over 
Chesapeake  Bay.  "We  have  a  dock  right  in 
front  of  the  house." 

Roland  Nims,  who  is  recovering  from  emer- 
gency surgery  to  correct  a  ruptured  aortal  aneu- 
rysm, says  he  plans  to  attend  the  50th  reunion. 

In  1981 ,  Samson  Lincoln  Price,  now  known 
as  "Line,"  went  into  semi-retirement  as  vice 
president  from  a  firm  he  helped  to  found, 
Seabury-Bottorf  Associates,  Winter  Park,  FL. 
The  company  was  concerned  with  the  design  of 
citrus  concentrate  plants.  Previously,  he  had 
been  vice  president  of  Fiske-Gay  Associates  in 


Orlando,  consulting  engineers  and  architects. 
After  World  War  II,  he  owned  Acme  Electric 
Heating  of  Boston,  before  returning  to  consult- 
ing. Other  firms  with  which  he  was  associated 
were  Wheeler  Reflector  Company,  Hanson, 
MA;  King-Seeley,  Ann  Arbor,  MI;  and  Wal- 
tham  (MA)  Watch  Company.  Although  retired. 
Line  still  consults  on  private  water  systems  and 
wastewater  disposal  projects. 

Charlie  Puffer  and  his  wife,  Jane,  are 
pleased  that  their  children  all  live  within  15 
miles  of  their  summer  home  in  Fiskdale,  MA. 
(They  have  a  new  grandson.)  During  the  winter 
they  reside  in  Osprey,  FL.  One  of  the  big 
events  of  Charlie's  life  was  making  a  hole-in- 
one  on  their  Florida  golf  course.  Before  retir- 
ing, he  was  a  valve  designer  for  Chapman 
Valve  Mfg.  Co.  Interested  in  clean-water  stand- 
ards, he  writes,  "We  obtained  one  of  the  first 
EPA  grants  given  to  preserve  the  water  quality 
of  a  lake  (Big  Alum,  MA)  rather  than  correct  it 
after  the  fact." 

Lionel  Reed  has  been  fully  retired  since 
1966.  He  had  dealt  with  real  estate  and  securi- 
ties. His  chemical-engineering  career  ended  in 
1964  when  he  retired  as  assistant  vice  president 
with  Schwartz  Bio  Research  Inc. 

Homer  Morrison,  Class  Secretary 


1936 


Since  Perry  Clark  has  retired  from  his  real- 
estate  brokerage  business  in  the  Virgin  Islands 
and  moved  to  Columbia,  SC,  he  has  been  in- 
volved with  the  Army  Check  Control  Program. 
"The  Army  takes  a  dim  view  of  bad  checks," 
he  writes.  He  also  has  been  a  volunteer  instruc- 
tor at  Fort  Jackson.  In  addition,  he  is  a  volun- 
teer counselor  for  SCORE. 

Earl  Curtis  goes  to  an  exercise  class  at  the  Y 
from  6:45  a.m.  to  7:15  a.m.  He  says  he  also 
swims  and  jogs  a  little.  His  second  granddaugh- 
ter was  born  last  Sept.  3.  His  older  granddaugh- 
ter is  now  1 1 .  In  addition  to  being  involved  with 
the  50th  Anniversary  Fund,  Earl  has  been  ac- 
tive with  church  fund-raising. 

Last  spring,  the  James  Ethiers  took  a  trip  to 
the  Holy  Land  with  a  Methodist  group.  The 
highlight  was  attending  a  Mass  at  the  "beautiful 
Church  of  the  Annunciation  in  Nazareth."  On 
the  way  home,  they  spent  a  few  days  in  Hol- 
land. In  October,  they  took  a  Dalmatian  tour 
starting  out  in  Vienna,  then  going  through  Hun- 
gary into  Yugoslavia.  They  also  went  to  Italy 
and  visited  Sorrento,  Rome  and  Capri.  On  Oct. 
4,  they  had  a  grandson,  David,  who  has  three 
older  sisters. 

The  Thomas  Frarys  spend  their  summers  in 
Martha's  Vineyard,  MA,  and  Peak's  Island, 
ME.  They  work  part  time,  "so  we  keep  out  of 
mischief." 

After  36  years  in  West  Springfield,  MA,  the 
Brewster  Howards  have  sold  their  home  and 
bought  a  condominium  overlooking  the  ocean 
and  tennis  courts  in  Pompano  Beach,  FL. 
Brewster  still  hasn't  fully  retired  from  Ameri- 
can Saw,  to  which  he  commutes  summers  from 
their  cottage  in  Brookfield.  He  says  they  like 
tennis,  swimming  and  warm  weather. 

"Ace"  Howes  finds  that  retirement  is  busy. 
He  lives  in  Sharon,  CT,  in  the  foothills  of  the 
Berkshires,  and  often  finds  himself  on  the  golf 
course.  He  enjoys  his  workshop  and  has  "built 
everything  from  doll  houses  to  castles  and  can't 


MAY  1984       39 


keep  up  with  the  demands  of  my  grandson  and 
granddaughter." 

The  George  Sherwins  don't  have  time  to  get 
bored  living  in  Naples,  FL,  winters.  They  live 
near  two  golf  courses,  and  they  play  tennis, 
shuffleboard,  bingo,  and  duplicate  bridge;  and 
swim  and  sunbathe.  In  the  summer  they  head 
north  to  visit  relatives. 

John  Wyman  was  co-author  of  "An  Opera- 
tional Review  of  Traffic  Data  Collection  Sys- 
tems," which  was  published  in  the  December 
issue  of  the  ITE  Journal.  He  serves  as  director 
of  the  Maine  Facility  Laboratory  (MFAC)  of 
the  Maine  Department  of  Transportation.  Cur- 
rent work  includes  examining  weigh-in-motion 
techniques,  bridge  deflections  under  various 
wind  conditions  and  development  of  automated 
traffic  control  devices. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  Theodore  Wyman 
worked  for  a  steamship  company  on  Nantucket. 
He  took  several  around-the-world  voyages  on 
schooners,  including  one  to  the  Galapagos  Is- 
lands, where  Charles  Darwin  had  studied.  In 
World  War  II,  he  entered  the  Navy  and  went 
through  the  campaigns  of  Tunisia,  Anzio  and 
Normandy.  Later,  he  took  up  painting  at  the 
Vesper  George  School  of  Art.  He  also  was  as- 
sociated with  the  studio  group  of  a  Boston  art- 
ist. He  worked  for  an  engineering  service  in 
Woburn,  then  for  the  planning  department  at 
Massachusetts  General  Hospital.  Following  a 
heart  attack,  he  traveled  around  the  world.  He 
belongs  to  the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolu- 
tion, the  Steamship  Historical  Society  and  the 
Military  Order  of  the  World  Wars. 

Harold  F.  Henrickson,  Class  Secretary 


1938 


Last  year,  Basil  Kimball  went  into  semi-retire- 
ment, his  last  post  having  been  that  of  chief 
engineer  at  Clark  University,  Worcester.  He 
writes,  "Fortunately,  our  children  and  eight 
grandchildren  are  close  enough  to  visit  fre- 
quently." The  Kimballs  reside  in  Westboro. 


1939 


Reunion 


1940 


May31-June3, 1984 


Clyde  Gerald  continues  his  activities  with  the 
Baltimore  Society  of  Model  Engineers  and  the 
Baltimore  Streetcar  Museum.  Last  summer  he 
flew  to  Winnipeg,  Canada,  to  attend  the  Na- 
tional Model  Railroad  Association  convention. 
"My  37th,"  he  writes.  He  also  attended  several 
other  regional  conventions,  as  well  as  the 
Maryland  Steam  Historical  Society  annual 
show.  He  says  he  had  his  "Toonerville  Trol- 
ley" in  Thanksgiving  and  Christmas  parades. 

Donald  Stevens  is  marketing  manager  for  the 
White  &  Bagley  Co.,  Worcester. 


1941 


The  Alex  Davidsons  are  enjoying  "relaxed" 
retirement  in  Red  Bank,  NJ.  They  travel  around 


AWG  Founder  Lunches 
At  the  White  House 


Last  September  22,  50  leaders  of  national 
women's  organizations  were  invited  to  the 
White  House  for  luncheon  to  celebrate 
American  Business  Women's  Day.  Vicki 
Cowart,  '75  PH,  was  one  of  them. 

"At  the  time,  I  was  president  of  the  As- 
sociation for  Women  Geoscientists,"  says 
Cowart,  who  is  now  past  president  of  the 
AWG,  which  she  helped  found  in  1980. 
As  the  first  nationally  elected  president  of 
the  association,  Cowart  recognized  that 
the  White  House  invitation  was  an  unprec- 
edented opportunity  for  AWG  to  interact 
with  members  of  the  administration,  as 
well  as  with  business  leaders. 

"One  of  the  most  exciting  aspects  of  the 
event  was  the  opportunity  I  had  to  meet 
other  leaders  from  women's  business  and 
professional  organizations,"  she  says. 

Cowart  is  a  district  geophysicist  for  the 
American  Quasar  Petroleum  Company  in 
Denver,  CO.  "I'm  currently  responsible 
for  the  geophysics  of  a  $2.8-million  wild- 
cat oil  well  project,  which  could  lead  to 
the  discovery  of  20  million  barrels  of  oil," 
she  says.  Prior  to  joining  Quasar  in  1981, 
she  was  an  exploration  geophysicist  for 
Impel  Energy. 

Cowart,  who  has  an  MS  in  geophysics 
from  Colorado  School  of  Mines,  has  pre- 
sented a  paper,  "Mossbaur  Spectroscopy 


President  Reagan  greets  Vicki  Cowart 

Investigation  of  Clinker  Rocks,"  before 
the  International  Society  of  Exploration 
Geophysics.  Active  with  NOW  and  as  a 
Democratic  fund-raiser,  Cowart  has  also 
taught  geology  in  local  schools.  In  1981, 
she  received  the  AWG  Denver  Outstand- 
ing Leadership  Award  and  was  named  an 
"Outstanding  Young  Woman  of  Amer- 
ica." 


the  country  visiting  their  family  and  take  trips 
to  Europe.  Davidson  spends  most  of  his  time  on 
the  golf  course.  Two  years  ago  he  retired  from 
Du  Pont . 


1942 


W.  Robert  Lotz,  who  just  became  a  national 
trustee  of  the  Amyotrophic  Lateral  Sclerosis 
Society  of  America,  recently  finished  his  term 
as  chairman  of  the  executive  committee  of  the 
National  Association  of  Congregational  Chris- 
tian Churches. 

Robert  Yaeger,  former  director  of  facilities 
systems  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs,  Holmdel,  NJ, 
has  retired  from  Bell  after  41  years.  Currently, 
he  is  residing  in  Winter  Harbor,  ME. 


1943 


John  Huckins  is  retired  and  residing  in  Cha- 
tham, MA.  He  had  been  senior  project  engineer 
for  Chandler  Corp. /Control  Systems  in  West 
Hartford,  CT. 

Behrends  ("Pete")  Messer,  Jr.,  retired 
from  Mobil  in  November  following  38  years  of 
service.  His  last  post  was  manager  of  wholesale 
plant  and  civil  engineering.  Most  of  his  career 
with  Mobil  was  spent  in  engineering  and  proj- 


ect management  activities  that  took  him  to 
many  areas  of  the  Far  East,  Middle  East  and 
Europe,  as  well  as  much  of  North  America. 
Pete  plans  to  keep  himself  occupied  with  golf, 
travel,  woodworking  and  gardening. 

Earl  Page  has  been  appointed  chairman  of 
the  board  of  directors  of  Grinnell  Fire  Protec- 
tion Systems  Co.  Inc.,  Providence,  RI.  With 
the  firm  since  1946,  he  had  been  president  since 
1972. 


1944 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


In  August,  Harold  Blake  retired.  He  had  been 
with  the  Bergen  County  Department  of  Public 
Works,  Hackensack,  NJ.  He  and  his  wife, 
Marge,  now  live  in  Seven  Lakes,  a  resort-re- 
tirement community  in  West  End  "in  the  sand 
hills  of  central  North  Carolina." 

Earl  Harris,  president  of  Rodney  Hunt  Co., 
Orange,  MA,  has  been  elected  to  the  National 
Association  of  Manufacturers'  board  of  direc- 
tors. He  joined  the  firm  in  1946  and  became 
vice  president  and  a  director  in  1947.  In  1952, 
he  was  named  executive  vice  president  and  in 
1956,  president.  Currently,  he  is  a  director  of 
Blue  Shield  of  Massachusetts  and  Wiegand 
Evaporators  and  serves  on  the  executive  com- 
mittee of  the  Business  Advisory  Council, 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


School  of  Management  for  UMass,  Amherst.  A 
trustee  for  the  Orange  Savings  Bank,  he  is  also 
a  member  of  the  World  Business  Council. 


1945 


Bob  Duffy  holds  a  combination  engineering 
and  financial-controls  post  with  the  New  Jersey 
Housing  Finance  Agency  (NJHFA)  in  Mercer- 
ville.  The  agency  finances  senior-citizen  and 
low-income  housing.  In  September,  Bob  and 
his  wife  had  a  "two-week,  five-island  vacation 
in  Hawaii." 

Although  retired,  Charles  Morse,  Jr.,  still 
does  consulting  work  for  his  old  firm,  the 
World  Bank.  Recent  stints  have  taken  him  to 
Kenya  and  Turkey.  Last  year  he  and  his  wife 
went  to  the  Galapagos  Islands. 


1946 


Chas.  T.  Main,  Engineers,  the  Boston-based 
international  engineering  firm,  has  appointed 
Paul  Gorman  president.  Prior  to  his  appoint- 
ment, Paul,  currently  a  director  of  the  corpora- 
tion, had  served  as  the  firm's  executive  vice 
president,  as  group  vice  president  in  charge  of 
engineering  and  design  and  as  vice  president 
and  manager  of  the  thermal-nuclear  power  divi- 
sion. Before  joining  Main  in  1975,  he  was  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  Boston 
office  of  United  Engineers  &  Constructors  Inc. 
He  has  an  MSME  degree  from  Northeastern. 

Art  Rosenguest  is  president  of  Dustvent  Inc. 
He  is  located  in  Arlington  Heights,  IL. 


1948 


Gershon  Kulin  has  received  a  U.S.  Commerce 
Department  bronze  medal  for  contributions  to 
the  open-channel  and  solid-liquid  flow  pro- 
grams at  the  National  Bureau  of  Standards 
(NBS).  He  is  now  a  hydraulic-research  engi- 
neer for  the  NBS  Center  for  Chemical  Engi- 
neering. 

Prescott  Stevens  resides  in  Geneva,  Switzer- 
land. Two  years  ago  he  retired  as  a  consultant  to 
the  World  Health  Organization. 


1949 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Fred  Besselievre,  retired  from  Rockwell  Inter- 
national, now  enjoys  photography  and  identify- 
ing wildflowers.  He  also  maintains  a  yard  with 
182  ornamental  trees  and  more  than  100  shrubs. 
At  Rockwell,  he  had  been  a  safety  engineer  on 
the  space  shuttle  program. 

Moe  Nirenstein  spent  part  of  July  and  Au- 
gust working  at  an  archeological  dig  at  Shilo, 
Israel  (location  of  the  Ark  of  the  Covenant  after 
it  was  brought  there  by  Joshua,  according  to  the 
Bible).  While  in  Israel,  he  visited  Prof.  Smil 
Ruhman  at  the  Weizmann  Institute  of  Science 
in  Rehovoth.  Moe  writes,  "Since  consulting 
work  on  fossil-  and  nuclear-power  plants  is  fall- 
ing off  drastically,  I'm  now  with  the  New  York 


City  Department  of  Environmental  Protection 
as  a  'muddy  boots'  engineer." 

Harvey  Pastan  has  been  elected  one  of  three 
new  vice  presidents  of  Arthur  D.  Little  Inc.,  the 
multi-national  management  and  technology 
consulting  firm  in  Cambridge,  MA.  Prior  to  his 
promotion,  he  was  manager  of  the  firm's  elec- 
tronics systems  section.  Before  joining  the 
company  in  1970,  he  was  general  manager  and 
co-founder  of  Setra  Systems  Inc.,  of  Acton. 
Previously,  he  was  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  the  Dynisco  Division  of  Abex  Cor- 
poration. 

John  Wheeler  has  retired  from  Eastman  Ko- 
dak as  supervisor  of  the  technical-safety  re- 
search laboratory,  a  consulting  and  testing 
group  with  responsibilities  for  the  evaluation 
and  control  of  potential  fire  and  explosion  haz- 
ards of  chemicals  and  chemical  processes.  He 
plans  to  move  to  Rochester,  NH,  and  is  looking 
forward  to  renewing  ties  in  New  England,  be- 
coming active  in  WPI  affairs  and  engaging  in 
consulting  activities. 


1950 


Dr.  Herman  Nied,  a  staff  mechanical  engineer 
in  the  process  technology  branch,  GE  Corpo- 
rate Research  and  Development  Center, 
Schenectady,  has  been  named  a  fellow  of  the 
American  Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers. 
The  fellow  grade  is  conferred  upon  a  member 
who  has  had  at  least  ten  years'  active  engineer- 
ing practice  and  who  has  made  significant  con- 
tributions to  the  field.  Most  of  Dr.  Nied's  work 
has  been  devoted  to  analytical  modeling  and 
developing  computer  programs  for  nuclear-fuel 
elements,  fracture  mechanics,  fluid  mechanics, 
and  thermostructural  and  heat  transfer  analyses. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  he  also 
conducts  graduate  and  continuing  engineering 
courses  at  Union  College.  Currently,  he  is  sec- 
retary of  the  Hudson-Mohawk  Section  of  the 
ASME.  He  belongs  to  ASM,  the  Society  of 
Rheology,  the  American  Physical  Society,  the 
Society  of  Plastics  Engineers,  the  American 
Academy  of  Mechanics,  the  American  Welding 
Society  and  the  Society  of  Experimental  Stress 
Analysis. 

James  Sullivan  has  been  appointed  manager 
of  mechanical  and  combustion  engineering  for 
the  combustion  division  of  Columbia  Chase  in 
Holbrook,  MA.  He  will  work  primarily  on  the 
design  and  technology  of  equipment  and  proc- 
esses being  used  in  Columbia's  coal-based  liq- 
uid alternate  fuel  program. 

Andre  Tasso  is  director  of  the  Communica- 
tions Center  for  Industrial  Innovation  in  Mon- 
treal, Canada. 


1951 

Richard  Coffey  was  recently  named  manager 
of  special  manufacturing  projects  at  Monsanto 
Co.,  Springfield,  MA. 

1953 

Walter  Levine  wrote  "Retrofitting  Your  Die 
Casting  Spray  Equipment  for  Higher  Productiv- 


ity with  Acheson's  038  Nozzle,"  which  ap- 
peared in  the  October  issue  of  Die  Casting 
Engineer.  He  is  manager  of  application  equip- 
ment for  Acheson,  which  he  joined  in  1979. 
Formerly,  he  was  engineering  manager  for  Bin- 
dicatorCo. 

David  Van  Covern  continues  as  president  of 
Carolina  Industrial  Equipment,  Charlotte,  NC. 
Last  year,  his  first  grandchild  was  born. 


1954 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3, 1984 


Gordon  Walters,  former  president  of  Steiner- 
film  Inc.,  a  technical  film  company,  described 
his  experiences  starting  a  small  industry  in 
Massachusetts  during  the  November  meeting  of 
the  Northern  Berkshire  Industrial  Management 
Club. 

Roy  Wise  works  as  a  manager  at  New  York 
Telephone  and  lives  in  Englewood,  NJ. 


1955 


Richard  Quintin,  materials  manager  for  the 
Hamilton  Standard  Division,  United  Technolo- 
gies Corp.,  Windsor  Locks,  CT,  recently  re- 
ceived his  MS  in  management  from  the 
Hartford  Graduate  Center.  He  has  his  MBA 
from  Western  New  England  College.  In  1982- 
83  he  was  one  of  four  United  Technologies  em- 
ployees appointed  to  the  Corporate  Fellows 
Program  at  the  Hartford  Graduate  Center. 

Art  Rudman  writes  that  he  is  "thoroughly 
enjoying  the  new  career"  as  a  full-time  special 
representative  with  Franklin  Life  Insurance. 
Also,  he  continues  as  head  football  coach  for 
Madison  High  School.  In  1982  he  was  elected 
Maine  "Coach  of  the  Year"  after  leading  his 
team  to  an  11-0  state  championship. 

The  September  issue  of  Motor  magazine  ran 
a  profile  of  Bob  Stempel,  which  stated  that  as 
the  head  of  one  of  General  Motors'  five  car 
divisions,  "outsiders  see  [him]  as  having  the 
best  shot  at  the  [GM]  presidency  somewhere 
down  the  road."  Bob  serves  as  vice  president  of 
GM  and  general  manager  of  the  Chevrolet  divi- 
sion. He  is  a  WPI  trustee. 


1957 


After  spending  12  years  preparing  tax  returns, 
Donald  Clark  is  now  working  toward  his  CPA. 
He  is  also  planning  to  design  a  new  house. 

Leon  Morgan  has  been  appointed  senior  vice 
president  of  finance  and  accounting  with  United 
Illuminating.  Since  1976  he  has  served  as  exec- 
utive vice  president  for  operations,  engineering 
and  customer  services. 


1958 


Sanders  Associates  of  Nashua,  NH,  has  pro- 
moted Stanley  Graveline  to  product  line  direc- 
tor for  Navy  programs  in  the  electronic  warfare 
division.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all  of  the 
division's    Navy    electronic-countermeasures 


MAY  1984       41 


products.  Prior  to  joining  Sanders  in  1967.  he 
worked  for  the  government  at  Fort  Monmouth. 
NJ. 

Raymond  Johnson  was  recend>  named  sales 
manager  by  Killeen  Machine  Tool  Company 
Inc..  Worcester.  Previously,  he  was  vice  presi- 
dent of  sales  and  president  of  the  former  John- 
son-Claflin  Corporatiori  of  Marlborough.  MA. 
a  metal-stamping  firm  founded  in  192"  by  his 
grandfather.  In  1977.  the  firm  merged  with 
Nepsco  Inc  m,  MA.  where  Johnson 

held  the  post  of  sales  manager.  Currendy .  he  is 
trustee  of  the  Marlborough  Public  Library 
I  president  of  the  Fnends  of  the  Marlborough 
:  Public  Library  and  a  founding  member  and 
•  member  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Greater 
Marlborough  Svmphonv  Orchestra  (founded  in 
1980). 
>hcrman  Poultne>.  -  _-gerof  spectromet- 
ems  at  Perkin-Elmer's  electro-optical  di- 
vision in  Danbury.  CT.  has  been  named  a 
Perkin-Elmer  senior  scientist,  a  position  recog- 
nizing the  company's  most  outstanding  techni- 
cal talent.  He  is  nationally  recognized  as  an 
authority    on  specirometric   systems  and   has 
been  central  to  their  development  at  the  com- 
pam.  Besides  writing  reviews   for  scientific 
publications,  he  has  published  in  more  than  90 
other  publications  and  has  written  chapters  in 
several  books.  Prior  to  joining  Periun-Elmer  in 
197S.  he  was  an  associate  professor  at  Old  Do- 
minion University  in  Norfolk.  VA.  and  a  re- 
search scientist  at  the  University  of  Man.  land. 
He  holds  a  PhD  from  Princeton. 

Robert  Wolff.  Jr..  was  recently  elected  vice 
president  of  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Co.. 
Lincoln.  RI.  Previously,  he  was  the  power  de- 
liver} editor  with  Electrical  World,  a  McGraw  - 
Hill  utility  industry  technical  publication  based 
in  New  York.  From  1958  to  1978  he  managed 
several  key  areas  in  engineering,  construction 
and  sv  stem  operations  at  Consolidated  Edison 
Co. 


1959 


Reunion 


Mav31-June3.  1984 


James  Allien.  I  senior  bridge  engineer  for  the 
Sale  of  California,  has  been  named  senior  resi- 
dent engineer  on  the  Golden  Gate  Bridge  deck 
restoration  in  San  Francisco.  The  two-year 
project,  in  which  9.000  feet  of  roadway  will  be 
replaced,  will  cost  S52.5  million. 

Capt  Robert  Allen  assumed  command  of 
the  U.S.  Naval  Base  in  Guantanamo  Bay  during 
recent  change-of -command  ceremonies  held  at 
the  base,  which  is  located  at  the  southern  tip  of 
Cuba.  Commissioned  an  ensign  upon  gradua- 
tion from  WPI.  during  his  career  Allen  has 
served  as  an  rtrhmgr  pilot  in  the  British  Royal 
Navy,  stationed  in  Wales,  and  as  a  senior  pilot 
aboard  the  carrier  H.MS  Eagle.  He  also  held  a 
command  post  assigned  to  the  office  of  the 
Chief  of  Naval  Operations. 

B.  H.  Baker  is  now  a  self-employed  consuft- 

Dick  Bratt  continues  with  the  Materials  Di- 
vision at  Norton  Co..  Worcester.  Recently,  he 
was  given  some  selling  responsibility  to  add  to 
his  product  engineering  job.  He  also  runs  Bran 
Corp..  a  part-time  business  that  makes  warm- 
up  baseball  bats. 

Wayne  Gass  continues  at  Mount  Holyoke 


College,  w  here  he  is  now  business  manager  and 
director  of  physical  facilities  He  has  been  with 
the  college  for  21  years.  His  wife.  Marilyn. 
teaches. 

Dave  Miller  is  currendv  with  OHMIC  Filters 
in  St.  Michaels.  MD. 

Joel  Nelson  of  Augusta.  GA.  works  in  a  state 
mental  hospital,  rehabilitating  alcoholics  and 
drug  addicts. 

"Skip"  Nhchie  left  IBM  after  nearly  19 
>ears  to  work  for  Storage  Technology  Corpora- 
tion, where  he  serves  as  director  of  corporate 
quality.  Currently,  he  is  working  to  develop  the 
first  commercial  laser  optical  storage  drive.  4 
gigabytes  of  storage  per  disk.  He  also  heads 
Nitchie  .Associates.  Boulder.  CO.  which  pro- 
duces a  device  to  control  warp  of  corrugated 
paperboard  during  its  manufacture. 

William  PurseU.  Jr..  is  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  Cameo  Inc..  which  manufac- 
jbsurface-production  and  safety  equip- 
ment for  oil  and  gas  wells. 

Dick  Ronskavhz  of  Fort  Lauderdale.  FL. 
says  that  he  and  his  family  are  looking  forward 
to  attending  the  25th  reunion.  Currently,  he  is 
the  assistant  director  of  the  Broward  County 
Traffic  Engineering  Division.  "For  the  past  two 
years  we  have  been  working  a  4-day  schedule, 
with  plenty  of  time  for  golf,  fishing  and  boat- 
ing." he  writes. 

Gordon  Sigman  is  vice  president  of  Com- 
mand and  Control  systems  at  Norden  Systems. 
Norwalk.  CT.  a  division  of  UTC 

Stanley  Sokotoff  is  a  partner  in  a  1 2-man  law 
firm  in  Beverly  Hills.  CA.  The  firm.  Blakely. 
Sokokoff.  Taylor  and  Zafman.  specializes  in  in- 
tellectual-property law.  The  Sokoloffs.  who 
have  three  children,  recently  celebrated  their 
21st  wedding  anniversary. 

Edwin  Tenney  serves  as  manager  of  me- 
chanical collectors  for  GE  Environmental  Ser- 
vices Inc..  Lebanon.  PA.  He  writes.  "This  job 
has  taken  me  to  oil  refineries  around  the 
world."  His  son.  Douglas,  is  a  sophomore  at 
WPI 

Recently.  Stan  Wallner  was  promoted  to 
manager  of  the  Orlando.  FL.  branch  of  Fisher 
Scientific  Co.  He  had  been  manager  of  the  De- 
troit branch  since  1977.  With  the  exception  of  a 
two-year  Army  stint.  Stan  has  been  with  Fisher 
since  1962.  He  has  an  MBA  in  marketing  from 
Seton  Hall  University.  The  Wallners  have  a 
five-year-old  son  and  twin  daughters,  age  3. 

With  Harris  Government  Satellite  Comm. 
Division  for  14  years.  William  Whitehead  en- 
joys running,  emergency  medicine  and  commu- 
nity theater. 

Jack  Wolfe  is  now  senior  vice  president  of 
n  Hemisphere  Operations  for  EG&iG 
Sealol  in  Providence.  RI.  Previously,  he  was 
senior  vice  president  of  North  American  Opera- 
tions for  the  firm.  For  the  past  seven  years 
(three  as  president),  he  has  served  on  the  board 
of  directors  of  the  Northeast  Labor-Manage- 
ment Center,  a  nonprofit  organization  providing 
quality  of  work  life  consulting  services  to  in- 
dustry and  the  public. 

Edward  Wysocki  writes.  "Enjoying  life  on 
"--acre  airport  located  in  my  backyard." 
Besides  working  as  a  project  engineer  for  Pratt 
&.  Whitney  Aircraft,  he  operates  the  Wysocki 
Field  in  Ellington.  CT.  and  is  chairman  of  the 
board  of  Northeast  Airfoto  Service.  Son  Ed, 
Jr..  "81.  is  a  project  engineer  at  Hamilton 
Standard  and  owns  and  operates  a  helicopter 
service.  Son  Joseph.  '83,  helps  with  the  family 


business  and  works  as  a  mechanical-design  en- 
gineer at  UTC  Research  Center.  Edward's  son 
James  owns  and  operates  the  Connecticut 
Flight  Center  and  his  daughter.  Dianne.  re- 
cently held  an  internship  with  James  River 
Graphics.  His  wife.  Alice,  is  president  of  his 
company . 

Fred  Lurze.  Class  Secretary 


1960 


Dr.  Robert  Condrate.  professor  of  spectros- 
copy at  the  New  York  State  College  of  Ce- 
ramics at  Alfred  University,  has  been  elected  to 
membership  in  Britain's  Royal  Society  of 
Chemistry.  His  election  was  pan  of  a  reciprocal 
membership  agreement  between  the  British 
group  and  the  A1C  Condrate  is  a  fellow  of  the 
latter  organization.  He  has  an  international  rep- 
utation as  a  researcher  in  the  optical  properties 
of  matter.  A  prolific  author,  he  has  written  tech- 
nical papers  for  more  than  a  dozen  professional 
publications. 


1962 


MARRIED:  Richard  DiBuono  and  Diana 
Dorsey  of  Sacramento.  CA.  on  January  14. 
I  1984.  Dick  has  resigned  from  the  Corps  of  En- 
gineers and  has  founded  his  own  company.  Di- 
Buono Distributing  Co.  Inc..  in  California.  The 
firm  is  primarily  concerned  with  the  sales  and 
distribution  of  an  automobile  anti-theft  ignition 
lock  called  Sav-Car.  It  is  manufactured  by 
Safety  Controls  Inc..  of  Worcester 

Andrew  Terwilleger  writes  that  his  Kiwanis 
activity  keeps  him  busy.  Recently,  following  a 
year  in  office,  he  received  the  Distinguished 
Lieutenant  Governor  award.  Now  he  is  serving 
as  chairman  of  support  for  spiritual  aims  in  the 
Kentuckv  -Tennessee  District. 


1963 


Kenneth  Backer  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  marketing  at  Verbex.  a  division  of  Ex- 
xon Enterprises  in  Bedford.  MA.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  sales  and  marketing  of  the 
firm's  new  family  of  Model  3000  voice  data 
entry  terminals.  Most  recently,  he  was  manager 
of  Northeast  branch  operations  for  Raytheon 
Data  Sy  stems. 

Having  recently  returned  from  England  to 
Massachusetts.  Roger  Flood  is  now  vice  presi- 
dent of  engineering  at  Badger  Engineers  Inc.. 
Cambridge.  He  had  been  vice  president  and 
general  manager  of  the  London  office. 

Harry  Hoy  en  and  his  family  toured  seven 
European  countries  last  summer.  In  July,  he  de- 
livered an  inv  ited  paper  at  the  Institute  of  Theo- 
retical Physics  in  Trieste.  Italy. 

Dr.  Richard  Kashnow  has  been  named  gen- 
eral manager  of  GE's  quartz  and  chemical  prod- 
ucts department.  He  joined  GE  in  1970.  and  he 
was  named  manager  of  the  aerospace  business 
group's  electronics  lab  in  1979  and  product  gen- 
eral manager  of  the  lighting  business  group's 
Halarc  product  section  in  1981.  He  holds  three 
patents  and  has  written  30  technical  papers. 

John  Machonis,  Jr..  was  recently  presented 


-:      "*  ::/:v? ::.-.: 


with  a  15-year  service  award  by  Chemplex  Co.. 
Rolling  Meadows.  IL.  He  is  manager  of  re- 
search and  development  for  the  firm. 

Harold  Wright  has  assumed  the  post  of  sales 
manager  at  Vee-Arc  Corp..  Westboro.  MA.  He 
is  responsible  for  company  sales  in  the  U.S. 
and  Canada.  Prior  to  joining  Vee-Arc.  he  was 
with  WER  Industrial  and  R.T.  Engineering. 


1964 


Reunion 


May  31-June  3,  1984 


Dr.  Chao  Chi  is  now  group  manager  at  MPI/ 
CDC  in  Santa  Clara.  CA. 

Alpha  Industries  of  Woburn.  MA.  recently 
appointed  Dr.  Steven  Mittleman  as  principal 
engineer.  His  responsibilities  will  include  de- 
veloping high-frequency  GaAs  FET  devices 
and  voltage  controlled  oscillator  circuits.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  a  technical  staff  member  at 
Sperry  Research  Center.  He  has  a  PhD  and  an 
ScM  in  electrical  sciences,  solid  state,  from 
Brown.  Currently,  he  is  academic  coordinator 
of  microelectronics  for  the  state-of-the-art  engi- 
neering program  at  Northeastern. 

Gerald  Tammi  serves  as  technical  assistant 
to  the  senior  vice  president  at  Data  General. 
Westboro.  MA. 


1965 


John  Iannotti  has  been  promoted  to  area  oper- 
ating manager  in  the  Wilkes-Barre  area  of  the 
Pennsylvania  Power  &  Light  Company's  cen- 
tral division.  In  his  new  post,  he  will  manage 
engineering,  construction  and  associated  sup- 
port activities  for  the  Wilkes-Barre  area.  He 
started  his  career  as  an  industrial  sales  engineer 
in  the  Scranton  marketing  department.  He  was 
named  senior  engineer  of  distribution  methods 
and  tools  in  1973  and  acting  production  man- 
ager for  distribution  between  1980  and  1982. 

Phillip  Martin,  who  has  worked  in  system 
protection  at  Public  Service  of  New  Hampshire 
since  1965.  wrote  "Adequate  Protection  Means 
Greater  Reliability."  which  appeared  in  the 
December  issue  of  Transmission  and  Distribu- 
tion. He  received  his  MSEM  from  Northeastern 
University  in  1972. 


1966 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Anthony  Sacovitch 
their  fifth  daughter.  Knstina.  recently.  Tony  is 
plant  manager  at  Wright  Machine  Corp..  Wor- 
cester. 

Richard  Nelson  placed  1 1  th  out  of  about  70 
cars  in  the  recent  Great  American  Car  Race,  a 
time-speed-distance  rally  for  pre- 1942  cars. 
The  course  went  from  Anaheim.  CA.  to  Indian- 
apolis (2.800  miles)  and  took  seven  days  to 
complete.  Dick  is  an  oil  and  gas  producer  with 
Nelson  Oil  and  Gas.  He  is  located  in  Shreves- 
port.  LA. 

John  Wright  was  recently  named  director  of 
marketing  and  sales  for  cheese  products  by 
Stauffer  Chemical  Co.  In  this  newly  created 
post,  he  directs  an  expanded  marketing,  sales 
and  technical  support  program  serving  cheese 


"Just  another  few  steps  and  we  7/  be  at  the  top. " 


manufacturing  industries.  After  holding  indus- 
trial and  food  chemical  sales  and  marketing 
posts  with  Stauffer.  he  was  marketing  manager 
for  food  phosphates  for  the  food  ingredients  di- 
vision prior  to  his  promotion. 

Joseph  Wright  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent of  technical  marketing  at  Jamesbury 
Corp..  Worcester.  With  the  firm  since  1967.  he 
had  been  chief  engineer  for  ball  valves,  wafer- 
sphere  valves  and  butterfly  valves. 


1967 


MARRIED:  Edward  Ciarpella  to  Jean  Souza 
on  August  7,  1983.  She  is  head  of  the  business 
department  at  Tiverton  (RI)  High  School, 
where  he  teaches  secondary  mathematics.  Cur- 
rently, Ciarpella  is  vice  president  of  the  Na- 
tional Education  Association  in  Tiverton  and  a 
member  of  the  executive  committee  of  the  NEA 
in  Rhode  Island. 

Roger  Bartholomew  gave  a  talk  on  cave  ex- 
ploration (spelunking)  at  a  recent  meeting  of  the 
Rome  (NY)  Academy  of  Sciences.  An  accom- 
plished cave  photographer,  he  is  a  member  of 
the  National  Speleological  Society.  He  has 
taught  high-school  and  college  physics  and  has 
explored,  mapped  or  photographed  caves  from 
Texas  to  New  York,  as  well  as  caves  in  British 
Columbia. 

Dr.  Roger  Gariepy  was  recentlv  appointed 
manager  of  Air  Products'  process  systems 
group,  management  information  services 
(MIS).  He  joined  Air  Products  in  1972  as  a 
scientific  systems  analyst  in  the  management 
information  division.  Prior  to  his  most  recent 
appointment,  he  was  manager  of  engineering 
systems  in  MIS. 

John   Hitchcock   has   been   appointed   vice 


president  of  Cicirello  Construction  Company. 
Kirtland.  OH.  He  and  his  wife.  Marilyn,  have 
two  sons:  Bill.  8.  and  And> .  4. 

In  December.  Jack  Rahaim.  corporate  man- 
ager in  personnel  administration  for  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation,  led  a  seminar  on  "De- 
veloping an  Automated  Personnel  System"  at 
Mount  Wachusett  Community  College  in 
Gardner.  MA.  An  experienced  seminar  leader. 
he  holds  an  MBA  from  the  University  of  New 
Haven.  Prior  to  joining  DEC.  he  worked  in  the 
building  automation  field.  He  is  on  the  adjunct 
faculties  of  WPI  and  Mount  Wachusen  Com- 
munity College.  His  article.  "Who's  in  Control 
Here."  appeared  in  the  January  issue  of  Compu- 
temorid. 


1968 


MARRIED:  William  Nordstrom  to  Paula 
Swenson  in  Leverett.  MA.  on  January  14. 
1984.  Paula,  a  therapist  for  the  Franklin  County 
Mental  Health  Association,  has  a  master's  de- 
gree from  UMass.  Bill  is  technical  manager  of 
pumps  for  the  Kontro  Co.  in  Orange.  MA. 

Dr.  Roger  Pryor,  a  technical  advisor  in  cor- 
porate scientific  research,  is  one  of  five  em- 
ployes appointed  a  senior  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Pitney  Bowes.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1976  as  a  senior  physicist  and  pwy 
ect  manager  and  has  also  served  as  a  manager 
of  physical  sciences.  FormerU  he  was  affiliated 
with  Bell  Telephone  Labs.  Whippanv.  NJ.  He 
holds  a  doctorate  and  a  master's  degree  in  phys- 
ics from  Pennsylvania  State  University  He  is  i 
visiting  professor  of  physics  in  the  graduate 
school  at  the  University  of  Connecticut,  a  se- 
nior member  of  the  IEEE  and  chairman  of  sev- 
eral professional  committees. 


MAY  19S4       43 


Reunion 


September  22,  1984 


MARRIED:  Alexander  Malcolm  and  Jane 
Lindsay  in  Coventry,  RI.  on  October  8,  1983. 
Jane  graduated  from  the  Newport  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing. 

Charles  Forand  has  been  named  a  district 
manager  in  Information  Systems  Organization 
(ISO)  services  for  New  England  Telephone  in 
Boston.  In  his  new  post,  he  works  with  testing 
apparatus  used  by  computer  programmers,  in- 
troduction of  new  software  products  and  sup- 
port of  data  centers.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1972 
and  has  worked  for  the  Framingham  long-dis- 
tance switching  center  and  Bell  Labs  in  NJ. 

Andy  Perreault,  who  has  been  a  nuclear  en- 
gineer at  GE's  Knolls  Atomic  Laboratory, 
Schenectady,  NY,  for  12  years,  was  recently 
the  senior  physicist  for  the  reactor  start-up  team 
for  the  The  USS  Salt  Lake  City,  one  of  the  Na- 
vy's most  advanced  nuclear  powered  attack 
submarines.  The  Perreaults  have  two  children 
and  enjoy  cross-country  skiing,  bridge  and  mu- 
sic. "We  all  play  the  piano." 

Stephen  Spakowsky,  product  development 
engineer  for  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  recently  re- 
ceived an  Emmy  award  from  the  National 
Academy  of  Television  Arts  and  Sciences  for 
his  contributions  to  the  development  of  East- 
man color  high-speed  negative  film  5293. 


A.B.  Chance  Company  has  named  Ron 
Stelmak  international  marketing  director.  He 
transferred  to  Centralia,  MO,  after  having 
served  as  an  account  representative  in  the  New 
York  area.  Before  joining  Chance  in  1972,  he 
was  with  Westinghouse. 

Peter  Walsh  is  with  Engineering  Directions, 
Melville,  NY. 

William  Willand  is  assistant  chief  engineer 
for  Arute  Brothers  Inc.,  New  Britain,  CT. 


1970 


Alan  Breitman  has  been  named  an  associate  in 
the  Boston  office  of  William  M.  Mercer  Inc., 
the  employee  benefits  and  compensation  con- 
sulting firm.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1979  as  a 
consulting  actuary  after  four  years  as  an  assis- 
tant actuary  with  Boston  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Co.  Previously  he  was  an  actuarial  assistant 
with  State  Mutual. 

John  Demase  was  recently  promoted  to  sen- 
ior customer  support  representative  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney's  government  products  division.  West 
Palm  Beach,  FL.  He  deals  with  P&W's  foreign 
customers  on  post-production  activities.  He 
holds  an  MSME  from  RPI. 

William  Hillner,  who  is  located  in  King- 
wood,  TX,  continues  as  operations  superin- 
tendent at  Exxon.  He  has  three  daughters. 

Dr.  Jerry  Johnson  has  been  named  a  recipi- 


He  Plumbs  the  Mysteries 
Of  the  Human  Brain 

Having  trouble  getting  a  good  night's 
sleep?  If  the  answer  is  yes,  Dr.  Joseph 
Bronzino,  '59  EE,  may  soon  have  the  so- 
lution to  your  problem. 

Bronzino,  who  is  chairman  of  the 
Department  of  Engineering  at  Trinity 
College,  Hartford,  CT,  is  principal  inves- 
tigator for  a  National  Science  Foundation- 
funded  project  titled  "Neuronal  Mecha- 
nisms Involved  in  Sleep-Waking 
Oscillation." 

In  applying  engineering  techniques  to 
medical  study,  Bronzino  has  also  contrib- 
uted greatly  to  investigations  on  the  effects 
of  protein  malnutrition  in  the  developing 
brain  and  to  studies  of  pain  modification 
through  neural  manipulation. 

Although  his  specialty  is  research, 
Bronzino  enjoys  teaching.  Foreseeing  that 
many  industries  will  be  revolutionized  by 
the  computer  within  the  next  decade,  he 
says  that  a  liberal  arts  education,  such  as 
Trinity  offers,  must  be  well  tempered  with 
science  and  technology. 

"We  have  already  crossed  the  threshold 
into  a  new  technological  era,"  he  says. 
"With  computers  we  can  manipulate  and 
analyze  information  much  faster  than  the 
human  brain.  Computers  offer  the  poten- 
tial to  be  extensions  of  the  human  brain, 
just  as  the  automobile  is  an  aid  in  locomo- 
tion and  sensory  aids  assist  in  perception." 


ill  ItM  •  »»..  <■ 


IU     m-m  fc>       *- 


Dr.  Joseph  Bronzino 

Since  1977,  Bronzino  has  been  the 
Vernon  Roosa  Professor  of  Applied  Sci- 
ence, an  endowed  chair  at  Trinity.  He  is 
also  chairman  of  the  biomedical  engineer- 
ing program  at  Hartford  Graduate  Center 
and  an  active  participant  in  brain  research 
studies  at  the  Worcester  Foundation  for 
Experimental  Biology. 

Bronzino  has  an  MSEE  from  the  U.S. 
Naval  Postgraduate  School  and  a  PhD 
from  WPI.  His  second  book,  Computer 
Applications  for  Patient  Care  (Addison 
Wesley),  was  published  in  1982. 


ent  of  Cyanamid's  prestigious  1983  Scientific 
Achievement  Award.  At  recent  award  ceremo- 
nies in  New  York  City,  he  was  one  of  15  em- 
ployees from  the  firm's  research  facilities 
around  the  world  honored  by  the  company  pres- 
ident. A  research  chemist  with  Cyanamid's  ag- 
ricultural research  division  in  Princeton,  NJ, 
Johnson  was  cited  for  his  discovery  of  a.  new 
herbicide  being  developed  for  weed  control  in 
soybeans. 

Edward  Mason  now  holds  the  post  of  direc- 
tor of  Cummins  Diesel  International  in  Brazil. 
He  and  his  wife.  Norma,  have  two  children. 


1971 


Leonard  Andreozzi  is  a  senior  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Ball  Aerospace  Systems  Divi- 
sion in  Boulder,  CO. 

Benjamin  Katcoff,  corporate  benefits  man- 
ager for  Polaroid,  has  been  selected  as  a  Pew 
Health  Policy  Fellow  for  1983-85.  The  fellows 
program  is  sponsored  jointly  by  Boston  Univer- 
sity's Center  for  Industry  and  Health  Care  and 
Brandeis  University's  Heller  Graduate  School 
and  provides  advanced  training  in  health  policy 
to  individuals  from  both  the  corporate  and  pub- 
lic sectors.  Katcoff  is  a  member  of  the  Health 
Care  Task  Force  of  the  Massachusetts  Business 
Round  Table  and  a  member  of  the  Policy  De- 
velopment Committee  of  the  Greater  Boston 
Health  Planning  Council. 

Currently,  Jeffrey  Lassey  is  supervisor  of 
plant  engineering  at  the  Wyman  Gordon  plant 
in  Grafton,  MA,  where  he  had  been  facilities 
engineer.  Jeffrey  and  his  wife,  Lynne,  have  two 
children,  Stephanie,  5,  and  Jeffrey,  2. 

John  Petrillo  is  now  vice  president  of  sales 
for  AT&T  Communications  in  Los  Angeles. 
He  is  in  charge  of  national  accounts  on  the  West 
Coast.  The  Petrillos  have  two  sons,  Michael,  5, 
and  Matthew,  2. 

Dan  Smith  has  been  appointed  manager  of 
Morgan  Isley  Systems  in  the  furnace  equipment 
department  of  Morgan  Construction  Company. 
He  is  responsible  for  Morgan  secondary  regen- 
erator systems,  reversing  valves  and  ejector 
stacks.  With  the  department  since  1979,  he  had 
been  a  sales  engineer  at  Rodney  Hunt  Company 
in  the  industrial  roll  division  and  at  Riley 
Stoker,  where  he  helped  design  fuel  burning 
equipment  for  fossil  fuel  utility  boilers. 


1972 


Dr.  Raymond  Fish,  a  regional  trauma  center 
physician  at  Burnham  Hospital,  Champaign, 
IL,  has  been  certified  as  a  diplomate  of  the 
American  Board  of  Emergency  Medicine.  He 
holds  a  medical  degree  from  the  Pritzner  School 
of  Medicine  at  the  University  of  Chicago  and  a 
PhD  in  biomedical  engineering  from  WPI  and 
Clark  University. 

Adrien  Gaudreau  is  chief  of  the  Configura- 
tion Management  Branch  for  the  USAF  at 
Camp  Smith,  HI. 

Jim  Hall  was  recently  named  regional  mar- 
keting director  in  Europe  for  Norton  Com- 
pany's new  organization,  established  to  meet 
Construction  Products'  worldwide  marketing 
program.  His  responsibilities  include  the 
United  Kingdom,   Benelux,   Scandinavia,   the 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


Middle  East  and  Africa,  in  addition  to  giving 
guidance  to  marketing  operations  in  Spain. 
Prior  to  his  appointment,  Jim  had  been  in 
Gainesville,  GA,  where  he  had  served  as  mar- 
keting director  in  North  America  for  Norton. 
Jim,  his  wife,  Renee,  and  daughters  Leslie,  5, 
and  Ashley,  2,  reside  in  Luxembourg. 

Stephen  Wilkinson  is  packaging  manager 
for  Astra  Pharmaceutical  Products,  Westboro, 
MA. 


1973 


Stephen  Johnson  has  joined  the  seacoast  divi- 
sion of  Public  Service  of  New  Hampshire 
(PSNH)  as  division  electrical  engineer.  He 
joined  PSNH  in  1973  as  a  cadet  engineer  in  the 
distribution  department. 

Peter  Martin  is  a  senior  engineer  for  Mobil 
Oil  Corp.  in  Pennington,  NJ. 

Robert  Starnes  is  the  group  leader  for  bio- 
chemistry at  Novo  Laboratories  in  Wilton,  CT. 
He  has  a  PhD  from  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. 

Tim  Whitehouse  serves  as  a  sales  production 
engineer  for  American  Concrete  Pipe  in  Mil- 
waukee, WI. 

Francis  Yanuskiewicz  was  recently  ap- 
pointed an  associate  by  the  consulting  engineer- 
ing firm  of  Weston  &  Sampson  Engineers  Inc., 
Wakefield,  MA.  He  holds  the  Value  Engineer- 
ing Certificate  from  the  EPA  and  the  Society  of 
American  Value  Engineers,  and  he  belongs  to 
the  New  England  Water  Pollution  Control  As- 
sociation. A  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Maine  and  Massachusetts,  he  has  been  involved 
in  a  number  of  wastewater  and  drainage  de- 
signs, including  work  for  the  MDC  in  Boston. 


1974 


Reunion 


September  22, 1984 


MARRIED:  James  Sgroi  to  Cheri  Roberge  in 
York  Harbor,  ME.  Cheri,  a  sales  coordinator  in 
customer  relations  for  Prime  Computer,  Natick, 
MA,  graduated  from  Keene  (NH)  State  Col- 
lege. Jim  is  with  Patti  Brothers  Inc.,  Sudbury, 
MA. 

William  Byron,  director  of  clinical  opera- 
tions for  Eastern  Maine  Medical  Center,  has 
been  accepted  as  a  member  of  the  American 
College  of  Hospital  Administrators.  He  joined 
the  center  in  1978  and  has  an  MBA  from  Bos- 
ton University. 

Michael  Martowska  holds  a  new  post  as 
senior  packaging  development  engineer  with 
Purdue  Frederick  Company  in  Norwalk,  CT. 

Jerry  Masi  is  president  of  Eric  Bruckner  & 
Company,  a  real-estate  investment  firm  in 
Santa  Barbara,  CA.  He  enjoys  camping,  travel, 
boating,  fishing  and  skiing.  He  says  that  his 
family  is  a  speedboat,  a  lovebird  named  Chico 
and  a  swordfish  named  Cutup. 

Will  McBride  is  now  an  electrical-project 
engineer  for  Price/Ciri  in  Anchorage,  AK.  He 
recently  set  up  an  electrical-construction  de- 
partment for  a  $60-million  job  at  the  North 
Slope  (Prudhoe  Bay,  AK)  for  SOHIO.  He  man- 
ages estimators,  material  coordinators,  field  en- 
gineers, drafters,  document  control  and  quality 
control.  Previously  with  ARCO,  he  is  a  regis- 


tered professional  engineer  in  Alaska  and  con- 
sults under  the  name  of  Northern  Energy  R&D. 

Russell  Naber,  who  received  his  MBA  in 
marketing  from  Xavier  University  last  year,  has 
been  promoted  to  section  head  in  food  product 
development  at  Procter  &  Gamble,  with  re- 
sponsibility for  Duncan  Hines  products. 

Tony  Tomasiello,  an  attorney  associated 
with  the  law  firm  of  Healy  &  Rocheleau,  PC, 
Worcester,  currently  resides  in  Holden,  MA. 
His  wife,  Janet,  a  self-employed  graphic  de- 
signer, received  a  BA  and  a  BFA  from  Emma- 
nuel College. 

Jim  Rubino,  Class  Secretary 


1975 


MARRIED:  Wayne  DuPont  and  Gail  Fyrberg 
in  Southborough,  MA,  on  October  15,  1983. 
She  graduated  from  Algonquin  Regional  High 
School  and  is  a  production  control  planner  at 
Prime  Computer  in  Framingham.  He  is  an  engi- 
neering manager  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Acton,  MA.  .  .  .  Edward  Karedes  to  Sheila 
Roake  recently  in  South  Boston,  MA.  She  at- 
tended UMass  in  Boston  and  currently  attends 
Southern  Connecticut  State  College.  He  works 
for  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT.  .  .  .  Greg- 
ory Miranda  and  Kim  Houde  on  July  23, 
1983,  in  South  Hadley,  MA.  Kim  graduated 
from  Mount  Holyoke  and  holds  a  master's  de- 
gree from  Yale.  She  is  a  clinical  research  assis- 
tant in  the  department  of  anesthesia  at  UMass 
Medical  School.  Gregory  is  a  chemist  for 
Biomeasure  Inc.,  Hopkinton,  MA. 

BORN:  to  Alice  and  Ed  Griffin  a  daughter, 
Sheena,  on  December  30,  1983. 

Fred  Greulich  is  manager  of  production  for 
Frito  Lay  in  Binghamton,  NY. 

Robert  Miller  of  Shrewsbury,  MA,  is  now 
the  owner-manager  of  a  ComputerLand  store. 
He  received  his  MBA  from  RPI.  Formerly,  he 
was  a  senior  quality  engineer  for  DEC. 

Capt.  Doug  Sargent  has  been  assigned  as 
chief  of  programs  and  engineering  at  Thule  Air 
Base  in  Greenland.  He  is  evaluating  contractor 
performance  on  an  $80-million  operations  and 
maintenance  contract,  as  well  as  reviewing 
plans  and  coordinating  construction  of  several 
projects  to  be  built  in  the  harsh  arctic  environ- 
ment. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Richard  Dew  III  to  Linda  Rader 
in  Framingham,  MA,  on  September  10,  1983. 
Linda  attended  Virginia  Intermont  College  and 
is  employed  as  a  cancer  registrar  at  Milton  Hos- 
pital. Richard,  who  attended  both  WPI  and 
Mass.  College  of  Pharmacy,  is  a  dispatcher  for 
Boston  Cab  Co.  .  .  .  Peter  Golrick  and  Jeanne 
Surette  recently  in  Clinton,  MA.  She  graduated 
from  Northeastern,  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Lesley  College  and  is  a  special-needs  teacher 
at  Shrewsbury  High  School.  Peter  is  a  supervi- 
sor in  data  processing  for  Coca-Cola  in 
Needham.  .  .  .  Gregory  Kedderis  to  Lorrene 
Buckley  in  New  Fairfield,  CT,  on  November 
26,  1983.  Lorrene  graduated  from  the  State 
University  College  at  Geneseo,  NY,  and  from 
the  University  of  Arizona  at  Tucson.  Gregory 
has  a  PhD  in  biochemistry  from  Northwestern 


University  Medical  School  in  Chicago.  She  is  a 
senior  research  associate  and  he  is  a  postdoc- 
toral fellow  at  the  Chemical  Industry  Institute 
of  Toxicology,  Research  Triangle  Park, 
NC.  .  .  .  Eduardas  Meilus,  Jr.,  and  Terese 
Gaidelis  in  Chicago  on  September  24,  1983.  A 
graphic  artist  and  photographer,  Terese  gradu- 
ated from  the  College  of  Saint  Mary  in  Omaha. 
He  holds  an  MBA  from  WPI  and  is  a  quality 
control  engineer  for  Raytheon  in  Northboro, 
MA.  .  .  .  Thomas  Vaughn  and  Cynthia  Al- 
mond in  Ridgefield,  CT,  on  June  18,  1983.  She 
graduated  from  Northeastern  and  was  a  CPA 
with  Chas.  T.  Main  and  with  Deloitte  Haskins 
and  Sells,  both  in  Boston.  He  is  a  sales  engineer 
with  Albany  International. 

James  Buss  has  been  promoted  to  director  of 
individual-product  development  at  State  Mutual 
in  Worcester.  In  1982  he  earned  the  designation 
of  fellow  of  the  Society  of  Actuaries. 

Al  Cooley  continues  with  the  Codex  subsid- 
iary of  Motorola  in  Canton,  MA,  where  he  was 
recently  promoted  to  manager  of  product  mar- 
keting. He  is  responsible  for  identifying  and 
implementing  products  and  programs  that  will 
increase  Codex's  share  in  the  low  end  of  the 
data  transmission  market.  He  writes,  "I'm  also 
about  halfway  through  a  master's  degree  in 
computer  engineering  at  Boston  University." 

"B.  J."  Johnson,  a  group  underwriting  con- 
sultant for  northeastern  group  operations  of 
Prudential  Insurance  Co.,  Parsippany,  NJ,  cur- 
rently resides  in  Morris  Plains. 

Donald  Mick  was  recently  appointed  direc- 
tor of  software  systems  engineering  at  Sanders 
Associates  in  Nashua,  NH.  With  the  firm  since 
1967,  he  has  held  several  managerial  positions. 
He  has  a  BSEE  from  the  University  of  Michi- 
gan, a  master's  degree  in  computer  science 
from  WPI,  an  MBA  from  Rivier  College  and  a 
law  degree  from  the  University  of  Santa  Clara. 

Nancy  Sauberman,  a  student  at  St.  George's 
University  Medical  School  in  Grenada,  was 
safely  escorted  from  the  island  during  the  evac- 
uation last  fall. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Andrew  Clancy  to  Marianne 
Sergott  recently  in  Chestnut  Hill,  MA.  Mari- 
anne graduated  from  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania School  of  Dental  Hygiene  and  holds  a 
degree  from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh  School 
of  Allied  Health  Professions.  Andrew  is  em- 
ployed by  Western  Electric  Marketing 
Organization.  .  .  .  George  Robinson  and  Har- 
riet Lewis  in  North  Auburn,  ME,  on  September 
3,  1983.  A  member  of  the  Maine  legislature, 
she  graduated  from  Wellesley  and  has  her  PhD 
in  Greek  archaeology  from  the  University  of 
Minnesota.  George  is  president  of  Robinson 
Manufacturing  Company  in  Oxford. 

Richard  Garstka  has  been  promoted  to  se- 
nior systems  consultant  within  the  systems  or- 
ganization at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance 
Company.  He  joined  the  firm  as  a  senior  sys- 
tems analyst  in  1980. 

Jeff  Tingle  continues  as  a  graduate  student  in 
the  department  of  geological  sciences  at  Brown 
University  in  Providence,  RI. 

Last  September,  Robert  Ware  received  his 
ScD  in  chemical  engineering  from  MIT.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  with  Mobil  Research  &  Develop- 
ment Corporation  in  Paulsboro,  NJ. 


MAY  1984       45 


1978 


MARRIED:  Paul  Angelico  to  Donna  LaCroix 
on  September  24,  1983,  in  Worcester.  She  grad- 
uated from  Wheaton  College,  Norton,  MA,  and 
is  in  the  personnel  administration  department  of 
Computervision  Corp.  in  Bedford.  Paul  is  engi- 
neering manager  of  Procter  &  Gamble  in 
Quincy,  MA.  .  .  .  Dean  Arvidson,  Jr.,  and 
Cathleen  Linehan,  '80,  on  October  15,  1983, 
in  Milton,  MA.  Cathleen  is  with  DEC  and  Dean 
with  Norton  Co.  He  has  his  MBA  from  Boston 
College  School  of  Management.  .  .  .  Andrew 
Corman  to  Judith  Pack  on  November  26,  1 983 , 
in  Wheeling,  WV.  Judith,  who  is  a  personal-line 
analyst  with  Aetna  Life  and  Casualty  Co. ,  grad- 
uated from  Marshall  University.  Andrew  works 
for  Turner  Construction  Co.,  Columbus, 
OH.  .  .  .  Mark  Freitas  to  Anne  Marie  Nadeau 
on  October  22,  1983,  in  Norton,  MA.  She  grad- 
uated from  Potsdam  State  College.  Both  she  and 
Mark  are  employed  by  Codex  Corporation, 
Mansfield,  MA. 

MARRIED:  Martin  Grossman  and  Doreen 
Greenstein  on  October  30,  1983,  in  Andover, 
MA.  Doreen  graduated  from  Quinnipiac  Col- 
lege and  is  a  clinical  leader  of  occupational 
therapy  at  Lenox  Hill  Nursing  and  Rehab  Care 
Facility  in  Lynn.  Martin  is  a  computer  software 


engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Bedford.  .  .  .  Charles 
Marden,  Jr.,  and  Annette  Monty  on  October 
15,  1983,  in  Barre,  VT.  Annette  graduated 
from  Mary  Hitchcock  Memorial  Hospital 
School  of  Nursing  in  Hanover,  NH,  and  is  with 
the  Tufts  New  England  Medical  Center  in  Bos- 
ton. Charles  is  a  lieutenant  in  the  U.S. 
Navy.  .  .  .  Brian  McLane  and  Kathleen  Walsh 
on  September  24,  1983,  in  Maiden,  MA.  A 
customer  service  secretary  for  Mohawk  Data 
Sciences  in  Woburn,  she  graduated  from 
Maiden  High  School.  He  is  an  analog  design 
engineer  at  Lexidata  Corp.,  Billerica.  .  .  . 
Louis  Pelletier,  Jr.,  and  Paula  Aubuchon  in 
Fitchburg,  MA.  Paula  holds  a  BS  in  education 
from  Fitchburg  State  College  and  is  employed 
in  personnel  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  West- 
minster. Louis  is  vice  president  of  V  Pelletier 
&  Sons,  Fitchburg. 

BORN:  to  Pierre  Fleurant  and  Cathy  Ker- 
ley  Fleurant,  '79,  their  first  child,  William  Jo- 
seph, on  September  9,  1983.  In  October,  Pierre 
started  a  new  job  as  senior  design  engineer  for 
Clinical  Data  Inc.,  Boston.  The  company  de- 
signs, manufactures  and  markets  medical  elec- 
tronic products  and  provides  computer-assisted 
services  to  the  cardiovascular  and  pediatric 
markets. 

Andrea  Curtis  serves  as  product  marketing 
manager  at  Data  General  Corp.,   Westboro, 


MA.  Last  year,  she  received  her  MBA  from 
Boston  College. 

Elizabeth  Donahue  holds  the  post  of  director 
of  drug  and  alcohol  services  for  Health  Indus- 
tries of  America,  North  Augusta,  SC. 

Theodore  Erickson  is  superintendent  of  Gil- 
bert &  Bennett  Mfg.  Co.,  located  in  George- 
town, CT. 

John  Moulton  serves  as  a  senior  manufactur- 
ing engineer  at  Robert  Bosch  Corp. ,  Charleston 
Heights,  SC.  Recently  he  was  on  temporary 
assignment  in  West  Germany. 

Louis  Piazza  teaches  in  Milford,  MA. 

Sandra  Hoyle  Renda  is  a  senior  engineer  for 
DEC  in  Littleton,  MA. 


1979 


Reunion 


September  22, 1984 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Kapurch  to  Kim  Mac- 
Donald  in  Hamilton,  Ontario,  Canada,  on  Sep- 
tember 10,  1983.  Kim  graduated  from  G.E. 
Perdue  School  in  Oakville,  Canada,  and  was  a 
secretary  for  the  Canadian  Armed  Forces  at 
Lockheed  in  Burbank,  CA.  Stephen  is  project 
manager  at  the  Pacific  Missile  Test  Center  in 
Point  Mugu.  .  .  .  Michael  Poirier  and  Laura 


46       WPI  JOURNAL 


Mattick,  '78,  on  October  8,  1983,  in  Newark, 
DE.  .  .  .  Robert  Schifiliti  to  Christine  Wen- 
ninger on  November  5.  1983,  in  Pittsburgh. 
She  holds  nursing  degrees  from  Syracuse  Uni- 
versity and  Boston  University  and  is  a  clinical 
nurse  specialist  for  Baystate  Medical  Center, 
Springfield,  MA.  A  systems  consultant  for 
Massachusetts  Fire  Alarms  of  New  England  in 
Lowell,  MA.  Schifiliti  is  also  a  candidate  for  a 
master's  degree  in  fire  protection  engineering  at 
WPI. 

C.  Steve  Anderson  has  been  appointed  chief 
engineer  of  ball  valves  at  Jamesbury  Corp., 
Worcester.  For  the  past  ten  years,  he  has  been 
involved  in  ball  valve  research,  design  and  de- 
velopment at  Jamesbury. 

Dr.  James  Armitage  holds  the  post  of  senior 
engineer  forGTE's  strategic  systems  division  in 
Westboro,  MA. 

Gerard  DeRome  is  section  manager  at  Bur- 
roughs Corp.,  Danbury,  CT. 

John  Gordeuk,  who  is  with  Link  Electron- 
ics, Houston,  TX,  is  a  physicist  for  the  space 
shuttle  mission  simulation. 

Kathleen  Lies  Hallren  is  currently  an  asso- 
ciate attorney  with  Hieronymus  Hodgden  & 
Meyer,  Woodward,  OK.  She  received  her  JD 
degree  from  the  University  of  Oklahoma  in 
1982. 

Dorothy  Hamilton  is  a  lecturer  in  chemistry 
at  Smith  College,  Northampton,  MA. 

Larry  Marino  has  been  promoted  to  district 
staff  manager  for  support  of  general  business 
market  sales  operations  for  the  Northeast  region 
of  AT&T  Communications.  He  is  located  in 
Manhattan. 

James  Sloss  works  as  project  manager  at  In- 
ternational Technologies,  Martinez,  CA. 

Jeffrey  Stickles  continues  as  operations 
manager  at  Visual  Technology  in  Lowell,  MA. 

David  West  is  a  supervisor  of  track  for  NJ 
Transit  Rail  Operations  Inc.,  Hoboken. 

Karen  Wright  serves  as  a  senior  software 
engineer  at  System  Analysis  Corp.,  Wellesley, 
MA. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Joseph  Mayall  and  Catherine 
Kavanaugh  in  South  Dartmouth,  MA.  A  regis- 
tered nurse  at  Beth  Israel  Hospital,  Boston, 
Catherine  graduated  from  Boston  College.  Jo- 
seph is  with  Babcock  and  Wilcox  Engineering 
Co.  .  .  .  Thomas  McBride  and  Lynda  Shea 
recently  in  Shrewsbury,  MA.  She  graduated 
from  Becker  and  is  a  manager  of  Weathervane 
in  Auburn  Mall.  He  works  for  Stone  &  Webster 
in  Boston.  .  .  .  Stephen  Rehn  to  Joy  Beauvil- 
lier  on  October  15,  1983,  in  Watertown,  CT. 
Joy  graduated  from  UConn  and  attended  Rad- 
cliffe  Graduate  Seminars.  She  is  a  shortage  ana- 
lyst for  Filene's  in  Boston.  Stephen  is  a 
products  manager  for  Panametrics,  Waltham, 
MA.  He  also  is  a  lecturer  for  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity's state-of-the-art  engineering  program. 

MARRIED:  Richard  Stephens  and 
Deborah  Peters  in  Excelsior,  PA,  on  September 
3,  1983.  Deborah  holds  a  BS  in  clothing  textiles 
and  design  from  the  University  of  Wis- 
consin. .  .  .  Charles  Sullivan  III  and  Colleen 
Bohan  in  New  York  City  in  December.  Col- 
leen, a  graduate  of  Regis  College,  Weston, 
MA,  works  for  Mutual  Benefit  Financial  Ser- 
vices in  Providence,  RI.  Charles  is  with  Fleet 


Financial  Group's  corporate  training  program, 
also  in  Providence. 

BORN:  to  John  and  Judy  Gemma-Sjostedt 
their  second  child,  Jennifer  Marie,  on  October 
10,  1983.  Brother  Peter  is  now  nearly  2.  Jenni- 
fer's grandfather  is  Rowland  Gemma,  '79 
SIM,  chief  estimator  at  Morgan  Construction 
Co.  Her  aunt  is  Jackie  Gemma,  '83,  a  CADS/ 
CAM  engineer  for  General  Dynamics.  Her  fa- 
ther, John,  is  still  employed  with  Du  Pont  and 
was  recently  promoted  to  laboratory  supervisor 
of  the  Washington  Works  Research  Facilities, 
Parkersburg,  WV. 

Jay  Bellingham  is  a  results  engineer  for  Po- 
tomac Electric  Power  Co.,  Washington,  DC. 

Currently,  Richard  and  Kathy  Grider  Cole- 
man are  residing  in  California,  where  he  is  with 
the  Janus  Combat  Simulation  Project  in  Liver- 
more.  Recently,  he  helped  in  a  project  presenta- 
tion to  the  Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff.  Previously  he 
was  with  the  administrative  data  processing 
group  at  Lawrence  Livermore  Labs.  Kathy, 
who  had  been  with  GE  Nuclear,  is  now  working 
for  Applied  Information  Memories  in  Milpitas, 
CA.  She  is  involved  with  the  next  generation  of 
computer  disks  and  drives. 

Tom  Daniels  holds  the  post  of  assistant  engi- 
neer at  Duke  Power  Company,  Charlotte,  NC. 
He  is  working  in  the  probabilistic  risk  assess- 
ment unit,  reactor  safety  group,  nuclear  engi- 
neering services. 

Timothy  D'Arcy  holds  the  post  of  territory 
manager  for  Parker  Hannifin  in  Cleveland, 
OH. 

Margaret  Davis  is  chairman  of  the  mathe- 
matics department  at  Concord/Carlisle  Re- 
gional High  School  in  Concord,  MA. 

Allan  Fish  is  New  England  district  manager 
forBalston  Inc.,  Lexington,  MA. 

Cathryn  Ricci  Giunta  has  been  promoted  to 
senior  packaging  engineer  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corporation,  Hudson,  MA. 

Carl  Hammer  writes:  "My  work  at  the 
church  is  shaping  up  a  bit.  Am  learning  to  cut 
corners  to  make  my  work  more  productive." 

Richard  Hennessy  is  a  quality  engineer  at 
Brown  &  Sharpe  Mfg.  Co.,  North  Kingstown, 
RI. 

David  Hoercher,  who  has  his  MS  in  electric 
power  engineering  from  RPI,  is  with  the  Stand- 
ard Oil  Co.,  Cleveland,  OH. 

Brian  Huntley  spoke  on  energy  issues  before 
the  North  Smithfield  (RI)  Kiwanis  Club  in  No- 
vember. He  is  associate  planning  engineer  with 
Eastern  Utilities  Association  (EUA)  Service 
Corporation,  the  parent  company  of  Blackstone 
Valley  Electric  Co.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1982. 

William  Jones  is  a  teacher  and  chairman  of 
the  mathematics  department  at  Springfield 
(MA)  Technical  High  School. 

Lisa  Krauss,  a  WPI  class  agent,  writes  that 
she  is  still  working  as  a  staff  engineer  in  prod- 
uct development  for  Procter  &  Gamble.  She 
enjoys  swimming,  weight  lifting,  softball  and 
"good  times  in  general  in  Cincinnati." 

Michael  J.  Lombardi  has  begun  his  first 
year  of  study  in  the  evening  division  at  New 
England  School  of  Law  in  Boston.  He  is  certi- 
fied in  nuclear-power  plant  design  by  Bechtel 
Power  Corporation. 

Robert  Mochi  works  for  Black  &  Veaton 
Engineers/Architects  in  Bethesda,  MD. 

Patricia  Monterio,  a  market  analyst  for 
Fluor  Corporation.  Irvine,  CA,  is  also  studying 
for  her  MBA  at  Pepperdine. 

John  Moriarty  and  two  other  Du  Pont  em- 


ployees recently  finished  in  sixth  place  in  the 
Budweiser  Light  U.S.  Triathlon  Series  in  Aus- 
tin, TX.  He  competed  in  the  15-kilometer  run. 
John  is  employed  at  Du  Pont's  chemicals  and 
pigments  plant  outside  of  Houston,  TX. 

Tom  Nowak  is  currently  a  major  with  the 
U.S.  Army  in  Europe. 

Alfred  Poon  is  a  software  engineer  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  MA. 

Thomas  Snead  is  an  assistant  chemist  at 
Ciba  Geigy  Corp.,  Ardsley,  NY. 

Paula  Mesite  Szkutak  is  employed  as  a  se- 
nior engineer  at  GTE  in  Research  Triangle 
Park,  NC. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Patricia  Ficociello  and  Stephen 
Gorgol  in  East  Brookfield,  MA,  on  October  15, 
1983.  Patricia  is  with  Corning  Medical  in  East 
Walpole,  MA.  Gorgol  graduated  from  Plym- 
outh (NH)  State  College  and  is  employed  by 
Memtech  Corp.,  Salem,  NH.  .  .  .  Robert  Gar- 
della,  Jr.,  and  Sandra  Hammond  in  Worcester 
on  September  3,  1983.  Previously  a  student  at 
Worcester  State  College,  Sandra  is  currently 
studying  at  the  University  of  Southern  Maine  in 
Gorham.  Bob  is  an  actuary  at  Union  Mutual, 
Portland.  .  .  .  Elizabeth  Morrison  and  David 
A I  lard  in  Moosup,  CT,  on  December  30,  1983. 
She  is  with  Electric  Boat.  He  attended  Plain- 
field  schools  and  is  a  self-employed  carpenter. 

MARRIED:  William  Morse  and  Anne 
Marie  Furey  in  Vernon,  CT,  on  October  15, 
1983.  She  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Hartford  and  he  serves  as  a  civil  engineer  for 
Ebasco.  .  .  .  Brian  Stoffers  and  Cathy  Martell 
in  North  Billerica,  MA,  on  October  8,  1983. 
Cathy  graduated  from  Burdett  Business  School 
and  is  with  Computervision,  Burlington,  MA. 
Brian,  who  has  both  a  BSEE  and  an  MSEE 
from  WPI,  works  for  Honeywell  in  Bil- 
lerica. .  .  .  Stephen  Zalewski  and  Kathleen 
Brennan  in  Holyoke,  MA,  on  November  19, 
1983.  She  graduated  from  George  Washington 
University  Law  School  and  is  a  contract  admin- 
istrator for  Bolt  Beranek  and  Newman  Inc., 
Cambridge,  MA.  He  serves  as  a  software  engi- 
neer for  DEC  in  Nashua,  NH. 

George  Awiszus  is  a  design  engineer  with 
GE  in  Fitchburg,  MA.  He  is  also  studying  for 
his  MS  at  WPI. 

Arthur  Beaubien  continues  as  an  electronics 
design  engineer  at  Frequency  &  Time  Systems 
in  Beverly,  MA. 

Cynthia  Canistro  is  a  material  controller  at 
Sanders  in  Nashua,  NH. 

John  Coffey  works  as  a  design  engineer  for 
Data  Precision/Analogic  in  Danvers,  MA. 

David  Jacobs  is  a  radiological  physicist  for 
the  Air  Force  Weapons  Laboratory,  Kirtland 
AFB,  NM. 

Clifton  Jones  works  for  Whitman  and 
Howard  Inc.,  Wellesley,  MA. 

1st  Lt.  Mark  Malenbaum  is  with  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  space  division  in  El  Segundo,  CA. 

Lory  Molesky  serves  as  a  systems  program- 
mer for  New  York  State  in  Stony  Brook. 

Eduardo  Navarro  is  an  MBA  student  at 
Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business,  Dartmouth 
College. 

John  Payne  is  employed  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer at  Automatix  in  Billerica,  MA. 

Stanley  Siver  is  now  a  Naval  officer  in  Na- 


MAY  1984       47 


Molinari  with  products  in  hand 

His  Data  Translation 
Keeps  on  Growing 

Ten  years  ago  Data  Translation  Inc.  was  a 
shaky,  start-up  company  located  above  a 
deli  in  downtown  Framingham,  MA.  To- 
day it's  situated  in  a  30,000-square-foot 
building  in  Marlboro,  employs  125  and 
holds  the  largest  share  of  the  market  for  a 
specialized  computer  board  peripheral. 

"For  three  years  in  a  row  we've  made 
Inc.  magazine's  list  of  the  500  fastest- 
growing  privately  held  companies  in 
America,"  reports  Fred  Molinari,  '63  EE, 
president  and  a  founder  of  the  company. 
"This  puts  us  in  kind  of  a  special  place," 
he  adds.  "But  as  you  get  a  little  bigger,  it's 
harder  to  keep  up  the  pace." 

Data  Translation  manufactures  a  periph- 
eral device  that  allows  computers  to  under- 
stand signals  from  sensors,  such  as 
thermocouples,  pressure  transducers  and 
accelerometers.  One  of  the  benefits  of  the 
device  is  that  it  gives  computers  the  facil- 
ity to  measure  and  control  machines  man- 


aging in  industrial  environments. 

The  firm  has  shown  extraordinary 
growth.  Sales  were  $1.4  million  in  1978, 
$8.1  million  in  1982  and  $10.5  million  in 
1983.  Advances  in  computer  technology 
coupled  with  customer  demand  for  more 
sophisticated  use  of  their  machines  have 
spurred  sales. 

Fred,  formerly  a  vice  president  and  mar- 
keting manager  at  Analog  Devices,  says  of 
success  in  general,  "You  have  to  have  a 
product  that  has  a  growing  market.  You 
have  to  find  something  that  you  enjoy  do- 
ing, as  well." 

And,  he  contends,  "You  can  never 
know  or  study  enough.  I'd  like  to  be  going 
to  school  now.  There's  so  much  to  learn." 
He  holds  an  MSEE  from  Northeastern  and 
an  MBA  from  Harvard. 

In  his  spare  time,  Fred  enjoys  tennis, 
golf,  squash  and  skiing.  He  and  his  wife, 
Maureen,  have  four  children:  John,  a  se- 
nior at  Middlebury  College;  Deborah,  a 
junior  at  Assumption;  Kristin,  a  sopho- 
more at  St.  Marks  School,  Southboro;  and 
Liza,  3,  at  home. 


val  aviation  intelligence  serving  on  the  USS 
John  F.  Kennedy,  an  aircraft  carrier  in  the  East- 
em  Mediterranean. 

Jeff  Trask  has  been  working  on  a  hazardous- 
waste  refinery  permit  while  on  a  temporary  as- 
signment at  the  Chevron  U.S.A.  refinery  in 
Pascagoula,  MS. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Joseph  Amarello  to  Susan 
Keegan  on  November  26,  1983,  in  Cranston, 
RI.  He  is  an  ensign  in  the  U.S.  Navy  stationed 
at  New  London.  CT.  .  .  .  Christopher  Lord 

and  Julia  Odlin  in  Tacoma,  WA.  Julia  gradu- 


ated from  Centenary  College  in  New  Jersey. 
Christopher  is  an  electrical  engineer. 

MARRIED:  William  McGrath  to  Cheryl 
Steele  in  Worcester  on  November  5,  1983.  She 
graduated  from  Boston  University  and  is  em- 
ployed by  Reed  Plastics  Corp.  in  Holden.  He  is 
with  the  Connecticut  Department  of  Transpor- 
tation in  Hartford.  .  .  .  Alfred  Sawtelle  and 
Nancy  Bibeault  on  October  29,  1983.  in  Black- 
stone.  MA.  Nancy  graduated  from  St.  Vincent 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  .  .  .  Timothy 
Stone  to  Elaine  Young  on  October  29,  1983, 
in  Hudson.  NH.  Elaine  graduated  from 
Becker.  .  .  .  Richard  Wurm  and  Katherine 
Coghlan,  '81,  on  September  3.  1983,  in  New- 
ton, MA.  Richard  is  with  New  England  Tele- 
phone in  Brockton. 


Richard  Bame  is  an  administrative  assistant 
for  Toyota  Motor  Distributors  Inc.,  Engle- 
wood.  CO. 

Frank  Bilotta  works  as  new  product  project 
manager  at  Data  General.  Southboro,  MA. 

Andrew  Buttress  works  for  Hughes  Aircraft 
Co.  in  Fullerton.  CA. 

Lewis  Capobianco,  who  has  his  MBA  from 
WPI.  is  project  manager  for  the  Barletta  Co. 
Inc..  Roslindale.  MA. 

Pat  Doody  is  with  Boston  Edison  in  Brain- 
tree,  MA. 

Cynthia  Gagnon  is  now  a  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Lincroft,  NJ. 

Lynn  Gustafson  is  employed  as  a  manufac- 
turing process  quality  engineer  for  the  GE  Mili- 
tary Systems  Electronics  Operations  in 
Syracuse,  NY. 

Charles  Kincaid  is  a  civil  engineer  for  the 
Nevada  Department  of  Transportation  in  Car- 
son City. 

Mike  Kirschner  is  employed  as  a  quality  and 
reliability  engineer  at  Intel  Corporation,  Santa 
Clara.  CA. 

Eric  Krichbaum,  formerly  a  project  engi- 
neer for  Westinghouse  in  Beaver,  PA,  has  been 
transfered  to  Ashville.  NC. 

Mark  Lepkowski  works  for  the  optics  group 
at  Gentex  Corp.,  Dudley,  MA. 

Mary  Elizabeth  Martin  is  employed  as  a 
scientific  programmer/analyst  at  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  CT. 

Paul  Moruzzi  is  a  mechanical  design  engi- 
neer for  DEC  in  Maynard,  MA. 

Lawrence  Moss  works  for  Sperry  Electronic 
Systems.  Great  Neck,  NY. 

Man  Ann  O'Connor,  formerly  with  Sof- 
tech,  is  now  at  Prime  Computer  in 
Framingham,  MA. 

Sandra  Paille  is  an  associate  mechanical  en- 
gineer at  Killmorgen  Corp.,  Northampton, 
MA. 

David  Peternell  serves  as  an  associate  pro- 
grammer at  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

Ronald  Pettit  works  for  Bell  Labs  in  Piscata- 
way.  NJ.  Last  year  he  received  his  MS  in  com- 
puter science  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin. 

Albert  Reinhart  holds  the  post  of  president 
at  Ventec  Management  Group,  Boylston,  MA. 

John  Sansoucy  is  a  product  engineer  for  De- 
sign Components  Inc.,  Franklin,  MA. 

Alfred  Santos,  an  electrical  engineer  with  the 
Torrington  Company  in  Connecticut,  and  his 
wife,  Susan  Mae,  live  in  Canton  Center. 

Prof.  Helen  Vassal  In.  of  W  Pi's  management 
and  biology  and  biotechnology  department, 
spoke  before  the  Worcester  branch  of  the  Bos- 
ton University  Alumnae  Association  and  the 
Pennsylvania  chapters  of  the  American  Busi- 
ness Women's  Association  last  October.  In  De- 
cember, she  was  elected  a  new  corporator  of 
People's  Bank,  Worcester. 

Brian  Walker  is  with  UTC  in  Springfield, 
MA. 

David  Webb  is  employed  as  an  engineer  II  at 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Marlboro,  MA. 

Loraine  Webster  is  at  Clark  University. 

Terry  Wheeler  continues  with  the  Peace 
Corps  in  Honduras. 


1983 


MARRIED:  Thomas  Barrett  and  Colleen 
Walsh  in  Wobum,  MA.  She  graduated  from 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


Stoneham  High  School  and  is  a  secretary  at  the 
University  of  Hartford.  He  is  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in  Hartford.  .  .  .  Paul  Cot- 
noir  and  Mary  Bousquet  in  Putnam,  CT,  on 
July  9,  1983.  She  graduated  from  Becker  and  is 
a  legal  secretary.  Currently,  Paul  is  a  graduate 
student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  James  Cull  it  on,  Jr.,  and 
Kathleen  Farrell  in  Dalton,  MA,  on  November 
5.  1983.  Kathleen  graduated  from  Lasell  Junior 
College  and  teaches  at  the  Early  Childhood  De- 
velopment Center  in  Pittsfield.  Jim  works  for 
Allegrone  Construction  Co. 

MARRIED:  Peter  Fontana,  Jr.,  and  Janet 
Sheehan  in  South  Weymouth.  MA.  Janet  grad- 
uated from  Fitchburg  State  College  and  is  a 
registered  nurse  at  Brigham  and  Women's  Hos- 
pital. Peter  serves  as  a  software  engineer  at 
Computervision  Corporation.  .  .  .  Paul 
Granger  and  Stephanie  Linek  on  September 
18,  1983,  in  Worcester.  A  teacher  at  Nipmuc 
Regional  High  School.  Mendon,  MA,  Stepha- 
nie graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College.  Paul 
is  an  ensign  with  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve  and  is 
stationed  at  Saratoga  Springs,  NY.  .  .  .  Rom 
Juozokas  and  Sally  Czarnecki  in  Pomfret,  CT, 
on  December  3,  1983.  She  graduated  from 
Eastern  Connecticut  State  University  in  Willi- 
mantic.  He  graduated  from  Assumption,  has  a 
master's  degree  in  computer  science  from  WPI 
and  works  as  a  software  analyst  with  Sanders 
Associates  in  Nashua,  NH.  .  .  .  Laura  Zar- 
rella  and  James  Dion  on  October  1,  1983.  in 
Fitchburg,  MA.  Laura  is  an  electrical  engineer 
with  Polaroid  Corp.  Jim  graduated  from  Sylva- 
nia  Technical  School  and  is  a  field  engineer  at 
Plessey  Peripheral  Systems. 

John  Baczewski  is  an  associate  engineer  at 
Westinghouse  Electric  in  Baltimore,  MD. 

Stephen  Benner  has  accepted  a  post  as  man- 
ufacturing engineer  with  Texas  Instruments, 
Attleboro,  MA. 

Carla  Blakslee  is  a  systems  design  engineer 
with  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Andy  Crosby  is  now  employed  by  Nano- 
metrics  Inc.,  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Nancy  Fortier  is  a  teaching  assistant  at  Iowa 
State  University  in  Ames. 

Raymond  Haarstick  serves  as  an  account 
executive  with  American  Bell-Advanced  Infor- 
mation Systems  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Linda  Hall  is  a  software  engineer  at  Coulter 
Biomedical  Research  Corp.,  Concord,  MA. 

Susan  Godbout  Hersey  is  currently  an  engi- 
neer-in-training at  EUA  Service  Corp.,  Lin- 
coln, RI. 

2nd  Lt.  Timothy  Horan  has  completed  an 
ammunition  officer  course  at  the  U.S.  Army 
Missile  and  Munitions  Center  and  School,  Red- 
stone Arsenal,  AL. 

Jane  Jaillet  is  a  civil-engineering  assistant 
with  the  County  of  Los  Angeles  (CA)  Road 
Department.  She  resides  in  Manhattan  Beach. 

Michael  Jasminski  writes.  "I  am  designing 
highways  for  the  county  of  Los  Angeles."  He 
lives  in  Seal  Beach,  CA. 

Leonard  LaPadula  works  for  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Lewisville,  TX. 

Wayne  Lawson  has  accepted  a  post  as  struc- 
tural engineer  at  Lev  Zetlin  Associates,  Boston. 

David  Lind  is  a  design  engineer  at  Teradyne 
in  Boston. 

Timothy  Morse  has  accepted  the  post  of  en- 
gineer with  the  process  engineering  group 
of  the  technical  department  at  Westvaco's 
bleached-board  division  in  Covington,  VA.  He 
joined  the  company  last  June  as  technical  assis- 


tant in  the  technical  department.  Briefly,  he 
worked  on  assignments  for  power  maintenance, 
then  returned  to  the  technical  department. 

Joseph  Phetan  works  for  GE  Ordnance  Sys- 
tems in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Robert  Plante  is  now  with  the  Southern  Cal- 
ifornia Gas  Company  in  Los  Angeles. 

David  Rainone  works  as  a  field  designer  at 
Stone  &  Webster,  Waterford.  CT. 

Robert  Reinfurt  is  an  industrial  engineer  at 
Simonds  Cutting  Tools  in  Fitchburg,  MA. 

John  Salvadore  works  for  Eaton  Corpora- 
tion. He  is  located  in  New  Britain.  CT. 

Richard  Seaver  is  employed  as  a  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  NEC  Information  Systems  in 
Woburn.  MA. 

Ruth  Sespaniak  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  the  Mitre  Corp.,  Bedford,  MA. 

Paul  Sydney  serves  as  a  second  lieutenant 
and  physicist  for  the  US  Air  Force.  Kirtland 
AFB.  NM. 

Michael  Thys  is  a  hardware  instructor  for 
Wang  Laboratories  Inc.,  Lowell,  MA. 

Richard  Tolles  is  a  computer  engineer  with 
MicroWare  in  Kingston.  MA. 

Michael  Treglia  is  with  the  General  Dy- 
namics' Electric  Boat  Division  in  Groton,  CT. 

Charles  Woodman  works  for  GE  in  Louis- 
ville. KY. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

In  October,  Peter  Morgan,  '55,  vice  president 
of  Morgan  Construction  Co.,  Worcester,  re- 
ceived the  15th  annual  Bardwell  H.  Flower 
Award  for  his  contributions  on  behalf  of  emo- 
tionally disturbed  children.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  sesquicentennial  committee  of  Worcester 
State  Hospital,  which  celebrated  its  150th  anni- 
versary last  year.  He  is  a  former  board  member 
of  the  Child  Guidance  Association  and  is  a  di- 
rector of  the  Worcester  YMCA,  the  Worcester 
County  Music  Association  and  the  Worcester 
County  Mechanics  Association.  .  .  .  Guy  Nich- 
ols, '56,  chairman,  president  and  chief  execu- 
tive officer  of  the  New  England  Electric 
System,  has  been  appointed  chairman  of  the 
1984  U.S.  Savings  Bonds  campaign  for  the 
public-utilities  industry  by  U.S.  Treasury  Sec- 


retary Donald  Regan.  .  .  .  Bill  Lechman,  '64, 

has  been  named  president  of  the  Fairfield  Man- 
ufacturing Company  Inc.,  a  Rexnord  company 
located  in  Lafayette,  IN.  Previously,  he  was 
director  of  manufacturing  in  chain  operations 
for  Rexnord's  mechanical  power  division  in 
Milwaukee.  He  joined  Rexnord  in  1956  at  the 
firm's  Worcester  plant,  then  moved  to 
Springfield,  MA,  as  plant  manager  of  the 
roller-chain  operation. 

Irvin  Havens,  '66,  is  now  manager  of  prod- 
uct development  at  Bay  State  Abrasives  in 
Westboro,  MA.  With  the  firm  since  1957,  he 
has  served  as  manager  of  inorganic-product  de- 
velopment and  bonded  abrasives  since  1965. 
He  will  continue  his  responsibility  for  inor- 
ganic-product development.  He  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  a  graduate  of  Alfred 
University,  and  he  holds  an  MS  in  ceramic  en- 
gineering from  Clemson. 

Roy  Moffa,  '77,  program  manager  for  Digi- 
tal Equipment  Corporation's  32-bit  Micro's 
VAX  computers,  is  joining  Pixel  Computer 
Inc.,  Wilmington,  MA,  as  president  and  chief 
executive  officer.  From  1978  to  1980  he  was 
manager  of  Digital's  central  engineering  small 
systems  group.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1969  to 
help  develop  the  original  PDP-11  computer. 
His  new  firm.  Pixel,  manufactures  and  markets 
a  family  of  super-mini-computer  systems. 


Natural  Science  Program 

Frank  Matarese,  '60,  has  been  appointed 
superintendent  of  schools  in  Stoneham,  MA.  Prior 
to  his  promotion,  he  had  been  assistant 
superintendent  for  a  number  of  years.  In  1950  he 
received  his  BA  in  social  studies  with  a  minor  in 
education  from  UMass,  as  well  as  a  master's 
degree  in  education  from  Tufts.  After  four  years  as 
a  teacher-coach  at  Buriington  Junior- Senior  High 
School,  he  joined  the  Stoneham  school  system, 
where  for  28  years  he  has  been  a  teacher,  coach 
and  administrator.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Barrows,  '64, 
who  has  been  chairperson  for  the  science 
department  at  Gateway  Regional  High  School, 
Huntington,  MA,  since  the  school  opened  in 
1963,  also  teaches  summer  school  at  Smith 
College  in  Northampton.  He  graduated  from 
UMass. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Edward  Wright,  '06,  a  retired  sanitary  engi- 
neer for  the  Massachusetts  Department  of  Pub- 
lic Health,  died  November  25,  1983,  in  Nor- 
wood, MA. 

He  was  born  on  Feb.  18,  1884,  in  Worcester 
and  later  studied  civil  engineering  at  WPI.  Af- 
ter retiring  in  1954  with  47  years'  service  with 
the  Department  of  Public  Health,  he  received  a 
citation  from  former  governor  Christian  Herter. 

Mr.  Wright  was  a  town  meeting  member  for 
48  years  in  Dedham,  MA,  where  he  also  had 
served  as  chairman  of  the  town  drainage  and 
water  committees.  He  was  active  with  the  local 
Episcopal  Church.  He  belonged  to  SAE  and  the 
ASE,  and  he  was  a  fellow  of  the  American 


Public  Health  Association.  Formerly,  he  was 
chairman  of  the  state  reclamation  board.  In 
World  War  I  he  served  as  a  captain  in  the  U.S. 
Army. 

Edward  J.  Tucker,  '12,  a  former  hospital  ad- 
ministrator, died  in  Worcester  City  Hospital  on 
October  2,  1983,  at  the  age  of  93.  He  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer. 

Early  in  his  career,  he  was  in  charge  of  con- 
struction and  administration  of  the  water-purifi- 
cation plant  at  the  Panama  Canal.  Later,  he  was 
a  plumbing  and  heating  contractor  in  New  Ha- 
ven, CT,  and  a  consulting  engineer  in  Mon- 
treal. Quebec.  Canada.  From  1924  to  1956.  he 


MAY  1984       49 


was  supervising  engineer  for  Worcester  City 
Hospital  and  from  1956  to  1958.  he  was  assis- 
tant superintendent  at  the  former  Belmont  Hos- 
pital. Following  his  retirement,  he  was  a  self- 
emploved  design  engineer.  Faim  1917  to  1920. 
he  was  a  major  with  the  U  S.  Army,  attached  to 
the  Surgeon  General's  Office. 

He  had  belonged  to  the  ASME.  the  ASCE 
and  the  New  England  Water  Works  Associa- 
tion. He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer 
and  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers. 

F.  Holman  Waring,  '12,  a  retired  chief  engi- 
neer for  the  Ohio  State  Department  of  Health, 
died  recently.  A  native  of  Saratoga  Springs. 
NY,  he  was  born  on  October  5.  1890. 

After  receiving  his  BSCE  from  WPI.  he 
joined  Metcalf  &  "Eddy.  From  1916  to  1961.  he 
was  with  the  Ohio  State  Department  of  Health. 
He  had  served  as  assistant  engineer  with  the 
City  of  Cincinnati's  consulting  engineers  and  as 
operating  engineer  and  chemist  for  the  U.S. 
government  at  water-purification  plants  in  the 
Panama  Canal  Zone.  For  many  years,  he  was 
secretary  of  the  Ohio  River  Vallev  Water  Sani- 
tation Commission. 

Mr.  Waring,  who  belonged  to  PGD  and 
Sigma  Xi.  served  as  best  man  at  Chet  Inman's. 
'14.  wedding.  He  was  a  life  member  of  the 
ASCE.  the  National  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers,  the  American  Water  Works  Associ- 
ation, the  Water  Pollution  Control  Federation 
and  the  American  Public  Health  Association.  A 
registered  civil  engineer  and  surveyor  in  Ohio, 
he  was  also  active  with  the  Camp  Fire  Girls 
Council  and  the  Masons.  In  1968.  he  received 
the  Goddard  Award  from  WPI. 

C.  Eric  Waldo,  '14,  of  Plainville.  CT.  died  on 
December  15.  1983.  following  a  brief  illness. 
He  was  91  and  a  native  of  Windsor  Locks.  CT. 
After  studying  civil  engineering  at  WPI.  he 
enlisted  in  the  26th  Yankee  Division  in  World 
War  I  and  received  the  Purple  Heart  in  the  bat- 
tle at  Chateau-Thierry.  France.  He  had  been 
associated  with  New  Departure  Mfg.  Co.  and 
Wallace  Barnes  Co..  both  of  Bristol.  CT.  He 
was  secretary-treasurer  of  Plainville  Lumber  & 
Coal  Co.  from  1924  until  1972.  In  addition  to 
being  active  with  the  Boy  Scouts.  Mr.  Waldo 
had  been  president  of  the  local  Community 
Chest  and  a  director  of  the  former  Plainville 
Trust  Co.  He  belonged  to  ATO.  the  Masons 
and  the  American  Legion. 

Thomas  A.  Coyne,  '15,  former  superintendent 
of  public  works  for  the  City  of  Marlboro.  MA, 
passed  away  in  Worcester  on  October  15.  1983. 
at  the  age  of  90. 

Mr.  Coyne,  who  was  born  in  Marlboro,  grad- 
uated from  Little  Rock  College,  AR.  and  had  a 
master's  degree  from  Manhattanv  ille  College  in 
New  York.  Until  his  retirement  in  1963.  he  was 
general  superintendent  for  the  Carlo  Bianchi 
Construction  Co.  Inc.  for  27  years. 

He  had  served  as  superintendent  of  public 
works  in  Marlboro  and  Framingham.  A  Marine 
veteran  of  World  War  I.  he  received  the  Purple 
Heart  for  service  in  France. 

Robert  E.  Lamb,  '16,  died  recently  at  his 
home  in  Deerfield  Beach,  FL.  He  was  born  in 
Worcester  on  September  30.  1893.  and  held  a 
BSEE  and  a  professional  engineering  degree 
from  WPI 
During  his  career,  he  was  with  Norton  Co., 


John  Bath  &  Co.  and  Metal  Cutting  Tool  Insti- 
tute. From  1940  to  1959,  he  was  president  of 
his  own  firm.  Republic  Gage  Co..  Detroit.  In 
1960.  he  retired  to  Florida. 

Mr.  Lamb  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi.  the  Masons 
(Past  Master),  the  American  Legion  (com- 
mander) and  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Auxiliary. 
He  was  a  former  vice  president  of  the  Detroit 
chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  and 
Council  representative.  A  member  of  the 
ASME.  he  also  was  an  emeritus  member  of  the 
U.S.  Department  of  Commerce.  Business  and 
Defense  Services  Administration. 

Albert  E.  Luke,  '16,  formerly  with  Harrington 
&  Richardson.  Worcester,  died  in  Gardner. 
MA,  on  December  23.  1983.  He  was  born  in 
Putnam.  CT.  on  March  17.  1894. 

After  graduating  with  his  BSME.  he  was 
briefly  with  Reed  Prentice.  Bethlehem  Ship- 
building Corp..  Scovell-Wellington  and  Geo. 
A.  Vaughan  &  Co.  From  1924  to  1954.  he  was 
associated  with  several  affiliates  of  Sears  Roe- 
buck, including  the  former  Florence  Stove  Co.. 
which  he  served  as  an  executive.  From  1955  to 
1962.  he  was  executive  vice  president  and  di- 
rector of  Harrington  &  Richardson. 

Mr.  Luke,  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 
wa>  a  50-year  member  of  the  Masons  and  had 
belonged  to  the  Controllers'  Institute  and  the 
advisory  board  of  the  Westminster  Industrial 
Development  Commission. 

Richard  M.  Daniels,  '17,  of  South  Yarmouth. 
MA.  a  retired  instrument  specialist  with  the 
WPI  electrical  engineering  department,  passed 
away  on  December  20.  1983. 

He  was  born  in  Swampscott.  MA.  on  Dec.  4, 
1894.  At  WPI,  he  was  concerned  with  electri- 
cal instrument  maintenance  and  calibration. 
During  World  War  II.  he  was  a  radio  and  elec- 
tronics instructor.  He  belonged  to  ATO.  In  his 
spare  time,  he  was  an  avid  ham  radio  operator. 

Leland  A.  Gardner,  '17,  of  Summit.  NJ,  died 
on  November  4,  1983.  A  native  of  Rutland. 
VT.  he  was  bom  on  Oct.  13.  1894. 

After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engineer,  he 
joined  the  Navy  and  saw  service  on  the  USS 
Pennsylvania  and  the  USS  Wisconsin.  Later  he 
worked  for  AT&T,  and  then  became  chief  engi- 
neer of  the  E.A.  Laboratories  in  Brooklyn, 
manufacturers  of  automotive  equipment.  For  a 
time  he  headed  his  own  neon-sign  business  in 
Irvington,  NJ.  For  many  years,  he  was  with  the 
Bell  Telephone  Labs  in  New  York  City.  He  had 
several  patents  on  wire  printers  and  stock-quo- 
tation boards. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  a 
past  president  of  the  New  York  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Hartley  C.  Humphrey,  '17,  an  electrical  engi- 
neer who  participated  in  the  development  of 
sound  tracks  for  films  during  the  infancy  of  the 
"talking"  motion  picture  industry,  died  Decem- 
ber 21,  1983.  in  Hanover.  PA.  He  was  87  and  a 
native  of  Brooklyn.  NY. 

As  a  boy,  he  had  one  of  the  first  Marconi 
radio  sets  in  New  England.  In  World  War  I,  he 
was  a  radioman  in  the  U.S.  Navy. 

During  his  career,  he  worked  for  Western 
Union  Telegraph  Co..  AT&T.  Bell  Telephone 
Labs,  Warner  Bros.-Vitaphone  Corp..  Electri- 
cal Research  Products  Inc..  and  Westinghouse 
Electric.  International  (Radio  Communications 


&  Broadcasting  Dept.).  He  helped  pioneer  the 
first  >ound  recording  for  a  "talking"  movie 
with  Hie  Jazz  Singer  in  1927.  In  addition,  he 
worked  with  movie  moguls  Sam  Goldwyn. 
Louis  B.  Mayer  and  Howard  Hughes,  and  re- 
corded famous  artists  for  the  Metropolitan  Op- 
era of  New  York. 

A  consultant  to  the  English  and  German  mo- 
tion picture  industries,  he  traveled  extensively 
in  Europe,  as  well  as  in  Central  and  South 
America.  During  World  War  II.  he  helped  de- 
velop the  first  high-speed  tinplating  process  for 
Bethlehem  Steel,  helped  refine  automatic  tank 
turret  guns  at  Edgewood  Arsenal  and  did  X-ray 
work  for  Westinghouse. 

He  belonged  to  the  IRE  and  the  Society  of 
Motion  Picture  Engineers.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  Masons  and  of  the  Society  of  the  Cincin- 
nati, which  is  comprised  of  direct  descendants 
of  officers  on  George  Washington's  staff. 

Walker  Armington  III,  '21,  a  Worcester  na- 
tive, died  November  28.  1983.  in  Ridgewood. 
NJ.  at  the  age  of  84. 

He  studied  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI 
and  received  a  bachelor's  degree  in  economics 
from  the  Wharton  School  of  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  in  1923.  Before  retiring  in  1965. 
he  worked  16  years  at  Dennison  Mfg.  Co.  in 
Framingham  and  25  years  at  Union  Camp 
Corp.,  New  York  City 

Active  with  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America,  he 
became  president  of  his  local  BSA  council  and 
in  1960  received  the  Silver  Beaver  Award.  He 
was  an  elder  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  a 
member  of  the  Masons  and  president  of  Hobby- 
ists Unlimited  in  Ridgewood. 

Harold  S.  Black,  '21,  who  was  named  to  the 
National  Inventors  Hall  of  Fame  in  1981  for 
discovering  one  of  the  most  important  concepts 
in  the  field  of  electronics  and  long-distance 
communications,  died  December  11.  1983.  in 
Summit.  NJ.  A  scientist  and  engineer  with 
AT&T  Bell  Laboratories  until  his  retirement  in 
1963.  Dr.  Black  was  85. 

On  August  6.  1927.  while  traveling  by  Lack- 
awanna ferry  to  his  New  York  City  laboratory. 
Dr.  Black  conceived  the  theory  of  "negative 
feedback"— the  long-sought  solution  to  prob- 
lems of  distortion  in  the  amplification  of  com- 
munication signals.  He  used  a  page  of  the  New- 
York  Times  to  sketch  a  negative  feedback  cir- 
cuit. 

In  negative  feedback,  part  of  the  communica- 
tion signal  coming  from  an  amplifier  is  fed  back 
and  compared  with  the  original  signal  so  that 
distortions  can  be  pre-corrected  and  largely 
eliminated.  The  feedback  theory  fostered  devel- 
opment of  automatic  control  systems  and  the 
basic  principle  came  to  be  regarded  as  one  of 
the  cornerstones  of  modem  engineering.  The 
principle  found  application  in  high-fidelity 
sound  reproduction  and  in  such  diverse  fields  as 
biomechanics,  digital  computers  and  artificial 
limbs  for  the  disabled.  The  initial  patent 
awarded  to  Dr.  Black  was  one  of  347  patents  he 
was  granted. 

"Harold  Black's  invention  was  one  of  the 
great  engineering  accomplishments  of  all  time." 
said  William  H.  Doherty.  a  retired  director  of 
research  at  AT&T  Bell  Laboratories. 

Dr.  Black  was  bom  in  Leominster,  MA,  on 
April  14.  1898.  In  addition  to  his  BSEE.  he 
received  an  honorary  doctorate  in  engineering 
in  1955  and  the  Goddard  Award  in  1981  from 


50       WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta 
Pi. 

He  joined  the  Western  Electric  Engineering 
Department  in  1921.  In  1925,  at  Bell  Labs,  he 
was  in  charge  of  a  group  that  was  developing 
repeaters  and  other  circuits  for  carrier  telephone 
systems.  He  retired  as  head  of  Special  Commu- 
nications Research. 

During  World  War  II,  he  designed  pulse  code 
modulation  systems,  which  today  are  used 
widely  by  the  military  and  by  private  and  public 
communications  companies. 

Among  his  many  awards  are  the  National  As- 
sociation of  Manufacturers'  "A  Modern  Pio- 
neer" award;  the  Lamme  Gold  Medal  from  the 
AIEE;  the  John  H.  Potts  Memorial  Award  from 
the  Audio  Engineering  Society;  and  the  John 
Price  Wetherill  Medal  from  the  Franklin  Insti- 
tute. He  authored  two  books,  22  encyclopedia 
articles  and  numerous  scientific  papers. 

Charles  N.  Clarkson,  '22,  a  retired  Pacific 
Gas  &  Electric  Co.  (PG&E)  supervisor,  died  in 
Stockton,  CA,  on  January  2,  1984.  He  was  84 
and  a  native  of  Cambridge,  MA. 

With  PG&E  from  1923  until  his  retirement  in 
1964,  he  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI.  He  was  a  World  War  I  Army  vet- 
eran. 

Mr.  Clarkson,  a  member  of  the  Masons  for 
59  years  (Past  Master,  Knight  York  Cross  of 
Honor),  was  active  with  SIRS  (Sons  in  Retire- 
ment). He  was  a  past  president  of  the  state  of 
California  High  Twelve  Clubs.  He  belonged  to 
the  California  Society  of  Professional  Engi- 
neers. 

Wayne  E.  Keith,  '22,  a  WPI  trustee  emeritus, 
died  in  Brockton,  MA,  on  February  15,  1984, 
at  the  age  of  83.  He  was  born  in  Boston  and 
received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

Mr.  Keith  worked  for  the  Bell  System  for  40 
years  in  engineering,  administration  and  per- 
sonnel. He  started  his  career  as  a  student  engi- 
neer with  Bell  in  Pennsylvania,  then  served  in 
engineering  positions  for  New  England  Tele- 
phone in  Boston  from  1923  to  1955.  For  nine 
years,  until  his  retirement  in  1964,  he  was  gen- 
eral employment  and  training  supervisor  for  the 
Boston-based  company. 

He  was  the  permanent  president  of  the  Class 
of  '22,  a  former  vice  president  of  the  WPI 
alumni  association  and  past  president  of  the 
Boston  alumni  chapter.  From  1955  to  1978,  he 
was  a  member  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees. 
He  was  the  first  alumnus  to  serve  as  chairman 
of  the  board,  doing  so  from  1963  to  1968. 

While  Mr.  Keith  was  chairman  of  the  board 
of  trustees,  five  major  campus  buildings  were 
completed:  Daniels  Hall,  Goddard  Hall, 
George  C.  Gordon  Library,  the  administrative 
center  at  Alden  Research  Laboratory  and  Har- 
rington Auditorium.  It  was  during  his  tenure 
that  WPI  began  moving  toward  changes  in  the 
academic  program  which  led  to  the  develop- 
ment of  the  WPI  Plan. 

In  recognition  of  his  many  contributions  to 
WPI,  the  college  awarded  him  an  honorary  de- 
gree of  doctor  of  engineering  in  1966.  In  1972, 
the  Alumni  Association  presented  him  with  the 
Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award.  WPI's  ROTC  ap- 
pointed him  to  the  honorary  rank  of  cadet  colo- 
nel in  1964. 

In  1983,  the  Keith  Lecture  Hall  in  Atwater 
Kent  was  dedicated  in  his  honor.  The  last  para- 
graph on  the  dedication  plaque  reads:  "Wayne 


Keith  wore  the  mantle  of  responsibility  with 
grace,  dignity  and  humility.  He  led  by  soft- 
spoken  persuasion  and  by  example.  He  has  al- 
ways been,  above  all  else,  a  gentleman." 

Mr.  Keith  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  and 
Skull,  as  well  as  the  ASEE,  the  Eastern  College 
Personnel  Officers  Association,  the  IEEE,  the 
Newcomen  Society  of  North  America,  the 
Thorny  Lea  Golf  Club  and  Beverly  Yacht  Club. 
He  had  been  active  with  the  Boston  Community 
Fund  and  Red  Cross  fund-raising  drives.  A  Ma- 
son, he  had  also  been  past  president  of  the 
Cambridge  Kiwanis  Club,  the  '76  Club  of  Bos- 
ton and  the  Personnel  Managers  Club  of  Bos- 
ton. He  was  active  with  local  and  state  councils 
oftheYMCA. 

A  trustee  emeritus  of  Brockton  Hospital  and 
People's  Savings  Bank,  he  was  also  a  founder 
of  the  Brockton  Historical  Society,  a  director  of 
the  Republican  Club  of  Massachusetts  and  a 
member  of  the  Congregational  Church  of 
Brockton.  During  World  War  II,  he  was  assis- 
tant director  of  the  New  England  District  of 
Training  Within  Industry. 

James  A.  Whelpley,  '23,  of  Cincinnati,  OH, 
died  recently.  He  was  born  on  November  15, 
1900,  in  New  Brunswick,  Canada,  and  re- 
ceived his  BSME  from  WPI. 

Early  in  his  career,  he  worked  for  Public 
Service  Electric  &  Gas  Co.  of  New  Jersey. 
From  1929  until  his  retirement,  he  was  with 
Cincinnati  Gas  &  Electric  Co.,  serving  as  su- 
perintendent of  distribution,  then  as  assistant 
manager  of  gas  operations  and  as  manager  of 
gas  operations. 

He  belonged  to  the  American  Gas  Associa- 
tion, the  Cincinnati  Engineering  Society,  Poly 
Club,  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma 
Xi  and  Skull.  He  was  a  past  master  of  his  local 
Masonic  Lodge  and  a  Scottish  Rite  trustee. 

Luther  B.  Martin,  '25,  of  Westfield,  NJ.  a 
retired  manager  of  staff  engineering  for  Esso 
Research  and  Engineering  Company,  died  on 
December  20,  1983,  at  the  age  of  79.  He  was  a 
native  of  Chaplin,  CT. 

In  1925,  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI.  and  joined  Esso,  from  which  he 
retired  in  1961.  During  World  War  II,  he  was 
project  manager  on  the  construction  of  critical 
butyl  plant  projects  and  the  alcohol  projects  at 
Baton  Rouge.  He  was  the  project  manager  for 
Esso  refineries  in  England,  South  Africa,  India, 
Norway,  Italy,  France  and  Germany.  During 
his  last  four  years  with  the  firm,  he  was  respon- 
sible for  the  coordination  of  all  major  capital 
projects  handled  by  Esso  Engineering. 

Mr.  Martin  was  a  member  of  the  Presbyterian 
Church,  the  Echo  Lake  Country  Club.  SAE. 
Tau  Beta  Pi.  Sigma  Xi  and  the  Poly  Club.  He 
was  a  past  president  of  the  Northern  New  Jer- 
sey chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

George  L.  Esper,  '27,  a  former  public  works 
engineer,  died  July  23,  1983,  at  St.  Vincent 
Hospital  in  Worcester.  The  Worcester  native 
was  78. 

In  1974,  he  retired  from  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Public  Works,  following  44 
years  of  service.  Originally  with  the  Metropoli- 
tan District  Commission,  in  1930  he  joined  the 
state  Department  of  Public  Works  in  construc- 
tion of  the  Boston-Worcester  turnpike  and  the 
Southwest  cutoff.  After  the  flood  of  1936,  he 
designed  bridges.  In  1948,  he  was  promoted  to 


senior  supervising  engineer. 

He  belonged  to  the  Massachusetts  Society  of 
Land  Surveyors,  the  state  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers  and  the  Syrian-Lebanese- 
American  Association  of  Worcester.  He  was  a 
co-founder  of  Our  Lady  of  Perpetual  Help 
Church. 

J.  Kendall  Fullerton,  '29,  retired  sales  man- 
ager for  Simonds  Saw  and  Steel  Co.,  Fitch- 
burg,  MA,  died  at  his  home  in  Evanston,  IL,  on 
October  10,  1983,  at  the  age  of  75.  He  was 
born  in  Willimantic,  CT,  and  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI. 

He  retired  in  1971  after  42  years  with  Si- 
monds. During  his  career,  he  had  held  posts  in 
engineering  and  sales  engineering,  covering 
territories  from  Louisiana  and  Mississippi  to  the 
Midwest.  He  was  sales  manager  in  Chicago.  In 
1965,  he  was  promoted  to  sales  manager  of 
Simonds 's  largest  branch  office  in  Union,  NJ. 
For  the  past  eight  years,  he  had  been  a  "Right 
to  Read"  tutor  in  the  Glenview,  IL,  public 
schools.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Frederick  J.  McGowan,  '29,  a  founder  of  the 
American  Historical  Print  Collectors  Society, 
died  in  Connecticut  on  December  9,  1983.  A 
graduate  electrical  engineer  and  former  profes- 
sional engineer,  he  was  bom  on  December  2, 
1907.  in  Springfield,  MA. 

During  his  career,  he  was  an  assistant  engi- 
neer for  New  York  Telephone,  an  assistant 
chief  inspector  for  Anaconda  Wire  &  Cable, 
the  owner  of  McGowan  Associates  and  a  senior 
test  equipment  designer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft  (P&WA).  While  with  P&WA,  he  de- 
signed exotic  rigs  for  the  testing  of  advanced  jet 
aircraft  engines.  He  took  early  retirement  in 
1970,  devoting  much  time  to  his  hobby  of  col- 
lecting antique  prints,  and  restoring  damaged 
prints,  including  rare  Currier  &  Ives  varieties. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  the  ASME 
and  the  IEEE,  and  he  had  been  a  director  of  the 
Madison  Historical  Society  and  of  the  Dorothy 
Whitfield  Historical  Society.  He  was  a  former 
president  of  the  New  York  chapter  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association,  as  well  as  a  member  of  the 
Alumni  Council. 

Herbert  W.  Davis,  '30,  died  at  his  home  in 
Boynton  Beach,  FL,  on  October  29,  1983,  at 
the  age  of  76.  He  was  bom  in  Holyoke,  MA. 

After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI,  he  was  involved  with  the  tractor 
business  for  50  years.  He  had  been  associated 
with  the  H.F.  Davis  Tractor  Co.,  Shaw  Trans- 
mission Co.,  Berkshire  Tractor  Co.  and  Cleve- 
land Tractor  Co.  (the  Oliver  Corp.).  In  1952, 
he  became  a  partner  and  owner  of  the  Triumph 
Machine  Company,  Hackettstown,  NJ.  Later, 
he  was  vice  president  of  research  for  Brunt 
Equipment  Co.,  from  which  he  was  retired. 

Mr.  Davis  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  the 
ASME  and  the  Masons.  He  had  been  a  member 
of  the  Hackettstown  Board  of  Adjustment,  trea- 
surer of  the  local  Lions  Club  and  a  board  mem- 
ber of  the  Methodist  Church.  He  was  a  past 
president  of  the  Industrial  Equipment  Manufac- 
turers Council,  a  national  trade  association.  At 
the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  writing  an  autobi- 
ography of  his  years  in  the  tractor  business. 

Everett  M.  ("Casey")  Jones,  '32,  of  Ard- 
more,  PA,  a  partner  in  Jones  &  Malloy,  died  on 
October  26,  1983.  He  was  bom  on  June  14, 


MAY  1984       51 


1908.  in  Philadelphia. 

After  studying  at  WPI  and  Lehigh,  he  joined 
Simplex  Valve  &  Meter  Co..  where  he  ad- 
vanced to  executive  vice  president.  While  with 
Rockwell  International  in  Pittsburgh,  he  rose  to 
vice  president.  Later  he  formed  his  own  con- 
sulting firm  and  was  a  consultant  to  Pennwalt 
Corporation  in  Philadelphia. 

An  authoritx  on  water  problems,  Mr.  Jones 
was  a  past  president  and  a  director  of  the  Water 
and  Wastewater  Equipment  Manufacturers  As- 
sociation. He  was  a  life  member  and  officer  of 
the  American  Water  Works  Association,  which 
presented  him  with  its  Fuller  Award  in  1976. 

A  member  of  the  Union  League,  he  was 
chairman  and  secretary  of  the  League's  Hearth 
Club.  He  belonged  to  the  Engineers  Club  of 
Philadelphia,  the  Railroad  Machinery  Club  of 
New  York,  two  country  clubs,  the  Masons  and 
Phi  Gamma  Delta.  He  was  an  avid  student  of 
the  Revolutionary  War. 

Eugene  W.  Somerville,  '32,  of  Mount  Car- 
mel.  CT.  passed  away  on  October  25.  1983.  A 
native  of  Clinton.  MA.  he  was  born  on  April 
11.  1911. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI.  he 
worked  for  Bigelow  Sanford  Carpet  Co..  where 
he  rose  to  assistant  chief  engineer.  In  1942.  he 
joined  United  Illuminating  Co..  New  Haven,  as 
a  test  engineer.  In  1960,  he  became  general 
superintendent  and  five  years  later  he  was 
elected  vice  president  of  operations  and  engi- 
neering. He  retired  in  1974. 

Mr.  Somerville  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi.  and  he  was  a  past  president  of  the 
New  Haven  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 
In  1962-63  he  was  a  district  keyman  for  the 
Alumni  Fund.  He  had  been  a  director  of  the 
executive  board  of  his  local  Boy  Scout  council. 

Albert  H.  Ensor,  '33,  died  in  Brewster.  MA. 
on  October  8.  1983.  following  a  long  illness.  A 
graduate  electrical  engineer,  he  was  born  in 
Brockton  on  August  28.  1911. 

In  1974.  he  retired  as  superintendent  of  com- 
munications and  controls  for  the  New  England 
Electric  System  following  39  years  of  service. 
He  belonged  to  the  Brewster  Men's  Club,  the 
Church  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Theta  Chi  and  the 
Masons. 

George  A.  Stevens,  '34,  a  retired  field  man- 
ager for  Industrial  Risk  Insurers,  passed  away 
recently.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  May  24. 
1912.  and  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

Following  graduation,  he  joined  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association,  now  Industrial  Risk  In- 
surers. In  1938.  he  was  named  as  a  supervisor. 
Appointed  executive  special  agent  in  1950.  he 
assisted  in  the  supervision  and  handling  of  na- 
tionwide accounts  in  the  broadened  program 
department.  In  1976.  he  retired  as  field  man- 
ager for  the  firm's  Pittsburgh  territory. 

Mr.  Stevens  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta.  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

John  B.  Tytula,  '34,  of  Vera  Beach.  FL.  died 
September  5,  1983.  He  was  a  native  of  Austria. 
A  civil  engineer,  during  his  career  he  was 
employed  by  the  Worcester  County  Highway 
Department  and  he  worked  for  many  years  for 
the  Maps  and  Surveys  branch  of  the  Tennessee 
Valley  Authority  in  Chattanooga. 

Stephen  A.  Lincoln,  '39,  died  at  his  home  in 


Oakham,  MA,  on  November  27.  1983.  He  was 
born  in  North  Brookfield  on  July  30.  1912.  In 
1939.  he  received  his  BS  in  chemical  engineer- 
ing from  WPI. 

For  more  than  20  years,  before  retiring  in 
1977.  he  had  been  a  research  chemist  at  Anken 
Chemical  &  Film  Co..  Williamstown.  MA. 
Other  employers  had  been  Defender  Photo  Sup- 
pi)  and  Du  Pont,  both  in  Rochester.  NY.  Mr. 
Lincoln,  who  had  a  BS  degree  from  UMass, 
belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

John  H.  Newton,  '40,  former  general  superin- 
tendent of  U.S.  Steel's  Worcester  works,  died 
November  25.  1983.  in  Brunswick.  ME.  He 
was  bom  in  Millbury.  MA.  on  Nov.  1,  1917. 

An  electrical  engineer,  he  joined  New  Eng- 
land Power  following  graduation.  He  also 
worked  for  the  U.S.  Navy  Yard  in  Portsmouth. 
VA.  and  for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston.  For 
more  than  30  years,  he  was  with  U.S.  Steel's 
American  Steel  &  Wire  Division  in  Worcester. 
He  retired  in  1978  as  general  superintendent. 

Mr.  Newton  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa, 
the  Poly  Club,  the  Masons  (32nd  degree),  the 
Sutton  (MA)  Men's  Club  and  the  Republican 
town  committee.  He  was  active  with  the  Epis- 
copal Church  and  had  served  as  president  of  the 
Harpswell-by-the-Sea  Association. 

William  D.  Crosby,  '46,  of  Easton,  MA.  died 
last  July  at  the  age  of  57. 

A  native  of  Lenox,  he  attended  North  Adams 
State  College  and  Boston  University  School  of 
Law.  where  he  was  note  editor  of  the  Law  Re- 
view from  1949  to  1950.  He  started  his  career 
as  an  attorney  with  Waltham  Watches.  Later,  he 
opened  a  private  practice  in  Brockton,  which 
focused  on  wills,  trusts,  taxation,  business  and 
banking  law. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Plymouth  County, 
Massachusetts  and  American  Bar  associations. 
He  also  belonged  to  the  American  Civil  Liber- 
ties Union,  the  National  Organization  for 
Women  and  the  Cohasset  Dramatic  Club. 

Edmund  J.  Eager,  '48,  an  electrical  engineer 
for  Westinghouse,  died  October  29,  1983.  in 
Mount  Lebanon.  PA.  at  the  age  of  58. 

With  Westinghouse  for  35  years.  Mr.  Eager 
was  a  graduate  electrical  engineer.  He  had  an 
MBA  from  NYU .  He  belonged  to  ATO  and  PDE. 
In  World  War  II.  he  served  with  the  Navy,  and  he 
belonged  to  the  American  Legion. 

John  M.  Petrillo,  '48,  an  engineer  for  IBM  in 
Waltham,  MA,  for  the  past  1 8  years,  died  at  his 
home  in  Needham  on  October  5.  1983.  He  was 
59. 

A  native  of  Lynbrook,  NY.  he  received  his 
BS  and  MS  in  chemical  engineering  from  WPI. 
Prior  to  joining  IBM.  where  he  had  been  a  mar- 
keting representative,  he  had  been  a  sales  engi- 
neer for  the  Foxboro  Co.  He  belonged  to  PKT 
and  PDE.  During  World  War  II.  he  was  an 
electronics  technician  with  the  U.S.  Navy.  He 
was  the  father  of  James  Petrillo,  '76,  John 
Petrillo,  '71,  and  Joseph  Petrillo,  '86. 

Kenneth  R.  Neale,  '49,  died  at  his  home  in 
Middlebury.  CT,  on  January  8,  1984,  at  the  age 
of  58. 

He  was  bom  in  Waterbury,  CT,  and  gradu- 
ated with  a  BSEE.  Following  graduation,  he 
joined  Connecticut  Light  &  Power  Co.  He  re- 
tired last  June  as  vice  president  of  marketing  for 


the  Bristol-Babcock  Co.  in  Waterbury.  He 
served  with  the  U.S.  Navy  in  World  War  II  and 
the  Korean  conflict. 

A  member  of  the  Middlebury  Conservation 
Commission,  he  had  been  President  of  the  Os- 
tomy Association  of  Waterbury  and  a  board 
member  of  the  Waterbury  unit  of  the  American 
Cancer  Society.  He  was  a  32nd  degree  Mason 
and  a  Shriner.  A  member  of  the  Waterbury 
Club,  he  also  belonged  to  the  Watertown  Golf 
Club,  the  Episcopal  Church  and  the  Ice  Har- 
vester Association  of  America.  He  had  served 
as  chairman  of  his  local  Boy  Scout  troop.  Other 
affiliations  were  with  the  AIEE,  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  the  ISA. 

Paul  R.  Conlin,  Jr.,  '63,  of  Attleboro,  MA. 
died  at  his  home  on  September  16,  1983.  He 
was  bom  July  13,  1941.  in  Worcester. 

In  1963,  he  graduated  as  a  chemical  engineer 
from  WPI.  In  1965,  he  received  his  master's 
degree  from  UMass,  Amherst.  A  consultant, 
formerly  he  was  employed  by  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Attleboro.  He  belonged  to  ATO  and 
the  AIChE.  A  U.S.  Army  veteran,  he  had 
served  in  Korea. 

Jeffrey  W.  Thwing,  '65,  a  civil  engineer  with 
the  air  quality  division  of  the  Department  of 
Transportation,  died  on  October  14,  1983,  at 
the  George  Washington  University  Hospital  in 
Washington,  DC.  He  was  40  and  a  native  of  St. 
Paul,  MN. 

After  graduating  with  his  BS  from  WPI,  he 
received  his  MSCE  from  the  University  of 
Rhode  Island.  He  joined  the  transportation  de- 
partment in  1966  in  Montana,  transferring  to 
the  Washington  area  in  1969. 

A  licensed  professional  engineer  in  Colo- 
rado, he  also  belonged  to  SAE  and  the  Method- 
ist Church.  He  was  active  with  the  Boy  Scouts 
and  enjoyed  gardening. 

Lt   j.g.  Mark  R.  Caldwell,  '81  (USN),  was 

declared  dead  after  searchers  failed  to  find  any 
trace  of  his  body  when  his  plane  was  lost  over 
the  Mediterranean  Sea  on  Thanksgiving  Day. 
He  was  24. 

A  native  of  Attleboro.  MA,  Caldwell  gradu- 
ated as  a  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  He 
received  his  commission  in  the  Navy  through 
the  Naval  ROTC  program  at  Holy  Cross.  In 
1983,  he  was  designated  as  a  naval  aviator,  af- 
ter completing  flight  training  at  Naval  Air  Sta- 
tion, Chase  Field,  Beeville,  TX.  After  comple- 
tion of  C-1A  transition  training  at  Naval  Air 
Station,  North  Island.  San  Diego,  he  reported 
aboard  Transport  Squadron  24.  Sigonella.  He 
belonged  to  Alpha  Phi  Omega. 

Correction 

In  the  February  Journal,  we  reported  in  the 
story  on  the  new  WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 
that  Raymond  Forkey.  '40,  one  of  the  Hall's 
eight  charter  members,  is  the  only  WPI  athlete 
to  have  earned  12  letters.  Checking  the  record 
books,  we  find  that  two  other  athletes,  Robert 
Cotton,  '29,  and  Earl  Bloom,  '54,  did  indeed 
better  Forkey 's  marks.  Cotton,  as  far  as  we  can 
tell,  earned  13  letters— in  basketball,  tennis, 
soccer  and  golf.  Bloom,  who  earned  15  let- 
ters—in football,  basketball,  track  and  tennis- 
remains  WPI's  most  decorated  letterman.  We 
hope  we've  not  caused  either  of  these  alumni 
any  distress  by  our  oversight.  Our  congratula- 
tions to  all  three. 


52       WPI  JOURNAL 


continued  from  page  5 

ming,  in  how  we  talk  to  machines,  in  how 
we  solve  a  host  of  problems. 

But  one  thing  is  clear:  developments 
will  not  come  easily.  They  didn't  come 
without  a  struggle  for  Gutenberg,  either. 

Today,  we  can  store  the  equivalent  of  all 
of  the  Manhattan  telephone  directory  on  a 
chunk  of  material  about  the  size  of  a  post- 
age stamp.  In  order  to  build  such  a  memory 
technology,  we  must  draw  circuit  logic  on 
the  material  with  lines  about  one-micron 
wide.  A  micron  is  1/25,000  of  an  inch;  a 
human  hair  is  about  40-microns  wide.  But 
we  cannot  depend  on  conventional,  light- 
dependent  instruments  to  draw  such  narrow 
lines.  Instead,  methods  using  X-ray  energy 
are  called  into  play.  And  even  smaller, 
faster  computers  are  promised,  requiring 
even  more  exotic  manufacturing  tech- 
niques, such  as  using  an  electron  beam, 
able  to  make  lines  thinner  than  a  human 
nerve  fiber,  to  draw  circuit  logic. 

Computing  speed,  too,  is  improving 
dramatically,  in  concert  with  the  size  of 
our  most  advanced  computers.  Today's 
computers  are  built  on  nanosecond— one- 
billionth  of  a  second— technology,  where 
electric  circuits  make  switches  in  a  few  to 
thousands  of  nanoseconds.  Yet  even  faster 
computers  may  be  needed  soon.  Recent 
experiments  have  shown  that  the  technol- 
ogy needed  for  picosecond— trillionth  of  a 
second— systems  is  not  far  off.  How  much 
time  are  a  nano-  and  a  picosecond?  Well, 
light  travels  about  a  foot  in  one  nanosec- 
ond, and  a  picosecond  is  to  a  second  what 
a  second  is  to  31,710  years. 

These  phenomenal  speeds  enable,  in 
large  part,  dramatic  reductions  in  the  size 
of  the  most  advanced  computers.  Con- 
versely, machines  must  be  designed  to  ac- 
commodate the  comparatively  short  dis- 
tances electricity  covers  in  a  nano-  or 
picosecond. 

But  what  about  the  interaction  between 
machines  and  people?  What  have  you 
done  for  me  lately,  one  might  ask? 

Most  conventional  programming  lan- 
guages, like  Fortran,  Cobol  and  Basic, 
which  were  written  for  educational  and 
professional  applications,  are  far  too  com- 
plicated for  general  use.  Until  recently,  the 
inherent  complexity  of  managing  informa- 
tion was  handled  by  the  user.  Fortunately, 
burgeoning  markets  for  personal  comput- 
ing have  created  a  demand  for  transferring 
a  great  deal  of  that  complexity  to  the  com- 
puter itself,  thus  making  access  to  com- 
puters easier  for  everyone.  As  the  philoso- 
pher and  theologian  Martin  Buber  put  it, 
"It  is  more  important  that  the  machine  re- 


Dr.  Louis  Robinson  is  Director  of  Univer- 
sity Relations  at  International  Business 
Machines  (IBM)  Corporation. 

fleet  our  humanness  than  we  become  the 
mirror  of  the  machine." 

As  a  result  of  this  demand,  there  has 
been  a  surge  in  research  devoted  both  to 
creating  a  better  understanding  of  informa- 
tion processing  and  to  developing  the  most 
efficient  products  most  economically. 

There  evolves  from  these  consider- 
ations a  natural,  evolutionary  change 
in  the  relationship  between  industry 
and  education,  a  change  rooted  deeply  in 
the  economic  realities  of  our  times.  Faced 
with  declining  U.S.  competitiveness  in 
worldwide  markets,  our  professional  soci- 
eties, the  National  Science  Foundation, 
companies  and  universities  are  all  looking 
for  more  effective  bridges  for  building  re- 
search cooperation. 

Many  in  the  academic  community  seek 
science  for  the  sake  of  science.  But  many 
also  seek  to  make  the  knowledge  gained 
through  research  benefit  all  of  society.  For 
the  latter  to  occur,  for  us  all  to  develop 
wider  perspectives,  without  jeopardizing 
the  unique  role  of  each,  we  need  to  in- 
crease the  dialogue  between  those  who 
create  the  science  and  those  who  apply  it. 

But  the  interdependence  doesn't  end 
with  dialogue  alone.  Industry  needs  to 
have  access  to  a  pool  of  well-trained  scien- 
tists and  engineers.  Corporations  employ 
60  percent  of  U.S.  scientists,  and  our 
needs  are  growing. 

We  also  rely  heavily  on  university  re- 
search that  creates  the  new  materials  in- 
dustry needs  in  its  quest  for  lower  costs 
and  better  performance.  Similarly,  no  uni- 
versity, no  matter  how  large  or  rich,  can 
possibly  expect  to  replicate  in  its  entirety 
the  modern  high-technology  industrial  en- 
vironment. Obsolescence,  too,  takes  its 
toll  on  university  budgets. 


Think  of  it  this  way:  An  apprentice  to  a 
seasoned  boot-maker  can  indeed  learn  to 
make  the  next  pair  better  than  anyone  else. 
But  if  there  is  a  surprise  or  unexpected 
twist— so  frequent  in  technology— the  ap- 
prentice cannot  fall  back  upon  core-curric- 
ulum knowledge  to  solve  unprecedented 
problems.  New  and  formal  scientific  or 
engineering  training  is  an  essential  ele- 
ment of  the  repertoire  of  today's  effective 
problem-solver. 

Historically,  the  use  of  technology  has 
been  largely  the  private  domain  of  those 
who  developed  it.  Probably,  for  example, 
few  nations  other  than  England,  France  or 
the  U.S.  could  have  built  the  Panama  or 
Suez  canals. 

But  the  computer  is  different.  Once  it 
exists  anywhere,  it  exists  everywhere. 
There  are  students  working  at  terminals  in 
Worcester,  in  Chicago,  in  London,  trying 
to  understand  genetic  principles  or  inte- 
grated circuits.  But  there  are  also  students 
in  Bangkok  and  Addis  Ababa,  often  con- 
nected by  satellite,  using  the  same  technol- 
ogy to  solve  the  same  problems.  The  com- 
puter has  a  great  leveling  effect  in  making 
nearly  everyone  "information  literate." 

This  new  technology  will  be  as  perva- 
sive as  Gutenberg's.  But  its  real  impact 
(far  more  so  than  the  endless  automated 
gadgets  it  will  enable)— and  the  creative 
challenge  all  of  us  face— will  be  in  chang- 
ing the  way  we  think  about  information 
and  the  sources  of  that  knowledge,  be  they 
in  science  or  engineering,  in  driving  the 
kids  to  dance  class  and  preparing  meals,  or 
in  privacy  or  law. 

Picture  Gutenberg,  who  has  just  in- 
vented movable  type.  To  the  few 
monks  then  able  to  read  and  write,  he 
says,  "We're  going  to  use  this  technology 
to  put  on  everyone's  breakfast  table  three 
pages  of  listings  of  the  opening  asked,  bid 
and  closing  prices  of  every  stock  on  the 
New  York  Stock  Exchange."  But  in  1460, 
of  course,  there  was  not  even  a  New  York, 
let  alone  a  newspaper  or  stock  market. 
Likewise,  predictions  of  the  computer's 
potential  may  seem  today  just  as  outra- 
geous as  the  ones  hypothetical^  assigned 
to  Gutenberg. 

Like  movable  type,  the  computer's  po- 
tential is  limited  only  by  our  imaginations. 
It's  like  handling  an  artist  a  palette  that 
includes  an  infinite  spectrum  of  colors, 
even  invisible  ones,  like  ultraviolet  or  X- 
rays;  or  a  composer  a  set  of  musical  notes 
and  harmonics  and  chords,  some  of  which 
have  never  been  played  before;  or  a  poet 
an  alphabet  of  infinite  scope.  It  is  a  tool 
for  the  realization  of  ideas. 


family  affair* 


REUNION  1984 


May  31-June  3 


19 


September  2'< 

'69 

74       1 

79 

Cy  , 

v.. 

r  c 

x  C 

■n  c- 

C  r~ 

o  -c 

*»  O 


a 

i— • 

O 


/ 


V 


I 


The  Class  oi 


Need  any  WPI  memorabilia? 
The  Bookstore  will  be  open 


it  gifts! 
Saturday. 


SEE  YOU  THERE 


Stf**v 


r    *****  "**      1 


td*^:-m 


\Ht 


[kJ&li 


**- 


"<^ 


^d 


i&Niiittta 


->  ■**• 


a**-** 


m 


*M  V 


v~m 


4f& 


[if+wi 


*?w 


r. 
i 


H 


JS'ifs 


&& 


*- 


.•-*      i 


■ 


fir'1 


MP,* 


5ws 


i*                 •     *     ,«•               4111  #11    wJW/l 

jMT  4«S 

ST?  11 

Li**' 

1 

I 


C 


1 


I* 


5tf& 


n 


m 


> 

J    - 

i 

L# 

iffi 


■'';*■*  ■ 


1 

■It 

1, 
tri! 


>    - 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  88,  NUMBER 


Staff  of  THE  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Sports  Editor,  Gene  Blaum 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  William  J. 
Firla,  Jr.  '60,  chair;  Samuel  W.  Mencow, 
'37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith 
Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-18,  35-52  ®  1984 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI 
0 1984,  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Production  Coordina- 
tor, Amy  Doudiken;  Designer,  Ellen  Cohen; 
Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Gerald  Eckert  and  Judy  Durand;  Hartwick  Col- 
lege, Merrilee  Gomillion;  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, B.J.  Norris  and  Elise  Hancock;  Rensse- 
laer Polytechnic  Institute,  Lynn  Holley  and 
Robert  M.  Whitaker;  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Donald  F.  Berth  and  Kenneth  L. 
McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments: 

Typesetting,  BG  Composition  Inc.;  Printing, 
American  Press  Inc. 


Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor,  77!?  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


AUGUST  1984 


6  A  Passion  Fulfilled,  for  All  to  Enjoy 

Higgins  House,  the  estate  of  Aldus  ('93) 
and  May  Higgins,  remains  one  of  WPI's 
most  cherished  gems. 
Lora  Brueck 

12  Rich  Pryputniewicz: 

A  Giant  in  the  Land  of  Lasers 
He's  put  WPI  on  the  map  in  this  new 
technology— 24  hours  a  day. 
Michael  Shanley 

16  Golf,  Tennis,  Anyone? 

Rain  and  wind  (again)  couldn't  cloud  the 
good  cheer  (again)  of  Reunion  Weekend. 
Kenneth  McDonnell 

I  Unraveling  Rainbows 

How  scientists  have  explained  them. 
How  artists  have  portrayed  them. 
And  how  they  work. 
Raymond  Lee,  Jr. 

XII  Jerseywocky 

Lewis  Carroll  would  have  written  this, 
had  he  traveled  the  New  Jersey  Turnpike. 
Paul  S.  Kieffer 

XIV  "My  job  as  a  parent  is  done." 

Entering  college  marks  a  watershed. 
Elise  Hancock 

Departments 

Books        2 

News  from  the  Hill        3 
Class  Notes        35 
Completed  Careers        5 1 
Feedback        Inside  back  cover 


-04-Tor 


m 


Page  12 


Page  16 


Page  I 


Cover:  Bob  Cruickshank  and  Aman  Khan  eye  an 
holography  experiment  that  measures  the  vibration  of  jet-engine  turbine  blades. 
Photo  by  Michael  Carroll.   Opposite:  The  elegant  south  window  of  the  Great 
Hall  at  the  Higgins  House,  lush  with  springtime  ivy.  Photo  by  Michael  Carroll. 


AUGUST  1984        1 


Washington's  Best 
Kept  Secrets: 
A  U.S.  Government  Guide 
to  International  Business 

By  William  Delphos,  '74  MG 
Publisher:  John  Wiley  &  Sons, 
New  York,  1983 

by  Ruth  Trask 

In  Best  Kept  Secrets,  his  270-page  interna- 
tional business  guide,  Bill  Delphos,  '74 
MG,  not  only  cuts  red  tape,  he  also  cuts 
the  mustard.  His  informative  "how-to" 
manual,  which  should  be  required  reading 
for  would-be  international  entrepreneurs, 
is  opening  doors  in  Washington,  DC,  and 
in  business  communities  around  the  world. 

Described  in  business  circles  as  "a  32- 
year-old  whirlwind,"  Delphos  has  come 
through  with  a  first  publishing  venture  that 
has  been  termed  "astounding."  To  con- 
ceive and  produce  a  book  in  less  than  a 
year  is  a  feat  almost  unheard  of  in  the  pub- 
lishing world,  let  alone  in  the  molasses- 
like mire  of  government  bureaucracy.  But 
the  book  was  one  whose  time  had  come, 
and  the  first  printing  of  10,000  copies  is 
already  exhausted. 

"The  guide  is  designed  to  unscramble 
the  scores  of  U.S.  government  programs 
available  for  American  firms  seeking  to  do 
business  abroad,"  says  Delphos.  The  idea 
for  the  project  jelled  when  he  came  across 
studies  showing  that  the  average  U.S. 
businessman  had  only  the  foggiest  idea  of 
how  government  programs  could  help  him 
get  into  the  export  business. 

"There  were  countless  books  covering 
exporting,"  he  continues,  "but  not  a  single 
one  offered  a  simple,  how-to  guide.  The 
American  businessman  had  to  go  to  Wash- 
ington and  see  a  dozen  mega-agencies. 
There  was  no  central  information  point." 

To  remedy  the  situation,  Delphos, 
who  is  vice  president  of  operations  for 
the  Washington-based  Overseas  Private 
Investment  Corp.  (OPIC),  took  on  the  job 


Bill  Delphos  and  President  Ronald  Reagan 

of  putting  together  a  one-stop  guide  to 
international  business.  The  result  of  his 
collaboration  with  seven  government  trade 
agencies  is  a  tightly  edited  manual  outlin- 
ing markets,  opportunities,  travel  prepara- 
tions, feasibility  studies,  regulations, 
financing,  investments  and  training.  It 
gives  names,  phone  numbers,  addresses 
and  costs.  Most  importantly,  it  uses  the 
direct  "supermarket"  approach— listing 
the  services  available  (e.g.,  direct  loans) 
and  the  administering  agencies  much  as  a 
supermarket  displays  products  by  brand 
name  labels  that  also  identify  the  manufac- 
turer. 

"If  a  company  wants  to  export  its  prod- 
uct, it  can  identify  sources  of  market  infor- 
mation, specific  countries  where  that  prod- 
uct should  find  ready  acceptance,  and 
what  the  U.S.  government  offers  by  way 
of  assistance,  without  spending  two  weeks 
on  the  phone  to  Washington,"  Delphos 
explains. 

Interspersed  with  the  nuts  and  bolts  are 
stories  of  companies  and  entrepreneurs 
who  have  taken  advantage  of  various  gov- 
ernment programs  and  succeeded.  For 
example,  Kentron  International  of  Dallas, 
through  the  efforts  of  the  Commerce 
Department,  is  upgrading  the  Pakistan 
Railway  communications  system  under  a 
$50  million  contract.  The  Department  of 
Agriculture  helped  U.S.  tanners  enter  the 
China  leather  market,  increasing  sales 
from  $49  million  to  $65  million  within  two 
years.  A  feasibility  study  grant  helped 
LEMCO  Engineers  of  St.  Louis,  MO,  win 


a  $9  million  contract  for  engineering  high- 
voltage  transmission  lines  in  Bangkok. 

OPIC,  Delphos'  agency,  has  itself  guaran- 
teed loans  for  numerous  international  ven- 
tures. For  instance,  it  guaranteed  a  loan  to 
establish  a  Caterpillar  Tractor  equipment 
dealership  in  Honduras,  insured  an  AMF 
investment  in  sports  equipment  manufac- 
ture in  China,  and  backed  a  three-year  pro- 
gram to  train  management  executives  in 
Southern  Asia  in  the  use  of  American  tech- 
nology. 

One  small  businessman  found  listed  in 
the  guide  a  simple  booklet  that  gave  him 
the  opportunity  to  latch  onto  a  foreign- 
government  contract  in  the  health  indus- 
try. "He  isn't  classified  as  a  'small'  busi- 
nessman any  longer,"  Delphos  smiles. 

Secrets  also  outlines  a  Small  Business 
Administration  program  that  gives  free 
legal  counsel  for  the  first-time  exporter.  It 
reports  that  between  the  Departments  of 
Agriculture  and  Commerce  there  are  21 
overseas  offices  that  the  U.S.  businessman 
can  use  for  $50  a  day  or  less,  including 
secretarial,  clerical,  marketing  assistance, 
Telex  and  telephones.  It  also  details  such 
obscure  policies  as  a  Department  of  Agri- 
culture program  that  provides  American 
companies  with  cash  allowances  for  point- 
of-purchase  displays  in  foreign  countries. 

Last  November,  Washington 's  Best  Kept 
Secrets  was  launched  during  a  spectacular 
50-city  video  conference  attended  by 
5,000  businessmen  interested  in  doing 
business  around  the  world.  Called  "Oper- 
ation Opportunity,"  the  conference  was 
co-sponsored  by  the  seven  government 
agencies  which  collaborated  on  the  guide, 
plus  several  private  sponsors,  including 
Fortune  magazine,  Deloitte  Haskins  & 
Sells,  and  John  Wiley  &  Sons.  Well- 
known  TV  personality  Edwin  Newman 
served  as  moderator. 

While  Delphos  deservedly  takes  the 
credit  for  conceiving  and  editing  the  fast- 
selling  Secrets,  he  admits  that  his  wife, 
Betsy,  came  up  with  the  title.  "The  title 
sounds  a  bit  more  provocative  than  the 
material,  don't  you  think?"  he  laughs. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


-  ,*>v 


Joseph  Glasser,  '35  EE 

Three  Alumni  Elected  to 
Trustee  Terms 

Effective  July  1,  1984,  three  alumni  were 
elected  to  serve  on  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees.  Joseph  Glasser,  '35  EE,  an 
incumbent,  will  serve  a  second  five-year 
term,  until  June  30,  1989.  William  A. 
Delphos,  '74  MG,  and  Peter  H.  Horst- 
mann,  '55  ME,  will  each  serve  an  eight- 
year  term,  until  June  30,  1992. 

Delphos,  who  holds  an  MBA  from 
Northwestern  University  (1976)  is  vice 
president  for  operations  of  the  Overseas 
Private  Investment  Corp.,  Washington, 
D.C.  He  is  also  editor  of  Washington's 
Best  Kept  Secrets,  a  government  guide  to 
international  business  (see  review,  page 
2);  chairman  of  Operation  Opportunity,  a 
presidential  program  to  help  American 
firms  win  in  overseas  markets;  and  a 
former  board  member  of  Gould,  Inc.  He  is 
an  Alumni  Fund  head  agent.  While  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI,  he  was  president  of  the  Inter- 
fraternity  Council  and  a  member  of  Skull. 
He  is  also  a  member  and  past  section  chief 
of  Phi  Gamma  Delta  fraternity. 

Glasser  is  a  consultant  and  the  director 
of  the  Center  for  Business  and  Industry 
at  North  Essex  Community  College, 
Haverhill,  MA.  He  is  also  a  retired  vice 
president  of  Raytheon  Co.  He  received  an 
honorary  doctor  of  science  degree  from 


Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55  ME 


William  Delphos,  '74  MG 

the  University  of  Lowell  in  1973  and  in 
1978  won  WPI's  Robert  Goddard  Award 
for  professional  achievement.  He  serves 
on  the  boards  of  several  organizations, 
including  the  Lawrence  (MA)  General 
Hospital,  Andover  (MA)  Memorial 
Library,  and  Lawrence  (MA)  Savings 
Bank.  He  is  also  vice  president  of  the 
Haverhill  Chamber  of  Commerce.  A 
member  of  the  WPI  Board  since  1979, 
Glasser  also  sits  on  the  advisory  board  at 
WPI's  Department  of  Management. 

As  an  alumnus,  Horstmann  has  been 
active  in  WPI  affairs  since  1965,  when  he 
began  serving  on  the  alumni  board  of 
Sigma  Phi  Ep'silon  fraternity.  He  was  pres- 


ident of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association 
(1981-83),  was  a  member  and  later  chair- 
man of  the  Alumni  Fund  Board  (1971- 
78),  and  won  the  WPI  Herbert  F.  Taylor 
Award  in  1980  for  distinguished  service  to 
his  alma  mater.  In  his  undergraduate 
years,  he  was  senior  class  president,  mem- 
ber of  Skull  and  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  co-cap- 
tain of  the  undefeated  1954  football  team. 
He  has  served  on  the  boards  of  the  Holden 
(MA)  school  and  Wachusett  regional 
school  districts.  He  also  referees  college 
football  games  throughout  New  England. 
Horstmann  is  vice  president  of  Coppus 
Engineering  Corp.,  Worcester,  and  presi- 
dent of  Suburban  Driver  Service,  Ho-Ho- 
Kus,  NJ.  He  earned  an  MBA  from  West- 
ern New  England  College  in  1964. 

The  college  is  indeed  fortunate  to  have 
these  three  outstanding  individuals  on  its 
Board  of  Trustees. 


Comings. . . . 


As  we  went  to  press,  Director  of  Admis- 
sions Roy  Seaberg,  '56  ME,  reported  that 
WPI  will  welcome  in  September  a  fresh- 
man class  that  upholds  the  academic  qual- 
ity of  the  past  several  incoming  groups.  In 
terms  of  applicants  who  have  accepted 
admission,  the  overall  number  is  down 
only  a  handful,  to  662,  from  last  year's 
record  667— this  in  the  face  of  declining 
demographics  across  the  nation  and  espe- 
cially in  the  Northeast. 

"For  the  past  five  years,"  says  Seaberg, 
"the  average  SAT  scores  of  all  incoming 
WPI  freshmen  have  stood  at  650  math 
(men,  640  women)  and  530  English  (men 
and  women),  out  of  a  possible  perfect 
score  of  800  on  each  test.  This  is  a  positive 
sign  that  we  are  at  least  maintaining  qual- 
ity in  the  face  of  declining  SAT  scores 
nationwide." 

Other  statistics:  Of  the  current  662 
acceptances,  54  percent  hail  from  Massa- 
chusetts, 68  percent  from  New  England. 
Both  percentages  are  roughly  the  same  as 
in  the  1983-84  school  year.  Foreign  stu- 
dents make  up  about  6  percent  of  the  class, 


AUGUST  1984 


As  work  nears  completion  on  the  reno- 
vated and  enlarged  Washburn  Shops, 
some  departments ,  such  as  Materials 
Engineering  and  Management,  have 
already  moved  back  into  the  building. 
Here,  a  mason  lays  up  brickwork  for  the 
Shops '  new  main  entrance,  which  opens 
onto  Freeman  Plaza.  Rededication  is 
scheduled  for  early  autumn. 

and  women  20  percent  (again,  about  equal 
to  last  year's  figures). 

Overall,  of  those  indicating  preferred 
areas  of  study,  26  percent  have  pointed  to 
electrical  engineering,  mechanical  engi- 
neering 14  percent,  computer  science  12 
percent,  "undecided  engineering"  10  per- 
cent, and  any  of  the  science/mathematics 
programs  8  percent  in  total. 

Sons  or  daughters  of  alumni  number  19 
in  the  class,  and  3  grandchildren  of  alumni 
will  enter  WPI  in  September.  More  than 
140  relatives  of  current  students  will  also 
be  matriculating  for  the  first  time  in  the 
fall. 

"Although  we  went  to  our  waiting  list  to 
bring  in  the  class  size  we  desire,"  Seaberg 
says,  "we've  done  so  for  three  of  the  past 
four  years  as  well.  There's  nothing  un- 
usual about  this,  except  that  this  year  we 
planned  for  it." 


. . .  And  Goings 

WPI's  573  degree  recipients  at  the  116th 
Commencement  received  more  than  a 
diploma.  They  also  got  a  copy  of  David 
McCullough's  The  Great  Bridge,  the 
award-winning  story  of  the  building  of  the 
Brooklyn  Bridge.  With  it  they  got  a  home- 


work assignment  from  President  Edmund 
T.  Cranch.  "This  is  both  a  final  academic 
gesture,"  Cranch  said,  "and  a  way  to 
make  sure  you  read  at  least  one  book  after 
graduation. 

"There's  a  catch,  though,"  he  added. 
"You'll  be  quizzed  on  the  book  at  your 
fifth  reunion." 

Bachelor  of  science  degrees  were 
awarded  to  471  seniors.  Another  64 
received  master  of  science  degrees,  five 
the  master  of  mathematics,  and  four  the 
doctor  of  philosophy.  In  all,  since  May 
1983,  degrees  awarded  by  WPI  total  755, 
of  which  601  were  the  bachelor  of  science. 

Honorary  doctorates  were  awarded  to 
commencement  speaker  Dr.  John  Lott 
Brown,  '46  EE,  president  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  South  Florida;  Dr.  Ray  E.  Bolz, 
immediate  past  vice  president  and  dean  of 
the  faculty  at  WPI;  the  late  Charles  C. 
Bonin,  '38  CE,  a  civil  engineer  business 
executive  and  former  WPI  trustee;  and 
David  McCullough,  writer-historian. 


Firla  Appointed 
Publications  Committee 
Chairman 

William  J.  Firla,  Jr.,  '60  ME,  has  been 
appointed  chairman  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Publications  Committee  by  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation president  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr., 
'56  ME.  Firla  succeeds  Donald  E.  Ross, 


'54  ME,  whose  term  expired  June  30. 
Firla,  a  consulting  systems  engineer  for 
IBM,  is  a  former  chairman  of  WPI's  Pub- 
lic Relations  Advisory  Committee.  He  is  a 
resident  of  Needham,  MA. 

Ross  had  served  as  chairman  of  the 
committee  since  1981.  He  is  executive 
vice  president  of  MPB  Corp.,  Keene,  NH, 
a  maker  of  precision  bearings. 

The  Publications  Committee  acts  as  an 
advisor  to  the  editor  of  the  WPI  Journal, 
providing  critical  analysis  of  current  and 
planned  issues  of  the  magazine  as  well  as 
advice  on  publishing  direction  and  produc- 
tion policy. 

Currently,  three  alumni  sit  on  the  Com- 
mittee besides  the  chairman.  In  the  next 
year,  however,  additional  members  will  be 
added  to  broaden  the  perspectives  and  geo- 
graphical representation  of  the  group.  If 
you  know  of  any  alumni  who  you  think 
may  be  qualified  to  serve  on  this  body,  we 
encourage  you  to  contact  Mr.  Firla  (130 
Tower  Ave.,  Needham,  MA  02194)  or 
Mr.  Tenney  (74  Gulf  St.,  West  Long 
Branch,  NJ  07764). 

(Editor's  Note:  Working  with  the  Publi- 
cations Committee  under  Don  Ross's  lead- 
ership has  been  a  pleasure,  and  I  anticipate 
more  of  the  same  with  Bill  Firla  as  chair- 
man. As  editor,  I  value  each  member's 
efforts  on  behalf  of  the  college.  And  I 
want  especially  to  recognize  the  contribu- 
tion Don  has  made  to  WPI  and  the  help  he 
has  given  me  so  selflessly  as  Committee 
chairman,  colleague  and  friend.  Thanks, 
Don!) 


As  if  the  traffic  wasn  't  bad  enough  on  May  19  at  the  corner  of  Park  and  Salisbury 
streets,  what  with  WPI  Commencement  and  the  Worcester  Craft  Center  Fair  that  after- 
noon in  the  same  neighborhood.  Actually,  these  two  houses  made  their  way  quite  nicely 
that  day  from  Dean  Street  to  new  foundations  on  a  site  off  Salisbury  Street  near  Assump- 
tion College.  To  make  way  for  WPI's  soon-to-be  built  Residence  Hall  6,  two  couples, 
WPI  students  Vincent  and  May-Shun  Pawlowski,  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Gillin,  paid 
the  college  token  amounts  for  the  houses,  rather  than  see  them  razed.  It  took  workers  all 
day  and  half  the  night  to  move  enough  utility  wires  and  tree  branches  to  finish  the  job. 
And  although  the  Pawlowskis  and  the  Gillins  didn  't  know  each  other  before  this  venture, 
they  certainly  do  now. 


4       WPI  JOURNAL 


Spring  Sports  Wrap-up 

Hammer-thrower  Pete  Sifferlen's  (Sud- 
bury, MA)  all-America  performance  and 
second-place  finish  at  the  Division  III 
NCAA  Track  &  Field  Championships 
highlighted  a  successful  spring  sports  sea- 
son at  WPI. 

Sifferlen,  a  two-time  all-America,  and 
high-hurdler  Dan  Pond  (Grafton,  MA) 
qualified  to  participate  in  the  Nationals 
held  at  Carleton  College,  Northfield,  MN. 
Sifferlen,  who  finished  fourth  in  1983,  had 
a  best  throw  during  the  finals,  179-4,  that 
fell  just  two  feet  behind  the  eventual  win- 
ner but  did  earn  him  all-America  honors 
for  the  second  consecutive  year.  Pond, 
who  set  a  Division  III  New  England  record 
in  early  May,  didn't  qualify  for  the  finals 
in  the  1 10-high  hurdles. 

The  men's  track  team  enjoyed  a  banner 
year,  finishing  8-2  for  its  14th  consecutive 
winning  season.  Coach  Merl  Norcross's 
squad  captured  the  City  Championship 
Meet  and  finished  a  strong  fourth  at  the 
Division  III  New  England  Championships. 
Five  individuals,  plus  the  4x100  relay 
team,  garnered  all-New  England  honors. 

The  women's  club  crew  team  added 
excitement  to  the  spring,  as  well.  The  var- 
sity four-boat  placed  second  at  the  Dad 
Vail  Regatta  in  Philadelphia  and  brought 
home  a  silver  medal.  The  Engineers 
crossed  the  finish  line  just  six  seconds 
behind  Coast  Guard  in  the  final  heat. 

Another  club  team,  men's  lacrosse,  dis- 
tinguished itself  as  the  laxmen  won  their 
last  seven  games  to  finish  9-4  and  claim 
the  Pilgrim  League  championship.  WPI 
had  an  unblemished  5-0  League  record, 
including  a  season-ending  1 1-10  overtime 
win  over  Providence  that  decided  the 
championship.  Bill  Zagrany  (Westfield, 
MA)  paced  the  scoring  attack  with  36 
goals  and  9  assists  on  the  year,  while  John 
Joseph  (Longmeadow,  MA)  and  Dave 
Anderson  (East  Greenwich,  RI)  tallied  22 
and  17  goals,  respectively. 

WPI  placed  five  members  on  the  Pil- 
grim League  all-star  team,  including 
Zagrany,  Dave  Sheehan  (Wilmette,  IL), 
Chris  Clausson  (Wayland,  MA),  Dave 
Collette  (Leominster,  MA)  and  Bill  Simp- 
son (Needham,  MA). 

The  men's  tennis  team  also  had  a  fine 
season,  snapping  a  13-year  losing  skein 
with  a  5-3  record.  WPI  was  led  by  num- 
ber-one singles  Dan  Mott  (Holden,  MA). 
He  had  a  sparkling  6-2  record  and  at  one 
point  during  the  campaign  was  5-0.  Num- 
ber three,  Carlo  Gretter  (Venezuela),  and 
number  four,  John  Scacciotti  (Maynard, 


In  a  close  400-meter  race,  All-New 
England  Economou  breaks  the  tape 
against  MIT's  best. 

MA),  played  well  all  season  for  head 
coach  Alan  King.  And  Eric  Reidmiester 
(Brooklyn,  CT)  won  five  consecutive 
matches  to  finish  5-1 . 

Although  the  baseball  team  ended  with 
an  8-19  mark,  there  were  obvious  bright 
spots,  including  the  play  of  center  fielder 
Chuck  Hickey  (Ashland,  MA),  who  led 
the  Engineers  in  seven  offensive  catego- 
ries. Meanwhile,  impressive  freshmen  like 
Dave  Scala  (Worcester,  MA)  and  Mike 
Shipulski  (Methuen,  MA)  played  with  the 
poise  of  seasoned  veterans.  Other  stars  for 
WPI  were  Jack  Holzman  (Braintree,  MA), 
Dan  Coakley  (Sterling,  MA),  and  Steve 
Nolan  (Maiden,  MA).  The  pitching  staff 
was  led  by  ace  righty  Bob  Hess 
(Needham,  MA).  He  finished  with  a  5-4 
record,  an  enviable  2.81  earned  run  aver- 
age, and  the  only  shutout  of  the  season. 

Like  the  diamondmen,  the  women's 
softball  squad  had  fine  individual  perfor- 
mances despite  its  6-7  record.  Pitcher 
Michelle  Bugbee  (Holliston,  MA)  won  all 
six  games  and  ended  with  an  impressive 
3.39  earned  run  average.  Hitting  stars 
were  Chris  Clancy  (Braintree,  MA),  Moe 
McGlone  (Middleboro,  MA),  and  Cindy 
Perkins  (Nashua,  NH). 

The  men's  golf  team  suffered  through  a 
2-10  season,  but  a  shining  light  was  the 
presence  of  Eric  Meerback  (Easton,  CT), 
who  consistently  shot  the  team  low.  And 
the  women's  club  track  team  showed  a  1-4 
record,  with  the  lone  win  coming  against 
Clark.  Elaine  Santry  (Weymouth,  MA) 
and  Michelle  Payant  (Southbridge,  MA) 
excelled  for  the  Engineers. 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  season,  student 
athletic  awards  were  presented  at  the 
annual  Varsity  Awards  Banquet.  Pete  Sif- 
ferlen and  Chiara  Whalen  (Brick,  NJ) 
were  presented  the  Varsity  Awards  for  out- 
standing senior  athletes,  while  Bob  Hess 


received  the  Percy  Carpenter  Award 
for  sportsmanship,  and  Karen  Brock 
(N.  Hartland,  VT)  won  the  Patricia 
Graham  Award  for  leadership  and  sports- 
manship. The  Leo  S.  Hansson  Award  was 
given  to  Carlo  Gretter  as  the  outstanding 
sophomore;  and  the  Coaches  Awards,  to 
outstanding  freshmen,  were  presented  to 
John  Loonie  (Brockton,  MA),  Amilcar 
Carniero  (Framingham,  MA)  and  Cindy 
Perkins.  The  Ted  Coghlin  Managers 
Award  went  to  Martina  Gorski  (Webster, 
MA). 

Gene  Blaum 
Sports  Information  Director 


WPI  Wins  Two  More 
CASE  Awards 

It  is  an  unusual  year  when  WPI  fails  to  win 
at  least  one  Recognition  Award  from  the 
Council  for  the  Advancement  and  Support 
of  Education  (CASE).  In  1983-84,  WPI 
was  honored  with  two  of  these  prestigious 
prizes,  which  celebrate  special  achieve- 
ment in  the  fields  of  institutional  develop- 
ment—alumni affairs,  public  relations, 
publications  and  fund  raising. 

First,  for  the  fifth  time  in  six  years,  the 
college  has  been  recognized  for  excellence 
in  alumni  giving  with  receipt  of  the  cov- 
eted CASE-U.S.  Steel  Foundation  Award. 
This  prize  acknowledges  sustained  perfor- 
mance over  four  years  in  alumni  giving  to 
the  annual  fund.  Over  the  past  24  years, 
this  program  has  recognized  more  than 
500  institutions  through  cash  gifts  totaling 
nearly  $1  million. 

"Five  out  of  six  isn't  bad,"  says  former 
Alumni  Fund  managing  director  Sharon 
C.  Davis,  "especially  when  only  a  few 
colleges  can  lay  claim  to  a  more  consistent 
record.  WPI  alumni  have  much  to  be 
proud  of."  Sharon  resigned  her  WPI  post 
June  30  to  become  director  of  develop- 
ment of  the  Bancroft  School,  Worcester. 

WPI  congratulates  and  thanks  not  only 
the  thousands  of  alumni  whose  generous 
concern  for  their  alma  mater  has  made  this 
sustained  performance  possible,  but  cer- 
tainly Sharon  Davis  as  well.  Her  leader- 
ship has  had  much  to  do  with  the  Alumni 
Fund's  success  over  the  past  decade. 

The  second  CASE  Recognition  Award 
was  given  to  the  WPI  Journal,  for 
improvement  in  periodicals  programs. 
This  award  is  based  on  content,  writing, 
editing,  visual  communication,  printing, 
use  of  resources,  and  objectives  for 
improvement. 

Son  of  a  gun! 


AUGUST  1984       5 


A  PASSION  FULFILLED, 
FOR  ALL  TO  ENJOY 

WPFs  magnificent  Higgins  House  continues  to  impress  us  with  its 

enduring  qualities  of  taste  and  construction.  And  its  history  is  a  tale 

as  colorful  as  that  of  the  16th-century  Tudor  castle  that  inspired 

Aldus  Higgins,  '93,  to  create  a  dream  house  for  his  wife  May. 

By  Lora  Brueck 


i 


I  m 


m 


■■ :  ■■  ■• . 


*" 


Of  all  the  inquiries  that  come  to  the 
WPI  Archives,  more  concern 
WPI's  priceless  Higgins  House 
than  any  other  aspect  of  the  college  his- 
tory. Questions  come  from  students- 
some  writing  Humanities  project  reports — 
others  from  faculty,  staff  and  the  public, 
all  satisfying  a  curiosity  about  the  House: 
Who  was  Higgins?  When  was  the  estate 
built0  Why  a  mini-castle  tucked  away  on 
the  edge  of  the  WPI  campus?  How  did  the 
house  look  in  its  prime?  How  has  the 
house  been  used,  and  what  is  its  future? 

Some  of  the  answers  to  these  questions 
can  be  found  in  the  artifacts  of  the  WPI 
Archives;  but  many  are  built  into  Higgins 
House  itself— in  the  sneers  of  the  gar- 
goyles, in  the  ancient  wood  paneling,  in 
the  fluted  chimneys  and  antique  tile. 

Most  of  us  stand  in  awe  of  the  Higgins 
House— that  a  WPI  graduate  lived  in  such 
grandeur;  that  a  mere  60  years  ago  con- 
struction of  this  magnificence  was  eco- 
nomically possible;  that  such  time,  care 
and  attention  to  detail  were  invested  in  a 
house. 

The  story  of  Higgins  House  goes  back 
to  the  1865  founding  of  WPI  itself, 
known  then  as  the  Worcester  County 
Free  Institute  of  Industrial  Science.  The 
school  combined  the  dreams— and  finan- 
cial resources— of  two  local  industrialists, 
John  Boynton  and  Ichabod  Washburn,  to 
train  young  men  as  engineers.  Boynton 's 
Institute  gave  them  the  classroom  knowl- 
edge and  Washburn's  Shops  the  hands-on 
experience. 

Milton  Prince  Higgins  had  grown  up  on 
a  Standish.  Maine,  farm,  where,  as  a  boy, 
he  tinkered  in  his  father's  copper  shop. 
After  receiving  all  the  education  available 
in  Standish,  he  went  to  Manchester,  New 
Hampshire,  to  work  in  the  Amoskeag 
Mills.  Higgins  came  to  Worcester  in  1868, 
as  the  first  superintendent  of  the  Washburn 
Shops.  A  recent  graduate  of  Dartmouth 
College's  Chandler  Scientific  School,  he 
came  highly  recommended  to  Ichabod 
Washburn  by  his  Dartmouth  professor, 
John  Woodman,  for  whom  Higgins  would 
name  his  second  son. 

When  Higgins  arrived  in  Worcester,  he 
already  had  plans  to  marry  Katherine  Cha- 
pin,  but  first  he  needed  to  pay  off  his  col- 
lege debts  and  save  a  little  nest  egg.  They 
were  married  in  1870  and  moved  into  a 
boardinghouse  on  Boynton  Street,  where 
most  of  the  school's  faculty  lived.  Soon, 
Milton  and  Kitty  were  able  to  purchase  her 
dream  of  a  house,  at  the  corner  of  Bliss 
(now  West)  and  Salisbury  streets,  the 
present  site  of  Goddard  Hall.  It  was  here 


Overleaf:  In  1925,  the  "new  "  Higgins  House  was  one  of  Worcester's  choicest  proper- 
ties. Clockwise  from  top  left:  Aldous  C.  Higgins  '93,  in  1940;  gables  show  a  recurring 
pattern:  anchor  and  porpoise  entwined;  details  from  the  garden;  the  elegant  Great  Hall. 


that  Aldus  Chapin  Higgins,  the  first  of 
four  Higgins  children,  was  born  in  1872. 

The  Higgins  children  were  a  familiar 
sight  on  the  Tech  campus,  and  it  was  only 
natural  that  Aldus  and  John  should  be  edu- 
cated here.  Aldus  graduated  in  1893,  and 
John  in  1896.  The  yearbook  of  the  class  of 
1893,  the  Aftermath,  shows  Aldus's  popu- 
larity among  his  classmates:  "'Allie'  is  a 
striking  refutation  of  the  doctrine  that  no 
good  thing  can  be  connected  with  the  fac- 
ulty. Be  it  said  to  his  credit  that  no  confi- 
dence of  his  classmates  was  ever  betrayed 
by  him." 

Aldus  left  Worcester  for  law  school  at 
Washington's  National  University.  In 
1898,  he  married  a  Washington,  D.C., 
woman  and  graduate  of  Vassar  College, 
Edgenie  Brosius.  Back  in  Worcester, 
Milton  Higgins  bought  the  triple-decker 
next  door,  at  218  West  Street,  for  his  son, 
and  Aldus  and  Genie  moved  in. 

At  about  this  time,  the  propriety  of  an 
educational  institution  carrying  on  a 
commercially  successful  business— the 
Washburn    Shops— became    increasingly 


controversial.  The  WPI  trustees  decided  to 
discontinue  the  business  of  the  Shops, 
retaining  but  a  small  teaching  role  for  it. 
Milton  Higgins  was  asked  to  resign.  With 
his  friend,  WPI  mechanical  engineering 
professor  George  Alden,  the  two  left  to 
continue  the  hydraulic  elevator  business 
they  had  started  in  the  Washburn  Shops. 

At  about  that  time,  Milton  Higgins 
became  a  partner  in  the  Norton  Company, 
with  its  new  grinding-wheel  business.  By 
the  time  the  Higgins  House  was  being 
planned  in  the  early  1920s,  many  changes 
had  taken  place  in  Aldus  Higgins'  life.  His 
beloved  wife  Edgenie  Brosius  had  died 
suddenly  in  1911  at  the  age  of  39,  leaving 
him  with  two  children,  Elizabeth,  1 1,  and 
Milton,  9.  He  continued  living  at  218 
West  Street,  next  door  to  his  childhood 
home,  and  in  1914  married  a  Worcester 
woman,  Mary  Sprague  Green,  known  as 
"May." 

Soon  after  their  marriage,  Aldus  bought 
a  dozen  acres  behind  the  Higgins'  homes 
on  West  Street,  then  a  barren  field,  from 
the  heirs  of  Harrison  Bliss  and  the  Worces- 


8       WPI  JOURNAL 


ter  Art  Museum,  who  had  been  donated 
the  land  by  Stephen  Salisbury.  Here  Aldus 
and  May  planned  their  dream  house. 

Aldus  had  risen  through  various  posi- 
tions at  Norton  to  become  treasurer  of  the 
company.  In  1914,  his  invention  of  the 
water-cooled  furnace  won  him  prestige 
worldwide.  His  work  frequently  took  him 
to  Europe,  where  his  interest  in  art  grew. 
He  loved  the  old  English  castles  with  their 


turrets  and  moats.  One  in  particular, 
Compton  Wyngates,  struck  his  fancy.  To 
duplicate  it  in  Worcester,  in  miniature,  on 
the  land  where  he  had  lived  most  of  his 
life,  became  his  passion. 

Compton  Wyngates,  located  in  central 
England,  in  Warwickshire,  was  built  in 
about  1525,  after  fortified  castles  were  out 
of  date,  but  it  retained  many  of  their  fea- 
tures—a moat,  secret  hiding  places,  multi- 


ple stairways,  and  towers  with  crenated 
battlements.  It  had  80  rooms  and  17  flights 
of  stairs.  In  the  1790s  it  was  ordered 
destroyed  by  the  destitute  Lord  Northamp- 
ton, but  a  servant  saved  it  from  ruin.  All 
but  30  of  its  275  windows  were  bricked 
over  to  avoid  paying  the  window  tax. 

Some  of  the  external  features  of 
Compton  Wyngates  are  replicated  in  Hig- 
gins  House:  the  multiplicity  of  ornamental 
brick  chimneys,  all  different  from  one 
another;  the  half-timbered  gables;  the  vari- 
ety of  building  materials— brick,  stone, 
wood  and  stucco. 

Both  homes  combine  many  styles,  per- 
haps because  both  used  materials  from 
other  buildings.  Aldus  Higgins  brought  in 
pieces  from  around  New  England  and 
from  Europe,  blending  antique  and  con- 
temporary, local  and  foreign,  to  create  a 
patchwork  quilt  of  a  house. 

The  blueprints  of  the  estate,  now  located 
in  the  WPI  Archives,  are  works  of  art  in 
themselves.  They  show  the  time  and  care 
put  into  planning  the  estate  by  many  archi- 
tects, who  worked  closely  with  Higgins, 
making  revisions  according  to  his  specifi- 
cations. The  plans  cover  the  minute  details 
of  the  house  and  grounds— window 
frames,  mantels,  brackets,  lighting  fix- 
tures, ironwork,  and  placement  of  green- 
ery. 

Construction  was  begun  in  1920,  halted 
for  a  year  due  to  financial  recession,  and 
"completed"  in  1923.  The  plans,  how- 
ever, show  that  Higgins  was  never  really 
finished  with  his  dream  house,  constantly 
remodeling  and  adding  details. 

The  Higgins  House  can  be  appreci- 
ated on  two  levels— the  overall, 
wide-angle  view  and  the  close-up. 
Upon  visiting  the  estate  for  the  first  time, 
one  is  impressed  with  the  grand  scope  of 
the  buildings  and  grounds. 

On  the  exterior,  the  heavy  stonework  of 
the  octagonal  tower,  and  the  vertical  lines 
of  the  five  chimneys  and  exposed  beams 
give  the  feeling  of  great  size.  Shielding  the 
house  from  the  outside  world,  massive 
oaks — older  than  the  house— and  tall  pines 
add  to  the  magnitude. 

Inside,  beginning  with  the  Great  Hall, 
the  number  (29)  and  dimensions  of  the 
rooms  continue  the  impression  of  size. 
The  Great  Hall  alone  measures  36  by  22 
feet,  with  a  36-foot-high  pitched  wooden 
board  and  beam  ceiling.  At  one  end,  a 
three-story  arched  window  overlooks  large 
expanses  of  lawn  and  magnificent  formal 
gardens.  Opposite  it,  the  balcony  and 
organ  loft  rise  high  over  the  main  floor. 
The  fireplace,  with  its  mantel  carved  from 


AUGUST  1984 


a  roof  section  of  an  Italian  monastery,  is 
large  enough  to  bum  a  six-foot  length  of 
timber. 

However,  it  is  the  attention  to  detail,  the 
personal  touches,  added  by  Aldus  and 
May  Higgins,  that  give  the  House  its 
appeal— that  make  you  notice  something 
new  each  time  you  visit  the  estate. 

On  the  outside,  the  five  chimneys,  all 
different,  exhibit  this  detail.  Their  brick- 
work is  in  spiral,  octagonal  and  diamond 
patterns.  The  central  chimney,  made  of 
three  sections,  is  protected  with  a  peaked 
copper  hood  supported  by  ornamental 
ironwork. 

On  the  east  side,  the  brick  is  laid  up 
between  exposed  beams  in  a  diagonal  pat- 
tern, with  only  the  ends  exposed  in  the 
form  of  flowers.  About  ten  kinds  of  brick 
were  used  in  the  construction,  but  care  was 
taken  that  they  be  laid  five  or  six  of  a  kind 
together  before  shifting  to  another  type. 

A  recurring  design  throughout  the 
house,  inside  and  out,  is  the  anchor  with  a 
porpoise  intertwined  around  the  shaft. 
This  anchor  and  porpoise,  with  the  name 
"Aldus,"  was  the  imprint  of  the  16th-cen- 
tury Venetian  printer  Aldus  Manutius, 
revered  even  today  for  the  quality  of  his 
work.  The  anchor  symbolizes  strength  and 
stability;  the  porpoise  speed  and  activity. 
Although  Higgins  may  have  chosen  this 
symbol  because  it  bore  his  name,  certainly 
its  meaning  is  appropriate  to  his  creation— 
his  house. 

The  anchor  and  porpoise  motif  can  be 
seen  on  approaching  the  house  in  a  large 
crest  on  the  outside  of  the  tower  wall. 
Inside  the  entrance  hall,  the  bricks  in  the 
wall  and  flagstone  on  the  floor  are  inter- 
spersed with  decorative  tiles,  flowers, 
ships,  birds  and,  again,  the  anchor  and 
porpoise.  The  stucco  gables  on  the  exte- 
rior of  the  East  Wing  are  imprinted  with 
anchors,  porpoises,  and  May  Higgins' 
symbol,  the  rose. 

Higgins  brought  iron  hinges  from 
England,  and  designed  ornamental  iron- 
work which  a  Swedish  craftsman  took  two 
years  to  complete.  On  the  face  of  the  Great 
Hall  balcony,  Higgins  installed  hand- 
carved  and  -painted  panels  representing 
the  coats  of  arms  of  all  owners  of  the  land, 
from  the  Indians  to  the  Higginses.  No 
detail,  it  would  seem,  went  unattended. 

In  contrast  to  the  dark  and  heavy  atmo- 
sphere of  the  main  rooms  is  Mrs.  Higgins' 
suite  (now  used  for  visiting  VIPs),  consist- 
ing of  a  boudoir  (sitting  room),  dressing 
room  and  bedroom.  This  area  was  redeco- 
rated in  193 1 .  The  walls  of  the  boudoir  are 
of  light  wood  in  panels  topped  with  ele- 
gant arches  and  carved  flowers.  The  floor 


The  boudoir  in  Mrs.  Higgins '  suite,  now  reserved  for  visiting  VIPs. 


is  parquet.  The  brown  and  white  marble 
fireplace  and  mantel  have  the  same  grace- 
ful curves  as  the  paneling. 

The  panel  to  the  right  of  the  fireplace  is 
a  concealed  closet  door.  Inside  is  a  win- 
dow overlooking  the  Great  Hall,  through 
which  Mrs.  Higgins  could  view  her  guests 
before  joining  them. 

The  aeolian  organ  in  the  Great  Hall, 
with  its  three-tiered  console,  was  a  source 
of  enjoyment  to  Aldus  Higgins,  although 
he  did  not  play  the  organ.  (It  was  played 
with  rolls.)  The  pipes  were  installed 
behind  the  uppermost  balcony,  the  front  of 
which  is  decorated  with  an  ironwork  pat- 
tern of  a  musical  score  with  the  words 
"Pastime  with  good  company  I  love  and 
shall  until  I  die,  grudge  who  will  but  none 
deny,  so  God  be  pleased  this  life  will  I." 

After  Aldus'  death  in  1948,  May  Hig- 
gins felt  no  need  for  the  organ  and  donated 


it  to  Saint  Joseph's  Abbey  in  Spencer.  It 
was  removed  from  Higgins  House  and 
installed  at  the  Abbey  by  the  same  crafts- 
men who  had  originally  installed  it. 

Higgins  was  an  admirer  and  collector  of 
paintings  and  stained  glass.  He  traveled  in 
Europe  with  Henry  Taylor,  director  of  the 
Worcester  Art  Museum.  Higgins  was  an 
artist  himself,  painting  mostly  landscapes. 
The  house  was  hung  with  paintings  by 
Picasso,  Braque,  Cezanne  and  Roualt, 
which  Higgins  bought  in  Europe  before 
their  value  escalated. 

The  House  was  a  wonderful  place  for 
entertaining,  and  the  Higginses  would 
often  host  parties  for  their  Worcester 
friends.  At  one  of  these  parties,  guests 
were  not  allowed  to  enter  without  an  origi- 
nal painting  done  themselves;  these  paint- 
ings were  hung  in  the  garage  for  viewing, 
and  a  prize  was  awarded  for  the  best. 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


I    Above:  Aldus  Higgins  previewed  his  art  in 
s    this  gallery  (now  a  storage  room). 


A  fter  Aldus'  death,  May  Higgins  con- 

ZAtinued  living  in  the  House  until  she 
L  A.  died  in  1970.  She  had  bequeathed 
the  Higgins  House  to  WPI.  However,  the 
15th-  and  16th-century  stained  glass  from 
European  churches  that  adorned  all  of  the 
larger  windows,  as  well  as  the  paintings, 
were  not  included  in  the  bequest.  They 
were  sold  at  auction  by  Parke-Bernet  Gal- 
leries, and  the  proceeds  from  the  sale  were 
used  to  pay  taxes. 

When  WPI  first  inherited  the  estate,  it 
was  at  odds  as  to  what  to  do  with  it.  Some 
suggestions  were  to  move  all  administra- 
tive offices  into  it,  to  tear  it  down,  or  to 
use  it  for  a  student  center,  infirmary,  or 
arts  and  humanities  center. 

A  planning  study  was  done  by  Charles 
W.  Moore  Associates,  to  offer  solutions 
for  the  annual  $20,000  upkeep  and  tax  bill 
of  the  House,  coupled  with  the  problem  of 


inadequate  student  housing  on  campus.  As 
a  result,  some  areas  of  the  house  were 
rented  to  students  and  faculty  while  other 
rooms  became  available  for  public  func- 
tions. The  main  rooms  on  the  first  floor— 
the  Great  Hall,  library,  sun  room,  dining 
room  and  kitchen  suite— were  prepared  for 
use  as  a  function  facility  by  a  committee 
composed  of  faculty,  staff  and  their 
spouses. 

In  the  fall  of  1971,  22  students,  16  men 
and  6  women,  moved  into  the  upper 
rooms— the  servants  quarters,  east  wing 
bedrooms  and  the  tower  room.  They 
shared  household  work  and  undertook 
maintenance  and  repair— waxing  floors, 
washing  windows,  rewiring  lighting  fix- 
tures, repairing  air  conditioning  and  heat- 
ing systems,  and  taking  care  of  the 
grounds.  They  also  set  up  the  main  rooms 
for  events  and  acted  as  guides. 


During  the  first  two  years,  Higgins 
House  received  heavy  use.  The  Spectrum 
Fine  Arts  Series  was  held  there;  an  Inter- 
session  course  given  by  Prof.  Edward 
Hayes  resulted  in  the  production  of  Tudor 
playwright  John  Heywood's  "The  Play  of 
the  Weather"  in  the  "Higgins  Manor." 
Sets  were  built  in  the  spacious  basement 
and  moved  to  the  Great  Hall  for  the  perfor- 
mance. There  were  weekly  buffet  lunches 
for  faculty  and  staff. 

Of  the  original  twelve  acres  of  the 
estate,  about  five  remained  when  WPI 
inherited  it.  As  the  campus  becomes 
increasingly  congested,  the  open  lawns  of 
the  estate  look  inviting  for  development. 
Two  attempts  by  the  college,  in  1971  and 
1981 ,  to  use  a  portion  of  the  land  for  park- 
ing lots  caused  such  protest  among  stu- 
dents and  faculty  that  these  changes  have 
been  put  on  hold. 

Presently,  the  main  rooms  of  Higgins 
House  receive  almost  daily  use  for  Contin- 
uing Education  programs,  reunion  func- 
tions, luncheons,  banquets  and  weddings. 
The  east-wing  bedrooms  are  used  as 
offices  by  the  Continuing  Education  semi- 
nar staff  and  by  a  trustee  of  the  Institute. 
The  former  servants'  quarters  house  four 
students  who  watch  over  the  house  and  set 
up  for  functions.  A  faculty  member  rents 
the  apartment  over  the  garage. 

Although  it  is  beneficial  for  WPI  to  be 
able  to  use  the  estate  in  these  ways,  the 
heavy  use  is  not  without  its  costs.  The 
beautiful,  ornate  entrance  doors— with  the 
Aldus  trademark  in  wrought  iron,  leaded 
windows  and  wood  carvings— lie  idle  in 
the  basement,  having  been  replaced  by 
more  utilitarian  models.  And  some  iron- 
work knobs,  latches  and  decorations  have 
disappeared  despite  stepped-up  security. 

The  value  of  Higgins  House  cannot  be 
quantified.  To  recreate  it  today  would  be 
impossible,  as  few  craftsmen  of  the  type 
employed  by  Higgins  still  exist.  The  cen- 
turies-old tiles,  corbels,  beams  and  stone- 
work could  not  be  replaced,  at  any  price. 

On  a  typical  sunny  spring  day,  one  can 
see  how  the  WPI  community  adores  the 
Higgins  estate.  In  a  stroll  around  the 
grounds,  flowering  with  azaleas,  rhodo- 
dendrons and  magnolias,  one  will  see  Fris- 
bee-playing  and  sunbathing  students  relax- 
ing from  college  pressures  and  staff 
members  eating  their  lunches  in  the  gar- 
dens. Probably  without  realizing  it,  they 
are  all  grateful  that  Aldus  Higgins 
dreamed  of  a  castle  in  Worcester,  and  that 
WPI  has  had  the  wisdom  to  preserve  it  for 
the  pleasure  of  so  many. 

Lora  Brueck  is  the  WPI  Archivist. 


AUGUST  1984        11 


Rich  Pryputniewicz: 


■--ail 


A  Giant  in  the  Land  of  Lasers 

WPI  steps  to  the  forefront  as  the  applications  of 
holography  and  fiber  optics  expand. 


By  Michael  Shanley 

Rest  your  arm  on  the  3,000-lb.  steel- 
topped  table  in  Rich  Pryputniewicz 's 
lab  and  watch  as  the  table  sags,  then 
with  a  hiss  quickly  readjusts  itself. 

Custom-built  in  California,  the  self-lev- 
eling table  detects  and  makes  allowances 
for  such  nearly  imperceptible  events  as  the 
vibration  of  Higgins  Laboratory  itself 
caused  by  trucks  passing  by  outside. 

Like  the  rest  of  the  several  hundred 
thousand  dollars'  worth  of  equipment  in 
the  two  labs  on  the  second  floor  of  Hig- 
gins, the  silver  table  is  a  precision  instru- 


ment. What's  happening  on  top  of  the 
table  surely  demands  precision:  calcula- 
tions are  being  made  on  objects  that  can  be 
altered  by  the  weight  of  a  single  grain  of 
sand  or  even  a  speck  of  dust. 

What's  going  on  in  those  rooms— where 
dazzling  beams  of  colored  lights  bounce 
off  mirrors  and  snake  through  tiny  glass 
tunnels— is  research  into  two  rapidly 
advancing  technologies:  holography  and 
fiber  optics. 

Six  years  ago,  there  were  no  steel-topped 
tables  in  Higgins  Labs.  There  were  no 
tables  because  there  was  no  Ryszard  J. 


("Rich")  Pryputniewicz.  (Pronounced  just 
as  it's  spelled.  Rich  likes  to  say.)  Rich 
built  the  labs  from  scratch,  getting  indus- 
try to  pay  for  the  equipment  in  exchange 
for  research. 

Before  joining  the  Mechanical  Engi- 
neering Department  in  1978,  Rich  spent 
seven  years  at  the  University  of  Connecti- 
cut—as a  graduate  student,  a  research  and 
teaching  assistant  and,  finally,  an  assistant 
professor.  That  last  position  was  a  joint 
appointment  in  the  School  of  Engineering 
and  the  School  of  Dental  Medicine.  In  that 
capacity,  he  was  involved  in  holographic 
research  that  today  stands  as  seminal:  the 


12       WPI  JOURNAL 


use  of  pulsed  lasers  to  make  holograms  of 
the  mouth,  skull  and  jaw. 

"We  were  working  with  real  people  and 
real  teeth,"  says  Rich,  "something  no  one 
had  done  before.  We  were  trying  to  iden- 
tify the  best  way  of  moving  teeth  with 
appliances— braces  and  the  like. 

"It  involved  the  examination  of  struc- 
tural properties,  stress  and  strain  on  the 
jaw  and  the  interaction  of  skull  bones— a 
complex  series  of  measurements.  But  we 
were  really  just  trying  to  answer  a  simple 
question:  how  do  teeth  move?" 

The  question  couldn't  have  been 
answered  without  holography— a  way  to 
take  3-dimensional  pictures  using  light 
patterns.  Holography  was  discovered  in 
1947  by  Nobel-laureate  Dennis  Gabor,  a 
Hungarian-born  scientist  working  in  Lon- 
don. Gabor  was  looking  for  a  way  to 
improve  the  power  of  the  electron  micro- 
scope (a  holography  application  that,  iron- 
ically, never  quite  worked  out)  when  he 
first  proposed  a  new  two-step  process  of 
lensless  photography.  Here's  how  the 
process  works: 

The  light  beam  from  a  laser  is  split  into 
two  parts.  One  part  illuminates  the  object. 
The  light  scattered  by  the  object  interacts 
with  the  second  part  of  the  beam  and  that 
interaction  is  recorded  (photographically) 
as  an  interference  pattern.  This  photo- 
graphic record,  or  negative,  is  called  a 
hologram.  For  the  second  step  of  the 
holography  process,  the  hologram  is 
placed  in  a  light  beam  that  reconstructs  the 
pattern  and  allows  the  observer  to  see  the 
original  image  in  perfect  3-dimensional 
detail. 

Gabor's  discovery,  which  he  called 
holography— from  the  Greek  words 
"holos,"  meaning  all  or  whole,  and 
"gramma,"  meaning  message— was  for 
years  impractical.  That's  because  the  sec- 
ond step  in  the  holography  process 
requires  a  coherent  and  monochromatic— 
or  ordered — light  source,  and  no  such 
practical  source  existed  until  lasers  were 
developed  in  the  early  1960s. 

For  the  uninitiated,  the  basics  of  holog- 
raphy can  be  difficult  to  grasp.  The  holo- 
gram itself,  for  example,  is  a  glass  plate. 
But  when  you  hold  it  up  to  ordinary  light 
all  you'll  see  is  an  unrecognizable  series  of 
markings.  What  you  won't  see  is  anything 
that  looks  like  the  object  that  was  photo- 
graphed. But  illuminate  the  plate  with  a 
coherent  light  source— a  laser— and  you'll 
see  a  perfect  image  of  the  object,  in  all  its 
3-dimensronal  glory. 

Another  tough  concept  to  handle:  drop  a 
hologram  on  the  floor  so  that  it  smashes 
into  a  thousand  pieces,  and  each  piece  will 


To  create  this  double  exposure  hologram, 
one  exposure  was  taken  of  the  empty  wine 
glass,  another  of  it  filled.  The  fringe 
patterns  show  displacement  by  the  liquid. 

have  the  entire  image  on  it.  Each  piece 
will  contain  all  the  information  necessary 
to  reconstruct  a  complete  picture  of  the 
object. 

Perhaps  most  fascinating— and,  for 
some,  perplexing— is  the  way  a  hologram 
allows  you  to  view  the  object  from  differ- 
ent directions.  One  analogy  frequently 
used  is  that  an  illuminated  hologram 
allows  an  object  to  be  viewed  as  if  through 
a  window— if  you  move  your  head  to  a 
different  part  of  the  window  you'll  see  the 
object  from  a  different  angle. 

For  scientific  and  industrial  applica- 
tions, though,  more  than  a  pretty  3-dimen- 
sional picture  is  required.  What's  needed 
is  a  picture  of  how  an  object  changes— 
when  it's  placed  under  stress,  for  example. 
For  that,  a  second  exposure  is  needed.  To 
help  explain  the  process,  let's  go  back  to 
the  dental  research  Rich  and  his  colleagues 
were  working  on. 

In  order  to  actually  see  how  teeth  move, 
one  exposure  is  taken  of  just  the  teeth. 
Then  a  set  of  braces,  for  example,  are 
installed,  a  force  is  applied  and  a  second 
exposure  is  taken.  What  you'll  see  now 
when  the  hologram  is  illuminated  is  a  pic- 
ture of  the  teeth  and  jaw  with  interference 
or  "fringe"  patterns  that  indicate  move- 
ment or  deformation  of  the  teeth  and 
bones.  Most  of  Rich's  research,  then  and 
now,  involves  interpreting  these  "fringes" 
and  translating  them  into  numbers  that 
indicate  the  degree  of  displacement  or 
deformation. 

This  concept  of  double-exposure  holog- 
raphy can  be  transferred  to  any  other  kind 


of  analysis— stress,  vibration  or  heat,  for 
instance.  As  mentioned  before,  measure- 
ments of  astonishing  precision  can  be 
made:  stress  on  a  heavy  object  caused  by 
sound,  wind  or  even  specks  of  dust. 
"Holography  is  capable  of  measuring  dis- 
placement on  the  order  of  1  billionth  of  a 
meter,  strain  on  the  order  of  0.2  micro- 
strains."  says  Rich.  "It's  especially  good 
for  testing  tiny  components  that  can't  be 
tested  by  traditional  means.  Some  people 
use  it  for  finite  element  analysis  or  heat 
transfer  studies— things  you  can't  measure 
"by  hand." 

Ask  Rich  how  he  got  interested  in  hologra- 
phy and  he  takes  you  back  many  years  and 
across  many  miles  to  a  suburb  of  Gdansk. 
Poland,  where  he  was  born  and  raised. 

"I  can  remember  my  father  buying  me  a 
camera  when  I  was  very  small."  he  says. 
"I  was  taking  photographs  before  I  was  in 
the  first  grade." 

Years  later,  after  Rich,  his  parents  and 
his  three  brothers  had  emigrated  to  the 
United  States  and  settled  in  Norwich,  CT, 
he  read  an  article  in  Scientific  American 
about  photography  by  laser. 

"I  started  to  read  on  the  subject  and  one 
thing  led  to  another,"  says  Rich.  "At  that 
time,  there  was  just  holography  with  a  sin- 
gle exposure— no  fringes." 

At  UConn,  Rich  met  a  professor  who 
was  also  interested  in  holography,  and  the 
two  began  working  together.  "It  was 
extremely  difficult  to  record  holograms  in 
those  days."  notes  Rich.  "The  equipment 
wasn't  advanced  enough." 

As  the  equipment  improved.  Rich  and 
his  colleagues  were  in  the  forefront.  They 
did  research  on  a  number  of  topics,  includ- 
ing stress  analysis  of  turbine  blades  for 
United  Aircraft  (now  United  Technolo- 
gies). 

So  it  was  with  a  strong  background  in 
the  use  of  lasers  that  Rich  came  to  WPI. 
When  he  got  here,  however,  the  going  was 
rough  for  a  while.  There  was  virtually  no 
laser  research  equipment  in  WPI's 
Mechanical  Engineering  Department,  and 
Rich  found  himself  spending  endless  hours 
in  meetings  or  doing  paperwork  in  an 
effort  to  win  research  grants.  He  credits 
President  Edmund  T.  Cranch.  former 
Dean  of  Faculty  Ray  E.  Bolz  and  Mechan- 
ical Engineering  Department  Head  Donald 
N.  Zwiep  with  helping  him  get  through 
those  difficult  times. 

In  hindsight,  it  was  a  January  1979 
Intersession  course  that  really  got  things 
started.  During  Intersession,  a  two-week 
period  in  January,  the  WPI  community  is 
offered  a  wide  variety  of  "minicourses" 


AUGUST  1984        13 


Peter  Hefti  works  with  the  ultra-high  accuracy  heterodyne  system  of  holography. 


taught  by  faculty,  students,  visiting 
scholars  and  experts.  Interest  in  Rich's 
laser  holography  course  was  great— 70  or 
so  students  showed  up.  Encouraged,  Rich 
integrated  the  study  of  lasers  into  some  of 
his  regular  courses. 

The  following  year's  Intersession,  Rich 
offered  another  holography  course,  this 
time  for  industry  representatives.  The 
response  was  overwhelming.  People- 
more  than  he  could  handle— came  from  all 
over  the  U.S.  and  Europe.  Rich  made  a 
number  of  important  contacts  at  the 
course.  Soon  thereafter,  grants  and  equip- 
ment began  to  trickle  in.  The  laser  labs 
began  to  develop. 

The  two  fully  equipped  labs  as  they 
stand  today  are  testimony  to  the  talent  and 
perseverance  of  one  man.  By  and  large, 
Rich  arranged  things  so  that  companies 
provide  him  with  the  equipment  he  needs, 
and  when  the  research  is  done  WPI  keeps 
the  equipment. 

What  kind  of  research,  exactly,  does 
Rich  do?  Good  question,  but  one  that  can't 
be  answered  directly.  Virtually  all  of 
Rich's  work  is  the  proprietary  interest  of 
the  organizations  that  fund  his  research. 

In  general  terms,  Rich  focuses  his 
research  as  well  as  his  teaching  on  the 
engineering  applications  of  lasers— their 
use  in  design  optimization  studies  and 
fluid  flow  or  in  measuring  temperature, 
distance  or  corrosion.  He  often  works  with 
Prof.  Ron  Biederman  or  others  from  the 
WPI  Materials  Engineering  group  using 
lasers  to  determine  material  properties. 


"It's  the  application  of  the  technology 
that  interests  industry,"  Rich  says.  "They 
all  want  hard  numbers,  and  that  we  can 
give  them." 

The  growing  number  of  industries  inter- 
ested in  holography  now  include  auto, 
chemical,  food  processing,  medical,  aero- 
space and  shipbuilding,  to  name  a  few. 

Few  companies  can  afford  to  do  their 
own  holography  research— it's  just  too 
expensive  to  equip  a  lab  and  support  a  full- 
time  research  crew.  For  many  big  firms, 
however,  research  money  is  not  a  prob- 
lem. United  Technologies,  General  Elec- 
tric, General  Motors  and  other  industrial 
giants  have  major  full-time  research  pro- 
grams in  holography. 

Rich  has  done  research  for  more  than  a 
dozen  firms,  including  General  Dynamics, 
Raytheon,  Wy man-Gordon,  Norton  Co., 
AMP  Incorporated  and  International  Har- 
vester. 

"For  years,"  says  Rich,  "few  people 
thought  holography  would  ever  be  really 
useful.  Now  people  are  starting  to  come 
around." 

Another  burgeoning  technology  that  Rich 
and  his  students  are  studying  is  fiber 
optics,  which  Rich  describes  as  a  "pipe- 
line for  light." 

The  fiber  is  a  long,  super-thin  glass  tube 
that  allows  light— from  a  laser,  for  exam- 
ple—to be  transmitted  at  incredible  speeds 
and  with  minimal  loss.  Bursts  of  laser  light 
are  replacing  electrical  signals  as  the  pri- 
mary means  of  telephone  communica- 


tions; optical  fibers  are  replacing  old  cop- 
per wiring.  Companies  like  AT&T,  GTE 
and  MCI  are  installing  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands of  miles  of  optical  fibers  a  year. 
With  300  times  the  information-carrying 
capacity  of  copper  wiring,  fibers  can  trans- 
mit huge  volumes  of  information:  it  would 
take  about  two  seconds  to  transmit  the 
information  in  an  entire  set  of  encyclope- 
dias. 

Glass  fibers  are  also  being  used  to  allow 
doctors  to  view  the  inside  of  the  human 
body  and  to  transmit  laser  beams  for  use  in 
surgery.  In  the  factory,  fiber  optics  allow 
light  to  be  directed  through  the  dirty,  dusty 
atmosphere. 

Brian  Nason  of  Saco,  Maine,  who  grad- 
uated from  WPI  in  May,  will  be  back  this 
fall  to  continue  the  fiber  optics  work  he 
began  as  an  undergraduate.  For  his  Major 
Qualifying  Project,  the  ME  major  studied 
the  use  of  remote  fiber  optic  sensors  for 
measuring  vibrations.  He  used  a  cantilever 
beam  as  a  standard  and  a  loudspeaker  to 
induce  the  vibration. 

"The  best  thing  about  it,"  says  Brian, 
"is  that  it's  non-invasive,  non-destructive 
testing— you  don't  have  to  attach  anything 
to  the  object.  And  you  can  measure  vibra- 
tions as  small  as  one  micron,  which  is  one 
times  106  meter."  Brian  hasn't  yet  defined 
his  graduate  topic,  but  he  plans  to  study  a 
fiber  optics  application  that  no  one  has  yet 
examined. 

Another  laser  lab  graduate  student  is 
Bob  Cruickshank  of  Scarsdale,  NY,  who 
is  studying  the  management  of  energy  sys- 


14       WPI  JOURNAL 


terns.  He's  using  computers  in  the  hologra- 
phy lab  to  design  software  programs  that 
would  automatically  run  household 
machinery— lights,  radios,  TVs,  hot  water 
and  heating  systems,  stoves — anything 
that  consumes  energy.  The  programs 
would  also  work  for  people  who  want  to 
generate  power  using  alternate  forms  of 
energy. 

Bob,  who  hopes  to  spend  six  months 
studying  at  the  University  of  Sterling, 
Scotland,  this  fall,  got  interested  in  holog- 
raphy while  working  as  a  work-study  stu- 
dent and,  later,  as  a  teaching  assistant  in 
the  laser  labs.  He  has  spent  a  lot  of  time 
putting  together  the  equipment  for  laser 
experiments  and  has  participated  in  sev- 
eral studies  dealing  with  laser  applica- 
tions. 

Ph.D.  student  Aman  Khan  of  Bangla- 
desh hopes  to  complete  his  holography 
thesis  by  December.  His  work  involves 
fundamental  research  in  heterodyne  holog- 
raphy, the  most  exact  method  known  for 
evaluating  fringes.  Currently  working  as 
an  ME  instructor,  Aman  hopes  to  stay  on 
at  WPI.  "It's  hard  to  find  research  facili- 
ties that  match  what  we've  got  here,"  he 
says. 

Another  regular  in  the  labs  is  Peter 
Hefti,  an  opto-electronics  specialist  from 
Switzerland  who  does  experimental 
research  for  Rich.  Peter,  who  spent  eight 
years  working  with  lasers  in  Europe,  came 
to  WPI  two  years  ago  after  meeting  Rich 
at  a  conference  in  France. 

Also  doing  graduate  research  are  four 
part-time  students  working  on  their  mas- 
ter's degrees  while  holding  down  jobs  in 
industry.  On  the  undergraduate  level,  five 
students  will  be  starting  holography  or 
fiber  optics  projects  this  fall. 

The  job  outlook  for  students  in  these 
fields  is  good,  says  Rich.  He  often  gets 
calls  from  companies  who  want  to  hire 
someone  who  can  "handle  a  laser." 

Between  overseeing  student  research, 
conducting  his  own  research,  teaching 
courses,  seeking  funding  and  attending 
conferences,  Rich  will  have  his  hands  full. 
But  that  will  be  nothing  new  for  this  man 
who  says  "for  me,  each  day  has  25  hours, 
each  week  eight  days."  You'll  never  catch 
him  standing  still.  Last  year,  he  toured 
Australia  and  New  Zealand,  lecturing  on 
holography.  He  frequently  travels  to  sym- 
posia or  conferences,  presenting  papers, 
learning,  making  contacts.  This  summer 
there  were  conferences  in  Brazil,  Japan 
and  Portugal. 

"Conferences  get  you  funding," 
explains  Rich.  "There  are  always  industry 
representatives  there.  Sometimes  it  takes  a 


Brian  Nason  makes  final  adjustments  to  a  fiber  optics  experiment  on  light  transmission. 


couple  of  years,  but  you'll  get  a  phone  call 
saying,  T  remember  you  made  a  presenta- 
tion on  such  and  such.  Here's  our  prob- 
lem. Is  this  feasible?'  " 

When  he's  not  teaching  a  class  or  rush- 
ing off  to  the  airport,  you'll  most  likely 
find  Rich  in  one  of  his  labs  doing  research. 

"The  beauty  of  research,"  says  the  man 
who  has  turned  down  a  number  of  lucra- 
tive offers  from  private  industry,  "is  that 
you're  free  to  follow  whatever  path  you 
feel  is  necessary— you  can  go  with  your 
gut  feelings.  Always,  you're  dealing  with 
unknowns,  and  there  are  lots  of  different 
directions  to  choose  from.  Here,  I  can 
make  the  choices.  In  industry,  they  make 
the  choices  for  you." 

Despite  his  hectic  schedule,  Rich  retains 
a  calm,  soft-spoken  demeanor  and  an  Old 
World  sense  of  hospitality.  Drop  by  his 
office  and  you'll  get  a  warm  welcome. 
You'll  be  offered  coffee  and  made  to  feel 
comfortable.  Students  who  come  to  his 
office  with  questions  are  treated  with 


respect  and  addressed  as  colleagues. 

Rich  finds  time  to  meet  with  nearly  all 
those  who  seek  him  out.  The  only  ones  he 
has  no  time  for  are  those  who  lack  com- 
mitment. He  simply  cannot  understand 
people  who  go  through  life  doing  just 
enough  to  get  by.  Not  a  surprising  senti- 
ment, really,  from  a  man  who  knew  not  a 
word  of  English  when  he  arrived  in  Amer- 
ica but  quickly  taught  himself  enough  to 
begin  taking  college  level  courses,  who 
wrote  a  detailed  100-page  monograph  for  a 
two- week  Intersession  course,  who  built 
two  laser  labs  from  scratch. 

Rich  Pryputniewicz  is  a  man  who 
believes  firmly  in  the  possibilities,  in  the 
25-hour  day.  When  it  comes  to  commit- 
ment, he  sees  no  middle  ground.  You're 
either  on  the  bus  or  off  the  bus.  In  action 
and  word,  he  urges  his  students  to  climb 
aboard. 

Michael  Shanley  is  Director  of  the  WPI 
News  Bureau. 


AUGUST  1984       15 


Golf,  Tennis,  Anyone? 

Reunion  '84  goes  into  the  archives  as  the  wettest — 
and  one  of  the  happiest — alumni  events  ever. 


Tradition  plays  a  leading  role  at  WPI 
Reunion  Weekends.  There's  the  all- 
class  Reunion  Luncheon,  the  rol- 
licking Old  Fashioned  Clam  Bake,  the 
Reunion  Parade,  hospitality  suites,  alumni 
awards,  campus  tours,  class  dinners,  fun 
and  games.  Lately,  some  might  even  add 
bad  weather  to  this  list  of  traditions.  For 
the  second— no,  the  third— year  in  a  row, 
we've  gotten  drenched  or  drizzled.  And  if 
any  weather  could  ruin  a  get-together  of 
old  friends,  it  would've  been  the  rains  and 
winds  of  Reunion  '84,  May  31 -June  3. 

And  yet,  few  who  attended  would  say  it 
did,  we'll  bet. 

In  addition  to  the  traditions  of  Reunion, 
golf,  tennis,  computers,  photography, 
stained  glass  and  the  Boston  Pops  were  on 
the  agenda.  And  even  though  the  rains 
began  on  Thursday  and  poured  until  Sun- 
day morning,  a  few  hearty  souls  actually 
completed  18  holes  of  golf;  others  found 
more  favorable  tennis  conditions  at  indoor 
courts. 

At  the  Reunion  Luncheon  on  Saturday, 
with  more  than  625  alumni  filling  Har- 
rington Auditorium,  the  Class  of  1917 
Attendance  Cup  was  awarded  to  the  50th 
Reunion  Class  of  1934  for  the  highest  per- 
centage of  members  attending. 

Alumni  awards  were  presented  to 
Robert  Fowler,  Jr.,  '36,  and  C.  John  Lin- 


degren,  '39  (Herbert  F.  Taylor  awards  for 
outstanding  service  to  WPI);  John  P. 
Burgarella,  '50,  Wilfred  J.  Houde,  '59, 
and  David  E.  Monks,  '64  (the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award  for  professional  achieve- 
ment); and  Patricia  Graham  Flaherty,  '75 
(the  John  Boynton  Award  for  outstanding 
involvement  by  a  young  alumnus). 
Finally,  Fr.  Peter  J.  Scanlon  was  presented 
the  WPI  Award  for  distinguished  service 
to  the  college  by  a  non-alumnus  (see  box 
story,  p.  18). 

Chester  Inman,  '  14,  celebrating  his  70th 
anniversary,  was  the  oldest  alumnus 
attending.  Fred  Costello,  '59,  came  all  the 
way  from  Hong  Kong;  Harvey  Rosenfeld, 
'59,  from  Holland;  and  Smil  Rueman, 
'49,  from  Israel. 

A  few  new  features  added  vitality  and 
variety  to  Reunion— the  golf  and  tennis 
tournaments,  continental  breakfasts  and 
open  house  at  several  academic  depart- 
ments, and  seminars,  like  those  on  photog- 
raphy and  computers. 

We  awoke  to  a  glorious  Sunday  morn- 
ing, with  eye-opening  proof  that  the  sun 
still  shines  in  Worcester— in  spite  of  the 
gales  of  Reunion  '84  .  .  .  and  '83  .  .  .  and 
'82. 

And  as  for  Reunion  '85  .  .  .  Ladies  and 
gentlemen,  you  may  place  your  bets  on  the 
weather. 


Jack  McManus,  Bill  Pursell  and  Stan 
Sokoloff,  all  '59. 


Open  houses,  in  the  EEand,  here,  ME 
departments,  were  a  big  hit  with  both 
alumni  and  faculty. 


Charlie  McElroy,  '34,  receiving  the  Reunion  Class  Attendance  Cup  from 
Alumni  Director  Steve  Hebert,  '66. 


Prof.  Robert  Norton  (ME)  gives  alumni  a  tour  of  WPI  s 
heavily  used  computer  facility,  the  "Apple  Lab." 


16       WPI  JOURNAL 


Alex  Papianou,  '57,  leads  the  singing  of 
the  Alma  Mater  at  the  conclusion  of  the 
Reunion  Luncheon. 


Six  alumni  shared  a  special  spotlight  at  Reunion  Weekend:  (Seated,  L-R)  Robert  Fowler, 
'36,  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  winner  for  distinguished  service  to  WPI;  Dr.  Edmund  T. 
Cranch;  Patricia  Graham  Flaherty,  '75,  recipient  of  the  John  Boynton  Award  for  out- 
standing service  by  a  young  alumnus;  John  Burgarella,  '50,  winner  of  the  Robert  Goddard 
Award  for  professional  achievement.  (Standing  L-R)  Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr. ,  '44,  vice 
chairman,  Board  of  Trustees;  Wilfred  Houde,  '59,  winner  of  the  Robert  Goddard  Award; 
Harry  W.  Tenney,  '55,  Alumni  Association  president;  David  E.  Monks,  '64,  Robert 
Goddard  Award  winner;  and  John  Lindegren,  Jr. ,  '39,  Herbert  F  Taylor  Award  winner. 


Reunion  Luncheon  1984,  with  635  in  attendance. 


AUGUST  1984        17 


To  an  Unsung  Hero 


Dr.  Arthur  Burr,  '29,  who  teaches  at  the 
University  of  Texas,  compares  notes  with 
Jonathan  Barnett  and  Professor  Hartley 
Grandin,  both  of  ME. 


On  a  tour  of  the  campus,  a  student  guide 
fills  alumni  and  spouses  in  on  what 's  new. 


aM 


Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch  at  dedication  cere- 
mony of  the  Class  of  '44  Carillon  in  Alden 
Memorial.  The  Carillon  rang  true  the 
entire  Reunion  Weekend. 


He  is  a  force  to  be  reckoned  with.  But 
not  just  his  imposing  size  or  the  boom 
of  his  voice.  There  is  something  about  his 
very  presence  that  says  in  unquestioning 
terms  that  the  Rev.  Peter  J.  Scanlon 
believes  in  himself  and  his  work. 

As  Catholic  spiritual  leader  for  WPI  and 
Holy  Cross,  and  as  Vicar  for  colleges 
throughout  Worcester,  Father  Scanlon 's 
name  and  face  are  familiar  to  students  of 
all  faiths  throughout  the  area. 

Yet,  as  so  many  students  will  tell  you, 
he  plays  more  than  a  spiritual  role  on  cam- 
pus. He  is  a  friend  and  counselor  as  well- 
to  students  leaving  the  security  of  family, 
often  for  the  first  time,  to  those  despairing 
for  whatever  reason,  to  anyone  who  sim- 
ply wishes  to  relax  and  talk.  Father 
Scanlon  is  accessible. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  Father  Scanlon 
graduated  from  St.  John's  High  School  in 
nearby  Shrewsbury  before  attending  Holy 
Cross  and  later  St.  Mary's  University  and 
Seminary,  Baltimore,  MD.  His  first 
assignment  in  Southbridge,  MA,  was  fol- 
lowed by  work  in  his  home  parish,  Ascen- 
sion, Worcester,  and  later  in  Rutland, 
MA,  and  Immaculate  Conception,  Wor- 
cester. In  1966  his  role  as  chaplain  to 
Catholic  students  at  WPI  was  expanded 


u 

1 

J  ^^^1                      I 

» 

l» 

tj 

1 

■1 

1 

\ ' 

■  —         1          3SM  MM 

1 

! 

L 

«'•! 

■^™^7^B          -s 

\h. 

Jj 

when  he  was  appointed  Newman  Chap- 
Iain,  working  with  students  at  WPI, 
Becker  Junior  College  and  Worcester 
State.  At  any  one  time,  he  has  been 
involved  with  up  to  12  colleges,  as  well  as 
serving  as  chaplain  for  the  Worcester  Fire 
Department  and  as  pastor  of  Our  Lady  of 
Fatima  Church,  Worcester. 

For  some  students,  college  can  become 
both  the  best  of  times  and  the  worst  of 
times,  as  academic,  career  and  social  pres- 
sures take  their  toll.  WPI  is  fortunate 
indeed  to  have  committed  to  the  spiritual 
health  of  its  students  a  person  of  Father 
Scanlon 's  warmth,  compassion  and  keen 
awareness  of  human  need. 

You  can't  put  a  number  on  his  contribu- 
tion to  WPI.  But  Father  Scanlon 's  work 
does  not  go  unnoticed,  though  he'd  be  the 
last  to  turn  the  spotlight  on  himself. 

So,  at  Reunion,  before  many  of  "his" 
former  students,  WPI  thought  it  only  fit- 
ting to  honor  Father  Peter  Scanlon  with  its 
WPI  Award,  given  for  special  service  to 
the  college  by  a  non-alumnus.  Only  five 
others  have  been  so  recognized.  Yet  even 
this  gesture  can  be  but  symbolic  of  the 
gratitude  and  respect  that  the  entire  WPI 
community  holds  for  this  large,  loving 
man  of  uncommon  generosity. 


The  Rev.  Peter  Scanlon,  winner  of  the  WPI  Award  for  distinguished  service  to  the  col- 
lege by  a  non-alumnus,  with  his  mother,  Mrs.  Peter  Scanlon,  and  his  sister,  Peggyann. 


18       WPI  JOURNAL 


Prism  of  the  Sky 

Bending  sunlight,  raindrops 

have  created  a  scientific  puzzle, 

an  aesthetic  marvel,  and  a 

continuing  symbol  of 

divinity  and  political  might. 


J 


RAINBOWS: 

AN  OBSERVERS  GUIDE 


A  rainbow  is  generated  by  you, 

the  sun,  and  the  raindrops,  at  the  proper  relative 

angles.  To  begin  with,  the  sun  must  be 

directly  behind  you. 

By  Raymond  Lee,  Jr. 


Your  next  rainbow  is  as 
close  as  the  nearest  gar- 
den sprinkler— and  as 
far  as  the  sun.  For  the  rainbow 
is  simply  an  image  of  the  sun, 
although  a  much  modified  one. 
Raindrops  perform  this  rear- 
ranging of  sunlight,  and  do  so 
by  two  processes:  reflection 
and  refraction. 

First,  the  over-all  picture: 
You  can  see  that  the  rainbow  is 
part  of  a  circle  centered  about 
the  shadow  of  your  head.  This 
is  true  of  any  rainbow.  This 
circle  of  light  is  sunlight 


reflected  by  some  of  the  rain- 
drops falling  in  the  distance 
and  it  is  quite  personal:  no  one 
else  sees  the  rainbow  you  see, 
because  no  one  else  is  in  a 
position  to  see  the  light 
reflected  from  the  same  array 
of  raindrops.  But  it  is  not  sim- 
ply reflected.  If  it  were,  the  sky 
in  the  picture  above  would 
merely  be  full  of  white  light. 
To  explain  the  rainbow,  we 
need  to  look  inside  a  raindrop. 
For  our  purposes,  raindrops 
may  be  regarded  as  imperfect 
one-way  mirrors;  most  light 


passes  through  the  drops,  but 
the  small  fraction  forming  the 
rainbow  is  reflected  internally. 
As  sunlight  passes  from  air  into 
the  raindrop  (or  vice  versa)  it  is 


bent  or  deviated  from  its  origi- 
nal path,  with  blue  light  being 
deviated  more  than  red.  It  is 
reflected  from  the  drop's  rear 
(see  diagram),  then  bent 
again— refracted— as  it  passes 
out.  This  combination  of 
refraction  and  reflection  occurs 
at  each  air-water  boundary,  and 
many  times  within  each  indi- 
vidual raindrop. 

Light  emerges  from  the  drop 
through  a  range  of  angles, 
spraying  reflected  light  over  a 
large  part  of  the  sky  opposite 
the  sun,  and  the  concentrated 


II       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


light  from  many  raindrops 
makes  the  light  bright  enough 
to  see.  However,  it  is  only  light 
that  is  refracted  on  entering  the 
drop,  reflected  once  from  its 
rear,  and  refracted  a  second 


time  on  exiting,  that  forms  the 
main  or  primary  rainbow. 

The  dispersal  of  the  light  dis- 
plays an  elegant  geometry, 
here  simplified  for  clarity.  Of 
course,  each  drop  is  penetrated 
by  many  rays  of  light  at  a  time, 
all  over  the  drop.  The  sunlight 
is  deviated  in  many  directions, 
the  particular  direction  depend- 
ing on  both  the  light's  color  and 
where  the  ray  of  light  enters  the 
raindrop.  As  shown,  a  ray 
which  passes  through  the  mid- 
dle of  the  drop  is  deviated  by 
180  degrees,  returning  in  the 
same  direction  it  came.  But  as 
rays  strike  the  drop  at  ever 
more  glancing  angles,  the  com- 
bined refractions  and  reflection 
result  in  their  being  bent 
through  smaller  and  smaller 
angles. 

This  process  does  not  con- 
tinue indefinitely,  however.  A 
ray  entering  at  one  particular 
spot  will  be  bent  by  138 
degrees,  the  minimum  devia- 
tion. Rays  that  enter  the  drop  at 
more  oblique  angles  are  devi- 
ated by  more  than  138  degrees. 
In  contrast  to  other  rays,  the 
minimum  deviation  ray  has  a 
great  many  neighbors  leaving 
the  drop  at  nearly  the  same 
angle.  And  by  nature's 
alchemy,  it  is  this  concentra- 
tion of  light  at  approximately 


138  degrees  from  the  sun 
which  forms  the  rainbow. 

Approached  another  way, 
whene\eryou  are  illuminated 
by  sunlight,  the  shadow  of 
your  head  is  180  degrees  from 
the  sun.  This  makes  the  bow  a 
42-degree  circle  (180  -  138  = 
42)  centered  about  the  shadow 
of  your  head.  All  rays  other 
than  the  minimum  deviation  (or 
rainbow)  ray  simply  add  to  the 
general  brightness  within  this 
42-degree  circle,  which 
explains  why  the  sky  is  gener- 
ally brighter  within  the  rainbow 
arc. 

Why  do  rainbows  come  and 
go  so  fast?  and  why  do  you 
sometimes  see  only  parts  of  the 
rainbow? 

It  is  the  combined  effect  of 
many  drops  that  gives  rise  to 
the  bow,  and  all  of  them  must 
be  at  the  same  angle  to  the  sun 
with  respect  to  you.  Thus,  at 
any  instant,  only  those  drops 
before  you  which  are  on  a  42- 
degree  circle  centered  about 


the  shadow  of  your  head  can 
send  the  concentrated  rainbow 
light  to  you.  These  drops  may 
be  at  any  distance  from  you— 
your  garden  sprinkler  will  do — 
but  must  be  on  the  42-degree 
circle. 

Since  the  raindrops  are  fall- 
ing, there  has  to  be  an  uninter- 
rupted supply  of  them  for  the 
bow  to  last  longer  than  an 
instant.  But  the  edge  of  a  shaft 
of  rain  can  pass  quite  quickly 
across  the  position  where  a 
rainbow  might  occur,  so  the 
bow  can  appear  or  disappear 
just  as  fast.  Or  a  cloud  might 
block  and  unblock  the  sun, 
bringing  the  rainbow  in  and  out 
with  its  source  of  light. 

Similarly,  if  any  part  of  the 
circle  where  the  rainbow  can 
occur  is  devoid  of  either  drops 
or  sunlight,  then  that  part  of  the 
bow  will  not  form.  This 
accounts  for  the  partial  bows 
we  often  see. 

Whether  the  drops  are  in  the 
sprinkler  spray  or  in  a  distant 


shower,  the  rainbow  is  merely 
sunlight.  So  chasing  the  rain- 
bow is  as  futile  as  chasing  the 
sun.  In  fact,  moving  in  any 
direction  is  equally  fruitless. 
There  is  no  point  in  backing  up 
to  photograph  the  whole  bow; 
it  won't  change  size.  Rather,  it 
will  seem  to  follow  you. 

The  rainbow's  colors  arise 
from  the  fact  that  the  minimum 
deviation  ray  is  at  a  slightly 
different  position  for  each 
color,  because  each  color  of 
light  can  only  be  bent  so  far, 
depending  on  the  color.  (The 
color  separation  that  light 
undergoes  as  it  is  refracted  in  a 
prism  is  an  imperfect  analogy, 
but  illustrates  the  process.) 
Consider  red  and  blue  as  the 
colors  that  bound  the  rainbow: 
because  blue  light  at  minimum 
deviation  is  bent  through  a 
greater  angle  than  red  light,  the 
red  light  is  closer  to  the  sun. 
Therefore,  red  will  be  on  the 
outside  of  the  primary  bow, 
closest  to  the  sun,  and  blue  will 


AUGUST  1984       HI 


be  toward  the  inside. (Red  rain- 
bows occur  at  sunset,  as  above, 
because  the  sunlight  itself  is 
red.) 

Although  an  indefinite  num- 
ber of  colors  is  possible,  their 
sequence  across  the  primary 
bow  is  invariant.  From  the  out- 
side to  the  inside  of  the  primary 
bow  the  hierarchy  is:  red, 
orange,  yellow,  green,  blue, 
purple.  But  even  casual  obser- 
vation shows  that  not  all  these 
colors  may  be  evident  in  any 
given  rainbow,  and  in  fact  col- 
ors may  vary  along  a  single 
bow.  But  the  order  does  not 
vary.  If  the  bow  displays  only 
orange,  yellow,  and  blue,  they 
will  be  in  that  order. 

To  explain  this  fact — one 
apparently  unknown  to  adver- 
tising agencies— let  us  look  at 
light  as  a  wave  phenomenon, 
recalling  that  waves  have  a 
highly  salient  property:  they 
can  interfere  with  each  other. 
In  fact,  light  waves  can  inter- 
fere in  somewhat  the  same  way 
as  water  waves.  If  you  drop 
two  stones  into  a  pool,  the 
expanding  rings  of  waves  will 
intersect.  Where  the  wave 
crests  coincide,  they  reinforce 
each  other  to  produce  a  larger 
wave  than  either  of  the  origi- 
nals. On  the  other  hand,  where 
a  wave  crest  of  one  ring  is 
combined  with  a  trough  from 
the  other,  the  perturbations 
cancel  out  and  the  water  is  at 
its  undisturbed  level. 

Although  light  waves  are 
electromagnetic,  not  mechani- 
cal, and  though  they  oscillate 
much  faster  than  water  waves, 


on  the  scale  of  raindrops  the 
interference  analogy  holds. 
Cancellation  of  light  yields 
darkness,  and  reinforcement 
yields  more  intense  light  than 


in  the  original  source. 

If  a  raindrop  reflects  and 
refracts  an  advancing  front  of 
light  waves,  much  as  a  curved 
beach  affects  water  waves,  the 
front  folds  over  on  itself,  as 
shown.  A  dark  and  bright  pat- 
tern of  interference  results,  and 
the  first  bright  band  is  the  pri- 
mary rainbow.  Other  bands 
account  for  the  pastel  supernu- 
merary bows  sometimes  seen 
within  the  primary  bow,  as 
well  as  for  the  dark  bands 
between  all  these  arcs. 

Further,  the  spacing  and 
width  of  these  interference 
bows  depends  on  the  size  of  the 
raindrops.  As  a  result,  the 
range  of  drop  sizes  in  a  shower 
partly  determines  the  intensity 
of  rainbow  colors.  Generally, 
the  bigger  the  raindrops,  the 
brighter  the  rainbow.  The 
smaller  the  drops— as  in  a 
fog— the  whiter  the  bow. 

The  secondary  rainbow,  a 
fainter  arc  outside  the  primary, 
is  noticeable  for  the  fact  that  its 
color  order  is  reversed  with 
respect  to  the  main  bow:  the 


red  is  inside,  facing  the  main 
bow,  while  the  blue  is  outside. 
The  reason  is  that,  in  compari- 
son to  the  primary  rainbow  ray, 
the  rainbow  ray  of  the  second- 
ary has  entered  a  different 
drop,  and  sunlight  has  been 
internally  reflected  twice,  not 
once.  (See  diagram,  which 
uses  ray  theory  for  conven- 
ience.) 

Consider  what  happens  if 
light  is  reflected  a  second  time 
within  a  drop:  the  light  is 
canted  further  upward,  and 
another  minimum  deviation 


^v 

/  \   \ 

results,  this  one  at  about  23 1 
degrees.  And  since  each  reflec- 
tion is  accompanied  by  a 
refraction,  every  internal 
reflection  means  a  loss  of  sun- 
light out  of  the  drop.  (In  fact, 
at  each  bounce,  94  percent  of 
the  ray's  energy  is  refracted  out 
of  the  drop.)  Because  the  sec- 
ondary rainbow  has  two  inter- 
nal reflections,  then,  it  will  be 
less  intense  than  the  primary, 
which  has  only  one. 

The  color  reversal  in  the  sec- 
ondary occurs  because  of  the 
larger  minimum  deviation: 
sunlight  is  turned  through  more 
than  180  degrees.  To  get  a  feel 
for  this  concept,  pretend  that 


the  sun  is  setting,  so  that  the 
center  of  the  rainbows  is  on  the 
opposite  horizon.  Now  imagine 
that  you're  holding  a  pointer 
aimed  behind  you  at  the  sun. 
You  rotate  it  down  toward  the 
ground,  continue  up  to  point  at 
the  opposite  horizon,  and  finally 
rotate  it  up  further  until  it 
forms  an  angle  of  5 1  degrees 
with  the  earth  (180  +  51  = 
231). 

This  rotation  of  the  pointer 
mimics  that  of  the  rainbow  ray 
and  indicates  the  position  of 
the  secondary  bow's  red  arc. 
Since  blue  is  always  deviated 
more  in  the  rainbow  ray  than 
red,  if  the  pointer  rotates 
upward  about  3  degrees  more, 
it  will  mark  the  location  of  the 
blue  arc.  This  exercise  shows 
us  the  color  boundaries  of  the 
secondary:  red  on  the  inside, 
blue  toward  the  outside. 

There  is  only  a  small  separa- 
tion (9  degrees)  between  the 
minimum  deviation  rays  of  the 
double  rainbow,  but  the  separa- 
tion is  definite.  In  comparison 
to  the  light-filled  areas  on 
either  side,  this  narrow  arc 
between  the  bows  is  often 
noticeably  darker,  because 
drops  here  can  send  forth  no 
light. 

We  can  demonstrate  (and 
often  observe)  that  the  interior 
of  the  primary  bow  is  brighter 
than  the  background.  But  the 
distinction  may  not  be  visible, 
because  of  a  background 
whose  brightness  is  not  uni- 
form, a  sun  partially  obscured 
by  clouds  or  haze,  or  a  thin 
shaft  of  rain.  In  each  case,  the 
low  brightness  of  the  primary 
bow  means  that  only  the  rain- 
bow's pattern  of  colors,  not  its 
inherent  brightness,  will  be 
noticeable.  For  the  secondary 
and  supernumerary  bows,  even 
the  colored  patterns  will  be 
invisible  if  the  contrast 
between  them  and  their  back- 
grounds is  low.  And  since 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


these  bows  tend  to  be  dim, 
even  in  the  best  circumstances 
their  colors  appear  quite  pastel. 
This  explains  why  secondary 
and  supernumerary  bows, 
though  they  are  always  there, 
are  less  often  seen. 

Even  the  primary  bow  can- 
not be  seen  if  the  sun  is  much 
higher  than  42  degrees  above 
the  horizon  (assuming  the  hori- 
zon is  dead  level).  To  see  why, 
imagine  that  a  circle  the  size  of 
the  primary  bow  is  centered 
about  the  shadow  of  your  head. 
When  the  sun  is  higher  than  42 
degrees,  no  part  of  this  circle 
is  above  the  horizon,  which 
means  there  are  no  raindrops 
that  can  send  light  to  you  at  the 
rainbow  angle.  Of  course,  all 
sunlit  drops  are  still  refracting 
and  reflecting  light,  and  some 
of  that  light  is  being  bent  at  the 
minimum  deviation  angle.  But 
now  all  this  light  passes  above 
your  head. 

Of  course,  you  don't  have  to 
have  a  level  horizon  to  see  a 


rainbow.  Our  ubiquitous  water 
sprinkler  would  generate  a 
rainbow  at  the  bottom  of  the 
Grand  Canyon  if  the  spray 
were  sunlit.  Conversely,  if  the 
horizon  falls  away  below  you, 
then  a  more  than  semicircular 
rainbow  may  be  visible.  In 
fact,  from  a  plane  or  a  very 
steep  hill,  it  is  even  possible  to 
see  the  entire  rainbow  circle. 

Rainbows  are  most  often 
seen  in  summer,  because  the 
necessary  mix  of  rain  and  bro- 
ken cloudiness  is  more  com- 
mon in  summer.  Even  the 
lower  sun  altitudes  in  winter  do 
not  compensate  for  these 
reduced  opportunities  for  rain- 
bow watchers. 

At  any  time  of  year,  how- 
ever, you  may  be  surprised  at 
how  often  rainbows  can  be 
seen,  and  at  their  variety.  The 
rainbow  may  appear  with 
shimmering  iridescence  near 
the  horizon.  Or  it  may  look  like 
a  gauzy  veil  draped  across  the 
upper  reaches  of  the  sky.  But 
the  rainbow  is  more  ethereal 
than  any  veil — it  has  no  sub- 
stance, it  is  sheerest  light. 

Raymond  Lee,  Jr. ,  a  graduate 
student  in  meteorology  at 
Pennsylvania  State  University, 
is  writing  a  book  about  rain- 
bows with  his  adviser,  Alistair 
B.  Fraser. 


If  you  can 't  wait  for  a  storm,  try  stalking  a  rainbow  in  the 
misty  atmosphere  surrounding  a  waterfall. 


Photographing  Tips 


( 1)  Do  not  believe  your  light  meter,  which  will  be  fooled  by 
the  diffused  and  scattered  light.  In  order  to  make  the  rainbow 
colors  more  saturated,  you  have  to  underexpose  slightly.  Gen- 
erally, one  half  to  one  full  f-stop  will  work.  Your  eye  is  much 
more  sensitive  to  those  colors  than  the  film  is. 

(2)  Bracket  your  shot.  Make  several  exposures  on  either  side 
of  the  chosen  f-stop. 

(3)  You'll  generally  get  the  best  results  if  the  storm  is  in  front 
of  you,  so  that  it  creates  a  dark  background.  The  darker  the 
clouds,  the  better  the  contrast  and  the  brighter  the  rainbow. 

(4)  Cloudy  skies  tend  to  make  color  film  go  bluish,  so  that  any 
landscape  in  the  foreground  will  go  off-color.  A  skylight  filter 
is  a  faint,  rosy-tinted  filter  that  helps  screen  out  some  of  that 
excessive  blue,  and  it  will  help. 

(5)  Some  people  recommend  a  haze  filter  or  a  UV  filter,  but  I 
have  never  noticed  any  great  effect  with  either  one.  A  polariz- 
ing filter  is  actually  bad,  as  it  can  reduce  the  rainbow,  or  even 
make  it  vanish. 

(6)  People  tend  to  be  so  impressed  by  a  rainbow,  that  they  feel 
just  capturing  the  rainbow  on  film  will  produce  a  beautiful 
picture.  Then  when  they  get  the  picture  back  they're  often  dis- 
appointed. I  think  some  kind  of  foreground  interest  helps 
immensely,  because  it  makes  the  rainbow  one  element- 
though  it  may  be  the  major  element— in  the  total  composition. 
If  you  shoot  just  the  rainbow,  it  may  very  well  come  out  look- 
ing like  nothing  more  than  a  lens  flare.  The  rainbow  needs  con- 
trast with  something  in  the  real  world  to  look  its  ethereal  best. 

(7)  Shoot  quickly.  When  the  ideal  condition  goes,  the  rainbow 
goes,  and  there's  no  warning. 

—Ed  Thorsett 


AUGUST  1984       V 


GOD,  THE  RAINBOW, 
AND  THE  ARTIST 


In  Judeo-Christian 
culture,  artists  have 
tended  to  ignore  the 
natural  rainbow 
in  favor  of  the 
mythological  one. 


Albrecht  Diirer's  Adoration  of  the  Trin- 
ity (1511,  Kunsthistorisches  Museum, 
Vienna)  shows  the  rainbow  used  as  sheer 
convention,  as  a  straightforward  sign  of 
divinity.  Both  God  and  Christ  are  sup- 
ported by  the  rainbow,  a  rainbow  so  solid 
that  their  garments  fold  over  it.  This  car- 
pentered bow  bears  scant  resemblance 
to  natural  rainbows. 

The  rainbow  as  symbol  of  divinity  was 
hardly  new  with  Christianity.  In  Greek 
myth,  the  goddess  Iris  travelled  the  rain- 
bow as  Zeus  s  messenger,  meddling  in 
human  affairs  and  often  bringing  por- 
tents of  war  and  death. 


Research  by  Raymond  Lee,  Jr. 
and  Alistair  B.  Fraser 


In  Last  Judgment  (1473,  Muzeum  Naro- 
dowe,  Gdansk)  Hans  Memling  depicts 
the  rainbow  of  Revelation  4:3,  with 
Christ  as  Judge  of  the  World.  Below,  the 
Archangel  Michael  weighs  the  souls  of 
men  as  they  are  stripped  naked  for  judg- 
ment. There  were  hundreds  of  paintings 
of  this  subject,  intended  to  frighten  sin- 
ners into  repenting  before  it  was  too  late. 


Memling's  rainbow  is  moderately  real- 
istic. He  clearly  knew  the  rainbow  was  a 
circle  (in  itself  an  emblem  of  divine  per- 
fection), and  he  even  includes  what  may 
be  a  supernumerary  bow.  The  colors  he 
paints  are  possible.  The  rainbow 's  rela- 
tion to  the  illumination  is  not,  however; 
nor  is  the  way  that  it  swoops  forward 
from  a  base  at  the  distant  horizon. 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Several  centuries  later,  William  Blake 's 
Four  and  Twenty  Elders  casting  their 
crowns  before  the  divine  throne 
(c.  1805,  Tate  Gallery,  London)  also 
draws  on  Revelation.  Surrounding 
Christ's  throne  are  24  elders  of  the 
angelic  court  that  will  sit  with  Christ  in 
judgment. 

Notice  the  rainbow — a  double  rainbow, 
even.  In  other  drawings,  Blake  paints  the 
rainbow 's  colors  in  plausible  order.  But 
here,  the  colors  are  backward,  Why  are 
they  wrong  in  this  instance?  Possibly  he 
painted  them  so  on  purpose,  as  part  of 
his  intellectual  feud  with  Newton,  who 
had  experimentally  determined  the  color 
order  in  the  rainbow.  Blake  saw  Newton 
as  a  man  of  science  and  scientific  law,  as 
opposed  to  himself,  a  man  of  spirit.  In  a 
letter  to  a  friend,  Blake  writes,  ".  .  .  may 
God  us  keep/from  single  vision  and 
Newton 's  sleep." 


In  John  Constable 's  Salisbury  Cathe- 
dral from  the  Meadows  (1831,  Private 
Collection,  currently  on  exhibit  at  the 
National  Gallery  in  London),  the  rain- 
bow embraces  Salisbury  Cathedral.  Con- 
stable prided  himself  on  his  observation 
of  nature  and  was  an  exacting  cloud 
painter;  he  had  also  studied  rainbows. 
But  this  bow  has  subtle  faults:  the  inside 
darkness  is  possible  but  unlikely;  the 
shadows  should  point  to  the  bow 's  center; 
and  the  sun 's  altitude  is  wrong.  The 
storm  threatening  the  cathedral  may 
symbolize  the  turbulent  church  politics  of 
Constable 's  day.  Arching  above  the 
cathedral,  the  rainbow  hints  of  hope  and 
divine  protection. 


"My  heart  leaps  up  when  I  behold/ A 
rainbow  in  the  sky  ".  Those  were  the 
words  of  William  Wordsworth  in  1802,  a 
time  when  divinity  and  nature  were 
linked  in  poetry  and  art.  In  John  E. 
MilUus's  The  Blind  Girl  (1856,  City 
Museum,  Birmingham,  England),  the 
little  girl  obviously  sees  the  rainbow, 
while  her  companion  obviously  feels  it. 
It  is  as  if  the  rainbow  (a  double  one)  is 
giving  the  blind  girl  spiritual  food — and 
in  the  background  we  see  ravens,  in 
Christian  art  a  symbol  of  God's  provi- 
dence (an  allusion  to  the  ravens  which 
fed  Elijah). 


AUGUST  1984       VII 


Constantino  Brumidi's  The  Apotheosis 
of  George  Washington  (1865),  on  the 
Rotunda  dome  in  the  V.  S.  Capitol, 
descends  directly  from  medieval  and 
Renaissance  Last  Judgment  paintings 
such  as  Memling's.  George  Washington, 
looking  faintly  queasy  about  his  deifica- 
tion, rides  the  rainbow,  apparently  pass- 
ing judgment.  Below,  Lady  Liberty 
scourging  the  enemies  of  freedom. 


Even  without  political  and  religious 
motives,  it's  not  easy  to  get  the  rainbow 
right,  as  witness  Eric  Sloan 's  Weather 
Mural  (1976)  at  the  Air  and  Space 
Museum  in  Washington,  D.  C.  Sloan  spe- 
cializes in  meteorological  illustration  yet, 
like  many  before  him,  gets  it  wrong.  Any 
rainbow  is  sheer  sunlight,  and  all  sun- 
beams and  all  shadows  point  to  the  cen- 
ter of  the  rainbow,  like  spokes  on  the 
wheel.  Sloan 's  sunbeams,  however,  slant 
away  from  the  center  of  the  bow. 


In  what  has  come  to  be  called  The  Rainbow  Portrait 
(attributed  to  Isaac  Oliver,  c.  1600,  Private  Collection,  The 
Marquess  of  Salisbury),  the  rainbow  becomes  a  divine 
talisman,  in  the  hand  of  Queen  Elizabeth  I.  The  meaning 
would  be  clear  to  her  contemporaries:  Because  she  holds  the 
rainbow,  she  has  been  divinely  vouchsafed  the  right  to  rule. 
Indeed,  the  motto  (barely  visible)  says,  "No  rainbow  without 
the  sun."  That  is  a  perfectly  satisfactory  statement  of 
meteorological  fact,  but  also  a  statement  that  the  right  to  rule 
comes  from  Christ  (the  sun). 


VIII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Over  the  centuries,  the  rainbow  has 
emblemized  beauty,  peace,  a  link 
between  Earth  and  heaven,  a  link 
between  now  and  eternity.  And  being 
such  a  powerful  symbolic  device,  it  is 
naturally  used  to  huckster.  In  any  given 
shopping  day  the  alert  observer,  or  the 
not  so  alert  observer,  can  see  a  hundred 
commercial  rainbows — and  most  will 
have  oddly  mixed  colors.  Short  of  the  sun 
itself,  the  rainbow  has  been  exploited 
commercially  with  more  visual  noncha- 
lance than  almost  any  non-living  object. 
Witness:  There  are  more  than  100  Rain- 
bow Motels  and  Hotels  in  the  U.S.  and 
Canada,  more  than  200  Rainbow  Bar 
and  Grills.  Cigarette  ads.  Follow  the 
rainbow  of  CBS  Sports.  Jesse  Jackson 's 
"Rainbow  Coalition."  You'll  find  dozens 
of  rainbows  in  any  bookstore.  The 
Hewlett  Packard  HP45  graphics  com- 
puter is  portrayed  as  the  pot  of  gold  at  the 
end  of  the  rainbow. 

The  irony  is,  as  the  Observer's  Guide 
explains,  that  the  rainbow  flees  when 
pursued.  It  is  unattainable.  The  com- 
mercial artists  get  even  the  symbolism 
wrong. 


AUGUST  1984        IX 


What's  at  the 

end  of  the  rainbow 

puzzle? 


The  rainbow  has  always  inspired 
awe  and  puzzlement,  sometimes 
joy  and  worship.  But  just  as  often, 
the  bow  has  been  seen  as  a  harbinger  of 
doom.  For  the  Norse,  the  rainbow  was 
Bifrost.  the  bridge  between  heaven  and 
earth.  Bifrost  was  built  by  the  Norse  gods 
for  their  daily  travels  to  earth,  where  they 
sat  in  judgment  of  men.  When  Bifrost  is 
stormed  and  collapses  in  the  climactic  bat- 
tle with  the  gods'  enemies,  it  signals  the 
twilight  of  the  gods— and  of  men. 

This  fantastic  quality  colored  early  sci- 
entific study  of  the  rainbow.  For  example, 
the  Indian  astronomer  Varahamihira 
(fl.  ca.  550  A.D.)  could  explain,  presum- 
ably without  qualms,  that  the  rainbow  is 
due  both  to  variegated  rays  from  the  sun 
and  to  "the  exhalations  of  serpents." 

Early  Greek  science  was  also  tinged 
with  myth,  but  in  the  sixth  century  B.C., 
the  Ionian  scientist  Anaximenes  correctly 
pointed  out  that  sunlight  forms  the  rain- 
bow. Yet  he  incorrectly  asserted  that  the 
light  reaches  an  observer  because  the  rays 
strike  an  impenetrable  cloud  and  return  to 
the  eye.  Because  rainbows  are  often  seen 
against  clouds,  some  version  of  this 
seemed  plausible.  So  the  notion  of  the 
reflecting  cloud  would  persist  for  centu- 
ries, in  the  face  of  better  explanations. 

From  Aristotle  (384-322  B.C.)  came 
antiquity's  most  extensive  treatise  on  the 
rainbow,  the  authority  of  which  continued 
largely  unshaken  into  the  17th  century.  As 
a  champion  of  common  sense,  Aristotle 
claimed  that  real  objects  and  phenomena, 
not  fantasies,  stimulate  our  senses. 

This  common  sense  approach  led  him— 
correctly— to  agree  with  Anaximenes  that 
sunlight  forms  the  rainbow.  But  it  also 
made  him  propose— incorrectly— that  the 
bow  was  reflected  from  a  monolithic 
cloud.  He  also  theorized  that  the  bow 
lies  at  a  particular  distance  from  the  eye. 
This  erroneous  but  influential  notion  may 
have  made  it  seem,  over  the  centuries, 
that  the  rainbow  was  a  physical  object. 

Equally  plausible,  yet  equally  faulty, 
was  Aristotle's  contention  that  there  are 
two  kinds  of  mirrors— large  ones  that 


The  title  page  from  a  1512 

commentary  on  a  reworking  of 

Aristotle  s  Meteorology. 

Aristotle,  Descartes, 

and  Newton — among 

many  others — tried  to 

unravel  the  rainbow's 

secrets. 


reflect  forms,  and  invisibly  small  ones  that 
can  cause  colors.  The  surface  of  a  cloud, 
he  thought,  reflects  a  rainbow  because  it 
consists  of  minute  mirrors. 

This  notion,  combined  with  his  own 
rather  murky  color  theory,  led  to  the  con- 
clusion that  the  varying  mixtures  of  dark- 
ness and  light  from  the  mirrors  resulted  in 
a  rainbow  of  red,  green,  and  violet.  This 
tricolor  rainbow  became  a  staple  of  later 
literature  and  art. 

After  Aristotle's  death,  most  rainbow 
theory  consisted  of  reaction  to  his  work, 
not  all  of  it  uncritical  repetition.  Among 
Roman  writers,  Seneca  the  Younger 
(3  B.C. -65  A.D.)  correctly  noted  that  the 
rainbow  has  an  indefinite  number  of  col- 
ors, not  just  three.  However,  he  disagreed 
with  some  people's  idea  that  raindrops, 
not  a  monolithic  cloud,  cause  the  bow. 

Eleventh-century  Islamic  writers  famil- 
iar with  the  ancient  texts  made  important 
contributions.  Among  these  writers  was 
Alhazen  (ca.  965-1039),  who  investigated 


optics  and  refraction  in  some  detail.  Still, 
he  followed  the  Aristotelian  insistence  that 
only  reflection  gives  rise  to  the  rainbow. 
He  also  explained  its  colors  with  a  theory 
similar  to  Aristotle's.  While  Alhazen  did 
not  advance  rainbow  theory  directly,  his 
quantitative,  experimental  approach  to 
optics  would  later  bear  fruit. 

European  rainbow  theory  advanced  rap- 
idly in  the  12th  and  13th  centuries,  partly 
because  Latin  translations  of  Aristotle 
were  now  widely  available  and  partly 
through  the  founding  of  major  universities. 
Often  sanctuaries  for  practitioners  of 
unoriginal  scholasticism,  the  universities 
also  produced  some  quite  original  thinkers. 

Among  them  was  the  Englishman 
Robert  Grosseteste  (ca.  1 175-1253).  Cit- 
ing tests  the  observer  might  make,  he  was 
the  first  to  state  unequivocally  that  refrac- 
tion is  crucial  to  understanding  the  rain- 
bow. However,  his  abandonment  of  Aris- 
totle was  wholesale,  and  he  seemed 
ambivalent  about  reflection's  role  in  rain- 
bows. The  result  was  a  faulty  geometry 
for  the  bow.  On  balance,  however,  his  use 
of  refraction  and  observation  were  vital. 

Still  unresolved  was  the  precise  role  that 
rain  or  cloud  droplets  play  in  the  rainbow. 
Whether  they  act  as  a  continuum  or  as  dis- 
crete transparent  globes  was  variously 
fretted  over  and  ignored. 

Then  Theodoric  of  Freibourg  (d.  ca. 
1310)  published  a  voluminous  tract  on  the 
rainbow  which  seemingly  answered  this 
vexing  question— and  which  was  the  first 
to  rely  on  measurements  from  labora- 
tory experiments.  Like  others  before, 
Theodoric  illuminated  a  hollow  glass 
sphere  filled  with  water  and  produced  a 
spectrum;  unlike  anyone  else,  he  con- 
cluded that  the  globe's  optical  properties 
are  much  like  those  of  a  raindrop.  The 
rainbow,  he  said,  results  from  the  com- 
bined effect  of  individual  drops  in  a 
shower. 

Although  Theodoric  acknowledged  that 
Aristotle's  work  had  some  worth,  he 
rejected  the  latter's  theory  of  a  continuous, 
reflecting  cloud,  for  "according  to  the 
same  Philosopher,  .  .  .  one  never  should 


X       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


depart  from  that  which  is  evident  from  the 
senses."  Theodoric  correctly  perceived 
both  refraction  and  reflection  within  the 
drop,  and  illustrated  their  combined  effect 
with  lucid  diagrams.  He  even  attempted  to 
explain  the  double  rainbow,  with  results 
almost  as  satisfying.  But  definitive  expla- 
nations of  why  the  bows  are  arcs  and  why 
they  have  a  nearly  fixed  angular  size 
eluded  him.  In  the  end,  he  invoked  time- 
honored  Aristotelian  explanations  to  solve 
his  difficulties. 

In  the  following  three  centuries,  the  rain- 
bow problem  was  quite  popular,  and  Aris- 
totelian ideas  were  energetically  reworked 
by  scores  of  scholiasts.  At  the  same  time, 
there  was  a  growing  restiveness  with  Aris- 
totle's ideas— though  Theodoric's  pioneer- 
ing work  was  infrequently  cited. 

Finally,  in  1637,  there  came  a  clear 
and  complete  break  with  ancient  notions 
about  the  rainbow,  when  Rene  Descartes 
(1596-1650)  proposed  a  new  scientific 
methodology,  offering  his  research  on 
the  rainbow  as  an  example  of  this  new 
approach.  (Analytic  geometry  was  another 
example.)  Apparently  unknowingly,  he 
had  repeated  Theodoric 's  experiment, 
reaching  the  same  conclusions  about  the 
refraction  and  reflection  of  light  passing 
through  a  drop. 

But  unlike  Theodoric,  Descartes  had 
techniques  that  allowed  him  to  evaluate 
refraction  quantitatively.  Using  these  tech- 
niques, he  was  the  first  person  to  know  (in 
a  quantitative  sense)  how  light  is  bent  as  it 
passes  through  a  raindrop,  and  he  showed 
that  it  is  bent  through  some  minimum 
angle.  Theodoric  could  draw  diagrams  of 
the  phenomenon;  Descartes  could  attach 
numbers  to  it.  Thus  he  could  answer  the 
persistent  question  of  why  the  bow  is  a 
circular  arc  of  light  at  a  fixed  angular  dis- 
tance from  the  sun.  But  then,  determined 
to  press  for  a  full  solution,  he  confidently 
offered  a  flawed  explanation  of  the  rain- 
bow's colors. 

Descartes  was  justifiably  proud  of  his 
accomplishment,  but  contemporary  reac- 
tion ranged  from  slights  to  indifference. 
He  had  committed  scholastic  heresy,  by 


abandoning  Aristotle.  Still,  during  the  bal- 
ance of  the  17th  century,  several  European 
scientists  extended  and  refined  his  solu- 
tions, and  at  last  a  satisfactory  explanation 
for  the  rainbow's  colors  emerged.  In 
1666,  Isaac  Newton  (1642-1727)  per- 
formed experiments  with  prisms  that  were 
to  revolutionize  scientific  thinking  about 
color. 

But  his  eagerly  proffered  outline  of  the 
work  was  rejected  by  several  prominent 
scientists.  Newton  was  stung,  despairing 
to  a  friend  that  he  had  given  up  "so  sub- 
stantial a  blessing  as  my  quiet,  to  run  after 
a  shadow."  Prudently,  he  delayed  publica- 
tion of  details  for  38  years  (until  1704),  by 
which  time  he  had  a  a  different,  if  not  less 
hostile,  audience.  Eventually  the  rigor  and 
repeatability  of  the  Newtonian  and  Carte- 
sian experiments  gave  both  respectability, 
and  no  one  took  serious  issue  with  them 
again  until  the  early  19th  century. 

Now  that  the  primary  rainbow  seemed 
well  enough  explained,  attention  shifted  to 
more  exotic  bows.  Speculation  grew  about 
higher-order  bows  (caused  by  multiple 
reflections  within  the  raindrop).  Reports 
of  unusual  varieties  of  rainbows— those 
reflected  in  water,  seen  in  dew,  or  the 
nearly  colorless  ones  seen  in  fog- 
increased  dramatically.  Even  more  discon- 
certing were  the  increasingly  frequent 
reports  of  several  narrow,  pallid  bows 
framed  by  the  primary  arc.  Such  rainbows 
had  been  known  for  centuries,  but  the 
main  bows  had  seemed  more  important. 
Newton's  theory  could  not  account  for 
supernumerary  bows  at  all. 

The  man  who  partially  resolved  the  new 
quandary  was  Thomas  Young  ( 1 773- 
1829),  and  his  solution  required  a  recon- 
sideration of  the  nature  of  light  itself. 
After  Newton,  prevailing  opinion  in  the 
18th  century  held  that  light  consisted  of 
mobile  infinitesimal  corpuscles.  But 
Young  approached  the  phenomenon  as 
wave  motion,  analogous  to  water  waves. 
With  this  theory,  he  could  explain  not 
only  the  main  rainbows,  but  also  a  number 
of  puzzling  optical  phenomena,  including 
supernumerary  and  fog  bows:  The  waves 


of  light  interfere  with  one  another  inside 
the  raindrop,  rather  like  the  interfering 
wakes  of  boats.  Moreover.  Young's  inves- 
tigations of  color  perception  helped  inau- 
gurate the  quantitative  study  of  rainbow 
colors. 

In  the  opening  decades  of  the  19th  cen- 
tury. Thomas  Young's  rainbow  theory 
won  acceptance  only  gradually,  but  it  did 
underlie  the  important  work  of  a  fellow 
Briton.  George  Airy  (1 801- 1892).  Airy 
extended  Young's  interference  theory  with 
newly  developed  mathematical  tech- 
niques, accounting  for  almost  all  rainbow 
features  and  even  explaining  small  varia- 
tions in  the  angular  sizes  of  rainbows,  for- 
merly baffling.  Because  the  theory  also 
made  clear  the  approximate  nature  of  ear- 
lier work,  it  met  with  some  resistance 
from  doctrinaire  Cartesians,  which  sub- 
sided as  experimenters  found  close  agree- 
ment between  Airy's  predictions  and  care- 
ful measurements.  Nonetheless.  Airy's 
theory  is  itself  only  an  approximation,  and 
later  19th-century  investigators  pursued 
refinements  and  alternatives. 

In  the  20th  century,  optics  has  offered 
increasingly  abstruse  physical  explana- 
tions for  the  rainbow.  However,  the  physi- 
ology of  vision  and  the  psychology  of  per- 
ception are  also  key  to  perceptions  of  the 
natural  bow,  and  are  outside  the  realm  of 
most  physical  theories.  Physical  theories 
may  explain  the  intensity  of  rainbow  light, 
but  details  of  its  perception  remain  in 
question. 

Equally  important,  nature's  experiments 
with  rainbows  are  not  so  carefully  con- 
trolled as  those  in  laboratories.  Twentieth- 
century  physical  theories,  elegant  and 
powerful  though  they  are.  have  not  yet 
explained  all  the  variability  of  natural 
rainbows.  Rainbows  are  raggedly  bright, 
some  parts  more  colorful  than  others. 
They  can  shift,  from  a  double  to  a  single 
and  back.  The  number  of  colors  is  legion, 
and  shifts,  as  well.  How?  It  is  poignant 
that,  after  all  the  effort  and  energy  expend- 
ed over  the  centuries,  we  still  have  as 
many  questions  as  our  ancestors  did. 

—Raxmond  Lee .  Jr. 


AUGUST  1^)84       XI 


iKL 

&**! 


mtflo 


SEYWOCK 


Have  you  ever  taken  thai  mimsy  journey 
down  the  New  Jersey  turnpike?  Then  you  'II 

recognize  something  in  this  poem. 

Lewis  Carroll's  "Jabberwocky"  is  here  bur- 
lesqued one  more  time,  in  a  previously  unpub- 
lished parody  by  the  late  Paul  Kieffer  (1881- 
19(f)) 

Kieffer,  a  former  Rhodes  scholar  from  Frank- 
lin and  Marshall  College,  was  an  attorney 
practicing  in  New  York  City.  His  niece,  Eleanor 
Rutledge,  believes  the  "Jerseywocky"  was  set 
to  music  and  performed  at  New  York 's  Century 
Club. 

For  best  effect,  read  to  a  friend. 


'Twas  bergen  and  the  erie  road 
Did  man  wan  into  patterson: 
All  jersey  were  the  ocean  groves, 
And  the  red  bank  bayonne. 

"Beware  the  Hopatcong,  my  son! 
The  teeth  that  bite,  the  nails  that  claw! 
Beware  the  bound  brook  bird,  and  shun 
The  keamey  communipaw." 

He  took  his  belmar  blade  in  hand: 
f  Long  time  the  folsom  foe  he  sought, 
)  Till  rested  he  by  a  bay  way  tree 

And  stood  a  while  in  thought. 

And,  as  in  nutley  thought  he  stood, 
The  Hopatcong  with  eyes  of  flame, 
ame  whippany  through  the  englewood, 
. .  lAnd  garfield  as  it  came. 

'J?  One,  two,  one,  two,  and  through  and  throug 
The  belmar  blade  went  hackensack! 
He  left  it  dead  and  with  its  head 
He  went  weehawken  back. 

"And  has  thou  slain  the  Hopatcong? 
Come  to  my  arms,  my  perth  amboy! 
Hohokusday!  Soho!  Rahway!" 
He  caldwell  in  his  joy. 

'Twas  bergen  and  the  erie  road 
Did  mahwah  into  patterson: 
All  jersey  were  the  ocean  groves, 
And  the  red  bank  bayonne. 


P 


LEATNG  HOME 


I  have  a  graduation  picture  on  my  desk. 
The  girl  is  pretty— at  least  to  a  moth- 
er's eye— with  dimples  and  wavy  hair 
and  straight  white  teeth.  She  has  cut  away 
the  background  of  the  photograph,  drawn 
a  graduation  cap  on  a  piece  of  paper,  and 
inserted  her  head  into  the  cap  so  the  pic- 
ture shows  herself  about  to  march  down 
the  aisle.  The  effect  is  subtly  witty,  and  I 
gather  she  is  pleased  and  excited  about  the 
end  of  high  school,  the  beginning  of  col- 
lege. 

I  can't  be  sure,  though.  Her  letter  didn't 
say.  She's  in  France  and  has  been  all  year, 
as  an  exchange  student  with  a  family  near 
Paris.  She  comes  home  in  July,  then  leaves 
for  college. 

In  my  mind  are  many  other  pictures. 
There  used  to  be  a  little  blond  girl,  muscu- 
lar and  solid  when  you  held  her.  Some 
people's  children  seem  wispy,  and  you 
fear  you  would  crush  their  ribs  if  you 
hugged  them  hard.  Katherine  was  not  like 
that.  Hugging  her  was  like  hugging  a 
puppy,  solid  and  warm  and  smelling 
faintly  of  sweat  and  the  day's  happy  dirt. 
In  my  mind,  I  see  her  sitting  on  the  floor, 
two  years  old  or  so,  one  chubby  leg 
cocked  in  the  air.  She  is  struggling  to  put 
on  her  own  sneakers— red  sneakers.  She 
liked  red  shoes.  She  looked  up  at  me, 
beaming,  and  said,  "Mother,  what  nice 
thing  are  we  going  to  do  today?" 

Such  a  happy  expectation.  But  that  was 
the  way  she  was,  and  some  nice  thing  usu- 
ally did  come  along.  She  might  play  in  the 
sandbox,  for  example.  Or  the  sprinkler.  Or 
dress  up  the  neighbor's  kittens  and  take 
them  for  a  walk  in  a  doll  carriage.  Or  she 
might  find  a  wonderful  new  rock— do  all 
children  collect  rocks?  When  she  was 
about  nine  there  were  rocks  lining  our 
walls,  rocks  on  the  windowsills,  rocks 
everywhere.  They  looked  like  just  plain 
rocks  to  me,  but  she  knew  where  she'd 
found  every  one.  When  she  was  old 
enough  to  do  Christmas  shopping,  age 
three  or  four,  I  took  her  to  the  cigar  store 
where  the  man  helped  her  select  the  one 
perfect  cigar  for  her  grandfather.  It  took 
quite  ten  minutes  to  settle  on  the  one  with 


Entering  college 
marks  a  watershed, 
for  parent  and  child 

alike.  I  am 

proud  of  the  young 

woman  Fve  raised — 

but  the  house  seems 

awfully  quiet. 

By  Elise  Hancock 


the  aluminum   case,   and   she   was   so 
pleased. 

When  she  was  in  about  fourth  grade,  I 
remember,  she  read  a  newspaper  story 
about  a  high  school  principal  who  had 
kicked  a  middle-aged  retarded  man  out  of 
the  school,  where  he'd  been  sweeping  the 
halls  and  carrying  water  for  the  football 
team  for  years.  The  principal  thought  stu- 
dents should  not  know  such  a  person.  But 
Katherine  has  a  brain-damaged  relative, 
and  she  wrote  the  principal  a  letter  about 
how  it  would  do  the  students  good  to  learn 
compassion,  and  how  sweeping  the  halls 
had  probably  been  the  high  point  of  the 
retarded  man's  day.  (I'm  sorry  to  say  the 


fellow  never  answered  her  letter.) 

Whatever  she  did,  she  did  intensely.  In 
the  summer,  she  liked  to  climb  trees,  ride 
bikes,  catch  fireflies.  She'd  run  and  run 
and  run,  and  come  in  at  night  all  sweaty 
and  glowing  with  scraggly  hair.  I  used  to 
figure  if  she  wasn't  dirty  she'd  had  a  bad 
day.  In  the  winter  she  liked  to  dress-up  and 
give  plays,  and  we  kept  a  big  chest  full  of 
old  clothes  and  wigs  and  pieces  of  cloth, 
even  a  pair  of  rubber  gorilla  feet.  She  liked 
to  make  burpsy-boomer,  which  was  any 
concoction  of  drinkable  liquids— cranberry 
juice  and  root  beer,  for  instance.  The 
odder,  the  better.  She  liked  to  play  store, 
for  which  we  had  a  collection  of  old  coffee 
cans  and  Cheerios  boxes  and  such.  And 
she  liked  stories.  I  read  to  her  every  night 
at  bedtime,  for  years  and  years,  from 
Good  Night,  Moon  on  into  Laura  and  Nar- 
nia  and  the  Borrowers.  She  would  sit  in 
my  lap,  in  the  rocker  where  my  mother 
had  once  rocked  me,  and  she'd  be  warm 
and  heavy  and  smell  like  soap,  and  she'd 
grow  heavier  and  heavier  and  heavier  till  I 
slid  her  limp  into  bed. 

I  still  have  artwork  done  by  that  child, 
laborious  crayon  outlines  of  people,  big 
circles  with  little  stick  bodies.  And  a  few 
of  her  toys,  which  visiting  children  are 
pleased  to  use— puppets  and  books  and  a 
few  dolls  and  Playskool  things.  Even  a 
few  rocks.  But  the  child  herself  is  entirely 
gone.  I  can  remember  the  warm  weight  in 
my  lap,  I  can  even  feel  it,  but  the  child 
herself  is  gone.  And  that's  what  I  find 
myself  thinking  about  as  Katherine  pre- 
pares to  go  to  college. 

This  wavy-haired  college  freshman  is  a 
wonderful  person,  warm  and  humorous 
and  intelligent  and  everything  a  parent 
could  possibly  ask— except  tidy— but  she's 
not  the  little  girl.  Where  did  she  go,  so 
quickly? 

And— corollary  question— where  did  my 
youth  go?  A  minute  ago  I  was  a  young 
mother.  Now  I'm  the  mother  of  a  college 
student.  That  makes  me  middle-aged,  and 
I  haven't  gotten  used  to  it  yet. 

So  whose  milestone  is  this?  Katherine 's, 
obviously.  It  is  the  beginning  of  her  adult 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


* 


St 

f 


'<%. 


life.  Myjob  as  a  parent  is  done. 
I  figure  I  should  listen  carefully  to 
anything  she  tells  me,  and  be  pre- 
pared to  send  the  cavalry  in  a  life 
or  death  situation;  and  I  should  be 
prepared  to  send  money  if  needed 
(that  would  often  be  the  cavalry); 
and  to  maintain  a  place  where  she  can 
stay  if  she  needs  to.  That's  it,  and  it 
doesn't  seem  like  much.  Really,  for 
the  first  time  in  18  years,  my  life  is 
my  own. 

So  what  am  I  going  to  do  with  it? 
Katherine  is  an  only  child,  my  first  child, 
my  last  child.  Even  after  all  her  months  in 
France,  I  sometimes  miss  her.  The  house 


« 


can 

seem  too  quiet, 
too  orderly.  Nobody 

keeps  me  up  to  date  on  the  latest  films, 
which  the  young  seem  to  know  by  tom- 
tom. Isn't  this  what  they  call  the  empty 
nest  syndrome?  Yes,  I  suppose  so, 
although  I  hate  to  admit  that  any  such 
cliche  applies  to  a  fine  and  unique  soul  like 
my  own— and  it's  also  freedom. 

I  don't  like  to  admit  to  a  sensation  of 
freedom,  either.  To  women  of  my  genera- 
tion, that  is  an  ugly  emotion  unsuited  to 
mothers,  who  are  supposed  to  adore  every 
moment  of  mothering.  Still,  I  feel  it. 
Katherine 's  father  has  conscientiously 
tried  to  do  what  a  father  should  do,  but 
it  is  hard  to  play  much  of  a  personal 
role  from  a  thousand  miles  away. 
In  fact,  Katherine  has  been  my 
responsibility  since  she  was 
three,  and  the  weight  could  be  heavy. 
I  sometimes  used  to  wish  that  I  could  have 
a  weekend,  just  one  weekend,  with  no 
responsibility.  To  come  in  when  I  pleased. 


AUGUST  1984       XV 


tt 


m 


i 


V 


To  go  out  impulsively.  To  not  cook  if  I 
wasn't  hungry.  That  would  be  heaven.  I 
thought. 

Now  I  can  have  that  heaven. 

Our  life  was  not  idyllic.  Katherine  and  I 
made  her  Halloween  costumes  together, 
yes.  and  all  those  things  I've  told  you 
about.  We  had  a  marvelous  time,  much  of 
the  time.  But  in  the  several  years  after  my 
marriage  broke  up.  the  child  was— one 
would  politely  say  demanding.  Not  her 
fault,  of  course:  her  world  had  turned 
somersaults.  Still,  she  was  difficult.  At  no 
time  has  she  been  punctual  doing  home- 
work. As  a  teenager,  she  kept  a  bedroom 
into  which  it  was  not  possible  to  walk. 
Really.  We  finally  just  shut  the  door.  (How 
she  emerged  from  that  mess  looking  like 
an  unrumpled  rose  I'll  never  understand.) 

But  I  couldn't  shut  the  door  on  the 
kitchen,  and  she  was  supposed  to  do  the 
dishes.  One  time  she  assured  me  she 
would  do  the  dishes,  yes.  she  definitely 
would  do  the  dishes,  if  only  I  would  stop 
nagging.  The  problem  was  that  I  was  such 
a  nag.  So  I  agreed  to  stop  nagging.  Three 
da\s  later,  when  there  was  no  dish  or  pot 
to  cook  or  eat  on  in  the  house.  I  mentioned 
the  matter.  She  told  me  I  was  nagging  and 
she'd  do  it  later— and  I  exploded.  I  was  so 
angry  that  I  scuffled  and  dragged  her  dow  n 
the  stairs,  into  the  kitchen,  and  scrubbed 
her  face  with  rancid  potato  peels  from 
three  days  back.  And  then  of  course  I 
helped  her  wash  her  face,  and  we  both 
cried,  and  she  helped  me  do  the  dishes. 

Another  time  I  got  so  angry  that  I  bit 
her— wonderful.  I'm  not  proud  of  that. 
I've  often  been  inattentive.  Also.  I  wish 
she  hadn't  spent  so  much  time  alone  or 


& 


w  ith  sitters;  but  I  had  to  work, 
sometimes  at  night.  I  still  don't  see  what 
else  I  could  have  done.  Also.  I  wish  I 
could  have  prcnided  more  in  the  way  of  art 
and  music  lessons,  but  I  couldn't  leave 
work  all  the  time  to  chauffeur. 

Well,  no  use  thinking  about  it  now. 
Done  is  done,  and  she  has  turned  out  well. 
Over  the  years.  I  have  sometimes  com- 
forted myself  with  the  thought  that  honest 
love  might  compensate  for  manv  flaws. 
and  maybe  it  did.  I  also  think  I  was  lucky 
enough  to  be  working  with  good  genetic 
material,  and  that  she  herself  has  been 
tough  and  brave. 

Of  course,  in  a  way  the  little  girl  isn't 
gone  after  all.  Which  is  a  new  thought  to 
me.  Somehow  I've  been  thinking  as  if  her 
essence  had  been  warmth  and  rock  collect- 
ing and  mudpies.  and  I  feel  that  way.  Car- 
ing for  a  small  child  is  so  tactile,  even 
sensual:  I  remember  two-year-old 
Katherine  with  all  my  senses,  whereas  the 
young  woman  is  modest  and  I  never  even 
see  her  naked,  let  alone  hold  her  as  \ou 


*  -VI 


7 


•\ 


ri 


would  a  baby.  But  the  important  part  of  the 
two  year  old  endures:  that  sanguine,  affec- 
tionate, concerned,  involved,  intense  per- 
son is  still  there. 

Katherine  is  one  of  life's  winners— at 
least  to  the  mother's  eye.  but  I  think  truly. 
She  has  tact,  compassion,  and  friends, 
both  among  her  contemporaries  and  older 
friends  (such  as  a  former  teacher).  She  is 
going  to  a  most  competitive  college,  and  I 
think  she'll  thrive  there.  She  may  not  play 
an  instrument,  but  she  already  knows  an 
enormous  amount  about  films.  She  goes  to 
museums  for  pleasure.  Whatever  she  does 
w  ith  her  life,  she  w  ill  do  it  with  generosity 
and  attention.  I  have  visited  her  in  France, 
and  in  her  year  there  she  has  obviously 
gained  in  maturity,  poise,  and  self-disci- 
pline. 

We  parted  on  a  Sunday,  in  London,  after 
a  few  days  of  riotous  play-going.  I  was 
packing  to  catch  a  plane  at  Heathrow .  she 
to  catch  the  boat-train  at  nearby  Victoria. 
"Well."'  she  said,  'goodbye.  Mother, 
thank  you  for  the  wonderful  time."  and  she 
hugged  me  hard,  kissed  me  goodbye, 
picked  up  her  suitcase,  and  left  for  the 
continent. 

And  after  it  was  too  late,  it  suddenly 
struck  me  that  she.  17  years  old.  had  never 
taken  the  boat-train  before.  My  baby! 
Wh>  hadn't  I  gone  with  her?  The  answer 
was  obvious:  she  knew  where  Victoria 
was,  and  we  both  knew  she  didn't  need 
help.  She  hadn't  even  asked  for  money! 
Here  was  an  independent  adult. 

What  a  happy  circumstance.  How  proud 
I  am. 

Yet  I  wish  I  could  have  the  little  girl  too. 
at  least  for  a  visit.  Or  long  enough  to  snug- 
gle her.  anyway. 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


YVPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Harry  W.  Tenney,  '56 
Senior  Vice  President 

Paul  W.  Bayliss,  '60 
Vice  President 

Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65 
Secretary-Treasurer 

Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 
Henry  R  Allessio,  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank,  '46 
William  J.  Firla,  Jr.,  '60 
Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty,  '75 

Fund  Board 

Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59,  Chair 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53 
C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39 
David  B.  Denniston,  '58 
Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53 


1917 


Brig.  Gen.  H.  F.  Safford,  retired  from  the  U.S. 
Army,  writes  that  he  is  celebrating  his  90th 
birthday  this  August. 


1929 


Percy  Newton  belongs  to  a  retirement  golf 
league  and  plays  up  to  five  times  a  week  "in 
season."  He  also  has  more  than  six  acres— with 
a  big  lawn  and  garden— to  keep  him  busy.  In 
the  winter  he  bowls. 


1930 


Myrton  Finney  writes,  "I  have  the  good  for- 
tune to  see  my  children  frequently.  I  have  four 
grandchildren."  Myrton  retired  from  Bell  of 
Pennsylvania  14  years  ago. 

Wilson  Rice  says  he's  so  busy  in  retirement 
that  he  hasn't  found  time  to  join  the  Golden 
Agers.  He's  been  restoring  wooden  antiques 
and  helping  to  repair  a  Masonic  temple  and  a 
church.  He's  traveled  to  Arizona,  Florida, 
Maine  and  Cape  Cod,  where  he's  done  a  little 
fishing. 

Arthur  Zavarella  was  one  of  thousands  of 
amateur  radio  operators  from  New  England 


who  responded  to  greetings  from  astronaut 
Owen  Garriott  as  the  space  shuttle  Columbia 
approached  the  coast  of  North  America  in 
December. 


1932 


Last  October,  Francis  Blouin,  retired  from  the 
Navy,  participated  in  Tokyo  as  a  member  of  the 
U.S.  delegation  in  an  international  conference, 
"Security  of  Sealanes  of  Communication." 


1933 


Kenneth  Gleason  writes  that  he  had  a  great 
time  seeing  the  Phi  Sigs  who  returned  for  last 
year's  50th  reunion.  He  lives  in  Newton,  MA. 


1935 


Leonard  Humphrey  currently  serves  as  village 
engineer  in  Chevy  Chase,  MD.  He  is  con- 
cerned with  street  lighting,  storm  drainage  and 
remodeling  the  village  office  building. 

Donald  MacMillan  was  recently  elected 
chairman  of  the  board  of  the  Upper  Blackstone 
Water  Pollution  Abatement  District  Commis- 
sion. He  is  the  last  remaining  original  member 
of  the  three-man  commission,  which  was 
formed  by  Worcester  and  Auburn  to  build 
a  $26-million  plant.  Mr.  MacMillan,  who 
took  an  environmental  engineering  course  at 
Springfield  Technical  Community  College, 
retired  as  a  senior  product  engineer  in  the  elec- 
trical cable  division  of  U.S.  Steel  Corp.  in 
1972. 


1936 


Leonard  Johnson  of  Amesbury,  MA,  spends 
his  time  boating,  gardening,  traveling,  visiting 
children,  consulting,  administering  a  founda- 
tion, maintaining  his  property,  reading  and  cor- 
responding. Retired  for  ten  years,  he  is  also 
conducting  genealogical  research. 


1938 


Last  August,  Robert  Abbe  attended  his  13th 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa  national  convention  since 
1952.  It  was  held  in  New  Orleans.  One  of  his 


granddaughters  now  lives  in  Florida,  so  there 
will  be  one  or  two  trips  south  each  year. 


1939 


Henry  Blauveit  still  works  for  the  Public 
Service  Electric  and  Gas  Company  in  Newark, 
NJ.  He  writes,  "Warren  Harding,  '42,  works 
on  the  same  floor  and  we  compare  notes." 
Last  winter  the  Blauvelts  visited  the  Tom 
Wingardners,  '40,  at  their  retirement  home  in 
Marco  Island,  FL. 


1940 


Kenneth  Fraser  recently  retired  from  Markel 
Corp.  and  now  works  as  a  special  products 
manager  for  National  Wire  &  Cable  Corp. 

Zareh  Martin,  who  writes  that  he  "can't 
retire,"  has  started  his  own  consulting  firm  in 
value  engineering. 

Harry  Terkanian  is  now  retired  from  Ray- 
theon and  residing  in  Lexington,  MA. 

James  Thurston  has  retired  from  the  Waites 
Co.,  Worcester.  He  lives  in  Damariscotta,  ME. 


1941 


William  Carroll  serves  as  district  sales  man- 
ager for  Wiginton  Fire  Sprinkler,  Naples,  FL. 

Dr.  Charles  Smith,  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  Rose-Hulman  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology, Terre  Haute,  IN,  spoke  on  engineering 
education  at  an  international  symposium  held 
April  16-19  in  Cologne,  West  Germany.  His 
presentations  at  the  World  Conference  on  Edu- 
cation in  Applied  Engineering  and  Engineering 
Technology  were  "How  Does  One  Teach 
Design:  Lectures,  Projects,  Cases?"  and  "On 
Writing  Engineering  Cases." 


1942 


In  December,  James  Robjent  retired  from 
Scott  Paper  Co.  He  resides  in  Waterville,  ME. 


1943 


Robert  Bierweiler,  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  16  states,  is  currently  the  chief  engi- 
neer at  Natgun  Corporation  in  Wakefield,  MA. 


AUGUST  1984       35 


Class  of  1934,  50th  Reunion 


Forty-six  members  of  the  class  checked  in 
at  our  class  headquarters  at  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  Inn  on  Thursday,  May  31.  That 
evening  President  and  Mrs.  Edmund  T 
Cranch  welcomed  us  at  a  reception  in  their 
lovely  home.  Following  this,  we  moved  to 
Higgins  House  for  our  50th  reunion  dinner 
party  as  guests  of  WPI. 

On  Friday,  the  rainy  weather  put  a 
damper  on  most  of  the  planned  outdoor 
activities,  like  golf  and  tennis,  though  we 
took  part  in  seminars,  tours  and  indoor 
tennis  during  the  day.  At  noon,  we 
enjoyed  a  pleasant  buffet  luncheon  in  Mor- 
gan Hall. 

Friday  evening  we  gathered  at  the 
Sheraton-Lincoln  for  our  class  banquet. 
John  Keenan  was  MC.  Also  speaking  for 
the  class  were  Charlie  McElroy,  reunion 
chairman,  and  Everett  Sellew,  class  presi- 
dent. Our  guests  were  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Robert  Reeves.  Bob  is  vice  president  for 
Student  Affairs  at  WPI.  He  gave  us  a 
lively  run-down  on  recent  events  on  the 


Hill  and  outlined  what  is  being  planned  for 
the  future. 

On  Saturday  morning,  following  a  con- 
tinental breakfast  hour  at  Morgan  Hall,  we 
attended  the  50- Year  Associates  meeting 
at  Kinnicutt  Hall.  At  this  meeting,  Prof. 
Donald  Zwiep,  head  of  the  ME  Depart- 
ment, gave  a  fascinating  talk  with  out- 
standing color  slides  on  his  recent  year  as 
president  of  ASME,  including  an  extended 
trip  to  the  Orient,  Hawaii,  Japan,  China 
and  Indonesia.  At  the  traditional  Reunion 
Luncheon  on  Saturday  in  Harrington 
Auditorium,  John  Keenan  presented  our 
50th  reunion  gift  of  $141,721.91  to  the 
college.  This  included  corporate  matching 
gifts. 

Our  class  won  the  Class  of  1917  Attend- 
ance Cup  with  an  attendance  of  48.3  per- 
cent of  our  members  able  to  attend  the 
reunion. 

See  you  at  our  55th! 

Howard  A.  Whit  turn 
Class  Secretary,  1934 


He  has  written  several  articles  for  professional 
journals.  The  Bierweilers  have  two  children 
and  two  grandchildren  and  reside  in  Needham. 
Calvin  Holden  retired  from  PPG  Industries 
last  December.  He  is  considering  doing  some 
consulting.  Meanwhile  he  helps  his  wife  with 
her  antique  business  and  is  still  heavily 
involved  in  Scouting. 


1944 


In  February,  Irv  Gerber  left  Gerber  Sales 
Corp.,  his  electronic  manufacturers'  represent- 
ative business  which  covers  New  England.  He 
writes,  "After  37  years,  I'm  selling  my  inter- 
ests to  the  employees,  but  will  continue  to  han- 
dle some  special  projects  for  the  company."  Irv 
was  in  the  electronics  industry  for  40  years. 
And  he's  not  really  retiring.  For  the  next  two 
years  he'll  be  attending  the  Bennett  School  full 
time,  learning  to  design  and  build  period  furni- 
ture. He  says  he's  always  "had  a  love  affair 
with  woodworking,"  and  that  he's  merely 
"trading  electrons  for  sawdust." 


1946 


Howard  France  holds  the  post  of  president  of 
Altair  Equipment  Co.,  New  Hope,  PA. 

Joseph  Pofit  of  Ludlow,  MA,  continues  with 
Crane  Co.  in  Indian  Orchard. 


1947 


Harold  Cole,  now  retired  from  Raytheon,  is 
currently  residing  in  Saco,  ME. 


1948 


In  March,  Arne  Kellstrom  joined  Hoerbiger 
Ventilwerke  AG  in  Vienna,  Austria.  Following 
a  training  period,  he  is  scheduled  to  go  to 
Singapore  to  help  develop  the  firm's  Southeast 
Asia  market.  In  1983,  he  retired  from  Ingersoll 
Rand  after  more  than  35  years  of  service.  His 
last  post  was  as  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  the  oil  and  gas  compressor  division. 
Before  he  joined  the  Vienna  firm,  the  Kell- 
stroms  took  a  short  vacation  in  Greece. 


1949 


Robert  Bareiss  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Technical  Association  of  the 
Pulp  and  Paper  Industry  (TAPPI).  He  is  direc- 
tor of  process-control  technology  at  St.  Regis 
Corp.  in  West  Nyack,  NY.  He  holds  degrees 
from  WPI  and  Boston  University. 

Eugene  Briggs  holds  the  post  of  plant  man- 
ager at  Baker  Equipment  Engineering  Co., 
Richmond,  VA. 

George  Carlson  serves  as  laboratory  super- 
visor at  BIW  Cable  Systems  in  Plymouth,  MA. 

Norman  Cotnoir,  formerly  with  Brown  & 
Sharpe  Mfg.  Co.,  North  Kingstown,  RI,  has 
retired. 

Sidney  Madwed,  president  of  Attitude 
Developers  and  Consultants,  Bridgeport,  CT, 
was  guest  speaker  at  the  January  meeting  of  the 
Fairfield  Board  of  Realtors. 

Dan  McQuillan  is  semi-retired  as  a  general 
management  consultant  and  corporate  director 
of  McQuillan  Associates  in  Venice,  FL.  He  is 
treasurer  of  McQuillan  Fisheries  Inc.,  Deep 
Ocean  Fishing. 

In  April,  Henry  Oletz,  facilities-budget 


engineer  for  Wyman-Gordon  Co.,  North  Graf- 
ton, MA,  received  the  Reginald  Washburn 
Award  from  The  Worcester  Boys'  Club  Alumni 
Association.  The  award  is  given  to  a  board  or 
corporate  member  of  the  club  who  has  given 
extraordinary  service  to  the  organization. 
Oletz,  who  attended  Clark,  has  a  master's 
degree  from  Northeastern. 

Edward  Pepyne  continues  as  an  attorney  and 
a  professor  of  law  at  the  University  of  Hartford 
in  Connecticut.  He  has  five  degrees  and  has 
held  education-oriented  jobs  with  public 
schools  in  Massachusetts,  Connecticut  and 
Rhode  Island  and  at  Michigan  State  University. 
For  12  years,  he  was  an  educational-program 
consultant  for  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty. 


1950 


The  Bill  Bowens  recently  returned  from  "a 
great  trip  to  Australia,  New  Zealand  and  the 
Fiji  Islands." 

John  Orcutt  is  manager  of  technical  aware- 
ness at  Combustion  Engineering  in  Stamford, 
CT. 

John  Seguin  is  an  account  executive  for  Nor- 
ton Co.  in  Newport  News,  VA.  His  daughter, 
Susan,  works  for  the  Tax  Council  in  Washington, 
DC.  Jane  is  a  senior  in  high  school.  Son  Steve 
works  in  computer  sales  for  NCR,  Norfolk. 


1951 


In  March,  Dr.  Donald  Sands  was  named  vice 
chancellor  for  academic  affairs  at  the  Lexington 
campus  of  the  University  of  Kentucky  (UK).  A 
professor  of  chemistry,  he  had  been  associate 
vice  president,  then  associate  vice  chancellor 
for  academic  affairs  since  1981.  Also,  he  has 
served  as  associate  dean  and  acting  dean  of  the 
UK  College  of  Arts  and  Sciences.  He  holds  a 
doctorate  from  Cornell.  Before  going  to  UK  in 
1962,  Sands  was  senior  chemist,  Lawrence 
Radiation  Laboratory,  Livermore,  CA. 

Donald  Spooner  has  been  appointed  man- 
ager of  the  advanced  technology  program  for 
Kodak's  U.S.  apparatus  division,  Rochester, 
NY.  He  started  with  the  company  in  1952. 
Prior  to  his  promotion,  he  was  managing  engi- 
neer of  product  engineering  with  the  advanced 
technology  program.  He  has  an  MSME  from 
MIT. 


1952 


Walter  Connor,  former  manager  of  Raytheon's 
equipment  development  laboratories  in  Way- 
land  and  Sudbury,  MA,  has  been  named  as  gen- 
eral manager  of  the  firm's  electromagnetic  sys- 
tems division  in  Goleta,  CA.  With  Raytheon 
since  1968,  Connor  had  previously  served  as 
manager  of  the  communications  systems  direc- 
torate, directing  all  technical,  business  and 
marketing  aspects  of  Raytheon's  military  com- 
munications systems.  Earlier  he  was  responsi- 
ble for  development  of  ground-based  tactical 
communications  systems.  He  belongs  to  the 
IEEE,  the  Armed  Forces  Communication  and 
Electronics  Association  and  the  Association  of 
the  U.S.  Army. 


36       WPI  JOURNAL 


1953 


Brady  Buckley  serves  as  president  of  Buckley- 
Owens  Machinery  Corp.  in  Fayetteville,  NY. 

Robert  Eisenberg  continues  as  regional 
sales  manager  for  TRW  in  Mahwah,  NJ. 

John  Flood  is  vice  president  and  general 
manager  of  Eckel  Industries  in  Cambridge.  He 
still  enjoys  sailing  his  Pearson  10M,  as  well  as 
competing  in  the  Marion  Bermuda  Race  and 
sailboat  races  on  Buzzard's  Bay. 

Herbert  Narbeshuber  is  general  manager  of 
Bauer  Gear  Motors  Inc.  in  Somerset,  NJ. 


1954 


Robert  Luoma  serves  as  senior  engineer  for 
GE  in  Sunnyvale,  CA. 

William  Zerlin  holds  the  post  of  applications 
engineering  manager  at  Solitron-Microwave  in 
Pt.  Salerno,  FL. 


1956 


Dr.  Roger  Tancrell  has  been  named  a  consult- 
ing scientist  at  Raytheon's  research  division  in 
Lexington,  MA.  Since  joining  the  company  in 
1968,  he  has  held  increasingly  responsible  posi- 
tions: the  position  of  consulting  scientist  is  the 
highest  scientific  level  attainable  at  Raytheon. 
The  holder  of  seven  patents,  Tancrell  has  a 
master's  degree  from  MIT  and  a  PhD  from 
Harvard. 

John  Taylor  does  air-traffic  control  research 
at  Boeing  and  teaches  at  Cogswell  College. 

A.  Ronald  Thomas,  manager  of  the  materi- 
als-management project  at  Public  Service  Com- 
pany of  New  Hampshire  (PSNH),  wrote 
"Introduction  to  Bar  Coding,"  which  appeared 
in  the  December  issue  of  Utility  Purchasing 
and  Stores  magazine.  He  is  currently  involved 
in  the  design  and  implementation  of  an  inte- 
grated materials  system  in  support  of  purchas- 
ing, accounts  payable  and  stores  functions  for 
transmission,  distribution  and  production.  As 
manager  of  the  PSNH  materials  department,  he 
helped  develop  central  warehousing  and 
delivery. 


1957 


Leon  Morgan  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Connecticut  Society  to  Prevent 
Blindness.  He  is  senior  vice  president  of 
finance  and  accounting  at  United  Illuminating 
Company  in  New  Haven,  and  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer.  He  belongs  to  the  Kiwanis 
Club  of  New  Haven  and  the  Quinnipiac  Club. 

Collins  Pomeroy  is  division  staff  manager 
with  NYNEX  in  White  Plains,  NY.  Last  year 
he  received  an  MS  in  advanced  management 
from  Pace  University. 


1958 


Michael  Gutman  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  product  engineering  at  Apollo  Com- 


Class  of  1944, 40th  Reunion 


On  Thursday,  May  3 1 ,  The  Great  Class  of 
1944  convened  its  40th  reunion  in  a  down- 
pour of  rain:  Sixty-one  members,  along 
with  50  wives  and  one  daughter,  were 
present. 

Our  reunion  started  off  with  a  Boston 
Pops  Concert,  a  first  for  a  WPI  reunion. 

Friday  saw  an  all-reunion  golf  tourna- 
ment— in  the  rain.  This  was  followed  by 
an  early  evening  cocktail  party  hosted  by 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Edmund  T.  C ranch—  Will  it 
ever  stop  raining  ? 

After  retiring  to  Higgins  House  for  a 
Class  of  '44  Clambake,  we  returned  to  the 
Hospitality  Suite  for  more  fun  and  talk. 
The  Civil  Engineers  started  designing  an 
ark. 

Saturday  morning  saw  the  class  assem- 
bled— in  the  rain— for  campus  tours. 
There  was  a  dedication  of  the  new  carillon 
in  Alden  Memorial  tower,  a  gift  from  our 
class  to  the  school.  The  ME's  gathered 
materials  for  the  ark. 

At  Reunion  Luncheon,  Erling  Lagerholm 
made  the  presentation  of  the  Class  Gift— 
$232,030,   including  matching  corporate 


funds  and  interest—  Why  is  it  still  raining? 

That  evening  the  Class  of  '44  held  its 
40th  reunion  banquet  at  the  Yankee  Drum- 
mer Inn.  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Cranch,  honorary 
members  of  the  Class  of  '44,  were  in 
attendance. 

George  Vogel,  Jr.  and  his  wife  were  also 
our  guests.  George  is  the  son  of  the  late 
George  Vogel,  Sr.,  '44,  who  lost  his  life  in 
military  service  shortly  before  George  was 
born.  The  Class  of  '44  wanted  George  to 
know  what  a  fine  person  his  dad  had  been. 

Jim  Donahue  was  MC.  Amid  all  the 
highjinks  of  the  evening,  he  convinced  us 
that  he  and  Dr.  Cranch  were  the  only  two 
people  in  the  U.S.  still  working— and  Jim 
wasn't  too  sure  about  the  president.  When 
will  it  stop  raining  ? 

The  reunion  came  to  an  end  on  Sunday 
morning  with  a  brunch  in  Morgan  Hall, 
where  we  all  said  our  final  farewells.  And 
the  sun  came  out! 

FOR  SALE:  ONE  PARTIALLY  BUILT 
ARK 

—Buzz  Gerber  '44 
Reunion  Chairman 


puter,  Chelmsford,  MA.  Prior  to  joining 
Apollo,  he  spent  ten  years  with  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.  (DEC),  where  he  served  as  product 
manager  for  storage  products,  engineering 
manager  for  memory  products  and  manager  of 
DEC's  small  systems  engineering  group.  He 
has  a  BSEE  and  an  MSEE  from  WPI. 

Bernard  Podberesky  serves  as  general  man- 
ager of  strategic  planning  and  materials  for 
GE's  nuclear  business  in  San  Jose,  CA.  "My 
third  daughter  starts  college  in  the  fall,"  he 
says. 


1959 


Donald  Carignan  continues  as  president  of 
Instrument  Technology  Inc.  in  Westfield,  MA. 
The  firm  specializes  in  remote-viewing  systems 
for  viewing  hostile  environments,  such  as  the 
inside  of  nuclear  reactors.  Don  is  also  chairman 
of  the  standards  committee  for  the  American 
Nuclear  Society  on  remote  inspection.  His  con- 
sulting activities  have  taken  him  to  the  Interna- 
tional Atomic  Energy  Agency  in  Vienna  and 
other  places  around  the  world. 

Michael  Hertzberg  heads  Consulting  Engi- 
neers Inc.,  a  firm  located  in  Waitsfield,  VT, 
and  concerned  with  engineering  for  architects, 
industry  and  government  agencies  in  many 
fields,  including  plumbing,  heating  and  energy 
management.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Vermont,  New  Hampshire  and 
Massachusetts,  a  past  president  of  the  Consult- 
ing Engineers  Council  of  Vermont,  and  past 
national  chairman  of  the  American  Consulting 
Engineers  Council  (ACEC)  interprofessional 
and  business  practices  committees.   A  past 


member  of  the  ACEC  planning  cabinet,  he  is  a 
recent  past  national  vice  president  of  the  coun- 
cil. He  is  active  in  community  affairs  in  Waits- 
field  and  likes  polo  and  skiing.  The  Hertzbergs 
have  two  daughters. 

Last  summer,  Edward  Koch  left  Raytheon  to 
become  a  principal  in  Rhodes  Engineering, 
Middletown,  RI. 

Dr.  Allen  Levesque  is  now  a  senior  engineer- 
ing specialist  for  Digital  Communication  Sys- 
tems, Sylvania  Systems  Group,  in  the  commu- 
nications systems  division  of  GTE  Products 
Corporation,  Natick,  MA.  Last  winter  he  and  a 
co-author  completed  a  book  on  digital  commu- 
nications scheduled  for  publication  next  year  by 
Wiley-Interscience.  Al  enjoys  hiking  and  has 
done  many  of  the  AMC  trails  in  New  Hamp- 
shire and  Vermont.  The  Levesques  have  a 
daughter  who  graduated  last  year  from  Smith, 
another  who  is  a  student  at  Merrimack  College, 
and  a  son  in  high  school. 

Robert  Pill  is  president  of  the  Ralph  Pill 
Electric  Supply  Co.,  Boston,  which  has  eight 
branches  in  Massachusetts,  New  Hampshire 
and  Maine.  His  wife,  Cynthia,  a  licensed  clini- 
cal social  worker,  is  studying  for  her  doctorate 
at  Simmons.  The  Pills,  who  have  three  chil- 
dren, enjoy  travel,  skiing,  sailing  and  tennis. 

George  Schreiner  is  currently  a  project  engi- 
neer for  Raytheon,  managing  the  development 
of  a  trainer  for  the  Patriot  missile  system.  Ear- 
lier he  had  been  with  Honeywell  for  nine  years. 
He  has  an  MS  from  Northeastern.  He  and  his 
wife,  Betty,  have  a  daughter,  Meghan,  1,  and 
three  sons. 

Two  years  ago,  Bob  Smith  retired  as  a  lieu- 
tenant colonel  (USAF)  and  as  chief  of  manage- 
ment information  systems  at  Rome  Air  Devel- 
opment Center.  Since  then,  he  has  been  director 


AUGUST  1984       37 


Lt.  Col.  Normand  Noel 
Promoted  to  Colonel 


In  formal  ceremonies  held  recently  in 
Providence,  RI,  Lt.  Col.  Normand  L. 
Noel,  '61  CE,  was  promoted  to  full  colo- 
nel in  the  United  States  Marine  Corps 
Reserve.  Major  General  John  J.  Salesses, 
assistant  base  commander,  Camp  Lejeune, 
NC,  officiated,  while  Mrs.  Tess  Noel, 
Col.  Noel's  mother,  pinned  on  the  eagles 
of  her  son's  new  rank. 

At  the  same  ceremony,  Col.  Noel  was 
awarded  the  Navy  Commendation  Medal 
for  meritorious  service.  He  is  a  veteran  of 
24  years  of  Marine  Corps  service,  having 
served  with  the  First,  Second  and  Fourth 
Marine  aircraft  wings. 

After  receiving  his  BSCE  from  WPI, 
Norm  served  three  years'  active  duty  as  a 
platoon  commander  in  the  regular  Marine 
Corps.  Upon  completion  of  active  duty,  he 
decided  to  continue  his  affiliation  with  the 
Corps  through  the  Marine  Corps  Reserve. 
In  1966,  he  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut  with  a  master's  degree  in 
business  administration.  He  was  elected  to 
Beta  Gamma  Sigma,  the  national  honorary 
business  society. 

For  the  last  13  years,  Norm  has  been 
associated  with  Gilbane  Building  Com- 
pany of  Providence,  RI.  Starting  as  man- 


Co/.  Noel  receiving  his  eagles 

ager  of  business  development  in  New 
England,  he  went  on  to  open  new  offices 
for  Gilbane  in  Washington,  DC,  and 
Houston,  TX.  He  led  the  effort  in  winning 
major  new  projects  for  Gilbane  such  as  the 
District  of  Columbia  new  court  facility, 
the  Orlando  International  Jet  Port  and  the 


Strategic  Oil  Storage  Program  for  the 
United  States. 

Having  now  switched  over  to  the  devel- 
opment side  of  the  house,  he  is  currently 
a  project  developer  with  Gilbane  Proper- 
ties in  Providence.  He  resides  in  East 
Greenwich. 


of  administrative  services  for  Measurement 
Concept  Corporation  in  Rome,  NY.  Bob,  who 
has  an  MBA  from  Xavier  University,  officiates 
at  soccer  and  lacrosse  games  at  high  school  and 
college  levels. 

Wilford  Sutthill,  a  superintendent  for 
GPGA,  Beulah,  ND,  is  involved  with  the  start- 
up of  the  nation's  first  full-scale  coal  gasifica- 
tion plant. 

Tom  Waage  and  his  son,  Richard,  '86,  are 
slated  to  participate  in  the  1984  Bermuda  race. 
Two  years  ago,  they  took  fifth  place.  Daughter 
Cindy  also  is  a  good  sailor.  The  Waages  live  in 
Bricktown,  NJ.  Tom  is  president  of  the  family 
business,  Waage  Electric  Inc. 

Robert  Walker  holds  the  post  of  sales  man- 
ager with  Fischer  &  Porter  Co.,  Warminster, 
PA. 

Ernest  Woodtli  continues  as  head  of  produc- 
tion engineering  at  Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Tuc- 
son, AZ.  His  wife  has  a  PhD  and  teaches  at  the 
University  of  Arizona,  where  their  son  plays 
basketball  on  scholarship. 

FredLutze,  Class  Secretary 


1960 


Paul  Allaire  is  now  senior  vice  president  and 
chief  staff  officer  of  the  Xerox  Corporation  in 
Stamford,  CT. 

Last  fall  Martin  Beck,  a  manager  at  the 
Cabot  Corporation  in  Billerica,  MA,  was 
elected  chairman  of  the  Northern  Middlesex 
Area  Commission.  He  also  serves  as  director  of 


the  Massachusetts  Federation  of  Planning 
Boards  and  as  vice  chairman  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Association  of  Regional  Planning  Agen- 
cies. He  is  a  former  chairman  of  the  Pepperell 
Planning  Board  and  a  member  of  the  town 
growth  policy  committee  and  the  state  hazard- 
ous waste  committee. 

Paul  Byron  serves  as  a  senior  resident 
inspector  for  the  U.S.  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Commission  in  Glen  Ellyn,  IL. 

James  Mahan  is  marketing  manager  in  the 
slurry  pump  division  at  Goulds  Pumps  in 
Baldwinsville,  NY. 

Dr.  Derek  Morris  is  now  an  associate  pro- 
fessor of  electrical  engineering  and  computer 
science  at  Stevens  Institute  of  Technology, 
Hoboken,  NJ.  From  1960  to  1983,  he  was  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Fort  Mon- 
mouth, where  he  did  communications  and  com- 
puter research.  While  at  Monmouth,  he  led  a 
research  project  in  artificial  intelligence  and 
helped  develop  Ada,  the  new  government  high- 
order  computer  language.  He  has  an  MSEE 
from  Newark  College  of  Engineering  and  a 
PhD  from  Stevens.  Besides  teaching  at  Mon- 
mouth College,  he  has  been  a  consultant  to  pri- 
vate industry  on  software  design  and  hand-held 
graphics. 

Ed  Russell,  general  manager  of  GE's  Inter- 
national Lighting,  was  a  speaker  at  a  recent  GE 
general  management  conference. 

Louis  Varuzzo  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  at  the  IBM  East  Fishkill  (NY)  plant. 
He  joined  the  firm  in  Poughkeepsie  in  1960  as  a 
technical  writer  and  had  served  as  development 
engineer  and  advisory  engineer.  He  is  the  recip- 


ient of  a  People  Management  Award  and  a 
Quality  Excellence  Award. 


1961 


Amory  Aldrich  holds  the  post  of  vice  president 
of  the  Bank  of  Boston. 

Henry  Allessio  is  now  a  partner  with  Easton 
Consultants  Inc.,  in  Stamford,  CT.  The  firm 
does  development  and  marketing  consulting. 

Richard  Ledoux  works  as  director  of  manu- 
facturing in  the  medical  electronics  division  at 
Honeywell  Inc.,  Pleasantville,  NY. 


1962 


Daniel  Brosnahan  is  regional  marketing  sup- 
port manager  for  Prime  Computer  Inc.,  Parsip- 
pany, NJ. 

Jay  Hochstaine  is  lead  engineer  for  Analyt- 
ics in  McLean,  VA. 

Richard  Sharkansky,  who  is  managing  pat- 
ent attorney  for  Raytheon  in  Lexington,  MA, 
has  an  MSEE  from  WPI  and  an  LLB  from  Suf- 
folk University  Law  School. 


1963 


Dick  Dann,  staff  editor  of  Machine  Design 
magazine,  has  won  a  Jesse  H.  Neal  Certificate 


38       WPI  JOURNAL 


Class  of  1959, 25th  Reunion 


Reunion  '84:  Tixe  Springfield  Kiltie  Band,  a 
tradition  at  WPl  Reunion. 

of  Merit  for  his  four-part  series  of  editorials 
helping  readers  to  understand  the  social  and 
cultural  forces  that  shape  designs  in  the  auto, 
aerospace,  machine  tool  and  farm  equipment 
industries.  Of  641  entries  submitted,  15  were 
awarded  the  Certificate  of  Merit.  The  Neal 
awards  are  regarded  as  the  most  prestigious  edi- 
torial awards  in  business  press  publishing. 

Dick  Kashnow,  general  manager  for  GE 
Quartz  and  Chemicals,  took  part  in  a  recent  GE 
general  management  conference. 

Michael  Kulig  is  plant  manager  for  Mon- 
santo Co.  in  Bridgeport,  NJ. 

Bob  Maynard  and  David  White,  '75,  of 
R.H.  White  Construction  Co.,  Auburn,  MA, 
presented  a  special  program  at  the  Worcester 
Engineering  Society  annual  banquet  held  in 
Shrewsbury  in  February.  The  title  of  the  pro- 
gram was  "The  Construction  of  Mt.  Wachusett 
Ski  Area— A  Team  Effort." 

Warren  Standley  continues  as  a  project 
manager  with  TRW  Inc.  He  and  Barbara  have 
four  children  and  reside  in  Acton,  MA. 

Bill  Zinno  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
materials  at  Dresser  Clark,  Olean,  NY. 


1964 


MARRIED:  S.  William  Wandle,  Jr.  and  Car 

oline  Haworth  on  February  18,  1984,  in 
Chelmsford,  MA.  Graduated  from  Bates  Col- 
lege, she  has  a  master's  degree  from  URI  and  a 
doctorate  from  the  University  of  North  Caro- 
lina. In  private  practice  in  Westboro,  MA,  she 
is  also  employed  by  the  Framingham  public 


If  a  laugh-meter  had  been  in  use  during 
Reunion  Weekend,  the  Class  of  1959 
would  have  won  top  honors  hands  down. 

The  highlight  of  the  weekend  was  the 
dinner  dance  Saturday  evening,  where 
Jack  McManus  gave  full  vent  to  his  talents 
as  an  MC  and  stand-up  comedian.  (Watch 
out  Johnny  Carson!  Not  to  mention,  Alan 
Alda— Jack  is  a  dead  ringer!) 

Other  highlights  of  the  dinner  dance 
were  reminiscences  given  by  Joe  Bronzino 
and  Bill  Curran,  as  well  as  by  faculty  and 
staff  members  Merl  Norcross,  Carl 
Koontz,  Donald  Zwiep,  Bill  Grogan,  '46, 
and  Bill  Task. 

Additional  weekend  activities  included 
a  warm  welcome  from  Dick  Bratt  and 
Dave  Sawin  in  the  hospitality  suite,  pho- 
tography and  stained  glass  seminars,  a 
personal-computer  program  and  campus 
and  city  tours.  Also,  various  open  houses. 


a  panel  discussion  on  WPI  today,  and  a 
New  England  Clambake.  Saturday  fea- 
tured the  Reunion  Luncheon  and  a  25th 
reunion  reception  at  the  home  of  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Edmund  Cranch. 

Sidelights:  Fred  Costello  flew  all  the 
way  from  Hong  Kong.  Mike  Hertzberg 
came  down  from  Vermont  to  present  the 
class  gift  of  $128,715.  And  several  other 
classmates  got  here  from  Florida,  Texas 
and  California.  The  class  set  a  record  for 
total  attendance. 

Kudos  to  the  following  committee 
members  for  a  fun-filled  reunion:  Dick 
Bratt,  Joe  Bronzino,  Don  Ferrari,  George 
Fotiades,  Norm  Hiatt,  Tom  Humphrey, 
Bob  Kieltyka,  Jack  McManus,  Norm 
Monks,  Tom  O'Connor,  Phil  Puddington, 
Ed  Salunier  and  Dave  Sawin. 

Al  Levesque 
Reunion  Chairman 


Reunion  '84:  Maggie  and  Al  Larkin,  '44. 


AUGUST  1984        39 


school  system.  He  is  with  the  U.S.  Geological 
Survey. 

Peter  Baker  is  involved  with  a  "start-from- 
scratch"  mediation  center  and  counsels  those 
convicted  of  drunk  driving. 

Peter  Dornemann  has  been  appointed  direc- 
tor of  marketing  at  Bellofram  Corporation, 
Burlington,  MA.  He  holds  an  MBA  from  the 
Wharton  School  of  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  has  extensive  experience  in  strategic 
planning  and  new  product  development.  Most 
recently,  he  was  director  of  marketing  at  Digi- 
lab  in  Cambridge. 

John  Gulliksen  is  now  vice  president  of 
product  development  for  Koehler  Mfg.  Co., 
Marlboro,  MA. 

Currently,  Dr.  Al  Potvin  serves  as  director  of 
medical  instrument  systems  research  at  Lilly 
Research  Laboratories,  Indianapolis,  IN. 

Frank  Stone  was  recently  named  Eastern 
regional  manager  responsible  for  sales  and 
service  at  Inland  Specialty  Chemical  Corp. 
Prior  to  joining  the  Costa  Mesa,  CA,  firm,  he 
was  vice  president  of  engineering  for  Automata 
Inc.,  Reston,  VA,  and  manager  of  printed  cir- 
cuit products  for  Enthone.  He  holds  an  MS  in 
chemistry  from  Southern  Connecticut  State 
College  and  has  published  several  papers  on 
processing  PC  boards. 

Robert  White  is  now  director  of  engineering 
at  Data  Translation,  Marlboro,  MA.  Fred 
Molinari,  '63,  is  president  of  the  company. 


1965 


Philip  Baker  was  recently  named  director  of 
the  video  games  division  of  Imagic,  a  Los 
Gatos,  CA,  computer  firm.  He  holds  21  pat- 
ents. 

Edward  Cheffetz  is  president  of  Intelligent 
Graphic  Systems  Corp.,  Bloomfield,  CT. 


1966 


Robert  Levine  has  been  named  vice  president 
of  Huck  Manufacturing  Company's  interna- 
tional division,  located  in  Irvine,  CA.  With 
responsibilities  on  five  continents,  he  writes,  "I 
do  quite  a  bit  of  traveling  around  the  world."  He 
enjoys  golf  and  tennis. 

Peter  Lukesh  is  section  manager  for  Ray- 
theon Co.  in  Bedford,  MA. 

Frank  Pfeiffer  has  been  promoted  to  profes- 
sor of  management  at  Nichols  College,  Dudley, 
MA.  He  joined  the  Nichols  faculty  in  1973  and 
holds  a  doctorate  in  business  from  UMass,  as 
well  as  an  MBA  from  Boston  College.  Since 
1979,  he  has  been  chairman  of  the  business 
management  department. 

Roy  Warfield  is  a  propulsion  system  repre- 
sentative for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  CT.  He  and  his  wife,  Donna,  reside 
in  San  Diego,  CA. 


1967 


John  Downes  holds  the  post  of  district  sales 
manager  at  Fafnir  Bearing  in  Southfield,  MI. 

John  Feldman  has  joined  Raytheon,  Lex- 
ington, as  manager  of  industrial  hygiene  and 


Reunion  '84:  Class  of  '64  members  at  their  Higgins  House  Reunion  Dinner. 


Reunion  '84:  Harold  Humphrey,  with  Eleo  and  Walley  Abel,  '39. 


materials  safety.  Previously,  he  was  a  manager 
of  environmental  programs  forGE. 

Steven  Frymer  serves  as  a  senior  civil  engi- 
neer for  the  Massachusetts  Department  of  Pub- 
lic Works.  He  has  two  children,  Rebecca,  5, 
and  Sam,  2. 

Greg  Goulet,  who  heads  Fawn  Realty, 
Nashua,  NH,  has  served  as  treasurer  and  direc- 
tor of  the  Greater  Nashua  Board  of  Realtors; 
president,  treasurer  and  director  of  the  Southern 
New  Hampshire  Multiple  Listing  Service,  and 
as  a  member  of  many  state  and  local  realtor 
committees.  Last  year,  Fawn  set  up  a  commer- 
cial-investment division  and  this  year  it  will 
enter  the  field  of  real-estate  securities  sales. 

Joseph  Slocik  is  a  senior  engineer  of 
advanced  transformer  development  at  GE.  He 
has  written  several  technical  papers  and  has 
submitted  nine  patent  dockets.  The  Slociks 
have  two  children  and  reside  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

With  Ford  Motor  Company  since  1972,  Alan 


Suydam  was  named  supervisor  of  Mustang  and 
Thunderbird  body  structure  and  sound  package 
development  in  January. 


1968 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  Kung  a 
daughter,  Catherine  Ann,  on  September  24, 
1983.  ..  .to  Charlotte  and  Bill  O'Neil  a  daugh- 
ter, Megan  Kathleen,  on  October  24,  1983. 
Megan  has  a  brother,  Sean. 

Cobb  Goff  is  a  photographic  engineer  for 
Kodak  in  Findlay,  OH. 

Frank  Kuszpa  has  been  named  director  of 
operation  and  maintenance  at  the  University  of 
Hartford.  Formerly  he  was  assistant  director. 
Before  going  to  the  university,  he  worked  for 
St.  Lawrence  University,  the  Canton  (NY)  pub- 
lic school  system,  Hobart  and  William  Smith 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


Reunion  '84:  Student  Ed  Ortler  and  George  Gove,  '18. 


Colleges,  Vassar,  Brandeis  and  Monmouth  Col- 
lege. He  was  also  director  of  facilities  opera- 
tions at  Columbia,  director  of  engineering  at 
Danbury  Hospital,  and  an  engineer  for  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  for  eight  years.  He  has  an 
MSMEfromRPI. 

Paul  Larini  was  recently  appointed  director 
of  competition  and  conservation  services  at 
State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He  has  a  master's 
degree  from  Northeastern.  In  1971,  he  joined 
State  Mutual,  being  promoted  to  manager  of 
individual  reinsurance  services  in  1978.  In 
1981,  he  earned  the  Society  of  Actuaries  pro- 
fessional designation  of  associate. 

Timothy  SchafTernoth  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  manager  of  industrial  process  and 
environmental  engineering  at  Rist-Frost  Asso- 
ciates, Glens  Falls,  NY.  A  licensed  profes- 
sional engineer  in  New  York,  he  holds  an 
MSCE  from  the  University  of  Maine.  He  has 
written  for  the  Journal  of  the  American  Water 


Works  Association  and  belongs  to  a  number  of 
technical  associations. 

Dr.  Wayne  Turnblom  is  a  market  intelli- 
gence associate  at  Eastman  Kodak,  Rochester, 

NY. 


1969 


Reunion 


September  22,  1984 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donald  Esson  a  son, 
James  William,  on  June  2,  1983.  .  .  .to  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  Paul  Shea  their  first  child,  Patrick 
Thomas,  on  July  27,  1983.  Shea,  who  has  a 
master's  and  a  PhD  from  URI,  is  a  division 
engineer  for  Du  Pont  in  Victoria,  TX. 

Maj .  Warren  Anderson  is  command  control 
specialist  at  Hickam  AFB,  Hawaii. 

John  Gavitt,  who  just  returned  from  a  long 


business  trip  to  Japan,  says,  "Will  be  heading 
for  Italy  next." 

Alexander  Malcolm  has  been  promoted  to 
vice  president  for  research  and  development  at 
Briox  Technologies,  Worcester.  He  is  responsi- 
ble for  technical  resources,  new  product  devel- 
opment, joint  ventures,  licensing  and  acquisi- 
tions. 

Al  Pauly  is  a  senior  research  engineer  at 
Michelin  America's  R&D  Corp.,  Greenville, 
SC. 

John  Poblocki  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  real-estate  acquisitions  at  Mutual  Bene- 
fit Financial  Service  Company,  Providence,  RI. 
His  duties  include  the  formation  of  joint  venture 
syndication  and  the  acquisition  of  real  estate  for 
investment  and  syndication  product.  Prior  to 
joining  the  firm  in  January  1983,  he  was  execu- 
tive vice  president  of  Kates  Properties.  He  has  a 
master  of  arts  degree  in  community  planning 
from  the  University  of  Rhode  Island. 

Last  year,  Robert  Reidy  joined  Nelson- 
Scribner  Associates,  Norwood,  MA,  a  manu- 
facturer's representative  firm  headed  by  Stu 
Nelson,  '66. 

James  Rossi,  a  project  engineer  with  Stone 
&  Webster,  was  co-author  of  "Combined  Cycle 
Coal  Gasification:  Options  for  Power  Plants," 
which  appeared  in  the  February  issue  of  Power 
Engineering.  At  Stone  &  Webster  he  is  respon- 
sible for  technical  and  administrative  supervi- 
sion of  synthetic  fuel  projects.  Also,  he  has 
supervised  power  generation  projects  for  the 
firm.  Previously,  he  was  associated  with  Gen- 
eral Dynamics,  Quincy  Division,  and  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft. 

John  Simpson  is  now  with  the  Naval  Coastal 
Systems  Center,  Panama  City  Beach,  FL, 
where  he  does  R&D  of  life  support  equipment 
and  systems  for  the  U.S.  Navy. 

John  Starsiak  serves  as  assistant  patent 
examiner  at  the  U.S.  Patent  and  Trademark 
Office  in  Arlington,  VA. 

Martin  Surabian  is  currently  a  project  engi- 
neering manager  with  Bechtel  Power  Corpora- 
tion. He  says,  "I  have  a  baby  daughter,  Karen 
Talin." 

B.  Lee  Tuttle,  an  assistant  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  GMI  Engineering  & 
Management  Institute,  wrote  "The  Emerging 
Role  of  Thermal  Analysis  in  Aluminum 
Foundry  Process  Control"  for  the  December 
issue  of  Light  Metal  Age  magazine. 


1970 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Roger  Henze  a  son, 
Kevin  Andrew,  on  July  8,  1983. 

Dr.  Maria  Alio  is  now  assistant  professor  of 
surgery  and  director  of  surgical  intensive  care  at 
Johns  Hopkins  Medical  Institutions,  Baltimore, 
MD. 

Garreth  Cooke  works  as  a  design  engineer 
for  GE  in  Wilmington,  MA. 

Dr.  Robert  Markot  is  on  the  technical  staff 
at  Automation  Technology  Products  in  Camp- 
bell, CA. 


1971 


Barry  Belanger  is  currently  a  senior  system 
design  engineer  at  GE's  medical  systems  group 


AUGUST  1984       41 


Lt.  Col.  Poplawski — 
Still  Flving  High 

If  Henry  Poplar  life  were  made 

into  a  movie,  no  one  would  believe  ii.  He 
is  now  a  retired  lieutenant  colonel  in  the 
I  SAP  But.  during  World  War  II  and  the 
Korean  conflict.  Poplawski  flew  high. 

Take  that  time  back  in  "42.  when  his 
mission  was  to  fl>  General  "Vinegar  Joe" 
Stilwell  across  Africa  to  India  and  China, 
w  here  he  was  to  take  command  of  Allied 
ground  forces  in  the  China-Burma-India 
theater. 

"Stilwell  wanted  an  air  view  of  Jerusa- 
lem, so  we  flew  ground  contact  with  a 
300-ft.  ceiling  up  a  mountain  road  to  the 
city"  sa>s  Poplawski.  "When  the  general 
thanked  me  for  the  impressive  view.  I 
didn't  tell  him  we'd  been  at  stalling  speed 
all  the  wa . 

How  did  an  aspiring  engineer  (he  spent 
only  one  year  at  WPI)  end  up  chauffeuring 
"Vinegar  Joe?"    Poplawsk: 
couldn't  afford  to  go  back  to  Tech  sopho- 
more year  because  of  the  Great  Depres- 


sion, so  I  joined  the  Air  Corps." 

In  1941.  he  was  a  civilian  pilot  helping 
Pan  American  Airways  set  up  a  trans- 
Africa.  Middle  East.  India  route  to  China. 
On  Dec.  7.  he  was  asleep  in  an  RAF  billet. 
"when  my  batman  woke  me  up  saying. 
"You're  in  it  now.  Yank.'" 

Soon  after  the  Stilwell  mission,  he  took 
a  job  as  test  pilot  at  Glenn  L.  Martin  Co. 
in  Baltimore.  MD.  The  firm  had  the  Air 
Corps  cancel  his  recent  induction.  ""I 
believe  I  was  the  only  first  lieutenant 
reserve  officer  not  recalled  to  dutv  during 
World  War  II." 

In  1948.  he  received  his  BS  in  aeronau- 
tics from  the  University  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. As  a  captain  during  the  Korean 
conflict,  he  helped  set  up  the  USAF 
Guided  Missile  School  at  Lowry  AFB. 
Denver.  CO.  In  1966.  he  retired  from  the 
Air  Force  follow  ing  aerospace  intelligence 
assignments.  In  1977.  he  retired  from  the 
civil  service. 

Currently.  Poplawski  and  his  wife. 
Clayirice.  travel  on  space-available  mili- 
tary flights.  ""Flying."  he  says,  "will 
alwavs  be  in  mv  blood." 


Henry  Poplawski  at  his  45th  reunion 
in  June. 


He  is  working  on  his  PhD  in 
biophysics  at  the  Medical  College  of  Wbcon- 


serves  as 

for  GE  in  Orlando.  FL.  He 
and  his  wife,  Patricia,  have  two  cuihhen  and 
reside  in  Longwood. 

is  asrfttat  superintendent  of 
Stone  A  Webster  in  Ship- 
pingpon.  PA 

Coppis  no*  vice  president  of  nas- 
al Quabbin  Wire  A  Cable  Co.. 
Ware,  MA.  He  awl  his  wife,  Maty  Jane,  and 
son.  Tan.  3.  live  in  Amherst. 

Daniel  Donahue  holds  the  post  of  senior 
'f""'  at  Green  111  i  unit  mil  in  Somervilk. 
MA.  He  has  an  MS  from  Tufts. 

Dr.  Baljit  Gambhhr,  a  senior  supervisor  for 
Shell  ■  Houston.  TX.  has  a  PhD  from  WPI 
Jack  Ciiin  hiihl   is  a  business  manager  for 
AcetK  Acid  Menthol  for  the  Monsanto  Indus- 
trial  Chemicals  Company  in  St.  Louis. 

Larry  Hyuna  teaches  service  respresenta- 
tjvcs  new  product  development  hi  Dow  s  con- 
sumerpioductsdepanrnent.  His  wife.  Ann.  has 
a  BA  front  the  University  of  Michigan  and 
works  for  Dow  as  a  legal  abstractor. 

now  holds  the  post  of  vice 
of  finance  at  Northern  Telecom  Inc. 
In  October,  he.  his  wife.  M— rru .  and  two 
children  moved  from  Toronto  to  Nashville .  TN. 

unnngcrof  engineering  at  Doron  in  Bingham- 
lon.NY.  He  started  with  the  firm  in  1973  Pre 
viousfy.  he  was  project  enginerr.  senior  sy  s- 

'-:  -•'-"-  ' 
i  now  a 

for  soar  photovoltaic  power  systems  RAD  at 
Sun i  Arabian  National  Center  for  Science  and 
Technology  in  Riyadh.  Saudi  Arabia . 

Fran  Scricco, 
for  GE's  \ideo  products,  was  a  speaker  at  a 


John   Sperandio  is   temporarily   with  the 
Veroab  School  in  Malta. 
Michael  ZarriDi  continues  as  vice  president 

and  district  head  of  Manufacturers  Hanover 
Trust  in  New  York  City.  He  and  Diane  have 
two  children  and  reside  in  Cos  Cob.  CT. 


1972 


1973 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joseph  Harkins.  Jr.  a 
son.  David  Edward,  on  November  5.  1983. 
David  joins  sister  Kimberty.  7.  and  Joseph  ID. 
3.  .  .  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Neil  Herring  their  sec- 
ond child.  Amelia,  in  July  of  1983.  Last  sum- 
Neil  began  a  new  job  as  director  of  plan- 
and  development  with  Damon  Corp.. 
Heights.  MV  He  is  responsible  for 
corporate  acquisitions  and  new  projects  for  the 
Medical  Services  Group. 

Currently.  Charles  Bacon  serves  as  senior 
educational  technologist  for  Data  General  in 
Westboro.  MA.  He  and  his  wife.  Nancy,  reside 


Dr. 


is  in  private  practice  of 
Northeastern  Nephrology  Asso- 


Arthur  Geetersloh  holds  the  post  of  presi- 
at  New  England  Forest  Products  Inc.. 
Greenville.  ME 

Dr.  VYilham  Goodhue  is  research  scientist 
for  dun  film  technology  at  LTRC  in  East  Hart- 
ford. CT 

Rae  Johnson  is  now  manager  of  engineering 
and   manufacturing    for   PA    Industries   in 
CT 
Shawver  serves  as  principal  < 
at  WSSC.  Laurel.  MD.  This  year  he  will  j 
ate  from  the  University  of  Maryland  Law 
School. 

Joe  Sum  huh  now  leaches  in  the  Forest  Hill 
school  district.  Cincinnati.  OH. 


MARRIED:  Dean  Bertoldi  and  Knstine 
Ciambriello  in  Trumbull.  CT.  on  October  21. 
1983.  She  graduated  from  Paier  Art  School  and 
is  assistant  an  director  at  Phoenix  Mutual  Life 
Insurance.  Hartford.  He  also  attended  Paier  and 
Clark  University  and  is  with  Feathers  Design. 
Rowayton. 

BORN:  to  Kathleen  and  Timothy  Jurzynski 
their  first  child.  Thomas  Edward,  on  August 
27.  1983.  Tim  is  a  quality  control  manager  at 
Naugatuck  Glass  Company.  The  family  resides 
in  Seymour.  CT.  .  .  .to  Lynn  and  John  Luikey 
their  first  child,  a  son.  Justin  Knight,  on  Sep- 
tember 28.  1983.  ..  to  Bruce  and  Allison 
Huse  Nunn  their  third  child.  April  Anne,  on 
February  7.  1983.  Brother  Willy  is  7  and  sister 
Heathemearly  6. 

Capt  David  Bedard,  who  is  with  the  IS. 
Army's  Redstone  arsenal  in  Alabama,  is  work- 
ing for  his  master's  degree. 

Paul  Brown  works  as  a  facilities  engineer  for 
DEC  in  Westminster.  MA.  Last  year,  he 
received  his  MBA  from  WPI 

Steven  Buba  is  a  sales  representative  for 
United  Restaurant  Equipment  Co..  North 
Smithfield.  RI 

Robert  DiGennaro  holds  the  post  of  engi- 
neering supervisor  at  GTE  Spacenet  in 
McLean.  VA. 

Rick  Garaghano  is  a  senior  project  engineer 
at  Dynacbem  Corp. .  Irvine.  CA. 

Dr.  John  Goulet  has  been  promoted  to  asso- 
ciate professor  at  Thomas  College  in  Maine. 
Before  joining  Thomas  in  1983.  he  had  been  an 
assistant  professor  at  Colby  College  since  1 976. 
With  a  PhD  from  RPL  he  is  involved  with  com- 
puter science  and  mathematics. 

John  Homfco  serves  as  a  senior  development 
engineer  at  Pencept  Inc.  in  Waltham,  MA. 

Currently.  Terrence  Luddy  works  as  a  spe- 


_ 


42       WPI  JOURNAL 


Reunion  '84:  The  Class  of 1944  members 


cial  agent  for  the  FBI  in  New  Haven.  CT  He 
has  a  JD  from  Western  New  England  College 
School  of  Law.  Springfield.  MA. 

Donald  Moquin  is  a  senior  structural  engi- 
neer at  Canam  Steel  Corp.,  Needham,  MA. 

David  Pouliot  is  a  principal  engineer  for 
Lockheed  Electronics. 

Richard  Sargent  is  a  senior  project  engineer 
with  Allis-ChalmersCorp..  Cambridge.  MA. 

Gary  Smolen  is  employed  as  an  associate 
engineer  by  Northeast  Utilities  in  Hartford.  CT. 

John  Taylor  now  works  for  Integrated  Indus- 
trial Systems  in  Wallingford.  CT. 


1974 


Reunion 


September  22,  1984 


BORN:  to  Charles  and  Anne  Mc  Part  land 
Dodd,  '75,  their  second  daughter.  Laura,  last 
December.  Emily  is  now  three.  .  .  to  Diane 
and  Michael  Kozakiewicz  a  son.  Brian,  on 
May  22.  1983. 

Gary  Bellinger  is  a  senior  chemical  engineer 
at  Waters  Associates  in  Milford,  MA. 

Last  winter,  performer  Steve  Dacri  appeared 
at  the  Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood.  This  sum- 
mer he  is  slated  to  appear  in  Dallas  and  Boston, 
and  next  fall  in  New  York  and  Las  Vegas. 

James  Briggs  works  as  design  manager  at 
Naval  Facilities  Engineering  Command.  Phila- 
delphia. He  is  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  Connecticut. 

In  March.  Gene  Dejackome  ran  unopposed 
for  a  third  term  as  selectman  in  Orange.  MA. 
Currently,  he  is  manufacturing  supervisor  at 
Monsanto  in  Springfield.  He  belongs  to  the 
Kiwanis  and  the  Knights  of  Columbus 

Lawrence  Hayden  is  now  a  senior  software 
programmer  at  Pfizer  Co..  Groton.  CT.  He  is 
also  an  instructor  of  data  processing  and  a  com- 
puter programmer  at  Connecticut  College  and 
Thames  Valley  Regional  Technical  College 

Gerald  Masi  recently  became  vice  president 


of  Westpac  Shelter  Corp..  Santa  Barbara.  CA 

William  Murwin  is  a  senior  data  communi- 
cations specialist  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester. 

Kevin  Naughton  works  for  Main  Engineer- 
ing in  Boston. 

Craig  Tyler  continues  as  a  military  sales 
engineer  for  Times  Fiber  Communications. 
Wallingford.  CT. 

Gary  Velozo  holds  the  post  of  general  super- 
\  isor  at  Polaroid  Corp..  Norwood.  MA. 

David  Washburn  serves  as  an  en\ia>nmen- 
tal  engineer  for  the  U.S.  Fish  and  Wildlife 
Sen  ice  in  Newton.  MA. 


1975 


MARRIED:  Richard  Bloom  and  Linda  Ann 
Bergantim  in  Providence.  RI.  on  April  8.  1984. 
She  graduated  from  Katharine  Gibbs.  attended 
Providence  College  and  is  manager  of  word 
processing  at  Fleet  National  Bank  in  Preni- 
dence.  He  is  president  of  Independent  Glass 
Co. 

Mark  Antonio  recently  received  his  PhD  in 
chemistry  from  Michigan  State  University,  East 
Lansing.  He  also  has  an  MS  from  Fairleigh 
Dickinson  University,  Madison.  NJ.  A  chemi- 
cal engineer  with  Sohio  Research  Center. 
Cle\ eland.  OH.  he  belongs  to  the  ACS  and  is 
co-author  of  several  papers  published  in  profes- 
sional journals. 

Erik  Brodin  is  supervisor  of  industrial  engi- 
neering at  General  Motors  in  Norwood,  OH. 

Bradley  Coleman  serves  as  a  senior  process 
engineer  at  Fluor  Engineers  in  Irvine.  CA. 

Charles  Embree  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  the  Northeast  area  field  sen  ice  at  Brown 
Boveri  Electric  in  Middletown.  CT. 

Edward  Greenebaum,  with  two  former  col- 
leagues from  Huth  Engineers,  has  become  a 
partner  in  GMZ  Associates,  an  engineering 
firm  in  Lancaster.  PA.  The  three  believe  their 
firm  is  unique  because  it  combines  structural 
and    civil    engineering    with    landscaping 


Greenebaum  has  worked  as  a  structural  engi- 
neer, specializing  in  building  and  bridge  design 
He  also  has  a  geography  degree  from  Clark. 

Maureen  and  Fred  Greulich  and  their  baby . 
Lindsey.  reside  in  Endwell.  NY  Fred  is  train- 
ing for  the  position  of  plant  product  manager  at 
Frito-Lay  "s  Kirkwood.  NY.  plant. 

Steven  Harvey  holds  the  post  of  municipal 
bond  analyst  at  Standard  &  Poor's  Corp.,  New 
York  City . 

George  Hill  is  a  senior  sy  stems  programmer 
far  Access  Technology  in  South  Natick.  MA. 

Christopher  Keenan  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
Ewon  Chemical  Co.  in  Linden.  NJ.  He.  his 
wife.  Donna,  and  their  child  live  in  Clinton. 

Robert  Murray  works  as  a  senior  mechani- 
cal design  and  development  engineer  for  Ray- 
theon in  Sudbury.  MA 

Capt.  Michael  Parker  (USA)  has  assumed 
command  of  Company  B.  123rd  Maintenance 
Battalion.  1st  Armored  Division.  Fuerth.  West 
Germans.  Previously  he  was  at  Fort  Hood. 
TX. 

Capt.  Douglas  Sargent  has  been  decorated 
with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Commendation  Medal 
at  Thule  Air  Base  in  Greenland.  He  serves  as 
chief  of  programs  and  engineering  with  the 
1012th  Air  Base  Group. 

Mike  White  continues  as  a  research  metal- 
lurgist for  Pfizer  in  Wallingford.  CT.  He 
resides  in  Hamden. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Loretta  Deming  and  Robert 
Goeller  III  on  December  31,  1983.  in  Glaston- 
bury. CT.  A  project  engineer  at  Clairol  Appli- 
ances. Stamford.  CT.  she  has  an  MSME  from 
MIT.  Goeller  graduated  from  St.  Lawrence 
University  and  serves  as  a  senior  project  man- 
ager at  Hatzel  and  Buehler  Inc..  Stam- 
ford. .  .  Charles  Putnam  to  Andrea  Olsen  in 
Connecticut  on  February  4.  1984.  A  registered 
nurse  at  St.  Joseph  Hospital.  Stamford.  Andrea 
graduated  from  Southern  Connecticut  State 
College.  Charles  is  a  senior  engineer  with 
Dav  is  and  Geek  in  Danbury . 

BORN:  to  Ellen  and  Michael  Menesale  a 
daughter.  Megan  Twin  daughters.  Ann  and 
Sara,  are  now  three.  After  seven  years  with 
U.S.  Steel.  Michael  is  now  a  technical  manager 
with  Loos  &  Co.  Inc..  Pomfret.  CT.  The  firm 
is  involved  with  aircraft  cable  and  wire  rope. 

David  Altieri  writes:  "After  visiting  Seoul. 
Korea,  on  an  assignment  for  Honeywell.  I  vis- 
ited Japan  and  Hawaii  " 

Stephen  Anstey  is  a  field  engineer  for  GE 
Ordnance  Systems.  Cape  Canaveral.  FL. 

David  Berry  is  currently  an  engineering  stu- 
dent at  Cape  Cod  Community  College  in 
Barnstable.  MA 

Formerly  with  The  Call  circulation  depart- 
ment. Richard  Chamberlin  was  recently 
named  a  patrolman  with  the  Woonsocket.  RI. 
police  department  Besides  WPI.  he  attended 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island. 

No  longer  with  Allan  H  Swanson  Inc.. 
Robert  Cormier  and  an  associate  hav  e  started 
a  new  firm.  CttOCO  &  Cormier  Inc..  civil  engi- 
neers and  land  surveyors,  in  Nashua.  NH 

JeffGravdahl  is  treasurer  of  A.  Moc  ft  On 
Inc..  Philadelphia 

Constance  Kuzmier  is  a  management  con- 
sultant with  Rath  &  Strone.  Lexington,  MA 


AUGUST  HS4       -H 


Reunion  84:  Al  Swetz,  '59,  with  Marlene  and  Robert  Bober,  '59. 


Craig  Plourde  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Connecticut  Bank  and  Trust  Com- 
pany, Hartford,  CT.  He  joined  the  bank  in  1976 
as  a  senior  programmer  and  was  later  made  a 
senior  systems  engineer.  In  1981,  he  was 
appointed  teleprocessing  project  leader,  and 
more  recently  he  became  manager  of  tele- 
processing software  support. 

Robert  Winter  is  district  manager  for  Ray- 
mond International  Builders  in  Westville,  NJ. 


1977 


BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Christopher  Baker 
their  first  child,  Rachel  Ann,  on  November  20, 
1983.  .  .  .to  Robert  and  Mary  Hainsworth 
Hickey  their  second  child,  Alice  Frances,  on 
January  30,  1984.  Robert  is  a  project  officer  in 
the  Economic  Development  Administration. 
Mary  is  on  leave  of  absence  from  ARCO 
Chemical,  where  she  is  employed  as  a  develop- 
ment engineer. 

Bruce  Baran,  who  recently  received  his  PhD 
in  physics  from  Northeastern,  currently  works 
for  Adaptive  Optics  Associates  in  Cambridge, 
MA.  His  wife,  Carol  Sigel  Baran,  is  a  systems 
engineer  for  Higher  Order  in  Cambridge. 

Richard  Blauvelt  now  works  as  regional 
sales  manager  for  the  Ron  Beckett  Agency  in 
Lynn,  MA.  Last  November,  he  resigned  from 
True  Trace  in  Whittier,  CA,  to  return  to  New 
England. 

David  Bolin  works  for  Hoffman-LaRoche, 
Nutley,  NJ. 

James  Buffi  has  a  new  post  as  marketing 
engineer  with  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro, 


MA.  Last  year,  he  received  his  MBA  from  Bry- 
ant College  in  Smith  field,  RI. 

Marc  Gantman,  who  received  his  MBA 
from  Wharton  in  1982,  is  currently  a  manage- 
ment consultant  with  the  BDM  Corporation  in 
McLean,  VA. 

Domenico  Grasso  is  in  the  PhD  program  in 
environmental  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Michigan.  His  wife,  Patty,  is  a  pediatric  resi- 
dent at  the  university's  Mott  Children's  Hospi- 
tal. 

Tom  Grautski  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
materials  control  at  Estee  Lauder  in  Melville, 
NY.  He  and  his  wife,  Andrea,  reside  in 
Ronkonkoma. 

Jon  Hammarstrom  is  director  of  quality 
assurance,  U.S.  operations,  for  Rodime  Inc.  in 
Boca  Raton,  FL. 

Kevin  Healey  works  for  Carlson  Group  Inc. 
in  Cochituate,  MA.  He  and  Christine  and  their 
two  children  reside  in  Bridgewater. 

Mark  Jankins  is  now  an  assistant  professor 
at  the  College  of  Charleston  (SC).  Last  year,  he 
received  his  PhD  from  the  University  of  Mary- 
land. 

Roger  Lemos  serves  as  a  consulting  engineer 
for  Energy  Planning  and  Management, 
Framingham,  MA. 

Richard  Mazmanian  recently  joined  Mott 
Associates  in  Towson,  MD. 

Stuart  Merrell  is  employed  as  a  design  and 
estimating  engineer  at  Reisner  Metals  in  South 
Gate,  CA. 

Joseph  Miceli  works  as  a  research  scientist  at 
Kodak  in  Rochester,  NY.  He  received  his  PhD 
in  optics  from  the  University  of  Rochester  last 
year. 

Paul  Murphy,  a  medical  student  at  Tufts 


College  of  Medicine,  recently  took  courses  in 
physical  diagnostic  medicine  at  Falmouth  (MA) 
Hospital. 

In  January,  John  Osowski  took  over  a  new 
post  as  process  engineer  at  Mobil's  manufactur- 
ing facility  in  Jacksonville,  IL. 

Recently,  Mark  Popham  was  named  a  proj- 
ect engineer  in  the  environmental  division  of 
Anderson-Nichols  &  Co.,  Clinton,  MA.  A  reg- 
istered sanitarian,  he  is  on  the  board  of  directors 
of  Millers  River  Watershed  Council.  Mark,  his 
wife,  Brenda,  and  two  children,  Andrew,  3, 
and  Sarah,  1 ,  reside  in  Orange. 

Mark  Puputti  is  in  charge  of  mechanical 
design  for  new  products  at  Gilbert  Engineering, 
Phoenix,  AZ.  He  and  his  wife,  Brenda  Bou- 
cher-Puputti,  '80,  reside  in  Mesa. 

Marc  Richard  is  a  senior  engineer  with 
Linkabit  Inc.  in  Lexington,  MA.  He  has  an 
MSEE  from  MIT. 

Rick  Seidnitzer  works  for  Donald  J.  Pi  Ion  in 
Springfield,  MA. 

Fred  Sowa  is  a  packaging  machinery  man- 
ager with  Chesebrough-Ponds  in  Clinton,  CT. 

Christin  Walker,  who  serves  as  an  applica- 
tion engineer  for  GE  in  Pittsfield,  MA,  has  an 
MSMEfromRPI. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Bryce  Granger  to  Rosemary 
McKinley  on  August  27,  1983,  in  Worcester 
.  .  .  .John  Kuchachik  and  Cheryl  Peltier  on 
June  11,  1983.  Cheryl,  executive  secretary  to 
the  vice  president  of  Wintex  Inc.,  Waltham,  is  a 
Becker  graduate.  John  has  a  new  job  as  data 
center  facilities  manager  at  Fidelity  Invest- 
ments in  Boston.  The  Kuchachiks  reside  in 
Ashland. 

BORN:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  DiBiasi  a  son, 
John  Edward,  on  January  9,  1984.  .  .  .to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  David  Fisher  a  daughter,  Katherine 
Irene,  on  October  6,  1983.  .  .  .to  William  and 
Patricia  Tracy  Walton  a  son,  William  Tracy, 
on  June  29,  1983. 

John  Anderson  serves  as  a  senior  software 
engineer  at  Technicare  Corp.  in  Solon,  OH. 

Jerry  Bujaucius  is  now  a  senior  production 
engineer  (flight  controls  division)  for  Chandler 
Evans  of  West  Hartford,  CT.  He  continues  as 
professor  of  manufacturing  engineering  tech- 
nology at  Hartford  State  Technical  College. 

William  Gagne  is  an  operations  specialist  for 
Metcalf  &  Eddy  in  Boston.  He  has  an  MSCE 
from  WPI. 

In  January,  Gilberto  Gonzalez  was  named 
quality  assurance  engineer  for  Goodyear  in 
Valencia,  Venezuela.  Previously,  he  had  been  a 
project  engineer  for  Colgate-Palmolive. 

Peter  Hayden  holds  the  post  of  national 
accounts  sales  manager  for  AT&T  in  Colum- 
bus, OH. 

Daniel  Jackson  is  a  graduate  student  and 
research  assistant  in  the  EE  department  at  the 
University  of  Illinois  in  Urbana. 

August  Jasminski  works  as  a  project  engi- 
neer for  Gilbane  Building  Co.  in  Providence, 
RI. 

Lamin  Jobe  is  principal  engineer  for  the 
Department  of  Water  Resources  in  Banjul,  the 
Gambia.  He  received  an  MS  from  Cornell  in 
1982. 

Dennis  Kelly  is  a  senior  mechanical  engineer 
at  Bechtel,  Gaithersburg,  MD. 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


Making  a  Pitch 
For  the  Majors 


"Aspiring  pitchers  are  like  actors,"  says 
Paul  Josephson,  '77  CE.  "They  have  to  be 
seen  at  the  right  time  by  the  right  people  in 
order  to  get  ahead." 

Josephson,  who  is  with  the  Atlanta 
Braves'  farm  club  this  year,  and  who  was 
previously  with  Oakland,  Detroit  and 
Montreal  clubs,  enjoys  being  in  a  highly 
competitive  field.  He  likes  the  pressure. 

"I'm  a  short-relief  pitcher,"  he  explains. 
"They  call  me  in  late  in  the  game  because 
I  usually  have  good  control  in  tough  situa- 
tions." 

During  the  five-month  season, 
Josephson  warms  up  or  pitches  almost 
every  day.  "I  usually  play  in  50  to  60  out 
of  140  games,"  he  says.  "The  team  stays 
in  motels  paid  for  by  the  club  during 
spring  training,  but  when  the  season  starts, 
we  pay  for  our  own  lodging  and  food  when 
not  on  the  road.  We  travel  in  chartered 
buses  and  don't  usually  make  overnight 
stops.  In  the  Southern  League,  that  can 
mean  a  16-hour  bus  trip  one  way!"  Occa- 
sionally, if  the  distance  is  too  great,  or  if 
games  are  scheduled  too  close  together, 
the  team  flies. 

Having  played  in  different  parts  of  the 
U.S.,  Josephson  says  he  prefers  the  New 
England  climate  because  of  the  change  of 
seasons.  (He's  a  resident  of  Shrewsbury, 
MA.)  "It's  too  hot  in  Florida,"  he  says, 
"particularly  in  the  summer."  One  thing  he 
does  like  about  the  South  is  southern  cook- 


Pouring  it  on 

ing.  "It's  especially  good  in  Memphis  and 
Phoenix." 

After  the  season  is  over,  Josephson  goes 
back  to  Shrewsbury  and  works  for  Drake 
Associates,  a  firm  concerned  with  survey- 
ing and  construction.  "I  like  to  keep  my 
hand  in  engineering."  In  fact,  he's  looking 
into  the  possibility  of  taking  an  MBA  or 


computer  correspondence  course,  so  he 
can  study  even  when  he's  on  the  road. 

Meanwhile,  he  pitches  between  March 
and  September.  "I'm  not  getting  rich,"  he 
admits.  But  there's  always  the  chance  that 
the  right  person  will  see  him  on  the  right 
day  and  he'll  get  the  chance  to  live  his 
dream— playing  major  league  baseball. 


Michele  Mass  is  vice  president  of  I.  Mass  & 
Sons  in  New  York  City. 

Kevin  O'Donnell  works  as  a  research  scien- 
tist for  Kodak  Research  Labs,  Rochester,  NY. 
Last  year,  he  received  his  PhD  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Rochester. 

Robert  Rossier  is  an  environmental  systems 
engineer  at  Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  CT.  He 
holds  an  MS  in  ocean  engineering  from  URI. 

John  Roumas  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  RCA  in  Burlington,  MA. 

Clifford  Schulze  is  in  contrac'  sales  at  Grin- 
nell  Fire  Protection,  Canton,  MA.  He  and  his 
wife,  Sharon,  '80,  have  two  children  and 
reside  in  Bridgewater. 

Gary  Sowyrda  is  a  supervisor  with  Exxon 
Co.  USA  in  Tyler,  TX. 

Doreen  Woodman  Taylor  works  as  a  techni- 
cal marketing  representative  at  Hewlett-Pack- 
ard in  Waltham,  Ma. 

Stephen  Tourigny  is  a  senior  process  devel- 
opment engineer  at  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester. 

Craig  Vickery  currently  works  as  instrumen- 
tation development  engineer  in  the  electro- 
optics  group  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  CT. 

Ricardo  Wever  writes,  "Regards  from 
Aruba."  Currently,  he  is  a  control  application 
engineer  for  Lago  Oil  &  Transport  Co.,  in 
Sanicolas. 


Wayne  Wnuck,  who  is  with  Consultants  & 
Designers,  East  Hartford,  CT,  is  a  consulting 
engineer  for  UTC's  power  systems  division  in 
South  Windsor. 


1979 


Reunion 


September  22, 1984 


MARRIED:  Don  Griglack  and  Sherylann 
Koze!  in  Danbury,  CT,  in  January  of  1983. 
Sherylann,  a  teacher,  is  a  graduate  of  Western 
Connecticut  State  College.  The  couple  resides 
in  New  Orleans.  .  .  Kevin  Hughes  and  Patri- 
cia Ferron  in  Worcester  on  October  1,  1983. 
Patricia  graduated  from  Becker  and  is  a  dental 
assistant.  Kevin  serves  as  a  systems  program- 
mer for  CVS  in  Woonsocket. 

BORN:  to  Cheryl  and  Daniel  Hurst  a  son, 
Jeffrey  Daniel,  on  February  2,  1984.  Dan  has 
transferred  to  the  engineering  division  at 
Kodak. 

John  Bourassa  now  works  for  United  Indus- 
trial/AAI  Corp./AAI  Engineering  Inc. 

Iginio  Capaldo  is  employed  by  Mevenca  in 
Venezuela. 

Recently,  Vance  Carter  was  reassigned  to 
Kamishaly,  Syria,  with  Schlumberger  Overseas 


S.A.  Previously,  he  was  located  in  Turkey. 

Gary  Doyle  serves  as  a  senior  associate  engi- 
neer at  IBM  in  Essex  Junction,  VT. 

Fred  Fisher  is  an  engineer  I  for  DEC  in 
Maynard,  MA.  He  has  an  MSCS  from  UConn. 

Stephen  Fisk  is  a  mechanical  coordinator 
and  field  engineer  for  Daniel  O'Connell's  Sons 
in  Holyoke,  MA. 

Javier  Frances  is  the  self-employed  presi- 
dent of  a  firm  in  San  Salvador,  El  Salvador. 

John  Grimwade  works  as  a  field  engineer 
for  Babcock  &  Wilcox  in  Chicago. 

Christopher  Harkins  is  a  senior  develop- 
ment engineer  for  Kodak  in  Rochester,  NY.  He 
and  his  wife,  Patricia,  have  two  children  and 
live  in  Hilton. 

Mohammad-Hoghooghi  is  a  consulting 
engineer  and  project  director  with  Iran  Genera- 
tion and  Transmission  Company  in  Tehran. 

Kilmer  Joyce  works  for  Harris  Graphics  in 
Dover,  NH. 

Daniel  Kennefick  is  employed  as  a  mainte- 
nance engineer  at  Du  Pont  in  Louisville,  KY. 

Lawrence  Leduc  works  as  a  process  control 
supervisor  for  Georgia-Pacific  in  Painesville, 
OH. 

Veronique  Leproux  is  a  research  engineer 
with  Rhone-Poulens  Recherches  in  Antony, 
France. 

Kathleen  McKeon  is  a  graduate  assistant  in 


AUGUST  1984       45 


the  math  department  at  Michigan  State  Univer- 
sity in  East  Lansing.  She  received  her  MSMA 
fromMSUin  1981. 

Currently,  Peter  Nelson  serves  as  manager 
of  information  systems  for  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Revenue  in  Cambridge,  MA. 
He  received  his  master's  in  regional  planning 
from  UMass  in  1982. 

Dick  Perry  was  supervisor  of  the  Torrington 
Co.  production  team  that  took  handmade  proto- 
types of  the  Atari  Trak-Ball  unit  to  high-volume 
production,  making  the  units  available  for  the 
year-end  holiday  selling  season.  Dick  is  with 
Torrington's  new  precision  components  divi- 
sion. 

Ronald  Salett  serves  as  a  principal  engineer 
for  DEC  in  Maynard,  MA.  He  and  Donna  have 
two  children  and  live  in  Framingham. 

Dave  and  Joyce  Poulton  Sheridan  moved 
back  to  the  USA  in  June  of  '83  following  three 
years  in  Italy.  Dave  resigned  his  Army  commis- 
sion and  now  works  for  Isotronics  Inc.,  New 
Bedford,  MA.  He  says  he  does  "trouble-shoot- 
ing" and  works  with  R&D  and  engineering  in 
the  production  of  hermetic  hybrid  circuit  pack- 
ages. Joyce  is  again  a  weapons  system  analyst 
for  Vitro  Corporation  in  Newport,  RI. 

George  Tompsett  is  a  project  manufacturing 
engineer  for  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor 
Locks,  CT. 

Kathy  Fitzgerald  Warburton  works  as  a 
systems  engineer  for  Motorola  in  Englewood, 
CO. 

Allen  Zubatkin  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
materials  (quality  assurance)  at  Gould  in 
Andover,  MA. 


1980 


MARRIED:  Thomas  Lewis  to  Cynthia  Cope- 
land  in  Litchfield,  CT,  on  December  23,  1983. 
Cynthia  graduated  from  Smith  College  and  is 
editor  of  a  children's  magazine  for  Quinn  Pub- 
lishing, Springfield,  MA.  Tom  has  been  study- 
ing for  his  PhD  in  chemistry  at  MIT.  .  .  . 
Robert  Oriol  to  Christa  Lauridsen  in 
Greenwich,  CT,  on  March  31,  1984.  Christa 
graduated  from  Middlebury  College  and  is  a 
senior  software  consultant  for  Manufacturer's 
Business  Systems,  Worcester.  Robert  is  a  proj- 
ect leader  at  Boston  Systems  Office.  .  .  . 
Michael  Parulis  and  Margaret  Newcomb, 
'82,  on  October  30,  1983,  in  Auburn,  MA. 
Margaret  is  a  cost  engineer  for  Stone  &  Web- 
ster's Millstone  III  nuclear  power  plant  in 
Waterford,  and  Michael  works  for  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  CT 
.  .  .  .John  Wilbur  and  Deborah  Ivanoski  in 
Quincy,  MA.  She  graduated  from  Laboure 
Junior  College  and  is  on  the  nursing  staff  at 
Brockton  Hospital.  He  is  a  planning  supervisor 
forGE  in  Lynn. 

John  Apostolou  serves  as  sales  and  develop- 
ment representative  for  Du  Pont  in  Nashville, 
TN. 

Allison  Avery  works  as  a  support  engineer 
for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Verne  Backus  is  a  process-product  engineer 
for  Sprague  Electric  in  Barre,  VT 

Louis  Bernasconi  is  vice  president  of  Auto- 
matic Test  Equipment  Service,  Nashua,  NH. 

Robert  Blake,  who  works  as  a  market 
research  analyst  for  United  Illuminating  Co., 
New  Haven,  CT,  is  also  studying  for  his  MBA 


Reunion  '84:  Diran  Deranian,  Pete  Dobie  and  Hal  Pierce,  all  '29. 


T      jHfe.   J 

^^^^^^  W 

r— •* 

T 

1 

t      1 

'& 

^ 

m 

JT' 

m£* 

M^^ 

M$  1 1 

Reunion  '84:  Russ  Wiley,  '29,  and  Carl  Carlson,  '29. 


at  the  University  of  New  Haven. 

William  Emmet  II  serves  as  an  analytical 
engineer  at  Norden  Systems,  Norwalk,  CT. 
Last  year,  he  received  his  MS  from  Cornell. 

Gary  Fischer  is  on  the  technical  staff  of 
AT&T  Bell  Labs  in  North  Andover,  MA. 

Richard  Goldman  has  been  named  as  legis- 
lative aide  to  State  Senator  George  Gunther  of 
Stratford,  CT.  In  the  summers  of  1981  and 
1982  he  had  served  the  senator  as  a  research 
assistant. 

Edward  Johnson  is  a  district  sales  engineer 
for  Torrington  Co.,  Indianapolis,  IN. 

Robert  Kennedy  is  a  program  leader  for 
Westinghouse  Electric  in  Orlando,  FL. 

Gregory  Knese  is  purchasing  manager  at 
Henry  Knese  Inc.,  College  Point,  NY. 

Stephen  Lawry,  whose  promotion  to  Cap- 
tain, USAF,  becomes  effective  in  August,  will 
be  moving  to  a  new  assignment  as  AFROTC 
instructor  in  Philadelphia.  Last  year,  he  was 
selected  as  "Outstanding  Company  Grade  Offi- 
cer of  the  Year"  at  the  Air  Force  Weapons  Lab- 
oratory. 

Joseph  LeBlanc  is  scheduled  to  receive  his 
PhD  in  chemical  engineering  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts  in  December. 

Peter  Leonard  works  as  a  design  engineer 
for  KG  Engineering  in  Woonsocket,  RI. 

Karen  Liukkonen  has  been  promoted  to  spe- 
cialist I,  for  investments,  money  market  opera- 
tions, treasury  and  financial  services,  at  John 
Hancock  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  In  her  new 
post,  she  is  responsible  for  daily  short-term 
investment  decisions  and  credit  analysis  of 
investment  alternatives.  She  joined  the  firm  in 
1982  as  a  credit  analyst  in  money  market  opera- 


tions and  has  a  master's  degree  in  finance  from 
Babson. 

Michael  R.  Lombardi  continues  as  an 
assistant  project  engineer  for  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering.  Boston.  He  and  his  wife,  Susan,  a 
graduate  of  Providence  College,  currently 
reside  in  Manorville,  NY. 

Raymond  Lucchetti,  Jr.  has  joined  Digitech 
Industries,  Ridgefield,  CT,  as  a  senior  technical 
sales  specialist.  He  is  responsible  for  support- 
ing all  international  distributors  and  will  assist 
the  domestic  sales  operations  in  system  sales, 
design  custom  software  packages  and  contrib- 
ute to  new  product  development.  Previously,  he 
was  a  staff  engineer  at  Bunker  Ramo  Informa- 
tion Systems,  banking  terminal  systems. 

Deborah  Luper,  a  development  engineer  for 
Western  Electric,  Allentown  (PA)  works,  was  a 
co-author  of  "Automatic  Plating  of  Bipolar 
Integrated  Circuits,"  which  was  published  in 
the  January  issue  of  Plating  and  Surface  Finish- 
ing. 

William  Mangano  is  a  systems  analyst  at 
State  Mutual  in  Worcester. 

In  May,  Brian  McCarthy  graduated  from 
SUNY-Downstate  Medical  School  in  Brooklyn, 
NY.  He  is  now  with  the  Department  of  Ortho- 
pedic Surgery  at  Albert  Einstein  College  of 
Medicine. 

Matthew  McSherry  works  for  Newport 
News  Industries,  Newport  News,  VA. 

John  Noonan,  a  project  engineer  at  SSV&K 
Consulting  Engineering  in  Stratford,  CT,  is  also 
studying  for  his  MBA  evenings  at  UConn. 

Rosemary  Murphy  O'Brien  is  working  for 
her  MS  in  chemical  engineering  at  Tufts. 

Brenda  Boucher-Puputti  is  a  member  of  the 


46       WPI  JOURNAL 


Reunion  '84:  Carl  Hammarstrom  and  Charlie  Fran;  both  '34. 


technical  staff  at  GTE  Laboratories  in  Ternpe, 
AZ. 

Paolo  Rambelli  is  a  patent  agent  with  Jaco- 
bacci-Casetta  &  Perdni  in  Torino.  Italy. 

Clifford  Read  is  a  product  support  engineer 
at  Foxboro  (MA)  Co. 

Doreen  Sa  Vieira  serves  as  a  microlith- 
ography  applications  engineer  at  Perkin  Elmer, 
Wilton,  CT. 

Keith  Sylvestre  works  for  Northeast  Utili- 
ties, Enfield,  CT. 

No  longer  with  the  Army,  George  Tobin  is 
now  performing  consulting  work  for  project 
managers  at  Semcor  Inc.  in  Farmingdale,  NJ. 
He's  also  been  writing  restaurant  reviews  for 
local  newspapers  and  is  working  for  his  MBA  at 
Monmouth  College. 

Chuong  Vu  is  a  software  designer  for  Micro- 
corn  Inc..  Norwood,  MA. 

James  Warner,  who  holds  an  MSCS  from 
WPI,  has  been  named  vice  president  of  Cortex 
Corp.,  Wellesley,  MA.  He  started  with  the 
company  in  1978  and  later  became  principal 
designer  and  developer  of  application  pack- 
ages. Previously,  he  was  senior  analyst  at 
United  Computing  Systems  and  project  analyst 
at  Honeywell  Information  Systems.  Cortex 
Corp.  develops  software  productivity  tools  for 
users  of  DEC  hardware. 

John  Whiteside  is  a  consulting  engineer  for 
DEC  in  Nashua,  NH.  He  has  a  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Rochester  and  a  BA  from  Brown, 
as  well  as  a  master's  from  WPI. 

Raymond  Yando  teaches  mathematics  at 
Ludlow  (MA)  High  School. 

Elaine  O'Neil  Yarnell  has  been  promoted 
from  new-products  coordinator  to  department 


head  of  packaging  in  the  oxidation  department 
at  Clairol  in  Stamford,  CT. 

Michael  Yevak  serves  as  a  new  product  engi- 
neer at  Texas  Instruments  in  Attleboro,  MA. 


1981 


BORN:  to  Valerie  and  Raymond  Aubert  their 
first  child,  Ryan  Michael,  on  February  23, 
1984.  Raymond  continues  as  a  mechanical 
design  engineer  for  the  transmission  group  at 
GE  Ordnance  Systems  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Alan  Amaral  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua.  NH. 

George  Bernota,  a  field  engineer  with 
Schlumberger  Technical  Services,  Singapore, 
is  now  working  for  the  firm  in  Bombay,  India, 
at  Sanghi  Motors. 

Gary  Brown  serves  as  supervisor  of  manu- 
facturing at  Allied  Corp.,  Hopewell,  VA. 

Randy  Byrne  holds  the  post  of  product  man- 
ager at  Haake-Buchler  in  Saddlebrook,  NJ. 

William  Carlson,  who  received  his  MSEE 
from  Purdue  in  December,  is  now  working  for 
his  PhD. 

Eleanor  Cromwick  serves  as  assistant  engi- 
neer for  Turner  Construction,  Boston. 

Michael  Di  Costanzo  is  currently  with 
Union  Oil  Company's  process  development 
group  working  on  Union's  shale  oil  process.  He 
is  located  in  Fullerton,  CA. 

Phil  Gallagher  continues  as  foreman  at  Gen- 
eral Dynamics-Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  CT. 

Joseph  Gianetti  manages  customer  contact 
for  Commonwealth  Gas  Co.  inSouthboro.  MA. 


Mary  Goodrow  works  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Data  General  Corp..  Milford,  MA. 

Anestis  Halkidis  is  with  Atex  in  Bedford, 
MA. 

Richmond  Harris  serves  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Stride  Rite  Corp.,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Donald  Howard  is  a  project  engineer  for 
Hamilton  Test  Systems  in  Windsor,  CT.  He  and 
Karen  have  one  child  and  live  in  Longmeadow. 

Russell  Ingalls  works  as  a  field  engineer  for 
Westinghouse  at  the  Portsmouth  (NH)  Naval 
Shipyard. 

Robert  Leonard  holds  the  post  of  director  of 
research  at  PA.  Hunt  Chemical  Corp.,  East 
Providence,  RI. 

Joseph  Lino  is  with  Charles  L.  Lino  Associ- 
ates. Clifton  Park,  NY. 

Glen  Martin  is  a  supervisor  at  USCI  in  Bil- 
lerica,  MA. 

Michael  Morang  has  been  promoted  to  se- 
nior systems  analyst  within  the  systems  organi- 
zation at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He  joined 
the  firm  as  a  systems  analyst  in  198 1 . 

Anthony  Napikoski  continues  as  assistant 
engineer  at  United  Illuminating  in  New  Haven, 
CT. 

Joseph  Norman  HI  serves  as  an  account 
executive  with  Merrill  Lynch  Pierce  Fenner  & 
Smith  in  Lawrenceville.  NJ. 

David  Normen  is  employed  as  an  analytical 
engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Farmington, 
CT. 

Robert  Oftring  is  treasurer  of  Oftring  &  Co. 
in  Worcester. 

Judith  Paquette  is  an  analytical  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard  in  Farmington,  CT. 

Rick  Passaro  works  as  a  sales  engineer  for 
Eaton/Cutler-Hammer,  Farmington.  CT.  He 
sells  electrical  and  electronic  motor  controls  in 
Massachusetts  and  Connecticut. 

Marylou  Place  holds  the  post  of  assistant  to 
the  vice  president  of  engineering  at  Ade  Corpo- 
ration, Newton,  MA.  She  resides  in  Cam- 
bridge. 

Stephen  Russo  works  for  Automatix,  Bil- 
lerica,  MA.  He  resides  in  Bedford. 

Joseph  Schomaker  is  a  field  service  engi- 
neer with  Westinghouse  in  Hartford,  CT. 

Robert  Segarra  is  an  industrial  engineer 
with  Chesebrough-Ponds,  Oriskany  Falls,  NY. 

James  Shannon  serves  as  a  field  engineer  at 
Hughes  Aircraft  Co.,  Fullerton,  CA. 

Greg  Stanford  has  completed  his  MSCE  at 
Carnegie-Mellon,  Pittsburgh,  and  is  now  a 
structural  engineer  for  Greiner  Engineering  in 
Baltimore,  MD. 

Brian  Stoffers  serves  as  a  senior  R&D  engi- 
neer at  Xyolgics  in  Burlington,  MA. 

Adage  Inc.,  manufacturer  of  color  raster  and 
vector  refresh  computer  graphics  work  stations, 
has  appointed  Jeffrey  Wade  sales  engineer  for 
the  Western  region.  In  his  new  post,  he  is 
responsible  for  serving  accounts  in  the  Los 
Angeles  area  and  Orange  County,  CA.  Since 
1981.  he  has  been  a  product  specialist  with 
Adage.  He  belongs  to  the  IEEE. 

Andre  Walker  is  a  junior  chemical  engineer 
with  Duracell  Inc.,  Norcross,  GA.  He  and  his 
wife.  Anne  Caulfield-Walker,  '82,  reside  in 
Stone  Mountain. 

Mati  Weiderpass  works  in  the  general  staff 
headquarters  of  the  major  command  responsible 
for  the  deployment  of  the  Pershing  II  missile 
system.  During  his  free  time,  he  is  working  on 
his  master's  degree  through  Boston  University. 
He  writes:  "I  also  frequent  the  Austrian  and 


AUGUST  1984       47 


Reunion  '84:  Roy  Iffland,  '39,  with  Don  Berth,  '57,  '59,  who  is  WPI  Vice  President, 
University  Relations. 


Swiss  slopes  for  ski  adventures  and  look  for- 
ward to  sharing  some  of  those  adventures  with 
other  alumni.  Most  recently,  I  attended  the 
Winter  Olympics  in  Sarajevo." 

Catherine  Girouard  Wilson,  who  is  pursu- 
ing her  MBA  at  Arizona  State  University,  is  a 
supplier  quality  engineer  for  Motorola  in 
Scottsdale,  AZ. 

John  Wilson  is  now  working  at  Du  Pont's 
Savannah  River  plant  in  Aiken,  SC.  He  and  his 
wife,  Robin,  have  two  children  and  live  in 
North  Augusta. 

Lt.  Katherine  Coghlan  Wurm  is  stationed 
at  Hanscom  AFB,  MA. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Michael  Iassogna  and  Linda 
Patavino  on  September  24,  1983,  in  Bridge- 
port, CT.  Linda  graduated  from  Fairfield  Uni- 
versity and  is  an  accountant  with  Du  Pont  in 
Wilmington,  DE,  where  Mike  is  a  project  engi- 
neer. .  .  .Thomas  Potter  to  Jeanne  Young  on 
March  17,  1984,  in  Taunton,  MA.  Jeanne  grad- 
uated from  Dean  Jr.  College,  Franklin,  MA, 
and  is  a  medical  assistant.  Tom  is  with  the  U.S. 
Navy's  nuclear  submarine  program.  .  .  .John 
Tirrell  and  Anne  O'Loughlin  in  East  Wey- 
mouth, MA.  Anne  graduated  from  Quincy 
Junior  College.  John  is  with  Stone  &  Webster. 


Thomas  Amoruso  is  a  project  engineer  with 
Addressograph/Farrington  in  Hudson,  MA. 

Luis  Anez  is  transportation  supervisor  for 
Lagoven.  He  resides  with  his  wife,  Anabella, 
in  Caracas,  Venezuela. 

Sean  Anzuoni  works  on  large  optical  sys- 
tems at  Itek  Corp.,  Lexington,  MA. 

Robert  Arnold  is  a  math  teacher  at  Gorton 
Junior  High  School  in  Warwick,  RI. 

Paul  Atkinson  works  as  an  assistant  engineer 
for  Northeast  Nuclear  Engineering  Co.,  Water- 
ford,  CT.  He  is  located  at  the  Millstone  III 
nuclear  power  plant  in  the  start-up  engineering 
department. 

James  and  Joyce  Trela  Auman  continue 
with  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  CT, 
where  he  is  an  analysis  engineer  and  she  is  a 
project  engineer. 

Anni  Autio  is  now  a  word  processor/engi- 
neer with  Chas.  T  Main. 

Kenneth  Beck  is  self-employed  with  Acupac 
Packaging  in  Mahwah,  NJ.  He  started  the  firm, 
which  is  a  contract  packager  of  cosmetic  phar- 
maceutical products,  in  1982. 

Scott  Berry  is  a  graduate  research  assistant  at 
George  Washington  University/NASA  in 
Hampton,  VA. 

Michael  Bickford  works  for  Westinghouse 
Electric  and  is  located  in  Amherst,  NY. 

Timothy  Brennan  is  with  the  Naval  Ord- 
nance Station  in  Indian  Head,  MD. 

Kingsley  Brown  serves  as  a  power  systems 


engineer  with  McGraw  Edison  Co.  in  Canons- 
burg,  PA. 

Scott  Brown  is  a  manufacturing  engineer 
with  Raytheon  in  Waltham,  MA. 

Thomas  Brucker  is  an  associate  program- 
mer for  IBM  in  Kingston,  NY. 

Edward  Canfield  works  for  IBM  in 
Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

Phillip  Collingwood  holds  the  post  of  pro- 
duction manager  at  Guilford  Gravure  Corp., 
Green  Cove  Springs,  FL. 

John  Corey  serves  as  a  software  develop- 
ment engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  in  Cuper- 
tino, CA. 

Ernest  Cormier  is  the  self-employed  presi- 
dent of  Nicacia  Software  in  Stamford,  CT.  The 
company  designs  and  programs  game  and  edu- 
cational software. 

Charles  Coward  III  serves  as  a  junior  devel- 
opment engineer  at  AMP  Inc.  in  Harrisburg, 
PA. 

Lt.  Cory  Cronan  is  an  analysis  officer  with 
the  U.S.  Army  at  White  Sands  Missile  Range, 
NM. 

Terry  Crook  serves  as  an  electronic  systems 
service  engineer  for  Hamilton  Standard,  Wind- 
sor Locks,  CT.  She  is  also  working  on  her  MS 
in  engineering  management  at  Western  New 
England  College. 

Lawrence  Donohue  is  an  industrial  engineer 
for  Stanhome  in  Easthampton,  MA. 

James  Dorsey  works  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer for  Codex  Corp.,  Mansfield,  MA. 

Gregory  Doyle  is  a  highway  engineer  with 
the  Federal  Highway  Administration  in  Tren- 
ton, NJ. 

Leon  Droby  works  for  New  York  Telephone 
in  New  York  City. 

Richard  Ferron  is  now  with  the  research  and 
development  division  of  Babcock  and  Wilcox 
Co.  He  is  located  in  Alliance,  OH. 

Douglas  Frey  is  a  resident  officer  in  charge 
of  construction  contracts  for  the  U.S.  Navy. 

Majid  Ghamami  is  a  chemical  engineer  for 
the  Khorasson  Regional  Water  Authority  in 
Iran.  He  has  an  MBA  from  AIC. 

David  Gillespie  works  for  United  Illuminat- 
ing Co.,  New  Haven,  CT. 

Robert  Godiksen  works  as  a  sales  engineer 
for  L.  B.  Swan  Assoc,  Hartford,  CT. 

Currently,  Paula  Green  serves  as  a  market 
development  engineer  at  Union  Carbide's  Linde 
Division  in  Tarrytown,  NY. 

Louis  Greuling  is  employed  as  a  field  engi- 
neer by  Pullman  Power  Products  of  Avila 
Beach,  CA. 

Gerard  Grippo  works  for  General 
Dynamics  in  Quincy,  MA. 

Deborah  Gustafson  has  relocated  with  Digi- 
tal Equipment  Corp.  to  New  Hampshire. 

Robert  Houlihan  is  an  electrical  construc- 
tion engineer  with  Stone  &  Webster  in  Water- 
ford,  CT. 

Paul  Howard  is  a  project  engineer  with 
Anderson-Nichols  &  Co.  in  Clinton,  MA.  He 
and  his  wife,  Michele,  have  one  child  and  live 
in  Holden. 

Richard  Hudson  serves  as  an  assistant  con- 
struction coordinator  with  Camp,  Dresser  & 
McKee,  Boston. 

Last  year,  Florencio  Icaza,  who  resides  in 
Panama,  was  promoted  to  chief  engineer  of 
IRHE's  thermoelectric  power  plant. 

Bradley  Jarvis,  who  works  for  Raytheon  in 
Northboro,  MA,  is  also  associated  with  Metho- 
graphics  Research  Corp.,  Bedford,  MA. 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


Douglas  Jones  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Bell  Labs  in  Holmdel,  NJ. 

Jeffrey  Kern  works  as  a  systems  designer  for 
Singer-Kearfott,  Wayne,  NJ. 

Michael  LaFleur  is  now  an  electronic  engi- 
neer designing  fiber  systems  at  Kelco  Fiber 
Optics  in  Norwood,  MA. 

Thomas  Malin  serves  as  a  design  and  devel- 
opment engineer  for  Raytheon  in  Sudbury, 
MA. 

Douglas  Melanson  serves  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer at  IBM,  Milwaukee,  WI. 

Stephen  Morgan  works  as  a  systems  analyst 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  Columbus,  GA. 

Dan  Multer  works  for  Communication  Con- 
cepts in  Branford,  CT. 

Thomas  Nicolosi  holds  the  post  of  process 
engineer  at  MACOM  PHI  in  Torrance,  CA. 

Glenn  Oakley  is  a  structural  engineer  at 
Dewberry  &  Davis,  Fairfax,  VA. 

Guy  Osborne  serves  as  quality  assurance 
engineer  at  Lacey  Mfg.  Co.  in  Bridgeport,  CT. 

Steven  Oxman  is  a  computer  scientist  for 
NATO/USA  group. 

Richard  Petrucci,  a  designer  for  Stone  & 
Webster,  Boston,  is  currently  working  at  a 
nuclear  power  station  in  Waterford,  CT. 

Fred  Roys  is  slated  to  move  to  Andersen 
AFB,  Guam,  in  August,  where  he  will  fly 
B-52s. 

Randall  Rubinstein  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer with  Hottinger  Baldwin  Measurements  in 
Framingham,  MA.  He  has  an  MBA  from  WPI. 

Bahman  Sahba  is  an  engineer  and  supervi- 
sor of  R&D  at  Posi-Seal  International  in  North 
Stonington,  CT.  He  is  also  an  engineering  con- 
sultant. He  has  an  MSME  from  WPI. 

Arne  Salonen  is  employed  as  a  city  planner 
by  Gillespie-Delorenzo  in  San  Diego,  CA. 

Charles  Santore  has  been  serving  as  an  engi- 
neering aide  with  the  Department  of  Public 
Works  in  Stamford,  CT,  and  studying  for  his 
MSCS  at  Pace  University,  White  Plains,  NY. 

David  Schedin  holds  the  post  of  product 
sales  engineer  at  Teradyne  Connection  Systems 
Inc.  in  Nashua,  NH.  He  and  his  wife,  Nina, 
reside  in  Hollis. 

Ingrid  Slembek  continues  with  DEC  in  Lit- 
tleton, MA,  and  is  working  for  her  MSCS  at 
WPI. 

Jan  Sorensen  is  involved  with  independent 
machine  sales  in  Copenhagen. 

Wolfgang  Strobel  is  product  manager  for 
Gerber  Scientific  Products,  Manchester,  CT. 

Liz  Sydney  is  assistant  analyst  in  the  mainte- 
nance and  construction  department  for  New 
England  Power  Service  in  Westboro,  MA. 

Carsten  Thomassen  works  as  a  management 
consultant  at  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.,  Copen- 
hagen, Denmark. 

George  Valaitis  works  for  IBM  in  Owego, 
NY. 

Thomas  Villani  is  a  student  at  the  University 
of  Connecticut  School  of  Dental  Medicine. 

Peter  Yee  is  on  the  technical  staff  at  Hughes 
Aircraft  in  El  Segundo,  CA. 


1983 


"Thread  Gourd — 
Darn  Carefully!5 


\» 


MARRIED:  Daniel  Fretz  and  Roberta  Dion  in 
Norfolk,  MA,  on  March  17,  1984.  Roberta 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College  and  is 
a  cartographer.  Dan  works  for  RCA  Automa- 
tive  Systems.  .  .  .Roger  Sacilotto  and  Susan 


If  most  mechanical  engineers  told  you  that 
gourds  were  once  used  for  darning  stock- 
ings, you'd  think  they  were  pulling  your 
leg.  If  Howard  Atkins,  '34  ME,  tells  you 
that,  you'd  better  listen.  Atkins  is  not  what 
you'd  call  an  average  ME.  He's  what 
you'd  call  an  extraordinary  farmer-entre- 
preneur. And  he  knows  his  gourds! 

"My  apples,  too,"  he  laughs.  His  600- 
acre  Bay  Road  Fruit  Farm  in  South 
Amherst,  MA,  produces  more  than 
100,000  bushels  of  apples  annually. 

Another  important  crop  is  pumpkins. 
"There  are  two  major  types  of  pumpkins," 
Atkins  explains.  "The  sugar  variety, 
which  is  for  pies,  and  the  Halloween  vari- 
ety, which  is  larger,  coarser  and  more  suit- 
able for  decoration." 

Along  with  the  apples  and  pumpkins,  he 
grows  peaches  and  pears,  all  of  which  are 
sold  through  his  own  retail  store,  Atkins 
Farm  Fruit  Bowl.  "And  a  few  years  ago," 
he  reports,  "we  added  a  baking  facility." 

Atkins's  "we"  is  not  editorial.  His  sons. 
Dale  and  Dan,  represent  the  fourth  genera- 
tion of  Atkins  fruit  farm  producers.  Back 
in  1887,  Howard's  grandfather,  George, 
bought  an  orchard  with  100  trees.  In  1952, 
the  third  generation  (Howard)  took  over 
the  operation,  progressively  increasing  his 
orchards. 

In  1970,  Atkins  was  elected  to  the  board 


Howard  Atkins ,  '34  ME 

of  directors  of  Agway  Inc.,  a  farmers' 
cooperative,  in  a  district  covering  the 
states  of  Connecticut,  Massachusetts  and 
Rhode  Island.  "My  greatest  honor,"  he 
says.  He  was  also  elected  to  the  board  of 
Curtice-Burns,  a  food  processing  corpora- 
tion. The  two  organizations  do  about  $900 
million  worth  of  business  annually. 

Howard  Atkins  and  his  wife,  Ruth,  have 
partially  retired  to  their  all-season  home  in 
Sugar  Hill,  NH.  But  full  retirement  is  not 
in  the  cards.  Each  year  Howard  increases 
his  orchard  acreage.  "I  love  the  land,"  he 
says. 


Woodyard  on  April  15,  1984,  in  Danvers,  MA. 
Susan,  who  graduated  from  Marion  Court  Sec- 
retarial School,  Boston,  is  a  secretary  at  Massa- 
chusetts Computers  Associates  Inc.,  Wake- 
field, where  Roger  is  a  systems  engineer. 
.  .  .  .Edward  Walls,  Jr.  to  Andrea  Statile  in 
Woodbridge,  NJ,  on  October  29,  1983.  Andrea 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Delaware  and 
is  an  account  coordinator  with  MED  Communi- 
cations in  Woodbridge.  Edward  is  a  chemical 
technician  at  Arkay  Research  Center  in  Ran- 
dolph. 

Douglas  Acker  is  studying  for  a  PhD  in 
chemical  engineering  at  the  University  of  Flor- 
ida in  Gainesville. 

Sonia  Adrianowycz  continues  as  a  chemical 
engineer  with  the  U.S.  Navy  at  Navelex  in 
Washington,  DC. 

Roy  Arsenault  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Rockwell  International  in  Lakewood, 
CA. 

John  Atkinson  is  a  staff  consultant  for 
Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.  in  Hartford,  CT. 

Donna  Bagdonovich  serves  as  a  chemical 
engineer  with  the  U.S.  Army  Natick  R&D  Cen- 
ter, Natick,  MA. 

Paul  Bozoian  is  with  WPI's  Alden  Research 
Laboratory  in  Holden,  MA. 

Michael  Brousseau  works  for  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft, Stratford,  CT. 

Sean  Cafferty  is  inventory  control  supervi- 
sor for  Lillian  Vernon,  Elmsford,  NY. 

Philip  Chapnik  continues  as  a  grad  student 


in  the  PhD  program  at  the  Institute  of  Optics  at 
the  University  of  Rochester. 

David  Crawford  has  been  commissioned  a 
second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  upon 
graduation  from  Officer  Training  School  at 
Lackland  AFB,  TX,  and  assigned  to  Randolph 
AFB,  TX. 

Janina  Natrillo  DeMasi  continues  as  an 
electrical  engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Strat- 
ford, CT. 

James  Despelteau  is  an  associate  member  of 
the  technical  staff  at  RCAs  government  systems 
division  in  Burlington,  MA. 

Neil  Dubois  works  for  the  Naval  Underwater 
Systems  Command  in  New  London,  CT. 

Lt.  Jon  Ericson  has  completed  a  signal  offi- 
cer's basic  course  at  the  Army  Signal  School  in 
Fort  Gordon,  GA.  Recently,  he  was  acting 
chief  operations  officer  for  the  Signal  Corps  at 
Dugway  Proving  Grounds,  UT.  He  has  been 
associated  with  the  Atmospheric  Science  Labo- 
ratory in  White  Sands,  NM. 

Pamela  Fearn  serves  as  a  process  engineer  at 
ITT  in  Shelton,  CT. 

Sheryl  Hess  works  as  a  junior  mechanical 
engineer  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Timothy  Horan  is  a  second  lieutenant  with 
the  U.S.  Army  stationed  in  Fisbach,  West  Ger- 
many. 

John  Janosik  continues  as  a  senior  program- 
mer at  Financier  Inc.,  Westboro,  MA. 

Thomas  Kemeny  is  an  associate  engineer 
with  Westinghouse  Electric  in  Madison,  PA. 


AUGUST  1984       49 


Elaine  Kokernak  is  a  software  engineer  for 
DEC  in  Marlboro,  MA. 

Andrew  Krassowski  has  been  named  associ- 
ate systems  engineer  at  Bristol  Babcock  in 
Waterbury,  CT. 

Kenneth  Kubilins  has  been  taking  under- 
graduate pilot  training  with  the  USAF  at  Vance 
AFB.  OK. 

John  Lynch  works  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
Fenwal  in  Ashland,  MA. 

Kenneth  McFall  holds  the  post  of  area  man- 
ager at  NE  Chemical  Co.,  Merrimack,  NH. 

Keith  Messier  is  employed  as  an  advanced 
manufacturing  engineer  with  GE  in  Erie,  PA. 

John  Moore  is  studying  for  his  MSME  at 
RPI. 

Stephen  Nevalsky  has  accepted  an  electri- 
cal-design engineering  post  at  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Lewisville,  TX. 

Christine  O'Connor  serves  as  associate 
engineer  at  Raytheon,  Waltham,  MA. 

Leslie  Rooney  is  employed  as  a  junior  chem- 
ist at  Herbert  &  Schuster  in  Quincy.  MA. 

Alan  Rosenberg  is  an  airframe  engineer  at 
Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT. 

Carol  Schober  is  a  systems  programmer  ana- 
lyst with  Pratt  &  Whitney  in  East  Hartford,  CT. 

Richard  Scott  serves  as  a  process  and  devel- 
opment engineer  at  UNC  Naval  Products  Divi- 
sion, Uncasville,  CT. 

Tim  Scott  works  as  a  scientific  analyst  at 
Xon  Tech,  Van  Nuys,  CA. 

Stephen  Smith  is  a  components  engineer  in 
GE's  ordnance  division,  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Donald  Soubie  works  as  a  development 
engineer  at  the  U.S.  Army  Chemical  Research 
&  Development  Center,  Aberdeen  Proving 
Grounds.  MD. 

Wendy  Stebbins  is  a  design  engineer  for  GE 
Ordnance  Systems  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

William  St.  John  has  been  named  marketing 
engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Colorado 
Springs,  CO. 

Richard  Thomas  works  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer at  Singer  Co.,  Kearfott  division,  in 
Wayne,  NJ. 

Christopher  Trainor  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Ingersoll  Rand,  Wichita  Falls.  TX. 

Jeffrey  Twomey  is  a  digital  systems  engineer 
with  GE  in  Daytona  Beach,  FL. 

John  Visbaras  is  a  member  of  the  profes- 
sional staff  at  American  Management  Systems 
in  Arlington,  VA. 

Ellen  Warms  serves  as  a  system  analyst  at 
IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

Anne  Warner  is  a  software  engineer  at 
DEC,  Nashua.  NH. 

Deb  Weinstein  works  for  GE  in  Bingham- 
ton.  NY. 

William  Wheeler,  a  U.S.  Navy  officer,  is  at 
the  Nuclear  Power  School  in  Orlando,  FL. 

Curtis  Whitehead  serves  as  a  software  engi- 
neer at  DEC  in  Andover,  MA. 

Arthur  Wu  has  been  studying  at  RPI. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

James  F.  O'Regan  (WPI  '49,  SIM  '59)  has 
been  honored  by  WPI  for  professional  achieve- 
ment with  the  Albert  J.  Schwieger  Award.  He 
is  president  of  Feecon  Corp. ,  Westboro,  MA. 
Lloyd  Pote,  '61,  a  selectman  in  Sturbridge, 


Reunion  '84:  William  Firla,  '60,  Walter  Bank, 
Seaberg,  '56  share  a  laugh. 

MA,  since  1981,  has  been  active  in  other  town 
affairs.  He  has  served  as  chairman  of 
Sturbridge 's  finance  committee  and  as  a  mem- 
ber of  the  town's  personnel  policy  committee 
and  its  recreation  committee.  Other  interests 
have  been  the  United  Way  and  the  Rotary  Club. 
He  is  a  founder  and  past  president  of  CPC  Engi- 
neering Corp.  .  .  .Robert  Kendick,  '65,  is 
plant  manager  at  Bay  State  Abrasives  in  North 
Manchester,  IN.  .  .  .In  February,  Alden  Jacob- 
son,  '66,  coordinator  of  Vermont  Machine 
Skills  Training  in  Springfield  since  1980,  gave 
a  talk  on  the  electronics  training  program  before 
the  local  chapter  of  the  International  Manage- 
ment Council.  He  graduated  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Kentucky  and  retired  from  Cincinnati 
Milacron-Heald  as  manager  of  engineering  fol- 
lowing 26  years  of  service. 

Jack  Shields,  '69,  group  manager  for  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  was  the  guest  speaker  at  the 
National  Honor  Society  awards  dinner  held  at 
St.  John's  High  School  in  Shrewsbury,  MA,  in 
April.  He  is  a  graduate  of  the  program  for  man- 
agement development  at  Harvard's  Graduate 
School  of  Business  Administration.  .  .  .Carl 
Harris,  '75,  has  been  appointed  sales  engineer 
for  Pressmasters  Inc.  of  Newburyport,  MA, 
and  Cheshire,  CT.  The  firm  supplies  metal 
stamping  equipment  and  tooling  for  the  New 
England  states.  Harris  graduated  from  Worces- 


'46,  and  WPI  Director  of  Admissions  Roy 


ter  Junior  College  and  has  completed  an 
Applied  Management  Science  course  at  UNH. 
Before  joining  Pressmasters,  he  worked  18 
years  in  the  tool  and  die  industry  and  held  man- 
agerial positions  in  the  contract  stamping  and 
fabrication  industry  in  Worcester  and  New 
Hampshire. 

Natural  Science  Program 

Deborah  Pietro  Seal,  '78,  is  manager  of  media 
distribution  and  computer  training  in  the  New 
York  State  Education  Department  Center  for 
Learning  Technologies  in  Albany.  .  .  .Martin 
Conway,  '79,  was  the  commencement  speaker 
at  Granby  (MA)  High  School.  He  taught  math 
and  science  at  the  school  for  nine  years.  Also, 
he  had  served  as  a  class  advisor,  drama  coach, 
ski  club  advisor  and  chess  club  advisor.  Cur- 
rently, he  teaches  math  at  Longmeadow  High 
School.  .  .  .George  Radcliffe,  '80,  chairman 
of  the  science  department  at  Cathedral  High 
School,  Springfield,  MA,  is  also  a  part-time 
instructor  in  the  chemistry  department  at  Elms 
College,  Chicopee.  .  .  .Karen  Madsen,  '81,  is 
a  chemistry  teacher  at  Eastside  Catholic  High 
School,  Bellevue,  WA.  .  .  .Carol  Andrich 
Mishler  '83  teaches  science  at  Reading  (MA) 
Memorial  High  School. 


50       WPI  JOURNAL 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Everett  L.  Bragdon.  '16,  died  in  Alden,  NY, 
on  April  4,  1984,  at  the  age  of  90.  A  native  of 
Westbrook,  ME,  he  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI. 

He  spent  his  entire  career  as  an  electronics 
writer  for  newspapers  and  magazines.  For  18 
years,  he  was  radio  and  television  editor  of  the 
New  York  Sun  and  New  York  Herald.  Also,  he 
was  trade  news  editor  and  corporate  house 
organ  editor  for  NBC  and  RCA  Corporation, 
from  which  he  retired  in  1959.  He  was  the 
author  of  The  Radio  Amateur 's  Handbook.  He 
belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  Skull. 

Max  W.  Tucker,  '17,  formerly  with  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office,  died  on  November  2,  1983,  in 
Easton,  MD.  A  native  of  Washington,  DC,  he 
was  bom  on  Oct.  16,  1893.  He  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  served  with  the  U.S. 
Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey  and  as  a  captain 
with  the  U.S.  Army  Cavalry  in  New  Mexico. 
He  joined  the  Patent  Office  as  an  examiner  in 
1919,  retiring  from  his  supervisory  post  on  the 
Board  of  Appeals  in  1955.  Mr.  Tucker  gradu- 
ated from  the  old  Washington  College  of  Law. 
He  belonged  to  Civil  War  roundtable  organiza- 
tions in  Washington  and  Alexandria.  He  was 
also  a  trustee  of  the  Alexandria  Public  Library, 
a  member  of  the  Congregational  Church  and  a 
past  president  of  the  Washington  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association.  He  was  the  father  of 
George  K.  Tucker,  '51. 

Percival  P.  Drury,  '18,  died  on  March  16, 
1984,  in  Seminole,  FL.  He  was  born  in  Spen- 
cer. MA,  on  Aug.  9,  1896,  and  received  his 
BSCE  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Turners  Falls 
Power  &  Electric  Co.,  Samuel  H.  Pitcher  Co., 
Liberty  Screw  Products  Co.  and  Quabaug  Rub- 
ber Co.  He  was  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  1918 
and  in  World  War  II.  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta 
Pi. 

Baalis  Sanford,  '20,  of  Holden,  MA,  passed 
away  recently.  A  Clinton  native,  he  was  born 
on  Jan.  26. 1899. 

In  1920,  he  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI.  He  had  been  employed  by  Anaconda 
Copper  Mining  Co.  and  New  England  Aniline 
Works.  For  many  years  he  worked  for  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester,  where  he  had  been  a  research 
chemist,  superintendent  of  organic  products 
and  technical  secretary  to  the  works  manager. 

Mr.  Sanford  was  a  Mason,  a  former  finance 
committee  member  for  the  Town  of  Holden  and 
a  past  president  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers.  He 
belonged  to  SAE. 

Harry  W.  Tenney,  '20,  a  retired  administrative 
assistant  from  Westinghouse,  died  November 
19,  1983,  in  Centerville,  MA,  at  the  age  of  84. 
He  was  bom  in  Leominster,  MA,  on  April  19, 
1899. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI  in  1920 
until  1964,  when  he  retired  as  assistant  to  the 
vice  president  in  the  elevator  division  in  Jersey 
City,  NJ,  he  was  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.  While  with  the  company,  he  was  assist- 


ant director  of  research  and  received  the  Wes- 
tinghouse Order  of  Merit  award. 

Mr.  Tenney,  who  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi,  Tau 
Beta  Pi  and  Skull,  was  a  life  member  of  the 
IEEE  and  was  affiliated  with  the  Rotary,  the 
Masons,  the  Osterville  Men's  Club,  the  Con- 
gregational Church  and  the  Cape  Cod  Horticul- 
tural Society.  Formerly,  he  served  as  president 
of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association.  He  was  the  father  of  Edwin  Ten- 
ney, '59,  and  Harry  Tenney,  Jr.,  '56,  presi- 
dent of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Robert  M.  F.ldred.  '21,  an  aviation  pioneer 
and  retired  aeronautical  engineer  for  Scott  Avi- 
ation, Buffalo,  NY,  died  February  17,  1984,  in 
Lewiston,  NY,  as  the  result  of  an  automobile 
accident.  He  was  84. 

A  native  of  Springfield,  MA,  he  was  bom  on 
Aug.  28,  1899,  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1921.  Prior  to  joining 
Scott,  he  was  with  Bell  Aircraft  for  many  years 
and  helped  with  the  production  of  the  first 
American  jet  fighter  during  World  War  II.  He 
had  also  been  employed  by  Fredric  Flader  Inc. 

In  the  1930s,  he  worked  on  aircraft  design 
with  Granville  Brothers  Aircraft  at  the  old 
Springfield  Airport.  The  company  manufac- 
tured business,  pleasure  and  racing  planes  bear- 
ing the  Gee  Bee  insignia. 

Mr.  Eldred,  a  World  War  I  Army  veteran, 
belonged  to  ATO,  the  Buffalo  Aero  Club,  the 
Masons  and  the  Engineering  Society  of  Buf- 
falo. He  was  a  former  treasurer  of  the  Western 
New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Harland  G.  Foster,  '21,  of  Collinsville,  CT, 
died  at  his  home  on  January  1 1 ,  1984. 

He  was  bom  on  March  5,  1899,  in  North 
Brookfield,  MA.  For  36  years,  he  was  with 
White  Laboratories  in  Kenilworth,  NJ,  from 
which  he  retired  as  office  manager.  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Leodore  E.  Maynard,  '22,  passed  away  in 
Laconia,  NH,  on  March  5,  1984,  at  the  age  of 
86. 

He  was  bom  in  Putnam,  CT,  on  July  15, 
1897,  and  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI  in 
1922.  For  many  years  he  was  with  Boston  Edi- 
son Company,  from  which  he  retired  in  1962. 
He  was  a  member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

Clarence  W.  McElroy,  '24,  died  in  Concord, 
MA,  on  March  8,  1984.  He  was  bom  on  Sept. 
3,  1902,  in  Chicopee  Falls. 

After  receiving  his  BSEE,  he  joined  the  Bos- 
ton &  Maine  Railroad,  from  which  he  retired  as 
superintendent  in  1967.  He  belonged  to 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  the  New  England  Rail- 
road Club.  An  avid  soccer  fan,  he  was  a  mem- 
ber of  WPI's  first  soccer  team. 

Cmdr.  Warren  P.  Gleason,  '26,  USNR,  died  at 
his  home  in  Grindstone  Neck,  Winter  Harbor, 
ME,  on  February  20,  1984.  He  was  bom  in 
Worcester  on  Oct.  14,  1902,  and  graduated  as 
an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI. 

He  was  with  Factory  Insurance  Association 
until  1942,  when  he  entered  the  U.S.  Navy.  In 


1946,  he  retired  from  the  Navy  as  a  full  com- 
mander, but  remained  with  the  Navy  as  a  civil- 
ian fire  protection  engineer  in  charge  of  the 
First  Naval  District  in  Boston.  He  retired  from 
his  civilian  post  in  1967. 

A  member  of  many  Winter  Harbor  town 
committees,  he  was  also  a  trustee  of  the  Maine 
Coast  Memorial  Hospital.  He  belonged  to  Phi 
Sigma  Kappa  and  the  national  and  Massachu- 
setts societies  of  Professional  Engineers,  and  he 
was  a  charter  member  of  the  Society  of  Fire 
Protection  Engineers. 

Archie  J.  Home,  '26,  past  president  of  Home 
&  Hastings  Inc.,  Worcester,  died  in  Worcester 
on  March  11,  1984,  at  the  age  of  81.  Bom  in 
Scotland,  he  received  a  BSME  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  a  manager  for  R.C. 
Taylor  Trust,  an  assessor  for  the  City  of  Wor- 
cester, a  development  manager  for  W.H.  Saw- 
yer Co.,  a  sales  engineer  for  Chain  Belt  Com- 
pany and  Norton  Co.  and  a  mortgage  officer  for 
Worcester  Federal  Savings  and  Loan.  The 
founder,  chairman  of  the  board  and  past  presi- 
dent of  Home  &  Hastings,  a  regional  brokerage 
and  appraisal  firm  in  Worcester,  he  began  his 
real -estate  career  in  1933. 

Mr.  Home  was  a  past  president  of  the  New 
England  chapter  of  the  American  Institute  of 
Real  Estate  Appraisers  (AIRE A),  as  well  as  a 
former  Northeast  regional  vice  president  and 
member  of  the  governing  council  of  the  organi- 
zation. He  was  awarded  the  Professional  Rec- 
ognition Award  and  held  the  MAI  (Member  of 
the  Appraisal  Institute)  designation.  An  instruc- 
tor with  the  AIREA  for  many  years,  he  taught 
appraisal  courses  at  Tulane,  University  of  San 
Francisco.  University  of  Wisconsin,  UConn 
and  WPI.  He  also  taught  at  the  Massachusetts 
Assessor  School  at  UMass  in  Amherst.  He 
belonged  to  the  Society  of  Real  Estate  Apprais- 
ers and  held  an  SREA  designation. 

Besides  serving  as  a  former  registrar  of  voters 
in  Worcester,  Mr.  Home  was  past  president  of 
the  Greater  Worcester  Board  of  Realtors.  In 
1967,  he  was  named  the  local  "Realtor  of  the 
Year."  He  was  a  past  master  of  his  Masonic 
lodge  and  belonged  to  the  Commandery, 
Knights  Templar  and  the  Eastern  Star.  In  1959, 
he  received  the  Silver  Beaver  Award  in  recogni- 
tion of  his  many  years  of  service  with  the  Boy 
Scouts,  both  in  the  U.S.  and  abroad. 

He  was  past  president  of  the  Massachusetts 
Land  League,  and  a  member  of  the  American 
Right  of  Way  Association  and  the  Worcester 
Kiltie  Band  Association.  A  former  member  of 
the  National  Guard,  Mr.  Home  also  belonged 
to  Theta  Chi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  the  Poly  Club  and 
the  Tech  Old-Timers.  He  had  served  as  vice 
president  of  the  Class  of  1926  and  as  a  member 
of  the  WPI  Fund  Board. 

W.  Bigelow  Hall,  '28,  a  retired  general  patent 
counsel  for  United  Shoe  Machinery  Corp.  (now 
USM-Corp..  Emhart),  died  in  Florida  on  Janu- 
ary 9,  1984.  He  was  bom  in  Fitchburg,  MA,  on 
Nov.  3,  1906. 

After  studying  electrical  engineering  at  WPI, 
Mr.  Hall  graduated  with  his  LLB  from  Wash- 
ington College  of  Law  in  1933.  Prior  to  joining 
United  Shoe  in  1939.  he  was  with  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office  and  Minneapolis  Honeywell.  He 
belonged  to  the  American  Bar  Association,  the 
American  Patent  Law  Association  and  the  Bos- 
ton Patent  Law  Association  (former  president). 


AUGUST  1984       51 


Active  in  community  affairs,  he  had  chaired  the 
Needham  School  Committee  and  the  Commu- 
nity Fund.  He  was  a  Mason  and  a  member  of 
Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Harold  C.  Bates,  '29,  longtime  plant  engineer 
for  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.,  in  East 
Springfield.  MA,  died  on  February  5.  1984.  at 
the  age  of  78.  A  native  of  Claremont.  NH.  he 
received  his  BSEE  and  professional  engineer- 
ing degree  from  WPI. 

During  40  years  with  Westinghouse,  he  had 
been  a  tester,  works  engineer,  layout  engineer 
and  maintenance  engineer.  In  1966,  he  retired. 
After  retirement,  he  was  employed  as  a  sales 
representative  by  Electrical  Motor  Repair  Co. 
He  was  a  registered  engineer  in  Massachusetts. 

Mr.  Bates  belonged  to  the  Methodist  church, 
the  Masons  and  the  Eastern  Star.  He  was  a 
charter  member  of  the  DeMolay  and  was 
invested  with  the  DeMolay  Legion  of  Honor. 

Uno  A.  Matson.  '29,  a  retired  member  of  the 
technical  staff  at  Bell  Telephone  Labs,  North 
Andover.  MA,  died  in  Exeter,  NH,  on  March 
11,  1984.  He  was  76. 

In  1929.  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 
For  43  years  he  was  with  Bell.  During  World 
War  II  he  was  involved  with  defense  work  at 
Bell  Labs  in  New  York  City  and  Murray  Hill, 
NJ.  He  had  two  patents  on  transmission  sys- 
tems. 

In  1955.  he  transferred  to  the  Merrimack  Val- 
ley plant  in  North  Andover,  where  he  worked 
on  microwave  and  radar  communications.  He 
retired  in  1974. 

Mr.  Matson  was  a  cellist,  pianist,  local  com- 
poser and  church  organist.  He  was  a  charter 
member  of  the  Merrimack  Valley  Philharmonic 
Orchestra,  a  member  of  the  Nashua  (NH)  Sym- 
phony and  a  founder  of  the  Whittier  Chamber 
Orchestra  in  Haverhill. 

A  member  of  Theta  Chi,  Sigma  Chi  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  he  also  belonged  to  the  American 
Guild  of  Organists  and  the  Newburyport  Art 
Association.  He  was  a  life  member  of  the 
American  Federation  of  Musicians. 

H.  Edward  Perkins,  Jr.,  '33,  passed  away  at 
the  age  of  72  at  his  winter  home  in  Tavares,  FL, 
on  April  12,  1984.  A  native  of  Woodstock,  VT, 
he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

He  had  been  employed  by  Perkins  Machine 
&  Gear  Co.  and  Winchester  Repeating  Arms 
Co.  From  1947  to  1962.  he  worked  for  Olin 
Mathieson  Corp..  where  he  rose  to  associate 
director  of  R&D.  In  1971,  he  retired  as  design 
supervisor  from  Sikorsky  Aircraft.  Stratford. 
CT.  Following  retirement,  he  and  his  wife, 
Mildred,  built  a  summer  home  on  525  acres  in 
Bridgewater  Comers.  VT. 

Mr.  Perkins,  a  member  of  the  ASME  and 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  was  a  professional  engi- 
neer in  Connecticut. 

Joseph  A.  Bober,  '34,  of  Milton.  MA,  died 
last  November.  He  was  bom  in  Manchester, 
NH,  on  Sept.  1.  1912.  He  graduated  as  a  civil 
engineer  from  WPI. 

During  his  long  career  with  the  U.S.  Army, 
he  served  as  chief  of  the  Corps  of  Engineers  in 
Boston  and  as  chief  of  the  planning  and  control 
branch  in  the  real-estate  division  of  the  Corps  in 
Waltham.  MA. 

Charles  C.  Bonin,  '38,  WPI  trustee  emeritus. 


died  on  Hilton  Head  Island,  SC.  on  April  13, 
1984.  He  was  67. 

A  worldwide  authority  on  the  construction  of 
arch  dams  and  the  design  of  generating  stations, 
he  was  posthumously  awarded  an  honorary 
doctor  of  engineering  degree  by  WPI  during 
commencement  ceremonies  on  May  19.  When 
he  learned  of  the  upcoming  honor  just  three 
weeks  prior  to  his  death,  he  said,  "I  cannot 
conceive  of  anything  finer  happening  to  me  at 
this  point  in  my  life." 

Bom  in  Covington.  KY,  Charlie  graduated  as 
both  a  civil  engineer  and  a  professional  civil 
engineer  from  WPI.  After  joining  Ebasco  Serv- 
ices Inc.  in  1938,  he  served  the  firm  as  cadet 
engineer,  civil  engineer,  project  manager  for 
the  Far  East,  Far  East  representative,  chief  civil 
engineer  and  engineering  manager.  From  1965 
to  1977,  he  was  chairman,  president  and  chief 
executive  officer  of  Chemico,  an  Ebasco  affili- 
ate, in  New  York  City. 

While  directing  Ebasco  projects  in  Japan. 
Charlie  was  directly  responsible  for  the  design 
and  construction  of  the  Kamishuba  Arch  Dam, 
the  first  arch  dam  ever  constructed  in  the  Ori- 
ent. He  was  concerned  with  the  design  of  more 
than  200  thermoelectric,  hydroelectric  and 
nuclear-generative  stations  worldwide.  His 
many  publications  in  this  field  were  accepted  as 
instructional  and  authoritative. 

In  1969.  he  held  the  largest  number  of  state 
licenses  of  any  registered  engineer  in  the 
nation,  one  from  each  of  the  50  states  and  from 
Puerto  Rico,  the  District  of  Columbia  and  the 
Canal  Zone.  Charlie  told  friends  at  the  time, 
"It's  not  a  stunt.  I  get  these  licenses  because  we 
do  business  in  those  states." 

He  developed  the  operating  procedure  for  the 
Northwest  Power  Pool  to  meet  critical  war-time 
needs,  and  formed  the  first  consulting  and 
design  engineering  company  in  India.  Under 
his  leadership,  Chemico  designed  and  built 
plants  in  Japan,  India,  Taiwan.  Malaysia, 
China,  Pakistan,  Saudi  Arabia.  South  Africa, 
Libya,  Algeria,  Egypt,  Yugoslavia,  UK,  Vene- 
zuela, Mexico,  the  Soviet  Union,  Iran,  Fin- 
land. South  Korea  and  France.  During  a  ten- 
year  period,  Chemico  grew  from  a  S50  million 
a  year  business  to  a  $500  million  a  year 
business. 

From  1977  to  1982  he  had  a  private  consult- 
ing business  and  continued  his  engineering 
practice,  primarily  in  energy-related  fields. 
During  the  same  period,  he  was  a  founder  and 
first  president  of  Lighthouse  Realty,  negotiating 
the  sale  of  the  firm  to  Marathon  Oil.  Recently, 
he  was  a  consultant  for  Pinehurst  Corporation 
and  for  the  principals  of  the  Delta  Group. 

A  fellow  of  the  ASCE,  Charlie  also  was  a 
member  of  the  national  and  South  Carolina 
societies  of  Professional  Engineers,  the  Seis- 
mological  Society  of  America,  Japan  Atomic 
Industrial  Forum,  the  U.S.  Committee  on 
Large  Dams,  and  the  S.C.  Society  of  Civil 
Engineers.  He  also  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity.  Tau  Beta  Pi.  Skull  and  the 
Poly  Club. 

In  1966,  he  received  the  outstanding  leader- 
ship award  from  ASME.  He  was  the  recipient 
of  both  the  Goddard  Award  (1966)  and  the  Tay- 
lor Award  (1963)  from  WPI.  Active  in  alumni 
affairs,  he  had  served  as  a  member-at-large  of 
the  Executive  Committee  and  as  vice  president 
of  the  Alumni  Association,  and  as  a  member  of 
the  President's  Advisory  Council. 

In  spite  of  a  busy  professional  and  social 


schedule,  Charlie  always  found  time  for  his 
family.  He  had  a  real  zest  for  life  and  enjoyed 
playing  golf  and  bridge  and  cooking  for  guests 
at  home. 

At  Hilton  Head,  forever  modest.  Charlie  was 
viewed  by  friends  and  business  associates  as 
"one  of  the  great  men  on  the  island."  A  former 
realtor-associate.  Rick  Turner,  said,  "Charlie 
was  a  leader  and  helped  so  many  young  execu- 
tives. He  did  what  was  best  for  everyone,  more 
servant  than  a  master." 

Rick  Turner's  words  were  not  empty.  He  and 
five  other  young  realtors  whom  Charlie  had 
guided  to  success  were  his  pallbearers. 

George  B.  Cattermole,  '38,  of  Hamburg,  PA, 
passed  away  on  May  16,  1983.  A  native  of 
Passaic.  NJ,  he  was  bom  on  Jan.  17,  1917. 
Studying  electrical  engineering  at  WPI,  he 
graduated  from  the  U.S.  Naval  Academy  and 
held  an  MSEE  from  the  U.S.  Naval  Postgradu- 
ate School . 

From  1939  to  1969,  he  was  with  the  Navy, 
from  which  he  retired  as  a  captain.  Among 
other  places,  he  served  at  the  Defense  Atomic 
Support  Agency  in  Washington,  DC.  Later,  he 
became  a  self-employed  farmer  in  Hamburg. 

Mr.  Cattermole  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa,  IEEE  and  the  IRE,  and  he  was  active 
with  the  Boy  Scouts  and  Little  League. 

Lennart  Brune,  '40,  owner  of  Brune  Abrasive 
Service  Co.  Inc..  Denver,  PA,  died  in  Philadel- 
phia on  November  16,  1983.  He  was  66,  a 
native  of  Pittsfield,  MA,  and  a  mechanical 
engineer. 

Since  1948,  he  had  owned  the  Denver  abra- 
sives firm.  Formerly,  he  was  with  the  Carbo- 
rundum Co.,  Niagara  Falls,  NY.  He  belonged 
to  ATO  and  the  United  Church  of  Christ. 

F.  Warren  Crowley,  '41,  died  recently  in 
Toms  River,  NJ.  at  the  age  of  64.  He  was  bom 
in  Clinton,  MA. 

He  had  been  employed  by  the  Factory  Insur- 
ance Co.  Two  years  ago,  he  took  early  retire- 
ment from  Alexander  &  Alexander  Insurance 
Brokers  in  New  York  City,  where  he  was  vice 
president  and  manager  of  the  loss  department. 
He  had  been  with  the  firm  for  25  years. 

Mr.  Crowley  belonged  to  St.  Patrick's 
Church  and  the  Knights  of  Columbus. 

Dr.  Myer  Krulfeld,  '46,  of  Bethesda,  MD, 
passed  away  last  fall.  He  was  bom  in  Boston  on 
March  12,  1915. 

After  receiving  his  BS  in  chemistry  from 
WPI,  he  earned  a  PhD  from  the  University  of 
Illinois.  During  his  career,  he  was  an  assistant 
instructor  in  chemistry  and  physics  at  WPI  and 
a  research  chemist  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Research 
Laboratory  in  Washington,  DC. 

He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi  and 
the  American  Chemical  Society. 

Edward  G.  Tamulevich,  '46,  died  at  his  home 
in  Paxton,  MA,  last  December.  He  was  59  and 
a  Worcester  native. 

He  received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  He 
worked  for  the  vacuum  melt  division  of  Wyman 
Gordon  in  North  Grafton  and  for  the  Textron 
plant  (superintendent)  in  Lowell,  MA,  prior  to 
joining  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  He  retired  from 
Norton  in  1980  after  serving  as  supervisor  of 
building  maintenance  for  10  years. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta,  Our 


52       WPI  JOURNAL 


Lady  of  Vilna  Church  (Men's  Club  past  presi- 
dent), Lithuanian  Charitable  Society  and  Lithu- 
anian War  Veterans  Organization.  Also,  he  was 
active  with  the  Bishop's  Fund  and  the  Knights 
of  Lithuania.  He  had  been  chairman  of  the 
former  Paxton  Board  of  Public  Assistance.  In 
World  War  II,  he  was  a  Navy  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  and  Panama. 

Clay  B.  Wade,  '46,  of  Decatur,  GA,  died 
November  20,  1983,  at  the  age  of  57.  He  was 
born  in  Morehead  City,  NC. 

After  graduating  as  a  civil  engineer,  he  joined 
the  Southeastern  Underwriters'  Association  in 
Raleigh.  In  1950,  he  was  transferred  to  the 
home  office  in  Atlanta.  Later,  he  became  staff 
engineer  and  assistant  chief  engineer.  In  1969, 
he  was  named  administrative  assistant.  Most 
recently,  he  was  an  insurance  services  adminis- 
trator with  the  association. 

Mr.  Wade  had  served  as  chairman  of  the  fin- 
ishing-processes committee  of  the  National  Fire 
Protection  Association.  He  was  active  on 
American  Insurance  Association  committees, 
and  belonged  to  the  Georgia  Mineral  Society 
and  the  Cobb  County  Gem  and  Mineral  Club. 

Karl  H.  Kalbfleisch,  '51,  died  February  22, 
1984,  in  West  Haven,  CT,  following  a  long 
illness.  A  native  of  Newton,  MA,  he  was  born 
on  Aug.  31,  1925.  He  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI. 

Following  graduation,  he  was  employed  by 
Norton  Company  in  Worcester,  where  he  was 
involved  with  industrial-diamond  work  in  the 
R&D  department  and  with  the  dia-electric  heat- 
ing process,  a  forerunner  of  microwave  ovens. 
In  1967,  after  he  was  injured  in  an  electrical 
accident,  he  joined  the  Communications  Center 
in  Guilford  (CT)  Town  Hall  and  was  named 
communications  supervisor  and  director  of 
ambulance  services  for  the  town  in  1976. 

Mr.  Kalbfleisch  was  a  lifelong  radio  hobby- 
ist. His  call  sign,  W1XYB,  was  on  his  auto 
license  plate.  He  belonged  to  ATO.  During 
World  War  II,  he  was  in  the  Navy  V-12  pro- 
gram and  studied  at  Tufts  and  Bates.  Earlier,  he 
attended  MIT.  He  had  served  WPI  as  an  admis- 
sions counselor. 

George  F.  Whittle,  '52,  a  design  engineer  and 
retired  Navy  commander,  died  at  his  home  in 
North  Scituate,  MA,  on  January  2,  1984. 

He  was  born  in  Passaic,  NJ,  on  Jan.  20, 
1930.  and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI.  Prior 
to  founding  Whittle  Associates,  a  New  England 
design  and  plastic  sales  and  engineering  firm, 
he  had  been  employed  at  Waterbury  Manufac- 
turing Co.  and  the  Raytheon  Co.  A  Navy  vet- 
eran of  23  years,  he  trained  as  a  jet  pilot  in 
Pensacola,  FL.  He  had  served  as  a  scoutmaster 
for  the  BSA  for  many  years.  He  belonged  to  Phi 
Gamma  Delta. 

Thomas  R.  DeLuca,  Jr.,  '53,  of  Haverhill. 
MA.  died  September  6,  1983.  A  Haverhill 
native,  he  was  born  on  June  24,  1931.  He  grad- 
uated from  WPI  as  a  chemical  engineer  in 
1953. 

During  his  career,  he  was  an  officer  in  the 
U.S.  Navy,  an  engineer  for  Du  Pont  and  the 
Bristol  Company  and  a  mathematics  teacher  in 
West  Newbury,  MA,  Andover,  Danvers  and 
Chelmsford.  He  belonged  to  PKT  and  PDE. 

Henry  F.  Spadoni,  Jr.,  '55,  president  of  JDS 


Inc..  Springfield,  MA,  died  in  Westfield  on 
January  22.  1984.  at  the  age  of  51.  He  was  a 
native  of  Hopedale,  MA. 

He  received  his  BS  in  chemical  engineering 
from  WPI.  Following  employment  with  Mon- 
santo and  John  H.  Breck  Inc.,  he  served  as 
president  of  Customer  Savings  Corp.  and  as  a 
founder  of  Morgan  Homes,  before  he  formed 
JDS  Inc.  in  1979. 

He  was  a  past  president  of  the  Home  Builders 
Association,  former  member  of  the  Rotary 
Club,  and  he  belonged  to  the  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce and  St.  Thomas  the  Apostle  Church. 

He  belonged  to  the  Packaging  Institute,  as 
well  as  to  Phi  Kappa  Theta  and  PDE.  He  held 
an  MBA  from  Western  New  England  College 
and  had  served  with  the  Army. 

Roland  E.  Mason,  '59  SIM,  of  Worcester 
passed  away  recently.  He  was  born  in  Worces- 
ter on  August  14,  1923. 

He  had  been  plant  manager  for  Form  Roll 
Die  Corp.  in  Worcester. 

George  H.  Comeau,  '60  SIM,  died  at  his 
home   in  Whitinsville,   MA,   on  October  25, 

1983,  at  the  age  of  70.  A  native  of  Schenec- 
tady, NY,  he  attended  the  School  of  Industrial 
Management  at  WPI. 

Before  retiring  in  1976,  Mr.  Comeau  had 
been  superintendent  of  the  ATF-Davidson  divi- 
sion of  White  Consolidated  Industries  (formerly 
Whitin  Machine  Works).  He  graduated  from 
Notre  Dame  and  also  attended  Harvard  Law 
School. 

He  belonged  to  St.  Patrick's  parish.  For  many 
years,  he  was  active  with  a  local  Boy  Scout 
troop. 

Gerald  J.  Lyons,  '68  MNS,  former  head  of  the 
mathematics  department  at  North  Quincy  (MA) 
High  School,  died  December  10,  1983,  at  his 
home  in  Barnstable,  MA.  He  was  63  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Quincy.  In  1968,  he  gradu- 
ated with  his  master's  degree  in  natural  science 
from  WPI.  He  graduated  from  Harvard  and 
received  degrees  from  Boston  University  and 
Hartford  University  in  Connecticut. 

In  1982,  he  retired  as  head  of  the  math 
department  at  North  Quincy  High  School, 
where  he  had  taught  since  1970.  Formerly,  he 
had  taught  at  the  Manter  Hall  School  on  the 
Cape  and  in  Boston  and  at  Thayer  Academy  in 
Braintree. 

John  J.  Foran,  '75  SIM,  died  February  20, 

1984,  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  63.  He  was  a 
native  of  Worcester. 

In  1940,  he  graduated  from  New  England 
School  of  Accounting.  In  1980,  he  retired  as 
chief  accountant  in  the  grinding  wheel  division 
of  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  where  he  had  been 
employed  for  33  years. 


Correction 

In  the  May  1984  issue  of  the  Journal,  we 
mistakenly  reported  that  Paul  B.  Morgan 
(Jr.),  '30,  had  retired  as  chairman  of  the 
WPI  Board  of  Directors.  Paul  S.  Morgan 
is  the  correct  name  of  the  retiring  chair- 
man. Our  apologies  to  all  concerned. 


Notes  on  TOP  TEN 
Editor: 

The  author  endeavors  to  show  that  all 
numbers  were  not  created  equal  [Robert 
Kanigel.  "What's  the  No.  1  Number?", 
May  1984].  Some  rate  as  stars,  while 
others  remain  in  the  background.  He 
states,  "Number  nine  carries  the  flavor  of 
something  almost  true  but  not  quite,  of 
something  missing  incomplete.  Number 
nine  has  little  to  recommend  it." 

In  these  days  of  the  computer  the  author 
has  probably  forgotten  his  grammar  school 
tables  of  9's  and  the  method  of  checking  ad- 
ditions, subtractions  and  multiplications. 

The  claim  of  number  nine  for  1st  place 
over  the  other  numbers  is  based  on  the 
interesting  makeup  of  the  table  of  9's  and 
the  unique  use  of  a  number,  in  this  case  9, 
to  check  the  accuracy  of  addition,  subtrac- 
tion and  multiplication. 

No  other  table  of  numbers  shows  the 
uniformity  of  having  the  sum  of  the  digits 
equal  to  the  number  itself. 

No  other  number  has  similar  character- 
istics that  by  subtracting  a  number  from 
the  multiplier,  in  case  of  nines  1,  the  2nd 
digit  is  the  amount  to  equal  the  number, 
i.e.  multiplier:  3-l=2&7  =  27  =  9, 
4  x  9  =  36,  7  x  9  =  63. 

No  other  number  has  the  same  uniform- 
ity on  the  reversal  of  the  digits  in  its  table 
of  numbers  18  to  81,  36  to  63,  45  to  54, 
etc. 

Probably  the  outstanding  feature  which 
sets  it  apart  from  other  numbers  is  the  dis- 
carding the  sum  of  nine  as  a  check  on  the 
accuracy  of  accounting  in  addition,  sub- 
traction and  multiplication. 

Chester  N.  Inman.  '  14  ME 
Worcester,  MA 


The  "real"  world's  not  the 
only  thing  that's  changed* 

Come  on  back  to  discover 
who  and  what 
have  changed 
how  and  why 
since  the  reign  of 
your  class  at  WPL 


HOMECOMING  1984 

And  Reunion  for  the  classes  of  '64,  '69  and  '74» 

September  22,  1984 


WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC *^ INSTITUTE 


NOVEMBER  19& 


•I 


Great  Teaching 

ARL:  90  Years  of 
Going  with  the  Flow 

An  Orientation 
of  the  Mind 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  ^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  88,  NUMBER  2 

Staff  of  The  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Sports  Editor,  Gene  Blaum 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  William  J. 
Firla,  Jr.  '60,  chair;  Samuel  W.  Mencow, 
'37;  Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith 
Nitsch,  "75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College.  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-16,  33-48  ©1984 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI 
©  1984  the  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Design  and  Production 
Coordinator,  Amy  Doudiken;  Designer,  Allen 
Carroll;  Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown. 

Advisory  Board  for  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Richard  Kneedler;  Hartwick  College,  Merrilee 
Gomillion;  Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.J. 
Norris  and  Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Poly- 
technic Institute,  Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M. 
Whitaker;  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Donald  F.  Berth  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 

Acknowledgments: 

Typesetting,  BG  Composition,  Inc.;  Printing, 
American  Press,  Inc. 


Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor,  Tlie  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


NOVEMBER  1984 


4  Things  May  Never  Be  the 
Same  Again 

It's  an  orientation  of  the  mind— welcoming 
freshmen  and  their  parents  to  WPI. 
Kenneth  McDonnell 

8  90  Years  of  Going  with  the  Flow 

Or,  finding  out  just  how  deep  still  waters 
run,  at  Alden  Research  Laboratory. 
Michael  Shanley 

12  Faculty  Favorites 

Books,  that  is. 

I  Why  Teach? 

Carpenter,  bulldozer  mechanic— and  college 
professor.  The  writer  has  been  all  three. 
Peter  G.  Beidler 

V  Class  Acts 

A  look  at  four  professorial  styles. 
Joe  Levine 

XIII  No-Fault  Earthquakes 

Computer  modeling  provides  support. 
Ivars  Peterson 

33  Of  the  Waters  of  the  Earth 

The  pioneering  career  of  hydrologist 
Ray  K.  Linsley,  '37. 

34  The  Fastest  Hands  in  the  East 

A  profile  of  Professor  David  Cyganski,  '75. 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 
Class  Notes        36 
Completed  Careers       47 
Feedback        Inside  back  cover 


Page  4 


Page 


Page  I 


V 


Page  34 


Cover:  Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering  Carlton  Staples  is  a  "class  act" 
(see  page  V).  Photo  by  William  Denison.  Opposite:  What  better  way  to 
spend  a  sunny  Saturday  afternoon  in  the  autumn.  Photo  by  Michael  Carroll. 


NOVEMBER  1984        1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Thanks  a  million! 

For  the  first  time  ever,  the  WPI  Alumni 
Fund  raised  more  than  $1  million  in  gifts, 
surpassing  the  million-dollar  goal  estab- 
lished by  the  Alumni  Fund  Board. 

In  celebrating  the  triumphant  climax  of 
this  year's  annual  campaign.  Fund  Board 
Chairman  Gerald  Finkle,  '57,  exclaimed, 
"It's  always  a  pleasure  to  bring  good 
news!  So  it's  with  gratitude  that  I  report 
this  milestone  in  the  history  of  the  Alumni 
Fund.  More  than  5,800  alumni  contributed 
a  total  of  $1,007,873  to  WPI,  setting  new 
records  for  both  dollars  and  donors."  This 
is  an  astounding  19-percent  jump  over  the 
amount  raised  in  the  1982-83  Fund  Year. 
The  year's  average  gift  of  $173  and  the 
40.97-percent  participation  rate  are  both 
well  above  the  national  averages. 

Another  highlight  of  the  Fund  was  an 
increase  from  78  to  123  in  the  number  of 
donors  who  contributed  $1,500  or  more 
and  in  so  doing  joined  the  President's 
Advisory  Council.  What  is  more,  the  anni- 
versary classes  of  1934,  '44  and  '59  con- 
tributed more  than  $520,000,  $350,000 
more  than  any  other  Fund  program.  And 
the  Class  of  '59  had  a  whopping  94-per- 
cent participation  rate!  In  terms  of  partici- 
pation among  non-anniversary  classes,  the 
Class  of  1938  had  the  highest  rate;  six  out 
of  10  alumni  contributed  from  this  class. 
The  classes  of  1940  and  '37  were  only  a 
few  percentage  points  behind.  The  Class 
of  1980  boasts  the  most  donors,  followed 
by  the  classes  of  1973  and  '74.  And  the 
largest  class  gifts  from  other  than  anniver- 
sary classes  were  received  from  the  classes 
of  1942,  '38  and  '39,  in  descending  order. 

Additional  good  news  is  that  for  the 
fifth  time  in  six  years,  WPI  has  won 
the  U.S.  Steel-CASE  (Council  for  the 
Advancement  and  Support  of  Education) 
Award  for  Sustained  Excellence  in  alumni 
giving,  the  premier  award  in  this  field. 
Only  Gustavus  Adolphus  College  boasts  a 
better  record,  and  only  the  alumni  giving 
performances  of  Dartmouth  College,  the 
University  of  Michigan  and  Siena  College 


Gerald  Finkle ,  '5  7  ME,  Fund  Board 
Chairman. 

equals  the  generosity  of  WPI  alumni. 

"The  credit  for  this  string  of  successes," 
notes  Finkle,  "rests  with  the  loyal  and 
generous  support  of  our  alumni  and  the 
efforts  of  the  1,200  graduates  and  student 
volunteers  who  personally  contacted  the 
WPI  alumni  body.  Thanks  must  also  go  to 
past  volunteers  and  Fund  Board  members, 
whose  work  laid  the  groundwork  for  this 
year's  success." 

Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch,  president  of 
WPI,  offered  an  interesting  perspective 
when  news  of  the  Fund's  landmark 
achievement  reached  his  office:  "You 
know,  when  we  approach  corporations  and 
foundations  for  support  of  WPI,  the 
breadth  and  depth  of  our  alumni  involve- 
ment, as  evidenced  by  the  uninterrupted 
Alumni  Fund  giving,  is  often  the  deciding 
factor  in  winning  such  support.  This 
alumni  involvement  is  a  ringing  endorse- 
ment that  proclaims  to  students,  parents 
and  prospective  donors  alike  that  to  belong 
to  the  WPI  community  is  to  join  a  special 
group  indeed." 

In  May  1984,  Alumni  Fund  Managing 
Director  Sharon  C.  Davis  resigned  to 
become  Director  of  Development  of  the 


Bancroft  School,  Worcester.  During  her 
six-year  tenure  at  WPI,  the  college  was 
awarded  five  of  its  total  of  seven  presti- 
gious CASE-U.S.  Steel  awards.  She  is 
succeeded  by  Craig  L.  Esposito,  former 
Associate  Director  of  Development  at 
Harvard  University. 


Washburn  reborn:  Yankee 
ingenuity  lives  on. 

In  1869,  when  the  Washburn  Shops 
opened  its  doors  to  students  at  the  new 
Worcester  County  Free  Institute  of  Indus- 
trial Science,  the  building  was,  as  benefac- 
tor Ichabod  Washburn  had  intended,  a 
place  where  young  men  could  learn  a  trade 
in  an  environment  that  schooled  them  in 
the  most  modern  techniques  of  factory 
production.  In  fact,  under  the  direction  of 
Milton  P.  Higgins  and  George  I.  Alden 
(later  to  co-found  the  Norton  Company) 
the  Shops  became  a  prosperous  business 
as  well  as  the  embodiment  of  Mr. 
Washburn's  dream.  For  almost  85  years, 
the  Shops  brought  additional  income  to  the 
college,  with  students  designing  and  pro- 
ducing drawing  tables,  lathes,  bench 
grinders  and  even  hydraulic  elevators. 

Meanwhile,  Templeton  tinmaker  John 
Boynton  had  offered  to  give  his  life's  sav- 
ings to  establish  a  school  with  goals  com- 
plementary to  those  of  Worcester's  Icha- 
bod Washburn.  He  had  long  foreseen  the 
need  for  a  school  where  bright  young  men 
could  be  educated  to  take  their  places  in 
the  management  ranks  of  America's  indus- 
trial might. 

Throughout  the  last  twelve  decades, 
Boynton  and  Washburn— the  men  and  the 
distinctive  buildings  they  erected— have 
stood  tall  on  the  hill  overlooking  down- 
town Worcester  from  the  west.  And  the 
Two  Towers  tradition  that  these  sagacious 
men's  intentions  established,  though  modi- 
fied somewhat  to  accommodate  today's 
educational,  professional  and  societal 
needs,  continues  to  define  the  mission  of 


WPI  JOURNAL 


the  college  through  the  WPI  Plan. 

Though  the  original  facades  of  both 
Boynton  Hall  and  the  Washburn  Shops  and 
Laboratories  still  stand,  both  rugged  old 
structures  have  been  reborn.  In  1978,  fol- 
lowing a  complete  renovation,  Boynton 
was  rededicated.  And  as  we  went  to  press, 
contractors  were  putting  the  final  touches 
on  a  massive  revitalization  and  expansion 
of  the  Washburn  complex,  at  a  cost  of 
about  $4  million. 

WPI  has  named  a  new  Washburn  lecture 
hall  in  honor  of  life  trustee  Milton  P.  Hig- 
gins,  in  recognition  of  the  leadership  he 
has  provided  the  college  for  nearly  three 
decades.  A  past  president  of  Norton  Com- 
pany, he  is  the  son  of  Aldus  Higgins,  '93, 
who  bequeathed  his  estate— the  Higgins 
House— to  WPI. 

Rededication  has  been  set  for  October 
18-20  and  is  to  include  a  symposium  on 
such  topics  as  national  productivity,  engi- 
neering education  and  the  technology 
needs  of  higher  education.  A  panel  of 
national  authorities  on  these  subjects  wHl 
participate.  Completion  of  this  construc- 
tion project  marks  the  final  element  of 
WPI's  $17.5  million  Capital  Program. 

Look  for  more  details  on  Washburn  and 
the  rededication  of  this  second  of  WPI's 
Two  Towers  in  the  February  1985  issue  of 
the  WPI  Journal. 


President  Cranch  Will 
Resign  to  Head  Wang 
Institute 

Just  hours  before  press  time,  Dr.  Edmund 
T.  Cranch  announced  his  decision  to 
resign  as  president  of  WPI  to  become  pres- 
ident of  the  five-year-old  Wang  Institute  of 
Graduate  Studies  in  Tyngsboro,  MA.  The 
resignation  is  effective  June  30,  1985. 
Cranch  will  succeed  Dr.  An  Wang, 
founder  and  current  president  of  the  Insti- 
tute and  head  of  Wang  Laboratories  Inc. 
Cranch  will  lead  one  of  the  nation's 


newest  graduate  schools.  An  independent, 
non-profit  educational  institution,  Wang 
Institute  pursues  a  dual  mission:  to  provide 
the  professional  graduate  education  neces- 
sary to  meet  the  demands  of  industrial 
software  development,  and  to  help  allevi- 
ate the  acute  nationwide  shortage  of  highly 
skilled  software  specialists. 

Cranch  has  already  contributed  to  Wang 
Institute  as  a  member  of  its  Board  of  Trust- 
ees, as  an  ex-officio  member  of  the 
school's  National  Advanced  Advisory 
Committee,  and  as  a  former  member  of 
the  Institute  Advisory  Committee. 

In  an  open  letter  to  the  WPI  community, 
Cranch  said,  "I  am  certain  you  can  appre- 
ciate the  internal  turmoil  and  wrestling  I 
went  through  in  making  a  decision.  In  the 
end  it  was  my  instinct  to  pursue  another 
institution  building  challenge  .  .  .  which 
prevailed." 

Cranch  joined  WPI  as  president  in  1978. 
A  search  committee,  headed  by  Trustee 
vice  chairman  Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr., 
'44,  will  be  named  soon,  according  to 
Trustee  chairman  Howard  G.  Freeman, 
'40. 

The  next  issue  of  WPI  Newsbriefs ,  to  be 
published  in  late  November,  will  contain 
more  complete  details  of  the  Cranch  deci- 
sion, but  we  did  want  to  bring  you  this 
historic  news  as  soon  as  possible. 


At  a  reception  hosted  by  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Edmund  T.  Cranch  on  August  26,  these  alumni  families  and  their  Class  of  1988  son  or  daughter 
posed  for  a  photo  outside  of  Boynton  Hall.  In  all,  151  freshmen  of  the  683-member  class  are  related  to  WPI  alumni.  Congratulations 
to  these  members  of  the  growing  WPI  community — new  and  old-er. 


NOVEMBER  1984 


Things  May 

Never  Be 
The  Same  Again 

When  the  Class  of  1988  arrived  on  campus  this  fall,  many  of  their 

questions — and  their  qualms — had  already  been  put  to  rest,  thanks  to 

perhaps  the  most  imaginative  orientation  program  in  the  nation. 


■Hi.  Mom.  It'sme  .  .  .  Oh,  OK .  .  .  Yeah 
.  .  .  How's  Dad?  .  .  .  Aw,  that 's  great! .  .  . 
Yeah  .  .  .  Me  ?  Well,  not  so  good,  actually 
.  .  .  Yeah  .  .  .  Y'see,  I  got  a  37  on  my  first 
physics  exam  .  .  .  But  the  class  average 
was  only  52  .  .  .  Yeah ,  I  know  I  was  good 
in  science  in  high  school,  but  things  are 
different  here.  It's  not  like  I  thought  it 
would  be.  Maybe  I  made  the  wrong  choice 
of  majors.  There 's  so  much  pressure 
here — in  class,  and  out,  too— from  my 
friends.  You  know. " 

So  goes  the  first  phone  call  to  the  folks 
at  home.  On  consider  another  freshman's 
first  weekend  back  at  home  when,  upon 
announcing  to  Dad  that  he's  "going  out  for 
a  while."  the  Old  Man  lays  down  the  law. 
letting  Junior  know  in  no  uncertain  terms 
that  midnight  remains,  as  it  had  been  in 
high  school,  the  young  man's  curfew . 

"But.  Dad."  Junior  counters,  "at  col- 
lege I  can  take  care  of  myself!"  Finally, 
after  10  minutes  of  the  young  man's  best 
attempts  to  change  his  father's  mind,  the 
coffin  is  nailed  shut:  "This  discussion." 
father  shouts,  "is  over!" 

Realistic  situations?  Or  are  we  viewing 
episodes  intentionally  overdramatized  to 
make  a  point? 

Probably  more  the  latter,  if  the  truth  be 
known.  For  what  they  are.  actually,  are 
role-play  exercises,  staged  by  members  of 
The  Masque.  WPI's  student  drama  soci- 
ety, for  the  benefit  of  incoming  WPI  fresh- 
men and  their  parents.  These  and  other 
mini-dramas— some  live,  some  video- 
taped—along with  a  host  of  other  presenta- 
tions,  no-holds-barred  discussions  and 


By  Kenneth  McDonnell 


academic  department  exposure,  are  the 
makings  of  WPI's  award-winning  Orienta- 
tion—"O"  for  short.  And  when  they  are 
played  out  before  curious  and  often  appre- 
hensive freshman  families— well,  they  can 
have  a  real  impact  on  students'  and  par- 
ents' adjustment  to  that  ineffable  commod- 
ity called  higher  education. 

"The  whole  idea  behind  Orientation." 
says  Bernard  H.  Brown.  Dean  of  Students 
and  the  creative  force  behind  the  program, 
"is  not  only  to  introduce  the  newest  mem- 
bers of  the  WPI  community  to  the  college 
itself,  but  perhaps  more  importantly,  to 
give  them  a  glimpse  of  the  kinds  of 


A  "veteran  "father  who  sent  his  second 
son  to  WPI  this  fall  gives  other  parents  his 
perspective  on  the  WPI  experience. 


changes  that  both  students  and  parents  can 
expect  as  a  result  of  entering  WPI— or  any 
other  college,  for  that  matter." 

Addressing  the  details  of  what  it  takes  to 
succeed  at  WPI  is  not  a  trivial  endeavor. 
For  Brown,  the  logistics— handling  the 
200-plus  freshmen  and  their  parents  who 
come  for  one  of  the  three  sessions  in  June, 
housing  them  overnight  in  campus  resi- 
dence halls,  recruiting  and  training  his  35 
student  Orientation  leaders,  and  arranging 
for  faculty  and  staff  involvement— take 
time  and  unending  attention  to  detail. 

Yet  it's  the  Orientation  leaders,  or  "O- 
Team"— an  elite  corps  of  upperclassmen, 
some  of  them  only  a  year  into  their  own 
college  careers— who  are  the  lifeblood  of 
Orientation.  For  the  36  or  so  hours  that 
freshman  families  are  on  campus,  mem- 
bers of  the  O-Team  play  host,  facilitate 
group  discussions  and  become  resident 
experts,  each  leading  a  group  of  30  or  so 
visitors  through  the  nearly  25  presenta- 
tions, discussions,  receptions  and  tours 
that  are  packed  into  the  program. 

"Sure."  says  the  O-Team  s  Sean 
McShea,  a  sophomore  industrial  engineer- 
ing major  from  Worcester,  "it's  a  big  com- 
mitment. We  spend  six  months  in  training 
and  working  at  Orientation,  but  we're  all 
friends  when  it's  over,  and  the  excitement 
Orientation  generates  in  freshman  families 
makes  it  a  good  experience  for  us— even 
when  you  have  to  give  up  the  last  weekend 
of  the  summer." 

Adds  O-Teammate  Lori  Freeman,  a 
chemical  engineering  senior  from 
Stoughton,  MA,  "It's  neat  when  the  fresh- 


WPI  JOURNAL 


men  actually  get  here  for  classes.  Often 
they  come  up  to  me  and  say.  "I  remember 
you  from  Orientation.  Can  you  help  me 
with  .  .  '  this  or  that  concern  that's  still 
new  to  them." 

The  O-Team  embraces  a  cross  section  of 
the  student  population— campus  leaders, 
fraternity  members  and  independents,  ath- 
letes, students  from  all  academic  depart- 
ments. Meanwhile,  "official"  information 
and  answers  to  concerns  academic  and 
institutional  flow  through  a  well-orches- 
trated, intensive  series  of  seminars,  work- 
shops and  informal  chats  led  by  deans, 
faculty  and  professional  staff.  Humanities 
Prof.  Kent  Ljungquist.  for  example, 
explains  to  parents  and  later  to  students 
what  the  Humanities  Sufficiency  is  all 
about.  Prof.  Joseph  Bagshaw  introduces 
incoming  Biology  and  Biotechnology  stu- 
dents to  his  department.  Janet  Richardson. 
Associate  Dean  of  Students,  leads  a  ses- 
sion dubbed  '"The  Living  End  and  The 
Three  R's:  Rights.  Roommates  and 
Responsibilities."  Director  of  Graduate 
and  Career  Planning  William  Trask 
addresses  what  the  job  market  may  hold 
four  years  hence.  In  all.  some  25  faculty 
and  15  staff  members  introduce  their  par- 


"Orientation  gave  me  the  feeling 

that  the  faculty  really  care  about 

my  future." 

—From  a  student. 

"It  was  fun  to  stay  in  the  residence 

hall  where  my  daughter  will  be 

living." 

—From  a  parent. 

ticular  specialties  to  the  freshman  families. 

Says  Dr.  James  E.  Groccia.  Director  of 
the  Student  Counseling  Center.  "Orienta- 
tion is  a  vital  cog  in  the  academic  wheel, 
for  both  educational  and  psychological 
reasons."  Educational,  he  says.  by  intro- 
ducing students  and  parents  to  the  system. 
Psychological,  by  forming  an  attachment 
to  the  college.  With  the  help  of  O-Team 
members.  Groccia  leads  separate  work- 
shops with  students  and  parents  on  the 
transition  from  high  school  to  college  life. 

"This  transition."  he  asserts,  "is  one  of 
the  most  crucial  in  any  person's  attach- 
ment-separation life  cycle."  Research  has 
shown,  he  adds,  that  most  college  drop- 
outs have  failed  to  form  a  meaningful  psy- 
cho-social  attachment  with  the  institution 
they  leave. 

Groccias  Orientation  sessions  address 
the  concerns  which  he  and  his  Counseling 
Center  staff  deal  with  most  frequently: 
loneliness,  family  changes,  academic  and 
peer  pressures,  and  the  ups  and  downs— 
the  exhilaration  and  the  anxiety  —  which 
can  grip  nearly  all  college  students,  espe- 
cially freshmen  leaving  behind  all  that  is 
familiar  to  commence  upon  the  next  phase 
of  their  li\es 

Typically,  he  says,  students  spend  only 


20  to  25  percent  of  their  time  in  classes 
and  labs.  The  other  80  percent  finds  them 
studying,  pursuing  extracurricular  inter- 
ests, watching  General  Hospital.  And  its 
often  the  choices  they  make  now.  in  the 
midst  of  pressures  tugging  at  them  from  all 
sides,  that  can  help  sculpt  the  quality  of 
their  lives  for  years  to  come. 

Meanwhile,  back  home,  changes  are  in 
the  works,  too.  though  often  they  are  not 
so  obvious.  "The  family  is  a  system. 
Groccia.  When  one  of  its  parts  changes— 
in  this  case,  a  daughter  or  son  leaves  for 
college— the  rest  of  the  parts  will  probably 
change  to  varying  degrees.  "Don't  be  sur- 
prised." he  advises  students,  "if  Mom  and 
Dad's  and  your  siblings'  relationships 
change  when  you  lea\e.  They  may  plan 
events  like  vacations  without  you  from 
now  on.  Or  may  be  they'll  make  your  room 
into  a  study  or  guest  room  they  always 
wanted."  Remember,  he  adds,  starting  col- 
lege means  a  lot  more  than  just  coming  up 
with  the  tuition. 

To  be  sure.  Orientation  has  a  lighter  side. 
a  characteristic  that  foretells  w  hat  for  most 
students  is  a  vital  but  subtle  part  of  college 
life's  "learning  curve."  For  example, 
there's   one   O-Team   member's   good- 


+  t 


O-Team  members  pose  outside  Higgins  House  last  spring. 


NOVEMBER  1984 


natured  recollections  of  his  first  room- 
mate's foibles.  Then  there's  the  WPI 
Tonight  Show,  a  wildly  funny  take-off  on 
Johnny  Carson's  late-night  television 
mainstay,  hosted  by  professional  comic 
Tom  Parks.  Here,  "guests"  such  as  Stu- 
dent Government  and  Interfraternity 
Council  representatives,  a  Campus  Police 
officer  and  a  residence  hall  advisor  play 
along  with  Parks's  antics  while  giving 
their  Harrington  Auditorium  audience  a 
rundown  of  their  organizations'  functions 
and  how  students  can  get  involved.  It's  an 
ingenious  way  of  entertaining,  informing 
and  easing  freshmen  into  the  mainstream. 

"In  each  of  Orientation's  four  years," 
says  Brown,  "we've  tried  to  bring  in  inno- 
vative ways  of  getting  lots  of  information 
to  lots  of  students  and  parents  in  a  short 
period  of  time,  hopefully  without  thrash- 
ing them  with  boring  lectures." 

Yet  all  is  not  fun  and  games.  In  his  fast- 
moving  talk  on  WPI's  computer  science 
curriculum,  for  example,  Prof.  James 
Coggins  advises  students  against  running 
out  to  buy  a  personal  computer  just 
because  they're  about  to  enter  WPI. 
"Spend  your  time  now  trying  to  write  a 
decent  paragraph,  or  learning  to  read  the 
newspaper  critically,"    he   tells   them. 


'In  the  future,  please  tell  parents 

and  students  how  much  we  got 

out  of  it." 

—From  a  parent. 

'Now,  I'm  more  confident  about 

attending  WPI  in  the  fall." 

—From  a  student. 


"because  I  just  don't  have  the  time,  the 
patience  or  the  inclination  to  teach  you 
how  to  think."  In  another  session,  Dean 
John  van  Alstyne  tells  parents  in  hard, 
cold  terms  that  even  for  the  most  gifted 
students,  WPI  is  not  likely  to  be  a  cake- 
walk.  He  relates  war  stories  of  courses 
failed,  of  dreams  become  disillusion,  but 
stories,  too,  of  students  who  have  crossed 
sometimes  staggering  hurdles  after  stum- 
bling at  the  start.  Later,  he  tells  students 
the  same  things.  For  both  groups,  the  talk 
both  humbles  and  inspires. 

"You  don't  accomplish  anything,"  van 
Alstyne  contends,  "by  glossing  over  the 
facts.  All  we  can  tell  them  is  that  WPI  will 
be  tough,  that  social  and  perhaps  romantic 
pressures  will  as  likely  as  not  distract  them 
from  the  real  reason  they're  here.  But  we 
can  also  assure  them  that  there  are  people 
here  to  help."  For  students  and  parents 
alike,  Orientation  is  a  chance  to  begin 
forming  a  network  of  resources  as  well  as 
to  meet  peers,  faculty  and  the  larger  WPI 
community.  "Parents  need  to  know  almost 
as  much  about  WPI  as  their  sons  or  daugh- 
ters do,"  van  Alstyne  says.  "They  need  to 
know  our  terminology,  like  MQP,  IS/P, 
IQP  as  well  as  our  grading  system  and 
degree  requirements."  Only  twice  in  four 


years,  he  says,  have  parents  told  him  that 
his  no-nonsense  seminar  turned  them  off 
to  WPI. 

Cheryl  Delay  is  a  sophomore  mechanical 
engineering  major  from  Bennington,  NH, 
and  a  first-time  O-Team  member.  Of  the 
entering  freshmen  she  got  to  know  through 
Orientation,  she  says,  "They're  great!  but 
so  .  .  .  well  .  .  .  young,  I  guess."  And  as 
soon  as  the  words  are  out  of  her  mouth, 
she  blushes  with  the  realization  that  she, 
too,  was  one  of  the  "so  young"  just  a  short 
year  earlier. 

"You  can  see  changes  in  the  freshmen 
during  the  weekend  alone,"  adds  Karen 
Reardon,  a  junior  from  East  Bridgewater, 
MA.  Karen,  like  about  a  quarter  of  the  O- 
Team,  has  served  for  two  years  as  an  Ori- 
entation leader.  "Some  freshmen  arrive 
scared  and  apprehensive,"  she  says,  "but 
by  Sunday  afternoon,  they  can't  wait  to 
come  back  in  the  fall." 

There's  a  special  esprit  de  corps  that 
develops  on  the  O-Team.  It's  a  closeness 
built  on  mutual  respect  and  the  result  of 
days,  weeks  and  months  of  what  can  only 
be  called  rigorous  training.  In  January,  as 
any  good  coach  does,  Bernie  Brown 
begins  gathering  his  team,  relying  on 


Meeting  the  faculty:  Professor  Lenn  Kupferberg  gives  freshman  families  a  tour  of  a  Physics  Department  lab  (above  left),  and  Dean 
John  van  Alstyne  speaks  to  parents  on  academics  at  WPI. 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


interviews  and  the  input  of  professors  and 
counselors  who  know  the  recruits.  And  in 
spite  of  the  fact  that  the  team  plays  for 
free,  more  than  80  students  applied  this 
year  for  the  35  spots  on  the  roster. 

Brown  makes  his  selections,  and  the 
team  gets  down  to  business,  meeting 
weekly  with  faculty,  deans  and  staff  and  in 
March  retreating  for  a  long  weekend  off 
campus  at  nearby  Barlin  Acres.  Here,  the 
tightness  of  the  group  really  takes  hold,  as 
students  with  a  variety  of  backgrounds, 
personalities  and  academic  interests  role- 
play  situations  likely  to  occur  in  Orienta- 
tion, learn  how  to  handle  the  tough  ques- 
tions they  may  face,  talk  candidly  about 
themselves,  share  the  cooking  and  other 
chores,  and,  of  course,  socialize  together. 
It's  here  also  that  the  coach  begins  to 
see  which  individuals  will  work  best 
together— be  it  for  one  of  those  videotaped 
mini-dramas,  for  a  question  and  answer 
session,  or  for  leading  a  discussion  group 
with  students  or  parents. 

Later,  in  the  spring.  Brown  requires  that 
each  team  member  complete  Oral  Com- 
munication Specialist  Kay  Draper's  four- 
week  course  at  WPI.  This  serves  as  a  final 
but  non-trivial  warmup  for  the  role  of  host 
that  he'll   play   throughout  Orientation. 


"It  was  exhausting,  but  well  worth 

not  missing  a  thing." 

—From  a  parent. 

"Totally  awesome!" 
—From  a  student,  of  course. 


Mrs.  Draper's  class  is  a  piece  of  O  training 
that  members  almost  without  exception 
recall  fondly.  Says  Jean  Kelly,  a  senior 
mathematics  major  from  Natick,  MA. 
"Even  though  we  didn't  always  realize  it, 
we  were  using  every  bit  of  that  training." 

Nearly  all  colleges  offer  some  sort  of 
freshmen  orientation.  The  focus  can  be  on 
academic  advising  and  registration.  It  can 
be  topical:  one  large  university,  for  exam- 
ple, spent  three  days  addressing  with  stu- 
dents and  parents  their  roles  in  a  world 
hounded  by  the  threat  of  nuclear  annihila- 
tion. Or  it  can  touch  on  some  combination 
of  scholastic,  social  and  secular  elements. 

But  WPI  orientation,  says  Brown,  is 
different.  "It  has  to  be,  simply  because  the 
WPI  Plan— its  curricula,  its  grading,  its 
project  emphasis,  its  calendar— is  so  dif- 
ferent from  conventional  educational 
programs." 

Look  at  the  reaction  from  other  colleges 
to  WPI's  orientation  design.  Last  year,  at 
the  national  conference  of  the  300-school 
National  Orientation  Directors  Associa- 
tion, WPI  was  awarded  top  honors  for  ori- 
entation program  materials.  Karen  Rear- 
don  accompanied  Brown  and  three  other 
O-team  members  to  the  conference.  After 
an  airing  of  a  videotape  of  the  WPI  Tonight 


Show,  she  recalls,  "We  were  flooded  with 
questions  about  our  format.  Most  often, 
though,  people  wanted  to  know  how  we 
'entertain'  students  and  parents."  Appar- 
ently, she  adds,  a  good  many  schools  look 
at  orientation  as  a  perfunctory  ritual. 

As  often  as  not,  says  counselor  Groccia, 
it's  parents  who  get  the  most  out  of  Orien- 
tation, a  program  that  has  become,  for  all 
practical  purposes,  required  fare  for  enter- 
ing freshmen  and  strongly  recommended 
for  their  folks.  After  all,  he  says,  there  is  a 
special  partnership  parents  have  built  with 
the  daughter  or  son  they  are  sending  out 
into  the  world,  often  for  the  first— and 
last— time. 

Yet  in  his  talks  with  parents,  Groccia 
urges  them  to  encourage  in  their  son  or 
daughter,  for  the  next  four  years,  what  he 
calls  positive  selfishness.  "Say  to  your 
child:  'Here  are  four  years  and  $40,000. 
Go  and  learn  something.  Don't  worry 
about  us;  we'll  take  care  of  ourselves. 
Take  on  some  new  challenges.  Start  a  pro- 
fession. Feed  your  head.  Become  some- 
body.' "  For  most  students,  he  asserts,  this 
may  be  their  last  opportunity  to  be  posi- 
tively selfish.  "For  some  parents,  it  may 
be  their  first  chance  to  allow  it." 


Getting  to  know  you  .  .  .  on  Beechtree  circle  between  Orientation  sessions. 


NOVEMBER  1984       7 


90  Years  of  Going 

with  the  Flow 

Alden  Research  Laboratory  Celebrates  a  Grand  History 
and  Prepares  for  the  Challenges  of  the  Future 

By  Michael  Shanley 


The  white  Styrofoam  balls  stretch 
from  the  shore  to  the  horizon,  rows 
and  rows  of  them  perched  atop  the 
calm  water  of  the  bay  in  perfect  symmetri- 
cal order. 

Attached  to  each  of  the  500  or  so  balls  is 
a  temperature  sensor.  In  the  soft  sand 
beneath  the  surface  of  the  water,  a  series  of 
blue  and  red  wires  run  from  the  sensors  to 
the  shore.  On  the  beach  the  wires  meet  to 
form  a  spaghetti-like  tangle  that  vanishes 
beneath  a  wooden  walkway  before  reap- 
pearing in  the  control  center  that  overlooks 
the  bay. 

Inside  the  control  center  the  wires  attach 
to  a  computer  system  that  scans  1 8  sensors 
per  second.  A  video  terminal  displays  the 
temperature  at  each  sensor  while  another 
part  of  the  automatic  data  acquisitions  sys- 
tem provides  a  continuous  series  of  tem- 
perature printouts. 

At  issue  here  is  the  effect  the  discharge 
of  warm  water  from  a  nuclear  power  plant 
will  have  on  the  water  of  the  bay.  Tidal 
currents  that  reverse  direction  and  change 
in  intensity  as  they  near  the  shore  compli- 
cate the  picture. 

Perhaps  the  oddest  thing  about  this  bay, 
though,  is  that  no  fish  swim  in  it.  Nor  is  it 
ever  rained  on.  Direct  sunlight  never  hits 
it.  Even  at  its  deepest  point  the  water  is 
just  9  or  10  inches  deep.  The  entire  bay,  in 
fact,  measures  just  81  by  167  feet.  What's 
more,  it's  all  indoors,  inside  one  of  the 
huge  test  facility  buildings  at  the  20-acre 
Alden  Research  Laboratory  (ARL)  in 
Holden,  MA,  five  miles  from  the  main 
WPI  campus. 

ARL,  which  this  year  celebrates  its  90th 
birthday,  has  for  years  enjoyed  worldwide 
renown  for  its  construction  of  elaborate 
physical  models  made  of  concrete, 
fiberglass,  wood,  sand,  steel  or  plastic. 
The  lab  has  simulated  the  workings  of 
power  stations,  rivers,  dams,  spillways, 
breakwaters,  shorelines,  intakes  and 
pumps  to  provide  clients— usually  a  utility 
or  an  international  engineering  firm — with 


mmmm 

The  instrument  room,  which  overlooks  the  huge  modeling  area,  is  used  for  studies  like 
the  one  of  a  Taiwan  power  system.  From  left  are  the  minicomputer  and  digital  volt- 
meter; the  video  terminal,  which  displays  real-time  temperatures  in  the  model;  and  the 
automatic  controllers  for  building  atmosphere  and  sump  water  temperature. 


the  information  they  need  to  determine 
how  best  to  proceed  with  a  proposed  proj- 
ect or  how  best  to  solve  an  existing  prob- 
lem. 

The  water  temperature  study  mentioned 
above  offers  a  good  example.  The  client  is 
Taiwan  Power  Company;  the  bay  is  on  the 
north  coast  of  Taiwan.  ARL  was  hired  last 
year  to  look  at  the  temperature  patterns 
created  by  the  discharge  of  10,000  cubic 
feet  per  second  of  warm  water  into  the 
bay.  Of  primary  importance  is  recircula- 
tion. With  roughly  a  two-kilometer  dis- 
tance between  the  point  of  discharge  and 
the  point  of  intake,  it  is  vital  that  the  water 
coming  back  into  the  plant  not  be  too 
warm.  As  ARL  Assistant  Director 
Dominique  N.  Brocard  explains,  there  is  a 
lot  at  stake. 

"Even  a  one  degree  Fahrenheit  increase 
in  the  temperature  of  the  water  coming 
into  the  plant  could  cost  as  much  as  $2.5 
million  a  year,  because  the  efficiency  of 
the  plant  would  drop  dramatically,"  he 
says. 

In  addition  to  scanning  the  temperature 


sensors,  the  computer  system  ARL  is 
using  for  this  study  controls  the  inflow  and 
outflow  to  the  model  to  simulate  the  tidal 
currents.  The  hour-long  tests,  which  cover 
one  "real  world"  tide  cycle,  proceed  with 
virtually  no  human  interference. 

After  the  lab  has  completed  its  tests, 
Taiwan  Power  will  be  able  to  choose  from 
several  options.  Perhaps  they  will  need  to 
reverse  the  intake  and  discharge  points, 
change  the  speed  of  discharge,  move  it 
farther  offshore  or  build  a  dike  between 
intake  and  discharge  points. 

While  the  work  ARL  does  now  is  decid- 
edly high-tech,  models  built  in  the  past 
were  no  less  impressive.  In  the  late  1950s, 
for  example,  ARL  built  a  1  to  50  scale 
model  of  the  Niagara  Falls  power  project. 
The  600-foot  long,  L-shaped  model  was 
commissioned  by  the  New  York  State 
Power  Authority  to  check  the  effects  of  a 
proposed  system  that  would  take  in  water 
above  the  falls,  carry  it  in  twin  conduits 
four  miles  under  the  city,  and,  finally, 
dump  it  into  a  canal  that  would  carry  the 
water  to  a  projected  power  station. 


8       WPI  JOURNAL 


In  1969,  ARL  modeled  a  17-mile  stretch 
of  the  Hudson  River  for  Con  Edison  to 
determine  how  the  warmed  water  from  the 
Indian  Point  nuclear  reactors  would  flow 
as  the  tides  changed.  That  was  the  first  of  a 
series  of  models  studying  Indian  Point, 
including  one  that  is  currently  set  up  to 
study  the  movement  offish  in  the  affected 
area. 

ARL  has  also  modeled  the  Patuxent 
River  on  Chesapeake  Bay,  the  Mississippi 
and  Colorado  rivers,  the  Euphrates  in  Tur- 
key, the  Rio  Grande  in  Brazil  and  the  Palo 
Seco  near  San  Juan,  Puerto  Rico,  to  name 
just  a  few. 

In  addition,  ARL  engineers  do  field 
work,  traveling  across  the  country  or 
around  the  world  to  conduct  on-site 
studies. 

The  lab  is  also  known  for  its  flow  meter 
calibration  facilities,  which  are  among  the 
largest  and  best  in  the  world.  Even  minor 
inaccuracies  in  a  flow  meter  (used  to  mea- 
sure the  amount  of  fluid  passing  through  a 
pipe)  can  translate  into  huge  sums  of 
money,  so  precise  measurement  is  a  must. 
Meters  big  and  small,  old  and  new,  are 
sent  from  all  over  the  world  to  be  checked 
out  at  ARL,  where  the  calibration  is  accu- 
rate to  within  one  quarter  of  one  percent. 

Despite  its  great  scope  of  activity  and  its 
world  renown,  however,  ARL  remains 
something  of  an  anomaly.  For  example, 
the  lab  is  well  known  to  hydraulic  and 
fluid  mechanic  experts  in  places  like  Cali- 
fornia, New  York,  Egypt,  Scotland,  the 
Soviet  Union,  South  America  and  Japan, 


but  many  students  spend  four  years  at  WPI 
and  leave  without  ever  having  visited— or 
even  having  heard  about— the  place. 
Albert  G.  Ferron,  '57,  who  heads  the  flow 
meter  operation  at  ARL,  tells  the  story  of 
one  embarrassed  client  who  called  to  get 
some  calibration  work  done.  "He  was  a 
WPI  grad,  but  he  never  knew  ARL 
existed,"  says  Ferron.  "Ironically,  he  had 
been  referred  to  ARL  by  an  RPI  grad." 

Another  curiosity:  ARL  is  perhaps 
WPI's  most  visible  arm— its  name  is 
known  across  the  globe,  at  least  in  certain 
engineering  circles.  Yet  few  people  associ- 
ate WPI  with  fluid  mechanics. 

The  main  WPI  campus  and  the  lab  have 
always  enjoyed  an  unusual  relationship. 
At  times,  the  lab  seems  to  have  been 
looked  upon  as  a  brilliant  but  troublesome 
stepchild  that  no  one  was  quite  sure  what 
to  do  with.  And  although  ARL  is  very 
much  a  part  of  the  school,  it  is  a  "self- 
supporting  research  department,"  and 
ARL  Director  George  E.  Hecker  empha- 
sizes the  'self-supporting.'  "We're  totally 
dependent  on  research  contracts,"  he  says. 
"Without  them,  we  simply  wouldn't 
exist." 

The  term  research  here  means  not  just 
"pure,"  National  Science  Foundation-type 
grants,  though  the  lab  does  get  some  of 
those,  but  also  applied  research— studies 
conducted  for  clients— which  make  up  the 
bulk  of  the  work. 

But  to  really  understand  what  Alden 
Research  Laboratory  is  today,  it's  neces- 
sary to  begin  at  the  beginning. 


8 

a>    t.-          — ~                   ,.     TOP      '>• 

will   ^ 

ARL  calibrates  flow  meters  to  within  one  quarter  of  J  percent  by  weighing  the  water  for 
a  specified  time.  Here  two  ultrasonic  flow  meters  (the  light-colored  pipe)  are  calibrated. 


Professor  C.  M.  Allen  at  work  in  the  lab 's 
original  building,  circa  1898. 

Wrhen  George  I.  Alden  stood  atop 
that  knoll  in  the  Chaffins  section 
of  Holden  one  day  in  1893  and 
looked  out  on  acre  after  acre  of  woods,  he 
knew  he  had  found  the  spot.  Alden,  then 
head  of  the  WPI  mechanical  engineering 
department,  had  for  some  time  realized  the 
need  for  a  fluid  mechanics  research  labora- 
tory and  was  looking  for  the  right  place  to 
begin  one. 

By  the  following  year,  he  had  arranged 
to  have  the  site  donated  by  Trustee 
Stephen  Salisbury,  complete  with  water 
rights  to  a  150-acre  pond.  He  had  also  got- 
ten the  state  of  Massachusetts  to  kick  in 
about  $10,000,  a  good  sum  of  money  in 
those  days.  In  1894,  in  a  small  building 
moved  to  the  site  by  horse  and  wagon,  an 
experimental  laboratory  was  established. 

Alden,  who  would  go  on  to  help  found 
the  Norton  Company  and  serve  as  its  pres- 
ident and  chairman,  soon  turned  the  lab 
over  to  one  of  his  former  students,  Charles 
M.  Allen.  Alden  would  always  support  the 
lab,  however,  financing  several  projects 
during  his  lifetime  and,  through  his  trust 
fund,  making  possible  a  number  of  addi- 
tions and  renovations  in  later  years. 

At  first,  much  of  ARL's  work  involved 
the  testing  of  water  wheels,  pumps, 
engines  and  turbines  using  the  Alden 
Absorption  Dynamometer,  a  water-cooled 
disc  brake  Alden  had  invented.  Other  test- 
ing equipment  included  a  36  x  16-inch 
Venturi  meter— the  first  of  its  kind  in  the 
world— that  had  been  on  display  at  the 
1893  Chicago's  World  Fair  (and  would, 
incidentally,  be  used  until  the  1970s)  and  a 
Fairbanks  standard  scale  for  weighing 
water. 

Allen,  who  would  direct  the  lab  for 
more  than  50  years,  had  a  knack  for  labo- 
ratory work.  He  preferred  to  test  theories 
by  experiment  and  never  really  trusted 
anything  that  could  be  proven  only  on 


NOVEMBER  1984 


ARL's  rotating  boom  is  a  national  historic  mechanical-engineering  landmark. 


paper.  He  was  also,  as  they  say,  a  real 
character. 

"He  was  physically  impressive,"  recalls 
Lawrence  C.  Neale,  '40,  who  worked  for 
Allen  and  would  later  become  ARL's  third 
director.  "He  had  snow-white  hair  from  an 
early  age  and  a  peaches  and  cream  com- 
plexion. He  was  about  six  feet  tall,  and 
weighed  200  pounds— he  used  to  check 
scales  by  standing  on  them. 

"He  always,  I  mean  always,  carried  a 
small  tool  kit  with  him— screwdriver,  S- 
wrench,  pocket  knife,  Stilson  wrench,  pli- 
ers, 6-foot  rule.  Mrs.  Allen  would  sew 
special  leather  pockets  into  all  his  suits  so 
the  kit  wouldn't  wear  through." 

Allen  was  responsible  for  construction 
of  the  lab's  rotating  boom,  built  in  1908  as 
a  circular  test  apparatus  for  hydraulic 
experiments  and  for  rating  current  meters. 
The  boom,  now  a  national  historical 
mechanical  engineering  landmark,  was 
originally  built  of  wood,  but  soon  was 
replaced  by  a  stronger  steel  model.  It  has 
been  used  over  the  years  to  test  aircraft 
propellers,  artillery  shell  ballistics,  ship 
logs  (which  measure  speed  through 
water),  minesweeper  paravanes  (devices 
that  sever  mine  moorings)  and  water 
turbines. 

Allen  was  the  man  who  developed  the 
salt  velocity  method  of  measuring  water 
flow,  a  process  of  electrically  recording 
the  speed  of  a  cloud  of  salt  through  a 
known  amount  of  water  in  a  measured 
length  of  pipe.  The  method  would  become 
an  international  standard. 

"The  amazing  thing  about  Allen,"  says 
Larry  Neale,  "is  that  no  one  ever  saw  him 
do  any  calculations,  except  in  his  head." 

Testimony  to  that  is  the  way  he  devel- 
oped the  salt  method.  "You  know,"  he 
was  quoted  as  saying,  "I've  watched 
sheep  going  down  a  road,  some  run  fast  in 


the  middle  of  the  road  and  some  dawdle  by 
the  side  to  eat  grass— then  they  change  and 
the  ones  in  the  middle  get  to  the  edge  and 
those  at  the  edge  get  to  the  middle,  but  the 
whole  flock  moves  along  at  a  steady  rate. 
That's  what  water  does  in  a  pipe." 

He  was  also  among  the  first  to  use  scale 
models  to  study  fluid  flow,  constructing 
miniature  dams  and  rivers  for  cities,  towns 
and  power  companies. 

One  of  Allen's  favorite  pastimes  was 
appearing  before  various  civic  groups  to 
lecture  on  "The  Use  and  Abuse  of  Gaso- 
line," a  comic  yet  instructional  presenta- 
tion that  featured  spectacular  demonstra- 
tions of  fire  breathing  and  exploding  pans. 

"I  used  to  drive  him  to  all  the  lectures," 
says  Neale.  "I  think  I  counted  once  that  I 
had  seen  it  19  times.  He  never  tired  of  it, 
though." 

Allen's  right  hand  man  throughout  the 
1930s  and  '40s  was  Leslie  J.  Hooper,  '24, 
a  brilliant  young  hydraulic  engineer  who, 
in  1950,  would  succeed  Allen  as  director. 
Together,  they  authored  a  number  of 
important  technical  papers. 

It  was  Hooper  who,  beginning  in  the 
early  1940s,  oversaw  what  would  become 
a  long  association  with  the  Navy.  Much  of 
the  work,  classified  at  the  time,  involved 
the  testing  of  missiles,  torpedoes,  mines 
and  rockets.  High-speed  cameras  were 
used  to  record  the  projectiles'  behavior.  In 
later  years,  ARL  would  test  Mercury  and 
Gemini  flight  capsules  to  see  whether  they 
floated  and  how  stable  they  were. 

The  early  1950s  at  ARL  were  devoted 
almost  exclusively  to  Navy  work.  Then,  in 
the  late  '50s,  thermal  discharge  studies 
began,  first  for  fossil  fuel  plants  and,  later, 
for  nuclear  plants.  This  work,  in  progres- 
sively more  sophisticated  form,  would  be 
an  ARL  mainstay  through  the  '60s  and 
'70s.  Physical  and  mathematical  modeling 


of  waterways  would  also  continue. 

The  late  1960s  were  a  pivotal  time  for 
ARL.  In  1967,  Hooper  stepped  down  and 
Larry  Neale  became  the  lab's  third  direc- 
tor. Military  work  pretty  much  came  to  an 
end.  The  nation  was  undergoing  a  funda- 
mental change.  Protests  over  the  war  in 
Vietnam  were  raging,  and  no  longer  was  it 
fashionable  for  colleges  to  be  associated 
with  building  the  tools  of  war.  Gone  were 
the  days  when  a  college  could  proudly 
send  out  a  news  release  (as  WPI  did)  her- 
alding the  fact  that  it  was  helping  the  Navy 
design  "more  deadly  and  accurate  weap- 
ons of  offense  and  defense." 

The  following  year,  1968,  the  new  flow 
meter  facilities  were  dedicated  and  cali- 
bration work  expanded.  In  that  field,  ARL 
was  now  virtually  in  a  class  by  itself;  few 
if  any  could  match  it  in  size  or  quality. 

Also  around  this  time,  the  lab,  which 
had  always  been  part  of  the  Mechanical 
Engineering  Department,  became  an  inde- 
pendent department. 

By  the  1970s,  ARL's  reputation  had 
spread  and  the  lab  now  had  more  work 
than  it  could  handle,  much  of  it  because  of 
expanded  plans  for  nuclear  plants  and,  at 
the  same  time,  growing  concern  about  the 
environment.  There  was  a  rash  of  thermal- 
discharge  model  studies.  During  those 
peak  years,  as  many  as  60  people  were  on 
the  ARL  payroll— a  far  cry  from  earlier 
decades  when  from  six  to  12  employees 
staffed  the  lab. 

Also  during  this  period,  the  lab  under- 
went a  subtle  but  fundamental  change,  the 
seeds  of  which  were  sown  as  early  as  the 
late  1960s.  Few  probably  noticed  it  at 
first,  but  an  era  that  had  begun  in  1894  was 
ending.  No  longer  could  things  be  run 
informally.  The  days  of  contracts  okayed 
with  a  handshake  or  a  phone  conversation 
were  gone. 

Larry  Neale,  who  resigned  as  director  of 
ARL  in  1975  after  a  nearly  40-year  tenure 
at  the  lab,  has  memories  of  the  past  that 
illuminate  the  present.  "I  remember  viv- 
idly the  years  when  three  or  four  of  us 
would  sit  around  the  fireplace  in  rocking 
chairs  discussing  the  day's  work.  We  were 
often  paid  out  of  Allen's  personal  checking 
account  or  from  checks  from  clients. 

"And  in  those  days,  everyone  did  every- 
thing—concrete work,  carpentry,  digging, 
you  name  it.  There  were  times  when 
everybody  except  Mrs.  Lawrence,  the  sec- 
retary, was  down  pouring  concrete." 

The  change  to  a  more  structured  organi- 
zation (the  lab  now  consists  of  four  divi- 
sions: Applied  Fluid  Mechanics,  Open 
Channel  Hydraulics,  Flow  Measurement 
and  Machinery,  and  Research  and  Devel- 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


opment)  was  less  the  product  of  a  con- 
scious decision  on  anybody's  part  than  a 
response  to  the  demands  of  a  changing 
world.  Equipment  was  more  sophisticated 
and  more  expensive.  Clients  were  de- 
manding formal  proposals  and  complex 
contracts.  Time  became  more  of  a  factor. 
So  did  liability.  This  last  issue  would  esca- 
late until,  for  a  time  last  year,  there  was 
serious  thought  given  to  making  ARL  an 
independent  organization. 

George  E.  Hecker,  who  took  over  as 
director  when  Neale  left,  explains: 
"Because  so  much  of  the  work  we  do  is 
applied  by  the  client  to  a  'product,'  if  you 
will,  we  could  be  held  responsible  if  some- 
thing should  go  wrong.  And,  in  the  case  of 
a  nuclear  power  plant  having  to  be  shut 
down,  for  example,  the  cost  implications 
would  be  tremendous."  Ultimately,  rea- 
sonably priced  liability  insurance  rates 
were  secured  and  the  crisis  was  averted. 

By  about  1980,  the  pendulum  had 
swung  again  and  research  contracts  at 
Alden  declined.  A  number  of  things  con- 
tributed to  the  slowdown.  Cost  overruns 
and  public  fear  over  the  Three  Mile  Island 
incident  had  virtually  halted  the  construc- 
tion of  new  nuclear  plants.  In  fact,  few 
power  plants  of  any  kind  were  being  built. 

"The  recession  forced  a  reduction  in 
power  demand,"  says  Neale,  now  chief 
hydraulic  engineer  for  the  Boston  firm  of 
Charles  T.  Main.  "Fewer  factories  were 
running,  and  there  was  little  new  construc- 
tion. There  was  simply  no  need  for  new 
power  facilities." 

Neale  also  points  to  increased  competi- 
tion on  the  international  market.  "There  is 
model  study  work  now  being  done   in 


ARL  is  located  on  20  wooded  acres  in 
Holden,  MA,  five  miles  from  WPI. 


developing  nations  like  Pakistan  and 
Argentina  that  could  be  done  faster  and 
better  at  Alden.  But  these  countries  want 
their  own  people  to  learn  how  to  run 
things." 

Pure  research  contracts  continue  to  fund 
a  fraction  of  the  lab's  activity  but,  as 
Hecker  points  out,  ARL  is  at  somewhat  of 
a  disadvantage  in  this  area:  "NSF  and  oth- 
ers who  fund  basic  research  lean  toward 
facilities  that  are  staffed  with  a  full-time 
academic  faculty."  ARL's  competition  in 
this  category  comes  from  schools  like  the 
Iowa  Institute  of  Hydraulic  Research  at  the 
University  of  Iowa,  the  St.  Anthony's 
Falls  facility  at  the  University  of  Minne- 
sota, California  Institute  of  Technology 
and  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Technol- 
ogy. 

Student  participation  at  ARL,  too,  has 
declined.  For  years,  all  civil  and  mechani- 
cal engineering  majors  did  lab  work  out  at 
Alden  as  part  of  their  required  course  of 
study,  but  student  interest  in  hydraulics 
and  fluid  mechanics  has  always  been 
cyclical.  In  the  1950s  a  general  decline  in 
interest  in  the  laboratory  aspect  of  educa- 
tion cut  the  numbers.  Then,  during  the 
early  to  mid-'70s  when  the  lab  was  very 
busy,  there  was  renewed  student  interest. 
As  many  as  15  graduate  and  30  undergrad- 
uate students  were  doing  work  at  ARL. 
Currently,  there  are  just  one  graduate  stu- 
dent and  a  handful  of  undergraduates. 

The  current  decline  in  students  at  Alden 
is,  at  least  partly,  traceable  to  a  changing 
world. 

"Students  have  a  lot  more  choices 
now,"  notes  Neal.  "With  electronics, 
computers  and  other  new  fields,  there's 
simply  more  competition  for  a  student's 
time." 

William  W.  Durgin,  who  was  at  ARL 
for  about  12  years  before  leaving  to 
become  a  full-time  ME  professor  at  WPI, 
points  out  the  contributions  students  have 
made  over  the  years. 

"Students  conduct  studies  and  contrib- 
ute ideas  that  are  of  great  help.  They 
helped  WPI  carve  out  a  special  niche. 
And,  from  a  practical  point  of  view,  stu- 
dents working  on  master's  theses  can  do  a 
big  chunk  of  work  for  a  small  amount  of 
money.  But  the  greatest  asset  is  the  vitality 
and  boundless  energy  of  students." 

Another  change  at  ARL  is  a  greater 
emphasis  on  computer  modeling  of  flows. 
A  more  powerful  main  computer  was 
recently  installed  to  allow  sophisticated 
simulations  like  the  one  done  of  the  Lantao 
Bay  in  Hong  Kong. 

Field  studies  have  also  increased,  espe- 
cially for  flow  measurements   in  power 


A  Lab  By  Any 
Other  Name... 

If  you  think  you've  noticed  something 
peculiar  about  references  to  Alden 
Lab  over  the  years,  you're  right.  The 
place  has  had  four  different  names: 
Hydraulic  Testing  Laboratory  (1894), 
Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory  (1917), 
Alden  Research  Laboratories  (1965) 
and  Alden  Research  Laboratory 
(1977). 


plant  cooling  systems  and  hydro-power 
stations.  Many  such  measurements  use  the 
dye  dilution  method,  a  process  ARL 
recently  improved  to  the  point  where  accu- 
racy is  on  the  order  of  one  percent.  Such 
pinpoint  measurements  allow  plants  to 
improve  efficiency,  which  takes  on  greater 
importance  now  that  few  new  plants  are 
being  built. 

In  the  physical  modeling  area,  interest  in 
renewable  energy  sources  has  resulted  in 
several  ARL  studies  of  "low  head  hydro" 
projects,  which  produce  electricity  from 
rivers  with  large  flows  but  relatively  low 
height  water  drops.  In  this  category  would 
be  the  many  regulating  dams  on  the  Ohio 
and  other  great  U.S.  rivers. 

Flow  measurement  at  ARL,  which  tra- 
ditionally has  represented  about  25  percent 
of  the  lab's  work,  is  still  going  strong.  Al 
Ferron  reports  he  is  booked  several 
months  in  advance. 

As  for  the  future,  one  thing's  for  certain: 
coming  trends  are  virtually  impossible  to 
forecast.  Some  predict  a  serious  power 
shortage  in  the  next  decade  if  new  plant 
construction  does  not  pick  up. 

"There  are  great  fluctuations  in  this 
business,"  says  Assistant  Director  Bro- 
card,  "and  we  often  end  up  having  either 
too  little  or  too  much  work.  But  that's  one 
of  the  exciting  things  about  it." 

As  ARL  turns  90  and  looks  toward  its 
centennial,  no  one  is  really  sure  what  the 
lab  will  be  like  10  years  down  the  road. 
Whether  you  consider  that  to  be  exciting 
or  disconcerting  is  akin  to  seeing  the  pro- 
verbial water  glass  as  either  half  full  or 
half  empty. 

It's  clear,  however,  that  the  lab  has 
always  rolled  with  the  punches  and 
changed  with  the  times.  The  smart  money 
says  the  glass  is  half  full. 

Michael  Shanley  is  Director  of  the  WPI 
New  Bureau. 


NOVEMBER  1984        11 


FACULTY  WORITES 


W"e  all  read  in  our  spare  time- 
newspapers,  magazines,  books, 
billboards.  For  most  of  us,  the 
paper  we  thumb  through  would  add  up 
to  a  small  mountain  were  we  to  collect  it 
over  the  years.  And  when  it  comes  to 
books,  there  may  be  one  or  two  whose 
reading  leaves  us  with  a  special  message 
that  we  carry  with  us— for  life. 


Ever  wondered  which  volumes  affect 
professors  in  this  way?  We  did,  so  we 
invited  VMM's  faculty  to  tell  us  about 
their  favorite  books.  What  we  found 
was  that  the  books  faculty  read  on  their 
own  time  are  as  often  as  not  far  afield 
from  their  professional  specialty,  yet 
their  selections  may  tell  us  a  lot  about 
these  folks  as  people  outside  the  class- 


room or  laboratory.  The  assortment 
embraces  fiction  and  non-fiction,  tech- 
nical and  biological  works. 

One  thing  is  clear:  the  faculty  whose 
book  reviews  follow  were  moved  by 
their  readings.  We  offer  these  critiques 
for  your  own  reading  pleasure  as  well 
as,  perhaps,  to  offer  you  candidates  for 
your  own  reading  list. 


Computer  Power  and 
Human  Reason:  From 
Judgement  to  Calculation 

by  Joseph  Weizenbaum 
W.  H.  Freeman  and  Co., 
San  Francisco,  1976 

The  Computer  Science  Department  offers 
a  course  entitled  Introduction  to  Artificial 
Intelligence.  When  people  first  hear  this, 
their  reactions  often  take  the  form  of  either 
amusement  or  skepticism.  People  unfamil- 
iar with  computers  are  amused  and  ask,  of 
course,  whether  we  accept  people  with 
natural  intelligence.  People  with  some 
computing  experience  express  similar 
amusement  until  they  realize  that  I  am 
serious,  then  they  display  a  strong  skepti- 
cism. "How  can  the  idiot  machine  ever  do 
anything  remotely  resembling  intelli- 
gence? I  have  programmed  computers 
before,  and  I  know  that  there's  not  a  breath 
of  intelligence  in  those  things." 

Computer  Power  and  Human  Reason  is 
a  book  written  by  an  Artificial  Intelligence 
(AI)  researcher  (Weizenbaum  is  a  profes- 
sor of  computer  science  at  MIT)  arguing 
against  some  of  the  directions  being  taken 
in  AI  research.  Weizenbaum  does  not 
doubt  the  potential  of  computers  to  behave 
intelligently.  His  careful  discussion  of  the 
power  of  computers  is  at  least  enough  to 
convince  the  reader  that  there  is  more  to 
computer  science  than  programming  lan- 
guages, programming  techniques  and 
advanced  programming,  a  common  mis- 
conception among  WPI  students  (and  fac- 
ulty, if  the  truth  be  told). 

Weizenbaum's  conflict  is  over  the  ways 
in  which  AI  technology  should  be  applied 
to  human  problems.  His  position  is,  at  one 
level,  that  computers  should  not  be  used  in 
certain  situations  (psychotherapy,  for 
example)  even  if  they  can  be  programmed 
to  simulate  a  human  in  that  situation, 


James  M.  Coggins 

because  many  of  our  problems  are 
uniquely  human  in  origin  and  need 
uniquely  human  solutions.  We  are  what 
we  are  partly  because  we  must  grow  up, 
because  we  have  two  legs,  because  we 
have  a  thumb,  and  because  we  hold  certain 
views  of  the  world.  Weizenbaum  argues 
that  no  computer,  no  matter  how 
advanced,  can  or  should  be  expected  to  act 
with  the  wisdom  and  understanding 
needed  to  satisfy  uniquely  human  needs. 

On  another  level,  however,  Weizen- 
baum seeks  to  awaken  scientists  and  non- 
scientists  alike  to  what  he  calls  the  "impe- 
rialism of  instrumental  reason."  The 
thought  process  that  we  denote  by  the 
terms  "decide,"  "deduce"  and  "compute" 
has  become  the  accepted  mode  of 
"rational"  conversation  and  argument- 
one  based  on  calculation.   To  express 


"beliefs"  or  "feelings"  or  to  make 
"choices"  or  to  have  "hunches"  is  no 
longer  an  acceptable  basis  for  ideas— we 
have  begun  to  denigrate  human  judgment. 
If  we  limit  our  consideration  to  calcula- 
tion, then  the  computer  will  soon  join  us  as 
a  calculating,  rational  thinker.  Weizen- 
baum argues  that  we  must  not  ignore  or 
dismiss  the  process  of  human  judgment  as 
a  basis  for  valid  ideas.  (For  further  read- 
ing, see  "The  Causes  of  Wars"  by 
Michael  Howard  in  the  Wilson  Quarterly, 
Summer  1984,  in  which  the  author  attrib- 
utes war  to  a  "superabundance  of  analytic 
rationality".) 

Computer  Power  and  Human  Reason  is 
not  an  easy  book  to  read,  but  it  is  an 
important  one,  though  Weizenbaum's  ten- 
dency to  wax  metaphysical  sometimes 
obscures  cogent  points.  This  is  not  the 
work  of  some  irrational  pseudo-philoso- 
pher, but  of  the  creator  of  ELIZA,  one  of 
the  earliest  AI  programs.  Nor  is  it  the 
work  of  an  anti-technology  pseudo-intel- 
lectual. Weizenbaum  has  no  doubt  that 
computers  can  in  principle  behave  "intelli- 
gently." His  argument  concerns  the  desir- 
able limits  of  the  application  of  this  tech- 
nology. 

—James  M.  Coggins 

Assistant  Professor  of  Computer  Science 

Too  Long  a  Sacrifice: 
Life  and  Death  in 
Northern  Ireland 

by  Jack  Holland 

Penguin  Books,  New  York,  1982 
Hardcover  published  by 
Dodd,  Mead  &  Company,  1981 

In  the  early  1960s  synthetic  fabrics  and 
Japanese  steel  undermined  the  linen  and 
shipbuilding  industries  of  the  six  provinces 
of  Ireland  that  are  still  part  of  the  United 


12        WPI  JOURNAL 


Patrick  P.  Dunn 

Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland.  Realizing  the  need  for  industrial 
modernization,  Terrence  O'Neill,  elected 
Prime  Minister  of  Northern  Ireland  in 
1963,  began  mobilizing  talent  regardless 
of  race  or  creed,  building  bridges  to  the 
Catholic  minority  of  Ulster.  After  all,  he 
explained,  "If  you  give  Roman  Catholics 
a  good  job  and  a  good  house  they  will  live 
like  Protestants  because  they  will  see 
neighbors  with  cars  and  television  sets." 

For  many  of  the  Protestant  majority, 
O'Neill's  "language  of  modernization" 
meant  "sell-out."  Followers  of  the  Presby- 
terian Minister  Ian  Paisley  responded  with 
a  campaign  to  execute  known  members  of 
the  Irish  Republican  Army.  No  IRA  mem- 
ber was  executed,  but  an  elderly  Protestant 
woman  was  killed,  a  drunk  shot,  and  a  bar 
blown  up  before  the  violence  subsided. 

In  response  to  O'Neill's  initiative,  Irish 
Prime  Minister  Lemass  signed  an  agree- 
ment to  pursue  matters  of  common  eco- 
nomic interest.  And  back  in  Northern 
Ireland  efforts  were  made  to  end  discrimi- 
nation against  Catholics  in  employment, 
housing  allocation  and  political 
redistricting. 

In  England,  meanwhile,  Labourite 
Harold  Wilson,  who  had  once  called  the 
ruling  Unionist  Party  in  Ulster  "quasi-fas- 
cists,"  was  Prime  Minister.  To  Paisley  and 
his  followers,  it  seemed  as  if  the  IRA 
dream  of  a  united  and  independent  Ireland 
with  an  overwhelming  Catholic  majority 
might  yet  be  realized.  They  organized  to 
counter  local  civil  rights  rallies,  culminat- 
ing in  the  August  1969  "Battle  of  the 
Bogside,"  which  brought  in  British  troops. 

The  IRA  played  no  role  in  these  con- 
flicts—indeed in  the  Catholic  ghetto 
"IRA"  stood  for  "I  Ran  Away."  But  from 
the  ashes  of  burned-out  Catholic  ghettos 
arose  the  Provisional  IRA,  with  its  sym- 
bol, appropriately,  a  phoenix.  Thus  began 
the  current  round  of  "troubles"  in  Ulster. 

Author  Holland,  of  mixed  Catholic  and 


Protestant  heritage,  chronicles  and  ana- 
lyzes events  from  1969  to  1982.  A  jour- 
nalist by  training,  he  blends  personal  expe- 
riences with  interviews  and  written 
accounts.  In  the  end  he  condemns  the  vio- 
lence wrought  on  the  population  by  all 
sides  of  the  struggle. 

While  not  ignoring  history,  Holland 
stresses  how  the  current  situation  differs 
from  the  past.  The  IRA  of  history  was  a 
rural-based  guerilla  army  recruited  from 
poor  farmers  steeped  in  conservative  Irish 
culture.  The  soldiers  of  the  Provisional 
IRA  are  urban  youth,  educated,  many  with 
service  in  the  British  army,  underem- 
ployed, frustrated,  and  with  liberal  to  left- 
ist political  ideals.  They  confront  a  Protes- 
tant majority  whose  identity  has  been 
weakened  by  economic  decline  and 
English  betrayal  (home  rule  in  Northern 
Ireland  was  abolished  in  1972). 

Holland  concludes,  "It  would  seem  rea- 


Laura  Menides 


sonable  to  suggest  a  look  at  other  kinds 
of  political  and  economic  relationships 
between  Belfast,  London,  and  Dublin 
which  would  satisfy  the  national  aspira- 
tions of  the  vast  majority  of  the  Irish  peo- 
ple while  at  the  same  time  giving  protec- 
tion, and  some  degree  of  autonomy,  to  the 
local,  northeastern  Protestant  population." 
For,  as  Yeats  wrote  over  a  half  century 
ago,  it  has  already  been  "too  long  a  sacri- 
fice .  .  .  O  when  may  it  suffice?" 

—Patrick  P.  Dunn 
Associate  Professor  of  History 


Everything  That  Rises 
Must  Converge 

by  Flannery  O'Connor 
Farrar,  Straus  and  Giroux, 
New  York,  1965 

Flannery  O'Connor  was  working  on  her 
volume  of  short  stories,  Everything  That 
Rises  Must  Converge,  when  she  died  in 
1964  at  age  39.  Like  her  two  novels  Wise 
Blood  and  The  Violent  Bear  It  Away,  these 
stories  are  remarkable— imaginative, 
comic,  even  bizarre,  yet  spiritual  and 
deeply,  humanly  true.  Surely  they  rank 
among  the  masterpieces  of  American  liter- 
ature. 

The  title  story  of  Everything  That  Rises 
Must  Converge,  like  most  of  O'Connor's 
fiction,  takes  place  in  the  American  South 
shortly  after  desegregation  had  become  the 
law  of  the  land.  The  story  at  first  seems  a 
simple  tale  of  a  clash  between  generations, 
a  typical  mother-son  conflict,  she  clinging 
to  old-fashioned  ways  and  he  college-edu- 
cated and  modern.  The  son  finds  his 
mother  burdensome,  and  we  readers  are 
apt  to  find  her  so  as  well:  her  silly  talk  of 
her  new  hat,  her  exercise  classes  with 
other  "girls  over  fifty,"  her  fond  memories 
of  her  genteel,  white  Southern  upbringing, 
her  condescending  attitude  toward  blacks, 
whom  she  calls  "darkies,"  her  conviction 
that  things  were  better  for  the  black  race 
before  desegregation.  The  son,  Julian, 
thinks  (and  again  we  tend  to  agree)  that 
she  needs  a  lesson,  and  that  justice  has 
triumphed  when  she  undergoes  a  series  of 
humiliations  on  a  newly  integrated  bus, 
culminating  when  a  black  woman  comes 
aboard  wearing  a  hat  identical  to  his  moth- 
er's. Julian's  gloating  becomes  excessive, 
however,  as  does  the  anger  and  verbal 
abuse  which  he  directs  at  his  mother. 

We  begin  to  question  our  earlier  identifi- 
cation with  him — we  might  even  be 
ashamed  of  it— as  we  see  how  limited  and 


NOVEMBER  1984        13 


insensitive  he  is,  how  pompous,  how 
superior  he  thinks  himself,  how  conde- 
scending toward  his  mother,  and  how 
cruel.  Julian's  own  realization  comes  late, 
at  the  dramatic  ending  of  the  story,  when, 
stripped  of  his  sense  of  superiority,  he  is 
ready  to  enter  "the  world  of  guilt  and  sor- 
row." 

Without  being  the  least  bit  preachy, 
O'Connor's  story  has  a  profoundly  reli- 
gious effect  on  readers,  for  it  suggests  not 
only  the  Fall  of  Man,  but  also  the  need  for 
grace  and  redemption.  Like  all  great  litera- 
ture, it  makes  us  feel  and  think  deeply;  it 
helps  us  discover  what  it  means  to  be 
human. 

—Laura  Menides 
Assistant  Professor  of  English 


The  Poems  of  W  B  Yeats 

Edited  by  Richard  J.  Finneran 
Macmillan,  New  York,  1983 

William  Butler  Yeats  (1865-1939)  is  argu- 
ably the  most  important  poet  to  write  in 
English  since  the  Great  Romantics,  whose 
ideas  he  perpetuated  and  developed  fur- 
ther. Unlike  the  Great  Romantics,  how- 
ever, Yeats  remained  fully  vital  as  a  citizen 
and  poet  throughout  his  life. 

Perhaps  Yeats's  greatest  achievement 
was  always  to  remain  open  to  new  sensa- 
tions, new  opinions,  new  ideas.  Early  (as 
in  "A  Coat")  and  late  (as  in  "The  Circus 
Animals'  Desertion"),  he  proclaimed  the 
need  to  return  to  everyday  human  experi- 
ence—"the  foul  rag  and  bone  shop  of  the 
heart"— as  the  basis  of  a  poetic  art  that 
would  not  lose  touch  with  the  common 
reader. 

He  mastered  all  the  techniques  of  his 
trade  in  his  twenties,  and  by  mid-career  he 
had  brought  to  perfection  the  rhetoric  of 
19th-century  Romantic  poetry— mytholog- 
ical allusions  (both  to  Irish  and  classical 
sources),  nature  descriptions  infused  with 
a  sense  of  spirit,  and  the  universalizing  of 
his  own  experience.  Yet  his  greatest 
strength  was  always  to  suspect  and  subvert 
that  very  rhetoric.  Thus  he  avoided  the 
fate  of  the  later  Wordsworth  or  Tennyson, 
for  whom  the  sound  of  the  language  came 
to  outweigh  its  sense. 

Yeats's  life  spanned  a  turbulent  period  in 
history— from  the  end  of  our  Civil  War  to 
the  outbreak  of  World  War  II.  As  a  young 
man,  though,  he  grew  up  at  the  end  of  the 
Victorian  era,  when  many  expected  the 
new  commerce  and  technology  to  ensure 
world  stability.  World  War  I  came  as  a 
terrible  disillusion.   As  he  wrote   in  his 


Lance  Schachterle 

great  war  poem,  "Nineteen  Hundred  and 
Nineteen": 

77?^  night  can  sweat  with  terror  as 
before 

We  pieced  our  thoughts  into  philosophy, 

And  planned  to  bring  the  world  under  a 
rule, 

Who  are  but  weasels  fighting  in  a  hole. 

Yeats  recognized  that  by  nature  he  was 
contemplative  rather  than  actively  out- 
ward-going, leading  him  to  fear  the  con- 
striction of  too  narrow  a  range  of  experi- 
ence. Thus  from  1900  on,  he  forced 
himself  to  pursue  a  life  of  public  activity 
and  service.  His  poems  on  the  Irish  Civil 
War  provide  a  moving  record  of  his 
despair  over  the  apparent  death  of  Irish 
patriotism  ("September  1913"),  his  recog- 
nition that  his  loss  of  hope  was  premature 
("Easter,  1916"),  and  his  shock  over  the 
outrages  of  the  Civil  War  itself  ("Medita- 


tions in  Time  of  Civil  War").  And  when 
the  Irish  Republic  was  proclaimed  in 
1922,  he  accepted  the  burdensome  respon- 
sibility of  becoming  a  member  of  the  first 
Senate,  where  he  applied  his  considerable 
skills  in  prose  to  arguing  public  policy  in 
areas  like  copyright,  coinage  and  divorce. 
In  1923  he  won  the  Nobel  Prize  for  litera- 
ture. Reputedly  his  first  question  was: 
"How  much  does  it  pay?" 

This  new  edition  of  all  of  Yeats's  pub- 
lished poems— and  many  he  did  not  collect 
in  his  various  reprints — provides  accurate, 
clear  texts  with  helpful  notes  by  both  Yeats 
and  the  editor,  Richard  J.  Finneran.  The 
poems  are  presented  in  the  order  which 
Yeats  himself  devised  for  his  own  various 
collected  editions,  an  important  feature 
since  Yeats  often  juxtaposed  lyrics  to  con- 
trast or  expand  upon  his  central  themes. 
This  handsome  and  reasonably  priced  vol- 
ume thus  provides  the  full  record  of 
Yeats's  career  as  a  poet,  and  many  helpful 
explanations  of  his  personal  references  to 
historical  and  political  figures.  It  is  a  won- 
derful way  to  get  to  know  the  work  of 
Ireland's  greatest  poet. 

— Lance  Schachterle 
Professor  of  English 


The  Big  Sky 

by  A.  B.  Guthrie,  Jr. 

William  Sloane  Associates,  New 

York,  1947 

Most  historical  novels  contain  all  the  ele- 
ments of  a  painting  by  Pieter  Brueghel— 


. 

«faWHK\^ 

*^| 

1 

J 

w 

John  Van  Alstyne 


14       WPI  JOURNAL 


lots  of  color,  action,  and  people.  A.  B. 
Guthrie,  Jr.'s  The  Big  Sky  is  painted  in 
more  subtle  hues.  This  is  the  work  of  a 
consummate  storyteller,  one  who  can  sus- 
tain the  reader's  interest  even  though  the 
emphasis  is  more  on  creating  a  mood  than 
on  providing  action.  The  novel  deals  with 
that  extraordinary  band  of  mountain  men 
who  explored  and  understood  a  virgin 
West  before  the  coming  of  the  wagon 
trains.  But  it  is  more  than  just  a  story.  It  is 
an  elegy  for  a  wilderness  of  both  utter 
beauty  and  stark  raw  nature,  written  by  a 
man  who  was  reared  in  Montana  in  the 
early  part  of  this  century. 

The  story  begins  in  1830  when  the  pro- 
tagonist, Boone  Caudill,  flees  his  home  in 
Kentucky  and  heads  west  to  trap  beaver.  In 
St.  Louis,  he  meets  one  of  the  first  moun- 
tain men,  Dick  Summers,  and  together 
they  head  northwest  into  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains. There  is  a  fascination  in  the  contrast 
between  the  raw,  uneducated,  angry 
young  man,  at  odds  with  life  forces  seem- 
ingly beyond  his  control,  and  the  older 
experienced  hunter,  wise  in  the  ways  of 
survival,  who  has  found  a  way  of  life  that 
has  given  him  an  inner  serenity.  There  is 
no  happy  ending  here.  The  time  of  the 
mountain  man  spanned  only  slightly  more 
than  two  decades  in  our  country's  history. 
By  1843,  the  time  setting  for  the  final 
chapters,  both  men  knew  the  days  of  free- 
dom from  civilization  were  fast  coming  to 
an  end. 

Perhaps  because  of  the  contemplative 
nature  of  this  work,  77?^  Big  Sky  never 
attained  a  success  commensurate  with  the 
almost  universal  critical  acclaim  it 
received  when  it  was  published  in  1947. 
Guthrie's  next  book.  The  Way  West, 
packed  with  the  people  and  action  of  a 
wagon  train  heading  for  Oregon,  won  the 
Pulitzer  Prize  in  1950.  Yet  for  me  at  least. 
The  Big  Sky  is  a  book  to  be  cherished  and 
reread  by  anyone  with  a  love  of  nature  and 
an  interest  in  the  history  of  our  country. 

— John  van  Alstyne 
Dean  of  Academic  Advising 


Confessions  of  an  Actor 
Laurence  Olivier 
An  Autobiography 

Simon  and  Schuster,  New  York, 
1982 

Ask  anyone  of  this  century  to  name  the 
actor  of  the  century,  and  I  would  wager 
most  people  would  say  Laurence  Olivier. 
Confessions  of  an  actor.  Intriguing.  Yet 


Susan  Vick 

other  actors  have  confessed:  John  Barry- 
more  (whew!).  Shelly  Winters  (did  she 
ever!),  Marlon  Brando  (who  told  his  story 
to  someone  else),  Shirley  MacLaine 
(again  and  again),  and  many  more  (though 
few  as  sensationally  as  these  named).  Yet 
none,  I  dare  say,  would  compare  in  great- 
ness to  Olivier!  Therefore  we  could 
assume  that  his  confessions  would  (Hope- 
fully? After  all  he  was  married  to  the  noto- 
rious Vivien  Leigh)  be  greater  than  the 
others':  He  must  have  drunk  more  than 
Barrymore,  sworn  more  than  Winters, 
caroused  more  than  Brando,  been  reborn 
more  than  MacLaine. 

Yet  his  confessions  seem  rather  ordi- 
nary. Nothing  truly  sensational  leaps  from 
his  pages.  Maybe  history  would  be  spicier 
had  he  told  someone  else  who  then  could 
have  written  the  "confessions"  for  him. 
But,  oh!  What  we  might  have  lost  had  Oli- 
vier succumbed  to  the  lure  of  the  luxury 
and  ease  of  having  someone  else  write 
(sensationalize?)  his  book  for  him.  For,  in 
the  process  of  writing  this  book,  Sir 
Laurence  struggles — to  express  his  ideas, 
his  emotions,  to  recall  his  memories  accu- 
rately. No  one  has  led  him  away  from  him. 
What  he  gives  us  is  pure  Olivier— maybe 
not  spicy,  maybe  not  easy  reading,  and 
some  of  it,  perhaps,  downright  drudgery  to 
get  through  (not  much  of  it).  Yet  his  words 
ring  so  true  that  we  may  rejoice  to  hear 
confessions  that  so  clearly  and  directly 
come  from  the  greatest  actor  of  our  time. 

I'm  asked  the  question,  from  time  to 
time,  by  people  outside  the  theatre  profes- 
sion: "Is  Olivier  really  that  good?"  It's 


hard  to  believe  he's  as  good  as  we  all  say 
he  is.  Yet  we  may  have  begun  to  take  his 
great  talent  and  wonderfully  developed 
skills  for  granted:  hard  not  to  do  with 
someone  who  as  an  actor  has  been  in  our 
films,  on  our  stages,  and  upon  our  picture 
tubes  for  almost  as  long  as  many  of  us 
have  been  alive. 

My  question  has  never  been:  "Is  he  that 
good?"  I  always  knew  that  he  was.  I'd 
been  haunted  by  his  Heathcliffe  since  I 
first  saw  "Wuthering  Heights"  in  virtually 
the  same  year  I  found  out  the  truth  about 
Santa  Claus.  I've  driven  over  a  hundred 
miles  to  see  his  Max  de  Winter  in 
"Rebecca"  without  commercials  on  the 
big  screen.  His  "Richard  III"  sparked  my 
intense  and  eternal  interest  in  Shake- 
speare. And  his  performance  in  "Mara- 
thon Man"  kept  me  out  of  the  dentist's 
chair  for  too  many  months! 

My  question  always  has  been:    "Can 
someone  who  can  absorb  and  project  so 
many  characters  so  completely  be  a  com- 
plete person  of  his  own?"  Indeed  he  can. 
Look  no  farther  than  his  confession  of  a 
debilitating  almost  six-year  stage  fright  so 
great  that,  when  he  performed  Shylock,  he 
did  "something  that  I  knew  went  against 
the  conscience  of  all  of  us  who  had  worked 
so  long  for  a  genuine  company  spirit:  I 
asked  them  not  to  look  me  in  the  eyes  in 
any  of  my  scenes."  Enjoy  the  richness  of 
his  faith  in,  and  love  for,  his  dear  friends, 
and  relish  the  stories  of  them: 
I  got  my  dearest  old  friend  on  the 
phone  one  day  and  asked  him, 
"Ralphie  [Richardson),  be  an  angel 
and  think  a  minute  for  me"— there's 
a  friend.  "Should  I  go  to  Hollywood 
and  play  Heathcliff  in  'Wuthering 
Heights'?"  Ralph  obligingly  thought 
for  a  moment  and  then  said,  "Yes. 
Bit  of  fame.  Good."  For  some  rea- 
son I  had  the  greatest  misgivings 
about  the  offer,  but  after  that  mini- 
colloquy  I  didn't  have  them  any 
more. 

He  was  not  above  a  prank  or  confessing 
to  the  resultant  reprimands  by  theatre  man- 
agers early  in  his  career,  nor  does  he  find 
anything  unsophisticated  in  arriving  at 
astonishingly  simple  conclusions:  "Shake- 
speare could  look  after  himself  and  look 
after,  too,  the  actor  who  trusts  him." 

Olivier  lets  us  know  that  the  greatest  can 
also  be  the  most  human.  My  question  has 
been  wonderfully  answered  with  a 
resounding:  "Yes!"  And  although  Sir 
Laurence  takes  us  through  some  dry 
spells,  the  profound  insights  into  life,  love 
and  the  acting  profession  which  he  gently 
yet  persuasively  offers  us  throughout  his 


NOVEMBER  1984       15 


Confessions  give  stunning  proof  of  the 
power  of  true  confessions. 

—Susan  Vick 
Assistant  Professor  of  Drama-Theatre 

Powerline:  The  First  Battle 
of  America's  Energy  War 

by  Barry  M.  Casper  and 

Paul  D.  Wellstone 

University  of  Massachusetts  Press, 

Amherst,  MA,  1981 

and 

Love  Canal:  Science, 
Politics  and  People 

by  Adeline  G.  Levine 

Lexington  Books,  Lexington,  MA, 

1982 

In  recent  years  there  has  been  a  considera- 
ble increase  in  the  general  level  of  aware- 
ness about  potentially  serious  side  effects 
of  technological  development.  Yet  while 
the  environmental  and  public  health  por- 
tions of  these  studies  have  started  to  reach 
a  reasonable  level  of  sophistication,  the 
social  impact  sections  are  generally  quite 
crude.  It  is  therefore  noteworthy  that 
social  scientists  have  begun  to  conduct 
case  studies  of  well-known  incidents. 
Sociologist  Adeline  Levine 's  study  of  Love 
Canal  and  the  account  of  political  scien- 
tists Casper  and  Wellstone  of  the  siting  of 
a  Powerline  in  rural  Minnesota  are  two 
such  accounts. 

In  keeping  with  the  traditional  interests 
of  social  scientists,  each  account  focuses 
on  the  development  of  a  politically  signifi- 
cant social  movement  at  the  grass  roots 
level.  Each  resistance  was  sparked  by  a 
perceived  threat  to  the  homes  of  those 
directly  involved.  Both  trace  the  process 
by  which  average  citizens  become  politi- 
cized and  gradually  learn  how  to  mobilize 
influence.  There  the  similarities  end,  how- 
ever, as  the  groups  involved  and  the  set- 
tings differ  greatly.  One  wins;  the  other 
loses.  One  resists  the  creation  of  a  poten- 
tial threat,  while  the  other  finds  out  that 
they  are  victims  after  the  fact. 

Powerline  involves  a  resistance  move- 
ment by  rural  farmers  who  are  led  slowly 
to  set  aside  their  law-abiding  instincts  to 
mount  an  all-out  effort  to  stop  the  pro- 
posed construction  of  a  high  voltage  D.C. 
powerline  across  their  cropland.  The  fury 
of  the  farmers  takes  them  from  open 
debate  and  mass  demonstration  to  passive 


JohnM.  Wilkes 

resistance  and  harassment,  to  open  con- 
frontations with  the  police  and  outright 
acts  of  sabotage.  In  a  final  desperate  effort 
to  take  back  control  of  the  apparatus  that 
seemed  to  be  oppressing  them,  they  run  a 
candidate  for  governor— and  garner  a  third 
of  the  statewide  vote.  Though  they  fail  to 
stop  the  line,  they  so  alter  the  social  and 
political  atmosphere  in  the  state  that  the 
authors  consider  it  unlikely  that  another 
such  line  could  be  built  in  Minnesota  dur- 
ing the  remainder  of  this  century. 

Bibliographic  sketches  of  key  resistance 
movement  figures  give  the  account  special 
shock  value  and  integrity.  We  learn  that 
some  of  the  leading  farmers  totally  com- 
mitted to  preserving  the  land  as  a  sacred 
trust  are  actually  technically  trained  indi- 
viduals—with sojourns  at  places  like  Ray- 
theon and  the  Bureau  of  Mines— and  some 
with  advanced  technical  degrees  dotting 
their  resumes.  They  are  really  technical 
dissidents  raising  a  challenge  to  the  way  of 
life  they  left  behind. 

Love  Canal  chronicles  the  troubles  of 
the  residents  of  a  working-class  neighbor- 
hood in  Niagara  Falls,  who  awaken  to  the 
fact  that  their  school  is  built  on  top  of  an 
abandoned  chemical  dump  "sold"  by  the 
Hooker  Chemical  Company  to  the  city  for 
a  dollar  and  a  waiver  of  responsibility. 
Subsequent  construction  of  houses,  roads 
and  sewers  had  perforated  the  original  clay 
cap,  and  a  witch's  brew  of  toxic  chemicals 
was  leaking  through  the  neighborhood 
underground. 

On  finding  that  they  might  already  have 
received  serious  exposures  to  carcinogens, 
as  well  as  suffered  a  range  of  immediate 
physical  discomforts,  and  a  miscarriage 
rate  several  times  the  national  rate,  the 
residents  organized  an  increasingly  media- 


wise  political  campaign  to  get  enough  of 
an  indemnity  from  the  state  to  allow  them 
to  abandon  their  contaminated  and  worth- 
less homes.  The  main  portion  of  the 
account  involves  the  process  by  which 
they  organized  themselves  to  press  their 
demands  on  a  political  apparatus  greatly 
concerned  about  setting  precedents  that 
would  involve  the  state  in  a  quagmire  of 
open-ended  legal  and  financial  commit- 
ments. The  cost  has  exceeded  $68  million 
to  date. 

These  dramatic  cases  gave  social  scien- 
tists ample  opportunity  to  explore  classic 
sociological  and  political  themes.  They 
also  presented  a  golden  opportunity  to 
assess  the  promise  of  classical  social  sci- 
ence methods  and  perspectives  for  the 
study  of  technology.  Yet  their  opportunity 
is  at  best  only  partially  realized.  It  is 
unfortunate  that  the  structure  of  Casper 
and  Wellstone 's  account  does  not  provide 
much  latitude  for  post-hoc  analysis  of 
technology  issues  not  anticipated  by  the 
authors.  The  Powerline  case  had  great 
potential,  but  methodological  problems 
limit  what  can  be  done  with  the  account 
beyond  its  immediate  purpose  of  chroni- 
cling the  development  of  the  opposition 
movement. 

Levine 's  greater  familiarity  with  the 
canons  of  qualitative  analysis,  and  the 
observer's  role,  along  with  her  self-con- 
scious application  of  cross-validation  tech- 
niques, helped  her  to  produce  a  more  bal- 
anced account  of  the  incident  in  its  social 
context.  (Casper,  who  we  discover  had  run 
for  state  office  on  the  movement's  party 
ticket,  was  not  as  careful  in  this  regard  and 
became  a  full  participant  in  the  move- 
ment.) The  result  is  that  Levine  produces  a 
more  credible  and  objective  account, 
despite  the  fact  that  both  Casper  and 
Levine  side  with  the  citizens'  groups  in  the 
end,  and  both  focus  their  primary  attention 
on  their  respective  movements,  tactics, 
successes  and  failures. 

These  books  demonstrate  that  the  quali- 
tative side  of  social  science  has  much  to 
offer  those  interested  in  technology  assess- 
ment and  impact  analysis.  Unfortunately, 
much  of  this  promise  will  remain  a  poten- 
tial rather  than  an  actual  contribution 
unless  concerned  technologists  with  inside 
information  about  the  basis  for  technical 
decisions  start  to  produce  high  quality 
accounts  of  this  kind  or  team  up  with 
social  scientists  determined  to  test  and 
cross-check  their  perceptions  systemati- 
cally. 

—John  M.  Wilkes 

Assistant  Professor  of  Social  Science  & 

Policy  Studies 


16       WPI  JOURNAL 


WHY  TEACH? 


Teaching  is  a  red-eye,  sweaty-palm, 


sinking-stomach  profession, 


says  an  experienced  university  professor. 


What  keeps  him  teaching? 


Peter  G.  Beidler,  Lucy  G.  Moses 
Professor  of  English  at  Lehigh  Uni 
versity,  was  named  1983's  Profes- 
sor of  the  Year  by  the  Council  for 
Advancement  and  Support  of  Edu- 
cation (CASE).  A  Chaucerian 
scholar,  he  is  back  at  Lehigh  this 
fall  after  a  year's  sabbatical  in 
Canterbury  at  the  University  of 
Kent  where,  among  other  things, 
he  wrote  a  book  about  Henry 
James's  The  Turn  of  the  Screw. 


W'hy  do  I  teach,  my  friend  asked?  I 
had  just  told  him  that  I  did  not 
want  to  be  considered  for  a  certain 
university  administrative  position.  He  was 
puzzled  that  I  did  not  want  to  realize  my 
full  potential  by  becoming  a  serious  candi- 
date for  what  was  obviously  a  "step  up." 
an  opportunity  to  achieve  what  all  Ameri- 
can boys  are  taught  to  want  when  they 
grow  up:  money  and  power. 

It  may  be,  of  course,  that  I  teach 
because  I  never  did  grow  up.  It  may  be 
that,  as  I  approach  too  rapidly  my  45th 
birthday,  I  find  a  strange  comfort  in  spend- 
ing my  life  among  other  adolescents  who 
have  not  yet  jumped  onto  the  great  upward 
treadmill.  I  confess  that  my  favorite  stu- 
dents are  first-semester  freshmen:  a  little 
afraid,  awed  by  the  prospect  of  really 
learning,  thrilled  to  be  treated  like  adults 
for  the  first  time  in  their  lives,  yet  willing 
to  admit  in  a  candid  moment  that  they 
really  do  not  feel  like  adults.  I  like  those 
first-semester  freshmen  because,  at  least 
early  in  the  semester,  no  one  has  yet  told 
them  about  things  like  rush,  all-night  par- 
ties, guts,  and  how  to  get  through  college 
without  learning  much. 

It  may  be,  then,  that  I  teach  because  I 
feel  at  home  in  the  company  of  people  who 
feel  a  sense  of  wonder— almost  fear- 
about  learning,  who  have  not  yet  quite 
grown  up,  and  who  are  not  entirely  sure 
they  will  be  safe  when  they  have.  But 
surely  that  is  not  the  only  reason  I  teach.  I 
have  grown  up.  I  have  no  desire  whatever 
to  be  a  first-semester  freshman  again.  I  am 
happy  to  leave  the  uncertainty  and  frustra- 
tion of  being  1 8  to  those  who  are  18.  Why, 
then,  do  I  teach? 

My  friend  did  not  really  want  to  know 


why  I  want  to  stay  in  teaching.  He  had 
more  important  things  on  his  mind.  But  / 
want  to  know.  And  if  I  cannot  write  it 
down,  I  do  not  know  it.  So  here  goes. 

Let  me  try  to  be  what  I  tell  my  freshmen 
writers  to  be:  organized.  First,  I  shall  dis- 
cuss some  of  what  are  not  the  reasons  why 
I  teach.  Then,  I  shall  try  to  sort  out  some 
of  what  are  the  reasons. 

I  teach  not  because  teaching  is  easy  for 
me.  Teaching  is  the  most  difficult  of  the 
various  ways  I  have  attempted  to  earn  my 
living:  bulldozer  mechanic,  carpenter,  uni- 
versity administrator,  writer.  For  me, 
teaching  is  a  red-eye,  sweaty-palm,  sink- 
ing-stomach profession.  Red-eye,  because 
I  never  feel  ready  to  teach,  no  matter  how 
late  the  night  before  I  stay  up  preparing. 
Sweaty-palm,  because  I  am  always  ner- 
vous before  I  walk  into  that  classroom, 
sure  that  I  will  be  found  out  for  the  fool 
that  I  am.  Sinking-stomach,  because  I  usu- 
ally walk  out  of  the  clasroom  an  hour  later 
convinced  either  that  my  fly  must  have 
been  unzipped  the  whole  hour,  or  that  I 
was  even  more  boring  than  usual. 

I  teach  not  because  I  am  a  natural-bom 
public  speaker.  I  tend  to  mumble  my  lec- 
tures, fumble  my  facts,  jumble  my  jokes, 
and  stumble  my  interpretations. 

I  teach  not  because  I  think  I  know 
answers,  or  because  I  know  a  body  of 
information  I  feel  driven  to  share  with  oth- 
ers. I  occasionally  take  a  look  at  my  teach- 
ing notes  for  a  work  I  taught  several  years 
earlier  and  am  appalled  at  what  I  see.  Did  I 
really  say  that  about  the  pink  ribbon  in 
"Young  Goodman  Brown"?  Surely  I  did 
not  tell  my  Chaucer  students  that 
Chaucer's  Prioress  is  frustrated  because  as 
a  nun  she  could  never  have  babies.  To 
think  that  my  students  sometimes  actually 
take  notes  on  what  I  say  in  class! 

I  teach  not  because  I  look  handsome  in 
front  of  a  class.  I  look  like  someone  who 
had  Ichabod  Crane  for  a  father  and  Pru- 
dence Pimple  for  a  mother.  I  have  bad  pos- 
ture, thick  glasses,  and  thinning  hair  that 
sticks  out  at  funny  angles.  As  my  sons 
never  tire  of  telling  me.  I  wear  untrendy 
clothes,  even  (shudder)  flares.   Robert 


NOVEMBER  1984       I 


Redford  would  look  natural  in  front  of  a 
class.  I  look  like  something  that  the  mower 
just  kicked  out  from  a  damp  lawn.  Some- 
one videotaped  me  once  as  part  of  a 
"teacher  self-improvement"  project.  I 
wanted  to  improve,  but  I  could  not  bear  to 
watch  to  the  end  of  the  video  replay  over 
in  the  media  center.  It  was  no  fun  seeing 
myself  as  others  had  to  see  me. 

Why,  then,  do  I  teach? 

Come  to  think  of  it,  there  are  lots  of 
reasons  why  I  teach.  I  teach  because  I  like 
the  pace  of  the  academic  calendar.  A  crass 
way  of  putting  it  is  to  repeat  what  one 
sardonic  teacher  replied  when  asked  why 
he  taught:  "I  teach  for  three  reasons:  June, 
July,  and  August."  I  like  June,  July,  and 
August  myself,  but  less  because  they  get 
me  out  of  teaching  than  because  they  offer 
a  change  of  pace,  an  opportunity  to  mix 
rest,  reflection,  research,  and  writing,  all 
key  ingredients  in  my  recipe  for  teaching. 
It  is  not  that  the  summers  are  less  effort.  It 
is  that  they  are  different  effort. 

I  teach  because  teaching  is  a  profession 
built  on  change.  Even  when  the  material  I 
teach  is  the  same,  /change  from  semester 
to  semester,  and,  more  important,  my  stu- 
dents change.  No  two  classes  of  students 
are  alike.  If  I  read  Moby-Dick  one  way  this 
year,  I'll  read  it  another  way  in  two  years. 
If  I  do  read  it  the  same  way,  William  and 
Sally  in  1984  will  be  replaced  by  Thomas 
and  Heather  in  1986,  and  different  stu- 
dents make  the  novel  a  different  experi- 
ence for  all  of  us  who  are  talking  about  it. 

I  teach  because  I  like  the  freedom  to 
make  my  own  mistakes,  to  learn  my  own 
lessons,  to  stimulate  myself  and  my  stu- 
dents in  ways  that  seem  right  to  me  at  the 
time.  As  a  teacher,  I  am  my  own  boss.  If  I 
want— as  I  did  several  years  ago— to  try  a 
creative  writing  course  in  which  my  stu- 
dents analyze  Redbook  magazine  to  see 
what  kind  of  fiction  the  editors  are  buying, 
I  can  do  it.  If  I  then  want  to  urge  my  stu- 
dents to  try  to  write  for  publication  in 
Redbook,  I  can  do  it.  I  do  not  have  a  boss 
telling  me  that  I  must  teach  my  students  to 
write  like  William  Faulkner.  And  if,  as  in 
the  current  semester,  I  want  to  teach  a 


freshman  composition  course  in  which  my 
students  learn  to  write  not  by  reading 
someone  else's  textbook,  but  by  writing 
their  own,  well,  who  is  to  say  I  may  not  do 
it?  The  course  may  be  a  colossal  failure, 
but  we  can  learn— and  our  students  with 
us— from  colossal  failures. 

I  teach  because  I  like  to  ask  questions. 
Although  I  am  often  uncertain  about 
whether  I  know  worthwhile  answers,  and 
am  usually  undistinguished  as  a  lecturer 
giving  students  information,  I  think  I  have 
gotten  better  at  asking  questions  which  are 


good  for  students  who  struggle  to  answer 
them.  The  world  is  full  of  the  right 
answers  to  bad  questions.  I  teach  because 
in  doing  so  I  sometimes  brush  up  against 
good  questions.  This  fall,  for  example,  I 
asked  my  freshman  writing  students  to 
write  an  essay  not  about  the  food  in  the 
university  dining  room,  but  about  the  lone- 
liness only  a  freshman  in  the  first  week 
away  at  college  can  understand. 

I  teach  because  I  like  to  learn.  Indeed,  I 
stay  alive  as  a  teacher  only  so  long  as  I  am 
learning.  One  of  the  major  discoveries  of 


II       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


my  professional  life  is  that  I  teach  best  not 
what  I  know,  but  what  I  want  to  learn. 

There  was  a  time  some  years  ago,  for 
example,  when  I  wanted  to  learn  about  the 
role  of  the  American  Indian  in  our  Ameri- 
can literary  tradition.  I  learned  by  teaching 
a  course  on  the  subject,  by  taking  some 
students  with  me  on  a  pathway  of  discov- 
ery. That  particular  pathway,  incidentally, 
was  to  lead  me  to  a  postdoctoral  fellow- 
ship in  anthropology  at  the  University  of 
Arizona,  and  later  to  a  sabbatical  year  liv- 
ing with  my  family  on  the  Hopi  Indian 
reservation  in  northeastern  Arizona.  And, 
just  last  year,  the  pathway  led  to  my  taking 
another  class  of  students  back  with  me  to 
the  Hopi  reservation  to  interview  some 
Hopi  people.  None  of  that  would  have 
happened  had  I  not  set  off  on  a  quest  for 
knowledge  by  teaching  a  course  on  some- 
thing I  knew  almost  nothing  about. 

I  teach  because  I  enjoy  finding  ways 
within  an  ivory-tower  profession  to  get 
myself  and  my  students  out  of  the  ivory 
tower  from  time  to  time  and  into  the  so- 
called  "real  world."  I  have  already  men- 
tioned the  Redbook  course  and  the  Hopi 
course.  Perhaps  another  example  will 
show  better  what  I  mean.  In  1976  I  taught 
a  course  called  "Self-Reliance  in  a  Tech- 
nological Society."  It  was  in  some  ways  a 
normal  enough  ivory-tower  kind  of 
course.  My  15  students  read  writers  like 
Emerson  and  Thoreau  and  Huxley.  They 
kept  journals.  They  wrote  term  papers. 

But  there  was  a  less  normal  aspect  of  the 
course.  My  students  and  I  also  set  up  a 
corporation,  borrowed  money  from  a  local 
bank,  purchased  a  run-down  house  on 
Vernon  Street  near  the  university,  and 
spent  "lab  sessions"  during  the  semester 
practicing  self-reliance  by  completely  ren- 
ovating the  house.  Then,  at  the  end  of  the 
semester,  we  sold  the  house,  repaid  our 
loan,  paid  our  corporate  income  taxes,  and 
distributed  the  profits  among  the  students. 
Certainly  this  was  not  your  average 
English  course.  To  some  people  it  seemed 
more  appropriate  to  a  vocational-technical 
high  school  than  to  a  respectable  institu- 
tion of  higher  education.   But   15  future 


PETER  BEDLER  ANSWERS 

A  FEW  QUESTIONS  ABOUT  TEACHING 


How  much  freedom  do  you  give  your 
students  to  cut  your  classes? 

Not  much.  I  generally  require  attend- 
ance. Occasionally  something  magical 
happens,  and  I  want  my  students  there 
both  to  experience  the  magic,  and  to  make 
the  magic  happen.  I  let  students  call  me  by 
my  first  name,  but  I  don't  let  them  whisper 
among  themselves  or  read  newspapers  in 
class.  That  is  an  insult  to  me  and  to  the 
other  students,  and  I  see  no  reason  to 
encourage  insulting  behavior.  I  let  them 
sleep  in  class,  if  they  will.  It  is  their  job  to 
get  to  class;  it  is  my  job  to  make  it  worth 
their  while  staying  awake. 

So  teachers  should  be  entertaining? 

Entertaining  is  fine,  if  it  comes  naturally 
to  a  teacher,  and  if  he  or  she  can  be  enter- 
taining without  forgetting  that  teaching  is 
essentially  a  serious  business,  demanding 
serious  thought  about  difficult  subjects.  I 
have  always  liked  teachers  who  were 
enthusiastic  about  their  subject  better  than 
those  who  entertained  in  less  honest  ways. 

How  do  you  prepare  for  your  classes? 

Long  and  late.  I  try  to  think  of  every 
question  that  will  bring  from  my  students 
answers  they  will  remember.  But  I  try  to 
keep  in  mind  also  certain  basic  points  or 
subjects  I  want  to  make  sure  my  questions 
bring  out. 

What  effect  do  you  think  television  has 
had  on  education? 

A  generally  depressing  one,  I  am  afraid. 
It  is  not  merely  that  young  people  who  are 
watching  television  are  not  reading  or 
making  their  own  entertainment.  It  is  more 
that  television  trains  viewers  to  receive 
rather  than  give,  to  observe  rather  than 
participate.  Oh,  I  am  aware  that  there  are 


many  fine  "educational"  programs  on  TV. 
Education  is  not  something  one  observes, 
however;  it  is  something  one  does.  And 
just  as  I  seldom  lecture  in  my  own  classes, 
so  I  seldom  see  a  television  program  that 
involves  viewers  in  the  wonderfully  active 
process  of  learning.  I'd  rather  a  child  wan- 
dered for  one  day  in  the  wilderness  than 
watched  a  documentary  on  the  migration 
patterns  of  deer. 

Are  there  any  unpardonable  sins  in 
teaching,  any  sins  which  students  ought 
not  to  forgive? 

Lots.  One  is  laziness.  Students  know 
when  a  teacher  is  not  working  hard  at 
teaching,  and  rightfully  resent  it.  Another 
is  being  bored  and  boring.  Learning  is  the 
most  exciting  thing  in  life,  next  perhaps  to 
falling  in  love.  A  third  sin  grows  out  of  the 
other  two:  Teachers  who  think  that  teach- 
ing is  merely  a  question  of  conveying  what 
they  have  learned  are  probably  both  lazy 
and  boring.  Teachers  who  have  forgotten 
what  the  thrill  of  discovery  feels  like  ought 
to  go— at  least  temporarily— into  a  new 
field  where  they  are  forced  to  experience 
that  thrill  firsthand. 

Do  good  teachers  also  need  to  be  good 
publishing  scholars? 

Teaching  and  scholarship  are  intimately 
related.  Both  teachers  and  scholars  need  to 
know  how  to  ask  good  questions  and  offer 
sensible  answers.  Both  need  to  know  first- 
hand the  thrill  both  of  discovery  and  of 
introducing  new  concepts  to  strangers. 
The  best  teachers  I  have  had— Wayne 
Booth  and  Burke  Severs— have  also  been 
the  most  solid  and  steady  scholars.  Most 
teachers  who  get  stale  in  the  classroom  are 
also  stale  as  scholars.  They  have  stopped 
discovering. 


NOVEMBER  1984       III 


lawyers  and  accountants  and  English 
teachers  and  industrialists,  many  of  whom 
had  never  had  a  tool  in  their  hands  before, 
suddenly  found  themselves  reading  Tho- 
reau's  Walden  with  fresh  eyes.  They  knew 
why  Thoreau  went  to  the  woods,  how  he 
built  his  cabin,  and  why  he  felt  so  good 
about  his  experiment  that  he  wanted  to  tell 
the  world  about  it.  They  also  knew  why,  in 
the  end,  he  left  the  woods  and  the  cabin  to 
try  other  ventures.  He  had  tasted  the 
waters  of  Walden  Pond.  It  was  time  to 
move  on  to  other  nectars. 

I  teach  because  teaching  gives  me  many 
nectars  to  taste  of,  many  woods  to  enter 
and  then  leave,  many  fine  books  to  read, 
and  many  ivory  towers  and  real  world 
experiences  to  discover.  Teaching  gives 
me  pace  and  variety  and  challenge  and  the 
opportunity  to  keep  on  learning. 

I  have  left  out,  however,  the  most 
important  reasons  why  I  teach. 

One  reason  is  Vicky.  My  first  doctoral 
student,  Vicky  was  a  somewhat  noisy, 
enthusiastic,  energetic  young  bubble  who 
had  trouble  seeing  past  the  thrill  of  litera- 
ture to  the  rigor  of  academic  scholarship. 
But  she  plugged  away  at  her  dissertation 
on  a  little-known  14th-century  poet.  And, 
while  still  in  graduate  school,  she  ham- 
mered out  a  couple  of  articles  and  sent 
them  off  to  learned  journals.  And  she 
started  applying  for  jobs,  entering  a  slug- 
gish market  in  which  the  few  job  openings 
were  both  depressing  and  avidly  sought 
after  by  the  hordes  of  bright  young  PhDs 
who  found  them  so  depressing.  Vicky  did 
it  all  herself,  with  only  an  occasional  smile 
or  nudge  from  me,  but  I  was  there  when 
she  finished  her  dissertation,  got  word  that 
those  two  articles  were  accepted,  and 
landed  her  job.  And  I  was  there  a  couple  of 
months  ago  when  I  got  her  letter  saying 
she  had  won  a  National  Endowment  for 
the  Humanities  fellowship  to  spend  a  year 
at  Harvard  working  on  a  book  further 
developing  some  of  the  ideas  she  had  ger- 
minated as  a  graduate  student. 

Another  reason  is  Patti.  Smart,  opinion- 
ated, and  brash,  Patti  raked  in  the  As. 
started  up  a  local  chapter  of  a  national 


English  honor  society,  went  on  to  law 
school.  Now  a  lawyer  for  the  Department 
of  Environmental  Resources,  she  is  still 
smart,  still  opinionated,  and  still  brash  as 
she  gives  industrial  violators  of  the  Clean 
Air  Act  a  hard  time.  I  was  there  the  day 
she  came  into  my  office  and  told  me  about 
Rob. 

There  is  Greg.  Sensitive  and  creative, 
Greg  majored  in  English  as  a  stepping 
stone  to  becoming  a  novelist.  I  was  there 
last  fall  when  he  wrote  asking  whether, 
bored  with  clerking  in  a  bookstore,  he 
would  be  making  a  mistake  to  apply  for  a 
teaching  assistantship  in  a  graduate 
English  program  somewhere.  It  does  not 
matter  that  I  told  him  if  /  really  wanted  to 
be  a  novelist,  I  would  go  to  sea  for  a  year. 
It  does  matter  that  I  was  there  when  he 
started  asking  himself  the  right  questions. 

There  is  Julie.  Julie  was  sure  she  was 
not  a  good  student,  but  her  kids  were 
growing  up  and  she  asked  if  she  could  sit 
in  on  one  of  my  classes  (but  not  for  credit) 
to  see  if  she  was  college  material.  I  told 
her  she  could,  provided  she  came  to  all 
classes,  did  all  the  work,  and  took  all  the 
tests.  I  was  there  when,  right  after  the  first 
test,  she  came  in  and,  weeping,  apolo- 
gized because  she  knew  she  had  failed  it, 
even  though  she  had  studied  for  it  night 
and  day  for  two  weeks.  It  does  not  matter 
that  I  later  had  the  task  of  telling  her  she 
had  gotten  a  low  D,  not  an  F,  or  that  on  the 
next  test  she  got  a  solid  B.  It  does  not 
matter  that  in  the  end  she  decided  against 
college  after  all.  It  does  matter  that  I  was 
there  when  she  asked. 

There  is  Jeanne.  Jeanne  used  to  sit 
cross-legged  on  the  other  chair  in  my 
office.  She  started  to  run  away  from  col- 
lege, but  some  of  her  classmates  brought 
her  back  because  they  wanted  her  to  be 
around  when  we  all  finished  the  self-reli- 
ance house  on  Vernon  Street.  I  was  there 
when  she  came  back.  I  was  there  when  she 
graduated. 

There  is  George,  who  still  sends  me  sar- 
donic Christmas  cards  showing,  for  exam- 
ple, Santa  Claus  caught  in  a  mouse  trap  in 
the  pantry  on  Christmas  eve. 


There  is  Lois,  who  married  a  bee  farmer 
and  has  three  babies  and  is  delighted  that 
she  majored  in  English. 

There  is  Jacqui,  a  cleaning  lady  who 
knows  by  intuition  more  than  most  of  us 
ever  learn  by  analysis,  who  has  just 
decided  to  finish  high  school  and  go  to 
college. 

There  is  Nadine,  who  needs  to  borrow 
$  1 ,000  from  each  of  10  people  to  keep  that 
little  publishing  company  afloat. 

These  are  the  real  reasons  I  teach,  these 
people  who  grow  and  change  in  my  pres- 
ence. Being  a  teacher  is  being  there,  being 
present  at  the  creation,  when  the  clay 
begins  to  breathe.  I  take  no  credit  for  the 
moment  of  life,  but  I  can  think  of  nothing 
more  exciting  than  being  somewhere 
nearby  when  the  breathing  begins. 

A  "promotion"  out  of  teaching  would  give 
me  money  and  power.  But  I  have  money. 
As  a  teacher  I  get  paid  for  doing  the  kinds 
of  things  I  enjoy  most:  reading  books, 
talking  with  people,  making  discoveries, 
and  asking  questions  like,  "What  is  the 
point  of  being  rich?" 

And  I  have  power.  I  have  the  power  to 
nudge,  to  fan  sparks,  to  ask  troubling 
questions,  to  praise  an  attempted  answer, 
to  condemn  hiding  from  the  truth,  to  sug- 
gest books,  to  point  out  a  pathway.  What 
other  power  matters?  Who  besides  a 
teacher  has  so  much  power? 

There  is  one  other  enticement  that  teach- 
ing offers  besides  money  and  power.  It  is 
love.  Not  only  the  love  of  learning  and 
books  and  ideas,  but  also  the  love  a 
teacher  feels  for  that  rare  student,  that  one 
student  who  walks  into  the  life  of  a  teacher 
every  year  or  two  or  three,  that  student 
whom  teachers  get  to  see  begin  to  breathe. 
It  is  not  romantic  love,  though  it  can  easily 
be  mistaken  for  that.  It  is  not  filial  love, 
for  these  are  not  one's  children.  Perhaps 
love  is  not  the  right  word  for  that  sense  of 
magic  I  refer  to. 

Whatever  it  is  called,  I  teach  because, 
being  around  people  who  are  beginning  to 
breathe,  I  occasionally  find  myself  catch- 
ing my  breath  with  them. 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


CLASS  ACTS 


A  look  at  four  professors  and  their  professorial 
methods — with  borrowings  from  Socrates  and 
closed-circuit  TV— makes  one  thing  plain:  Good 
teachers  are  hard  to  define,  easy  to  recognize. 


By  Joe  Levine 


Walter  Eppenstein,  RPI 


Nancy  McDowell,  Franklin  and  Marshall 


WALTER 
EPPENSTEIN 

E  He  turns  Physics  11 
I  lectures  into 
polished  productions. 

Sometimes  a  movie  is  produced  so 
well  that  people  say  afterward,  "I 
would  have  enjoyed  it  for  the  camera 
work  alone."  Walter  Eppenstein 's  weekly 
Physics  II  lecture  is  that  kind  of  show.  It 
plays  at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute 
every  day  except  Friday,  and  regularly 
draws  a  crowd  of  500.  It  features  the 
short,  dark  figure  of  Professor  Eppenstein, 
conducting  demonstrations  at  the  front  of 
the  theater.  It  also  features  him  on  the  two 
giant  television  screens  hanging  in  the 
front  wings.  And  on  the  four  hanging  from 
the  ceiling  way  in  the  back,  and  the  two 
that  span  the  middle.  Portions  of  him— his 
fingers,  pointing  a  Venus  No.  2  pencil  at  a 
series  of  equations— can  also  be  glimpsed 
on  four  enormous  overhead  projector 
screens. 

Eppenstein  is  not  an  egomaniac,  he's  a 
realist.  In  a  lecture  hall  large  enough  to 
hold  500  people,  a  blackboard  and  a 
pointer  simply  won't  do.  Students  need  to 
be  able  to  follow  every  step  of  the  ex- 
tremely complicated  equations;  to  be  able 
to  watch  experiments  involving  minute 
pieces  of  equipment.  Eppenstein's  projec- 
tion of  himself  from  every  corner  is  done 
surely  in  the  interests  of  accessibility. 


But  the  sophisticated  video  equipment 
is,  in  another  very  important  sense,  a  re- 
flection of  the  man  himself:  he  created  it. 

"You  can't  simply  go  out  and  buy  edu- 
cational equipment  of  this  kind,  because 
quite  often  it  doesn't  exist,"  Eppenstein 
says.  "You  have  to  design  it  yourself." 

Thus  even  the  one-time  visitor  to  Phys- 
ics II  is  assured  of  seeing  Eppenstein's 
most  important  contributions  to  his  field: 
the  equipment  with  which  he's  teaching. 
He  designed,  and  pioneered  the  use  of,  the 
large-size  overhead  projector,  now  com- 
monly used  in  science  lecture  courses  at 
colleges  around  the  country.  He  was  the 
first  lecturer  in  his  field,  25  years  ago,  to 
make  use  of  "transparencies,"  projector 
slides  of  clear  plastic,  bearing  equations 
written  in  brightly  contrasting  colors.  He 
also  developed  a  popular  series  of  experi- 
ments for  lecture  hall  use,  and  then  minia- 
turized all  the  equipment  so  that  it  can 
be  filmed  by  a  closed-circuit  television 
camera. 

His  students  don't  take  the  technology 
for  granted.  "The  lectures  and  demonstra- 
tions are  really  easy  to  follow,  and  that's 
the  most  important  part  of  the  course," 
says  Robert  Seretny,  '87.  "He's  even  got  a 
lot  of  the  lecture  material  on  file  in  the 
library,  so  that  you  don't  miss  anything 
taking  notes." 

Step  into  a  lab  section  of  Physics  II,  and 
you  can  see  more  of  Eppenstein's  handi- 
work. Each  student's  lab  station  is 
equipped  with  a  microcomputer  for  instant 
tabulation  of  data;  the  microcomputers  are 
in  turn  hooked  up  to  a  central  Apple  termi- 
nal that  can  analyze  data  for  the  class  as  a 
whole. 

"We  still  make  students  run  some  exper- 
iments without  computers,  so  they  don't 
lose  touch  with  what  it  is  they're  actually 
doing,"  Eppenstein  says.  "But  obviously 
the  computers  save  a  great  deal  of  time." 

Eppenstein  is  that  rarity  among  tenured 
faculty  at  any  university:  the  professor 
who  has  devoted  himself  entirely  to  qual- 
ity teaching.  His  research  and  publications 
are  numerous,  but  nearly  all  are  concerned 
with  improved  teaching  methodology  in 


NOVEMBER  1984       V 


his  field.  In  the  list  of  his  journal  publica- 
tions, titles  such  as  "The  Use  of  An  Over- 
head Projector  in  Demonstrations  before 
Large  Groups"  and  "More  Visual  Aids  for 
the  Physics  Lecture"  abound. 

"I've  always  felt  that  students  should 
get  the  best  possible  teaching,  because 
they're  certainly  paying  enough  tuition  for 
it,"  he  says.  "Our  department  is  a  good 
one,  in  that  it  has  some  people  who  spe- 
cialize in  research  and  some  who  special- 
ize in  teaching.  I've  always  happened  to 
be  good  with  teaching  and  people,  so  I've 
stuck  with  those  interests." 

Eppenstein.  on  first  meeting,  seems 
more  the  absent-minded  laboratory  physi- 
cist than  he  does  the  departmental  hub  of 
communication  with  students.  He  is  short, 
bespectacled,  and  speaks  with  a  German 
accent.  He  grew  up  in  Turkey,  after  flee- 
ing Hitler's  government,  and  was  educated 
at  Robert  College,  an  American  institution 
there.  He  was  originally  an  electrical  engi- 
neering student;  he  got  into  physics  when 
the  college  had  a  teaching  position  open  in 
that  department. 


"Things  just  sort  of  happened  that  way," 
he  says.  "I  have  no  regrets." 

He  came  to  the  States  in  1947  and  took  a 
job  at  RPI  that  same  year.  Since  then,  he 
has  been  increasingly  involved  with  the 
quality  of  student  life— and  not  just 
through  his  work  on  teaching  aids. 

"At  this  point.  I  wear  a  lot  of  hats,"  he 
says,  somewhat  ruefully.  He  is  the  director 
of  Physics  II  ("One  thousand  students  and 
19  instructors  need  an  arbiter  for  their  dif- 
ferences, and  I'm  it.");  director  of  advis- 
ing and  counseling  for  all  physics  students 
(last  spring,  he  received  RPI's  Darrin 
award  for  counseling):  special  advisor  to 
transfer  students;  supervisor  of  industry 
internships:  and.  to  top  it  all  off.  associate 
chairman  of  the  Physics  Department. 

"Budget-wise,  that  means  I'm  supposed 
to  spend  half  my  time  on  administrative 
stuff  and  half  on  academic."  he  says.  "In 
reality,  it  works  out  that  I  spend  three- 
fourths  of  my  time  on  each." 

Eppenstein.  an  evangelist  for  his  field, 
is  especially  concerned  about  the  ever- 
widening  split  between  the  sciences  and 


the  humanities.  "These  days,  the  average 
science  student  has  some  background  in 
the  humanities,  or  at  least  the  ability  to 
acquire  some— but  students  in  the  humani- 
ties have  less  and  less  training  in  the  sci- 
ences and.  consequently,  less  ability  to  get 
any  if  they  want  to." 

Along  with  other  faculty  at  RPI.  he  has 
tackled  the  problem  at  its  roots,  outside  the 
confines  of  the  university,  in  the  local  pub- 
lic-school system.  They've  proposed  to 
the  National  Science  Foundation  that  the 
traditional  high-school  curriculum  be 
reversed,  and  the  idea  is  being  tested  at  a 
high  school  in  Troy.  "We're  having  them 
teach  physics  in  ninth  grade,  chemistry  in 
tenth,  and  biology  in  eleventh,  on  the  the- 
ory that  this  forms  a  better  knowledge 
base."  Eppenstein  says.  "We're  also  com- 
puterizing the  lab  experiments  the  way  we 
have  here,  so  students  get  a  feel  for  that 
kind  of  equipment  at  a  very  young  age." 

But  perhaps  the  most  successful  strategy 
the  RPI  physicists  have  employed  in  win- 
ning youthful  converts  is  The  Magic 
Show.  "Every  January,  we  give  demon- 
stration lectures  to  high-school  students— 
we  bussed  in  1.500  of  them  this  year," 
Eppenstein  says.  "The  shows  consist  of 
typical  physics  experiments,  but  ones  that 
look  fairly  spectacular  to  audiences." 
There  are  laser  displays,  nitrogen -dipped 
rings  leaping  off  magnets  at  the  flick  of  a 
switch  to  fly  up  to  the  ceiling,  and  rockets 
shot  off  across  lecture  halls.  The  shows 
have  an  immediate  practical  value:  "Quite 
frankly,  they  keep  the  kids  awake,"  he 
says.  But  they  also  bring  some  color  and 
excitement  into  a  discipline  which,  Eppen- 
stein feels,  too  often  neglects  to  convey 
what  is  exciting  about  itself. 

"When  I  was  younger.  I  always  tinkered 
and  built  things  on  my  own.  but  there  was 
no  teacher  who  ever  really  stirred  my 
interest."  he  says.  "I  wish  I'd  been 
exposed  to  these  kinds  of  demonstrations, 
but  it  was  war  time  and  the  quality  of  the 
education  just  wasn't  that  good.  When  you 
leam  a  lot  of  things  by  memorizing,  you 
tend  to  forget  them,  but  you  remember 
these  shows  years  later." 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


CARLTON 
STAPLES 

He  is  happiest  when 
he  can  teach 
hands-on  projects. 


Like  medical  students  scratching  their 
heads  over  their  first  flesh  and  blood 
patients,  the  aspiring  engineers  in 
Mechanical  Design  Applications  have  run 
into  a  problem  beyond  the  scope  of  theory. 
A  memo  from  'The  Boss*'  directs  each  of 
them  to  submit  a  design  for  the  same  kind 
of  speed  gear  reducer  unit— a  machine  part 
which  slows  down  a  spinning  shaft— that 
"The  Company"  has  been  buying  for 
years  for  use  in  its  pulverizing  mills.  (It 
seems  the  supplier  has  upped  his  prices.) 
The  Boss  wants  the  entire  unit  designed  in 
the  shop,  with  the  exception  of  the  worm 
and  the  worm  wheel  gears:  these  can  be  pur- 
chased from  the  buyer's  catalog.  The  Boss 
means  business:  it  is  Friday,  and  he  wants 
the  designs  on  his  desk  at  Worcester  Poly- 
technic  Institute  by   Monday   afternoon. 

"Oh,  come  on."  groans  Paul  Furtado. 
'85.  as  he  sweats  over  the  drawing  on  his 
desk.  "Sometimes  I  think  half  of  what 
we've  learned  since  freshman  year  doesn't 
apply  in  this  course." 

The  Boss  is  not  unsympathetic  to  this 
problem. 

"I  know  it's  a  frustrating  course  for 
them,"  says  Professor  Carlton  W. 
("Spike")  Staples.  "It's  the  first  time 
they've  had  to  deal  with  practical  prob- 
lems after  all  the  theory.  They've  gotten  so 
used  to  plugging  in  formulas  and  getting 
exact  solutions  that  they've  forgotten  how 
to  use  common  sense." 

Spike  Staples  is  a  softer  boss  than  the 
hard  edges  of  his  name  might  suggest,  and 
"Monday  afternoon"  readily  becomes 
Wednesday  for  those  having  troubles  with 


the  speed  reducer  unit. 

"He's  tough  and  fair,  and  all  that,  but  at 
heart,  he's  really  a  pussycat,"  one  student 
says.  "I  don't  think  you'll  find  anyone 
who  doesn't  like  him." 

At  59,  Staples  still  has  a  military  crisp- 
ness  to  his  bearing  (he  saw  active  duty  in 
World  War  II  and  Korea),  but  it  is  offset 
by  the  mild,  amused  air  of  a  teacher  who 
for  36  years  has  watched  students  grapple 
with  their  first  "open-ended"  problems. 
"Design  is  a  gray  world;  it's  not  an  exact 
science."  he  reflects  after  class.  "So  many 
of  the  decisions  a  designer  has  to  make  are 
on  the  basis  of  gut  feeling.  I  can  help  stu- 
dents intelligently  approach  the  choices 
they  have  to  make,  but  I  can't  choose  for 
them.  In  that  sense,  they're  on  their  own. 
and  it's  tough." 

On  Friday.  Staples  takes  the  class 
through  the  different  steps  of  designing  the 
speed  gear  unit.  There  is  no  single  right 
way  to  do  it.  and  the  important  thing 
seems  to  be  knowing  what  to  think  about 
when  you  choose.  Efficiency  and  budget 
are  the  big  concerns  in  a  business  situa- 


tion, and  Staples,  whose  own  designs  for 
industry  run  from  bottle  labeling  to  textile 
manufacturing,  is  not  about  to  let  his  aspir- 
ing engineers  forget  either  concern.  Like 
their  professional  counterparts,  the  stu- 
dents are  required  to  keep  engineering 
notes,  explaining  all  their  decisions. 

For  instance,  a  shaft  has  to  be  fitted 
through  the  hole  in  the  hub  of  the  worm 
gear.  The  hole  is  a  stock  size  (remember, 
the  worm  gear  is  being  ordered  from  the 
catalog)  larger  than  the  corresponding 
shaft  needed  to  transmit  the  necessary 
amount  of  torque.  There  are  a  couple  of 
alternatives:  the  engineer  can  either 
"machine  down"  the  shaft,  leaving  just  a 
shoulder  that  would  fit  the  hole:  or  he  can 
"bush"  the  hole  down  to  mate  with  a 
smaller  shaft  (a  bushing  is  a  liner  that  fills 
the  space  between  the  shaft  and  the  hole). 

"Does  anybody  want  to  venture  an  opin- 
ion on  which  way  to  go?"  Staples  prods 
the  class.  They  are  all  silent,  perhaps  fear- 
ful of  the  horrible  foul-ups  in  the  pulveriz- 
ing mills  that  result  from  wrong  choices. 
"Look,  both  are  viable  alternatives."  he 


NOVEMBER  NS4       VII 


reassures  them.  "Come  on,  somebody." 

A  student  raises  his  hand.  'Td  use  the 
bushing." 

"Good.  Why?" 

"It's  cheaper  than  machining  down  the 
shafts." 

"Good.  Why  else?" 

Genuine  puzzlement  this  time.  "Two 
separate  parts  reduce  the  stress  concentra- 
tion," Staples  answers  himself,  after  let- 
ting the  class  sweat  for  a  minute  or  two. 

Similar  choices  follow.  How  should  the 
bushing  be  secured  to  the  shaft — glue,  or 
mechanical  fitting? 

"Whichever  you  choose,  do  not  say 
'glue,' "  Staples  says  sternly.  "  'Glue'  is 
a  term  that  has  horrified  everyone.  Say 
'Loctite,'  or  'Permabond,'  and  it's  more 
acceptable." 

A  key-fitting  allows  for  easier  disassem- 
bly in  the  event  of  problems.  But  should  it 
be  a  Woodruff  key,  a  Gibb  Head,  or  a 
square  key? 

And  so  on.  The  choices  multiply.  Sta- 
ples brings  new  ones  to  the  class's  atten- 
tion periodically,  pacing  the  room  and 
answering  questions  as  the  students  labor 
over  their  designs. 

"I've  grown  increasingly  disenchanted 
with  myself  as  the  great  lecturing  ham,"  he 
says  later.  "These  are  essentially  work 
sessions.  I'm  there  to  guide  students,  to 
interject  information  as  they  need  it, 
instead  of  trying  to  stuff  a  whole  mass  of  it 
into  their  notes  and  memories— where  it 
will  disappear  after  24  hours." 

Staples  is  happiest  when  he  can  teach 
entirely  through  hands-on  projects, 
answering  questions  as  they  come  up. 
"We  all  know  that  learning  by  doing  is 
best,"  he  said.  "Unfortunately,  it  can't 
always  be  that  way,  because  you  still  get 
down  to  a  certain  base  of  information  that 
has  to  be  transferred  into  students'  brains 
before  they  can  work  effectively.  They've 
got  to  understand  the  formulas  they're 
using,  or  it  could  be  very  dangerous— 
we'd  have  a  hell  of  a  lot  of  incorrect  appli- 
cations of  theory." 

One  place  where  he  can  completely 
avoid  being  "boxed  in"  by  the  need  to 


lecture  is  WPI's  Project  Center  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  Twice  in  the  past  10  years. 
Staples  has  spent  a  semester  at  the  center, 
supervising  Interactive  Qualifying  Proj- 
ects. The  IQPs  give  students  a  chance  to 
tackle  the  "real-life"  problems— often 
non-engineering  in  nature— of  companies, 
federal  agencies,  and  special-interest 
groups.  Staples  is  quick  to  point  out  that 
many  engineering  students  will  end  up 
doing  exactly  this  kind  of  work.  "If  you 
look  at  the  high-management  positions  in  a 
lot  of  companies,"  he  says,  "they're  often 
filled  by  people  who  have  gone  the  engi- 
neering route,  without  even  necessarily 
getting  an  MBA."  The  common  denomi- 
nator with  mechanical  design  is  the  prob- 
lem-solving approach,  and  Staples  says 
that  students  doing  their  IQPs  often  realize 
for  the  first  time  the  full  value  of  courses 
like  Mechanical  Design  Applications. 

"Maybe  they'll  never  do  any  practical 
board  designing,  but  they've  learned  to 
use  the  engineering  process,"  he  says. 
"They  know  how  to  develop  empirical 
relationships  which  allow  them  to  plug 
data  into  an  information  base.  It's  a  trans- 
ferable skill." 

Staples,  who  prefers  working  with 
undergraduates  because  "you  can  do  more 
for  them,"  was  voted  WPI's  Outstanding 
Teacher  in  1979  by  both  students  and 
faculty. 

"I  prefer  teaching  to  working  in  industry 
because  teaching  doesn't  box  you  in,"  he 
says.  "It's  always  different.  Students 
change,  they  never  approach  things  the 
same  way  as  the  last  bunch,  and  they  make 
me  change  strategies  and  assignments.  I 
like  to  say  that  this  has  been  an  experimen- 
tal course  for  the  last  36  years." 

His  strongest  suit  as  a  professor  is  the 
obvious  personal  enjoyment  he  brings  to 
the  work.  He  thinks  solving  problems  is  fun. 

"You  should  really  like  this  course."  the 
syllabus  promises  students  in  his  Design  of 
Machine  Elements  class.  "Come  on  in  and 
enjoy  the  logic  and  freedom  of  design." 
The  "freedom"  of  open-ended  design 
problems— the  uncertainty  and  seeming 
imprecision  which  irritate  and  frazzle  new 


students  schooled  in  rigid  mathematical 
formulas— is  what  turns  him  on. 

"I  think  you  added  wrong  there."  a  stu- 
dent says  crossly  while  Staples  is  demon- 
strating stress  factor  calculations  on  the 
blackboard. 

"So  I  did."  replies  The  Boss,  unfazed. 
He  corrects  the  mistake. 

"A  lot  of  professors  do  that,"  whispers 
Walt  McConaghy,  '85.  "Just  remember, 
he's  designed  gears  you'd  need  a  PhD  to 
understand." 

ROBERT 
MANSBACH 

His  classroom  is  a 
battleground  for  opinions 
on  controversial  topics. 

It's  the  kind  of  story  most  of  us  label  a 
soap  opera  situation  and  then  promptly 
forget,  glad  we're  not  the  ones  who 
have  to  pass  judgment: 

Dr.  Daniel  Fremont  had  first  treated  Fran- 
cine  for  a  broken  jaw  when  she  was  1 1 
years  old.  He  suspected  child  abuse,  but 
could  not  prove  it.  and  concluded  that 
reporting  it  would  only  cause  the  girl  more 
problems  at  home.  Seven  years  later, 
Francine,  pregnant  as  the  result  of  a  casual 
affair  in  college,  visited  Fremont,  now  a 
practicing  obstetrician  and  gynecologist, 
and  asked  him  for  an  abortion.  Fremont 
learned  she  had  indeed  been  abused  and 
molested  by  her  father  when  she  was  a 
child.  He  performed  the  abortion  because 
she  seemed  mentally  on  a  fine  edge. 

A  number  of  years  after  that,  Fremont's 
best  friend,  Tom,  a  devout  Roman  Catho- 
lic, fell  in  love  with  Francine,  and  she 
became  pregnant.  He  convinced  her  to 
marry  him  and  have  the  child,  and  he  per- 
suaded Fremont  to  take  her  on  as  a  patient. 


VIII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


However.  Francine  told  Fremont  privately 
that  she  didn't  want  the  child  and  was 
afraid  she  might  harm  it:  she  asked  for 
another  abortion,  and  begged  him  to  tell 
Tom  it  was  for  medical  reasons. 

Fremont  refused,  the  couple  was  mar- 
ried, the  child  was  born;  a  year  later,  Fran- 
cine  killed  it  with  a  blow  to  the  head. 
When  Tom  understood  the  full  story,  he 
made  an  unsuccessful  attempt  at  suicide. 
He  later  asked  Fremont,  "Why  didn't  you 
tell  me  about  Francine?" 

The  Hartwick  College  students  in  Profes- 
sor Robert  Mansbach's  Biomedical  Ethics 
course— most  of  them  future  nurses— 
couldn't  just  forget  this  story,  because  it 
was  the  sort  of  situation  they  might  one 
day  encounter  professionally.  It  was  also 
their  mid-term  exam. 

They  had  to  answer,  not  once  but  three 
times,  the  question  of  whether  Fremont 
had  acted  ethically  in  his  dealings  with 
Francine.  Had  he  acted  ethically  in  the 
view  of  a  Roman  Catholic  teleologist— 


that  is,  were  his  actions  consistent  with  his 
vision  of  an  ultimate  goodness  that  is  God, 
even  if  the  situation  had  shifted  to  chal- 
lenge his  natural  law  principles?  Had  he 
acted  ethically  in  the  view  of  a  Kantian 
deontologist— that  is,  did  he  keep  inflexi- 
bly to  certain  principles,  regardless  of  the 
final  consequences?  And,  most  important, 
had  he  acted  ethically  in  the  view  of  the 
students  themselves? 

"The  reason  for  studying  Kant  and 
Roman  Catholic  natural  law  is  so  the  stu- 
dents will  see  that  there  are  people  out 
there  who  have  formulated  approaches  to 
problems  like  these,"  says  Mansbach.  a 
54-year-old  Lutheran  pastor.  "I'm  not  ask- 
ing them  to  choose  one  of  these 
approaches,  just  to  learn  how  to  go  about 
building  their  own.  If  they  come  out  of  the 
course  with  the  self-knowledge  to  do  that. 
I'm  satisfied." 

Self-knowledge,  Mansbach  says,  begins 
with  recognizing  that  one  may  already  be 
a  deontologist  or  a  teleologist.  "I  write 
down  some  of  the  things  students  say  at 


the  beginning  of  the  course— value-laden 
statements  like  'This  is  wrong'  or  T 
couldn't  do  that'— which  they've  never 
really  examined  before.  I  try  to  help  them 
see  that  underlying  these  statements  is  usu- 
ally a  fairly  consistent  ethical  approach." 

Mansbach  is  tall  and  stooping,  with  an 
air  of  gentleness  further  suggested  on  this 
rainy  day  by  gray  tweeds  and  a  forest- 
green  turtleneck.  He  looks  a  bit  like  the 
actor  McLean  Stevenson,  and  pokes  the 
same  kind  of  quiet  fun  as  Stevenson's 
character  on  M*A*S*H*,  Col.  Henry 
Blake,  who  presides  unflappably  over  the 
polemics  of  his  eccentric  crew. 

"How  about  that  rain.  Professor  Mans- 
bach?" a  passing  student  says  in  the 
cafeteria. 

"Forty  days  and  forty  nights,"  the  pastor 
replies  amiably. 

Mansbach  needs  his  easygoing  style. 
His  classroom  is  a  battleground  for  opin- 
ions on  controversial  topics,  and  his  job  is 
both  to  fan  the  flames  and  to  keep  the  bat- 
tles bloodless.  In  the  class  discussion  of 


NOVEMBER  1984       IX 


the  Fremont  case,  he  divides  his  students 
into  two  groups,  those  who  think  that  the 
doctor  acted  ethically,  and  those  who  dis- 
agree. Each  group  must  decide  upon  the 
principles  and  goals  underlying  its  posi- 
tion, then  present  them  to  the  opposition. 
Discussion  leaders  emerge  bv  a  process  of 
natural  selection  as  the  ga>ups  hammer  out 
an  internal  consensus.  Mansbach  plays  the 
role  of  facilitator  as  he  walks  back  and 
forth  between  the  two  camps. 

He  leans  over  the  circle  of  Fremont's 
supporters,  who  are  having  trouble  finding 
a  starting  point  for  their  set  of  arguments. 
"Wh\  don't  you  consider  each  of  his  deci- 
sions as  separate  cases,  and  isolate  the 
principles  involved  in  each  of  them1"  he 
suggests.  To  the  students  engaged  in  con- 
demning Fremont:  "The  law  requiring 
anyone  with  knowledge  of  child  abuse  to 
report  it  was  not  yet  in  effect.  He  wasn't 
legally  bound  to  do  anything." 

Once  the  debate  gets  under  way.  how- 
ever. Mansbach  throws  a  wrench  in  the 
works  at  even,  available  opportunity,  even 
at  points  when  the  students  seeming!)  get 
sidetracked  onto  other  issues. 

"What  I  want  to  know  is.  how  can  you 
be  so  concerned  about  his  role  in  the 
baby's  death  if  you  don't  consider  abortion 
as  a  kind  of  murder?"  a  woman  in  a  red 
sw  eater  demands  suddenh . 

There  is  an  uneasy  silence,  punctured  by 
a  groan  from  the  back  of  the  room.  "Uh- 
oh."  someone  whispers. 

"Come  on.  now ."  a  blond  woman  in  the 
pro-Fremont  camp  sa>s.  "were  not  dis- 
cussing whether  the  government  can  tell  a 
woman  w  hat  to  do  w  ith  her  bodv  ." 

Most  eves  turn  to  Mansbach  in  a  mute 
appeal  for  rescue  from  this  digression. 

"Gee.  I  don't  know."  he  says  thought- 
full}.  "Are  >ou  saying,  then,  that  a  fetus  is 
a  part  of  a  woman's  body?  Like  an  arm  or 
a  leg?" 

For  the  next  15  minutes,  he  lets  the  class 
debate  the  complexities  of  the  abortion 
question.  At  a  particularlv  heated 
moment,  however,  he  finally  holds  up  his 
hand.  "It  looks  as  if  you're  all  saving  that 
you'll  have  to  decide  how  you  feel  about 


abortion  before  \ou  tackle  the  issues  in 
this  case." 

The  back  and  forth  of  the  classroom  dis- 
cussion is  what  Mansbach  thrives  on.  and 
it  seems  to  be  the  most  important  reason 
he  is  a  full-time  professor  and  only  a  pan- 
time  pastor.  (He  still  shares  the  pastoring 
duties  at  three  Oneonta  churches. > 

"Students  really  bring  something  to  the 
equation."  he  says.  "In  a  sermon,  obvi- 
ously, the  structure  is  such  that  your  audi- 
ence doesn't  respond  then  and  there,  and 
that's  probably  too  bad  for  both  you  and 
them.  There's  no  chance  for  argument  and 
debate.  Your  listeners  may  be  stirred  to 
great  thoughts  when  they  get  home,  but 
you  don't  hear  about  it.  It  would  be  the 
same  thing  in  class  if  all  I  did  w  as  speak 
and  all  they  did  was  listen." 

He's  well  aware,  however,  of  the  fine 
line  between  heated  discussion  and  chaos, 
and  sometimes  the  line  has  to  be  drawn.  At 
a  particularly  heated  moment,  he  finally 
holds  up  his  hand,  calling  for  a  pause. 

"There  has  to  be  structure."  he  says 
later.  "Real  freedom  of  thought  is  instilled 
through  structure.  The  students  have  to  get 
used  to  dealing  calmly  w  ith  views  that  are 
foreign  and  even  repugnant  to  them,  so 
they  can  analyze  and  fully  understand 
what  is  being  said.  You  don't  work 
through  disagreements  in  real  life  by  tak- 
ing the  attitude  that  the  other  person  is  just 
plain  w rong  and  not  worth  hearing  out." 

Mansbach.  who  won  Hartwick's  Bunn 
award  for  outstanding  teaching  in  1984. 
rarely  intrudes  his  own  views  in  class  dis- 
cussions, although  he  recognizes  that  "it's 
probably  good  if  my  students  know  what  I 
think  every  now  and  then."  He  seems  con- 
cerned that  the>  w  ill  feel  he's  trying  to  sell 
them  his  own  values.  "I  tell  them  in  the 
beginning  that  I'm  a  Christian  and  a 
Lutheran,  and  that  it  will  probably  give 
weight  to  my  teaching."  he  says.  T  admit 
that  I'm  deontologically  inclined,  because 
I  may  have  some  underlying  presupposi- 
tions which  I'm  not  fully  aware  of.  and  I 
want  them  to  be  forewarned." 

He  sa\es  his  preaching  for  outside  the 
classroom,  but  even  there,  he  has  a  scru- 


pulous respect  for  viewpoints  that  differ 
from  his  own.  "There's  been  quite  a  resur- 
gence of  religious  involvement  in  Ameri- 
can political  life."  he  observes.  "I  might 
not  agree  with  some  of  the  specific  view- 
points of  the  ultra-conservative  Protes- 
tants, for  example— and  I  certainly  think 
they  have  to  be  careful  about  what  they  try 
to  impose  on  other  people— but  on  the 
other  hand.  I  don't  think  the  framers  of  the 
Constitution  ever  assumed  that  religion 
should  be  completely  separated  from  tak- 
ing part  in  discussions  on  the  w  ider  arena 
of  life.*' 

In  Biomedical  Ethics,  Mansbach's  task 
is  to  help  students  face  the  overwhelming 
issues  of  modern  medicine  without 
becoming  callous.  "My  hope  is  that, 
whatever  their  views,  they  don't  end  up  as 
ethical  egoists."  he  sa_\s.  "Those  are  the 
people  who  say.  'How  can  I  achieve  the 
greatest  possible  good  for  Me?"  Some  peo- 
ple become  that  way  when  they  can't 
develop  perfect  solutions  to  problems  that 
the]  see  happening  again  and  again." 

These  days.  Mansbach  feels  confident 
about  combatting  such  disillusionment. 
"It's  funny  how  things  seem  to  go  in 
cycles,"  he  sa\s.  "When  I  came  here  in 
the  fall  of  '68.  students  were  very  much 
concerned  with  the  Vietnam  War.  the 
draft,  and  race  relations.  Then,  for  a 
period  after  that,  it  seemed  as  if  they 
turned  inward  for  a  while,  perhaps 
because  they  were  disappointed  that  there 
hadn't  been  as  much  change  as  the\  d 
expected.  Now  I  feel  as  if  there's  a  swing 
back  the  other  way.  particularly  on  ques- 
tions of  relations  between  the  individual 
and  the  state,  such  as  gender  and  age.  It's 
not  the  burning  concern  of  the  Sixties,  but 
it's  there." 

Over  the  >ears.  the  issues  in  Biomedical 
Ethics  haven't  lost  any  of  their  complex- 
it).  Back  in  the  classroom.  Mansbach 
throws  another  complex  "soap  opera  situ- 
ation" at  a  student. 

"Oh.  Lord!"  She  throws  up  her  hands. 
"I  don't  know  what  I'd  do." 

"Well.  \ou  wouldn't  move  to  Hawaii." 
Mansbach  responds.  "You'd  deal  with  it." 


X       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


NANCY 
MCDOWELL 

An  anthropologist,  she 
pushes  students  beyond 
their  cultural  biases. 

Not  long  after  Nancy  McDowell 
began  to  live  among  the  Bun,  a 
primitive  tribe  on  the  Yuat  River  of 
Papua  New  Guinea,  she  committed  the 
classical  anthropological  faux  pas.  For 
two  days,  the  chief,  who  lived  a  few  huts 
away  from  her,  had  been  beating  his  wife, 
and  McDowell  could  no  longer  stand  the 
screams.  So  she  imposed  her  own  values 
on  the  situation. 

"Basically,  I  ran  in.  stuck  myself 
between  the  two  of  them,  and  called  him 
every  name  I  could  think  of  in  several  lan- 
guages, some  which  he  could  even  under- 
stand," recalls  the  anthropologist,  who 
wears  glasses  and  usually  exudes  the  kind 
of  gentleness  that  puts  nervous  students  at 
ease.  "He  didn't  kill  me,  because  they  still 
have  a  fear  of  white  people  which  is  a 
holdover  from  colonial  times.  But  I  fig- 
ured I  was  finished  in  that  village,  that 
they'd  kick  me  out,  or  even  worse,  put  on 
some  sort  of  good-behavior  act  for  me." 

They  did  neither.  The  day  after  she  had 
"interfered,"  a  group  of  the  villagers  came 
to  her  and  told  her  they  were  glad  that, by 
attacking  the  chief,  she  had  finally  shown 
her  true  colors. 

"They  said  they  had  been  wondering 
when  I  was  going  to  start  acting  like  a 
white  person."  she  says.  "They'd  been 
worried  about  what  I  would  do  when  I  saw 
them  fight,  but  now  they  knew  I  was  just 
going  to  call  them  a  bunch  of  names.  I  was 
white,  but  at  least  I  wasn't  some  bureau- 
crat who  was  going  to  run  and  tell  the  gov- 
ernment." She  laughs.  "The  result  was 
that  I  got  to  see  a  lot  more  fighting,  which 


is  certainly  their  natural  behavior,  and  I'll 
tell  you,  it  wasn't  always  the  men  who 
won.  If  a  woman  was  angry  enough,  and 
she  could  grab  something  first,  the  man 
often  got  the  worst  of  it." 

There's  a  lot  in  this  story  that  the  stu- 
dents in  McDowell's  course.  Women  And 
Society,  could  learn  from.  On  a  warm  Sep- 
tember afternoon,  they  are  discussing 
Women  In  Ttie  Forest,  a  study  of  the  Ama- 
zon Mundurucu  women,  by  the  husband- 
and-wife  team  of  Robert  and  Yolande 
Murphy.  The  book  describes,  among  other 
things,  how  promiscuous  women  in  the 
tribe  were  punished  by  the  men  through  a 
form  of  gang  rape.  McDowell  encourages 
the  class— thirteen  women— to  come  at  the 


text  the  way  she  approached  the  Bun  chief: 
swinging. 

"Reactions  to  any  of  this?"  she  asks,  to 
open  the  discussion.  "Did  it  make  anyone 
angry0" 

A  girl  in  a  red-and-white-striped  polo 
shirt  raises  her  hand.  "It  put  me  on  the 
defensive  immediately,"  she  says.  "It 
seemed  as  if  the  women  were  just  there  to 
serve  the  men  without  getting  anything  in 
return.  I  think  they'd  be  better  off  without 
the  men  at  all." 

To  an  observer  at  this  point,  there  seems 
every  chance  that  the  class  could  turn  into 
group  therapy,  with  everyone  agreeing 
with  one  another.  But  McDowell,  winner 
of  Franklin   and   Marshall's   Lindback 


NOVEMBER  1984       XI 


Award  for  teaching,  has  no  intention  of 
leading  everyone  to  the  same  conclusions. 

*'I  don't  mind  it  this  early  in  the  semes- 
ter if  they  articulate  a  lot  of  personal  feel- 
ings and  experiences,"  she  says  later. 
"And  in  this  kind  of  situation,  I  throw  out 
a  lot  of  things  that  I  know  will  appeal  to 
strong  feminist  sentiments,  because  it  gets 
people  talking.  I  also  direct  things  toward 
certain  viewpoints  in  the  class— if  this  one 
has  a  background  in  women's  studies,  or 
that  one  is  a  Marxist." 

The  result  is  an  atmosphere  in  which 
seemingly  anything  goes,  but  McDowell 
also  has  an  agenda  toward  which  she  steers 
the  discussion. 

"I  have  certain  points  which  I  want  to 
cover,"  she  says.  "Believe  me,  it's  much 
more  exhausting  to  follow  a  class  discus- 
sion than  it  is  to  lecture.  I  have  to  keep 
tabs  on  what's  been  said.  Usually,  the 
important  stuff  gets  brought  up  naturally, 
but  afterward,  I  always  check  my  notes  to 
see  what  we  missed,  and  I  make  sure  we 
cover  it  next  time." 

Or  as  JoAnne  Comerford,  '85,  puts  it, 
"Even  if  somebody  says  something  which 
doesn't  seem  to  totally  pertain  to  the  dis- 
cussion, she'll  usually  manage  to  tie  it  in." 

In  the  class  on  Women  In  Tlie  Forest,  the 
first  student's  feelings  trigger  a  variety  of 
reactions  which,  tempered  by  McDowell's 
occasional  interjections,  do,  ultimately, 
lead  to  focused  discussion.  The  idea  that 
the  Mundurucu  women  could  do  without 
the  Mundurucu  men  proves  particularly 
fruitful. 

"I  know  the  Mundurucu  women  were 
officially  decreed  inferior  in  the  society, 
but  I  had  the  impression  that  they  didn't 
accept  that  at  all,"  a  red-haired  woman 
says.  "They  seemed  so  separate  that  they 
didn't  even  feel  dominated." 

Another  student  is  reminded  of  her  own 
experience  of  living  for  six  months  with  a 
Turkish  family.  "I  envied  the  women 
there,"  she  says.  "We  all  had  to  do  the 
housework  while  the  men  went  away  dur- 
ing the  day,  but  it  was  fun,  because  we 
were  together.  You  didn't  think  about 
wanting  to  do  what  the  men  did,  because 


you  had  your  own  thing.  Of  course,  you 
were  supposed  to  lower  your  eyes  when 
the  men  passed  by,  and  I  wouldn't  do  it, 
but  the  other  women  had  the  attitude  of, 
'Well,  he  doesn't  do  much  for  me,  I'd  just 
as  soon  look  at  the  ground.' " 

When  the  laughter  dies  down,  McDo- 
well draws  the  academic  connection. 

"You  know,  the  American  world  view 
in  anthropology  always  assumes  hierarchy 
in  the  cultures  it  studies,"  she  says.  "We 
imagine  that  one  group  is  always  occupy- 
ing a  position  superior  to  the  next,  and  we 
can  never  accept  the  idea  of  separate  but 
equal." 

She  isn't  just  poking  at  American 
anthropologists  with  this  observation;  it's 
directed  at  the  class  as  well. 

"We  have  to  at  least  be  aware  that  we 
may  be  projecting  a  lot  of  our  own  values 
here,"  she  says.  "Remember  that  the 
Mundurucu  women  are  appalled  when  the 
anthropologists  tell  them  that  in  America, 
water  comes  to  the  house  through  a  pipe. 
Where  do  the  women  meet  every  day, 
then,  if  not  to  gather  the  water?  And 
there's  no  farina  shed?  What  a  terrible 
place!" 

She  does  zero  in  on  the  book's  authors, 
though,  suggesting  that  the  husband-wife 
collaboration  may  have  ended  up  reflect- 
ing more  of  the  husband's  biases,  even 
though  it  was  ostensibly  the  wife's  project. 

"Robert  Murphy  was  a  well-known 
scholar  who  had  already  published  several 
books,  while  Yolande  was  a  graduate  stu- 
dent working  on  her  dissertation,"  McDo- 
well says.  "You  have  to  wonder  why  the 
first  philosophically  oriented  chapter  to 
occur  in  the  book  is  about  the  tribe's  male 
ideology.  One  reason  could  be  the  pres- 
ence of  her  husband.  The  other  is  the  real- 
ity of  anthropology  graduate  projects: 
when  you  study  a  tribe,  you'd  better  come 
home  with  the  male  ideology,  and  not  a 
consideration  of  basket-weaving  or  any 
such  women's  stuff." 

At  these  times,  McDowell  seems  to  be 
wearing  her  opinions  on  her  sleeve,  but 
she's  just  playing  devil's  advocate— again, 
because  it  loosens  tongues. 


"Students  have  a  tendency  to  think  that 
just  because  something's  in  print,  it  must 
reflect  the  truth,"  she  says.  "I'm  just  push- 
ing them  to  be  critical.  I  guarantee  that  by 
the  middle  of  the  semester,  each  of  them 
will  have  been  in  my  office  trying  to  figure 
out  what  it  is  I  really  think.  Hopefully, 
they  still  won't  know  in  January." 

McDowell  herself  had  to  figure  out  what 
she  really  thinks  in  a  climate  of  strong 
opposition.  As  a  graduate  student,  she  was 
yelled  at  by  no  less  an  authority  than  the 
legendary  Margaret  Mead,  herself  a  vet- 
eran of  the  Yuat  River  region.  The  pioneer 
anthropologist  told  McDowell  that  before 
going  to  leave  with  the  Bun  she  should 
completely  rethink  her  project.  McDowell 
ignored  the  advice,  and  later,  when  she 
needed  a  break  after  14  straight  months 
with  the  villagers,  a  somewhat  softened 
Mead  gave  her  the  money  for  a  leave. 

McDowell's  work  on  the  Bun  consists  of 
fascinating,  almost  psychoanalytic  deduc- 
tions about  their  collective  behavior:  she 
argues  that  the  tribe  is  obsessed  with  inde- 
pendence, and  that  they  are  suffering 
inadequacy  feelings  as  a  result  of  being 
unable  to  repay  debts  to  the  regional  gov- 
ernment. 

"Anthropology  isn't  a  science,"  she 
says,  "and  I  think  it  would  be  a  terrible 
thing  if  it  were  turned  into  one.  because 
the  scientific  method,  with  all  its  statistics 
and  correlations,  would  kill  our  best 
insights.  At  the  same  time,  we  have  to  be 
willing  to  test  and  refine  our  ideas." 

In  a  sense,  the  students  in  Women  In 
Society  confront  the  equivalent  of  McDo- 
well's wife-beating  chief  and  learn  some 
of  the  same  lessons.  They  charge  at  some- 
thing they  see,  reacting  to  their  emotions, 
and  after  the  initial  confrontation,  come 
away  with  what  should  be  a  tempered  out- 
look. McDowell  thinks  both  parts  of  the 
experience  are  important. 

"We're  dealing  with  sophisticated 
issues  and  readings  in  this  class,"  she  says. 
"Feelings  are  a  good  starting  point,  but 
ultimately  the  students  have  to  be  able  to 
do  more  than  just  talk  about  things  their 
grandmothers  have  said." 


XII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


By  Ivars  Peterson 

How  can  engineers 

and  architects  be  certain 

that  a  building's  structure 

and  materials  are 


earthquake-proof? 
»■■■■*>■ 


»«* 


The  ground  shivers,  sending  tremors 
through  a  skyscraper's  steel  and 
concrete  framework.  The  structure 
shudders.  Its  columns,  beams,  and  braces 
stretch  and  strain.  Seconds  later,  the  vibra- 
tions die  out,  and  the  earthquake  is  over. 
Often,  the  building  is  still  standing;  some- 
times, it  has  collapsed. 

This  scenario  seems  out  of  place  in  a 
small  city  like  Worcester,  Mass.  There  are 
few  tall  buildings;  earthquakes  rarely 
strike.  Yet,  such  events  occur  regularly  in 
an  engineering  laboratory  at  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  (WPI).  There,  a 
computer  plays  the  roles  of  both  earth- 
quake and  building,  and  researchers  pore 
over  pages  of  computer-generated  data 
that  represent  the  way  a  structure  reacts  to 
an  earthquake. 

In  civil  engineering,  says  WPI's  P.  Jaya- 
chandran,  you  generally  can't  test  a  full- 
scale  building  to  ensure  that  it  can  survive 
all  but  the  most  severe  earthquakes  or 
storms.  Adds  William  E.  Saul  of  the  Uni- 
versity of  Idaho,  "Obviously,  you  can't 


Experience  can  be 
an  expensive  teacher; 

scale  models  are 

cumbersome  and  not 

always  precise. 

The  answer: 

computer  modeling. 

build  a  structure  that's  40  stories  high  and 
then  subject  it  to  vibrations  until  you 
knock  it  down.  You  have  to  do  it  with  a 
computer  model.  You  destroy  the  com- 
puter model  within  the  computer  to  see 
what  the  building  can  take." 

Another  reason  that  computer  modeling 
makes  sense,  says  Jayachandran,  is  that 
"you  cannot  generate  earthquakes  in  the 
lab  very  easily."  Even  a  "shaking  table," 
on  which  scale  models  of  buildings  can  be 
mounted  and  then  jolted,  has  limitations. 
(At  the  common  1:4  scale,  a  40-story 
model  would  still  be  10  stories  high,  and 


'Aa^^^y^^^v 


models  cannot  reproduce  all  the  properties 
of  real  buildings.)  "That's  why  the  com- 
puter analysis  is  so  useful,"  he  says.  "You 
can  try  a  lot  of  different  things  in  a  matter 
of  days."  Without  computer  simulations, 
structural  engineers  would  have  little 
information  about  whether  their  designs 
would  work  under  earthquake  conditions. 

Jayachandran  and  Saul  are  among  the 
growing  number  of  researchers  working  in 
the  fields  of  earthquake  and  wind  engi- 
neering. A  few  decades  ago,  both  special- 
ties were  minor  parts  of  civil  engineering. 
But  the  development  of  new  materials, 
which  allows  the  construction  of  ever- 
taller  structures,  and  great  increases  in 
computer  speed  and  power  have  changed 
the  situation.  Now,  frequent  international 
conferences  bring  together  researchers 
from  all  parts  of  the  United  States  and 
countries  like  Australia,  China,  the  Soviet 
Union,  Japan,  and  India  to  discuss  the  lat- 
est developments  in  these  fields. 

"We  are  looking  for  improved  methods 
of  calculation— improved   methods   for 


No-Fault  Earthquakes 


A  computer  models  both 
building  and  quake, 
then  collects  detailed 

data:  to  simulate  a 

10-second  earthquake 

takes  30  minutes. 


vwM^^^ 


modeling  tall  buildings,"  says  Jayachan- 
dran.  At  the  same  time,  there  is  a  great 
need  for  experimental  data,  based  on  real 
earthquakes  and  real  buildings,  to  check 
the  validity  of  computer  calculations. 

Computer  programs  now  being  used  to 
simulate  earthquake  effects  are  remark- 
ably sophisticated,  says  Jayachandran.  and 
generally  take  months  to  learn  how  to  use. 
The  initial  step  involves  creating  a  com- 
puter model  of  the  building.  "The  com- 
puter programs  are  very  general."  he  says. 
"You  can  model  many  different  materi- 
als—timber, concrete  and  steel,  alumi- 
num, and  copper." 

First,  the  structure  is  broken  down  into  a 
set  of  small  pieces,  which  often  individu- 
ally correspond  to  a  building's  columns, 
girders,  and  braces.  Each  of  these  "finite 
elements"  has  its  own  mathematical 
expression  that  describes  both  its  relation- 
ship to  other  pieces  and  the  way  in  which 
forces,  such  as  those  generated  in  an  earth- 
quake, act  on  it.  "We  create  a  skeleton  of 
the  building— what's  called  a  'finite-ele- 
ment mesh.' "  says  Jayachandran.  Once  the 
mathematical  skeleton  is  in  place,  the  build- 
ing can  be  subjected  to  an  earthquake. 

That  earthquake  can  be  "synthetic"  or 
"real."  In  the  latter  case,  the  computer 
uses  ground  motion  data  recorded  during 
an  actual  earthquake.  The  most  widely 
used  data  come  from  the  1941  El  Centro, 
Calif.,  tremor.  For  many  years  it  was  one 
of  the  few  recorded  earthquakes  providing 
enough  information  for  engineering  appli- 
cations, and  it  pops  up  as  a  kind  of  stan- 
dard in  innumerable  engineering  studies. 

"Sometimes  we  make  a  mathematical 
model  of  the  earthquake  itself."  says  Jaya- 
chandran. During  an  earthquake,  different 
amounts  of  energy  go  into  the  various  fre- 
quencies of  vibration  that  make  up  the 
ground  motion.  Using  this  information 
derived  from  seismic  data,  the  computer 
mathematically  generates  a  series  of  ran- 
dom pulses  that  combine  to  produce  the 
synthetic  earthquake. 

Ivars  Peterson  writes  on  policy  and  tech- 
nology for  Science  News. 


For  a  typical.  10-story  building,  the 
WPI  computer  (a  DECSYSTEM-2060 
that  serves  the  entire  university)  takes 
about  30  minutes  to  decide  the  building's 
fate.  In  that  time,  it  calculates  the  strength 
of  the  forces  acting  on  each  piece  of  the 
structure  and  how  much  each  piece  is  dis- 
placed, repeating  the  operation  about 
1 .000  times  during  the  course  of  the  simu- 
lated earthquake. 

For  the  building  as  a  whole— as  well  as 
for  any  floor,  or  any  particular  girder, 
column,  or  brace— the  program  provides  a 
record  of  how  the  structure  responds  every 
one-hundredth  of  a  second  during  an 
earthquake  that  may  last  10  seconds.  Says 
Jayachandran:  "You  really  get  a  pile  of 
output." 

Another  set  of  computer  programs  trans- 
lates this  mass  of  data  into  graphs,  to  high- 
light the  key  features  of  a  building's 
response  to  an  earthquake.  Recently,  Jaya- 
chandran has  been  thinking  about  display- 
ing the  data  on  computer  screens  and  pho- 
tographing them  in  sequence  to  produce 
motion  pictures  of  a  building's  vibrations. 
"The  technology  is  available."  he  says. 
"We  just  don't  have  the  facilities  now  at 
WPI  to  do  it." 

On  a  more  elementary  level,  architec- 
ture students  at  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute  (RPI)  can  already  watch  the  exag- 
gerated sway  of  a  building  wobbling  under 
an  earthquake's  influence.  Two  years  ago, 
Richard  W.  Quadrel  of  RPI's  architecture 
department  developed  an  interactive  com- 
puter graphics  program  that  allows  under- 
graduates to  investigate  how  the  shape  and 
structure  of  a  building  affect  its  stability 
and  motion  during  an  earthquake. 

"In  a  simplified  study  of  earthquakes, 
what  we're  primarily  concerned  with  is  the 
horizontal  shaking  of  the  ground  in  one 
particular  direction,"  says  Quadrel.  "The 
program  takes  the  major  factors  and  allows 
you  to  play  with  them  a  little  bit  to  see 
what  the  results  are  on  the  building."  As 
might  be  expected,  he  says,  short,  squat 
buildings,  even  with  very  little  bracing 
against  earthquakes,  are  more  likely  to 
survive,  because  they  are  less  flexible 


and  don't  bend  as  much  as  tall,  slender 
buildings. 

Meanwhile,  Jayachandran  is  looking  for 
ways  of  running  his  much  more  compli- 
cated simulations  on  smaller  computers, 
so  that  small  building  and  design  firms  can 
study,  in  greater  detail,  how  their  building 
designs  respond  to  earthquakes,  as 
required  by  an  increasing  number  of  build- 
ing codes.  "Architectural  and  consulting 
firms,"  he  says,  "usually  can't  afford  to 
buy  a  computer  like  a  DEC-620." 

Measurements  on  real  buildings  during 
earthquakes  and  data  from  laboratory 
experiments  also  provide  valuable  infor- 
mation. "Until  recent  years,  it  was  diffi- 
cult to  get  any  kind  of  accurate  earthquake 
measurements  on  real  buildings,"  says 
Idaho's  Saul.  Now,  dozens  of  tall  build- 
ings in  California,  for  example,  have  spe- 
cial instruments  that  record  the  building's 
motion  during  an  earthquake.  (In  some 
areas,  buildings  greater  than  a  certain 
height  must  now  have  at  least  three  engi- 
neering seismometers.) 

"From  that  you  get  an  idea  of  how  real 
buildings  behave,"  says  Jayachandran. 
"But  I  think  we  need  more  instrumentation 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


t<\J\W*V^*ty^ 


on  the  East  Coast  and  in  the  Midwest  to 
see  how  the  earthquakes  in  those  locations 
affect  buildings."  One  of  the  difficulties  in 
earthquake  engineering  is  that  earthquakes 
are  infrequent  and  highly  individual. 

Some  of  the  most  elaborate  laboratory 
work  is  going  on  at  the  University  of  Cali- 
fornia at  Berkeley  in  the  Earthquake  Engi- 
neering Research  Center.  There,  a  50-ton 
shaking  table,  20  feet  long  and  20  feet 
wide  and  carrying  structures  up  to  30  feet 
tall  and  as  heavy  as  50  tons,  recreates  the 
ground  motions  of  actual  earthquakes  that 
have  hit  California  and  Japan.  Working 
from  mathematical  models,  researchers  at 
the  University  of  Michigan,  Ann  Arbor, 
use  a  cyclic  loading  mechanism  to  simu- 
late earthquake  effects.  A  hydraulic  device 
creates  the  loads  and  applies  them  to 
scaled-down  structures.  "Some  of  these 
results  will  help  us  verify  our  mathemati- 
cal models,"  says  Jayachandran,  who 
plans  a  smaller  version  of  the  Michigan 
device  for  his  WPI  lab. 

Jayachandran  and  his  students  have  also 
done  some  laboratory  work.  Last  year, 
they  built  scaled-down  models  of  one-  and 
two-story  buildings  from  welded  steel 


columns  and  beams.  They  didn't  use  a 
shaking  table,  but  simply  applied  forces  to 
the  models  to  test  the  effectiveness  of 
braces. 

Out  of  all  this,  researchers  have 
already  learned  a  great  deal  about 
how  tall  buildings,  in  particular, 
respond  to  earthquakes.  A  building  that 
survives  an  earthquake  tends  to  be  tied 
together  so  that  it  works  as  a  unit.  At  the 
same  time,  the  building  cannot  be  too  stiff, 
nor  too  flexible.  A  stiff  building  is  very 
expensive  to  build,  and  it  usually  cannot 
absorb  very  much  energy.  A  flexible 
building,  on  the  other  hand,  may  sway  too 
much  during  a  storm  or  a  quake.  It  could 
survive  an  earthquake,  but  its  interior 
would  be  left  in  a  shambles. 

"You  have  to  balance  all  these  things 
when  you  design  a  building,"  Jayachan- 
dran says.  "It's  an  optimization  problem  in 
n  dimensions."  The  answer,  he  says,  is  to 
build  structures  with  joints  that  can  absorb 
energy.  "It's  essentially  the  energy- 
absorbing  capacity  of  buildings  that  allows 
them  to  take  large  earthquakes  and  not 
collapse." 


A  building  should  be  stable  enough  to 
allow  people  to  get  out  with  sufficient 
warning.  The  acceleration  should  be  lim- 
ited so  that  people  do  not  feel  ill  during 
windstorms.  The  building  deflection — 
how  far  it  sways  from  its  normal  posi- 
tion—should be  less  than  levels  at  which 
walls  and  windows  crack.  The  joints 
between  beams  and  columns  must  have 
enough  energy-absorbing  capacity  to  with- 
stand large  vibrations.  In  addition,  Jaya- 
chandran. notes  the  skyscraper  design  must 
be  aesthetically  pleasing,  inexpensive,  and 
feasible  to  build. 

"When  a  building  is  designed  and  built, 
the  engineer  is  responsible  for  the  building 
behaving  properly  in  windstorms  or  in 
earthquakes,"  says  Jayachandran.  "You 
have  to  follow  all  the  different  building 
codes,  and  you  have  to  optimize  the  cost, 
too."  Sometimes  conflicting  requirements 
must  be  resolved.  Raising  a  building  on 
columns,  for  example,  saves  it  from 
floods,  increases  the  amount  of  heat 
exchange— and  produces  a  "soft  story,"  a 
weakness  when  there's  an  earthquake. 
However,  the  same  unity  and  continuity  of 
structure  that  allow  a  well-designed  build- 
ing to  perform  well  in  a  hurricane  will  also 
allow  it  to  resist  earthquakes. 

With  such  complicated  sets  of  require- 
ments, computers  become  invaluable  tools 
for  earthquake  and  wind  engineers.  Build- 
ing codes  themselves  have  changed  con- 
siderably in  the  past  decade,  as  new  mate- 
rials like  tough  steel  alloys  and  stronger 
concrete  have  been  developed,  and  as 
computer  simulations  have  provided  the 
information  needed  for  revision.  Thus, 
design  is  a  much  more  complex  process 
now  than  in  earlier  decades,  says  Saul,  but 
the  final  results  are  more  predictable. 

Meanwhile,  new  techniques  for  analyz- 
ing the  way  structures  respond  to  "loads," 
like  earthquake  forces,  continue  to  be 
introduced.  The  earliest  type  of  modeling 
for  earthquake  effects  dealt  with  extremes: 
researchers  estimated  the  largest  loads  that 
were  likely  to  act  on  a  building,  applied 
those  forces,  and  measured  the  final  result. 
But  the  approach  that  Jayachandran  and 


NOVEMBER  1984       XV 


A  Model  Built  on  Sand 


Pv»/ty  v <vf»*+~^ 


A  building  generall}  isn't  designed  to 
float.  But  within  minutes,  the  shak- 
ing of  an  earthquake  can  turn  a 
firm.  sand}  soil  saturated  with  water  into  a 
liquid-like  mixture  that  no  longer  supports 
a  building.  "There  are  some  \ery  impres- 
sive photographs  of  five-  or  six-stor) 
buildings  in  Japan  that  were  vertical 
before  an  earthquake  and  horizontal  after." 
civil  engineer  Ricardo  Dobry  of 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute.  "These 
buildings  were  a^ked  to  work  as  boats  for  a 
few  minutes,  and  they  couldn't." 

Dobry  one  of  six  civil  engineers  at  RPI 
doing  research  in  earthquake  engineering, 
specializes  in  the  field's  "geotechnical" 
aspects:  in  particular,  the  liquefaction  of 
saturated  sand  and  the  failure  of  earth 
dams,  dikes,  and  embankments  during 
earthquakes.  "The  phenomenon  o\  soil 
liquefaction  sounds  \er>  esoteric."  he 
but  it  happens  over  and  over  again. 
Most  big  earthquakes  cause  a  lot  of  lique- 
faction." 

The  problem  is  that  when  an  earthquake 
shakes  wet  sand,  the  grains  of  sand  roll 
and  slide  to  get  into  more  stable  positions. 
The  sand  settles,  increasing  the  water 
pressure  inside  the  mixture  because  e 
water  can't  escape  quickly  enough  from 
among  the  sand  particles.  At  a  critical 
pressure,  the  sand  grains  physically  sepa- 
rate, and  the  mixture  of  sand  and  water 
begins  to  behave  like  a  liquid. 

"Dams  that  consist  of  piles  of  loose 
sand  are  very  sensitive  to  earthquakes. 
The>  liquefy,  the}  flow,  and  they  fail  eas- 
lys  Dobry.  Although  loose  sand  no 
longer  goes  into  the  construction  of  earth 
dams,  a  number  of  older  dams  of  this  type 
are  still  in  use.  In  contrast,  dams  con- 
structed from  clay  soils  don't  fail  cata- 
strophically.  even  when  they  are  poorly 
built,  because  clay  particles  cling  together 
better  than  sand  particles. 

'  of  Dobry  's  work  takes  place  in  a 
sophisticated  laboratory  at  RPI  where  he 
subjects  cylindrical  samples  of  soil  to 
vibrations,  studying  the  liquefaction 
behavior  of  the  specimens.  Computers 
play  an  important  role  both  in  collecting 


*^**v\, 


data  and  in  controlling  the  conditions 
under  which  experiments  are  done.  With 
the  recent  installation  of  new  computer 
equipment.  Dobry  su>v  the  researchers 
expect  to  be  able  to  produce  signals  that 
shake  the  soil  samples  just  as  the}  would 
be  shaken  during  a  real  earthquake. 

Dobry  is  also  working  with  the  U.S. 
Geological  Survey  and  a  researcher  at  the 
University  of  Texas  in  Austin  to  develop  a 
computer  model  that  predicts  how  soils 
behave  under  various  conditions.  Right 
now.  the  team  is  measuring  the  properties 
of  soil  layers  taken  from  places  like  the 
Imperial  Valley  in  Southern  California, 
which  was  shaken  by  a  1979  earthquake. 
These  soil  characteristics  become  part  of  a 
computer  model,  and  the  computer  calcu- 
lates the  effects  of  seismic  waves  as  the} 
propagate  through  the  soil. 

"The  model  tells  you  if  liquefaction  is 
occurring  at  a  particular  layer." 
Dobry.  "Then,  you  go  and  check  for  evi- 
dence of  liquefaction  at  those  sites.  In  the 
future,  if  we  happen  to  have  an  earthquake 
at  an  instrumented  site,  we  will  be  able  to 
verifv  our  prediction- 

In  the  case  of  earth  dams,  says  Dobry. 
"we  are  trying  to  see  if  our  techniques 
could  have  predicted  the  near-failure  of  the 
San  Fernando  dam  in  1971."  During  an 
earthquake,  one  of  the  dam's  slopes  lique- 
fied and  flowed,  threatening  more  than 
100.000  people  in  the  Uos  Angeles  area. 
"It  was  almost  catastrophic."  he 
"The  earthquake  ended  just  as  the  dam 
urting  to  go.  Most  of  us  estimate  that 
after  5  or  10  seconds  more  of  shaking,  it 
would  have  gone." 

Computer  models  will  become  increas- 
ing!} important,  says  Dobry.  Currentl}. 
liquefaction  field  studies  are  time-consum- 
ing and  expensive  and.  therefore,  can't  be 
done  for  every  project  and  even,  site.  A 
reliable  computer  model  would  need  data 
from  only  a  few .  simple,  cheap  field  mea- 
surements to  come  up  w  ith  a  good  picture 
of  how  soil  at  a  particular  location  would 
behave  during  an  earthquake.  However. 
sa)  -  Dobry .  that  kind  of  modeling  is  still 
far  aw  a\ .  — Ivars  Peterson 


others  are  still  refining  models  both  build- 
ing and  earthquake,  then  puts  them 
through  the  computer  to  calculate  everv- 
thing  that  happens,  in  split-second  inter- 
vals, for  the  earthquake's  duration. 

A  new  technique  that  shortens  the  time 
it  takes  to  run  a  simulation  on  a  computer 
is  coming,  says  Saul.  Instead  of  looking  at 
accelerations  and  deflections,  the  re- 
searcher looks  at  vibrational  frequencies. 

In  one  sense,  a  building  is  somewhat 
like  an  inverted  pendulum,  and  a  bridge  is 
a  little  like  a  guitar  string.  The  signal— in 
this  case,  an  earthquake's  vibrations- 
enters  the  structure  and  interacts  with  it. 
Out  of  this  interaction  comes  a  modified 
signal.  In  other  words,  the  structure  is  con- 
sidered to  act  like  a  filter.  Just  as  audio 
engineers  can  learn  about  electronic  com- 
ponents within  an  amplifier  by  comparing 
sound  waves  fed  into  an  amplifier  to  those 
coming  out.  structural  engineers  may 
someday  be  able  to  apply  a  similar  method 
of  frequency  analysis  to  buildings. 

This  technique,  adapted  from  methods 
used  in  electrical  engineering,  is  faster 
than  the  full  computer  simulations  now 
run.  sa\s  Saul.  Some  of  the  more 
advanced  engineering  firms  already  use  it 
in  a  simplified  mathematical  form.  How- 
ever, when  it  comes  to  more  sophisticated 
working  with  more  complicated 
structures,  it's  very  much  an  area  of 
research.  The  displacement  of  well-estab- 
lished methods  by  something  in  which  the 
mathematics  is  different,  says  Saul,  is  not 
easil)  accepted  by  building  officials  and 
others.  "Until  we  learn  more  about  the 
method,  it  will  not  be  generally  accepted." 

"We  are  constantly  improving  our  com- 
puter programs."  sa\s  Jayachandran.  to 
provide  better  information  for  engineers 
who  must  ensure  that  their  buildings  sur- 
vive the  hazards  of  wind  and  earthquake. 
"Although  there  are  few  tall  buildings  in 
small  cities  like  Worcester,  computers 
allow  me  to  stud}  and  do  things  that  are  of 
general  use  to  the  whole  country."  he 
"All  I  need  are  a  computer  and  books.  I 
can  stud}  buildings  an} where  in  the 
world." 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


".♦  .of  the  waters  of  the  Earth" 


A  look  back  at  the 
pioneering  career  of 
hydrologist  Ray  K. 
Linsley,  Jr.,  37 


Back  in  1937,  when  Ray  Linsley  grad- 
uated from  WPI  with  a  B.S.  in  civil 
engineering,  the  field  of  hydrology 
was  in  its  infancy.  Save  for  a  volume  writ- 
ten in  1919.  in  the  mid-'30s  there  weren't 
even  any  textbooks  on  the  subject.  He 
would  soon  help  change  all  that  with  pub- 
lication of  four  highly  regarded  texts.  He 
would  influence  the  field  in  other  dramatic 
ways  as  well.  But  first,  for  the  uninitiated, 
a  primer  on  the  sometimes  arcane  world  of 
hydrology. 

Hydrologists,  Linsley  explains,  plan, 
design  and  operate  engineering  projects 
for  the  control  and  use  of  water.  "They 
deal  with  questions  like:  What  flood  flows 
can  be  expected  over  a  spillway,  at  a  high- 
way culvert,  in  an  urban  storm  drainage 
system?  What  reservoir  capacity  is 
required  to  assure  adequate  water  for  irri- 
gation or  municipal  water  supply  during 
drought?  What  are  reasonable  boundaries 
for  a  floodplain?"  Obviously,  geography, 
geology,  and  meteorology  play  leading 
roles  in  this  global  drama.  And  as  much  as 
in  any  other  field  of  engineering,  he  says, 
hydrologists  must  deal  with  the  intercon- 
nections between  the  laws  of  nature  and 
the  needs  of  people.  "Judgment."  he  adds, 
"is  crucial." 

The  earliest  evidence  of  hydraulic  proj- 
ects (hydrology  is  a  specialized  field  of 
hydraulics— the  science  of  fluid  flow) 
dates  to  about  3000  B.C..  when  a  diver- 
sion dam  is  said  to  have  been  built  by  King 
Menes  to  redirect  the  Nile  so  that  Mem- 
phis, his  capital,  could  be  constructed  on  a 
fertile  riverbed. 

Yet  it  wasn't  until  about  1930,  says 
Linsley,  that  a  quantitative  approach 
beyond  simple  measures  of  rainfall  and 
streamflow  was  undertaken.  "It  was  as  if 


they  used  a  shotgun  to  plot  data  on  graph 
paper,"  he  says,  "and  then  drew  a  line 
through  the  mess."  Birth  in  the  '30s  of  the 
Tennessee  Valley  Authority  (TVA)— giv- 
ing the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  the  job 
of  controlling  floods  and  creating  the  Soil 
Conservation  Service  to  reduce  soil  ero- 
sion—changed the  entire  scope  of  hydrol- 
ogy. "Today,  of  course."  he  adds,  "the 
computer  has  taken  over,  and  we  can  work 
more  from  historical  climatic  and  geologi- 
cal records  to  model  the  foreseeable  future 
of  a  given  region." 

Recently,  for  example,  his  firm. 
Linsley.  Kraeger  Associates  Ltd..  a  three- 
person  Santa  Cruz.  CA.  consulting  group, 
was  called  in  to  redesign  the  spillway  for  a 
dam  near  Santa  Cruz,  using  a  hydraulic 
model  to  come  up  with  a  simple  way  of 
increasing  capacity  without  requiring 
major  reconstruction.  He  has  also  recently 
conducted  large  projects  for  the  Domini- 
can Republic,  developing  a  hydrologic 
basis  for  design  of  a  hydroelectric  plant; 
and  for  the  Jubail  (India)  Industrial  Park, 
working  on  the  storm  drainage  system  of  a 


desert  site  that,  when  it  does  receive  rain, 
suffers  torrential  downpours.  And  as  an 
expert  witness,  he  has  testified  in  a 
Supreme  Court  case  in  which  the  State  of 
Wisconsin  claimed  that  Illinois  was  not 
adhering  to  a  ruling  of  their  right  to  divert 
waters  from  Lake  Michigan. 

Linsley 's  first  job  out  of  WPI  was  a  three- 
month  engineering  stint  with  a  New  York 
City  firm.  Repulsed  by  the  congestion  of 
the  city,  however,  he  took  a  post  in  Knox- 
ville  with  the  TVA,  forecasting  river  flow. 
This  early  taste  of  hydrology,  and  his 
entrance  into  this  emerging  field  at  its 
beginning,  poised  him  on  the  springboard 
of  greater  things  to  come. 

In  1940  he  joined  the  U.S.  Weather 
Bureau  as  a  hydrologist,  working  first  in 
Washington.  DC.  and  then  in  Sacramento. 
CA.  "I  thought  about  law  school  then,"  he 
says,  but  with  the  war  and  later  a  family  of 
four  children  to  raise  and  educate— well, 
advanced  degrees  simply  took  a  back  seat 
to  the  demands  of  everyday  life.  But.  this 
never  seemed  to  impede  his  career. 

During  the  war.  he  taught  Air  Force  air 
weather  officers  flood  forecasting.  "I 
enjoyed  teaching."  he  recalls,  "but  I  saw 
right  away  the  need  for  better  hydrologic 
instruction  at  the  college  level."  This 
resulted  in  Applied  Hydrology  (with  Max 
Kohler  and  Joseph  Paulhus.  McGraw  Hill. 
1949).  still  the  standard  work  in  its  field. 

The  end  of  the  war  saw  Linsley  pro- 
moted to  Chief  Hydrologist  at  the  Weather 
Bureau.  Then,  in  1950,  Stanford  Univer- 
sity offered  him  a  faculty  position,  which 
led  to  his  becoming  chairman  of  Stanford's 
civil  engineering  department  and  later 
associate  dean  of  the  College  of  Engineer- 
ing. At  Stanford  he  built  the  nation's  first 
graduate  hydrology  program.  Two  of  his 
students  would  later  go  on  to  head  gradu- 
ate programs  of  their  own  at  Utah  State 
and  the  University  of  Washington. 

Linsley  taught  a  course  at  Stanford  on 
the  economic  and  societal  impacts  of 
hydrology.  Student  response,  he  says,  was 

continued  on  inside  back  cover 


NOVEMBER  1984       33 


The  Fastest  Han 
in  the  East 

Dr.  David  Cyganski,  '75  BSEE, 

assistant  professor  of  electrical  engineering 

and  this  year's  recipient  of  WPPs 

Outstanding  Teacher  Award,  ^A 

doesn't  have  a  middle  name. 

But,  if  he  did,  it  could  well 

be  "Enthusiasm." 

Just  watch  him 

at  the  chalkboard 

sometime. 


warn 


Wfhen  it  comes  to  discussing  stu- 
dents and  education,  two  of 
David  Cyganski's  favorite 
themes,  he  jumps  right  in  with  both  feet. 
"The  educational  process  shouldn't  be  an 
exclusive  competition  for  just  a  winning 
few"  he  asserts.  "It  should  be  easily 
accessible  to  everyone." 

Cyganski  minces  no  words  when  he  dis- 
cusses what  he  feels  is  wrong  with  educa- 
tion in  general  today.  "Too  many  teachers 
and  too  many  textbooks  make  learning  dif- 
ficult," he  says.  "A  student  may  have  an 
aptitude  for  a  subject  such  as  science,  but 
no  real  interest.  It  is  the  teacher's  job  to 
develop  that  interest  by  simplifying  the 
subject  matter  and  making  it  more  mean- 
ingful." 

According  to  Cyganski.  most  textbooks 
concentrate  too  much  on  "pure"  theory, 
with  the  subject's  practical  application  sur- 
facing only  at  the  end.   "I  like  to  turn 


things  upside  down,"  he  reports.  "I  tell  my 
classes  why  they  need  to  know  something 
before  they  ever  open  a  book." 

In  a  nutshell,  Cyganski's  basic  philoso- 
phy of  teaching  is,  "If  it's  worth  knowing, 
it  can  be  put  simply.  And  no  matter  how 
abstract  a  subject  may  be,  it  should,  some- 
how, be  connected  with  everyday  life." 

His  students  appreciate  his  fresh 
approach  to  teaching.  Says  John  O'Don- 
nell,  '85,  of  Fitchburg,  MA,  "Prof. 
Cyganski  makes  me  feel  comfortable  dur- 
ing class.  He  knows  how  to  get  across  the 
most  significant  aspects  of  the  material 
without  getting  overly  technical.  Also,  he 
has  a  good  sense  of  humor,  is  easy  to  listen 
to  and  generally  gives  off  good  vibes!" 

While  still  a  student  in  high  school, 
Cyganski  tutored  his  classmates.  "I  was 
no  athlete,"  he  explains.  "Helping  out  my 
fellow  students  with  their  studies  was  a 
good  way  for  me  to  make  friends."  Being 


involved  with  education  at  such  an  early 
age  on  a  one-on-one  basis,  he  decided  long 
ago  that  nothing  is  easy  until  it  is 
explained  and  understood,  and  that  slow 
learners  should  be  given  an  opportunity  to 
develop  their  own  potential  at  their  own 
rate. 

Always  a  top  student  himself, 
Cyganski  nonetheless  has  had  to 
L  relearn  things  that  he  feels  are  not 
adequately  taught  in  high  school  and 
grammar  school.  "Sometimes  it's  almost 
impossible  to  recover  from  the  mental 
crippling  received  at  the  hands  of  a  bad 
teacher,"  he  says.  "That  is  why  some  stu- 
dents have  such  difficulty  at  WPI."  They 
may  do  well  on  their  aptitude  tests,  which 
he  says  measure  mere  "history,"  but  they 
may  not  be  able  to  achieve  at  the  college 
level  because  they  lack  a  basic  understand- 
ing of  the  subject  at  hand. 


34       WPI  JOURNAL 


~£.T 


fvf 


•*>'. 


i^Pteiv-y, 


Cyganski,  who  says  he's  spent  his  whole 
life  "learning  how  to  learn,"  has  spent  a 
lot  of  time  learning  at  WPI.  He  received 
his  BSEE  with  high  honors  from  WPI  in 
1975,  his  MSEE  in  1977  and  his  PhD  in 
1981. 

"The  Plan  is  what  drew  me  to  WPI  orig- 
inally," he  reports,  "plus  my  interest  in 
electronics.  There  was  plenty  of  latitude  in 
the  Plan,  so  I  could  choose  a  wide  variety 
of  courses.  I  could  also  pursue  some  inter- 
ests outside  of  engineering,  which  I  enjoy 
as  well." 

After  graduating  with  his  BSEE,  he 
says,  "I  decided  to  stay  at  WPI  to  work  for 
my  master's  simply  because  I  liked  the 
school.  It  was  a  natural  thing  for  me  to 
do." 

Why  he  continued  on  for  his  PhD  is  a 
different  story.  "While  I  was  with  Bell 
Labs  in  North  Andover  in  1978,  I  was 
asked  to  teach  some  evening  graduate 


courses  at  WPI,"  Cyganski  says.  "At  the 
time,  my  wife,  Janet,  was  studying  at 
Worcester  State.  It  made  sense  for  me  to 
leave  Bell  Labs,  teach  here,  and  work  for 
my  PhD." 

He  laughs,  adding,  "People  give  me 
strange  looks  when  they  discover  I've  got- 
ten all  my  degrees  at  WPI.  I'm  not  sure, 
myself,  if  I'd  do  it  again.  But.  I  feel  that  I 
got  a  very  good  education  here.  In  the  end. 
it  doesn't  really  matter  where  you  get  your 
PhD.  That  kind  of  knowledge  comes 
mainly  from  libraries  and  original  papers." 

Cyganski 's  professional  and  research 
interests  at  WPI  are  varied.  Recently, 
under  a  National  Science  Foundation 
grant,  he  and  Professors  Kevin  Clements, 
the  late  Donald  Eteson.  '48,  Dan  Wolaver 
and  Gary  Krumpholz,  '78,  developed  a 
system  to  help  integrate  the  use  of  the 
computer  into  engineering  education.  Last 
summer,  a  research  contract  for  collecting 
and  analyzing  data  on  harmonics  in  power 
systems,  which  he  will  co-investigate  with 
Professors  John  Orr  and  Alexander  Ema- 
nuel of  the  EE  Department,  was  accepted 
by  Eastern  Utilities  Associates. 

Emanuel,  himself  a  former  WPI 
Teacher  of  The  Year,  says  that  Cyganski  is 
not  only  an  excellent  teacher,  but  an  out- 
standing researcher.  "Two  years  ago,"  he 
says,  "Dave  took  over  research  [spon- 
sored by  New  England  Electric  Systems] 
which  I  originated,  focusing  on  determina- 
tion of  current  wave-shape  and  intensity  in 
overhead  power  lines,  based  on  magnetic 
field  measurements."  The  problem  to  be 
solved  was  extremely  difficult  and 
required  a  clear  understanding  of  field  the- 
ory as  well  as  the  use  of  tomographic 
reconstruction  techniques.  The  develop- 
ment of  unusually  involved  software  was 
only  a  part  of  the  chore,  which  demanded 
experience,  discipline  and  faith  in  oneself, 
says  Emanuel.  "Thanks  to  Dave's  knowl- 
edge, perseverance  and  talent."  he  adds, 
"this  project  is  now  well  under  way." 

Another  colleague  and  co-researcher, 
John  Orr.  says  that  Dave's  pleasure  is 
obviously  in  accomplishing  the  research 
work  itself,  rather  than  in  showing  off  his 
own  ability.  Regardless  of  the  origin  of  an 
idea,  his  references  are  always  to  "our" 
work,  Orr  explains.  "Also,"  he  says, 
"Dave  has  the  'fastest  hand  in  the  East' 
when  it  comes  to  writing  on  a  chalk 
board."  According  to  Orr.  he  can  produce 
pictures,  equations  and  explanations  at  an 
incredible  rate. 

In  1982,  in  recognition  of  his  accom- 
plishments in  research,  Cyganski  was 
named  the  first  Joseph  Samuel  Satin  Dis- 
tinguished Fellow  at  WPI.  "The  fellow- 


ship enabled  me  to  do  further  research  in 
the  area  of  robot  vision."  he  says,  "an 
opportunity  for  which  I  am  most  grateful." 

Currently,  he  is  deeply  involved  in  the 
field  of  robot  vision.  "Robots  have  to  be 
smart,"  he  says.  "They  not  only  have  to  be 
able  to  'see'  objects,  they  must  be  able  to 
identify  them.  They  must  be  made  more 
sophisticated." 

To  this  end.  Cyganski  has  done  exten- 
sive research  and  has  written  many  papers 
on  the  subject.  "We  are  on  the  threshold  of 
a  breakthrough  in  robotics  at  WPI."  he 
asserts. 

Wfhen  not  teaching,  advising  or 
doing  research.  Cyganski  serves 
on  faculty,  administrative  and 
departmental  committees  at  WPI.  He  cur- 
rently serves  on  the  Computer  Advisory 
Committee  and  is  chairman  of  the  Com- 
mittee on  Academic  Policy. 

At  home,  his  interests  turn  toward  ham 
radio.  "I've  loved  ham  radio  since  gram- 
mar school,"  he  confesses.  "I  have  talked 
with  people  all  around  the  world.  It's  a 
wonderful  hobby." 

When  he  was  in  high  school,  he  made 
his  own  receivers,  antennas  and  other  cir- 
cuits. "Now.  I'm  more  or  less  a  weekend 
operator  trying  to  keep  up  my  skills." 

Recently,  while  aboard  the  Queen  Mary, 
which  is  currently  a  ship-hotel  docked  at 
Long  Beach,  CA,  his  hobby  served  as  an 
unexpected  "open  sesame"  to  off-limits 
portions  of  the  ship.  "When  the  radio 
room  crewman,  a  ham  radio  operator  him- 
self, learned  that  I,  too,  was  an  operator, 
he  invited  me  right  into  the  radio  room  and 
let  me  use  the  equipment,"  he  reports.  "It 
was  great!" 

Other  pastimes  are  running  home  com- 
puters, reading  science  fiction  and  collect- 
ing comic  books.  And,  speaking  of  run- 
ning, he  jogs  every  day. 

Still,  teaching— and  student  advising— 
are  always  right  up  there  heading  the  list  of 
Cyganski's  interests.  He  counsels  graduate 
students  with  their  theses  and  undergradu- 
ates with  their  MQPs  and  IQPs.  He  seems 
to  truly  enjoy  helping  others.  Most  of  all. 
he  likes  taking  the  mystery  out  of  learning. 

William  Grogan.  '46.  dean  of  under- 
graduate studies  at  WPI,  sums  up 
Cyganski  in  a  single,  succinct  sentence: 
"Dave  is  a  dynamic,  natural-bom  teacher 
and  a  brilliant  researcher,  but  above  all.  he 
has  a  deep  personal  concern  for  his  col- 
lege, his  colleagues  and  especially,  his  stu- 
dents." 

This  year,  if  a  teaching  Olympics  had 
been  held  at  WPI,  David  Cyganski  would 
have  walked  off  with  the  gold. 


NOVEMBER  1984       35 


WPI  CLASS  NOTES 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President.  Harry  W.  Tenney.  '56 
Senior  Vice  President 

Paul  W.  Bayliss.  60 
Vice  President 

Richard  B.  Kennedy.  '65 
Secretary-Treasurer 

Stephen  J.  Hebert.  '66 
Past  President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann.  '55 

Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 
Henry  P.  Allessio.  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank,  "46 
William  J.  Firla,  Jr..  '60 
Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty.  '75 

Fund  Board 

Allen  H.  Levesque.  '59.  Chair 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr..  '56 
Richard  A.  Davis.  '53 
Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68 
C.  John  Lindegren.  Jr.,  '39 
David  B.  Denniston.  '58 
Francis  W.  Madigan.  Jr..  '53 
George  P.  Strom.  '56 


1920 


Reunion 


1925 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Reunion 


1930 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


1933 

Norm  Clark  reports  that  he  recently  attended  a 
very  special  reunion,  the  100th  anniversary  of 
Dudley  YMCA  Boys'  Camp  at  Westport,  NY, 
the  oldest  organized  boys'  camp  in  the  U.S. 

Raymond  Crawford  of  Oakham.  MA, 
writes,  "In  my  fifth  year  as  a  selectman.  Am 
now  chairman  of  the  board."  He  also  has  a  two- 
acre  garden,  and  writes  a  garden  column  for 
The  Hamburg  (NY)  Sun.  In  1969.  he  retired  as 
a  group  leader  and  senior  scientist  in  the 


research  department  at  Allied  Chemical.  He  has 
taught  general  chemistry  at  West  Seneca  (NY) 
High  School  and  taught  as  a  substitute  in  North 
Brookfield,  Quabbin  and  Wachusett  high 
schools  in  Massachusetts.  Currently,  he  serves 
as  Oakham  correspondent  for  The  Barre 
Gazette  and  as  president  of  the  Oakham  Histori- 
cal Association.  "No  time  to  grow  old,"  he 
says.  He  has  one  daughter,  three  granddaugh- 
ters and  one  great-grandchild. 

After  working  50  years  as  an  actuary  in  vari- 
ous companies  in  the  East  and  Midwest,  Frank 
Dodge  retired  with  his  wife  in  1983  to  Venice, 
FL.  He  says  they  are  at  last  finding  time  to  do 
some  of  the  many  things  that  couldn't  be  done 
in  a  working  lifetime. 

No  wonder  Ev  and  John  Henrickson  did  so 
well  in  the  golf  tournament  at  our  50th  reunion. 
We  hear  they  are  playing  four  to  five  times  a 
week  on  different  courses  as  members  of  a 
"Grasshopper"  group,  and  that  their  handicaps 
are  17  and  1 1  respectively.  They,  along  with  54 
other  couples  who  are  residents  of  Sun  City 
Center  in  Florida,  are  members  of  a  dinner 
dance  club  that  meets  monthly.  These  activi- 
ties, combined  with  sessions  with  grandchil- 
dren and  a  yearly  visit  to  John's  home  town 
of  Holden,  "make  for  a  top-notch  life  of 
retirement." 

Harry  Jensen  is  living  proof  of  the  fact  that 
no  matter  how  busy  a  person  may  be  during  his 
professional  career,  he  probably  will  be  just  as 
busy  in  retirement.  Since  he  left  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft as  vice  president  of  engineering  in  1978, 
Harry  has  found  his  time  fully  occupied  with 
fishing,  along  with  maintenance  of  his  boat  and 
his  homes  in  Connecticut  and  Florida.  He  also 
does  a  little  consulting  when  it  doesn't  interfere 
with  the  fishing.  He  and  his  wife,  Kay,  have 
eleven  grandchildren.  He  is  hoping  to  steer  the 
oldest  grandson  to  WPI  next  year. 

Wes  Reed  finds,  as  do  so  many  of  us  in 
retirement,  that  he  just  doesn't  seem  to  have 
enough  time  to  spend  doing  the  things  he  antici- 
pated, such  as  traveling,  or  pursuing  his  hobby, 
which  is  collecting  antique  musical  instru- 
ments. Instead,  he's  busy  on  committees  and 
boards,  as  well  as  maintaining  his  20-room 
house  and  its  grounds,  which  he  describes  as 
"four  acres  of  recalcitrant  grass,  trees  and 
brambles." 

We  are  sorry  to  hear  that  Art  Smith  is  seri- 
ously ill.  He  is  now  at  Crestfield  Convalescent 
Home  in  Manchester,  CT. 

Al  Brownlee,  Class  Secretan- 


1935 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


1937 


Harold  Cox  writes  that  his  daughter.  Alice 
Mignerey.  is  now  a  full  professor  of  nuclear 
chemistry  at  the  University  of  Maryland. 

Roland  Farrar,  Sr.  serves  as  president  of 
Inspection  Service,  Palm  Harbor,  FL. 


1939 


Richard  Muller  has  retired.  He  had  been  with 
Tucker  Associates,  East  Longmeadow,  MA. 

Leo  Rourke  is  retired  from  Tenneco-New- 
port  News  (VA)  Shipbuilding. 


1940 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Robert  Gibbs  is  a  staff  engineer  in  electronics 
at  Bridgewater  (MA)  State  College. 

Edward  Goodrich,  formerly  employed  by 
the  state  of  Ohio,  has  retired.  He  writes  that  he 
and  his  wife.  Larue,  spend  five  months  of  the 
year  in  St.  Petersburg,  FL. 


1943 


Arthur  Medine,  Jr.  has  retired.  He  had  been 
superintendent  of  engineering  in  the  grinding 
wheel  division  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 

Richard  Whitcomb,  research  associate  at 
the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space  Adminis- 
tration Langley  Research  Center,  recently 
delivered  the  fifth  H.S.  Stillwell  Memorial  Lec- 
ture at  the  University  of  Illinois  at  Urbana- 
Champaign.  His  topic  was  "NASA  Research 
on  Laminar  Boundary  Layer  Control." 


1944 


Following  a  successful  career  in  industrial  con- 
sulting, especially  with  Hustler  Inc.  ("No.  1 
CB  antenna  supplier  when  the  boom  was  on"), 
Ralph  Allen  is  now  located  in  Ft.  Lauderdale, 
FL,  where  he  "restricts"  himself  to  local 
assignments  and  gets  home  every  night.  Early 
in  his  career,  he  was  with  ITT,  Sanders  Associ- 
ates, Schlumberger  Ltd.  and  RAE  Corporation. 
Gordon  Anderson  serves  as  senior  staff 
engineer  with  ISO  Commercial  Risk  Services 
Inc..   Parsippany,   NJ.    He   is  still   primarily 


36       WPI  JOURNAL 


involved  with  evaluation  and  public  fire 
protection. 

Lou  Baldini  writes  that  he  is  licensed  in  33 
states  doing  work  for  two  national  clients  listed 
on  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange.  He  is  vice 
president  and  chief  electrical  engineer  with  IC 
Thomasson  Associates  in  Nashville,  TN.  Once 
a  year  he  goes  to  Mexico  or  Alaska  on  a  fishing 
trip. 

Ned  Bigelow,  manager  of  the  electronic 
structures  unit  forGE  in  Schenectady.  NY.  says 
that  he  commutes  to  the  R&D  center  by  canoe. 
In  his  leisure  time,  he  sails  Windsurfers  and  a 
Shark  "whenever  possible."  He  holds  38  pat- 
ents and  has  published  about  50  articles. 

Norman  Blodgett  reports  that  the  hottest 
item  his  Worcester  law  firm  (patent,  trademark, 
copyright  law)  is  handling  at  the  moment 
"seems  to  be  computer  programs."  The 
Blodgetts  bought  the  Oak  Hill  Inn  at  Cape  Cod 
in  1960.  "My  old  1910  Crosby  catboat  is 
anchored  out  front,"  he  writes. 

After  25  years  in  Washington,  DC,  with  the 
Navy  Department,  Philip  Brown  retired  in 
1978  to  Amherst,  MA.  While  in  Washington, 
he  served  as  chief  geotechnical  engineer  for  the 
department  and  was  concerned  with  construc- 
tion and  maintenance  of  naval  stations,  port 
facilities,  etc.  in  the  Pacific,  Europe  and  South- 
east Asia  during  the  Vietnam  buildup.  In  retire- 
ment, he  is  doing  some  consulting  and  is  trying 
to  learn  to  play  golf. 

Newton  Burr,  management  consultant  for 
Profit  Management  Development  Inc.,  Bar- 
rington,  IL,  writes  that  he  has  consulted  in 
milk,  ice  cream  and  cheese  plants  all  over  the 
U.S.  and  Canada.  Clients  have  included  Hood, 
Borden,  Meadow  Gold  and  Land  o' Lakes.  Pre- 
viously, he  ran  his  family's  milk  plant  for  18 
years.  When  the  plant  merged  with  Brock  Hall 
Dairy,  he  worked  for  that  company  for  five 
years. 

Don  Buser,  former  manager  of  design  engi- 
neering at  Allied  Corp..  retired  last  year.  Ear- 
lier, he  had  been  with  Ford,  Bacon  and  Davis, 
Chemical  Construction  Corporation  and  Stan- 
dard Oil  of  New  Jersey.  In  1955,  he  contracted 
polio,  which  left  his  mobility  severely  limited. 
"Thanks  to  the  automobile  I've  led  a  reasona- 
bly normal  life."  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn. 

Sherman  Campbell  continues  as  manager  of 
R&D  at  Champion  Products  Inc.,  Perry,  NY. 
He  is  concerned  with  innovations  on  screen 
printing  of  textiles.  Besides  being  active  with 
his  local  church,  he  serves  as  treasurer  of  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce.  He  enjoys  National 
Ski  Patrol  activities  and  golf. 

Last  year,  Richard  Carson  retired  as  chief 
project  engineer  for  Texaco  Inc.,  Houston.  His 
responsibilities  included  management  of  design 
and  construction  of  a  co-generation  system, 
which  was  completed  just  before  his  retirement. 
He  had  been  with  Texaco  for  37  years.  Over  the 
years,  he  has  been  involved  with  Boy  Scout 
work,  sailing  and  trailering. 

John  Chandler  is  not  only  vice  president  of 
York  International  (Borg- Warner),  but  he  also 
is  the  registered  federal  lobbyist  for  the  com- 
pany. He  says  he  finds  lobbying  "extremely 
interesting."  Throughout  his  career  in  Washing- 
ton, DC,  he  has  been  active  with  the  Ship- 
builders Council  of  America,  the  Navy  League, 
the  Society  of  Naval  Architects  and  Marine 
Engineers  and  the  American  Society  of  Naval 
Engineers,  among  others.  He  is  chairman  of  the 


orthopedic  committee  of  the  Kiwanis  Club  and 
president  of  the  University  Club  of  Washing- 
ton, DC. 

Charles  Cooper,  engineering  manager  of 
Lawson-Hemphill,  Central  Falls,  RI,  has  been 
granted  three  patents.  Earlier  he  had  been  with 
Scott  Testers  and  Augat  Inc.  For  several  years, 
he  ran  the  family  business.  He  served  in  the 
Navy  during  the  Korean  conflict,  the  Berlin  cri- 
sis and  the  Cuban  missile  crisis.  He  is  a  retired 
captain  in  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserve. 

Last  year  Stewart  Dalzell  retired  as  a  quality 
engineer  from  Stanley  Tools,  New  Britain,  CT. 
Prior  to  retirement,  he  had  been  involved  with 
church  and  YMCA  work  in  the  Kensington 
area.  The  Dalzells  now  reside  in  Humarock, 
MA,  where  they  recently  "rebuilt  our  summer 
home  on  the  water." 

Vladimir  Dimitroff  is  senior  control  engi- 
neer for  GE's  medium  steam  turbine  depart- 
ment in  Lynn,  MA.  He  joined  GE  in  1947. 
Currently,  he  is  moderator  of  his  local  church 
and  belongs  to  an  organ  club,  which  he  has 
served  as  president. 

Peter  Dooley,  who  worked  for  30  years  for 
Carborundum  in  three  different  divisions, 
retired  as  plant  engineer  in  the  textile  division. 
He  now  does  consulting  work  in  machine 
design  and  prototype  construction  of  machine 
elements  in  his  own  development  shop.  He  is 
located  in  Lewiston,  NY.  Involved  in  Presbyte- 
rian church  work,  he  is  also  active  with 
Masonic  activities,  including  Shrine  Hospitals 
for  Crippled  Children. 

Einar  Eriksen  holds  the  post  of  manufactur- 
ing manager  at  Waldes  Kohinoor  Inc.,  Long 
Island  City,  NY.  Previously,  he  was  with  Auto- 
mation Engineering  Laboratory,  Stamford,  CT. 
Early  in  his  career,  a  leak  in  a  village  gas  main 
destroyed  a  plant  that  he  owned.  While  operat- 
ing his  own  business,  he  built  and  installed  the 
mechanical  equipment  for  the  first  penicillin 
production  facility  in  South  Korea.  For  recrea- 
tion, he  performs  with  a  group  called  the  Blaue 
Jungs,  "singing  German  sea  chanteys  for  any- 
one who  wants  to  listen." 


1945 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Albert  Myers  has  been  appointed  to  the 
newly  created  post  of  corporate  vice  president 
of  purchasing  at  Lear  Siegler  Inc.  in  Mt.  Cle- 
mens, MI.  For  four  years  prior  to  his  promo- 
tion, he  had  been  vice  president  of  the  firm's 
commercial  products  group.  He  has  also  held 
executive  manufacturing  positions  with  General 
Motors,  Franklin  Electric  and  H.K.  Porter  Co. 
Lear  Siegler,  headquartered  in  Santa  Monica, 
CA,  produces  aerospace,  automotive,  material 
handling  and  commercial-industrial  products. 


1947 


Edward  Swierz  was  recently  named  senior 
bridge  engineer  on  the  headquarters  staff  of  the 
state  highway  commissioner  within  the  New 
Hampshire  Department  of  Public  Works  and 
Highways  at  Concord.  For  the  past  14  years, 
Swierz,  who  is  a  professional  engineer,  has 
served  as  bridge  engineer.  In  his  new  post,  he 


will  be  responsible  for  renewed  emphasis  on 
state  bridge  inspection  and  for  developing  a 
long-range  bridge  replacement  policy  and  pro- 
gram for  the  department.  He  began  his  career  as 
a  bridge  designer  in  1947,  and  was  named  chief 
of  design  of  interstate  bridges  in  1961  and 
assistant  bridge  division  engineer  in  1968. 


1949 


Thomas  Coonan  III  writes  that  he  is  still  with 
Du  Pont's  polymer  products  department  in  Chi- 
cago. He  has  three  children  in  college. 

Dr.  Wellen  Davison,  professor  of  mechani- 
cal engineering  at  Western  New  England  Col- 
lege, Springfield,  MA,  has  been  named  vice 
president  for  Region  I  (New  England)  of  the 
ASME.  With  Western  New  England  College 
since  1958,  he  has  served  as  chairman  of  the 
ME  department  for  12  years.  Previously,  he 
was  a  design  engineer  in  refrigeration  and  air 
conditioning  for  Westinghouse.  He  has  an 
MSME  from  RPI  and  a  PhD  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut.  A  member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Heating,  Refrigerating  and  Air-Con- 
ditioning  Engineers,  he  also  belongs  to  the 
Association  of  Energy  Engineers,  the  American 
Society  of  Engineering  Education,  Sigma  Xi 
and  Pi  Tau  Sigma.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Massachusetts. 

William  Jacques,  now  retired  following  33 
years  of  federal  service,  spends  half  the  year  in 
Winchendon,  MA,  and  half  in  Vero  Beach,  FL. 

William  Reeves  is  manager  of  engineering 
data  support  at  GE  Ordnance  Systems  in  Pitts- 
field.  MA. 


1950 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


1953 

MARRIED:  Bill  Nagel  and  Jeanne  Weber  on 
June  16.  1984.  in  Newtown,  PA.  They  write 
they  would  enjoy  hearing  from  old  friends  at 
767  Chesham  Turn,  Southampton,  PA  18966. 

George  Abdow  and  his  brother,  Ronald,  now 
own  and  operate  15  Big  Boy  restaurants, 
including  four  in  Worcester,  and  one  in  Avon, 
CT,  which  opened  in  July.  They  also  own  the 
Ivanhoe  Restaurant  in  West  Springfield  and  P.J. 
Scott's,  another  new  venture  in  Chicopee.  Since 
opening  their  first  restaurant  in  1959,  business 
has  grown  from  270,000  customers  to  7  million 
last  year.  Their  Big  Boy  restaurants  employ 
1,275  people,  including  450  full  time.  The 
business  section  of  the  Springfield  paper,  the 
Morning  Union,  ran  a  feature  article  about  the 
Abdows  last  June. 


1955 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Brian  Kelly,  vice  president  of  operations  for 
Bell  of  Pennsylvania,  was  the  keynote  speaker 
at  the    1984  conference  of  the   Pennsylvania 


NOVEMBER  1984       37 


Municipal  Author  ation  in  Hershe> 

BBSL  His  topic  w„ 
the  Telephone  Industry  he  is  respon- 

sible for  construe:  -i>ialla- 

tioa  and  associated  staff  tunc    ms 


1956 


Henry  Dumas  has  joined  Eastern  Air  D. 

\H.  where  he  k  es  manager, 

be  responsible  for  directing  Eastern  "s 
^presenuiive  organizations.  Previous!). 
.  kre  president  of  sales  for  General  Scan- 
ning   Inc..    Waterloo n.    MA      Eastern    Air 
Devices  is  a  major  manufacturer  of  motors, 
tans  and  blowers. 

The  Emhart  Corp..  Berlin.  CT.  has  appointed 
David  GUda  as  vice  president  of  engineering 
for  its  hardware  division.  Formerly,  he  was 
manager  of  resident  engineering  and  quality 
control  at  the  GE  small-appliance  dmsaoa  in 
Allentown.  PA.  He  had  been  with  GE  since 
1968.  At  Emhart.  he  will  direct  and  coordinate 
research  and  development  of  new  products, 
product  engineering  and  quality  control 
programs. 

\lbtrt  Palmer 


for  Superior  Electric  in  Bristol.  CT 

Peter  Stephens  works  as  a  marketing  repre- 
sentative for  the  wholesale  and  industrial  busi- 
ness at  Ewon  Co.  USA.  Houston 


1958 


In  June.  Titan  Chemical  Inc..  co-founded  by 
company  president  Harvey  Berger.  began 
operations  in  Sunnyvale.  CA.  The  firm  manu- 
factures a  safety  degreaser  and  industrial 
cleaner  called  Oil-Flo  Safety  Degreaser.  w  hich 
dissolves  surface  contaminants  such  as  grease, 
oil.  tar  and  asphalt.  The  product  emulsifies  the 
grease  or  smudge  so  it  can  be  rinsed  away. 
Berger  was  president  of  Diversified  Electron- 
ics, selling  his  interests  in  1981.  Currently,  he 
is  director  of  Gifford  Computer  Systems.  He 
graduated  from  Harvard  Business  School . 

Paul  DaJtOD  writes  that  he  is  still  with  Mon- 
santo after  26  years.  Currently,  he  is  director  of 
technology  for  the  fabricated  products  division. 

William  Gess.  Jr.  has  a  new  post  as  senior 
consulting  engineer  for  the  Undersea  Electron- 
ics Products  Department  at  GE  in  Svracuse. 
NY 

Phil  Lenz  has  been  promoted  to  senior  dis- 


trict sales  engineer  in  the  New  England  district 
of  Armcos  Construction  Products  Division.  He 
will  direct  promotion  and  sales  efforts  in  the 
state  of  Connecticut.  In  1969.  he  started  his 
Armco  career  as  a  sales  engineer  with  the 
former  New  England  Metal  Culvert  Co.  in 
Cheshire.  CT.  In  1974.  he  was  named  district 
sales  engineer  in  Wallingford.  He  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer  and  belongs  to  the  ASCE 
and  to  the  Connecticut  Society  of  Professional 
Eneineers. 

Bill  O'Neil  left  GE  last  fall  following  23 
years  of  service.  He  is  now  self-employed  in 
the  computer  business  with  two  former  GE 
employ  ees 

Roy  Pearson  is  employed  as  marketing  man- 
ager at  Pratt  &.  Whitnev  Aircraft.  East  Hart- 
ford. CT. 


1959 


Recently.  Thomas  Hill  was  elected  chairman 
of  the  235-member  Marlboro  (MA)  Demo- 
cratic Committee.  He  is  senior  program 
manager  in  charge  of  special  programs  at  Av  oo 
Systems  Division  in  Wilmington.  A  former 
president  off  the  Richer  School   Home  and 


George  Washington 
Was  Here! 


William  Slagle.  Jr..  "33.  the  newly  elected 
president  of  the  Roy  all  House  Association 
■  McJfoid,  MA.  is  a  man  who  like 
look  at  the  past  while  keeping  his  eye  on 
the  future. 

Lillian  Bombaci.  publicity  chair- 
man at  Royall  House.  "Bill  is  one  of  the 
most  efficient,  capable  and  cheerful  lead- 
ers we've  ever  had.  He's  instituted  many 
new  programs." 

Bills  latest  "domain"  is  one  of  the  old- 
est houses  in  America.  "We  can't  prove 
George  Washington  slept  here."  he 
"but  we  know  that  he  conferred  in  "The 
Marble  Chamber"  when  the  house  was 
General  John  Stark's  headquarters  " 

The  estate  goes  back  to  1631.  when 
Gov.  John  Winthrop  was  granted  600 
acres  on  which  he  built  a  brick  farmhouse 
with  a  broad  view  of  the  Mystic  River. 
Bricks  brought  as  ship's  ballast  from 
England  in  1637  can  still  be  seen  in  the 
house's  original  sections. 

In  1732.  Col.  Isaac  Royall.  a  Maine 
native  who  amassed  a  fortune  in  Antigua. 
B.W.I..  purchased  the  house  and  trans- 
formed it  into  a  choice  example  of  Geor- 
gian architecture. 

"In  my  opinion,  nothing  else  like  it 
:n  America  today."  Bill  says.  "The 
house  is  faced  with  different  materials  on 
each  of  its  four  sides.  It  has  12  fireplaces, 
which  in  the  colonel's  day  were  tended  by 
27  sL 

"'Royall  House  is  an  integral  part  of 


Examining  Royall  House  painting  in  generals '  conference  room 


American  history."  Bill  explains.  "A  Bos- 
ton Tea  Party  lacquered  Chinese  tea  box 
was  formerly  kept  on  display  here  and  is 
now  in  the  D.A.R.  Museum." 

Bill  is  retired  from  the  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  (31  \earsi  and  the  Massachu- 


setts Division  of  Water  Pollution  Control 
( 16  years).  He  is  an  active  member  of  the 
West  Medford  Congregational  Church, 
having  served  as  church  clerk  for  the  past 
1 8  years.  He  is  also  a  past  president  of  the 
Medford  Council  of  Churches. 


38       ^PI  JOURNAL 


School  Associalion  and  a  past  president  of 
the  city's  home  and  school  associations,  he 
belongs  to  several  professional  engineering 
associations. 

Wilfrid  Houde  has  just  taken  over  as  presi- 
dent and  chief  executive  officer  of  ViMart 
Corp..  Los  Gatos.  CA.  a  firm  which  he  helped 
found  last  year.  The  company's  laser  disk  dis- 
play captures  brief  segments  of  1 80  entertain- 
ment, educational  and  personal  productivity 
software  programs.  A  potential  buyer  would  tap 
a  command  on  a  simple  key  pad  to  view  soft- 
ware on  a  TV  monitor  in  a  computer  store. 
Included  among  the  titles  are  40  of  the  most 
popular  software  packages  for  Atari.  IBM.  and 
Commodore  computers,  as  well  as  Apple  Com- 
puter, where  Houde  recently  served  for  five 
years  as  vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
the  personal  computers  systems  division. 

John  Wary  is  with  Linde  Photocure.  Indian- 
apolis. IN 


1960 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


1963 

Roland  Kuehn  was  recently  appointed  to  the 
school  committee  in  Franklin.  MA.  Previously, 
he  was  a  member  of  the  town  finance  commit- 
tee. He  holds  a  master's  degree  in  management 
from  Northeastern  University  and  is  employed 
as  manager  of  process  and  energy  engineering 
for  Hollingsworth  &  Vose.  a  paper  company  in 
East  Walpole. 

Charles  Menzigian  serves  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer for  AT&T  Communications  in  San 
Francisco. 


1964 


Dr.  David  Laananen  is  an  associate  professor 
at  Arizona  State  University  in  Tempe. 

John  Macko,  formerly  a  government  liaison 
manager  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft.  West 
Palm  Beach.  FL.  retired  this  year.  He  plans  to 
"take  a  mid-career  sabbatical  traveling  through 
the  USA  and  Europe." 

Eugene  Niemi,  who  has  a  BS  from  BU.  an 
MS  from  WPI  and  a  PhD  from  UMass.  has 
been  promoted  to  full  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  the  University  of  Lowell  (MA). 
He  is  a  registered  professional  engineer. 


1965 


Reunion 


Mav  30-June  2,  1985 


Thomas  Arcari,  Sr.  of  Plainville.  CT.  has 
been  promoted  to  senior  engineer  at  Northeast 
Utilities.  In  1969.  he  started  with  the  firm  as  a 
civil  engineer  in  the  transmission  and  distribu- 
tion group  at  the  general  offices  in  Berlin.  In 
1981.  he  was  advanced  to  licensing  engineer  in 
the  generation  facilities  licensing  branch  of  the 
nuclear  engineering  department.  A  registered 


professional  engineer  in  Connecticut.  Massa- 
chusetts. New  York  and  Maine.  Arcari  holds  an 
MSCE  from  UConn. 

Walter  Chang  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent of  General  Electric  Technical  Sen.  ices,  a 
worldwide  subsidiary  of  the  General  Electric 
Co.  He  is  responsible  for  market  development 
for  aircraft  gas-turbine  products  in  the  People's 
Republic  of  China.  Prior  to  receiving  his 
MSME  from  WPI.  he  graduated  with  a  BSME 
from  Southeastern  Massachusetts  University. 
He  has  been  with  GE  for  16  years  in  the  aircraft 
engine  group. 

Roy  Cornelius,  Jr.  is  director  of  support  ser- 
vices for  Newton  i  MA)  public  schools. 

David  Geiger  was  recently  named  manager 
of  the  Torrington  Company's  standard  plant. 
Torrington.  CT.  Previously,  he  was  manager  of 
personnel  labor  relations  for  Torrington  opera- 
tions. In  1965.  he  joined  the  company  as  a  man- 
ufacturing project  engineer  at  the  standard 
plant.  He  holds  a  master's  in  management  from 
RPI. 

Paul  Pearson  and  his  family  started  hiking 
on  a  beginner's  course  a  couple  of  years  ago. 
This  year,  they  will  each  be  competing  indepen- 
dently within  their  separate  classes.  "This  is  a 
different  type  of  activity  which  we  enjoy  very 
much."  he  writes.  He  and  his  wife  also  play 
duplicate  bridge.  Last  fall.  Paul  was  recognized 
by  the  American  Contract  Bridge  League  as 
having  fulfilled  the  requirements  for  the  rank  of 
life  master. 

Dr.  "Buddy"  Watson  serves  as  a  com- 
mander of  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps  for  the 
U.S.  Navy.  He  and  his  wife.  Titia.  and  two 
daughters  reside  in  Port  Hueneme.  CA. 


1966 


Paul  Bujak  is  principal  engineer  for  Goodyear 
Tire&  Rubber  Co..  Akron.  OH. 

Gary  Dyckman  has  been  elected  vice  presi- 
dent off  Cy  gna  Energy  Serv  ices  and  has  taken 
on  the  responsibility  of  general  manager  of  the 
firm's  Boston  office. 

Richard  Healer  is  principal  systems  engi- 
neer at  the  Foxboro  (MA)  Company.  He  and 
his  wife.  Carol,  have  two  children  and  reside 
in  Dover. 

Dan  Maguire  has  been  named  a  vice  presi- 
dent in  the  Chicago  office  off  Turner  Construc- 
tion Company.  In  1968  he  joined  Turner's  Bos- 
ton office.  In  1977  he  was  assigned  business 
development  responsibilities  in  the  Chicago 
office,  and  in  1978  he  was  instrumental  in 
developing  the  Chicago  territory  's  Special  Proj- 
ects Division,  which  he  manages.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Chicago. 

Harry  Ogasian  is  a  senior  electronics 
engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor 
Locks.  CT 

Joe  Pastic,  with  the  U.S.  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development.  Department  off  State,  is 
currently  on  assignment  in  Cairo,  Egypt 

Chester  Patch  III  is  now  contract  manager 
for  Becon  Construction  Co.,  Houston.  TX. 

Michael  Salvini  holds  the  post  of  » ice  presi- 
dent of  Manufacturing  for  North  American 
Wire  Products,  a  producer  of  high-grade  carbon 
and  spring  wire. 

John  Tata  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of 
marketing  at  Citv  Stationers  Inc.  in  Leominster. 
MA. 


1967 


Allen  Griswold  holds  the  post  of  product  man- 
ager at  Ferranti  ORE.  in  Falmouth.  MA 

Walter  Johnson  is  a  member  of  the  engi- 
neering faculty  at  State  University  of  New  York 
in  Binghamton.  He  is  also  employed  by  IBM  in 
Owego. 

Gary  Rosen  has  been  appointed  executive 
director  of  Junior  Achievement  of  Central  Mas- 
sachusetts. Since  1967.  he  has  taught  chemistry 
at  Worcester's  Doherty  Memorial  High  School. 
Also,  he  has  served  as  coordinator  of  the 
school's  SITE  internship  program  (Students 
Involved  in  Their  Education),  a  career  educa- 
tion program  which  allows  selected  twelfth- 
grade  students  to  supplement  their  traditional 
academic  courses  with  unpaid  internships  in  the 
community. 

Dick  Shaw,  a  high-tech  electronics  engineer. 
gives  belly  dancing  performances  on  weekends. 
"I  don't  do  hootchy-kootchy."  he  says.  His 
dance  relies  on  style  and  grace.  "It's  a  hobby." 
he  explains.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
Bryant  College. 

Gary  Willis  of  Mansfield.  MA.  was  recently 
elected  a  vice  president  of  the  Foxboro  Com- 
pany. He  was  formerly  general  manager  of  the 
company's  analytical  operations  in  Plymouth. 
In  1975  he  joined  the  firm  as  a  major-product 
coordinator  with  the  power  sales  organization. 
Subsequently,  he  held  increasingly  responsible 
posts.  He  is  a  senior  member  of  the  Instrument 
Society  of  America  and  belongs  to  the  Scien- 
tific Apparatus  Makers"  Association. 


1968 


MARRIED:  Richard  Mayer  to  Joan  Spalding 
in  Tamworth.  NH.  on  June  30.  1984.  Joan, 
who  holds  degrees  from  the  University  of  Min- 
nesota and  the  University  of  Michigan,  is  an 
independent  film  and  video  producer  for  Cul- 
tural Images  Group.  Mayer  serves  as  project 
manager  for  James  Rivers  Graphics  in  Hadley. 
MA.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Western  New 
England  College. 

William  Belisle  is  now  self-employed  with 
Belisle  &  Associates  in  West  Garden  Grove. 
CA. 

John  kokoszka  works  as  manager  of  proc ess 
engineering  with  GE's  Norvl  products  in  Sel- 
kirk. NY. 

William  McCann,  Jr.  holds  the  post  of  se- 
nior engineer  at  Boston  Edison.  He  writes. 
"I'm  currently  on  loan  to  INPO  in  Atlanta.  GA." 

Joseph  Owens  III,  who  received  his  PhD  in 
physics  from  Tufts,  is  an  associate  professor  at 
Florida  State  University  in  Tallahassee.  He  and 
his  wife.  Linda,  have  two  children. 

Cary  Palulis  has  been  promoted  to  interna- 
tional accounts  manager  for  the  Edwin  Cooper 
Div  ision  of  Ethy  I  Corp. 

Marshall  Taylor  has  been  elected  senior  v  ice 
president  of  development  of  Ryder  System  Inc. 
Previously,  he  was  vice  president  of  planning 
and  treasurer  of  Ryder,  a  S2.4  billion  (revenue) 
transportation,  distribution  and  businc- 
vices  company.  With  the  firm  since  1974,  he 
has  held  a  number  of  posts,  including  manager 
of  capital  planning,  director  of  corporate  plan- 
ning, assistant  treasurer,  treasurer  and  vice 
,  president    Before  joining  Ryder,  he  was  with 


NOVEMBER  1984       39 


Jerry  Finkle  at  Wachusett  Molding 

Happiness  Is  Your 
Own  Business 

Back  in  1961,  a  big  manufacturer  of  cos- 
metic containers  offered  Gerald  Finkle, 
'57  ME,  the  post  of  division  head.  He 
turned  it  down.  "I  decided,"  says  Jerry, 
"if  they  were  so  impressed  with  my  abili- 
ties, that  I  should  have  enough  confidence 
in  myself  to  start  my  own  business." 

Finkle,  who  had  had  engineering  experi- 
ence with  Elliott  Co.  and  Nylon  Products 
Corp.,  decided  that  the  fledgling  plastics 
industry  looked  promising.  "At  the  time, 
few  companies  knew  how  to  convert  metal 
and  glass  parts  to  plastic,"  he  explains.  "It 
seemed  like  a  good  place  to  start." 

So,  with  $18,000  in  capital,  which  pro- 
vided him  with  a  1 ,600-square-foot  build- 
ing and  a  single  molding  machine,  Jerry 
Finkle  launched  Wachusett  Molding  Com- 
pany in  West  Boylston,  MA.  Today, 
because  of  his  commitment  and  dedica- 
tion, the  company  has  expanded  to  50,000 
square  feet,  31  machines  and  75  employ- 


ees, who  manufacture  as  many  as  40  mil- 
lion parts  a  week. 

After  the  first  ten  years,  the  firm  became 
prosperous.  Finkle  declares,  however,  that 
the  most  rewarding  part  of  building  his 
business  has  been  the  sense  of  accomplish- 
ment, not  the  monetary  value.  "I  love  my 
work,"  he  says.  "I  found  out  early  on  that 
I  didn't  enjoy  working  for  somebody  else. 
I  like  being  my  own  boss." 

The  future  of  Wachusett  Molding,  he 
says,  is  in  the  manufacture  of  medical/ 
pharmaceutical  components  such  as  vials, 
tubes,  kits  and  personal-care  products. 
Already,  the  West  Boylston  plant  is  too 
small.  Last  winter,  he  opened  a  second 
plant  in  Worcester. 

Finkle,  who  heads  the  WPI  Alumni 
Fund  Board,  is  past  president  of  the  Cen- 
tral Massachusetts  Amateur  Radio  Associ- 
ation, a  member  of  the  American  Radio 
Relay  League,  a  past  master  of  his 
Masonic  lodge  and  a  senior  member  of  the 
Society  of  Plastic  Engineers.  He  and  his 
wife,  Cynthia,  have  three  sons. 


Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  where  he  was  responsible  for 
systems  and  financial  analysis.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Babson.  Active  in  civic  affairs  in  the 
Miami  (FL)  area,  he  serves  as  treasurer  and  as  a 
member  of  the  executive  committee  of  the 
Coconut  Grove  Playhouse. 


1969 


MARRIED:  Kenneth  Amend  to  DebraAnn 
Bisceglia  on  June  23,  1984.  in  Worcester.  A 
collateral  specialist  for  Shawmut  Bank,  she 
graduated  from  Worcester  State  College.  Ken- 
neth graduated  from  Ursinus  College,  holds  a 
masters  degree  from  WPI.  and  teaches  at  St. 


Peter-Marian  High  School  in  Worcester. 

Stephen  Legomsky  continues  as  associate 
professor  of  law  at  Washington  University  Law 
School  in  St.  Louis,  MO. 

Daniel  Lorusso  is  principal  consultant  with 
Lorusso  Associates  in  Pittsfield.  MA. 

Matthew  Neclerio  holds  the  position  of  pres- 
ident at  Paramount  Electronics  Manufacturing 
Co.  and  Paramount  Sales  &  Consulting  Inc.. 
Pompano  Beach,  FL. 

John  Szostek  is  now  sales  and  marketing 
manager  at  TBV  Inc.,  in  Sutton,  MA.  The 
company  manufactures  specialty  ball  valves. 
The  Szosteks  and  their  4-year-old  son.  Jason, 
and  baby  daughter.  Corin,  reside  in  Rehoboth. 

Paul  Wolf  is  manager  of  traffic  engineering 
and  systems  planning  at  the  Northeast  Ohio 


Area-Wide  Coordinating  Agency.  He  is  also  a 
vice  president  of  the  Great  Lakes  Region  Feder- 
ation of  Jewish  Men's  Clubs. 


1970 


Reunion 


September  28,  1985 


Pramod  Koradia  was  recently  appointed  to  the 
post  of  manager  of  Selexol  technology  for  Nor- 
ton Company's  chemical-process  products  busi- 
ness in  Akron,  OH.  He  is  responsible  for 
research,  development  and  quality  control  for 
the  Selexol  solvent  process  for  purifying  natural 
and  synthetic  gases.  With  Norton  for  14  years, 
his  most  recent  position  was  manager  of  prod- 
uct research  at  the  pilot  plant  facility  at  Nor- 
ton's Chamberlain  Laboratories  in  Stow.  He 
has  an  MS  from  WPI,  belongs  to  the  AICE,  and 
was  co-inventor  of  several  patents  relating  to  a 
catalyst  having  application  in  emission  control. 

John  Mallev  is  now  generation  planning 
engineer  for  New  England  Power  Service  Co. 

Robert  Smialek  is  vice  president  of  Ameri- 
can Protection  Insurance  Co.,  vice  president  of 
Kemper  International  Insurance  Co.,  and  an 
officer  with  principal  companies  in  the  Kemper 
group.  He  has  an  associate's  degree  in  manage- 
ment, risk  management,  and  loss  control  man- 
agement and  a  CPCU  from  Insurance  Institute 
of  America. 

Bohdan  Sywak  serves  as  a  regional  staff 
industrial  engineer  for  DCASR  (U.S.  govern- 
ment) in  Philadelphia.  He  has  an  MBA  from 
Temple  University. 


1971 


MARRIED:  Raymond  Biszko  and  Lauri  Anne 
Elaine  West  on  April  29.  1984,  in  Fall  River, 
MA.  She  attended  Jackson  College,  Providence 
College  and  the  American  Institute  of  Banking. 
Prior  to  joining  the  management  of  Raymond's 
firm,  she  was  a  manager  of  Fleet  National 
Bank.  Raymond  is  president  of  Advance  Engi- 
neering Inc.  and  vice  president  of  Guaranty 
Construction  Co.,  both  located  in  Tiverton,  RI. 
.  .  .  Gregory  Dickson  and  Susan  Heam  in 
Midland.  MI.  on  July  14,  1984.  Greg  is  man- 
ager of  industrial  hygiene  at  Dow  Chemical  Co. 

George  Bakevich  serves  as  general  manager 
at  Interstate  Nuclear  Services  Corp., 
Springfield.  MA.  A  certified  financial  planner, 
he  holds  an  MS  in  nuclear  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Utah. 

Jeoffrey  Berg  works  as  a  staff  engineer  for 
Polymer  Engineering  in  Boulder,  CO. 

Neil  Collins  recently  formed  a  consulting 
firm.  Empire  Engineering,  in  Syracuse,  NY. 
The  company  provides  power  systems  engi- 
neering, economic  and  management  consulting 
services  to  the  utility  industrial  business  sec- 
tors. He  holds  an  MGS  and  an  MBA  from  WPI 
and  is  a  graduate  of  WPI's  School  of  Industrial 
Management. 

Alan  Kaechele  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
product  marketing  at  Spectragraphics  in  San 
Diego.  CA. 

Douglas  Keily  is  international  project  man- 
ager at  Combustion  Engineering  in  Windsor. 
CT. 

John  Landahl,  who  has  an  MBA  from  Nich- 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


ols  College,  Dudley.  MA,  is  a  civil  engineer 
with  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Wash- 
ington, DC. 

Vincent  Pace,  who  has  an  MSEE  from 
Drexel  and  a  JD  from  Temple  University, 
serves  as  a  patent  adviser  for  the  Naval  Air 
Development  Center  in  Warminster,  PA. 

Marshall  Shepard  works  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Torrens  Industries  in  Fyshwick, 
Australia. 

Larry  Sniegoski  has  changed  his  surname 
to  "Snow." 

David  Winer  is  a  project  engineer  at  Orion 
Research  Inc.  in  Cambridge,  MA.  In  May  he 
received  his  MBA  from  Boston  College.  He 
also  has  an  MSEE  from  Northeastern. 


1972 


In  April.  Charles  Brine  co-organized  and  co- 
chaired  a  joint  U.S. -Japan  Seminar  on  Chitin 
Chitosan  and  Related  Enzymes,  sponsored  by 
the  National  Science  Foundation  and  its  Japa- 
nese equivalent,  JSPS.  In  September,  he  co- 
edited  an  Academic  Press  hard-bound  volume 
of  the  proceedings.  These  activities  follow  his 
participation  as  a  session  chairman  of  the  Sec- 
ond International  Conference  on  Chitin  and 
Chitosan,  held  in  1982  in  Sapporo,  Japan.  He  is 
the  inventor  on  16  U.S.  and  foreign  patents  on 
this  broad  subject,  several  of  which  (regarding 
biodegradable  surgical  sutures)  have  been 
licensed  for  worldwide  commercial  develop- 
ment. He  earned  an  MS  and  a  PhD  and  did 
postdoctoral  studies  at  the  University  of  Dela- 
ware. 

Robert  Colp,  who  is  currently  "on  loan  to 
Aramco  in  Saudi  Arabia,"  expects  to  return  to 
Massachusetts  in  December. 

Michael  DiBenedetto,  a  supervisor  of  power 
resources  at  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Com- 
pany, spoke  on  the  topic  "Energy  Sources — 
Present  and  Future"  at  Woonsocket  (RI)  Junior 
High  School  in  May. 

Andrew  Lee  has  been  elected  to  a  three-year 
term  on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  Northeast- 
ern Loggers'  Association.  The  association 
includes  loggers  and  others  employed  in  the 
forest  industry  from  Maine  to  Minnesota  and 
south  to  Maryland  and  Missouri.  Lee  has 
owned  his  own  timber  harvesting  business,  Lee 
Forest  Products  Co.  Inc.,  since  1981.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  a  commercial  real  estate  manager 
in  suburban  Boston.  He  has  served  on  the 
Plymouth  Town  Forest  Committee  and  on  the 
Massachusetts  Forest  Cutting  Practices  Act 
Interim    Committee. 


1973 


MARRIED:  Capt.  David  Bedard,  USA,  to 
Angelika  Turner  in  Warwick,  RI,  on  May  31, 
1984.  Angelika  was  educated  at  Qualifizierter 
Abschluss  in  Germany.  Bedard,  formerly  sta- 
tioned at  Hunstville,  AL,  is  now  in  Wurtsburg, 
Germany.  .  .  .  Michael  Zack  and  Sherry 
Umberfield  in  Westerly,  RI,  on  May  27,  1984. 
She  graduated  from  Holyoke  College, 
Holyoke,  MA,  and  Northwestern  University 
and  is  assistant  vice  president  of  New  England 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  Zack,  who  also 
holds  a  degree  from  Northwestern,   is  chief 


executive  officer  of  Launder-Rite  Inc.,  Wake- 
field, MA. 

David  Brown,  who  is  with  the  Sturtevant 
division  of  Westinghouse  in  Hyde  Park,  MA, 
has  received  the  company's  highest  engineering 
award.  He  is  one  of  30  Westinghouse  scientists 
and  engineers  selected  to  receive  the  George 
Westinghouse  Award  for  outstanding  engineer- 
ing achievement.  He  was  cited  for  helping  to 
develop  a  fan  armoring  system  that  resists  ero- 
sion and  can  be  easily  replaced  in  the  field. 
With  the  firm  since  1973,  he  joined  the  Sturte- 
vant division  in  1979.  He  has  an  MSME  from 
Villanova. 

Robert  Levi  holds  the  post  of  energy  ser- 
vices engineer  at  Borg-Wamer  Air  Condition- 
ing Inc.,  San  Leandro,  CA.  He  is  also  pursuing 
his  MBA  part  time  at  California  State  Univer- 
sity in  Hay  ward. 

Kenneth  Lexier  was  recently  named  assist- 
ant superintendent  of  schools  in  the  Skowhe- 
gan,  ME,  school  district.  Previously,  he  was  a 
school  principal  in  the  Wells-Ogunquit  area, 
and  a  reading  specialist  in  Uxbridge  and  Attle- 
boro,  MA.  Also,  he  had  taught  math  and  read- 
ing in  the  Worcester,  MA,  secondary  schools 
and  had  been  an  instructor  in  the  WPI  and 
Assumption  graduate  schools.  Currently  work- 
ing for  his  MBA  at  the  University  of  Southern 
Maine,  he  holds  an  MA  from  Assumption  and  a 
doctorate  in  education  from  BU. 

Wallace  McKenzie,  Jr.  has  been  appointed 
communications  director  by  (MA)  State  Repre- 
sentative Steven  Angelo  for  his  1984  election 
campaign.  He  has  been  active  in  Saugus  politi- 
cal affairs  for  many  years,  is  a  member  of  the 
local  finance  committee  and  has  served  in  the 
Town  Meeting  and  on  various  town  advisory 
boards.  A  consulting  manager  for  Management 
Decisions  Systems,  Waltham,  Angelo  has  an 
MBA  from  RPI. 

Richard  Stockdale  is  a  senior  software  engi- 
neer at  Digital  Equipment  in  Littleton,  MA. 

John  Wolkonowicz  serves  as  manager  of 
competitive  strategy  for  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dear- 
born, MI.  He  is  a  graduate  of  MIT's  Sloan 
School  of  Management. 

George  Yesowitch  holds  the  post  of  manager 
of  special  projects  at  Liquid  Air  Corp.,  San 
Francisco. 


1974 


BORN:  to  Jim  and  Lexy  Chito  Ferraris,  '77, 
their  third  daughter.  Christina  Lynn,  in  May. 
Lexy  is  with  GE  in  Plainville,  CT,  and  Jim 
works  for  the  Trane  Co.  in  Avon. 

Recently.  Paul  Colby  received  his  PhD  in 
physics  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin  at 
Madison.  He  is  now  a  research  associate  in  the 
physics  department  at  Duke  University.  Dur- 
ham. NC. 

Linda  Fritz  has  been  appointed  an  assistant 
professor  of  physics  at  Franklin  and  Marshall 
College.  Previously,  she  was  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  physics  at  Northeastern  and  a  research 
assistant  at  Stanford  University,  where  she 
received  her  PhD  in  1981.  She  has  written  ten 
papers  on  her  research  findings  for  presentation 
at  professional  conferences  or  for  publication  in 
journals. 

Michael  Kosmo  recently  joined  Schofield 
Brothers,  Framingham.  MA,  as  a  project  man- 
ager. He  is  a  registered  professional  engineer 


and  has  eight  years'  experience  in  site  planning 
of  residential,  commercial  and  industrial  proj- 
ects. He  will  supervise  site  planning  projects 
and  coordinate  regulatory  agency  approvals. 
Formerly,  he  was  a  project  manager  with  Mer- 
rimack Engineering  Services  in  Andover.  He  is 
currently  enrolled  at  Babson  College,  pursuing 
his  MBA. 

John  Mathews  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  in  Connecticut. 
Since  joining  the  company  in  1980,  he  has  held 
several  posts,  including  that  of  project  engineer 
for  the  Mt.  Tom  Station  coal  conversion,  a 
148.000-kilowatt  NU  generating  station  in 
Holyoke.  MA. 

Hugh  Mc Adam  was  recently  named  vice 
president  in  charge  of  marketing  and  engineer- 
ing for  the  International  Paper  Box  Machine 
Co.  of  Nashua,  NH.  Previously,  he  was  chief 
engineer,  responsible  for  R&D  as  well  as  cus- 
tomer service  engineering.  Starting  with  the 
company  in  1974  as  a  project  engineer,  he  was 
later  promoted  to  chief  engineer.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  Babson. 

Richard  McGuire  is  with  Taylor,  Wiseman 
&  Taylor  in  Mt.  Laurel,  NJ. 

Charles  Nickerson  is  a  staff  engineer  for 
Haley  &  Aldrich  in  Portland.  ME. 

Richard  Piwko  has  been  named  Outstanding 
Young  Engineer  of  the  Power  Engineering 
Society  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  and  Elec- 
tronics Engineers  (IEEE).  As  application  engi- 
neer with  GE's  Electric  Utility  Systems  Engi- 
neering Department  in  Schenectady.  NY, 
Piwko  was  recognized  for  outstanding  technical 
contributions  in  the  research,  development  and 
practical  application  of  new  high-voltage 
direct-current  (HVDC)  transmission  system 
controls.  The  successful  application  of  HVDC 
will  reportedly  save  millions  of  dollars  for  the 
electric  utility  industry.  With  GE  since  1976. 
Piwko  is  responsible  for  studies  of  power  sys- 
tem performance  and  the  development  of 
improved  control  systems  for  GE's  generation 
and  transmission  products. 

Lt.  Linda  Woodward  serves  as  a  project 
manager  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Eglin 
AFB,  FL. 


1975 


Reunion 


September  28,  1985 


MARRIED:  Robert  Cummings  to  Martha 
Dungan  on  March  24,  1984,  in  Albuquerque, 
NM.  Martha  graduated  from  Albuquerque 
Career  Institute  and  is  employed  as  a  paralegal. 
Robert  serves  as  senior  operations  engineer  at 
the  Public  Service  Company  of  New  Mexico. 
.  .  .  Ronald  Simmons  and  Jane  Albright, 
recently.  Jane  is  a  nuclear  engineer  at  Puget 
Sound  Naval  Shipyard  in  Bremerton,  WA. 
Ronald  was  promoted  to  lead  senior  engineer 
with  the  Westinghouse-Bettis  atomic  power  lab- 
oratory resident  office  in  Bremerton  in  January. 

BORN:  to  Anne  and  Peter  Hatgelakas  a 
son.  Brian,  recently.  Peter  is  a  senior  explora- 
tion geologist  for  CNG  Development  Co., 
Pittsburgh. 

Cliff  Ashton  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
engineer  in  the  generation  mechanical  engineer 
department  of  Northeast  Utilities.  In  1979,  he 
joined  the  firm  as  an  associate  engineer  and  was 
advanced  to  engineer  the  following  year.  He 


NOVEMBER  1984       41 


has  an  MSME  from  RPI  and  is  currently  study- 
ing for  his  MBA  at  Rensselaer.  Active  in  pro- 
fessional engineer  associations,  he  belongs  to 
Pi  Tau  Sigma  and  Tau  Beta  Pi  engineering 
honor  societies. 

Michael  Aspinwall  has  been  named  director 
of  corporate  planning  at  Pitney  Bowes  Inc., 
Stamford,  CT.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1981,  serv- 
ing most  recently  as  manager  of  corporate  stra- 
tegic planning.  Previously,  he  was  associated 
with  FMC  Corporation,  Philadelphia.  He  has 
an  MBA  from  the  University  of  Chicago. 

Joseph  DelPonte  works  for  BDM  Corp.  in 
Huntsville.  AL. 

John  FitzPatrick,  who  received  his  MBA 
from  Rutgers  last  year,  is  currently  a  staff  engi- 
neer for  Exxon  Research  and  Engineering 
Company  in  Colombia,  South  America. 

David  Giddings  serves  as  a  senior  chemist  at 
Nalco  Chemical  Co.  in  Sugar  Land,  TX.  He 
has  an  MS  and  a  PhD  from  Brandeis. 

Robert  Hart  continues  as  a  software  engi- 
neer with  the  U.S.  Army  Electronics  R&D 
Command's  Tactical  Software  Support  Center. 
His  wife,  Linda,  is  a  graphic  designer  with 
Bell  Labs. 

Kenneth  Howell  is  a  collection  coordinator 
at  UConn  Health  Center,  Farmington,  CT. 

Gary  Kiontke  has  been  promoted  to  associ- 
ate actuary  at  Monarch  Life  Insurance  Com- 
pany, Springfield,  MA.  With  Monarch  since 
1977,  previously  he  was  assistant  actuary.  He 
attended  the  University  of  Connecticut  School 
of  Insurance.  His  professional  associations 
include  the  American  Academy  of  Actuaries 
and  fellowship  in  the  Society  of  Actuaries. 

James  Qualey  III  has  just  received  his  PhD 
from  Penn  State. 

Kazem  Sohraby,  who  holds  a  PhD  in  electri- 
cal engineering  from  Brooklyn  Polytechnic 
Institute,  is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at 
AT&T  Information  Systems  in  Somerset,  NJ. 

Wayne  Stratton  is  an  electrical  engineer 
with  the  Federal  Communications  Commission 
in  Washington,  DC. 

Earle  Vickery  III  is  a  design  engineer  with 
Micron  Technology  in  Boise,  ID. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Paul  Jacques  to  Jane  Sienkiewicz 
on  June  23,  1984,  in  Rochester,  NY.  Jane  has 
an  associate's  degree  in  health  sciences  from 
Monroe  Community  College,  Rochester.  Both 
she  and  Paul  are  employed  at  Kodak.  .  .  .  Dick 
Lessard  and  Jennifer  McOmber  on  June  2, 
1984.  Jenny  has  a  bachelor's  degree  in  social 
work  from  Virginia  Commonwealth  University 
and  works  for  the  Pennsylvania  Avenue  Devel- 
opment Corporation.  Dick  is  a  senior  associate 
with  IMR  Systems  Corp.,  Falls  Church, 
VA.  .  .  Wayne  Mandrus  and  Debra  Elmasian 
on  May  26,  1984,  in  Springfield,  MA.  She 
graduated  from  Monson  Academy  and  is 
regional  manager  of  Helen  Olevson  Inc.  in 
Providence,  RI.  He  is  a  computer  engineer  for 
Bedford  Control  in  Acton. 

Lt.  Col.  William  Baker  writes  that  he  is  cur- 
rently deputy  district  engineer  of  the  Japan  dis- 
trict of  the  U.S.  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  He 
is  responsible  for  executing  all  design  and  con- 
struction contracts  for  military  construction 
projects  on  mainland  Japan  and  Okinawa.  In 
Japan,  the  Corps  services  the  Army,  Navy,  Air 


Force  and  Coast  Guard.  In  December,  he  plans 
to  attend  the  Defense  Systems  Management 
College  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  VA. 

Doug  Brown,  who  just  received  his  MS  in 
technology  management  from  Polytechnic 
Institute  of  New  York,  is  a  consultant  with 
C.H.  Kline  &  Co.  Inc.  in  Fairfield.  NJ. 

Jeremy  Brown  has  been  elected  assistant 
vice  president  of  group  pension  product  devel- 
opment at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Com- 
pany, Worcester.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1976 
and  was  named  director  of  group  pension  prod- 
uct development  in  1981. 

Greg  Dubin  is  product  manager  for  Oxle 
Fuel  Co.,  Windsor.  CT. 

Daniel  Garfi  is  a  partner  in  D.D.J.  Associ- 
ates Inc.,  Monmouth  Junction,  NJ.  He  has  an 
MS  in  computer  science  from  Fairleigh  Dickin- 
son University. 

In  February,  K.  Alan  Kelley  joined  Federal 
Mogul  Corporation's  National  Grinding  Wheel 
Division,  North  Tonawanda,  NY,  where  he 
serves  as  a  product  development  engineer. 

Nancy  Sauberman,  PhD,  is  a  third-year 
medical  student  at  St.  George's  University 
School  of  Medicine,  Grenada,  West  Indies. 

Dr.  David  Sawyer  continues  as  a  senior 
research  engineer  with  Chevron  Research  Co., 
Richmond,  CA.  He  has  degrees  from  Clark  and 
the  University  of  Illinois. 

Robert  Schildt  is  now  a  liquor  store  assistant 
manager  for  the  Commonwealth  of  Pennsyl- 
vania. He  resides  in  Rock  Ledge. 

John  Smith,  who  received  his  MD  from 
SUNY-Stony  Brook  this  year  and  his  PhD  from 
Roswell  Park  Memorial  Institute  in  Buffalo. 
NY.  last  year,  is  currently  a  resident  in  internal 
medicine  at  Yale-New  Haven  Hospital,  in  New 
Haven,  CT. 

Paula  Stratouly  is  studying  for  her  MS  in 
finance  at  Texas  A&M  University. 

Steve  Tucker  man  has  been  accepted  as  a  full 
member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Certified 
Planners. 

Having  spent  the  past  two  years  as  a  postdoc- 
toral fellow  at  the  IBM  Research  Lab  in  San 
Jose,  CA.  Edward  Whittaker  is  now  assistant 
professor  of  physics  at  Stevens  Institute  of 
Technology  in  Hoboken,  NJ.  He  and  his  wife, 
Suzanne,  are  the  parents  of  a  two-year-old 
daughter,  Justine.  Edward  writes,  "Justine  is  a 
native  Californian." 


1977 


MARRIED:  Michael  Bloom  and  Linda 
Moskowitz  in  East  Rockaway,  NY,  on  July  31. 
1983.  Linda  has  a  master's  in  social  work  and 
public  administration  from  Syracuse.  Michael 
has  a  new  job  as  senior  software  engineer  with 
Prime  Computer  in  Framingham,  MA. 
.  .  Paul  Hajec  and  Brenda  Ayers  in  George- 
town, MA,  on  January  7,  1984.  Brenda  is  com- 
pleting her  degree  in  English  at  Salem  State 
College,  where  she  is  editor  of  Soundings  East, 
and  serves  as  a  substitute  teacher  in  George- 
town. Paul,  a  staff  engineer  with  the  consulting 
firm,  HMM  Associates.  Concord,  has  a  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Northeastern.  .  .  .  Matthew 
Ward  and  Meredyth  Wessman  on  September 
17,  1983.  He  is  with  the  robotics  systems 
research  department  at  AT&T  Bell  Labs. 
Holmdel.  NJ. 
Gary  Babin  has  been  named  assistant  super- 


intendent of  the  electric  division  for  the  Welles- 
ley  Department  of  Public  Works.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  the  University  of  New  Haven,  and 
for  six  years  he  was  employed  with  the  United 
Illuminating  Company  of  New  Haven,  CT.  His 
most  recent  job  was  with  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut's Office  of  Facilities  in  Storrs. 

Stann  Chonofsky  was  recently  promoted  to 
manager  at  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston,  an 
international  public  accounting  and  consulting 
firm.  As  a  manager,  he  will  continue  in  the 
consulting  practice  of  the  Boston  office,  spe- 
cializing in  service  to  distribution  and  public 
utility  organizations.  In  1977  he  joined  the 
company.  In  1982  he  received  his  M.Sc.  from 
Sussex  University,  Brighton,  England. 

James  Gado  recently  received  his  MS 
from  MIT. 

In  July,  Keith  Harrison  was  promoted  to 
area  engineer  with  the  Federal  Highway 
Administration  and  transferred  to  Trenton,  NJ. 

Mark  Knights  is  a  senior  physicist  with 
Sanders  Associates  in  Merrimack,  NH. 

Jerry  Melcher  has  a  new  post  as  a  senior 
applications  engineer  with  Acurex,  Autodata 
Division,  Mountain  View,  CA.  Acurex  manu- 
factures measurement  acquisition  and  control 
systems  and  rotating  machinery  instrumentation 
equipment.  He  writes,  "Just  purchased  a  home 
in  San  Carlos  Hills  on  the  beautiful  San 
Francisco  peninsula." 

Steven  Terrell-Perica  is  a  kavai  epidemio- 
logical specialist  with  the  Hawaii  Department 
of  Health  in  Lihue.  He  has  an  MA  in  physiol- 
ogy from  San  Francisco  State  University  and  a 
degree  in  epidemiology  from  the  University 
of  Hawaii. 

Brad  Prouty  is  a  senior  engineer  for  United 
Technologies  Diesel  Systems  in  Springfield, 
MA. 

Jeffrey  Wessels  serves  as  engineering  spe- 
cialist with  Northrop  Corp.,  Pico  Rivera,  CA. 

Gilbert  Wilson  holds  the  position  of  engi- 
neering section  manager  at  Varco-Pruden 
Buildings  in  St.  Joseph,  MO. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Daniel  Durbak  and  Debra 
Stopera  in  Schenectady,  NY,  on  June  2,  1984. 
Debra  graduated  from  Cohoes  High  School  and 
is  a  legal  secretary.  Durbak  works  for  General 
Electric.  .  .  .  Richard  Ruscito  to  Donna  Yates 
on  May  6,  1984,  in  Cranston,  RI.  Donna  grad- 
uated from  Rhode  Island  College.  Richard  is 
with  Olin  Corporation,  Tallahassee,  FL. 

Richard  Bielen  works  for  FirePro  Inc.  in 
Wellesley  Hills,  MA.  He  holds  his  MS  in  fire 
protection  engineering  from  WPI. 

Robert  Brosnahan  serves  as  a  senior  prod- 
uct development  engineer  at  Richards  Medical 
Co.,  Memphis,  TN. 

Currently,  Paul  Cody  holds  the  post  of  engi- 
neering supervisor  at  Westinghouse  in  Hillside, 
NJ. 

Ron  Fish  is  senior  manager  of  technical  ser- 
vices at  Teledyne  Systems  Co.,  Northridge, 
CA. 

Richard  Gottlieb  works  as  an  engineer- 
estimator  at  Perini  International  Corp., 
Framingham,  MA.  He  is  studying  for  his  MBA 
at  Babson  College. 

Thomas  Gudewicz  is  a  candidate  for  an  MD 
degree  at  the  University  of  Texas  in  Galveston. 


42       WPI  JOURNAL 


Man  in  Control 
At  Livermore 

"Basically,  I  run  a  control  system  which 
attempts  to  keep  bottles  from  leaking," 
says  Bob  Pancotti,  '78  CS. 

Pancotti,  who  also  holds  an  MSCS  from 
WPI,  is  not  talking  everyday  control  sys- 
tems and  bottles.  He's  talking  a  $17  mil- 
lion control  center  and  bottles  containing 
pure  energy. 

"We  try  to  keep  the  energy  inside  the 
bottles,"  he  adds,  "with  twin  375-ton 
magnets." 

Last  fall,  Fortune  magazine  ran  a  photo 
of  Bob  in  the  control  room  at  Lawrence 
Livermore  (CA)  National  Laboratory.  He 
serves  as  team  chief  for  the  man-machine 
interface,  Integrated  Control  and  Diagnos- 
tic Systems  Group,  for  the  Mirror  Fusion 
Test  Facility  (MFTF). 

"The  fusion  community  is  trying  to  get 
fuel  from  sea  water  for  energy  products," 
he  explains.  "One  gallon  of  sea  water 
contains  the  energy  equivalent  of  300  gal- 
lons of  gasoline.  It  could  solve  our  future 
energy  needs." 

Livermore 's  MFTF  is  the  largest  and 
most  expensive  ($226  million)  mirror 
fusion  research  project  in  the  world.  Bob 
is  involved  with  the  facility's  computer- 


Bob  Pancotti  in  control  room 

ized  control  and  monitoring  system 
(SCDS),  which  controls  more  than  10,000 
devices  and  monitors  more  than  25,000 
sensors. 

"SCDS  will  provide  physicists  with  a 
method  of  studying  machine  and  plasma 
behavior  by  acquiring  up  to  8  Mbytes 
[million]  of  diagnostic  information  every 
machine  cycle,  as  often  as  every  five  min- 
utes," Bob  says. 

The  control  room  houses  a  state-of-the- 
art  man-machine  interface  composed  of 
14  touch-sensitive  color  graphics  screens 


and  27  additional  color  graphics  screens 
for  monitoring. 

"With  touch  screens  an  operator  can 
change  current  or  voltage  rates  by  touch- 
ing the  screens  at  certain  points,"  Bob 
reports.  "Changes  to  the  control  system, 
as  required  in  an  experimental  environ- 
ment, can  be  made  quickly  by  writing  a 
little  software  for  new  buttons."  Comput- 
erized controls,  he  says,  are  the  wave  of 
the  future.  And  the  new  wave  may  well 
help  scientists  draw  limitless  energy  from 
the  seas. 


Capt.  Peter  Hunt,  USAF,  is  chief  of  launch 
vehicle  integration  for  the  space  division  at  Los 
Angeles  AFS,  CA.  He  has  an  MS  in  systems 
management  from  USC. 

John  Johnson  has  been  awarded  a  Santa  Bar- 
bara (CA)  Research  Center  faculty  develop- 
ment program  fellowship.  Johnson,  who  is 
working  for  his  doctorate  at  the  University  of 
California  at  Santa  Barbara,  was  selected 
because  of  his  academic  record  and  his  commit- 
ment to  becoming  a  university  professor  upon 
obtaining  his  degree.  Previously,  he  was  with 
Raytheon  in  Massachusetts. 

Gregory  Koss  has  joined  Analog  Devices 
Inc.  in  Norwood.  MA,  as  marketing  manager 
of  the  component  test  systems  division.  He  is 
responsible  for  product  planning,  applications 
engineering,  sales  support,  training  and  publi- 
cations. Previously,  he  was  product  line  man- 
ager at  Computer  Devices  in  Burlington. 

Joseph  Maslar  is  an  account  representative 
with  Burroughs  Corp.  in  East  Hartford,  CT. 

Laura  Mattick  holds  the  post  of  production 
manager  at  Foote  Mineral  Co.,  Exton.  PA.  She 
is  married  to  Michael  Poirier,  '79. 

Thomas  Medrek  recently  received  his  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Busi- 
ness Administration  at  Dartmouth  College. 

Lucian  Ograbisz  works  as  principal  electri- 
cal engineer  at  Sanders  Associates,  Nashua, 
NH. 

Peter  Rowden  works  for  Mass  Comp.  in 
Westford,  MA. 

Last  year,  Martin  Schulze  received  his  PhD 
in  nuclear  physics  from  MIT.  Currently,  he  is 
on  the  visiting  staff  at  Syracuse  University. 

Bettina  Tuttle  was  recently  promoted  to 
engineering   manager  at   Polyclad   Laminates 


Inc.  in  Franklin,  NH.  She  is  responsible  for  all 
process,  product  and  facilities  engineering  and 
will  also  help  oversee  the  computerization  of 
engineering  systems,  as  well  as  ensure  con- 
formance to  OSHA  and  EPA  standards  and  reg- 
ulations. Formerly  she  was  a  process  develop- 
ment engineer  for  GE  and  a  research  engineer 
at  Exxon.  She  joined  Polyclad's  Millbury  (MA) 
plant  as  a  process  engineer  in  1983.  In 
her  spare  time,  Tina  enjoys  athletics,  coaches 
sports  and  works  with  the  handicapped  and 
underprivileged. 

Karlis  Viceps  is  self-employed  in  Taos  Ski 
Valley,  NM,  where  he  does  solar-earth  shelter 
consulting  and  residential  design. 


1979 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Clarkin  to  Cynthia 
Welch  in  Mendon.  NY.  on  May  26.  1984. 
Cynthia  graduated  from  SUNY,  Albany,  and  is 
employed  at  RIT's  College  of  Business. 
Stephen,  who  received  his  MBA  in  marketing 
from  Cornell  in  May,  is  with  General  Mills  in 
Minneapolis.  .  .  .  Cynthia  Connor  and  Keith 
Tomko  in  Holyoke.  MA,  on  April  28,  1984. 
Cynthia  is  with  Westinghouse  in  West  Mifflin, 
PA.  Keith  graduated  from  Pennsylvania  State 
University  and  is  also  an  engineer  with  Wes- 
tinghouse. .  .  .  Gail  D'Amico  and  Mark  Mason 
on  May  12.  1984.  in  Middletown,  CT.  Gail  has 
an  MA  from  Mount  Sinai  School  of  Medicine 
in  New  York  City.  Mark  has  a  BA  from  Bow- 
doin  and  an  MS  from  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut. Both  are  in  their  final  year  at  Tufts 
University  School  of  Veterinary  Medicine  in 


Boston.  .  .  .  Judith  Dorkin  and  Craig  Pender- 
graft  on  May  19,  1984,  at  Hammersmith  Farm 
in  Newport,  RI.  Judith  is  pursuing  a  master's 
degree  at  the  University  of  New  Haven  and  has 
worked  for  Southern  New  England  Telephone 
Co.  for  the  past  five  years.  She  will  be  working 
for  Pacific  Telephone  as  an  assistant  manager  in 
San  Jose.  CA.  Craig  graduated  from  Humboldt 
State  University.  Areata,  CA.  He  is  an  accounts 

manager  for  Synercom  Technology  Inc 

Alan  Masse  and  Kathleen  Murphy  in  Paw- 
tucket.  RI.  on  May  19,  1984.  Kathleen  gradu- 
ated from  Middleboro  High  School.  Both  she 
and  Alan  work  for  the  Kemper  Group. 

BORN:  to  Cynthia  and  Glenn  Braunstein  a 
son,  Glenn  Jr.,  on  September  25,  1983.  Glenn, 
a  development  engineer  for  Goodyear  Tire  & 
Rubber  Co.,  is  on  a  temporary  six-month 
assignment  at  the  Goodyear  plant  in  Luxem- 
bourg. He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Akron  (OH). 

Paul  Blackmer  is  an  industrial  engineer  with 
GE  in  Utica.  NY. 

Michael  Blaney  works  for  Thermo  Electron 
Corp. 

Paul  Burgarella  is  now  a  project  engineer  at 
Teledyne  Philbrick,  Dedham,  MA. 

Stephen  Caputo  serves  as  sales  manager  for 
the  eastern  region  at  GE  capacitor  products 
department  in  Hudson  Falls,  NY. 

jane  Estey  of  Old  Saybrook  CT,  was 
recently  named  a  structural  engineer  at  Hoff- 
mann Architects.  A  professional  engineer,  she 
is  responsible  for  the  structural  design  and  engi- 
neering of  rehabilitation  projects.  She  is  a  mas- 
ter's candidate  at  UConn. 

Tom  Girotti  is  an  associate  engineer  in  the 
planning   department   at   Virginia   Electric   & 


NOVEMBER  1984       43 


Power  Co.,  Norfolk.  He  and  Deb  are  the  par- 
ents of  two  children  and  reside  in  Newport 
News,  VA. 

Capt.  Robert  Gregorio  serves  as  assistant 
division  transportation  officer  with  the  U.S. 
Army.  3rd  Armored  Division.  Frankfurt. 
Germany. 

Brian  Hallett  works  for  Westinghouse- 
Bettis.  West  Mifflin.  PA. 

Thom  Hammond  is  now  a  senior  sales  engi- 
neer for  Masoneilan  Marketing  International 
Company.  He  is  on  a  two-year  contract  in  Saudi 
Arabia  selling  to  refineries  and  Aramco. 

Arthur  Hughes  has  been  transferred  to 
Alice.  TX.  where  he  is  currently  open-hole 
operations  manager  for  Dresser  Industries.  He 
resides  in  Corpus  Christi. 

David  Johnson,  who  is  vice  president  of 
RWP  Johnson  Associates  Inc..  Bridgewater, 
CT,  is  studying  for  his  bachelor's  degree  in  the- 
ology at  The  Way  College  of  Emporia.  KS. 

Michael  Josbaecher  works  for  Digital 
Equipment  and  is  currently  traveling  in  Europe. 

James  Korte  is  an  aero-  and  bias-tire  com- 
pounder for  Goodyear  in  Danville.  VA. 

Claire  LaChance,  who  has  her  MS  in  sys- 
tems engineering  from  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania, continues  as  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  the  Mitre  Corp..  Bedford.  MA.  She 
is  married  to  Jeffrey  Toth. 

Mark  Lovington  works  for  Concord  Data 
Systems  in  Waltham,  MA.  where  he  is  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff. 

Carl  Nyerick  received  his  MS  in  medical 
physics  from  the  University  of  Pittsburgh 
in  April.  Currently,  he  is  a  medical  physicist 
with  Gastroenterology  Medical  Associates  in 
Pittsburgh. 

Peter  Pappas  serves  as  senior  software 
engineer  at  Stratus  Computer,  Natick,  MA. 

Michael  Poirier,  formerly  a  consultant  for 
Arthur  Andersen  in  Philadelphia,  was  recently 
named  a  manager  for  Sigma  Data  Systems,  a 
computer  consulting  firm  in  the  Wilmington, 
DE,  area. 

Steve  Rusckowski  has  received  his  MS  in 
management  from  MIT's  Sloan  School  of  Man- 
agement. His  degree  concentration  was  in  cor- 
porate strategy  and  marketing,  and  his  thesis 
was  entitled  "Financial  Reporting:  Liberal  or 
Conservative."  Prior  to  entering  MIT,  he  was 
production  manager  for  three  years  at  Procter  & 
Gamble  Mfg.  Co.,  Quincy,  MA.  Currently,  he 
is  a  financial-planning  manager  with  Hewlett- 
Packard's  Medical  Products  Group.  The 
Rusckowskis,  who  have  a  daughter,  reside  in 
Waltham. 

Sanford  Selman  is  manager  of  energy  utili- 
zation technology  at  Edison  Electric  Institute, 
Washington,  DC. 

Susan  Titherington  continues  as  a  software 
engineer  at  Compugraphic  in  Wilmington, 
MA. 

John  Tracy  is  involved  with  institutional 
equity  sales  at  Morgan  Stanley  &  Co.,  New 
York  City. 


1980 


Reunion 


September  28,  1985 


MARRIED:  Michael  Ramadei  to  Michele 
Celentano  on  June  1,  1984,  in  Hamden.  CT. 
She  holds  a  BA  in  historv  from  Yale  and  a  JD 


from  St.  John's  University.  Jamaica,  NY.  She 
was  admitted  to  the  Connecticut  Bar  last 
November.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Rivier  Col- 
lege, Nashua,  NH,  and  is  pursuing  an  MSEE  at 
the  Hartford  Graduate  Center.  He  is  with  Phil- 
lips Medical  Systems  in  Shelton.  .  .  .  Pamela 
Thomas  to  James  Cadorette,  last  fall.  She  is  a 
quality  engineer  at  American  Bentley  Labs  in 
Irvine.  CA. 

BORN:  to  Eileen  and  Art  O'Leary  a  second 
son,  Theodore  Richard,  on  May  23,  1984.  Art 
still  works  for  Artisan  Industries  in  Waltham, 
MA.  The  family  resides  in  a  new  house  in 
Leominster. 

James  Barker  is  a  project  engineer  at  Exxon 
Research  &  Development  Labs  in  Baton 
Rouge,  LA. 

Robert  Dreyfoos  has  been  named  plant  man- 
ager of  Photo  Electronics  Corp.,  West  Palm 
Beach,  FL.  His  father  is  president  of  the  firm, 
which  manufactures  electronic  equipment  used 
by  professional  color  photofinishing  laborato- 
ries. Robert  joined  the  firm  as  a  design  engineer 
in  1980.  He  headed  the  team  that  developed  the 
company's  newest  product,  PVAC.  the  profes- 
sional video  analyzing  computer,  which  along 
with  the  firm's  other  products  is  marketed  by 
Eastman  Kodak.  Photo  Electronics  is  the  parent 
company  of  the  ABC-TV  affiliate  in  West  Palm 
Beach,  Laser  Color  Laboratory  and  the  Sailfish 
Marina. 

Charles  Dyke  is  employed  as  a  senior  chemi- 
cal engineer  at  Texaco  Inc.  in  Glenham,  NY. 

Margaret  Fernald  works  for  Mitre  Corpora- 
tion in  Bedford,  MA. 

Arman  Garakani  works  for  IBM  as  an  asso- 
ciate engineer  in  Poughkeepsie,  NY. 

John  Hassey  is  a  senior  software  engineer 
for  Data  General,  Westboro,  MA.  He  and  his 
wife.  Donna,  have  two  children  and  reside 
in  Worcester. 

Arthur  Huggard  is  a  senior  manufacturing 
technology  engineer  for  Monsanto  Chemical  in 
Indian  Orchard,  MA. 

Leo  Kaabi  is  a  manufacturing  management 
trainee  forR.R.  Donnelley,  Torrance,  CA. 

Don  Maki  holds  the  post  of  plant  engineer  at 
Borden  Chemical,  Diball,  TX. 

Ronald  Marshall,  who  graduated  with  his 
master's  degree  from  the  University  of  Vermont 
in  May,  received  the  1984  Graduate  Award  in 
Statistics  on  Honors  Day  at  the  university. 

Jay  Meisner  is  a  graduate  student  at  Einstein 
College  of  Medicine  in  Bronx,  NY. 

Robert  Myers  works  as  a  contract  adminis- 
trator for  Parsons  Brinkerhoff  Construction 
Services  in  New  York  City. 

Mark  O'Neil  recently  completed  his  first 
year  at  Harvard  Business  School. 

Matthew  Powell  is  a  member  of  the  techni- 
cal staff  at  the  Mitre  Corporation  in  Bedford. 
MA. 

Chartsiri  Sophonpanich,  who  recently 
received  graduate  degrees  in  chemical  engi- 
neering and  management  from  MIT.  is  now  a 
management  associate  at  Citibank.  New  York 
City. 

Mark  Tino  is  now  a  manager  at  Arthur 
Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston.  He  has  been  with  the 
international  public  accounting  and  consulting 
firm  since  1980.  As  a  manager,  he  will  continue 
in  the  consulting  practice  of  the  Boston  office, 
specializing  in  service  to  distribution  and  manu- 
facturing organizations.  He  and  his  wife. 
Pamela,  reside  in  South  Easton,  MA. 

Geoffrey  Ward  works  as  a  thin-film  process 


engineer  at  Analog  Devices  Semiconductor, 
Wilmington,  MA. 

Lisa  Wylie  is  an  information  systems  staff 
member  at  AT&T  Technologies  in  North 
Andover,  MA. 

Daryoosh  Yaghmaei,  who  works  in  the  gold 
mining  industry,  has  been  named  a  laboratory 
analytical  chemist  at  Pilbara  Laboratory,  a  divi- 
sion of  Macdonald  Hamilton  &  Co..  Kalgoor- 
lie.  Australia. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Antonio  Cabral  to  Janet  Gigli  on 
April  28.  1984.  in  Manchester,  CT.  A  manager 
for  Rite-Aid  Corporation,  Janet  graduated  from 
Robert  Morris  College.  Pittsburgh,  PA.  Cabral 
is  a  materials  engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft. East  Hartford,  CT.  .  .  .  Robert  Daley 
and  Susanne  Hoffman  on  July  21.  1984.  in 
Milford,  CT.  Susanne,  an  associate  with  Brian 
Alden  Inc.,  graduated  from  Salve  Regina  Col- 
lege, Newport,  RI.  Robert  is  vice  president  of 
Savery  Tool  Sales  Co.,  West  Hartford.  .  .  . 
Paul  Filosa  and  Donna  Rodeschin  in  Glen  Bur- 
nie,  MD,  on  May  5,  1984.  Donna  has  a  BS 
degree  in  mathematics  from  the  College  of 
Charleston,  SC.  She  and  Paul  are  both 
employed  as  mathematicians  for  the  Depart- 
ment of  Defense  in  Washington,  DC. 

MARRIED:  James  Martin  and  Holly 
Graham  in  Great  Barrington,  MA,  on  July  7, 
1984.  Holly,  a  special-education  teacher  in  the 
Upland  School  District,  graduated  from 
Wheelock  College.  Martin  is  a  field  sales  engi- 
neer with  Automatic  Switch  Co.  .  .  .  John 
Nykyforchyn  and  Janice  Millard,  '83,  on 
April  7.  1984.  in  Cohasset.  MA.  Janice  is 
employed  by  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat. 
Groton.  CT,  and  John  serves  as  a  resident  man- 
ufacturing engineer  at  United  Nuclear.  .  .  . 
Michael  Thompson  and  Ann-Marie  Murray  in 
Worcester  on  April  28,  1984.  Ann-Marie,  a 
registered  nurse,  graduated  from  Worcester 
City  Hospital  School  of  Nursing  and  Worcester 
State  College.  Michael  is  a  sales  engineer  for 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corporation  in  Fayette- 
ville,  NC. 

Wayne  Barry  of  Paxton,  MA.  who  was  a 
volunteer  with  Big  Brothers/Big  Sisters  of  Wor- 
cester County  as  a  student  at  WPI,  has  been  a 
Big  Brother  to  Brian  Maddox  since  1977.  Last 
year,  Brian  was  joined  by  Tavie  Johnson. 
Wayne  was  recently  married,  but  says  that  his 
wife  is  very  supportive  of  his  Big  Brother  activ- 
ities. Professionally.  Wayne  works  in  residen- 
tial and  commercial  real  estate  management  and 
is  assistant  varsity  coach  and  coach  of  the  junior 
varsity  basketball  team  at  Doherty  High  School 
in  Worcester. 

Joe  Bellas  works  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Gulf 
Oil.  East  Providence,  RI. 

Robert  Breault  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
industrial  engineer  at  Chesebrough-Pond's  Inc., 
Clinton,  CT. 

Jeanne  Coughlin  works  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer at  IBM  in  Paramus,  NJ. 

Joseph  Des  Jardins  works  for  Motorola  in 
Ft.  Lauderdale,  FL. 

Gary  DiFederico  serves  as  a  project  engi- 
neer at  Hamilton  Standard.  Windsor  Locks. 
CT. 

Dan  Doherty  Jr.  is  currently  a  senior  soft- 
ware engineer  at  DEC  in  Nashua,  NH. 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


Susan  Hoflma  has  joined  the  Peace  Corps 
and  is  serving  in  Tanzania. 

David  LaPotin  is  currently  a  student  at 
Carnegie-Mellon  in  Pittsburgh. 

Michael  Przybyla  is  employed  as  an  assist- 
ant planner  at  Pioneer  Valley  Planning  Com- 
mission. West  Springfield.  MA. 

Art  Shorrock  is  a  quality  assurance  engineer 
with  Hitchiner  Mfg.  in  Milford,  NH. 

Gary  Winer  has  received  his  JD  degree,  cum 
laude,  from  New  England  School  of  Law.  As  a 
law  student,  he  used  his  technical  background 
while  working  as  a  law  clerk  for  the  Boston 
firm  of  Weingarten,  Schurgin,  Gagnebin,  and 
Hayes,  which  specializes  in  patent,  copyright 
and  trademark  law.  He  also  served  as  president 
of  the  New  England  School  of  Law  Interna- 
tional Law  Society,  and  he  was  a  member  of  the 
school's  law  team  that  competed  in  the  Jessup 
International  Moot  Court  Competition. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Gary  Baier  and  Jennifer  Krusen 
in  Harvard.  MA.  on  June  16,  1984.  Jennifer 
graduated  from  Simmons  College  and  is  now  a 
graduate  student  at  UMass.  Gary,  who  works  at 
GE  in  Pittsfield,  is  enrolled  in  a  master's  pro- 
gram at  RPI,  Troy,  NY.  .  .  .  David  Batbouta  to 
Ellen  Dusseault,  '83,  in  Worcester  on  May  19, 
1984.  Ellen  serves  as  a  software  engineer  for 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Nashua,  NH.  David 
is  with  Killsman  Instrument  Co..  Merrimack. 
.  .  .  Frank  Bilotta,  Jr.  and  Joan  Spierdowis  on 
May  5.  1984,  in  Norwood,  MA.  Joan  gradu- 
ated from  UMass,  Amherst,  and  is  employed  at 
RentacolorCorp.  Frank  works  at  Data  General. 
.  .  .  Martin  Riccitelli  and  Karen  Tatro  in  West- 
field,  MA.  on  June  30,  1984.  Karen  received 
her  BSME  from  Western  New  England  College 
and  is  an  applications  engineer  for  Prime  Com- 
puter, Windsor,  CT.  Martin  is  with  United 
Technologies  Diesel  Systems. 

MARRIED:  Barry  Rosen  and  Deirdre 
Sullivan  in  Westwood,  MA,  on  June  2,  1984. 
She  is  a  programmer  for  GE  in  Lynn.  Barry 
serves  as  a  quality  control  engineer  for  GCA  in 
Andover.  .  .  .  Elizabeth  Sydney  and  James 
Krieger,  '85,  at  Higgins  House,  Worcester,  on 
May  20,  1984.  She  is  an  industrial  engineer 
with  New  England  Electric  in  Westboro,  MA, 
and  is  currently  pursuing  her  MBA.  He  is 
majoring  in  computer  science.  .  .  .  James  Tata 
to  Patricia  Valone  in  Warren,  PA.  Patricia  grad- 
uated from  Allegheny  College,  Meadville,  PA. 
and  received  her  master's  degree  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Rochester.  She  is  employed  by  the 
University  of  Rochester  Medical  Center  in  the 
department  of  radiation  biology  and  biophysics. 
Tata,  who  received  his  master's  degree  from  the 
university  this  year,  is  currently  a  candidate  for 
a  PhD  in  chemistry. 

Robert  Arbogast,  a  senior  majoring  in 
Greek  at  Calvin  College.  Grand  Rapids,  MI, 
has  been  awarded  the  college's  Board  of  Trust- 
ees Scholarship  for  1984-85.  He  intends  to 
enter  Calvin  Seminary  and  become  a  minister 
of  the  Christian  Reformed  Church.  Currently, 
he  tutors  Greek  in  the  Calvin  classics  depart- 
ment. He  and  his  wife,  Janet,  have  a  daughter. 
Kathryn. 

Frederick  Berbig  holds  the  position  of  proj- 
ect engineer  for  Los  Angeles  County  Sanitation 
Districts,  Whittier,  CA. 


I 

Modeling  in  Milan 

Setting  the  Pace 
In  Fashion 

Big-time  male  modeling.  Glamorous. 
Right?  Easy.  Right?  What  a  way  to  make 
a  living! 

Steve  Pace,  '78,  laughs  as  he  discusses 
people's  reactions  to  his  part-time  profes- 
sion. "It  certainly  sounds  glamorous  to  be 


sent  off  to  Paris  and  Milan  for  months  at  a 
time  to  model  high  fashion,"  he  admits.  "I 
always  enjoy  the  experience,  and  occa- 
sionally I  get  to  keep  the  clothes.  But, 
easy?  Sometimes,  I  work  from  6  in  the 
morning  until  9  o'clock  at  night!" 

Steve,  who  regularly  is  a  commercial 
real  estate  broker  for  Ashwill  Schneider  in 
San  Jose,  CA,  tries  to  play  down  the 
glamorous  aspects  of  modeling.  But  when 
your  clients  are  such  world-famous  names 
as  Missoni,  Fiorucci,  Puma,  Panchetti, 
Men's  Vogue  Italian  and  Playboy  Italian, 
the  glitter  can't  help  but  come  through  the 
seams. 

"I  like  to  model  on  location,"  Steve 
says.  "It's  more  enjoyable  than  doing  rou- 
tine studio  assignments.  It  gives  me  a 
chance  to  travel  to  new  places  and  meet 
interesting  people.  For  example,  while  in 
Europe  recently,  I  worked  for  the  major 
magazines,  designers'  fashion  shows  and 
for  TV  commercials." 

Back  in  the  U.S.,  his  modeling  clients, 
mostly  in  the  San  Francisco  area,  are 
Macy's,  Hastings,  Emporium  Capwells, 
Neiman-Marcus  and  J.C.  Penney. 
Recently,  he  modeled  for  a  Paul  Masson 
winery  brochure. 

As  far  as  the  future  goes,  Steve  plans  to 
continue  dealing  with  commercial-indus- 
trial real  estate  (RE)  in  the  Silicon  Valley 
("I  fell  into  RE  four  years  ago."),  and  to 
take  acting  lessons  with  an  eye  toward 
doing  more  TV  commercials.  Eventually, 
he  might  even  go  into  acting. 

"Meanwhile,  I'll  continue  to  model 
locally,"  he  says.  "But  if  I  get  another 
opportunity  to  model  in  Europe,  you  can 
be  sure  I'll  take  it!" 


Peter  Booth  is  an  automation  engineer  at 
Northrop  Corporation  in  Norwood,  MA. 

John  Browning  is  manager  of  Anaconda- 
Kaye  Sports  in  Kingston,  NY. 

Peter  Fanning  is  a  mechanical  engineer  for 
the  Department  of  the  Navy  in  Port  Hueneme, 
CA. 

Matthew  Flynn  is  a  medicinal  chemist  with 
Pfizer  in  Groton,  CT. 

Mohammad  Golnaraghi,  a  PhD  student  at 
Cornell,  is  working  as  a  research  assistant  in  the 
theoretical  and  applied  mechanics  department. 

Edmund  Henry  is  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Karlin  Jessen  serves  as  division  chief  for  the 
U.S.  Air  Force  at  Hanscom  AFB,  MA. 

Michael  Lawrence  is  an  engineer  intern  for 
the  Connecticut  Department  of  Transportation 
in  New  Milford. 

Michael  Maloney  works  as  a  systems 
engineer  at  Arinc  Research  Corp.,  North 
Billcrica,  MA. 

Thomas  Marnik  has  been  appointed  to  the 
post  of  building  commissioner  in  Fairhaven, 
MA.  He  holds  a  construction  supervisor's 
license  and  is  a  town  meeting  member  and  a 
call  fireman. 

Mark  Morawiec  has  completed  his  first  year 
in  the   MBA  program  at   Duke   University, 


Durham,  NC. 

Martin  Morra  is  a  research  assistant  at  MIT. 

Thomas  Neale  now  works  as  a  senior  assem- 
bly engineer  with  Zytrex  Corporation  in 
Sunnyvale,  CA. 

Lynne  Ondek  is  in  the  advanced  engineering 
program  at  Honeywell  Information  Systems, 
Billerica.  MA. 

Richard  Petrucci  works  as  a  pipe  support 
designer  for  Stone  &  Webster  (Boston)  in 
Waterford,  CT. 

Wilson  Powell  is  an  associate  software  engi- 
neer for  Raytheon  in  Bedford,  MA. 

John  Ravener  is  with  Electric  Boat.  Groton, 
CT. 


1983 


MARRIED:  Michael  Brown  and  Elizabeth 
Calabro  on  June  9,  1984,  in  Waterbury,  CT. 
Elizabeth  graduated  with  a  nursing  degree  from 
St.  Joseph  College  in  West  Hartford  and  was 
formerly  an  RN  at  Waterbury  Hospital  Health 
Center.  Michael,  an  electrical  engineer  with 
Hughes  Aircraft,  Canoga  Park,  CA,  is  studying 
for  his  master's  degree  at  USC.  .  .  .  Keith 
Comeford   and    Lorrie    Hermanson,    '84, 


NOVEMBER  1984       45 


recently  in  Clinton,  CT.  Lonrie  is  doing  gradu 
ate  work  at  Brandeis  University.  Keith  is  a  soft- 
ware engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Nashua.  NH.  .  .  .  David  Dumas  to  Penny  Kra- 
mer on  June  24,  1984,  in  North  Kingstown,  RI. 
Penny,  a  graduate  of  Becker,  is  an  interior 
designer  with  Royal  Business  Group,  Worces- 
ter. MA.  David  works  for  Data  General  in 
Southboro.  .  .  .  Michael  J.  Gagnon  and  Linda 
Corrado  on  May  12,  1984,  in  Cumberland,  RI. 
Linda,  a  certified  occupational  therapist  assist- 
ant, graduated  from  Becker.  Michael  is  an 
assistant  sales  engineer  with  Westinghouse  in 
Jericho,  NY.  .  .  .  Richard  Scott  to  Judith  Stiles 
in  Falmouth,  ME,  on  June  30,  1984.  She  grad- 
uated from  Becker.  He  works  for  UNC-Naval 
Products  Division,  Uncasville,  CT. 

Jane  Norris  Booth  is  a  materials  engineer  at 
the  Army  Materiels  and  Mechanics  Research 
Center  in  Watertown,  MA. 

Dennis  Boyd  serves  as  a  technical  service 
engineer  at  National  Starch  &  Chemical, 
Bridge  water,  NJ. 

Guy  Busa  is  now  a  graduate  student  at  MIT. 

Catherine  Coyne  works  as  a  software  engi- 
neer at  Wang  Laboratories  in  Lowell,  MA. 

David  Crawford  holds  the  post  of  manpower 
management  officer  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at 
the  Air  Force  Management  Engineering 
Agency,  Randolph  AFB,  TX. 

Gerard  Grippo  works  as  a  material  supervi- 
sor at  General  Dynamics  in  Quincy,  MA. 

Joseph  Iantosca  Jr.  is  a  project  coordinator 
for  Belair  Construction  in  Weymouth,  MA. 

Brian  Klaubert  works  for  Kimberly-Clark 
Corp.,  New  Milford,  CT. 

Kevin  Manning  is  currently  in  Birmingham, 
England,  serving  as  a  consultant  for  the 
machinery  division  of  E.M.  Hart  Corp. 

David  McFarlin  serves  as  inventory  coordi- 
nator at  Nypro  Inc.,  Clinton,  MA. 

Cheryl  O'Neal  is  with  DEC  in  Maynard, 
MA. 

Joel  Patenaude,  who  is  with  the  Peace  Corps 
in  Kenya,  is  affiliated  with  the  International 
Development  Regional  Office  of  Housing  and 
Urban  Development. 

Mark  Pease  now  works  with  a  transmitter 
design  group  in  the  systems  development  divi- 
sion at  the  Westinghouse  Defense  and  Elec- 
tronic Center  in  Baltimore,  MD. 

John  Pepper  works  as  associate  test  engineer 
at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Eric  Peterson  is  with  Raytheon  Co.  in 
Portsmouth,  RI. 

James  Petropulos  is  a  civil  engineer  for 
Allan  H.  Swanson  Inc.,  Nashua,  NH. 

Michael  Russell  works  for  Superior  Electric 
in  Bristol,  CT. 

Douglas  Saunders  is  a  marketing  manager 
with  Automated  Assemblies  Corp.,  Clinton, 
MA. 

Peter  Simeone  is  with  the  aircraft  engine 
group  at  GE  in  Lynn,  MA. 

Charles  Smith  works  for  Production  Ser- 
vices Corp.,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Stephen  Smith  is  a  components  engineer  for 
GE  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

No  longer  with  ITT,  Lynn  St.  Germain  is 
now  a  design  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard, 
Windsor  Locks,  CT. 

Ronald  Thompson,  Jr.  was  recently  pro- 
moted from  commercial  loan  analyst  to  cash 
management  consultant  at  the  United  Bank  of 
Denver,  Denver,  CO. 

Cynthia  Nault  Torrey  is  now  a  software 


engineer  for  the  Foxboro  (MA)  Company. 

Bernadette  Young  is  an  associate  engineer  at 
New  England  Electric,  Westboro,  MA. 

Ralph  Rosen  has  received  his  MBA  from 
Babson  College. 

Douglas  Schelleng  is  a  planner  for  Rockland 
County  Planning  Board  in  New  York  City. 

Garrett  Thompson  is  currently  a  senior 
engineer  for  Harris-Government  Satellite  Com- 
munications Division. 

John  Tirrell  is  employed  as  a  design  engi- 
neer by  Stone  &  Webster  in  Shippingport,  PA. 

Scott  Traynor  works  for  the  Naval  Under- 
water Systems  Center  in  New  London,  CT. 

Robert  Valentine  continues  as  a  component 
engineer  at  Data  General  in  Westboro,  MA. 

Cynthia  Widmer  is  an  electronic  engineer  II 
at  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua,  NH. 

Peter  Young  recently  graduated  from  the 
Northern  Essex  Community  College  Evening 
Nursing  Program  in  Haverhill,  MA.  One  of  his 
classmates  was  his  mother,  Ruth.  They  are 
thought  to  be  the  first  mother  and  son  team 
anywhere  to  complete  a  four-year  nursing  pro- 
gram together. 


1984 


MARRIED:  Kimberly  Cote  and  George 
Bursaw  III  on  July  14,  1984.  in  Slatersville.  RI. 
Kimberly  is  with  the  Raytheon  Co.,  Way  land, 
MA.  George,  a  graduate  of  Ponaganset  High 
School  and  a  staff  sergeant  in  the  Rhode  Island 
Air  National  Guard,  works  for  Alumiline 
Corp.,  Lincoln.  .  .  .  Kenneth  Messier  and 
Robin  Tucker  in  Spencer,  MA,  on  May  26, 
1984.  Robin  graduated  from  Quabbin  Regional 
High  School.  Kenneth  works  for  Howmedica  in 
Groton,  CT. 

William  Abbott  has  joined  General  Electric. 

Daniel  Adner  is  now  with  General  Spring  & 
Wire  Co. 

Susan  Ames  works  for  Du  Pont. 

David  Anderson  is  on  the  staff  at  Teradyne 
Inc. 

William  Andrews  has  been  named  a  mem- 
ber of  the  staff  at  NBI. 

Douglas  Anneser  works  for  Unitrode  Inte- 
grated Circuit  Corp. 

Arpi  Aprahamian  has  been  employed  by  the 
Gillette  Co. 

Michael  Atamian  is  a  graduate  student  in 
chemistry  at  the  University  of  California. 

Dean  Athans  works  for  GE. 

Desiree  Awiszio  works  for  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation. 

David  Backer  is  on  the  staff  at  Sikorsky 
Aircraft. 

Carol  Bagdis  has  joined  Polaroid  Corpora- 
tion. 

Craig  Baptiste  is  with  Du  Pont. 

Terry  Barber  has  joined  Pfizer  Inc- 
Howmedica. 

David  Barlow  is  with  the  U.S.  Army. 

Kevin  Barrett  works  for  Data  General. 

James  Barry  has  joined  the  Foxboro 
Company. 

Steven  Baturin  is  now  with  IBM. 

David  Beane  has  joined  the  Turner 
Corporation. 

Thomas  Beaulieu  is  with  Data  General. 

Rudy  Beaupre  works  for  Combustion 
Engineering. 

David    Beck    has   accepted    a    post    with 


Du  Pont. 

Maria  Biascoechea  Fernandez  is  currently 
with  Nypro  Co.  in  Puerto  Rico. 

John  Bibinski  works  for  the  Gillette  Co. 

Sam  Bigelow  has  accepted  a  post  with  IBM. 

Earle  Blatchford  is  with  Alan  H.  Swanson 
Inc. 

James  Bock  has  joined  Data  General. 

Michael  Bonder  is  on  the  staff  of  Stratus 
Computer. 

Denise  Bolduc  works  for  DEC. 

David  Boudreau  is  with  the  Raytheon 
Company. 

Patrick  Brady  is  employed  by  General 
Electric. 

Robert  Bragdon  has  joined  the  staff  at 
Sanders  Associates. 

Jack  Bravo  is  now  with  Data  General. 

Patricia  Bray  works  for  IBM. 

John  Breen  works  for  General  Electric. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Guy  Nichols,  '56,  retired  as  chairman  of  the 
board,  president  and  chief  executive  of  New 
England  Electric  Systems  on  July  1 .  He  had 
been  with  the  company  38  years,  14  as  presi- 
dent. He  will  continue  as  director.  Under 
Nichols's  leadership  (diversified  holdings  in 
coal,  oil,  hydropower  and  nuclear  areas),  the 
utility  has  lowered  its  prices  to  consumers  and 
raised  its  return  on  equity.  In  1983,  he  was 
named  New  Englander  of  the  Year  by  the 
New  England  Council,  a  1,200-member 
regional  business  association.  In  1982,  he 
received  the  Founders  Award  from  the 
Energy  Technology  Conference,  an  annual 
forum  for  energy  professionals.  In  1980,  he 
was  elected  to  a  three-year  term  on  the  Coal 
Industry  Advisory  Board,  sponsored  by  the 
Paris-based  International  Energy  Agency.  He 
was  one  of  eight  U.S.  representatives  of 
major  coal-related  industries  to  serve  on  the 
board.  Recently,  he  received  an  honorary 
doctoral  degree  during  commencement  exer- 
cises at  Nichols  College  in  Dudley,  MA.  He 
is  a  former  Sloan  Fellow  from  MIT,  where  he 
received  his  MBA. 

Alden  Jacobson,  '66,  coordinator  of  pro- 
grams for  the  Vermont  Agency  of  Develop- 
ment of  Community  Affairs  since  1980, 
recently  received  awards  from  the  state  and 
from  WPI  for  his  contributions  to  machining 
and  electronic  training  for  Springfield  area 
industries.  Vermont  Lt.  Gov.  Peter  Smith  and 
Bill  Julian,  '49,  past  president  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  participated  in  the  presentation, 
which  took  place  during  ceremonies  held  for 
graduates  of  the  Advanced  Vermont  Electron- 
ics Training  Program.  .  .  .  Lee  Peterson,  '75, 
has  been  advanced  to  vice  president  of  opera- 
tions at  the  BTR  Valve  Group's  member  com- 
pany, the  Worcester  Controls  Corporation, 
West  Boylston,  MA.  He  is  in  charge  of  manu- 
facturing, data  processing  and  office  services 
for  company  facilities  in  West  Boylston, 
Olive  Branch,  MS,  and  Liberty,  NC.  Affili- 
ated with  the  firm  for  22  years,  he  has  held  a 
variety  of  posts,  most  recently  that  of  vice 
president  of  finance  and  controller.  .  .  .  Wil- 
liam Poist,  '77,  has  been  named  president 
and  chief  operating  officer  of  Commonwealth 


46       WPI  JOURNAL 


Gas  Co.,  Southboro,  MA.  He  joined  the  com- 
pany in  1971,  and  was  promoted  to  executive 
vice  president  in  1978.  He  has  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  business  and  industrial  management 
from  Johns  Hopkins  University  and  an  MBA 
in  marketing  from  BU.  Currently  serving  in 
various  capacities  with  several  national  gas 
industry  associations,  he  is  vice  chairman  of 


the  New  England  Gas  Association.  A  director 
of  the  Shawmut  Community  Bank,  he  also  is 
chairman  of  the  local  Boy  Scout  Council,  as 
well  as  a  trustee  of  both  Central  New  England 
College  and  the  Regional  Family  YMCA.  In 
1983,  he  received  the  Albert  J.  Schwieger 
Award  from  WPI's  School  of  Industrial 
Management. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


Eugene  H.  Powers,  '12,  died  May  25,  1984, 
in  Worcester  Memorial  Hospital.  He  was  93 
and  a  native  of  Worcester. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  civil  engineer, 
he  worked  as  a  salesman  for  Adams  &  Powers 
Co.,  then  was  a  science  teacher  in  Worcester 
high  schools  from  1915  to  1922.  From  1922  to 
1931,  he  was  vice  president  and  assistant  trea- 
surer of  Adams  &  Powers  Co.  He  retired  in 
1960  after  serving  as  a  science  and  math  teacher 
in  Worcester  high  schools. 

Active  with  the  Masons,  he  was  a  former 
master  of  his  local  lodge,  and  he  belonged  to 
the  Royal  Arch  chapter  and  the  Worcester 
County  Commandery,  Knights  Templar.  He 
belonged  to  the  Odd  Fellows,  was  a  founder  of 
the  Worcester  North  Chester  Club  and  was 
a  70-year  member  and  past  president  of  the 
local  chapter  of  the  Sons  of  the  American 
Revolution. 

A  member  of  the  National  Retired  Teachers 
Association  and  the  Retired  State,  County  and 
Municipal  Employees  of  Massachusetts,  he 
also  belonged  to  the  Tech  Old-Timers,  the  Wor- 
cester Historical  Society  and  the  Friends  of  Old 
Sturbridge  Village.  He  was  the  father  of  Foster 
C.  Powers,  '37. 

Clarence  E.  Fay,  '17,  of  Lake  Worth,  FL, 
passed  away  of  congenital  heart  failure  on  May 
15,  1984.  He  was  born  April  7,  1894,  in 
Framingham,  MA,  and  graduated  with  a 
BSEE. 

He  retired  in  1959,  after  being  employed  with 
Bell  Telephone  Co.  of  Pennsylvania  since 
1919.  During  his  career  with  the  firm,  he  was 
district  engineer,  district  plant  superintendent 
and  division  plant  superintendent. 

A  life  member  of  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of 
America,  he  was  also  a  member  of  the  Presby- 
terian Church  (elder)  and  the  Masons.  He  was  a 
former  president  of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Otho  M.  Fish,  '17,  died  at  his  home  in  Cha- 
tham, NJ,  on  April  23,  1984,  at  the  age  of  92. 
He  was  born  in  Fitchburg,  MA,  and  was  an 
electrical  engineering  student  at  WPI. 

Before  retiring  in  1958,  Mr.  Fish  was  an 
engineer  for  20  years  with  Jackson  &  Moreland 
Engineers,  an  electrical  transmission  firm  in 
Boston.  He  belonged  to  the  Masons  and  to  the 
High  Nooners  Club.  He  was  a  graduate  of  Pratt 
Institute,  New  York  City. 

Carl  E.  Skroder,  '21,  a  professor  emeritus  at 
the  University  of  Illinois,  died  at  his  home  in 


Urbana,  IL,  on  April  12,  1984,  at  the  age  of  85. 
He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  April  29,  1898, 
and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI. 

Prof.  Skroder,  who  was  a  professor  of  electri- 
cal engineering  at  the  University  of  Illinois  for 
41  years,  retired  in  1966  as  professor  emeritus. 
He  had  an  MS  from  the  university  and  had  pre- 
viously been  employed  by  AT&T. 

A  member  of  the  American  Association  of 
University  Professors,  he  also  belonged  to  the 
American  Society  for  Engineering  Education 
and  Rotary  International.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Illinois.  His  other 
memberships  included  SAE,  Eta  Kappa  Nu  and 
Tau  Beta  Pi.  He  attended  the  Methodist 
Church. 

John  D.  Austin,  '22,  of  Seneca,  NY,  passed 
away  on  May  24,  1984. 

From  1919  until  his  retirement  in  1966,  the 
Kendall  native  owned  and  operated  Austin 
Farms  in  Hall.  In  1956,  he  and  his  son  were  the 
New  York  State  corn  production  champions. 

Mr.  Austin  belonged  to  the  Ontario  County 
Farm  Extension  Service  and  the  Farm  Bureau. 
He  was  a  charter  member  of  the  Grange  League 
Federation,  which  eventually  became  Agway. 
He  belonged  to  the  United  Church  of  Christ, 
the  American  Legion,  the  Masons  and  the  local 
fire  company.  He  was  an  avid  hunter  and 
sportsman.  During  World  War  I,  he  served  in 
the  U.S.  Army. 

Robert  M.  Wilder,  '22,  a  leading  Southern 
California  structural  engineer,  died  April  2, 
1984.  in  Eureka,  CA.  He  was  83  and  a  native 
ofAthol.  MA. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  with  his  BSCE, 
he  was  employed  in  Peru,  Panama,  the  Baha- 
mas, the  West  Indies,  Cuba  and  Florida  in  con- 
struction and  design.  From  1934  to  1954,  he 
was  affiliated  with  Paul  E.  Jeffers,  a  structural 
engineer  in  Los  Angeles.  From  1954  to  1964, 
he  was  a  structural  engineer  in  private  practice. 

Mr.  Wilder  was  a  former  executive  of  the 
structural  engineers  associations  of  California 
and  Southern  California.  An  early  proponent  of 
earthquake-proof  building  methods,  he 
designed  many  California  structures,  including 
the  racing  plant  for  the  Los  Angeles  Turf  Club 
at  Santa  Anita  Park  in  Arcadia,  and  the  largest 
communications  complex  in  the  world,  the  Los 
Angeles  Telephone  Building  and  microwave 
tower. 

Other  earlier  affiliations  were  with  the  Los 
Angeles  Chamber  of  Commerce,  American 


Arbitration  Association  and  the  Mineralogical 
Society  of  Southern  California,  which  he  had 
served  as  treasurer.  He  belonged  to  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha. 

Russell  L.  Norton,  '23,  of  West  Falmouth, 
MA,  passed  away  on  April  7,  1983.  He  was  a 
native  of  Willimantic,  CT,  attended  Brown 
University,  and  graduated  from  Boston 
University. 

For  40  years,  he  worked  for  the  New  England 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  After  retirement, 
he  took  enamel-on-copper  art  classes.  He 
belonged  to  SAE  and  Skull. 

William  L.  Reynolds,  '24,  died  April  23, 
1984.  in  Portland,  ME,  after  a  long  illness.  He 
was  81  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Northampton,  MA.  For  many 
years,  he  was  a  superintendent  for  Lovell  Bus 
Lines,  Maynard,  MA.  He  retired  in  1978  after 
25  years  with  Hemingway  Transportation  Co. 
He  belonged  to  the  Odd  Fellows. 

Charles  M.  Moran,  '26,  a  co-owner  of  the 
National  Contracting  Company,  Fall  River, 
MA,  died  May  9,  1984,  at  the  Clifton  Geriatric 
Center,  Somerset,  MA.  He  was  born  in  Fall 
River  on  Sept.  13,  1905. 

He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer  from 
WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  with  Crompton 
&  Knowles,  Petroleum  Reclamation  Co.  and 
Swiss  Oil  Co.  Later,  he  became  a  partner  in  the 
National  Roofing  Co.  and  the  National  Con- 
tracting Co.,  as  well  as  president  of  Webarm 
Diecasting.  In  1959-60,  the  National  Contract- 
ing Co.  sandblasted  and  painted  the  dome  of  the 
U.S.  Capitol  building. 

Mr.  Moran  spent  more  than  25  years  upgrad- 
ing the  former  Union-Truesdale  Hospital  (now 
known  as  Charlton  Memorial  Hospital)  from  a 
small,  two-building  facility  to  a  viable  health 
care  complex,  serving  as  hospital  president, 
trustee  and  as  chairman  of  the  building  commit- 
tee. His  fellow  trustees  paid  tribute  to  him  by 
naming  the  fourth  new  hospital  building  in  his 
honor. 

He  had  served  30  years  as  director  of  the 
former  B.M.C.  Durfee  Trust  Co.  and  as  honor- 
ary director  of  its  successor,  the  Durfee  Attle- 
boro  Bank.  Fifty  years  ago,  he  was  commodore 
of  the  Fall  River  Yacht  Club.  He  belonged  to 
the  ASME,  SAE,  Skull  and  the  Poly  Club,  and 
he  was  a  former  vice  president  of  the  Rhode 
Island  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Charles  N.  Ryan,  '27,  president  and  owner  of 
the  former  Ryan  Manufacturing  Co.,  died  in 
Ware.  MA,  on  April  16,  1984,  at  the  age  of  80. 
He  was  a  native  of  Ware.  In  1969,  he  retired 
from  Ryan  Manufacturing. 

Theodore  J.  Englund,  '28,  a  longtime 
employee  of  Norton  Co..  died  in  Worcester  on 
July  3,  1984,  at  the  age  of  78.  He  was  born  in 
Worcester  and  graduated  with  his  BSME  from 
WPI  in  1928. 

He  was  with  Norton  Co.  for  45  years,  serving 
as  an  industrial  engineer,  manager  of  industrial 
engineering  and  as  a  factory  manager.  He 
retired  in  1969.  For  many  years,  he  taught 
mathematics  at  Worcester  Junior  College.  He 
attended  Harvard  Business  School. 

Ted  was  a  50-year  member  of  the  Mendels- 
sohn Singers  of  the  Trinity  Lutheran  Church.  A 
past  president  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers,  he  was 


NOVEMBER  1984       47 


recently  presented  with  its  distinguished  service 
award.  He  was  secretary  of  the  Class  of  1928. 

He  served  as  a  director  of  the  Shrewsbury 
Historical  Society  and  was  a  former  director  of 
the  Worcester  Crafts  Center.  He  was  a  charter 
member  and  former  council  member  of  Trinity 
Lutheran  Church.  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

John  E.  Gill,  '29,  a  retired  executive  with  Buf- 
falo Forge  Company,  died  in  Sharon,  CT,  on 
May  28,  1984.  at  the  age  of  77.  He  was  born  in 
Manchester.  CT.  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI. 

He  joined  Buffalo  Forge,  Buffalo.  NY,  in 
1929.  retiring  in  1972  as  manager  of  foreign 
licensees.  During  his  career,  he  had  also  served 
as  sales  engineer  and  chief  engineer  of  the  firm. 
He  was  instrumental  in  designing  fan  equip- 
ment for  the  world's  largest  vehicular  tunnel 
through  Mt.  Blanc,  connecting  Italy  and 
France. 

Mr.  Gill  belonged  to  ATO.  the  Poly  Club  and 
Skull.  He  was  a  former  vice  president  of  the 
Western  New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

Richard  W.  Hanson,  '30,  passed  away  in 
Greenville.  SC.  on  September  13,  1983.  He 
was  74,  a  native  of  Biddeford.  ME,  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Class  of  1 930. 

He  was  retired  from  the  Piatt  Saco  Lowell 
Corporation.  In  World  War  II,  he  served  in  the 
U.S.  Army.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

Arthur  W.  Backgren,  '32,  a  retired  opera 
singer,  died  in  San  Francisco  on  June  18,  1984, 
at  the  age  of  73.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  and 
received  his  BSCE  from  WPI. 

Following  graduation,  he  entered  the  insur- 
ance field.  He  then  joined  the  Massachusetts 
Water  Supply  Commission  on  construction  of 
the  Winsor  Dam  of  Quabbin  Reservoir.  Other 
posts  were  with  Quonset  Point  Naval  Air  Sta- 
tion in  Rhode  Island  and  the  U.S.  Engineers  as 
office  engineer  on  flood  control  and  airport 
construction  in  Lowell  and  Bedford,  MA. 

For  20  years  he  sang  in  the  chorus  of  the 
Metropolitan  Opera  in  New  York  City,  retiring 
in  1973.  He  had  also  sung  with  the  New  York 
City  Opera  Company,  at  St.  Thomas  Church  on 
Fifth  Avenue  and  in  choral  productions  with 
Arturo  Toscanini  and  the  NBC  Symphony 
Orchestra.  Earlier,  he  had  sung  leading  bass 
roles  in  the  Gilbert  and  Sullivan  operas  pro- 
duced by  the  Worcester  County  Light  Opera 
Club. 

Ernest  M.  Crowell,  '34,  a  longtime  research 
chemist  in  polymer  chemistry,  died  at  his  home 
in  Beverly,  MA,  on  July  15,  1984,  at  the  age  of 
71 .  Born  in  Marlboro,  he  received  his  degree  in 
chemistry. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  the  Douthart 
Co..  E.F  Drew  &  Co.  and  MIT.  For  more  than 
35  years,  he  worked  for  USM  Corporation 
(Emhart)  in  Beverly,  MA,  where  he  served  as  a 
research  and  development  chemist  in  the 
machinery  division.  His  primary  concern  was 
with  organic  adhesives  for  use  in  shoe  assem- 
bly. He  retired  in  1973. 

Mr.  Crowell  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society,  the  Society  of  Rheology.  the 
American  Association  for  the  Advancement  of 
Science,  the  Quarter  Century  Club  and  the 
Congregational  Church.  He  was  the  father  of 
Douglas  Crowell,  '66. 


B.  Gustaf  Larson,  '34,  a  retired  superintend- 
ent of  maintenance  for  New  England  Power 
Co..  died  in  Fairlawn  Hospital,  Worcester,  on 
June  18,  1984,  at  the  age  of  71.  He  was  born  in 
Worcester  and  graduated  with  a  BSEE  from 
WPI. 

In  1973.  he  retired  from  New  England  Power 
after  having  served  the  company  for  38  years. 
Among  his  posts  with  the  firm  were  meter 
superintendent,  technical  assistant  and  superin- 
tendent of  maintenance.  He  had  also  served  as 
staff  assistant. 

Mr.  Larson,  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer, was  also  a  32nd-degree  Mason  and  a  past 
monarch  and  life  member  of  Aletheia  Grotto. 
He  belonged  to  the  Scottish  Rite  Bodies  and  the 
Shrine.  Other  memberships  were  with  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha,  the  Tech  Old-Timers,  the  Poly  Club 
and  the  Baptist  Church. 

Donald  C.  Mackenzie,  '34,  of  Brewster,  MA, 
died  at  Cape  Cod  Hospital  on  April  21.  1984. 
He  was  72  and  a  native  of  Lowell. 

After  attending  WPI.  he  owned  and  operated 
a  wholesale  grocery  business.  In  1950,  he 
moved  to  Cape  Cod.  where  he  was  a  self- 
employed  cabinetmaker,  specializing  in  antique 
reproduction  furniture.  He  operated  a  shop 
called  The  Pine  Tree  Shilling. 

Clare  W.  Harris,  '38,  of  Carpinteria.  CA, 
retired  project  engineer  from  Rockwell  Interna- 
tional, passed  away  on  May  14,  1984,  follow- 
ing a  long  illness.  A  native  of  Bangor,  ME,  he 
was  born  on  Oct.  28.  1915. 

Following  graduation  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  employed  by  Wright  Aero  Corp.. 
Republic  Aviation  Corp.,  Curtiss-Wright. 
M.W.  Kellogg  Co.  and  Rocketdyne.  He 
belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  the  American 
Rocket  Society.  He  was  an  associate  fellow  of 
theAIAA. 

Robert  J.  Hamilton,  '39,  of  Bridgton,  ME, 
passed  away  in  Florida  on  March  25,  1984, 
after  a  short  illness.  He  was  born  in  Madison, 
ME,  on  July  15,  1915.  He  received  his  BS  from 
the  University  of  Maine  at  Orono. 

At  one  time,  he  was  manager  of  fleet  sales  for 
Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  New  York  City.  He  belonged 
to  Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Gerald  Lainer,  '40,  was  stricken  and  died  at 
his  home  in  Manhassett,  NY,  on  April  1,  1984. 
A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  August  2 1 , 
1918.  He  was  a  graduate  electrical  engineer. 

Mr.  Lainer,  a  member  of  AEPi,  was  in  the 
electronic-equipment  exporting  business  in 
Manhassett. 

Harold  A.  Gibbons,  '49,  died  in  Fort  Pierce 
(FL)  Medical  Center  on  April  25.  1984.  He 
was  born  in  Southampton,  MA,  on  Feb.  14, 
1917.  He  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

For  many  years,  he  was  with  Westinghouse 
Electric  Co.  in  Springfield,  MA,  and  in 
Albany,  NY.  He  retired  and  moved  to  Florida 
in  1977. 

Edward  W.  Eidt,  Sr.,  '53  SIM,  of  Bushnell, 
FL,  passed  away  on  April  3,  1984.  He  was 
born  in  Worcester  on  December  16,  1908. 

During  his  career,  he  was  a  trooper  with  the 
Massachusetts  State  Police,  personnel  manager 
for  Wyman  Gordon,  Worcester,  foreman  for 
Bay  State  Abrasives,  industrial  relations  man- 


ager for  Reed  Prentice  Corp.  and  commissioner 
for  the  Federal  Mediation  Service  in  Albany, 
NY.  In  1955,  he  was  elected  chairman  of  the 
Worcester  Rent  Control  Board. 

He  was  the  father  of  Edward  Eidt,  Jr.,  '57, 
and  William  Eidt,  '65. 

David  E  Johnson,  '58  SIM,  a  retired  comp- 
troller for  Woodbury  Co.,  passed  away  on  May 
30,  1984,  in  Worcester  Memorial  Hospital.  He 
was  born  in  Worcester  on  June  25,  1916. 

A  graduate  of  Northeastern  University,  for 
many  years  he  was  a  comptroller  at  Woodbury 
Co.,  retiring  in  1979.  During  World  War  II,  he 
served  as  a  chief  warrant  officer  in  the  Army. 
He  was  a  lector  at  Immaculate  Conception 
Church,  and  he  was  a  member  of  the  Worcester 
Civitan  Club,  the  National  Cost  Accountants 
Association  and  the  Green  Mountain  Club. 

Walter  Zakrzewski,  '60  MNS,  died  in  Wor- 
cester on  April  5,  1984,  after  a  long  illness.  He 
was  52. 

For  17  years,  he  was  a  science  professor  at 
Quinsigamond  Community  College.  Formerly, 
he  had  taught  chemistry,  physics  and  general 
science  at  Plainfield  (CT)  High  School.  He  then 
taught  and  was  chairman  of  the  science  depart- 
ment at  Leominster  High  School.  Later,  he 
taught  chemistry  at  Auburn  High  School  and 
chemistry  and  biology  at  Grafton  High  School. 

He  graduated  from  Worcester  Junior  College 
in  1952.  In  1954,  he  received  his  BS  in  biology 
and  chemistry  from  Clark.  In  1958  he  was  the 
recipient  of  a  National  Science  Foundation 
scholarship  to  pursue  advanced  training  in 
science. 

Mr.  Zakrzewski  belonged  to  the  Massachu- 
setts Teachers  Association,  the  National  Educa- 
tion Association,  the  American  Association  of 
Physics  Teachers,  the  New  England  Mathemat- 
ical Association  of  Two- Year  Colleges,  the 
American  Mathematics  Association  of  Two- 
Year  Colleges  and  Our  Lady  of  Czestochowa 
Church. 

Laurence  Michaels,  '75,  of  Ringwood,  NJ, 
died  in  January  of  1983,  following  a  long  ill- 
ness. He  was  born  in  Far  Rockaway,  NY,  on 
Sept.  10,  1949.  In  1975,  he  graduated  with  his 
BS  in  computer  science  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  had  served  as  a  systems 
programmer  with  Whitlow  Computer  Systems 
in  Englewood  Cliffs,  NJ,  and  as  a  self- 
employed  computer  consultant  with  Michaels 
Enterprise,  Plainsboro. 

Anthony  Sinkewich,  '79  SIM,  became  ill 
while  on  a  business  trip  in  Seoul,  South  Korea, 
and  died  May  25,  1984.  He  was  72  and  a  native 
of  Barre,  MA. 

He  was  a  graduate  of  WPI's  School  of  Indus- 
trial Management  and  was  also  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1967.  In  1980,  he  retired  after  working 
as  a  heat  treating  specialist  at  Massachusetts 
Steel  Treating  Division  of  GKN  Powdermet 
Inc.  in  Worcester.  Since  1981,  he  had  been  a 
consultant  with  Small  &  Medium  Industry  Pro- 
motion Corp. ,  also  in  Worcester. 

Mr.  Sinkewich  had  an  associate's  degree  in 
engineering  from  Northeastern  University.  He 
was  a  founding  member  of  St.  Columba's 
Church,  Paxton,  and  belonged  to  the  former 
Sons  of  Paxton.  He  was  a  life  member  of  the 
ASM  and  a  member  of  the  American  Associa- 
tion of  Retired  Persons. 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


"of  the  waters  of  the  Earth  " 

continued  from  page  33 

mixed:  "It  really  separated  the  social  from 
the  math  types"  he  says.  In  most  college 
programs,  he  adds,  hydraulics  professors 
teach  hydrology  as  a  subset  of  highway 
engineering  courses.  It  was  his  efforts  at 
Stanford  that  attempted  to  change  that 
direction.  Yet  he  admits  that  today  his 
field  may  be  drying  up,  because,  in  his 
mind,  "Hydrology  is  a  field  that  calls  for 
experience,  and  finding  Ph.D.s  to  head 
graduate  hydrology  programs  is  becoming 
next  to  impossible."  Plus,  he  says,  "The 
computer  seems  to  be  eliminating  the  need 
for  so  many  warm  bodies." 

During  his  tenure  at  Stanford,  Linsley 
also  served  in  the  federal  Office  of  Science 
and  Technology,  was  a  member  of  the 
U.S.  National  Water  Commission,  and 
was  president  and  chairman  of  Hydro- 
comp  Inc.,  Palo  Alto,  CA.  Earlier  in  his 
career,  he  was  a  Fulbright  Professor  at 
Imperial  College,  London.  A  member  of 
the  National  Academy  of  Engineering,  he 
has  won  several  prestigious  ASCE  and 
other  awards. 

In  1973,  he  received  an  honorary  doc- 
toral degree  from  the  University  of  the 
Pacific.  And  in  1979,  WPI  awarded  him 
an  honorary  doctorate  in  engineering,  to 
climax  his  exemplary  career. 

Linsley  retired  from  academics  in  1975, 
leaving  Palo  Alto  ("Too  much  smog  in  the 
Valley,"  he  says)  to  head  Linsley,  Kraeger 
Assoc.  In  the  pristine  air  of  Santa  Cruz,  on 
the  northern  rim  of  Monterey  Bay  ("But 
too  much  water  traffic  for  my  sailing 
style"),  he  and  wife  Ann  are  "comfortably 
inaccessible"  to  the  hectic  demands  of 
academe. 

He's  been  called  the  country's  para- 
mount hydrologist  in  the  heyday  of  the 
profession.  Yet  Ray  Linsley  has  always 
preferred  the  outdoors  to  things  like  the 
cocktail  party  circuit,  the  solitude  of  hik- 
ing to  the  buzz  of  the  city,  the  satisfaction 
of  guiding  Boy  Scouts  to  the  frenzy  of 
public  life.  You  can  almost  hear  the  gur- 
gling of  the  stream,  the  hush  of  the  breeze 
and  the  song  of  unseen  birds  in  the  over- 
sized mural  that  dominates  his  firm's 
offices. 

"Executive"  was  the  type  of  work  indi- 
cated in  his  1937  career  placement  records 
from  WPI.  By  any  measure,  Ray  Linsley 's 
teaching,  research  and  writing,  his  quiet 
style,  leadership  and  intense  commitment 
to  the  best  management  of  our  most  pre- 
cious resource,  have  melded  to  become  a 
classic  fulfillment  of  that  prophetic  obser- 
vation of  almost  50  years  ago. 


FEEDBACK 


Editor: 

A  few  comments  on  your  article  about 

Higgins  House  [August  1984]: 

Much  of  the  structural  lumber  for  the 
house  came  from  about  20  old  New 
England  barns  purchased  by  Aldus  Hig- 
gins, '93,  and  carefully  disassembled. 

The  roof  is  unique.  It  is  made  of  clay 
tiles  which  simulate  cedar  "shakes"  in  an 
amazingly  realistic  way.  Milton  Higgins 
has  told  me  that  the  roof  installed  origi- 
nally did  not  suit  Aldus  Higgins,  who  had 
it  removed  and  replaced  by  the  present 
roof.  These  special  clay  tiles,  I  under- 
stand, were  developed  solely  for  this 
application. 

The  article  says  little  of  the  professional 
achievements  of  the  Higgins  family,  such 
as  the  fact  that  both  Milton  and  Aldus  Hig- 
gins became  president  and  CEO  of  the 
Norton  Company  and  served  as  trustees  of 
WPI  (as  did  Milton's  grandson,  Milton  P. 
Higgins). 

Aldus  Higgins  gave  the  land  for  the  First 
Baptist  Church  at  the  corner  of  Park  Ave- 
nue and  Salisbury  Street  from  part  of  his 


estate.  But  in  the  deed  he  stipulated  that  no 
bells  be  rung  at  the  church. 

Dr.  Ray  E.  Bolz,  Vice  President  and 
Dean  of  the  Faculty  Emeritus 

Editors  note:  For  a  complete  history  of 
the  Higgins  family  and  their  relationship 
with  WPI  and  the  Worcester  community, 
the  reader  may  wish  to  refer  to  Two 
Towers:  The  Story  of  Worcester  Tech,  by 
Mildred  McClary  Ty meson. 

Editor: 

Your  article  "Unraveling  Rainbows" 
(August  1984]  was  very  interesting.  It 
covered  virtually  every  rainbow  myth  and 
theory  throughout  history,  but  failed  to 
consider  the  most  ancient  of  books. 

The  Bible  account  found  in  the  ninth 
chapter  of  Genesis  is  quite  interesting.  It 
shows  how  the  rainbow  serves  as  a  sign  by 
God  that  he  will  never  destroy  the  Earth  by 
flood  again.  The  rainbow  thus  serves  a 
useful  purpose.  It  creates  an  atmosphere  of 
tranquility  after  a  storm. 

Richard  Fisher 


&m 


7 


- 


H 


^ 


•*A 


*i 


. 


^jX 


-~-c*£-"~ 


/ 


- 


9SkStSS 


WASHBURN: 

THE  TRADITION  RESTORED 

Find  out  what's  new-and  what  remains  the  same-in 
WPI's  second-oldest  and  now  most  modern  learning 
facility.  Coverage  of  the  renovation,  expansion  and 
rededication  of  Washburn  Shops  and  Laboratories 
begins  in  this  issue  and  continues  in  the  February  1985 
issue  of  the  journal. 


pM  9  @ 


H  ,-WSv      .  IlL^f  \  Jp 

*'lt  *'" ^^i-irlzs    X->             'i*       ilAj^r<~7l^*5iW*HPB' 

l^-.'^ll         K  '      ^     'Vj   n**^l+    .U.     *'*^ 

HPr-'3'       1 

HScK^H         k  i                             Bfi  80 

Wy^f      »-ml 

E 


&* 


Washburn:  The  Tradition  Restored 


Shakespeare  and  the  Engineer 


Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch  at  rededication  ceremonies  of  the  Washburn  Shops  and 
Laboratories. 


A  Message  from 
the  President 

The  attention  given  in  this  issue  of  the 
WPI  Journal  to  pre-college  education, 
and  to  our  high  schools  in  particular,  is  of 
paramount  importance  to  science  and 
engineering  education  at  the  college  level. 
Because  the  United  States  has  no  national 
system  of  education,  we  often  lose  sight  of 
the  critical  role  pre-college  education 
plays  in  providing  the  proper  base  to  the 
pyramid  within  which  science  and  engi- 
neering education  is  contained.  I  describe 
the  dependence  in  this  manner,  because 
both  the  demographics  and  the  curricular 
substance  of  science  and  engineering  edu- 
cation are  strongly  related  to  a  sequential 
process  that  can  be  thought  of  in  geometric 
terms.  The  sequential  nature  of  the  process 
also  implies  a  time  dimension  for  effecting 
change. 

Consider  first  the  nation's  impending 
demographic  shifts  and  their  consequences 
for  science  and  engineering.  The  projec- 
tion for  high  school  graduates  indicates  a 
22  percent  decrease  nationwide  between 
1982  and  1991.  All  but  ten  states  share  in 
the  decrease,  which  in  absolute  numbers  is 
a  decline  of  approximately  590.000  from  a 
base  of  2.2  million  high  school  graduates. 
This  drop  varies  widely  by  region  and 
state,  with  several  New  England  and  Mid- 
dle Atlantic  states  showing  about  a  40  per- 
cent decline. 

The  ramifications  for  science  and  engi- 
neering education  are  far-reaching.  Half  of 
all  bachelor  of  science  degrees  in  engi- 


neering nationally  now  come  from  45  col- 
leges that  have  400  or  more  graduates  each 
year.  Fourteen  of  these  institutions  are  in 
states  (New  York,  Pennsylvania  and  Mas- 
sachusetts) where  the  high  school  popula- 
tion will  be  especially  hard  hit.  Twenty- 
seven  of  the  45  colleges  are  concentrated 
in  the  13  frost-belt  states,  which  will  all 
experience  an  appreciable  decline  in  their 
high  school  populations.  Clearly,  if  the 
flow  of  science  and  engineering  graduates 
is  to  be  maintained  in  the  face  of  these 
major  demographic  shifts,  substantial 
efforts  will  be  required  to  increase  the 
number  of  high  school  students  who  are 
both  qualified  and  motivated  to  pursue 
these  fields.  The  critical  importance  of  our 
high  schools  is  obvious. 

The  sequential  nature  of  the  process  is 
again  reflected  by  the  need  for  curricular 
strength  in  high  school  science  and  mathe- 
matics programs,  which  form  the  founda- 
tion for  science  and  engineering  educa- 
tion. Unfortunately,  these  are  the  very 
subjects  in  which  our  schools  are  most  vul- 
nerable. Between  1978  and  1984,  at  least 
20  comprehensive  studies  of  the  nation's 
school  systems  cited  major  deficiencies: 
loss  of  basic  purpose,  absence  of  clearly 
identified  goals,  low  expectations  of  stu- 
dents, and  inadequate  teacher  preparation. 
Anyone  who  reads  these  studies  is  struck 
by  their  fundamental  unanimity  on  the  key 
issues  and  must  conclude  beyond  any 
doubt  that  our  nation  is  dangerously  at  risk 
in  several  ways. 

U.S.  technological  supremacy  erodes  as 
other  nations  strengthen  their  own  capaci- 
ties. Our  ability  to  compete  economically 
is  challenged,  and  our  strategic  position  is 


under  constant  pressure,  due  in  part  to  a 
shortage  of  excellent  engineers  and  scien- 
tists and  a  lack  of  scientific  and  mathemat- 
ical literacy.  Such  literacy  is  essential  if 
our  citizens  are  to  support  a  technologi- 
cally based  society. 

In  the  past  20  years  the  percentage  of 
high  school  students  completing  courses  in 
science  and  mathematics  declined  in  biol- 
ogy, general  science,  geometry  and  alge- 
bra. This  loss  of  interest  is  significant 
when  we  realize  that  Japan  and  the  Soviet 
Union  recognize  that  world  leadership 
depends  on  technological  superiority.  It 
has  been  observed  that  the  technological 
battle  with  the  Japanese  is  really  an  indus- 
trial equivalent  of  the  East-West  arms 
race. 

Students'  disinterest  in  pre-college  sci- 
ence courses  is  acquired  early:  Nearly  half 
of  them  dislike  science  by  the  end  of  the 
third  grade;  the  figure  jumps  to  nearly  80 
percent  by  the  eighth  grade.  The  popular- 
ity of  mathematics  declines  from  a  high  of 
48  percent  in  grade  3  to  a  low  of  18  per- 
cent in  grade  12.  Another  study  traces  the 
loss  of  talent  from  the  nation's  4.2  million 
high  school  freshmen  in  1977-78:  Only 
about  300,000  of  these  students  (7.3  per- 
cent) entered  the  study  of  science  and 
engineering  as  college  freshmen  in  1981  — 
82;  83,000, or  2  percent  of  the  original 
high  school  class, will  graduate,  0.4  per- 
cent will  earn  a  master  of  science  degree 
and  0. 1  percent  a  doctorate  in  science  and 
engineering.  The  paucity  of  doctorates  is 
directly  related  to  the  serious  shortage  of 
faculty  in  several  engineering  disciplines. 
This  loss  of  interest  and  talent  is  a  national 
tragedy  and  clearly  affects  our  pool  of  sci- 
entists and  engineers. 

To  meet  this  critical  situation,  the 
nation's  school  systems  must  embark  on 
an  urgent  program  to  revitalize  mathemat- 
ics, science  and  technology  education  in 
pre-college  curricula.  We  will  need  to 
establish  regional  "lighthouse"  schools  in 
which  these  subjects  are  given  high  prior- 
ity so  that  they  can  serve  as  beacons  to 
which  other  schools  can  look  for  guidance. 
The  task  can  only  be  accomplished  in  a 
realistic  time-frame  if  our  science  and 
engineering  colleges— together  with  our 
professional  societies,  industry  and  gov- 
ernment— actively  support  the  required 
effort.  Priorities  will  need  to  be  changed 
and  additional  sources  of  talent  and  funds 
directed  at  this  effort. 

'  Edmund  T.  Cranch 

President 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  88,  NUMBER  3 

Staff  of  The  WPI  JOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor,  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Sports  Editor,  Gene  Blaum 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  William  J. 
Firla,  Jr.  '60,  chair;  Samuel  W.  Mencow,  '37; 
Stanley  P.  Negus,  Jr.,  '54;  Judith  Nitsch,  '75. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College,  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective  alumni 
magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second  class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  additional 
mailing  offices.  Pages  1-20,  37-56  ®  1985, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I-XVI 
®  1985,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Design  and  Production 
Coordinator,  Amy  Doudiken;  Designer,  Jane 
D'Alelio;  Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown, 
Time  Inc.  Fellow,  Joe  Levine. 

Advisory  Board  of  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Richard  Kneedler;  Hartwick  College,  Merrilee 
Gomillion;  Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.J. 
Norris  and  Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Poly- 
technic Institute,  Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M. 
Whitaker;  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
Donald  F.  Berth  and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 


Acknowledgments: 

Typesetting,  BG  Composition,  Inc. 
American  Press,  Inc. 


Printing, 


Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor,  The  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


FEBRUARY  1985 


4  Mr.  Washburn  Would  Approve 

A  special  look  at  the  nation's  oldest  building 
for  engineering  education,  WPI's  Washburn 
Shops,  rededicated  after  a  major  facelift. 

14  Shakespeare  and  the  Engineer 

WPI's  second  largest  faculty,  the  Humanities 
Department,  plays  a  vital  role  in  educating 
tomorrow's  technologists. 
Michael  Shanley 

18  hom'kum'ir;  '84 

More  than  just  a  return  to  the  nest. 

I  A  high  school  is  a  high  school. 

An  interview  with  Educator  Theodore  R. 
Sizer,  who  says  the  traditional  high  school's 
structure  gets  in  the  way  of  learning. 

VIII  High  School  News 

A  compendium  of  research  on  topics  from 
dropouts  to  computers  to  college  counseling— 
plus  what's  on  some  teachers'  minds. 

37  Inside  the  Education  Crisis,  and  Why 
You  Should  Get  Involved 

A  megadose  of  systems  engineering  is  what's 
needed,  says  the  author. 
Charles  M.  Richardson  '46 


Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 

Class  Notes       41 

Feedback        56 

Ampersand       Inside  back  cover 


Cover:  The  Washburn  Shops  and  Laboratories,  restored.  Photograph  by 
Robert  Arnold. 


FEBRUARY  1985        1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


To  ABET  or  not  to  ABET 

In  early  November  1984,  representatives 
of  the  Accreditation  Board  for  Engineering 
and  Technology  (ABET)  made  a  planned 
visit  to  WPI  to  review  the  curricula  of  the 
Departments  of  Chemical,  Civil,  Electri- 
cal and  Mechanical  Engineering,  which 
ABET  accredits.  In  a  1981  visit,  ABET 
granted  these  departments  three-year 
accreditation  but  also  recommended  rein- 
forcing the  science  component  of  the  pro- 
grams for  engineering  students.  Subse- 
quently, these  departments  complied  with 
the  ABET  recommendation  and  estab- 
lished distribution,  or  degree,  require- 
ments to  take  effect  with  freshman  enter- 
ing WPI  in  September  1984. 

In  keeping  with  its  policies,  ABET  vis- 
ited WPI  in  November  to  review  the 
actions  it  had  recommended  in  1981. 
According  to  Vice  President  and  Dean  of 
the  Faculty  Richard  H.  Gallagher,  WPI 
will  receive  a  written  evaluation  of 
ABET's  November  visit  in  April  1985  and 
will  have  four  weeks  to  respond.  Later,  in 
June  or  July  1985,  the  four  departments 
will  receive  word  of  ABET's  accreditation 
decision. 

"ABET  accreditation,"  says  William  R. 
Grogan  '46,  Dean  of  Undergraduate 
Studies,  "is  the  single  most  important 
endorsement  of  the  academic  qualifica- 
tions of  any  college's  engineering  pro- 
grams." "Without  ABET  accreditation," 
he  adds,  "WPI's  engineering  disciplines 
may  face  serious  problems  of  credibility — 
before  prospective  students  and  employers 
alike." 

According  to  Grogan,  during  an  exit 
interview  at  its  November  visit,  ABET 
suggested  broadening  the  coverage  of  dis- 
tribution requirements  still  further.  It  also 
recommended  review  of  WPI's  faculty 
advising  system.  Active,  well-informed 
advisors,  the  ABET  panel  said,  are  vital  to 
any  program  which  allows  students  free- 
dom in  selecting  courses.  Such  academic 
freedom  is  a  hallmark  of  the  WPI  Plan. 
Debate  over  how  best  to  meet  ABET 


71$  the  season— for  seniors  to  line  up  for  job  interviews.  At  the  Office  of  Graduate  and 
Career  Plans,  business  is  hot  and  heavy. 


expectations  while  preserving  flexibility 
has  been  active,  and  at  times,  heated 
among  faculty,  administration  and  stu- 
dents for  the  past  three  years  or  more. 

Along  other  guidelines,  says  Gallagher, 
ABET  was  quite  positive  in  its  review  of 
WPI's  engineering  programs,  including 
such  elements  as  laboratory  equipment, 
faculty  and  student  quality  and  institu- 
tional support. 


Presidential  Search 
Update 

As  reported  in  the  November  1984  Jour- 
nal, Dr.  Edmund  T.  C ranch  has  resigned 
the  presidency  of  WPI,  effective  June  30, 
1985.  After  seven  years  at  the  helm,  he 
will  become  president  of  Wang  Institute  of 
Graduate  Studies,  Tyngsboro,  MA. 


Irving  James  Donahue,  Jr.  '44,  vice 
chairman  of  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees, 
has  announced  formation  of  a  presidential 
search  committee.  He  will  chair  this  com- 
mittee, which  consists  of  trustees,  faculty, 
alumni,  staff  and  one  student. 

According  to  Dr.  Ray  E.  Bolz,  secretary 
to  the  committee  and  Vice  President  and 
Dean  of  the  Faculty  Emeritus,  the  com- 
mittee hopes  to  make  its  recommendation 
to  the  Board  of  Trustees  sometime  this 
spring.  In  addition,  as  we  went  to  press, 
the  committee  was  considering  use  of  an 
executive  search  firm  as  a  complement  to 
the  committee's  efforts.  Such  involve- 
ment, says  Bolz,  would  be  used  only  to 
identify  appropriate  candidates  rather  than 
also  to  contribute  to  candidates'  evalua- 
tions or  the  committee's  recommendation 
to  the  Board. 

The  closing  date  for  applications  for  the 
presidency  was  January  25,  1985. 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Paul  Bayliss  '60  to  Preside 
Over  Alumni  Association 

For  the  1985-86  academic  year,  Paul  W. 
Bayliss  '60,  of  Barrington,  Illinois,  will 
serve  as  president  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  according  to  Stephen  J. 
Hebert  '66,  Director  of  Development  and 
Alumni  Affairs.  Bayliss  will  succeed 
Harry  W.  Tenny,  Jr.  '56. 

Bayliss  has  been  active  in  alumni  activi- 
ties for  many  years,  serving  as  senior  vice 
president  of  the  Association,  1984-85, 
and  for  several  years  as  chairman  of  the 
Alumni  Trustee  Search  Committee,  which 
nominates  WPI  graduates  for  term  posi- 
tions on  the  Board  of  Trustees. 

In  other  appointments,  Alex  C. 
Papianou  '57  will  succeed  Bayliss  as  se- 
nior vice  president.  New  members  of  the 
Alumni  Fund  board,  effective  August  20, 


1984,  are  Michael  A.  DiPierro  '68,  Bruce 
A.  MacPhetres  '60  and  Stanley  P.  Negus, 
Jr.  '54. 


Yours  for  a  Song 

Your  years  at  WPI  may  have  found  you 
singing  in  the  Glee  Club,  the  Technicords. 
the  Polytones,  your  fraternity  octet,  or 
even  in  the  shower.  If  so,  you  like  to  sing 
and  can  (maybe)  carry  a  tune  and  even 
harmonize  a  bit.  If  you  still  enjoy  croon- 
ing, can  sight  read  or  learn  a  part  quickly, 
and  would  like  to  bring  back  those  old 
favorites,  have  I  got  a  deal  for  you! 

For  a  few  months  now,  a  small  group  of 
us  grads  have  been  getting  together  to 
rehearse  the  oldies  we  all  remember— for 
the  fun  of  it  and  maybe  to  sing  at  Reunion 
or  Homecoming  or  other  campus  events. 

The  tunes  have  harmonies  we  can  han- 


dle, and  we  rehearse  on  campus  for  con- 
venience. So  if  you  enjoy  singing  and 
think  you'd  enjoy  the  company  of  kindred 
spirits,  why  not  plan  to  join  us.  Give  me  a 
call,  and  I'll  give  you  the  details. 

Alex  Papianou  '57 
(617)543-5935 

Editor's  Note 

A  few  days  before  mailing  of  the  Novem- 
ber 1984  issue  of  the  Journal,  Lawrence 
C.  Neale  '40  passed  away.  He  was  direc- 
tor of  Alden  Research  Laboratory  (ARL) 
from  1968  until  1975.  We  regret  that  pub- 
lishing deadlines  prevented  us  from  noting 
his  death  in  the  November  issue,  which 
contained  a  feature  story  on  ARL.  His 
obituary  appears  on  page  56  of  this  issue 
of  the  Journal.  Our  condolences  to  his 
family  and  friends. 


Unseasonably  warm  fall  and  early  winter  weather  enabled  easier  construction  of  WPI's  new  residence  center  at  the  corner  of  Institute 
Road  and  Boynton  Street.  The  new  facility,  to  house  and  feed  229  students,  should  be  open  for  September  1985  classes. 


FEBRUARY  1985 


Mr.  Washburn 
Would  Approve 


He  never  lived  to  see  his  dream  open  its  doors  to  hopeful 
young  industrialists  like  himself.  Still,  after  116  years, 
Ichabod  Washburn  would   admire  the  facelifting  his 
Washburn  Shops  recently  received. 

If  Ichabod  Washburn  were  able  to  view  his  Shops  today,  he'd 
have  little  trouble  locating  the  building  from  the  outside,  for  its 
facade  remains  essentially  unchanged.  But  inside  there's  a  whole 
new  world,  with  the  latest  technology,  faculty  space  and  more. 
Where  once  stood  his  shops,  its  banks  of  lathes  linked  by  leather 
belts  to  steam-powered  shafts,  he'd  see  a  computer-controlled 
machine  tool  cutting  intricate  shapes  from  instructions  pro- 
grammed by  a  student  operator. 

Where  students  once  worked  at  rows  of  blacksmiths'  forges 
heating  iron  to  white-hot  plasticity,  he'd  see  today  robots  pro- 
grammed to  perform  in  accurate  repetition  the  most  dangerous 
and  tedious  jobs  of  industry. 

On  the  second  floor  where  stood  his  beloved  woodworking 
shop,  he'd  find  the  Department 
of  Management.  He'd  see  stu- 
dents seated  not  at  ruled  ledg- 
ers but  in  front  of  computer  ter- 
minals, learning  how  to 
process,  store  and  retrieve  the 
information  needed  to  make 
management  decisions  in 
moments. 

In  his  day,  Ichabod 
Washburn  was  one  of  Worces- 
ter's most  successful  business- 
men. He  was  an  inventor  and 
an  innovator.  He  had  built  the 
world's  largest  wire  mill 
because  he  had  applied  new 
ideas  effectively. 

If  he  could  see  these  reno- 
vated and  enlarged  Shops 
which  bear  his  name,  he'd  be 
the  first  to  recognize  that  after 
1 16  years,  the  educational  con- 
cept on  which  the  Shops  was 
built  remains  alive  and  well 
within  its  walls. 

And  Mr.  Washburn  would 
approve. 


Milton  P.  Higgins  and  Philip 
Morgan  officially  open  the 
Shops,  as  Dr.  Edmund  T. 
Cranch  looks  on. 


For  years,  the  Washburn  Shops  has  stood  as  testament  to 
Ichabod  Washburn's  sagacious  vision  of  a  school  for  teach- 
ing modern  factory  techniques.  Yet  time  cannot  help  but 
take  its  toll  on  both  the  physical  condition  of  the  building  and  the 
facilities  within. 

When  the  Shops  opened  in  1869,  students  were  greeted  with 
what  was  by  the  standards  of  the  day  an  ultramodern  manufactur- 
ing facility.  Besides  the  new  machinery,  there  was  a  staff  of 
experienced  craftsmen  under  the  watchful  eye  of  Milton  Prince 
Higgins,  the  Shops'  first  superintendent. 

In  accordance  with  the  founding  concept,  the  Washburn  Shops 
created  an  environment  that  simulated  the  manufacturing  floor  of 
the  day,  providing  students  hands-on  practice  in  advanced  pro- 
duction methods  to  complement  the  "book  learning"  of  their 
classroom  courses.  Too,  the  Shops  produced  manufactured 
goods  for  sale:  lathes,  drill  presses,  grinding  machinery,  labora- 
tory equipment  and  even  hydraulic  elevators,  which  had  been 

designed  by  Mr.  Higgins  right 
there  in  the  Washburn  Shops. 

But  perhaps  the  Shops'  best- 
known  product  was  the 
Washburn  Drawing  Stand,  a 
tilting,  wooden  drawing  table 
mounted  on  a  three-legged  cast 
iron  base.  For  more  than  80 
years  the  Shops  shipped  them 
to  corporate  drafting  rooms  and 
schools  throughout  the  country. 
WPI  still  receives  an  occa- 
sional letter  inquiring  about 
replacement  parts.  On  the  cam- 
pus itself,  these  stands  remain 
a  common  sight  in  classrooms 
where  they  serve  as  lecterns, 
prized  relics  of  an  earlier  era. 

The  boom  years  of  the 
Washburn  Shops  as  a  commer- 
cial activity  came  at  the  end  of 
the  19th  century.  On  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees,  however, 
there  were  some  who  began  to 
feel  that  a  commercial  enter- 
prise, prosperous  as  it  might 
be,  was  an  inappropriate 
adjunct  to  an  institution  of 
higher  learning.  They  were  a 
minority,  but  a  vocal  one. 
"The  educational  features  of 
the  Shops,"  they  were  saying, 


4       WPI  JOURNAL 


"are  getting  lost  in  its  profit- making 
incentives." 

It  took  nearly  50  years  to  phase  out  the 
commercial  shops,  beginning  with  sale  of 
the  elevator  business  in  1896.  Yet  even 
today,  industry-sponsored  research  in 
Washburn's  Manufacturing  Engineering 
Applications  Center  (MEAC).  the  Materi- 
als Processing  Laboratory  and  other  facili- 
ties continues  the  Shops'  tradition  of  close 
ties  with  industry. 

The  issue  of  the  Shops  came  to  a  head 
early  in  the  tenure  of  WPI's  third  presi- 
dent, Dr.  Thomas  C.  Mendenhall,  who 
served  from  1894  to  1901 .  The  new  presi- 
dent faced  up  squarely  to  the  controversy. 
(See  "Mendenhall"  on  page  12.) 

The  $4  million  renovation,  expansion 
and  re-equipping  of  Washburn  have 
revitalized  WPI's  second  oldest 
building  and  have  created  under  one  roof  a 
modern  yet  practical  environment  for  con- 
tinuing and  broadening  WPI's  original 
Two  Towers  tradition.  The  reborn 
Washburn  now  houses: 

•  Modern  manufacturing  and  materials 
processing  laboratories  stocked  with  state- 
of-the-art  equipment,  including  computer- 
aided  manufacturing,  computer  graphics, 
multiple  testing  systems,  injection  molders 
and  automated  manufacturing  equipment. 

•  Eight  identical  "machining  modules." 
equipped  with  lathe  and  milling  machine— 
the  heart  of  any  machining  operation- 
plus  a  video-cassette  system  for  on-screen, 
individualized  instruction.  A  specialized 
equipment  area  and  group  demonstration 
room,  also  with  a  video  system,  are  just 
steps  away  from  each  module. 

•  MEAC.  an  industry-college  program 
that  applies  robotic  technology  to  current 


manufacturing  production  problems. 
•  The  Department  of  Management  and 
Management  Engineering  (including  the 
faculty  in  Industrial  and  Operations  Engi- 
neering), which  recently  developed  an 
MBA  program  designed  specifically  for 
managers  of  technological  organizations. 

According  to  the  architects.  Goody. 
Clancy  &  Associates  Inc.  of  Boston, 
improvements  to  the  complex  cover  some 
46.000  square  feet  in  all— more  than  an 
acre— and  include  two  new  floors  of  space 
above  the  former  welding  shop. 

What's  more,  the  Washburn  Shops  is  the 
nation's  oldest  building  for  the  teaching  of 
engineering  (Boynton  Hall  now  houses 
administrative  offices).  The  Shops  is  listed 
in  the  National  Register  of  Historical 
Places  and  has  been  named  by  the  Ameri- 
can Society  for  Metals  a  National  Histori- 
cal Landmark. 

It  truly  was  a  celebration,  bringing  to  a 
new— yet  an  old— facility  a  blend  of 
perspectives  on  the  past,  present  and 
future  of  WPI.  and  on  higher  education's 
role  in  what  is  being  called  the  high-tech- 
nology revolution.  It  was  an  opportunity  to 
thank  the  many  individuals  and  organiza- 
tions that  made  the  Washburn  restoration  a 
reality.  And  it  was  a  chance  for  WPI's 
friends  and  neighbors  to  sample  one  of 
WPI's  most  advanced  facilities  for  educat- 
ing tomorrow's  engineers. 

It  was  "Washburn:  The  Tradition 
Restored"— the  formal  rededication  of  the 
Washburn  Shops.  October  19-20,  1984. 

Dr.  Thomas  C.  Mendenhall  II.  the 
grandson  and  namesake  of  WPI's  third 
president,  delivered  the  keynote  address. 
"Grandfather's  Views  on  Science.  Engi- 
neering and  Management"  was  a  wide- 


ranging  journey  through  a  watershed 
period  in  the  evolution  of  the  Washburn 
Shops  (see  excerpts  from  his  address,  page 
12),  punctuated  in  words  and  emotion  with 
the  kind  of  frank  humor  that  is  a  Men- 
denhall trademark. 

Later.  Professor  of  Management  Arthur 
Gerstenfeld  was  moderator  as  four  movers 
and  shakers  of  high  technology  gave  their 
views  on  the  challenges  confronting  higher 
education  in  helping  to  build  industrial 
America.  The  four  executives— Martin  A. 
Allen.  Chairman.  Computervision  Corp.. 
and  a  WPI  Trustee:  Fred  W.  Garry,  Vice 
President.  Corporate  Engineering  and 
Manufacturing.  General  Electric  Co.: 
John  A.  Weese.  Director.  Division  of 
Mechanical  Engineering  and  Applied 
Mechanics.  Natural  Science  Foundation: 
and  Russell  G.  Meyerand.  Jr..  Vice  Presi- 
dent (Technology).  United  Technologies 
Corp.— shared  their  perspectives  on  this 
crucial  issue,  enlightening  and  impressing 
the  enthusiastic  audience. 

Informal  tours  of  the  restored  Washburn 
and  dedication  of  the  Arthur  E.  Smith  '33 
Materials  Testing  Laboratory  followed. 
Though  Mr.  Smith,  a  retired  chairman  of 
United  Technologies  Corporation,  was 
unable  to  attend  the  ceremonies  because  of 
illness,  his  wife.  Frances,  and  son  Ken- 
neth joined  Dr.  Meyerand  and  the  WPI 
community  in  honoring  one  of  WPI's  most 
distinguished  graduates. 

Later  that  evening  trustees  and  guests  of 
the  college  gathered  for  dinner  in  Alden 
Hall.  The  evening  provided  an  opportunity 
for  informal  exchange  after  a  long  day  of 
scheduled  events  and  marked  the  conclu- 
sion of  the  three-year-long  Capital  Pro- 
gram, which  was  capped  by  the  Washburn 
project.   The  high  point  of  the  evening 


*V^ 


Worcester  County  Free  Institute  of  Industrial  Science,  opened  in  1868. 


Ichabod  Washburn,  J 798- 1 868. 


FEBRUARY  1985       5 


came  in  light  and  sound,  in  a  specially 
commissioned  slide  show  of  the  history  of 
the  Washburn  Shops.  It  was  a  perfect 
nightcap  to  an  extraordinary  day  and  set 
the  stage  for  the  events  of  the  following 
morning. 

Saturday.  October  20,  couldn't  have 
been  more  lovely:  an  idyllic  autumn  day  in 
central  New  England.  Hundreds  from  the 
public  toured  the  Shops,  entertained  and 
delighted  by  what  they  saw:  spanking 
clean  machining  modules,  industrial 
robots  executing  intricate  maneuvers,  lab- 
oratories displaying  latest  generation 
equipment,  the  history  and  tradition  of  the 
Two  Towers. 

At  the  dedication  of  the  Shops'  Milton 
Prince  Higgins  Lecture  Hall,  President 
Edmund  T.  Cranch  noted  in  his  remarks 
what  a  challenge  and  a  joy  it  has  been  to 
work  with  life  trustee  Higgins.  "The  ques- 
tions he  asks,"  said  Cranch,  "are  always 
right  on  target.  He  is  a  president's  trustee, 
the  best  of  his  kind."  The  break  in  Dr. 


Cranch's  voice  was  evident  even  at  the 
back  of  the  hall.  Yet  few  in  the  audience 
knew  at  that  point  that  the  Washburn  proj- 
ect would  be  one  of  Dr.  Cranch's  last 
major  programs  as  president:  Earlier  that 
morning,  he  had  announced  his  resigna- 
tion to  the  trustees,  effective  June  30, 
1985. 

Finally,  the  ribbon  was  cut  at  the  Shops' 
new  entrance  on  Freeman  Plaza.  Fittingly, 
Peter  Morgan  and  Milton  Higgins  did  the 
honors,  assisted  by  President  Cranch.  It 
was  Charles  Morgan  who  had  seen  con- 
struction of  the  Shops  through  to  comple- 
tion for  the  ailing  Ichabod  Washburn.  And 
it  was  the  elder  Milton  Higgins,  two  gen- 
erations before,  who  had  charted  the 
course  of  the  Shops  as  its  first  superintend- 
ent. The  modern-day  Milton  Higgins,  his 
eyes  perhaps  dimmed  by  the  years,  yet  his 
mind  ever  so  sharp,  and  Philip  Morgan, 
Charles  Morgan's  great  grandson,  together 
launched  the  Shops  on  a  new  course  for 
the  future. 


Washburn  symposium 
panelist  Fred  W.  Garry 
(top  left)  of  General 
Electric  Company:  "The 
continuing  education  of 
engineers  is  absolutely 
essential." Dr.  Russell 
G.  Meyerand,  Jr.  (left) 
of  United  Technologies 
Corporation:  "It  is  terri- 
bly important  that  engi- 
neering education 
emphasize  fundamen- 
tals." Raymond  J. 
Forkey  '40  (below, 
right).  Capital  Program 
Chairman,  receives  a 
pewter  replica  of  the 
Washburn  tower  from 
Dr.  Edmund  T  Cranch 
at  the  trustees '  dinner  in 
Alden  Hall. 


Fuller,  General  Electric,  Higgins, 
Lufkin,  Morgan,  Norton,  Perreault, 
Smith,  United  States  Steel,  United 
Technologies:  these  names  head  a  list  of 
WPI  benefactors  that  have  helped  greatly 
in  giving  new  life  to  the  Washburn  Shops; 
people  and  organizations  without  whose 
generosity  the  Washburn  program  would 
not  have  been  possible. 

The  George  F.  and  Sybil  H.  Fuller 
Foundation 

In  1887,  at  the  age  of  18,  the  late  George 
Fuller  began  what  was  to  become  a  life- 
long affiliation  with  Wyman-Gordon 
Company.  He  started  as  the  fledgling 
firm's  bookkeeper,  a  skill  he  taught  him- 
self in  a  month— after  he  had  convinced 
Winfield  Wyman  '82  and  Lyman  Gordon 
'81  of  his  worthiness.  He  also  learned 
what  he  could  about  the  heart  of  Wyman- 
Gordon:  the  newly  evolving  business  of 
drop  forging  (now  called  closed  die  forg- 
ing). 

Several  years  later,  in  a  moment  of  crisis 
for  the  young  company.  Fuller  found  a 
way  to  strengthen  metal  through  heat  treat- 
ing to  prevent  brittleness  in  forged  indus- 
trial parts.  This  hard- won  success  proved 
to  be  a  turning  point  both  for  the  young 
company  and  for  George  Fuller.  He  would 
go  on  to  lead  W-G  for  48  of  his  76  years 
with  the  firm. 

He  never  graduated  from  high  school, 
having  to  support  his  family  after  his 
father  died.  Yet  in  1944,  WPI  awarded 
George  Fuller  an  honorary  doctorate  in 
engineering.  He  also  served  on  the  WPI 
Board  of  Trustees  from  1920  until  1939 
and  again  from  1948-58.  In  addition  to  its 
support  of  the  Washburn  construction,  the 
Fuller  Foundation  made  a  generous  £rant 
for  the  renovation  of  Raven  Hall  during 
the  Capital  Program  of  1979-83.  WPI's 
Fuller  Residence  for  students  was  named 
in  Mr.  Fuller's  honor. 

General  Electric  Company 

A  gift  of  significant  proportions  from  GE, 
made  in  connection  with  the  Washburn 
Shops'  restoration,  will  be  used  to  develop 
senior-year  and  graduate  level  courses  and 
laboratories  in  topics  closely  identified 
with  manufacturing  engineering.  Students 
and  programs  in  computer  aided  design 
and  manufacturing  (CAD/CAM)  automa- 
tion controls,  industrial  automation,  frac- 
ture mechanics,  and  ceramics  will  benefit 
directly  from  the  GE  grant. 

General  Electric  has  a  tradition  of  sup- 
porting engineering  and  science  educa- 
tion. The  help  of  GE,  one  of  the  nation's 
oldest  companies,   will  enable  WPI  to 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


The  Names 

Behind  the 

Washburn  Story 


accelerate  the  development  of  engineering 
courses  and  laboratories  in  the  new 
Washburn  Shops  and  elsewhere  on  cam- 
pus. 

Milton  Prince  Higgins  and  Norton 
Company 

Milton  Higgins'  WPI  heritage  goes  back 
to  the  beginning  of  the  Institute,  when  his 
grandfather,  for  whom  he  was  named,  was 
appointed  to  the  first  faculty  as  superin- 
tendent of  the  Washburn  Shops. 

His  father,  Aldus  C.  Higgins.  was  grad- 
uated in  the  Class  of  1893.  served  as  presi- 
dent of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  and 
was  a  trustee  for  nearly  50  years.  It  was 
Aldus  Higgins  who  built  and  later  donated 
to  the  college  the  magnificent  residence 
known  today  simply  as  the  Higgins 
House. 

Milton  Higgins  was  president  of  Norton 
Company  (of  which  his  grandfather  and 
Professor  George  I.  Alden  had  been 
founders)  when  he  joined  the  WPI  Board 
in  1955,  becoming  the  third  generation  of 
his  family  to  serve  in  these  two  roles. 

Milton  Higgins  served  as  chairman  of 
the  WPI  Centennial  Fund,  which  sur- 
passed its  goal  of  $15  million  in  support  of 
campus  capital  needs  in  the  1960s.  He  also 
served  as  trustee  chairman  from  1971  to 
1978,  during  implementation  of  the  WPI 


Plan,  a  bold  departure  from  traditional 
engineering  education.  For  WPI,  this  was 
a  period  of  unprecedented  growth  in  stu- 
dent enrollment,  faculty  hiring,  research 
and  alumni  giving.  Yet,  throughout  these 
years.  WPI  operated  with  a  balanced  bud- 
get during  every  year  except  one. 

At  the  Washburn  Shops  rededication. 
WPI  named  a  new  1 10-seat  lecture  hall  in 
honor  of  Milton  Prince  Higgins.  He  and 
Norton  Company,  which  celebrates  its 
centennial  this  year,  have  been  among  the 
Institute's  most  devoted  advocates  for 
many  years.  Norton  Company,  the  world's 
leading  maker  of  abrasives  and  grinding 
wheels,  and  industrial  ceramics  and  drills, 
has  played  a  vital  role  in  many  WPI  pro- 
grams. It  was  a  charter  member  of  the 
Management  of  Advanced  Automation 
Technology  (MAAT)  Center,  is  a  member 
of  MEAC  and  houses  a  WPI  Project  Cen- 
ter. Scores  of  its  employees  are  also  active 
in  the  college's  School  of  Industrial  Man- 
agement (SIM)  and  continuing  education 
programs. 

For  three  decades,  Milton  Higgins  has 
helped  guide  WPI  through  by  far  its  most 
dramatic  era  of  growth  and  expansion.  He 
has  brought  the  name  Higgins  full  circle  in 
the  history  of  WPI  and  the  Washburn 
Shops.  And  his  service  to  the  college  will 
not  soon  be  forgotten. 


Name  day:  From  left,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Milton  P.  Higgins,  Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch  and  Nor- 
ton Company  President  Donald  Melville  at  dedication  of  the  Washburn  lecture  hall 
named  in  honor  of  Mr.  Higgins. 


The  Morgan  Family 

Morgan  Construction  Company,  an  impor- 
tant benefactor  of  the  Washburn  restora- 
tion, has  been  closely  identified  with  the 
wire  industry  as  well  as  with  WPI  since 
the  company's  founding  in  the  late  19th 
century  by  Charles  H.  Morgan.  He  was 
the  great-grandfather  of  Paul  S.  Morgan, 
the  firm's  current  chairman  and  president. 

In  1866.  at  the  suggestion  of  Ichabod 
Washburn.  Charles  Morgan  was  given  the 
responsibility  of  erecting,  equipping  and 
overseeing  the  Washburn  Shops  as  well  as 
planning  for  its  continuance.  He  was  also 
elected  a  trustee  of  the  college.  Since 
Washburn  died  shortly  before  the  Shops' 
completion,  it  was  thus  left  to  Morgan  to 
bring  to  life  Washburn's  dream  of  a  mod- 
em factory  setting  for  teaching  young  men 
their  life  trades. 

In  1888.  Morgan  formed  a  company  to 
design  and  build  wire  drawing  machinery 
for  his  own  Morgan  Spring  Co.  and  other 
wire  makers.  Meanwhile,  his  son.  Paul  B. 
Morgan.  Class  of  1890.  was  being 
groomed  to  take  over  Morgan  Construc- 
tion for  his  aging  father  in  an  era  of  stiffen- 
ing competition.  The  legacy  did  not  end 
here.  Philip  M.  Morgan,  son  of  Paul  B. 
Morgan,  also  became  president  of  the 
company,  as  has  his  son.  Paul  S.  Morgan. 
In  a  similar  vein,  these  four  Morgans  have 
served  on  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees. 
Most  recently.  Paul  S.  Morgan  retired  as 
chairman  in  January  1984. 

Built  in  1958.  the  Morgan  Hall  student 
residence  was  named  in  honor  of  the  fam- 
ily which  has  served  through  four  genera- 
tions of  trusteeship  in  continuous  leader- 
ship of  the  Institute. 

Raymond  J.  Perreault  '38 

Ray  Perreault  is  one  of  three  brothers  who 
were  graduated  from  WPI  in  the  1930s.  A 
Worcester  native,  he  earned  his  bachelor's 
degree  in  mechanical  engineering  and  has 
enjoyed  a  rewarding  career  in  the  metal- 
working  industry.  Still,  for  all  his  success, 
he  has  never  forgotten  the  education  he 
received  at  WPI. 

It  is.  perhaps,  his  gratitude  for  this  edu- 
cation as  well  as  his  commitment  to  the 
mission  of  the  college,  that  have  caused 
him  to  establish  a  scholarship  fund  and  to 
contribute  to  the  refurbishing  of  the 
Alumni  Office  in  Boynton  Hall. 

Recently  he  has  also  seen  fit  to  provide 
in  a  major  way  for  the  renovation  and 
expansion  of  the  Washburn  Shops,  sup- 
porting construction  of  the  main  machin- 
ing shop  and  a  Washburn  machining  mod- 
ule. The  college  is  indeed  grateful  for  the 
sustained  generosity  of  Ray  Perreault  and 


FEBRUARY  1985 


Painters  putting  final  touches  on  the 
Shops '  bell  tower  (right) ,  before  place- 
ment of  the  regilded  arm-and-hammer 
weathervane.  Clockwise  from  far  right: 
the  Shops '  new  main  entrance,  which 
opens  onto  Freeman  Plaza;  the  Manage- 
ment Department 's  suite  of  offices  on  the 
Shops '  second  floor;  from  the  outside,  the 
renovated  Shops  appears  little  changed; 
construction  on  the  Shops '  west  end,  once 
the  site  of  welding  shops,  now  home  of 
ME  AC;  where  a  spaghetti-like  network  of 
leather  belts  once  connected  machining 
tools  to  steam  engines  (insert),  construc- 
tion makes  way  for  modern  industrial 
equipment  and  methods. 


i 


■ 

8       WPI  JOURNAL 


other  alumni  and  friends  like  him. 

Today,  Perreault  is  President  and  Trea- 
surer of  Falls  Machine  Screw  Company 
Inc.,  of  Chicopee,  Massachusetts.  He  has 
been  with  the  company  for  45  of  its  46 
years.  He  also  serves  as  a  WPI  trustee. 

Arthur  E.  Smith  '33 

Prior  to  his  retirement  in  1973,  Arthur  E. 
Smith  was  one  of  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft's key  movers.  It  was  Smith  who 
served  as  chief  engineer  of  P&W's 
25,000-employee  Kansas  City,  MO,  facil- 
ity from  1942  to  1944,  during  the  height  of 
the  war  effort.  He  was  only  31  when  he 
took  on  that  responsibility.  He  later  rose 
through  the  ranks  to  become  president  of 
United  Aircraft  (now  United  Technolo- 
gies) Corporation  in  1968  and  was  named 
its  chairman  in  1972. 

Arthur  Smith  was  one  of  the  early  mem- 
bers of  Professor  Kenneth  Merriam's  Aero 
Elective  Program  for  top  students  in 
mechanical  engineering.  As  these  young 
men  studied  the  design  of  engines,  probed 
the  mysteries  of  flight  and  speculated  on 
the  future  of  the  emerging  aircraft  indus- 
try, they  developed  a  pioneering  spirit 
which  has  typified  Smith  throughout  his 
bright  career.  His  son  David  was  also 
graduated  from  the  Institute,  in  1962. 

Smith  holds  the  prestigious  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award  for  professional  achieve- 
ment, the  highest  prize  given  an  alumnus 
by  the  Institute,  as  well  as  an  honorary 
Doctor  of  Engineering  degree  and  the  Her- 
bert F.  Taylor  Award  for  service  to  the 
college.  In  addition,  he  served  with  dis- 
tinction on  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees 
from  1975  to  1980. 

At  the  Washburn  Shops  rededication  on 
October  20,  1984,  WPI  named  the 
Washburn  Materials  Processing  Labora- 
tory in  honor  of  one  of  its  preeminent 
graduates,  a  pioneer  in  his  own  right, 
Arthur  E.  Smith  '33.  A  major  contribution 
from  United  Technologies  helped  to  make 
possible  this  new  laboratory. 

United  States  Steel  Corporation 

Both  WPI  and  U.S.  Steel  can  trace  their 
roots  to  the  inquiring  mind  and  boundless 
energy  of  Ichabod  Washburn,  inventor, 
manufacturer  and  in  later  life  proprietor  of 
the  world's  largest  wire  mill,  part  of  an 
industry  he  revolutionized.  He  invented 
machinery  for  making  piano  and  hoop 
wire,  developed  a  continuous  hardening 
and  tempering  process,  and  built  the  first 
continuous  wire-rod  rolling  mill  in  Amer- 
ica. In  1884,  his  company,  Washburn  & 
Moen,  joined  other  wire  makers  in  orga- 
nizing the   American  Wire  and  Cable 


Company.  The  firm  was  one  of  the  princi- 
pals in  the  Andrew  Carnegie-led  formation 
of  U.S.  Steel  in  1901. 

It  was  at  Washburn  &  Moen  that  Harry 
G.  Stoddard  got  his  start  in  business,  join- 
ing the  company  in  1886.  Stoddard  would 
go  on  to  become  general  manager  of  the 
company  and,  later  in  his  career,  president 
and  chairman  of  Wyman-Gordon  Com- 
pany and  co-owner  of  the  Worcester  Tele- 
gram &  Gazette  Inc. 

American  Steel  and  Wire  established  the 
U.S.  Steel  Industrial  Scholarship  in  1920, 
and  the  U.S.  Steel  Graduate  Student  Loan 
Fund  in  1979.  Most  recently,  a  major  con- 
tribution from  U.S.  Steel  supported  con- 
struction of  a  Washburn  machine  shop. 

Wyman-Gordon  Company 

In  1883,  H.  Winfield  Wyman  '82  and 
Lyman  F.  Gordon  '81  opened  Worcester's 
first  forging  shop  to  produce  shaped  metal 
parts.  As  the  Industrial  Revolution  gath- 
ered steam  in  the  1880s,  the  demands  of 
competition  called  for  metallic  strength, 
durability,  speed,  weight  and  lowered 
cost.  For  all  these  requirements,  forging 
was  often  the  perfect  solution. 

It  was  the  transportation  industry— 
largely  railroads  and  later  automobiles  and 
aircraft— that  gave  Wyman  and  Gordon 
their  first  real  opportunities.  With  the  help 
of  the  inventive  George  Fuller.  W-G  was 
responsible  for  many  breakthroughs  in 
hardening  and  tempering  steel.  Today  W- 
G  conducts  on-going  metals  research  sec- 
ond to  none  and  is  the  world's  leading  sup- 
plier of  forgings  for  defense  and  space 
applications  as  well  as  for  agricultural  and 
other  civilian  equipment  manufacturing. 
Currently,  the  company  employs  more 
than  50  WPI  graduates. 

Since  1920,  Wyman-Gordon,  through 
the  company  itself,  the  Wyman-Gordon 
Foundation  and.  indirectly,  the  George  F. 
and  Sybil  H.  Fuller  Foundation,  has  been 
among  the  Institute's  most  generous  bene- 
factors and  most  recently  has  made  a  sig- 


nificant contribution  to  the  Washburn  proj- 
ect. 

In  addition,  the  Stoddard  family,  a  name 
tied  for  all  times  to  Wyman-Gordon  Com- 
pany and  to  WPI.  has  given  major  support 
for  construction  of  WPI's  Stoddard  Resi- 
dence and  is  responsible  for  the  Stoddard 
Professorship  in  Management.  The  com- 
pany's current  president,  J.  Richard  Bul- 
lock, serves  on  WPI's  Board  of  Trustees. 
In  December  1984,  Robert  Stoddard  (son 
of  Harry  G.  Stoddard),  former  president 
and  chairman  of  W-G,  chairman  of  the 
Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette  Inc.,  and  a 
WPI  trustee  emeritus,  died.  His  obituary 
appears  on  page  55 . 

Additional  Names  in  the  Washburn 
Story 

For  nearly  25  years  the  Lufkin  Trust  has 
been  one  of  WPI's  most  generous  benefac- 
tors. In  all  cases,  the  fund  has  designated 
that  its  grants  be  used  by  mechanical  engi- 
neering programs  at  WPI  for  the  support 
of  students  pursuing  studies  having  a  close 
relationship  to  machinery  and  mechanics. 

Augat  Corporation  has  generously  sup- 
ported construction  and  equipping  of 
Washburn's  new  X-ray  diffraction  labora- 
tory. Additional  lab  space  has  been  made 
possible  by  the  Class  of  1943. 

A  contribution  from  Francis  C.  Swallow 
'17  has  funded  a  computer  lab  for  student 
use,  while  Allen  M.  Mintz  '48  has  given  a 
generous  gift  for  Washburn's  new  metal- 
lography laboratory.  The  Class  of  1944, 
through  its  40th  Reunion  gift,  has  sup- 
ported construction  of  seminar  space,  and 
a  generous  contribution  from  Stanley  C. 
Olsen  has  helped  create  a  student  lounge  in 
the  Shops.  Additional  support  has  come 
from  the  Class  of  1983  and  other  sources. 

The  college  welcomes  and  is  most 
appreciative  of  the  support  of  these  indi- 
viduals and  organizations. 

By  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.  '45,  Michael  Shan- 
ley  and  Kenneth  McDonnell 


J 


Veteran  mechanical-laboratory  technician  Joe  Gale  in  one  of  Washburn  's  new  machine 
shops. 


FEBRUARY  1985 


Other 

Washburn 

Connections 


George  F  Fuller,  1896-1962. 


Robert  W.  Stoddard,  1906-1984. 


i    Dr.  Thomas  C.  Mendenhall  II,  grandson  and 
namesake  ofWPI's  third  president. 


Four  generations  of  the  Morgan  family— Charles  H. ,  Paul  B.  '90,  Philip  M.  and  Paul 
S.—have  served  on  the  WP1  Board  of  Trustees  through  much  of  the  Institute 's  history. 


One  of  eight  machining  models  for  indi- 
vidual student  use.  Significant  funding 
came  from  Mrs.  David  Bailey,  in  memory 
of  her  husband,  '25;  C.  John  Lindegren 
'39;  Edward  G.  Perkins  '72  and  Mrs. 
Jacob  Perkins;  Raymond  J.  Perreault 
'38;  Rexnord  Inc. ;  and  the  Class  of  1959. 


The  Milton  P.  Higgins  lecture  hall,  a  110-  sea. 


S'JT&v.-fc'l 


The  Manufacturing  Engineering  Applica- 
tions Center  (ME AC)  works  with  compa- 
nies—such as  Emhart  Corp. ,  instrumental 
in  its  establishment  in  1980— to  apply 
robotics  and  flexible  automation  to  indus- 
trial problems. 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


The  Building 
at  Work 


■ 

I 


) 


77?e  "common  area  "  of  the  main  machine  shops  contains 
specialized  equipment  to  complement  that  in  the  machining 
modules.  Major  support  from  Raymond  J.  Perreault  '38  and  the 
L.  S.  Starrett  Company  helped  underwrite  the  center. 


A  Class  of  1959  gift  provided  funding  for  Washburn  's  machine 
shop  demonstration  room,  which  contains  equipment  identical  to 
that  of  the  eight  machining  modules. 


facility  built  above  the  old  welding  shop. 


Located  in  the  Arthur  E.  Smith  '33  Mate- 

%   rials  Processing  Laboratory,  this  Instron  \ 

I   servohydraulic,  computer-controlled,  A  Computer  Science  Department  labora- 

|   mechanical  testing  system  evaluates  the  tory,  with  no  fewer  than  25  terminals,  is 

*   tension,  compression,  fatigue  and  fracture  located  in  newly  created  Washburn  space. 

characteristics  of  metals,  ceramics,  plas-  Class  of  1958  contributions  helped  fund 

tics  and  other  composites.  this  lab. 


These  electron  microscopes  were  gifts  of  the  Lufkin  Trust  and  the 

Wyman-Gordon  Foundation.  A  Class  of  1944  gift  helped  finance 

construction  of  the  laboratory,  structurally  isolated  from  the  rest  Funding  from  the  Ellsworth  Foundation  helped  support  construc- 

of  Washburn  to  eliminate  outside  vibrations.  tion  of  Management 's  departmental  offices. 


FEBRUARY  1985        11 


Mendenhall: 
The  Place,  the  Moment, 

the  Man 


Thomas  C.  Mendenhall  was  WPI's 
third  president,  from  1894-1901.  It 
was  Mendenhall  who  as  president 
found  himself  grappling  with  controversy 
surrounding  the  propriety  of  a  commercial 
Washburn  Shops— and  the  successful 
enterprise  the  Shops  had  become.  He  was 
well  suited  to  the  task. 

Those  were  tumultuous  times  for  WPI 
and  for  science  and  technology  as  well,  as 
Mendenhall's  grandson.  Dr.  Thomas  C. 
Mendenhall  II.  recounted  before  a  Wash- 
burn rededication  audience  in  October. 

"History."  he  began,  "is  full  of  coinci- 
dences as  well  as  changes.  The  place,  the 
moment,  the  man  so  frequently  come 
together  to  produce  interesting,  exciting, 
tension-full  occasions. '" 

What  follows  are  excerpts  from  Dr. 
Mendenhall's  unforgettable  keynote 
address. 

The  Place: 

By  1882.  the  Shops  had  been  making  more 
than  S33.000  a  year  for  the  college.  The 
hydraulic  elevator  developed  here  was 
threatening  to  raise  the  whole  institution 
right  off  the  map  and  into  big  business. 
Which  is  ultimately  where  Milton  Hig- 
gins'  elevator  went.  I  guess,  under  the 
Otis*. 

The  Shops  was  causing  increased  con- 
cern among  many  of  the  faculty,  and  trust- 
ees and  many  even  in  the  community.  The 
trustees  were  split  over  the  question,  but 
when  50  graduates  were  polled.  "Do  you 
think  the  commercial  Shops  should  be 
continued?"  they  bellowed  unanimously, 
"Of  course!" 

The  Moment: 

The  last  half  of  the  19th  century  witnessed 
an  extraordinary  outburst  of  activity  in 
pure  and  applied  science— Darwin's  trea- 
tise in  1854  on  the  origin  of  the  species. 
Gramme's  dynamo  in  1869.  Maxwell's 
work  on  electricity  and  magneticism  in 


Thomas  C.  Mendenhall,  WPI's  third  pres- 
ident, had  to  resolve  the  controversy  over 
the  Washburn  Shops  '  commercial  interests. 

1873  and  later  his  book  on  the  theory  of 
heat.  Rayleigh's  book  on  the  theory  of 
sound,  the  Philadelphia  Centennial  Expo- 
sition of  1876.  All  the  while.  Worcester 
was  booming.  Seven  railroads  served  the 
city. 

The  Man: 

He  was  born  in  1841  in  eastern  Ohio  of 
Quaker  stock.  Quakers,  as  you  know, 
were  not  in  those  days  quite  as  socially 
obliging  as  they  may  be  today.  They  ran 
up  and  down  the  streets  literally  quaking, 
which  could  stop  a  good  deal  of  traffic. 
Which  may  be  why  the  English  were  glad 
to  get  rid  of  us. 

He  had  an  early  interest  in  science.  One 
time,  for  instance,  his  father,  a  farmer, 
sold  a  cow  to  a  neighbor  25  miles  away, 
and  young  Tom  was  given  the  job  of  lead- 
ing the  cow  to  the  new  owner,  where  he 
spent  the  night.  While  there  he  noticed 
some  books,  one  being  a  Euclid's  geome- 


try text.  "What  are  you  giving  me  for  driv- 
ing the  cow  over  here?"  Tom  asked  the 
farmer.  "One  dollar."  "How  much  is  that 
geometry  book?"  "One  dollar"— quite  a 
sacrifice,  because  he  had  25  miles  to  go 
back. 

He  was  also  interested  at  an  early  age  in 
teaching— he  got  his  first  teaching  certifi- 
cate to  teach  in  a  local  school  which  he  had 
just  finished,  at  the  age  of  16.  At  the  age 
of  17  he  was  assistant  principal  in  the  vil- 
lage school— at  S90  a  year. 

In  1873.  TCM  was  appointed  the  first 
professor  of  physics  and  mechanics  at 
Ohio  State  University.  He  was  keen 
always  to  get  money  for  books  and  equip- 
ment for  his  laboratories.  One  time,  when 
he  didn't  have  proper  equipment,  he  bor- 
rowed a  carpenter's  lunchpail  to  use  as  a 
pendulum  in  a  physics  experiment. 

He  was  quite  interested  in  weather  as 
well.  You  and  I  just  click  on  the  radio  with 
its  marvelous  weather  reports.  Grandfa- 
ther was  instrumental  in  setting  up  a  series 
of  weather  stations  across  Ohio  and  even- 
tually, across  the  country.  He  had  the  inge- 
nious idea  of  putting  the  latest  weather 
information  on  the  sides  of  railroad  cars: 
"rain  tomorrow"  or  "18  inches  of  snow" 
or  something  like  that. 

In  1886.  TCM  went  to  Rose  Polytechnic 
Institute  in  Terre  Haute.  Indiana,  as  its 
second  president.  The  founder  and  first 
president  was  Charles  O.  Thompson,  who 
had  been  WPI's  first  president  as  well. 
Thompson  had  modeled  Rose  after  Wor- 
cester Tech. 

Three  years  later  TCM  left  Rose  to  head 
the  Coast  and  Geodetic  Survey  to  map  the 
whole  country.  He  also  worked  to  make 
the  Alaska-Canada  boundary  line  more 
precise,  more  exact.  Those  of  you  who 
have  been  to  Alaska— you'll  find  there  the 
Mendenhall  Glacier,  a  rather  handsome 
great  bit  of  ice.  I  get  about  four  postcards  a 
summer  always  asking  a  rather  unflatter- 
ing "Is  this  you?" 


12       WPI  JOURNAL 


W'  hy  did  Worcester  hire  him?  I  sup- 
pose institutions  always  want  to 
attract  distinguished  people  for 
president.  He  was  one  of  the  first  members 
of  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences,  and 
as  a  teacher  he  was  in  great  demand  as  a 
lecturer.  Maybe  they  thought  they  needed 
some  changes  made.  Maybe  they  figured 
this  was  the  man  to  do  it. 

Why  did  he  accept?  He'd  been  through 
change  once  at  Rose,  liberalizing  the  cur- 
riculum and  reducing  the  importance  of 
shop  practice.  Well.  I  think  he  saw  Wor- 
cester as  a  challenge,  and  he  knew  he 
wanted  to  leave  the  government  service 
because  of  the  patronage  hassle. 

His  initial  question  at  Worcester  was, 
"Are  we  one  institution  with  several 
branches  or  are  we  two  institutions?"  And 
by  1 896  he  had  worked  out  his  own  resolu- 
tion of  this  situation. 

"The  only  reason  for  the  existence  of 
the  Shops."  he  wrote,  "is  the  educational 
value  of  the  training  which  they  may 
give."  And.  "A  very  important  part  of  an 
engineer's  education  is  the  acquisition  of  a 
familiarity  with  the  best  methods  of  shop 
management." 

"There's  another  class  of  work  which  is 
in  every  way  suited  to  a  school  machine 
shop  and  which  should  be  sought  for  con- 
tinually: the  making  of  special  machines, 
models,  apparatus,  instruments  .  .  .  and 
the  like." 

As  his  grandson  and  namesake  I  was 
ZAsummoned  to  stay  with  TCM  for 
L  JL  about  two  weeks  after  he  retired  in 
1901 .  Every  morning  I  was  given  a  list  of 
arithmetic  problems  and  I  had  to  solve 
them  by  suppertime.  He  had  an  enormous 
shop  in  which  he  was  always  doing  all 
kinds  of  things.  He  took  the  temperature 
morning  and  noon  and  night  all  his  life. 

My  wife  discovered  some  years  ago  a 
lovely  document  in  my  grandfather's 
handwriting,  dated  1912.  It's  called 
"Rejoicing." 

"I  rejoice  in  the  love  and  companion- 
ship of  my  wife  for  over  40  years  of  our 
happy  marriage. 

I  rejoice  in  my  son  and  his  work  as  a 
scientist  and  physicist. 

I  rejoice  in  my  many  friends,  students 
and  colleagues  with  whom  I  have  enjoyed 
working  and  friendship  over  the  years. 

But  at  this  particular  moment  I  rejoice 
most  of  all  in  the  fact  that  I  am  not  and 
never  have  been  a  member  of  the  National 
Education  Association. 

Thomas  C.   Mendenhall  II  is  president 
emeritus  of  Smith  College. 


=  A  ME  AC  teaching 

J  robot  seems  to  have 

J  captured  this  little  visi- 

5  tor's  attention. 


r 

m  c-~                    mr 

VSry'l 

■1     b^  lil 

■■ 

^^B        H 

-w&m:''" 

/  j     k!8 

^m     lf^^ 

S  1  vval  1                   B  i 

More  scenes  from  rededication  day:  Dr.  George  Hazzard  (top.  left).  WP I  president 
emeritus;  Dr.  Thotnas  C.  Mendenhall  II.  president  emeritus  of  Smith  College,  who  gave 
a  talk  on  his  grandfather 's  WPl presidency;  and  Dr.  Edmund  T.  C ranch,  president  of 
WPI.  At  the  open  house  (above)  of  the  restored  Washburn  Shops,  a  student  demonstrates 
the  capabilities  of  a  General  Electric  industrial  robot  in  the  Manufacturing  Engineering 
Applications  Center  (MEAC). 


FEBRUARY  1985        13 


By  Michael  Shanley 


It's  1960  and  your  hair  is  short.  You 
wear  white  socks  and  loafers.  John  F. 
Kennedy  has  just  been  elected  Presi- 
dent, and  scientists  are  excited  about  a 
new  discovery  called  the  laser  beam. 
Hitchcock's  Psycho  is  packing  the  movie 
theatres.  Arnold  Palmer  has  won  both  the 
Masters  Tournament  and  the  U.S.  Open, 
each  time  with  a  come-from-behind 
charge.  Floyd  Patterson  has  KO'd  Inge- 
mar  Johansson  to  regain  the  heavyweight 
championship  of  the  world. 

You're  one  of  the  1.100  young  men 
enrolled  at  Worcester  Tech.  On  campus, 
Morgan  and  Olin  halls  have  just  been 
built.  Harrington  Auditorium.  Goddard 
Hall.  Gordon  Library  and  the  Wedge  don't 
exist.  Nor  do  Stoddard,  Ellsworth  or 
Fuller  residences.  Tuition  is  $1,300  per 
year,  room  and  board  another  S730. 

Regardless  of  what  your  major  is.  you'll 
take  composition  and  reading  during  your 
freshman  year.  Sophomore  year  means 
U.S.  and  world  history.  You'll  take  a 
semester  of  political  science  in  your  junior 
year.  As  a  senior,  you  may  take  a  humani- 
ties elective,  of  which  there  are  five  to 
choose  from. 

You  might  consider  the  humanities  to  be 
a  waste  of  time.  All  those  names  and 
dates— who  needs  them.  And  anyway, 
what's  Shakespeare  to  an  engineer? 


lenty  has  changed  in  25  years.  The 
world  is  a  different  place.  So  is  WPI. 
And  so  is  the  Humanities  Depart- 


P 

ment. 

The  1960  scenario  is  representative  of 
the  role  humanities  played  for  decades  at 
WPI:  a  few  English  and  history  survey 
courses,  little  of  anything  else. 

"Humanities  courses  here  were  always 
very  structured,"  notes  Dean  of  Under- 
graduate Studies  William  R.  Grogan  '46. 
"Students  didn't  take  them  seriously  and 
neither  did  the  faculty,  for  the  most  part." 

If  the  humanities  didn't  get  a  great  deal 
of  respect,  it  was  no  reflection  on  the 
department's  faculty  or  on  the  school 
itself.  It  was  more  just  a  product  of  the 
times. 

"The  department  had  a  different  func- 
tion entirely  then,"  recalls  Donald  E. 
Johnson,  Professor  Emeritus  of  History 
and  former  Humanities  Department  head. 
When  he  began  his  career  at  WPI  in  1946, 
he  says,  "Our  role  was  a  secondary  one, 
as  a  service  department." 

While  it  would  be  unfair  in  many  ways 


Shakespeare  and 
the  Engineer 

The  humanities,  once  the  poor  cousins  of  the  science 
and  engineering  disciplines  at  WPI,  now  stand 
straight  and  proud. 


to  compare  the  old  Humanities  Depart- 
ment with  the  new,  there  is  no  denying  the 
massive  transformation  in  both  theory  and 
structure. 

Now,  under  the  degree  requirement 
known  as  the  Humanities  Sufficiency,* 
students  choose  a  topic  of  interest,  take 
five  or  more  related  courses  and  then  com- 
plete a  final  independent  study  project. 
The  Sufficiency  may  be  limited  to  a  single 
discipline— American  literature  or  Eastern 
philosophy,  for  example— or  it  may 
involve  several  disciplines— perhaps  the 
history,  literature  and  philosophy  of  a  par- 
ticular period.  In  either  case,  the  final 
project  examines  a  single  theme. 

The  possibilities  for  the  Sufficiency  are 
limitless,  the  topics  as  varied  as  the  stu- 
dents themselves.  "A  Parallel  Between 
Othello  and  the  Passion  of  Christ," 
"Remaining  Human  in  the  Modern 
World,"  and  "An  Analysis  of  Wagner's 
Lohengrin"  are  a  few  examples. 

The  catalyst  for  this  restructuring  was, 
of  course,  the  WPI  Plan,  put  into  place  in 
the  early  1970s.  But  for  some  time  before 
the  Plan,  a  handful  of  outspoken  faculty 
members  had  been  urging  a  greater 
emphasis  on  the  humanities.  "These  boys 
have  to  make  a  life  as  well  as  a  living," 
English  Department  head  Edwin  Higgin- 
bottom  would  say.  "It's  the  old  story  all 
over  again— if  your  son  asks  for  bread,  do 
you  give  him  a  stone?" 

In  the  mid  1960s,  the  curriculum  com- 
mittee, chaired  by  Dean  Grogan,  then  a 
Professor  of  Electrical  Engineering,  tried 
to  offer  a  little  more  in  the  way  of  bread.  A 
bachelor  of  science  degree  in  Humanities 
and  Technology  was  established,  and  elec- 
tives  were  added.  "Those  changes,  while 
not  sweeping,  may  have  had  the  effect  of 


pulling  the  plug  out  of  the  bottle,  letting 
the  genie  loose,"  says  Professor  Johnson. 

It  was  the  planning  committee,  how- 
ever, that  truly  elevated  the  humanities  to 
first-class  status.  When  these  Plan  archi- 
tects made  the  Sufficiency  one  of  four 
degree  requirements,  they  removed  any 
doubt  about  the  importance  of  the  liberal 
arts  at  WPI. 

"Basically,  there  are  two  schools  of 
thought  about  humanities  and  the  engi- 
neer," says  Grogan.  "One  argument  holds 
that  a  student  should  get  a  little  bit  of 
everything,  which  means  required  survey 
courses.  The  second  argument— the  one 
we  ultimately  embraced— says  that  it's  bet- 
ter to  master  one  area  than  get  a  superficial 
sprinkling  of  many." 

And  what  of  the  argument  that  a  student 
can  go  through  four  years  here  and  never 
study  Plato  or  Aristotle,  Homer  or  Shake- 
speare, the  great  events  of  history  and  reli- 
gion? 

Humanities  Department  head  Jo  Ann 
Manfra  fields  that  one.  "In  the  best  of  all 
possible  worlds.  I  would  want  students  to 
study  more  liberal  arts.  But  we  don't  have 
that  option.  What  we  try  to  do  is  give  them 
quality  and  encourage  lifelong  learning. 
Our  goal  is  to  introduce  a  critical  thought 
process  that  will  carry  over  into  their  other 
work.  We  want  the  students  to  understand 
ambiguity,  complexity  and  nuance. 
Things  aren't  just  black  and  white— in 
engineering  or  the  liberal  arts— and  that's  a 
point  we  want  to  get  across." 


*The  term  is  derived  from  the  concept  that 
students  will  develop  "sufficient"  under- 
standing of  an  area  of  the  humanities  to 
engender  a  lifelong  interest  in  that  area. 


14       WPI  JOURNAL 


;  vmtk 

| 

k 

Perhaps  the  Department 's  most  impressive  growth  has  taken  place  within  the  philosophy-religion-ethics  area.  These  once  neglected 
subjects  are  now  a  vital  part  of  the  curriculum.  Assistant  Professor  of  Religion  Ruth  L.  Smith,  Associate  Professor  of  Philosophy  Iris 
M.  Young,  and  Assistant  Professor  of  Philosophy  Roger  S.  Gottlieb   (left  to  right)— all  relative  newcomers— are  active  researchers 
whose  broad  interests  give  students  a  wide  range  of  courses  and  projects  to  choose  from. 


In  the  years  following  approval  of  the 
Plan,  the  Department  of  History  and  For- 
eign Language  and  the  Department  of 
English  (there  was,  as  yet,  no  combined 
Humanities  Department),  like  the  others 
on  campus,  were  faced  with  a  staggering 
amount  of  work.  New  courses  had  to  be 
developed,  and  old  courses  had  to  be 
adapted  to  the  seven-week  term.  Clear 
standards  for  student  work  in  interdiscipli- 
nary areas  involving  the  humanities  also 
had  to  be  established. 

Help  in  those  early  years  came  in  the 
form  of  grants  from  the  National  Endow- 
ment for  the  Humanities  (NEH),  the 
Andrew  W.  Mellon  Foundation  and  the 
Rockefeller  Foundation. 

"Those  grants  were  invaluable,"  says 
Professor  Johnson.  "So  much  time  had  to 
be  spent  on  curriculum  planning  and 


development.  It  was  a  huge  task." 

In  the  mid-1970s,  as  the  liberal  arts  at 
WPI  grew,  an  administrative  decision  was 
made  to  unite  the  various  disciplines  under 
a  single  umbrella;  the  Humanities  Depart- 
ment was  officially  created.  "It  was  sim- 
ply a  logical  step,"  says  Professor  John- 
son, who  served  as  head  of  the  department 
until  his  retirement  in  1983. 


W'hat  might  surprise  those  with  a 
timeworn  view  of  engineering 
schools  is  the  healthy  state  of  the 
performing  arts  at  WPI.  Musical  groups 
abound— the  Brass  Choir,  the  WPI  Band, 
the  Jazz  and  Woodwind  Ensembles,  the 
Poly  tones  and  the  Stage  Band.  Students 
interested  in  music  can  choose  from  a  vari- 
ety of  classroom  and  performance  offer- 


The  lone  figure  in  the  foreign  languages  is  Lieselotte  Z.  Anderson,  lecturer  in  German. 
She  teaches  ten  or  more  sections  per  year,  accommodating  both  the  beginner  and  the 
advanced  student.  Those  interested  in  other  foreign  languages  can  make  arrangements 
to  study  at  another  of  Worcester 's  colleges. 


ings.  Assistant  Professor  of  Music  Louis 
J.  Curran,  Jr.,  has  for  years  taken  the 
Men's  Chorus  on  tours  to  Europe,  Canada 
and  the  West  Coast. 

The  theatre  program,  begun  in  the  1960s 
by  Professor  of  English  Edmund  M. 
Hayes,  has  grown  by  leaps  and  bounds. 
Susan  Vick,  assistant  professor  of  Drama- 
Theatre  since  1981,  now  directs  the  pro- 
duction of  one  major  play  each  fall  and 
works  with  Masque,  the  student  theatre 
group,  on  a  production  each  spring.  Last 
fall's  production  of  "You  Can't  Take  It 
With  You"  featured  Associate  Professor 
of  English  Charles  Heventhal  in  a  leading 
role.  Heventhal.  who  as  a  member  of  the 
planning  committee  was  instrumental  in 
molding  the  Humanities  Sufficiency,  has 
also  played  the  title  role  in  Brecht's 
"Galileo." 

Also  in  the  spring.  Professor  Vick  over- 
sees "New  Voices,"  a  week  of  plays, 
dance  and  music  written  and/or  performed 
by  students. 

Professor  of  Music  David  P.  McKay  and 
Associate  Professor  of  English  Kent 
Ljungquist  have  produced  two  operas 
based  on  literary  works:  Charlotte  Perkins 
Gillman's  "The  Yellow  Wallpaper"  and 
Edgar  Allen  Poe's  "The  Devil  in  the 
Belfry."  In  both  cases.  McKay  wrote  the 
music,  and  Ljungquist  adapted  the  text. 
The  operas  were  performed  on  campus  at 
the  Higgins  House.  Professor  McKay  has 
also  composed  a  number  of  original 
works,  conducted  music  on  four  albums 
and  co-authored  a  prize-winning  book. 
Ljungquist,  co-editor  of  the  national  Edgar 
Allen  Poe  newsletter,  will  have  a  book 
about  Poe  published  this  spring. 

Today,  the  Humanities  Department  is 
second  in  size  only  to  Electrical  Engineer- 


FEBRUARY  1985        15 


JO  ANN  MANFRA: 
LAWYER,  LEADER, 
LEARNER 


There  were  those  who  told  her  she  was 
crazy  to  get  a  law  degree— she  didn't  need 
it.  Crazy,  too,  to  accept  the  chairmanship 
of  the  Humanities  Department— she  didn't 
need  that  either,  they  said. 

But  they  understood  little  about  this 
determined,  energetic  woman  who  earned 
not  one  but  two  law  degrees  (from  Suffolk 
University  and  Harvard  University  law 
schools)  while  carrying  a  full-time  teach- 
ing load,  who  accepted  the  five-year 
appointment  as  head  of  the  second  largest 
department  on  campus,  and  who  loves  it. 

"When  I  walk  into  the  office,"  says  Jo 
Ann  Manfra,  "I  never  know  what's  going 
to  happen.  The  faculty  is  so  active  they 
exhaust  me.  It's  a  good  kind  of  exhaus- 
tion, though.  They're  constantly  on  the 
move— dynamic,  committed."  Words 
which  well  describe  Professor  Manfra  her- 
self. 

"I  operate  better  in  an  invigorating  envi- 
ronment," says  Manfra,  a  graduate  of 
State  University  of  New  York  (SUNY)  at 
Cortland  and  the  University  of  Iowa.  "The 
Mellon  grant  and  other  new  things  have 
given  me  a  shot  of  adrenaline.  It's  an 
exciting  time." 

She  cautions,  however,  that  require- 
ments for  a  department  head  include  "a 
good  sense  of  humor  and  the  ability  to  step 
back  from  it  all." 

One  of  Professor  Manfra 's  own  re- 
search interests  is  19th-century  American 
Catholicism.  The  author  of  several  artic- 
les, she  is  working  on  a  manuscript  enti- 
tled "Bishops  of  the  Republic:  The  Mak- 
ing of  An  American  Catholic  Hierarchy, 
1789-1851." 

Professor   Manfra  just   had   another 


article— "Serial  Marriage  and  the  Origins 
of  the  Black  Stepfamily:  The  Rowanty 
Evidence"— accepted  for  publication  in 
the  prestigious  Journal  of  American  His- 
tory: Co-author  of  the  article  is  Robert  R. 
Dykstra,  Professor  of  History  and  Public 
Policy  at  SUNY  at  Albany,  who  also  hap- 
pens to  be  Manfra 's  husband. 

The  commuting  marriage  works  out 
pretty  well,  Manfra  says,  since  her  hus- 
band has  arranged  his  schedule  so  that  he 
spends  three  days  a  week  in  Albany  and 
four  days  in  Worcester. 

Over  the  years  Manfra  has  been  an 
active  participant  in  the  campus  commu- 
nity, serving  on  virtually  all  the  major  aca- 
demic committees.  In  1980  she  was  fac- 
ulty advisor  at  the  Washington  D.C. 
Project  Center. 

A  member  of  the  Massachusetts  Bar  and 
the  U.S.  District  Bar,  she  is  consultant  to 
the  Legal  Systems  and  Law  Enforcement 
IQP  area  and  advises  student  projects  that 
examine  and  evaluate  the  legal  process. 

Despite  all  this  activity,  she  says,  "I 
never  feel  like  I've  done  it  all.  There's 
always  more  to  do." 


ing.  In  quality,  the  faculty  can  hold  its  own 
not  just  among  engineering  colleges,  but 
among  comparably-sized  liberal  arts  col- 
leges as  well.  The  20  full-time  tenure  track 
and  10  part-time  or  visiting  faculty  are  an 
active  group.  Virtually  all  are  engaged  in 
research  in  their  respective  fields. 

Associate  Professor  of  History  Peter  S. 
Onuf,  for  example,  last  year  was  awarded 
a  long-term  fellowship  at  Worcester's 
American  Antiquarian  Society  (AAS). 
This  distinguished   national   award  was 


financed  by  the  NEH.  Professor  of 
English  Lance  E.  Schachterle  is  an  AAS 
research  associate  working  on  an  edition 
of  James  Fenimore  Cooper's  The  Spy.  For 
years  he  has  worked  as  an  editor  on  NEH- 
financed  research  to  produce  the  definitive 
series  of  Cooper  texts . 

Professor  of  Religion  and  Social  Ethics 
Thomas  A.  Shannon  is  a  nationally  recog- 
nized expert  in  the  field  of  ethics.  The 
author  or  editor  of  six  books,  he  has  lec- 
tured widely  and  has  been  featured  in 


newspaper  articles  and  on  radio  and  televi- 
sion shows.  He  co-edited  with  JoAnn 
Manfra  Law  and  Bioethics,  a  book  on  the 
major  court  decisions  in  that  field. 

Professor  of  History  John  F.  Zeugner 
has  twice  been  awarded  fellowships  to 
teach  at  universities  in  Japan.  An  out- 
spoken critic  of  Japanese  higher  educa- 
tion, his  articles  on  the  subject  have 
appeared  in  the  New  York  Times  and 
Change  magazine.  He  has  also  published 
as  both  an  historian  and  a  fiction  writer. 

Deborah  M.  Valenze.  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor of  history,  will  have  a  book  pub- 
lished this  fall  on  popular  religion  and 
female  preaching  in  industrial  England. 

Because  the  history  of  science  and  tech- 
nology is  particularly  germane  to  a  college 
like  WPI,  the  Humanities  Department  has 
two  specialists  in  that  area.  Professor  of 
History  Michael  M.  Sokal,  a  nationally 
acknowledged  expert  on  American  psy- 
chologist James  M.  Cattell,  has  edited  a 
book  of  Catell's  letters.  He  is  working  on 
what  will  be  the  definitive  biography  of 
the  man  and  recently  received  a  major 
NEH  grant  to  complete  the  work.  Sokal 
has  also  written  several  book  chapters  in 
the  fields  of  the  history  of  science  and 
technology,  psychological  testing  and  the 
history  of  psychology. 

Associate  Professor  of  History  E. 
Malcolm  Parkinson  specializes  in  the  his- 
tory of  European  science  and  technology. 
He  has  published  widely,  with  particular 
interest  in  jousting  and  the  medieval  tour- 
nament. Last  fall  he  took  a  sabbatical  from 
WPI  to  become  a  visiting  scholar  at  New 
York  University,  joining  15  other  scholars 
of  medieval  culture  in  a  seminar  program 
funded  by  the  Mellon  Foundation. 

Despite  all  the  professional  activity 
within  the  department,  Professor  Manfra 
sees  no  indication  of  what  educator  Clark 
Kerr  called  "the  cruel  paradox  that  a  supe- 
rior faculty  results  in  an  inferior  concern 
for  undergraduate  teaching." 

"Professional  development  can't  help 
but  improve  your  teaching,"  she  says. 
"What  is  a  college  for  if  not  to  be  on  the 
cutting  edge  of  knowledge?  That  means 
students  and  faculty.  As  for  undergraduate 
education,  commitment  to  teaching  is  a 
given." 


If  a  great  deal  has  been  accomplished  in 
the  humanities,  there  is  more  to  be 
done.  A  recent  $250,000  grant  from  the 
Mellon  Foundation  represents  a  giant  step 
into  the  future.  First  on  the  list  of  priorities 
is  a  reexamination  of  the  programs  already 
in  place— the  Humanities/Technology  or 


16       WPI  JOURNAL 


Associate  Professor  of  History  James  P.  Hanlan,  co-director  of  the  Living  Museums  pro- 
gram, oversees  the  projects  done  at  Mystic  Seaport  in  Mystic,  CT.  Hanlan  's  varied  pro- 
fessional interests  include  American  labor  history,  social  and  urban  history,  history  of 
the  family,  and  textile  communities  in  New  England. 


Science  major,  concept  courses,  the  Liv- 
ing Museums  Program,  Light  and  Vision 
(a  course  that  examines  how  scientific 
ideas  originate  and  change),  and  the  Writ- 
ing Resources  Center,  which  provides  stu- 
dents with  technical  assistance  in  the 
preparation  of  research  papers. 

In  addition,  the  grant  will  be  used  to 
provide  new  faculty  with  the  time  they 
need  to  explore  interests  in  other  disci- 
plines, and  thereby  better  advise  student 
projects  that  combine  humanities  and  tech- 
nology. 

The  department  also  intends  to  address 


what  many  see  as  a  major  shortcoming  of 
the  program— the  fact  that  most  students 
complete  the  Sufficiency  in  their  sopho- 
more year  and  thereby  end  their  associa- 
tion with  the  Humanities  Department. 

"We'd  like  to  have  them  do  more,"  says 
Professor  Manfra,  "but  given  their  sched- 
ules, that  can  be  tough." 

One  option  is  a  senior  seminar  of  some 
sort,  perhaps  with  an  interdisciplinary 
base.  The  first  step  is  determining  how 
best  to  make  the  seminars  attractive  to  stu- 
dents, who  already  have  a  demanding 
major  course  schedule. 


A  report  issued  last  fall  by  the  National 
Institute  of  Education  cited  a  serious 
Lflaw  in  higher  education:  "The  col- 
lege curriculum  has  become  excessively 
vocational  in  its  orientation."  part  of  the 
problem  being  a  prevailing  belief  that  "the 
best  insurance  in  a  technological  society  is 
a  highly  specialized  education  that  will 
lead  to  a  specific  job." 

The  attitude  may  be  understandable, 
given  the  cost  of  a  college  education  and 
the  intense  competition  in  the  job  market, 
but  many  observers  see  it  as  a  serious 
threat  to  the  fundamental  concept  of  a 
complete  education.  WPI  has  clearly 
defined  its  stand  on  the  issue. 

"We  see  the  humanities  as  a  vital  educa- 
tional experience  in  its  own  right,"  says 
Dean  Grogan.  "Its  application  is  through 
the  development  of  the  individual.  We 
don't  want  to  graduate  people  who  are  just 
technically  qualified.  We  want  to  graduate 
people  who  have  developed  their  intel- 
lect." 

This  theory  harkens  back  to  Professor 
Higginbottom's  bread  versus  stone  remark 
and  the  Shakespeare-engineer  relation- 
ship. The  humanities,  besides  teaching  us 
about  the  world  we  live  in,  teach  us  about 
ourselves— a  subject  well  worth  probing, 
regardless  of  career  goals.  It's  also  a  sub- 
ject from  which  a  lifetime  of  learning  can 
be  culled.  Which  is  one  of  the  reasons  why 
Shakespeare  and  the  engineer  get  along 
quite  well  here  in  Worcester. 

Michael  Shanley  is  Director  of  the  WPI 
News  Bureau. 


PROJECTS  WITH 
PERMANENCE 


One  of  the  IQP  programs  developed 
through  the  Mellon  Foundation  grant  in 
the  mid-1970s  was  the  Living  Museums 
Program,  which  has  evolved  into  an  exten- 
sive project  series. 

The  program  is  directed  by  James  P. 
Hanlan  and  Malcolm  E.  Parkinson,  both 
associate  professors  of  history. 

Students,  usually  guided  by  one  advisor 
from  the  Humanities  Department  and  one 
from  a  science  or  engineering  discipline, 
work  with  the  staff  at  one  of  New 
England's  many  outstanding  museums. 
They  have  access  to  documents  and  arti- 
facts; sometimes  the  projects  culminate  in 
permanent  exhibits. 


Projects  have  been  done  at  the  Mystic 
Seaport  and  Mark  Twain  House  in  Con- 
necticut, Slater  Hill  Historic  Site  in  Rhode 
Island,  and  the  Peabody  Museum,  Higgins 
Armory  Museum,  Worcester  Science  Cen- 
ter, Sturbridge  Village,  Merrimack  Valley 
Textile  Museum,  and  the  Worcester  His- 
torical Museum,  all  in  Massachusetts. 

In  the  photograph  at  left,  a  student 
works  on  a  sailing  simulator,  now  a  fea- 
tured exhibit  at  the  Peabody  Museum  in 
Salem,  MA.  The  finished  product  is  a 
large  model  sailboat  enclosed  in  a  glass 
case,  with  the  actual  mechanism  hidden 
below  the  blue  carpet  "water."  A  museum 
visitor  simply  touches  a  control  and  a 
breeze  begins  to  blow  inside  the  glass 
case.  Then,  by  manipulating  three  con- 
trols—one for  the  rudder,  one  for  the  main- 
sail and  one  for  the  jib  and  staysail— the 
visitor  can  actually  tack,  jibe,  reach  off  the 
wind  or  run  before  the  wind. 


FEBRUARY  1985 


home-coming  (homTuim'ir/),  n.  1.  a 
coming  or  returning  to  one's  home. 

2.  in  many  colleges  and  universities,  an 
annual  celebration  attended  by  alumni. 

3.  at  \VPI  in  1984,  the  kind  of  event  that 
memories  are  made  of. 


and  David  Johnson  '60. 


Yes.  19&4's  edition  was  perhaps  the  most 
ambitious  Homecoming  ever  staged.  But 
the  weather  was  flawless  (for  once),  the 
turnout  was  huge  (with  a  record  attend- 
ance at  WFl's  football  victory  over  Coast 
Guard*,  and  the  sheer  number  and  variety 
of  events  and  programs  provided  nearly 
jne  with  something  to  cheer  about. 

From  the  continental  breakfasts  for 
graduates  in  chemical,  civil,  electrical  and 
mechanical  engineering,  to  the  5-Km  road 
race  (won  by  Bob  Ferrari  '74>.  10  the 
annual  Homecoming  barbeque.  to  Ungat- 
ing (gaining  in  popularity  each  year),  to 
the  annual  rope  pull  (somehow  the  fresh- 
man won—  again ».  to  the  varsity  football. 
soccer  and  field  hockey  games,  to  frater- 
nity dinners  and  parties,  to  the  Athletic 
Hall  of  Fame  induction  and  dinner,  to  the 
alumni  rugby  game,  and  lots,  lots  more- 
well,  you  might  say  Homecoming  '84 
packed  as  much  into  a  weekend  as  b 
humanly  possible. 

One  special  stand-out  was  a  new  alumni 
award,  the  Ichabod  Washburn  prize,  given 
to  three  graduates  in  recognition  of  their 
outstanding  professional  achievement. 
They  are  Barbara  Bain  Gatisor 
Michael  Graham  '74  and  Ronald  Howard 

So  have  a  look,  if  you  please,  at  the 
photographic  record  we've  made  of 
Homecoming  '84  on  these  pages  and 
throughout  die  Class  Notes  section  of  the 
Journal.  And  remember,  it's  not  too  early 
to  start  making  plans  now  for  next  year's 
autumnal  festivities  on  the  Hill. 


wTf  jOL't 


Homecoming  '84  (clockwise  from  below): 
Gordon  Crowther  '37,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Robert  Bierweiler  '43  and  Edwin  Camp- 
bell '43  at  a  reception  for  the  alumni  who 
worked  on  record-setting  1983-84  Alumni 
Fund;  Mrs.  Virginia  Cranch.  a  familiar 
face  at  many  alumni  functions;  Jan  and 
Morgan  "Mo  "  {'61)  Rees.  one  of  WPI s 
greatest-ever  wrestlers,  at  his  induction 
into  the  WPI  Athletic  Hall  ofFcune;  Fred 
Pomeroy  '2  7;  Watty  atui  Theresa  Metcalf 
Caianach,  both  '80.  with  daughter,  Monica. 


A  more  natural  family  portrait  (left)  you  'II 
never  find:  above:  the  agony  of  de-feet. 


FEBRUARY 


Homecoming  '84  (top  to  bottom):  Mela- 
nie  Flynn,  wife  of  Matthew  Flynn  '82, 
shows  off  their  pride  and  joy,  Andrea; 
Robin  Gately  '86,  of  Dorchester,  MA,  in 
the  spirit  of  things;  the  Lambda  Chi 's, 
predicting  gridiron  victory  over  Coast 
Guard. 


Six  to  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 


At  Homecoming  '83,  the  induction  dinner 
for  the  eight  charter  members  of  the  WPI 
Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  virtually  stole  the 
show.  And  at  Homecoming  '84,  in  the 
evening  of  September  22,  six  more  exem- 
plary members  of  the  WPI  family  joined 
the  ranks  of  one  of  the  college's  most 
exclusive  fraternities. 

•  The  late  Ivan  "Pete"  Bigler,  head  foot- 
ball coach,  1923-40;  head  basketball 
coach,  1922-41;  and  head  baseball  coach, 
1922-42;  dedicated  a  significant  portion 
of  his  life  to  WPI  and  its  intercollegiate 
athletic  program.  He  led  WPI  to  more 
football  victories  (42)  than  any  other  coach 
except  Bob  Pritchard  (a  1983  Hall 
inductee).  He  coached  the  Engineers'  first 
(1938)  undefeated  football  season,  as  well 
as  the  second-place  New  England  standing 
of  the  1938-39  basketball  campaign. 

•  Earl  Bloom  '54  was  one  of  the  greatest 
athletes  to  ever  wear  the  Crimson  and 
Gray.  His  15  varsity  letters  are  the  most 
earned  by  any  WPI  athlete.  A  workhorse 
running  back  in  the  1954  undefeated  foot- 
ball season,  he  also  scored  the  winning 
goal  in  the  1954  basketball  game  against 
UMass.  He  performed  in  several  track 
and  field  events.  And  he  played  both  sin- 
gles and  doubles  in  tennis. 

•  William  Graham  '31  earned  1 1  varsity 
letters.  Despite  a  football  injury  that  side- 
lined him  for  most  of  his  junior  year  bas- 
ketball season,  he  led  all  area  collegiate 
scorers  in  1930.  As  an  end,  he  was  a  scor- 
ing threat  on  the  football  field.  And  as  the 
ace  pitcher  on  the  Engineer  baseball  staff, 
his  career  was  highlighted  by  his  one-hit, 
12-strikeout  performance  against  Clark 
University  in  1929. 


•  Donald  Lutz  '67  won  the  Outstanding 
Athlete  Award  in  his  senior  year,  the  result 
of  a  ten  varsity-letter  performance  at  WPI. 
He  was  an  All  New  England  guard  on  the 
basketball  court,  with  1,212  career  points, 
fifth  in  the  WPI  record  books.  Despite 
never  playing  soccer  before  his  sophomore 
year,  he  was  the  team's  star  goaltender  in 
its  10-0-1  1965  season.  And  on  the  base- 
ball field  he  was  both  an  offensive  and 
defensive  threat. 

•  David  McEwan  '39  won  12  letters  and 
was  a  three-sport  team  captain.  One  of  just 
two  freshmen  to  earn  soccer  letters  in 
1935,  he  would  go  on  to  earn  All-America 
and  All  New  England  honors.  In  basket- 
ball, his  four-year  performance  led  the 
team's  44-17  record,  and  he  was  the  Engi- 
neers' leading  scorer  as  a  junior.  He  was 
also  captain  of  the  golf  team. 

•  Morgan  "Mo"  Rees  '61  was  a  three- 
sport  captain  and  winner  of  1 1  varsity  let- 
ters. As  a  student,  he  was  a  player-coach 
in  wrestling  and,  as  much  as  anyone  else, 
helped  develop  it  into  one  of  WPI's  most 
successful  sports.  He  was  WPI's  first  All 
New  England  wrestler,  and  compiled  a 
23-3  dual-meet  career  record.  He  earned 
four  letters  in  football,  playing  both 
offense  and  defense,  and  captained  the 
1960  team.  And  in  the  springtime,  he  was 
an  outstanding  high  hurdler  in  track.  Since 
graduating,  Mo  Rees  has  remained  active 
in  the  WPI  wrestling  program,  helping 
WPI  to  become  a  New  England  power. 

It  is  well  worth  noting  that  as  students 
all  of  these  alumni  were  members  of 
Skull— the  Senior  Honor  Society.  Congrat- 
ulations to  each  and  every  1984  inductee 
of  the  WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame. 


Principals  at  the  1984  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame  dinner,  flanked  by  Patricia  Graham 
Flaherty  '75,  Poly  Club  president,  and  Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch,  are  inductees  David 
McEwan  '39,  Donald  Lutz  '67,  Earl  Bloom  '54  and  Morgan  "Mo"  Rees  '61. 


20       WPI  JOURNAL 


A  high  school  is  a 
high  school* 


But  every  high  school 
student  is  different 


Mass  education  is  fine,  says 
Educator  Theodore  R. 
Sizer,  but  standardized  edu- 
cation is  not.  In  Horace's 
Compromise,  he  describes 
the  plight  of  the  American 
high  school  teacher- 
trapped  between  too  many 


demands  from  the  system 
and  too  little  time  for  the 
students. 

It  doesn't  have  to  be  that 
way,  Sizer  argues.  Chair- 
man of  Brown  University's 
Education  Department  and 
formerly  headmaster  of 


Phillips  Academy,  Andover, 
and  dean  of  the  Harvard 
Graduate  School  of  Educa- 
tion, Sizer  directs  the  Coali- 
tion for  Essential  Schools. 
It's  essential,  he  says,  to 
revamp  the  high  school's 
traditional  structure. 


FEBRUARY  1985       I 


"High  school  is  a  rite  of  passage*  Rituals 
are  important,  and  rituals  are  embedded  in 

the  structure.  If  high  schools  didn't  have 
age-grading,  who'd  go  to  the  junior  prom?" 


In  Horace's  Compromise,  you  say  that 
all  high  schools  are  alike.  Could  you 
describe  the  typical  high  school?  Most 
high  schools  are  very  large  and  imper- 
sonal. All  start  before  9  o'clock  in  the 
morning.  Mom  and  Dad  leave  the  kids  off, 
that's  the  theory:  Schools  start  early  so  the 
parents  can  leave  the  kids  and  go  to  work. 
I  know  of  none  that  start  as  late  as  9 
o'clock. 

All  break  up  their  day  into  what  they  call 
"periods,"  usually  somewhat  more  than  40 
minutes  and  somewhat  less  than  60  min- 
utes. Kids  take  at  least  five  or  six  of  those 
a  day.  It's  all  set— it's  been  that  way  since 
the  1890s. 

Almost  without  exception,  high  schools 
are  arranged  horizontally  by  the  age  of  the 
kids  and  vertically  by  subjects.  Almost 
invariably  those  subjects  are  called 
English,  mathematics,  social  studies  and 
science,  language  arts,  and  so  on. 

High  schools  do  vary  by  the  social  class 
of  the  students.  What  doesn't  vary  is  the 
structure. 

What  are  the  social  class  differences? 

One  way  of  defining  social  class  is  paren- 
tal income.  Another  is  what  Ed  Banfield 
[The  Unheavenly  City:  The  Nature  and 
Future  of  Our  Urban  Crisis,  1968]  calls 
orientation  to  the  future.  I  know  some  very 
low-income  kids  who  are  very  upper-class 
and  very  aggressive  academically.  But  by 
and  large  low-income  kids  tend  to  be  kids 
who  don't  put  much  value  on  investing  in 
the  future— which  means  doing  their 
homework,  or  the  ditch-digging  of  learn- 
ing French  verbs  in  order  that  sometime 
they  might  be  able  to  speak  French— in 
short,  to  do  the  things  that  will  get  them 
somewhere. 

But  there  are  less  abstract  differences. 
On  the  whole,  the  lower  the  income  of 
students  served,  the  larger  the  total  load  of 
students  on  the  teacher.  In  city  schools,  the 
teacher  usually  faces— on  the  roster— five 
classes  a  day  of  35  kids,  which  is  appall- 
ing. In  a  suburban  public  high  school,  the 
teacher  has  five  classes,  or  for  an  English 
teacher  four  classes,  of  25  kids.  In  a  very 


rich  suburb  or  a  very  wealthy  private 
school,  the  ratio  may  be  one  to  12.  But  if  a 
kid's  parents  are  low  income,  chances  are 
the  teacher's  load  is  175  kids.  That's  the 
most  dramatic  difference. 

Another  difference  is  that  a  low-income 
kid's  chances  of  having  textbooks  for 
every  course  are  lower.  And  that  kid's 
chances  of  having  up-to-date  books  for 
every  course  are  lower  still. 

In  a  school  with  many  low-income  kids, 
many  of  the  problems  of  the  street  wash 
into  the  school.  For  example,  I  spent  some 
time  in  a  school  where  20  percent  of  the 
kids  were  already  legally  emancipated— 
they  were  under  the  age  of  18,  but  the 
courts  had  termed  them  adults— and 
another  40  percent  were  de  facto  emanci- 
pated, that  is  they  had  no  home  addresses. 
Sixty  percent  of  the  kids  had  no  home 
addresses.  Probably  very  few  "existed"  in 
the  census.  They  lived  in  burnt-outs. 
School  was  a  health  clinic,  a  restaurant,  a 
sanctuary.  The  fights,  the  terrors,  the  drug 
pushing,  the  horror  of  those  kids'  lives 
were  reflected  in  the  school. 

I  visited  the  principal  of  that  particular 
school  in  December  some  years  ago  and 
asked,  "Has  this  been  a  good  year?  How's 
discipline?",  and  he  said,  "It's  been  a 
good  year,  no  cutting."  "What  do  you 
mean?"  I  said. 

"There  have  been  no  razor  and  knife 
fights  yet,  it's  all  been  fists." 

That's  not  the  way  it  is  at  Phillips 
Andover.  No.  The  poor  in  this  country 
continue  to  get  the  short  end  of  the  stick, 
although  gross  expenditures  per  student  in 
many  big  cities  are  as  large  as  those  in 
suburban  schools.  Of  course,  much  of  this 
is  soaked  up  in  special  services.  Special 
services  are  needed,  but  they  distort  the 
data. 

What's  surprising,  though,  is  that  the 
poorer  school  is  still  organized  just  like 
every  other  school — even  in  cases,  like  a 
high  school  I  visited  last  week,  where  half 
the  kids  couldn't  read  or  write.  Teachers 
teach  grades  made  up  of  youngsters  of  a 
particular  age.  Teachers  teach  their  own 


special  subjects,  each  department  operat- 
ing blissfully  in  isolation  from  every  other 
one.  Seven  periods  a  day.  Every  high 
school  in  New  York  City  is  the  same— 
every  last  district— in  its  daily  routine. 

Those  students  who  can't  read  and 
write  still  go  to  English  and  social  stud- 
ies and— And  economics  class.  I  talked 
with  an  economics  teacher  who  taught  the 
entire  course  without  ever  asking  the  stu- 
dents to  read,  even  from  the  blackboard. 

"What  do  you  do?"  I  said. 

"Well,"  he  said,  "we  run  a  Junior 
Achievement  program.  We  decide  on  a 
product  to  make  and  then  sell."  They  turn 
the  classroom  into  a  factory  and  make  the 
product— this  year,  they  bought  little  cal- 
endars and  put  them  in  plastic  folders  with 
the  school  seal  on  them.  Then  the  class 
worked  out  a  marketing  program  and 
designed  advertising  posters— they  did  do 
that  much  writing— and  then  they  sold  the 
calendars  in  other  classes. 

It  was  a  class  in  practical  marketing,  but 
it  was  called  economics.  The  school  can 
say  it  has  a  12th-grade  economics  class, 
but  the  kids  can't  read.  The  teacher  says, 
"They  can't  read,  so  I  don't  try  to  make 
them  read,"  which  is  to  say,  "I've  given 
up." 

The  conspiracy  is  school-wide.  Every- 
body says,  "You  can't  read,  so  we  will 
avoid  the  issue." 

Until  they  learn  to  read  and  do  elemen- 
tary mathematics,  there's  no  point  in  giv- 
ing students  high  school-level  work.  They 
can't  read— and,  God,  there's  nothing  else 
the  kids  can  do,  because  without  that, 
they're  slaves  in  society. 

To  say,  "We're  going  to  teach  our  stu- 
dents economics,  health  education,  Bio  I," 
or  to  play  the  silly  game  that  everybody, 
even  the  illiterate  in  their  home  language, 
will  start  to  learn  French— the  city  of  Bal- 
timore now  has  a  requirement  that  every- 
body learns  a  foreign  language,  whatever 
their  proficiency  is  in  English — sounds  ter- 
rific. But  it's  silly. 

We  have  a  horrendous  problem  here,  a 
fundamentally  complicated  problem. 


n       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


If  the  structure  is  so  irrelevant,  what 
keeps  it  in  place?  High  school  is  a  rite  of 
passage.  Rituals  are  important,  and  rituals 
are  embedded  in  the  structure.  If  high 
schools  didn't  have  age-grading,  who'd  go 
to  the  junior  prom? 

Graduation  must  be  related  to  age, 
because  graduation  in  many  communities 
is  a  signal  that  it's  all  right  to  get  married. 
It  has  nothing  to  do  with  whether  a  person 
knows  English,  it  has  to  do  with  whether  a 
person  is  old  enough  to  get  married.  We 
don't  tamper  with  these  things  because 
they're  important  to  the  culture  for  reasons 
that  have  nothing  to  do  with  educating  stu- 
dents. 

Have  the  high  schools  ever  worked? 

High  schools  have  always  worked  for  cer- 
tain groups  of  kids,  the  students  whose 
particular  incentives  seem  to  fit  with  what 
the  schools  want  to  do.  Kids  who  have 
pressure  from  outside  the  school  to  do  well 
what  the  school  wants  done  well.  Kids 
who  don't  have  to  worry  about  protecting 
their  flanks  all  the  time. 

As  a  very  wise  principal  told  me  in  a 
conversation,  "Look,  I  will  show  you  an 
effective  high  school— if  you  give  me  just 
one  power." 
I  said,  "What's  that  power?" 
He  said,  "Let  me  pick  the  parents." 
He  was  absolutely  right.  Let  me  pick  the 
parents— I'll  teach  in  a  barn  and  the  school 
will  succeed. 

Neither  students  nor  schools  get  to  pick 
their  parents.  There  was  a  time  when 
more  of  the  students  who  actually  went  to 
high  school  were  likely  to  respond  to  the 
system's  incentives.  As  recently  as  1950 
only  half  the  age  group  finished  high 
school.  Today,  the  percentage  of  diploma 
recipients  is  somewhere  between  70  and 
75  percent.  Enrollment  is  somewhere  over 
90  percent— the  percentage  will  never 
reach  100. 

The  second  world  war  was  fought  by  an 
army  whose  average  school  completion 
level  was  the  eighth  grade.  The  Vietnam 
war  was  fought  by  an  army  with  a  high 


!59GEORGE  st. 


school  diploma.  Between  those  two  wars, 
there's  been  a  social  revolution:  mass  high 
school  education  for  the  first  time. 

Today,  the  majority  of  American 
schools  are  very  nice  schools.  They  aren't 
ill  disciplined.  They  aren't  dangerous. 
They're  full  of  happy,  friendly  kids.  A  lot 
of  them  have  great  fun  striking  their  bar- 
gains, going  through  in  mindless,  happy 
fashion. 

But  for  many  of  these  students,  many  of 
whom  wouldn't  even  have  been  in  high 
school  in  1947,  the  incentives  are  all 
wrong.  If  what  a  student  wants  is  a  high 
school  diploma,  and  if  the  student  has  no 
particular  ambitions  for  some  sort  of  tech- 
nical, specialized  career,  and  if  the  student 
knows  that  the  way  you  get  a  diploma  is 
collecting  Carnegie  units,  which  means 
serving  time,  then  the  student  is  likely  to 
say,  "Well,  I'll  serve  time  doing  as  little  as 
possible."  Which  means  not  being  truant 
more  than  X  days,  not  cutting-up  too 
much.  "Do  the  minimum,  and  I  get  as 
many  Carnegie  units  as  the  person  who 
breaks  his  back.  Why  do  more?  We'll  both 
wind  up  with  the  same  diploma." 

Current  incentives  value  expenditure  of 


Theodore  Sizer,  outside  Brown  Univer- 
sity 's  Education  Department  offices:  "It 
saps  a  teacher 's  morale  when  somebody 
else  is  making  all  the  important  decisions 
about  students  that  teacher  knows  better." 

time.  Some  states  call  it  seat  time,  a  won- 
derful phrase,  and  in  the  name  of  excel- 
lence, they  measure  it  in  minutes  per  year: 
If  a  school  has  36,000  minutes  of  aca- 
demic seat  time  in  California,  the  school 
gets  a  bonus.  So  kids  say,  "I'll  play  the 
game,  turn  on  the  clock." 

If  we  said,  "You  get  a  diploma  if  you 
show  us  you  can  do  some  important 
things,"  then  we  would  get  a  different 
result.  Get  the  incentives  right,  and  you 
can  teach  anybody  anything. 

So  turning  high  school  into  a  mass 
enterprise  is  part  of  the  problem?  The 

problem  isn't  mass  education.  The  prob- 
lem is  the  assumption  that  standardized 
practice  is  the  route  to  high  standards— 
when  in  fact  the  opposite  is  true,  because 
we're  all  different. 

A  lot  of  people  these  days  just  don't 
understand  that.  They  think  that  by  cen- 


FEBRUARY  1985       III 


"The  problem  isn't  mass  education*  The 

problem  is  the  assumption  that  standardized 

practice  is  the  route  to  high  standards — 

when  in  fact  the  opposite  is  true." 


tralized  regulations  and  standardized  prac- 
tices, high  school  will  improve. 

Oh.  high  school  will  improve  a  little  bit. 
because  it  will  go  from  mindless  to  mar- 
ginally less  mindless.  If  you  have  every- 
body take  aspirin,  you  are  going  to  cure  a 
few  headaches. 

Competency  testing  bv  the  state,  to 
make  sure  everyone  has  learned  the  same 
things,  is  the  lesser  of  two  evils.  The 
greater  of  two  evils  is  the  state  that  says  to 
the  school.  "There  will  be  one  syllabus 
and  we  will  decide  it  and  you  will  adminis- 
ter it  to  the  students  so-and-so-many  min- 
utes per  day."  That  is.  everybody  will  use 
the  same,  specific  program,  all  in  the 
name  of  excellence. 

And  in  the  name  of  equity  as  well?  It's 
fair  because  everyone  is  getting  the 
same  thing?  That's  right.  Everybodv  will 
have  their  left  finger  amputated  because  a 
few  may  have  a  left  finger  that  needs  to  be 
amputated. 

And  economy  too — It's  vers  simple.  You 
set  up  an  assembly  line  and  have  an  ax 
going,  bang.  bang.  bang.  You  can  whack  a 
whole  lot  of  fingers.  It's  silly,  absurd. 

But  the  alternative  means  trusting  the 
teachers.  Some  of  them  don't  deserve  the 
trust,  some  of  them  do.  But  unless  we  trust 
the  teachers,  we  won't  get  more  teachers 
we  can  trust.  It's  a  vicious  circle. 

If  we  make  the  job  attractive,  make  it  a 
job  which  has  some  authority,  then  more 
people  who  are  deserving  of  that  authority 
will  enter  the  profession.  If  we  reduce  the 
autonomy  of  the  position,  we'll  drive  out 
the  best  people.  There  it  is. 

Running  down  teachers  is  a  popular 
thing  to  do  at  cocktail  parties.  Have 
teachers  gotten  a  bad  press?  Yes.  I  think 
the  current  teaching  force  is  stronger,  as  a 
whole,  than  it  has  ever  been.  But  the  job. 
as  it's  structured  in  man>  high  schools,  is 
impossible.  Many  very  good  teachers  do 
journeyman's  work,  many  journeyman 
teachers  do  terrible  work,  simply  because 
there's  no  alternative. 


If  we  get  the  conditions  right— better, 
not  right— we'll  find  that  a  lot  of  teachers 
w  ill  do  a  lot  better  and  be  a  lot  happier. 

One  condition,  you've  already  sug- 
gested, would  be  fewer  students.  What 
are  some  others?  More  authority  for  the 
teachers.  Control  over  their  own  time  and 
materials.  And  authority  to  handle  kids 
directly,  instead  of  always  having  to  refer 
to  this  or  that,  or  send  them  somewhere 
else. 

It  saps  a  teacher's  morale  when  some- 
body else  is  making  all  the  important  deci- 
sions about  students  whom  that  teacher 
knows  better.  That's  why  in  private 
schools,  many  of  which  give  much  more 
authority  to  the  teachers,  morale  is  often 
quite  a  bit  higher  than  in  the  public  sector, 
even  though  salaries  may  be  lower.  Those 
teachers  have  some  control. 

Teachers,  of  course,  must  be  prepared  to 
make  compromises.  If  the  goal  is  to 
reduce  the  number  of  students  per  teacher, 
the  compromise  might  be  to  teach  more 
subjects  to  fewer  students.  If.  for  example. 
I'm  prepared  to  teach  both  English  and 
social  studies,  instead  of  teaching  social 
studies  alone  to  160.  I  can  teach  English 
and  social  studies  to  80.  This  will  cut  in 
half  the  number  of  kids  I  have  to  get  to 
know.  The  compromise  is  that  I  have 
to  teach  a  subject  in  which  I  didn't  happen 
to  major  in  college.  To  me.  that's  a  much 
readier  compromise. 

But  such  a  compromise  involves  a 
change  in  certification  laws.  And.  for  the 
teacher,  that  kind  of  compromise  means 
taking  risks,  working  hard,  and  working  in 
a  team. 

Are  you  saying  it  is  a  compromise  for 
teachers  to  have  to  work  in  a  team?  For 

some  teachers  it  is,  because  it  means 
admitting  to  your  colleagues.  "Gee.  I  just 
don't  know  English  very  well,  you've  got 
to  help  me."  Some  teachers  don't  want  to 
collaborate  with  each  other. 

On  the  other  hand,  teachers  are  already 
forced  to  teach  outside  their  specialties. 


Whenever  a  school  board  cuts  the 
number  of  teachers,  then  the  teachers 
with  the  most  years  are  told,  "You  can 
stay,  but  you  have  to  teach  an  unfamil- 
iar grade,  an  unfamiliar  subject"— But 
within  their  certification.  Of  course,  that 
certificate  could  be  20  years  old.  It  may  be 
a  "general"  certificate. 

I  talked  with  the  headmaster  in  a  very 
distinguished  Boston  public  school  where 
a  kindergarten  teacher  was  being  asked  the 
following  year  to  teach  12th-grade  phys- 
ics, because  her  certificate  was  a  general 
certificate.  She  had  the  right  seniority,  the 
right  race.  We  joked  about  this,  and  said. 
"It'll  never  happen,  it'll  never  happen."  A 
year  later,  it  had  happened.  She  retired 
early.  She  was  an  excellent  kindergarten 
teacher,  but  some  computer  bounced  her 
into  physics.  Stupid. 

Everyone  of  us  has  one  of  those  horror 
stories  about  the  teacher  who  doesn't 
know  the  subject  he  or  she  is  teaching.  A 
lot  of  teachers  don't  know  their  subjects, 
but  many  do. 

The  real  problem  is  that  there  is  no 
incentive  for  those  who  don't  know  their 
subjects  to  leam  more  about  them.  And 
another  thing— no  one  ever  sees  these 
incompetent  teachers  at  work.  There's  no 
one  to  watch  them.  If  they  say  something 
wrong,  no  one  knows.  And.  often  it's  not 
even  that  the  teacher  is  incompetent,  it's 
that  he  just  doesn't  know . 

When  schools  start  teaching  in  teams, 
someone  else  will  be  watching.  I  sat  w ith  a 
school  principal  in  a  social  studies  class- 
room where  the  teacher  said  that  the  rea- 
son the  Chinese  came  to  the  West  Coast  in 
the  19th  century  was  because  it  was 
cheaper  to  bring  them  here  than  to  send  the 
dirty  laundry  to  China.  And  that  wasn't  a 
joke.  I  almost  fell  out  of  my  chair  and  so 
did  the  principal,  but  if  he  hadn't  had  a 
visitor  to  show  around,  he  never  would 
have  heard. 

Your  Coalition  for  Essential  Schools  will 
try  some  of  these  ideas?  What  we're 
going  to  try  to  do  is  join  together  a  small 
group  of  schools,  15  to  25  of  them,  all  of 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


which  agree  to  a  very  simple  set  of  basic 
principles  and  which  try  to  put  these  prin- 
ciples into  practice.  We'll  spend  five  to  ten 
years  working  with  them  and  see  what  we 
can  leam. 

The  principles?  No  one  will  get  a 
diploma  except  on  the  basis  of  mastery. 
No  teacher  will  ever  have  more  than  80 
kids.  The  basic  pedagogy  will  be  what  we 
call  coaching.  The  kids  will  be  expected  to 
do  the  work,  while  the  teachers  support 
them.  The  expenditure  per  pupil  will  not 
increase  by  more  than  10  percent.  Among 
the  compromises  such  a  school  will  be  pre- 
pared to  make  is  that  it  w  ill  not  be  a  com- 
prehensive service  center. 

No  two  schools  will  put  those  principles 
in  effect  in  precisely  the  same  way.  Nor 
should  they. 

There  are  a  lot  of  schools  out  there  that 
say  they'd  like  to  toy.  What  the  Coalition 
staff  is  doing  now  is  visiting  schools 
who've  expressed  interest.  We're  meeting 
good  people,  who  want  to  do  right  by  the 
kids.  That's  a  cause  for  optimism. 

But  15  to  25  high  schools,  out  of  thou- 
sands in  the  U.S.,  are  a  drop  in  the 
bucket.  Salk  didn't  give  his  vaccine  to 


everybody  in  the  beginning.  It's  an  experi- 
ment—an experiment  in  the  schools. 

The  15  to  25  schools  will  be  enormously 
diverse.  There's  a  great  distance  between 
many  of  the  schools  we  are  visiting,  even 
when  they  are  as  geographically  close  as 
an  inner-city  high  school  in  Baltimore  and 
a  suburban  high  school  in  Columbia. 
Maryland. 

What's  been  interesting  is  that  a  dispro- 
portionate number  of  the  schools  serving 
the  poor  have  expressed  interest.  Why? 
They  say  they  don't  have  much  to  lose. 

Some  people  have  criticized  your  plan. 

The>  usually  cast  their  criticism  this  wa> : 
"You're  talking  about  giving  an  intellec- 
tual' education  to  kids  who  will  become 
ditch-hole  diggers.  They  don't  want  a  lib- 
eral education."  By  "they."  the  critics 
mean  the  poor  and  the  minorities.  "They 
should  be  trained  up  to  be  service  work- 
ers." I  find  that  argument  easy  to  knock 
dovv  n . 

What's  your  rebuttal?  "Thomas  Jeffer- 
son would  be  surprised  to  hear  you  say 
that."  Just  because  you're  black  and  poor 
doesn't  mean  you're  dumb.  Just  because 


you're  rich  and  white  doesn't  mean  you're 
smart. 

But  people  really  say  things  like:  "Just 
send  them  to  vocational  school." 

Learning  to  think  is  vocational  training, 
whatever  you  do.  Yes.  And.  of  course,  a 
student  can  learn  to  think  in  what  appears 
to  be  vocational,  as  well  as  academic, 
training.  Remember,  no  two  schools  will 
put  our  principles  into  action  in  the  same 
way. 

One  of  the  teachers  I  describe  in  my 
book  was  a  person  I  called  Charles  Gross. 
He  was  an  electricity  teacher.  The  day  I 
was  there,  he  had  his  students  up  at  the 
boards  doing  their  circuitry.  Most  of  those 
kids  wouldn't  be  in  school  if  they  weren't 
doing  hands-on  work  in  electricity,  which 
they  saw  as  a  trade  that  they  were  likely  to 
use  afterwards. 

But  Charles  Gross  wasn't  primarily 
teaching  them  the  techniques  of  electricity . 
because  he  said  the  technology  of  the  trade 
changes  every  five  years  and  anything 
taught  in  school  would  be  quickly  obso- 
lete. As  the  students  worked  at  the  board, 
he  would  walk  behind  one  and  say.  "Billy, 
what  would  happen  if  you  switched  that 
differently1" 

And  Billy  would  point— always.  Mr. 
Gross  would  say.  "Billy.  I'm  blind. 
you've  got  to  tell  me."  So— to  put  it  pomp- 
ously—Billy would  engage  in  the  careful 
description  of  hypothetical  deductive  rea- 
soning. If  he  did  this,  then  that  would  hap- 
pen. But  on  the  other  hand,  that  would 
lead  to  this  further  result.  A  very  compli- 
cated, abstract  train  of  consequences.  And 
the  youngster  would  have  to  say  all  this  in 
precise  language— he  wouldn't  have  to 
write  it.  but  he  would  have  to  say  it. 

A  vocational  teacher  has  only  50  stu- 
dents. Charles  Gross  knew  those  kids,  one 
by  one.  His  teaching  was  very  sophisti- 
cated basic,  basic,  basic  training— not  just 
"vocational"  training  in  electricity.  It 
wasn't  taught  by  Dick  and  Jane.  It  was 
taught  in  a  way  that  held  the  attention  of 
those  particular  kids.  And  it  was  effective. 

There  are  a  lot  of  people  saying.  "Go 


FEBRUARY  1985       V 


"There's  no  way  of  knowing  which  kids 

will  need  what  skills.  Imagination, 

resourcefulness,  and  high  intelligence 

are  not  the  preserve  only  of  the  wealthy." 


back  to  the  basics.  There's  only  one  peda- 
gogy, that's  grinding  it  down.  Warriner's 
grammar  for  all."  But  unless  we  get  the 
kids'  attention,  unless  the  incentives  are 
right  for  those  particular  kids,  we  won't 
persuade  them  to  learn. 

We  have  to  teach  in  different  ways  with 
different  kids,  particularly  the  demoral- 
ized. We  can't  just  say,  "You  should  be 
interested  in  the  life  of  the  mind,  therefore 
you  will  now  read  IvanhoeT  We  need  to 
come  at  it  from  different  angles,  different 
directions. 

We  can  never  stop  trying— that  would  be 
a  waste  of  intellectual  resources,  the  minds 
of  young  people.  There's  no  way  of  know- 
ing which  kids  will  need  what  skills. 
Imagination,  resourcefulness,  and  high 
intelligence  are  not  the  preserve  only  of 
the  wealthy.  A  lot  of  poor  kids,  maybe 
now  semi-illiterate,  are  in  fact  very,  very 
talented.  Unless  we  make  it  possible  for 
every  young  person  to  have  a  shot  at  show- 
ing off,  at  achieving,  we  won't  know  who 
can. 

Sure,  a  lot  of  kids  are  going  to  live  very 
dull  lives,  at  least  by  our  values.  We  hope 
they're  happy  lives,  but  they're  going  to 
be  dull.  The  question  is,  how  do  we  col- 
lectively—how does  society— decide 
which  lives  we'll  each  live?  The  answer 
is,  we  must  eliminate  to  the  greatest  possi- 
ble extent  influences  on  each  of  our  deci- 
sions that  are  unfair.  We  should  push  every 
kid  as  though  that  youngster  were  going  to 
reach  the  moon. 

And  we  should  do  so  knowing  full  well 
that  some  kids  will  say,  "I  need  to  add  and 
multiply  and  subtract  and  divide  but 
beyond  that,  everything's  dull.  I'm  never 
going  to  use  any  more  math."  For  a  lot  of 
people,  that's  true.  They  won't  even  use 
percents— alas,  they'll  be  conned  by  the 
bank.  But  for  others,  more  advanced  work 
will  be  essential.  And  no  one  knows  which 
will  be  which. 

Society  categorizes  all  the  time.  If  a  per- 
son is  black  or  Hispanic  and  poor,  that 
person  is  a  service  worker.  It's  a  self-ful- 
filling prophecy.  And  some  of  the  kids 
start  believing  it.  I  remember  working 


with  a  girl  from  Baltimore  who  came  to  an 
intensive  program  at  Andover  Short  Term 
Institute  saying  that  she  was  going  to 
become  a  practical  nurse.  She  left  saying 
she  was  going  to  be  a  physician.  The  last  I 
heard,  she  was  a  full  scholarship  student  at 
Goucher  College.  Six  weeks  with  a  sci- 
ence teacher  completely  redirected  her 
sense  of  herself.  She  was  miserably 
schooled,  but  look  where  she  is  now 
because  that  physics  teacher  saw  some- 
thing special  in  her. 

All  this  will  be  a  very  hard  job  because 
many  young  people  don't  see  much  in  the 
system  that  rewards  them  or  their  families. 
Why  play  the  game  if  the  rules  are  stacked 
against  you?  And  what  do  we  tell  a  low- 
income  black  kid  these  days,  "Shoot  for 
the  stars"?  The  kid  will  say,  "Who  are 
you  kidding?" 

Is  that  the  key  thing,  though,  not  cate- 
gorizing students?  There  are  no  pana- 
ceas. But  if  there  is  one  idea  that  seems  to 
be  very  persuasive,  it  is  the  elimination  of 
anonymity. 

Truancy  in  good  elementary  schools  is 
very  low.  One  obvious  reason  is  that  the 
students  are  little  kids,  but  another  reason 
is  that  these  youngsters  are  known  as  indi- 
vidual people.  There  aren't  big  classes,  so 
when  Johnny  is  absent,  Mrs.  Jones  knows 
who  Johnny  is,  knows  where  Johnny  lives, 
knows  Johnny's  younger  sister,  goes  and 
finds  Johnny's  younger  sister:  "Where's 
Johnny?" 

And  if  Mrs.  Jones  is  really  aggressive, 
she  trots  down  to  the  local  game  empo- 
rium, grabs  Johnny  by  the  ear,  and  drags 
him  back.  In  the  high  school,  with  125 
kids  or  150  kids  or  120  kids  to  be  responsi- 
ble for,  the  teacher  doesn't  know  many 
individuals.  Their  sisters?  C'mon.  Where 
they  live?  Too  much. 

Many  high  school  students  are  anony- 
mous in  their  schools.  They  can  drift.  And 
they  feel  that  no  one  cares.  If  we  can 
change  the  high  schools  to  get  the  ano- 
nymity down,  then  we  will  have  a  fighting 
chance.  This  is  what  many  of  us  who  want 
to  reform  the  schools  are  saying. 


The  trick,  then,  is  how  to  get  those 
ratios  down  without  increasing  budgets. 
The  trick  is  for  people  to  be  prepared  to 
make  the  necessary  compromises  to  elimi- 
nate anonymity.  It  can  be  done. 

But  when  you're  dealing  with  a  demo- 
ralized student  who  has  been  around 
schools  for  nine  years  and  hasn't  picked 
up  the  skill  of  reading,  how  do  you 
teach  that  person?  Slowly,  patiently,  and 
with  great  difficulty.  We're  dealing  with  a 
very  wounded  person. 

The  humiliation  of  not  being  able  to 
read  is  why  a  lot  of  kids  fake  it.  They're 
very  clever  at  faking  it.  They'll  look  at  the 
picture  and  guess.  And  you  and  I  would  be 
the  same  way.  When  we  go  to  a  foreign 
country  and  forget  the  language,  we  fake 
all  over  the  place. 

This  makes  teaching  exceedingly  diffi- 
cult. One-on-one  usually  works  best,  or 
one-on-two.  Often,  the  only  people  who 
can  get  through  are  peers,  a  sixteen-year- 
old  teaching  another  sixteen-year-old. 

We  know  a  lot  about  how  to  do  it.  It's 
just  that  it's  very  expensive.  It  takes  a  lot 
of  "people  time".  And  that  "people  time" 
is  spent  as  much  in  dealing  with  the  dam- 
age to  self  esteem  and  with  the  demoral- 
ization as  in  getting  the  student  to  read. 

It's  not  as  expensive  as  dealing  with 
them  the  rest  of  their  lives.  Have  you 
got  numbers  on  that?  Various  people 
have  computed  such  costs.  But  that  argu- 
ment involves  long-range  thinking.  It's 
like  lowering  the  national  debt:  people 
say,  "We  just  won't  talk  about  it  now." 
The  same  reasoning  is  applied  to  educa- 
tion: "We'll  cut  the  funds  and  not  talk 
about  the  costs  in  frustration."  The  country 
just  doesn't  want  to  hear.  We've  lost  our 
faith  in  investing  in  the  future. 

Our  illiteracy  rate  is  rather  high  among 
civilized  nations,  isn't  it?  A  fifth  of 
Americans  are  essentially  illiterate.  Some, 
such  as  Jonathan  Kozol,  argue  that  the 
number  is  even  higher— a  third.  Ironically, 
many  of  these  illiterates  have  high  school 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


An  Uncompromising  Position: 
High  Schools  Must  Change 


diplomas.  Again,  we're  so  enamoured  of 
the  symbol— graduation  exercises,  the 
diploma— we've  lost  track  of  what  it's  sup- 
posed to  mean.  So  we  allow  the  school 
machines  to  run:  People  move  and  go  to 
class,  to  ninth  grade  and  tenth  grade— even 
though  they  can't  read.  The  truth  is  so 
painful  we  can't  face  it. 

Should  we  go  with  the  flow  and  simply 
turn  our  colleges  into  high  schools?  And 
our  high  schools  into  grade  schools?  I 

think  a  lot  of  colleges  have  to  be  high 
schools.  I  don't  think  we  should  ever  give 
up  on  a  youngster.  We  can't  say,  "Well, 
this  kid's  illiterate,  so  we  should  stop 
teaching  him  because  he's  unworthy  of  our 
attention."  If  illiteracy  is  what  the  system 
produces,  we  must  teach  basic  English  in 
the  junior  year  of  college,  and  that's  what's 
happening.  We  can't  just  give  up. 

You  say  there  are  no  panaceas.  But 
some  people  argue  that  our  high  schools 
should  simply  have  higher  standards, 
and  they  point  to  Japan  and  Europe. 
Are  their  standards  that  high,  or  is  it 
apples  and  oranges?  It's  partly  apples  and 
oranges.  It's  partly  that  in  some  cultures 
there  is  more  societal  support  for  abstract 
academic  learning  than  in  others.  If  I  were 
to  pick  the  parents  for  the  ideal  high 
school,  many  might  be  Asian. 

I'm  not  sure  how  closely  we  should  be 
looking  at  Japanese  and  European  models. 
As  far  as  many  of  the  problems  of  Ameri- 
can schools  go,  we  don't  need  research  at 
all,  we  just  need  to  be  able  to  add  and 
subtract  and  multiply.  If  we  want  a  teacher 
to  spend  five  minutes  a  week  with  each  of 
175  students,  we  multiply  5  by  175  and  we 
divide  by  60,  and  the  result  is,  of  course, 
an  absurd  number,  a  block  of  hours  that 
few  teachers  can  invest.  And  just  for  five 
minutes  a  week  on  a  particular  student's 
work! 

Until  we  get  those  numbers  down,  let's 
not  talk  about  assigning  two  pieces  of  writ- 
ing a  week.  We  don't  have  to  cross  the 
Pacific  to  realize  American  high  schools 
have  a  problem— or  to  find  a  solution. 


The  current  criticism  of  America's  high 
schools  is  not,  of  course,  unique. 
"Since  the  1930s,"  writes  Theodore  Sizer 
in  a  1983  report  published  by  the  National 
Association  of  Secondary  School  Princi- 
pals (NASSP),  "American  education  has 
experienced  a  series  of  cyclical  reform 
efforts,  each  about  a  decade  long."  Sizer 
divides  each  ten-year  period  into  phases: 
initial  outrage,  the  formation  of  commis- 
sions and  task  forces,  reports  and  recom- 
mendations by  those  groups,  adoption  of 
some  of  those  recommendations,  and  rela- 
tive tranquility— to  be  shattered  by  fresh 
outrage,  inaugurating  the  whole  process 
once  again. 

In  1985,  the  United  States  should  reach 
the  end  of  the  reports  and  recommenda- 
tions stage.  Two  major  reports— High 
School,  sponsored  by  the  Carnegie  Foun- 
dation for  the  Advancement  of  Teaching 
and  written  by  the  foundation's  president, 
Ernest  L.  Boyer,  and  A  Nation  at  Risk,  the 
report  of  the  National  Commission  for 
Excellence  in  Education— have  already 
been  presented. 

Horaces  Compromise  is  the  first  of 
three  books  which  report  on  a  "Study  of 
High  Schools"  co-sponsored  by  the 
NASSP  and  the  National  Association  of 
Independent  Schools.  A  second  book,  The 
Last  Citadel  by  Robert  Hampel,  will  be  a 
historical  survey  of  American  high  schools 
since  1940.  The  third  book,  like  Sizer's  an 
outgrowth  of  time  spent  observing  Ameri- 
can high  schools,  is  The  Shopping  Mall 
High  School  (to  be  published  in  August 
1985  by  Houghton-Mifflin). 

Of  the  many  reports  published  thus  far. 
few  have  been  labeled  "radical"  as  often 
as  has  Horace's  Compromise.  "The  most 
far-reaching  blueprint  for  change."  said 
Newsweek.  "A  drastic  reorganization  of 
the  curriculum  and  school  day,"  said  Time. 
What  is  radical  about  Ted  Sizer's  "impera- 
tives for  better  schools"?  Here  are  some  of 
his  recommendations: 

Education  should  be  decentralized, 
allowing  each  school  to  adapt  to  the  needs 
of  its  particular  students.  High  school 
should  be  voluntary — students  who  dem- 
onstrate a  minima  of  basic  literacy  and 
mathematics  skills  are  free  either  to  leave 
school  or  to  enroll  in  high  school.  In  high 
school,  they  should  be  able  to  progress  at 
their  own  rates,  graduating  when  they 


have  exhibited  mastery  of  the  school's 
requirements,  whether  that  takes  two  years 
or  five.  Age  grading  and  days  divided  into 
six  or  seven  50-minute  periods,  with  each 
subject  taught  in  a  different  block,  should 
be  abolished,  in  favor  of  a  curriculum 
organized  into  four  large  areas:  inquiry 
and  expression,  mathematics  and  science, 
literature  and  arts,  and  philosophy  and  his- 
tory. 

Sizer  admits  that  these  new  schools  will 
be  "messy,"  and  that  they  fly  against  the 
American  passion  for  order:  "Our  schools 
have  a  passion  for  predictability.  System 
plays  a  big  role;  spontaneity  is  frowned 
upon.  High  schools  are  very  complex 
places  because  a  lot  of  things  have  to  go  on 
in  the  same  place." 

The  writers  of  The  Shopping  Mall  High 
School  also  claim  that  the  system  can  get 
in  the  way  of  education.  Arthur  G. 
Powell.  David  K.  Cohen,  and  Eleanor 
Farrar  took  their  shopping  mall  analogy 
from  a  high  school  guidance  counselor: 
"Both  types  of  institutions  are  profoundly 
consumer-oriented.  Both  try  to  hold  cus- 
tomers by  offering  something  for  every- 
one. Individual  stores  or  departments,  and 
salespeople  or  teachers,  may  try  their  best 
to  attract  customers  by  advertising  appeals 
of  various  sorts.  Yet  in  the  end  the  cus- 
tomer has  the  final  word."  And  quite  often 
that  customer  decides  not  to  buy.  There 
are  specialty  shops— college  prep,  special 
ed  programs,  gifted  programs,  vocational 
tech,  and  so  on— but  there  is  nothing  "spe- 
cial" for  the  "average"  student,  many  of 
whom  end  up  "hanging  out"  in  the  high 
school,  much  as  they  do  in  the  real  mall 
after  school. 

It's  a  depressing  thought,  but  like  Sizer 
and  the  authors  of  the  other  reports, 
Powell  and  his  colleagues  see  a  ray  of 
hope:  It  might  be  possible  to  launch  "a 
new,  unusual,  and  long-term  marketing 
campaign:  to  sell  skill  in  using  one's  mind 
as  a  serious  life  skill.  That  is  one  of  the 
few  products  the  shopping  mall  high 
school  has  not  tried  to  mass  market.  But  it 
is  not  inconsistent  with  the  mall  at  its  best; 
it  simply  takes  things  one  step  further 
toward  the  day  when  different  specialty 
shops,  all  committed  to  maximizing  intel- 
lectual potential,  will  exist  for  nearly  all 
teenagers  instead  of  just  for  some  of 
them." 


FEBRUARY  1985       VD 


HIGH  SCHOOL  NEWS 


A  plethora  of  national  studies  has  made  high  schools  front-page  news. 

Here  are  reports  on  more  specialized  research,  on  colleges  and  universities 

forging  new  links  with  secondary  schools,  on  the  "competition"  with 

Japan,  and  on  the  impact  of  computers — plus  comments  from  the 

classroom:  high  school  teachers  voicing  criticism  and  praise. 

Teachers  On 
Raising  Standards 


Kathleen  Webb,  Hartwick  '67;  guidance 
counselor  at  Lely  High  School,  Naples, 
Fla. ,  for  the  past  11  years: 

"Florida  is  trying  to  lead  the  nation  in 
upgrading  academic  standards.  The 
requirements  for  graduating  have  gone 
sky-high;  26  credits  now  instead  of  20, 
seven  50-minute  periods  a  day  until  four 
o'clock,  with  no  study  hall,  and  a  state 
test  in  basic  skills.  Those  requirements  are 
reasonable  for  some  kids,  but  unreasona- 
ble for  others;  to  some  extent  I  think  the 
standards  are  equating  quantity  with  qual- 
ity, and  everyone's  getting  burned  out. 

"The  requirements  are  heading  in  the 
right  direction,  but  so  quickly  that  we 
aren't  giving  the  kids  time  to  adjust." 

James  T.  Hepinstall,  RPI  '33;  retired  in 
1975  as  superintendent  of  the  Albany, 
N.  Y. ,  school  system,  where  he  had  been 
teacher  and  administrator  for  more  than 
40  years: 

"Lately,  I've  seen  more  intense  require- 
ments for  diplomas  being  pushed  by  those 
with  money  and  power,  and  in  a  lot  of 
ways,  that  makes  sense.  But  what  about 
the  kid  in  the  ninth  grade  who's  reading  as 
if  he  were  in  the  sixth?  Do  we  just  let  him 
go,  or  do  we  give  him  skills  commensu- 
rate with  his  abilities?  We  know  that  a 
diploma  is  the  key  to  a  job,  and  in  Albany, 
we've  offered  several  kinds  for  years." 

Robert  Cross,  Hartwick  '59;  social  stud- 
ies teacher  for  25  years  at  Maple  Hill 
High  School  in  Castleton,  N.  Y : 

"I'd  like  to  see  more  rigorous  academic 
standards,  with  the  teachers  having  more 
power  to  enforce  them.  The  impression  I 
get  is  that  parents  don't  like  to  see  their 
kids  do  poorly.  Instead  of  focusing  on  the 


kid,  they  focus  on  the  teachers  as  the 
source  of  the  problem.  Instead  of  calling 
teachers  for  conferences  on  the  kid,  they 
call  the  guidance  office  to  find  out  what's 
wrong  with  the  teacher. 

"The  implication  you  get  as  a  teacher  is 
that  you're  supposed  to  give  everybody 
good  marks.  Don't  fail  anyone.  As  a 
result  degrees  don't  end  up  meaning  very 
much,  because  the  students  get  through 
school  without  being  held  to  learning  any- 
thing. 

"But  I  have  a  simplistic  approach.  I 
blame  everything  on  Dr.  Spock.  He  said, 
'Don't  stifle  a  budding  ego;  no  one  can  be 
a  failure.'  That  has  carried  over  into  aca- 
demics, and  as  a  result,  there's  been  no 
setting  of  standards,  and  kids  do  end  up  as 
failures. 


"I'd  rather  have  taught  in  an  earlier  day 
when  the  students  who  couldn't  make  it 
were  allowed  to  drop  out.  Admittedly  they 
can't  do  anything  now  without  a  diploma, 
because  they'll  end  up  unemployed— but 
now  we  keep  them  in  school,  and  they  still 
end  up  unemployed." 

Jerry  Dyer,  Hopkins,  MA  '83;  he  is  in  his 
first  year  of  teaching  English  at  Loyola 
High  School  in  Towson,  Md. : 

"Even  among  the  good  students,  the 
system  doesn't  teach  the  value  of  indepen- 
dent thinking;  education  is  meritocracy- 
based:  You  need  grades.  Kids  want  to 
know,  Ts  this  going  to  be  on  the  test?'  It's 
almost  a  materialism  of  the  intellect; 
rather  than  having  intellectual  skills,  edu- 
cation is  having  these  measurements  that 
you  flash  in  front  of  people  to  get  a  job  or 
impress  them.  Measurements  need  to  be 
devalued— but  not  achievement." 

Sister  Christopher  Pixley,  RPI,  MS  '75;  a 
Dominican  Sister  of  San  Rafael,  she  is 
principal  of  the  St.  Vincent  Ferrer  High 
School  in  Vallejo,  Cal. ,  and  has  taught 
math  and  chemistry  for  23  years: 

"We  need  to  have  high  expectations  for 
our  students,  but  we  also  have  to  accom- 
modate our  school  system  to  the  learning 
styles  that  students  have,  because  that's 
the  only  way  to  reach  the  students  we're 
losing.  You  can't  just  raise  standards 
across  the  board.  You  have  to  demand  that 
each  student  strive  to  the  limit  of  his  or  her 
potential,  whether  on  the  remedial  or  hon- 
ors level.  It's  been  shown  that  students  do 
best  when  demands  are  put  on  them,  so 
the  question  is,  how  can  we  do  that  for  the 
ones  we're  in  danger  of  losing?  It's  a  tall 
order." 


VIE       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Just  Friends? 
Students  in  School 

Walking  past  a  knot  of  laughing,  talk- 
ing teenagers,  you  can  often  sense 
the  power  of  a  peer  group.  It's  a  power, 
says  sociologist  Joyce  Levy  Epstein,  that 
can  be  made  to  work  for  the  high  school. 
But  first,  the  school  must  realize  that  it  has 
the  ability  to  influence  students  in  their 
choice  of  friends.  "Friendships  can't  be 
engineered,"  says  Epstein,  "but  the  condi- 
tions which  yield  friendships  can  be  put 
into  place." 

Students  make  more  friends,  and  more 
friends  from  diverse  backgrounds,  in  what 
Epstein  and  colleagues  call  high-participa- 
tory schools.  Unlike  more  traditional 
schools,  where  the  underlying  assumption 
is  that  students  working  together  will  lead 
to  students  talking  together  and  then  to 
general  unruliness,  high-participatory 
schools  encourage  student  interaction. 
With  many  types  of  assignments  and  proj- 
ects, students  move  from  group  to  hetero- 
geneous group,  and  teachers  reward  group 
achievement.  (In  a  traditional  classroom, 
there  are  usually  only  a  few,  easily  recog- 
nized individual  "stars"  or  "pets".) 

Eliminating  or  limiting  academic  track- 
ing, making  room  for  extracurricular 
activities  during  the  schoolday  (so  stu- 
dents who  work  after  school  won't  be 
automatically  excluded,  for  example),  and 
opening  such  activities  to  people  at  all 
skill  levels  are  other  ways  a  school  can 
encourage  broader  contacts. 


In  such  situations,  says  Epstein,  a 
researcher  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Center  for 
the  Social  Organization  of  Schools,  stu- 
dents tend  to  make  friendship  choices  that 
are  more  "egalitarian."  Because  they  are 
given  a  chance  to  recognize  others'  special 
skills,  they  are  not  limited  to  choosing 
friends  on  the  basis  of  externals— which 
often  means  picking  friends  much  like 
themselves.  In  fact,  admits  Epstein,  a  stu- 


dent's two  closest  friends  are  likely  to  be 
fairly  similar  even  in  such  a  high-partici- 
patory setting,  but  it's  at  the  next  level, 
from  the  third-best  friend  out,  that  the 
broadening  influence  is  felt. 

Why  bother?  First,  the  school  may  feel 
it  has  an  obligation  to  support  society's 
commitment  to  diversity:  "Take  the 
example  of  desegregation.  It  may  be  the 
school's  responsibility  to  arrange  that 
black  and  white  students  meet  in  a  positive 
way."  Another  example:  "It  may  be  the 
school's  responsibility  to  see  that  kids 
have  the  opportunity  to  know  that  even 
though  some  kids  have  lesser  academic 
abilities,  they  have  talents." 

Some  schools,  she  says,  balance  the 
need  for  diversity  and  for  different  paces 
of  instruction  by  having  academic  tracking 
only  in  certain  courses  and  making  others 
as  heterogeneous  as  possible.  A  total  com- 
mitment to  academic  tracking  may  widen 
the  already  large  gap  between  high-  and 
low-scoring  students,  partially  by  separat- 
ing those  students:  Having  high-scoring 
friends  increases  the  achievement  of  both 
low-  and  high-scoring  students. 

High-participatory  schools,  Epstein 
points  out,  also  do  a  better  job  of  holding 
their  students'  interest.  While  students' 
satisfaction  with  other  schools  drops  as 
they  go  from  Grade  9  to  Grade  12,  the 
interest  level  for  students  in  high-partici- 
patory schools  stays  constant.         — MRY 


A  Population 
At  Risk:  Dropouts 

With  standardized  test  scores  declining 
and  the  education  page  of  the  New 
York  Times  wondering  why  Johnny  can't 
read  (or  write,  or  add,  or  even  make  it  to 
class),  the  consensus  among  educational 
movers  and  shakers  in  the  high  schools 
has  been:  We're  not  working  them  hard 
enough.  Back  to  the  basics,  say  the 
National  Commission  on  Excellence  in 
Education,  the  Education  Commission  of 
the  States,  and  the  Task  Force  on  Educa- 
tion for  Economic  Growth:  a  core  curricu- 
lum of  English,  math,  science,  social 
studies  and  language,  with  more  home- 
work and  tougher  grading  standards. 
Some  educators  are  calling  for  longer 
school  days  and  calendar  years;  a  few 
have  even  suggested  a  longer  school  week. 


All  well  and  good,  since  studies  have 
shown  that  smart  kids  get  smarter  when 
pushed.  But  a  new  study,  prepared  for  the 
American  Educational  Research  Associa- 
tion (AERA)  by  sociologists  Edward 
McDill  and  Aaron  Pallas  of  Johns 
Hopkins  and  Gary  Natriello  of  Columbia 
University  Teachers  College,  warns  that 
students  who  are  less  academically 
inclined  may  get  trampled  underfoot  in  the 
stampede  back  to  excellence. 

"If  academic  standards  are  raised  and 
students  are  not  provided  substantial  addi- 
tional help  to  attain  them,  it  seems  plausi- 
ble to  expect  that  socially  and  academi- 
cally disadvantaged  students  will  be  more 
likely  to  experience  frustration  and  fail- 
ure," the  authors  declare  in  A  Population 
at  Risk:  The  Impact  of  Raising  Standards 
on  Potential  Dropouts. 

The  study  ultimately  walks  a  middle 
line  between  what  it  identifies  as  the  two 


major  trends  in  high  school  education  over 
the  past  30  years:  excellence  and  equity. 
In  the  post-Sputnik  era  of  the  late  1950s, 
America  was  in  a  fever  to  be  the  best,  and 
the  National  Defense  Education  Act  of 
1958  improved  programs  and  facilities  in 
the  public  schools.  With  the  Civil  Rights 
Act  of  1964  and  President  Johnson's  Great 
Society  Program,  the  schools'  focus 
shifted  from  quality  to  equal  opportunity; 
critics  have  blamed  the  shift  to  equity  for 
the  subsequent  erosion  of  academic  stan- 
dards and  performance. 

"We  don't  want  to  roll  back  the  accom- 
plishments of  the  last  decade,"  says  the 
AERA  study's  co-author  Aaron  Pallas,  an 
associate  research  scientist  in  the  Depart- 
ment of  Sociology  at  Hopkins.  "I  think 
the  crowning  achievement  of  schools  over 
that  time  was  the  opening  of  doors  to 
minorities." 

The  study  notes  that  dropping  out  is 


FEBRUARY  1985       IX 


already  a  problem  of  epidemic  propor- 
tions. Research  in  1979  showed  that  some 
25  percent  of  all  18-year-olds  weren't 
graduating  from  high  school  (on  the  other 
hand,  the  U.S.  and  Japan  led  the  industrial 
world  in  percentage  of  young  people 
entering  high  school),  and  a  1972  report 
to  the  U.S.  Senate  estimated  the  yearly 
economic  impact  of  the  attrition  rate:  $71 
billion  in  lost  tax  revenues  from  high 
school  dropouts  between  the  ages  of  25 
and  34,  $3  billion  in  welfare  and  unem- 
ployment assistance,  and  $3  billion  in 
associated  crime  prevention. 

The  AERA  study  says  that  dropping  out 
stems  from  problems  which  tougher  stan- 
dards are  only  likely  to  aggravate.  "By  far 
the  most  common  reason  for  leaving 
school  is  poor  academic  performance," 
say  the  authors.  "It  is  not  surprising  that 
students  who  are  not  doing  well  in  school 
should  seek  to  leave  an  environment  pro- 
viding negative  feedback."  In  other 
words,  nobody  likes  to  feel  stupid,  and 
under  a  back-to-basics  curriculum,  the 
non-academics  may  have  even  less  room 
to  shine. 

Similarly,  demanding  more  of  the  bor- 
derline student's  time  may  be  like  trying  to 
get  blood  from  a  stone.  The  average  U.S. 
high  school  student  spends  "more  time 
watching  television  per  day  than  doing 
homework  per  week,"  but  not  the  potential 
dropout.  He  or  she  has  often  "taken  on  the 
attitudes  and  roles  of  adults  while  still  in 
high  school,"  including  "the  work  role." 
Among  twelfth-graders,  for  example, 
those  who  work  average  1 5  to  18  hours  a 
week.  And  each  year  there  are  400,000 

Computer  Caveat 

Schools  are  buying  computers  so  rapidly 
that  no  one  knows  how  many  are  now 
in  American  classrooms.  One  thing  we  do 
know,  however,  according  to  researcher 
Henry  Jay  Becker  of  the  Johns  Hopkins 
Center  for  the  Social  Organization  of 
Schools,  is  that  schools  are  buying  com- 
puters without  really  knowing  how  to  use 
them  most  effectively. 

In  a  survey  of  U.S.  principals  and 
teachers  (another  survey  is  in  progress), 
Becker  was  able  to  draw  some  conclusions 
about  patterns  of  computer  use  in  schools. 
High  schools  are  the  largest  users.  By  Jan- 

983,  85  percent  of  all  high  schools 
had  at  least  one  computer,  compared  to  42 
percent  of  elementary  schools. 

Most  high  schools  used  their  computers 
to  teach  students  how  to  program.  In  fact, 
the  longer  schools  had  had  the  computers, 


adolescent  mothers  under  the  age  of  17, 
80  percent  of  whom  never  finish  high 
school .  The  point  is  that  many  dropouts 
and  potential  dropouts  already  suffer  from 
conflicting  demands  on  their  time. 

So  what's  the  answer?  It's  still  "excel- 
lence," but  with  a  safety  net  for  the  at-risk 
population.  Pallas  and  colleagues  suggest 
some  modifications  in  the  educational 
environment,  none  of  them  very  surpris- 
ing, that  could  keep  the  potential  dropout 
from  being  pushed  over  the  line  by  higher 
standards:  smaller  schools,  with  lower 
student-teacher  ratios  and  the  flexibility  to 
gear  programs  to  individual  needs.  At  the 
same  time,  good  old-fashioned  rules,  with 
the  emphasis  on  clarity  and  consistency, 
are  also  "crucial  to  high  academic 
achievement,"  no  matter  how  specialized 
the  curriculum.  And  school  "climate,"  an 
atmosphere  of  "support  for  achievement 
and  intellectualism,"  is  important,  too. 

Laudable  aims,  but  the  fact  is  that  it's  a 
lot  easier  to  institute  reforms  on  paper 
than  to  legislate  them  in  the  classroom. 
"Most  teachers  have  their  own  definite 
ideas  about  what  will  work,"  says  Pallas. 
"At  every  step  there's  the  risk  that  some- 
one will  say,  'Forget  this  stuff,  I'm  going 
to  implement  my  own  ideas.'  Programs 
should  be  closely  evaluated  at  the  same 
time  that  they're  being  put  into  effect." 

Even  if  all  teachers  follow  the  same 
game  plan,  evaluating  the  success  of  a 
program  is  tricky.  Once  more  challenging 
standards  are  in  place,  it's  likely  that  over- 
all student  achievement  will  rise.  But, 
argues  Pallas,  it's  also  likely  that  many 
borderline  students,  if  they  aren't  helped 


to  meet  the  new  standards,  will  drop  out. 
Since  the  students  being  tested  will  be  the 
"survivors,"  rather  than  what  Pallas  calls 
the  "full  enrollment  model,"  the  reformers 
should  not  be  too  quick  to  take  credit  for 
higher  performance.  To  get  a  truer  esti- 
mate of  the  efficacy  of  higher  standards, 
the  researchers  say  methods  should  be 
found  to  include  dropouts  in  the  perfor- 
mance measures. 

It's  a  way,  they  say,  of  keeping  equity, 
as  well  as  excellence,  in  mind.  — JL 


the  more  likely  they  were  used  to  teach 
programming.  That's  perfectly  under- 
standable, Becker  says,  because  educa- 
tional software  is  notoriously  bad  and  little 
has  been  done  to  integrate  computers  into 
the  traditional  curriculum  or  to  apply  com- 
puters to  traditional  classroom  activities. 

It's  nonetheless  disappointing  that 
schools  are  making  such  limited  use  of 
computers,  Becker  says,  and  the  solution 
goes  beyond  simply  putting  more  and 
more  computers  into  the  schools.  Becker 
is  one  of  a  growing  number  of  educators 
who  is  recommending  that  schools  stop 
buying  computers  for  the  moment,  until 
more  research  is  done  about  how  to  use 
them.  "I'm  personally  a  really  avid  com- 
puterist ,"  he  says.  "But  at  the  same  time  I 
spent  enough  wasted  time  in  my  crazed 
period  so  that  I  can  safely  say  that  schools 
shouldn't  feel  they  have  to  do  something 


X       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Misguided  Efforts: 
College  Counseling 

For  six  out  of  10  high  school  students  in 
the  United  States  the  next  step  is  col- 
lege. But  often  that  step  is  a  misstep:  six 
out  of  10  students  enrolled  as  freshmen  at 
a  college  or  university  fail  to  graduate 
from  that  institution. 

Why  do  so  many  students  pick  the 
"wrong"  school?  The  answer,  suggests 
the  National  College  Counseling  Project, 
can  be  found  in  inadequate  college  coun- 
seling. In  the  spring  of  1984,  the  project's 
researchers  surveyed  guidance  counselors 
at  2,200  of  the  nation's  25,000  high 
schools.  (Of  those  counselors,  51.8  per- 
cent returned  their  questionnaires.)  This  is 
what  the  researchers  found: 

Schools  serving  upper-income  families 
provide  the  best  college  counseling  ser- 
vices. The  disparity  is  likely  to  get  worse: 
over  the  past  three  years,  one  in  five 
lower-income  schools  (where  family 
income  is  less  than  $15,000)  has  reduced 
its  college  counseling  resources.  So  poorer 
students,  who  can  expect  the  least  help  in 
college  counseling  from  their  parents  and 
friends,  are  also  the  ones  who  can  expect 
the  least  help  in  school. 

Regardless  of  the  income  group  a  high 
school  serves,  one  factor  is  constant. 
Almost  all  counselors— 99  percent— report 
that  their  programs  are  somewhat  or  very 
effective,  despite  the  fact  that  few  schools 
ask  for  feedback  from  students  (35.7  per- 
cent) or  parents  (15.8  percent). 


about  computers  even  though  they  don't 
know  what  they  are  doing." 

What  then  should  be  done?  Becker 
thinks  what's  needed  is  an  "experimental 
attitude":  "Small  numbers  of  schools 
should  be  given  sufficient  equipment  to 
put  computers  in  the  classroom  and  try  to 
use  them  in  different  ways." 

Leaders  in  school  districts,  or  teachers 
in  very  large  schools,  could  find  areas 
where  the  curriculum  is  weak  and  apply 
computers  to  make  it  better— more  under- 
standable and  more  fun.  They  would  need 
the  support  of  the  school  or  school  dis- 
trict, so  that  they  could  get  their  hands  on 
all  the  computer  resources  needed,  maybe 
even  moving  all  the  computers  from  a 
school  district  to  one  classroom.  They 
would  coHect  available  software,  or  per- 
haps write  their  own.  They  would  devise 
ways  to  integrate  the  computer  into  the 
normal  activities  of  the  classroom— lec- 


While  the  counselors  rated  their  overall 
efforts  highly,  some  anxieties  showed  up 
when  they  filled  in  the  questionnaire's 
Comments  section.  Many  mentioned  the 
high  ratio  of  students  they  have  to  serve  or 
complained  of  too  much  time  spent  on 
non-counseling  duties.  "I  didn't  earn  80 
credits  in  counseling,"  one  person  told  the 
researchers,  "so  I  could  sit  here  and  figure 
out  how  many  kids  can  take  Phys.  Ed.  in 
third  period." 

"College  counselors  don't  do  the  things 
people  think  they  do— and  they  haven't 
done  them  for  a  long  time,"  says  Project 


Director  David  Erdmann,  director  of 
undergraduate  admissions  at  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute.  "Sitting  down  with 
the  student,  doing  a  thorough  inventory  of 
his  or  her  strengths  and  weaknesses,  and 
matching  up  a  list  of  colleges  and  univer- 
sities with  those— that  doesn't  happen 
very  often,  except  in  private  schools. 

"We  talked  to  a  lot  of  students,"  says 
Erdmann,  "and  when  asked  how  much 
time  they  spent  with  their  college  coun- 
selor in  making  their  choices,  the  answer 
was  often  'very  little  time'  or  'no  time'." 

Even  when  counselors  find  time  for  the 
matching  process,  says  Erdmann,  it  can 
be  self-serving:  counselors  want  students 


ture,  demonstration,  discussion,  exercise. 
And  then  they  would  set  up  a  controlled 
experiment  in  which  one  class  got  the 
computer-assisted  course  and  another  the 
regular  course.  Then  they  would  measure 
the  impact  on  achievement— math  or  sci- 
ence scores,  reasoning  and  writing  ability, 
or  whatever. 

Until  researchers  begin  to  test  different 
uses  of  computers  in  the  classroom, 
Becker  says,  schools  won't  know  what 
uses  are  educationally  cost  effective. 
There  have  been  studies  of  using  com- 
puters for  drill  and  practice,  for  instance, 
and  they  "seem  to  show  that  if  you  com- 
pare students  who  use  pencil  and  paper 
with  those  who  use  computers  for  mathe- 
matics drills,  computers  are  at  least  as 
good  as  pencil  and  paper.  But  if  you  think 
of  the  expense,  computers  should  be  much 
more  effective." 

— ECE 


to  get  into  "good"  schools,  so  "the 
matching  process  tends  to  be  reputa- 
tionally  driven  rather  than  institutionally 
driven."  Also,  suggesting  possible  schools 
is  essentially  subjective:  "A  good  coun- 
selor in  one  school  could  sit  down  with  a 
student,  inventory  strengths  and  weak- 
nesses, and  come  up  with  a  list  of  10 
schools.  Another  good  counselor  at 
another  school  would  have  10  different 
schools  on  the  list." 

Erdmann,  who  describes  himself  as  a 
former,  "barely  adequate"  high  school 
guidance  counselor,  says  the  project  isn't 
out  to  condemn  high  school  guidance 
counselors,  but  rather  to  suggest  better 
ways  of  doing  a  difficult  job. 

To  that  end,  the  researchers  are  follow- 
ing up  the  survey  with  visits  to  U.S.  high 
schools,  selected  to  represent  a  cross-sec- 
tion of  regions,  incomes,  affiliations,  and 
so  on.  From  this  closer  look,  they  plan  to 
publish  a  formal  report,  complete  with 
recommendations,  this  fall.  Later  in  the 
1985-86  school  year,  in  the  project's 
fourth  and  final  stage,  members  will  visit 
20  schools  across  the  country  to  help 
counselors  set  up  the  new  guidelines. 

Erdmann  already  has  some  suggestions: 
"College  counseling  can,  and  should,  be  a 
matter  of  establishing  a  process  students 
can  work  through  themselves.  It  doesn't 
have  to  be  on  a  one-on-one  level."  The 
ideal  program,  he  says,  is  one  which 
"educates  students  about  decision-making 
skills." 

When  university  or  college  representa- 
tives visit  a  high  school,  Erdmann  would 
like  guidance  counselors  to  request  "a 
form  of  tithing"  from  the  visitors:  "Don't 
just  let  them  sell  their  college.  They 
should  also  be  willing  to  give  X  percent  of 
their  time  to  educating  students,  for  the 
good  of  colleges  in  the  larger  sense.  They 
can  talk  to  the  students  about  writing  an 
efficient  essay,  about  what  an  interview 
really  means,  about  what  to  look  for  when 
they  visit  a  college  campus." 

The  declining  number  of  18-year-olds 
means  that  "colleges  are  going  to  recruit 
more  aggressively,"  says  Erdmann, 
"therefore  it's  an  imperative  that  kids 
learn  how  to  deal  with  that  flood  of  infor- 
mation." In  short:  "Good  counseling  is 
not  coming  up  with  a  list  of  schools  and 
handing  it  to  a  student.  It  is  having  a  stu- 
dent go  into  the  matching  process  in  a  sci- 
entific manner,  not  simply  following  the 
path  of  least  resistance." 

Did  the  survey  turn  up  any  surprises? 
"The  economic  disparities,"  says  Erd- 
mann. "It's  not  really  surprising.  But  is  it 
what  we  want  to  have  happen?"     — MRY 


FEBRUARY  1985       XI 


Teachers  On 
Teaching 

Paul  Lambert,  Hartwick  '55;  superintend- 
ent of  schools,  Cooperstown.  N.  Y.,for  the 
past  nine  years,  he  was  an  elementary 
school  principal  for  nine  years  and  has 
taught  high-school  social  studies  and  his- 
tory: 

"Change  has  to  begin  in  the  classroom, 
with  realistic  standards  and  well-trained, 
caring  teachers.  Yes.  that  does  mean  find- 
ing a  way  to  pay  our  teachers  better  sala- 
ries. If  you  had  to  choose  between  four 
years  of  college  to  get  a  starting  salary  of 
SI  1 ,500.  or  a  three-month  tractor-trailer 
training  course  that  would  start  you  at 
$20,000.  why  would  you  even  look  into 
teaching? 

"We  certainly  can't  recruit  the  best  peo- 
ple with  the  starting  salaries  we're  offer- 
ing. The  industries  are  gobbling  up  the 
math  and  science  teachers." 

Mary  Ann  Dunevant,  Hopkins,  MEd  '79; 
has  taught  English  for  1 1  years  at  Arch- 
bishop Keough  High  School,  Baltimore,  Md. 

"I'd  like  to  see  more  of  the  good  teach- 
ers stay  in  the  high  schools— especially  at 
the  age  that  I  am  [32],  a  lot  of  people  are 
getting  out  because  they  don't  see  teach- 
ing as  a  career  with  a  future. 

"What  would  keep  them  in  the  schools? 
A  fair  salary.  Support  from  their  adminis- 
trators—perhaps  having  the  administrator 
occasionally  teach  a  class  so  there's  not 
such  a  difference  between  teachers  and 
administrators." 

Lloyd  A.  Kelley,  Jr. ,  RPI  '52;  superin- 
tendent of  the  Rutland,  Vt. ,  city  schools, 
he  has  held  many  teaching  and  adminis- 
trative posts,  including  a  stint  as  com- 


missioner of  education  for  the  state  of 
Vermont: 

"We're  working  here  toward  what  we 
call  'mastery.'  We  feel  that  any  student, 
given  the  appropriate  time,  materials  and 
staff  can  learn  what  you  expect  of  all  stu- 
dents. That  doesn  't  mean  you  can  make  a 
silk  purse  out  of  a  sow's  ear.  It  simply 
means  that  students  at  a  given  level  should 
master  the  core  of  knowledge  that's  been 
prescribed  for  them. 

"This  gets  you  into  a  competency-based 
education,  where  you  are  constantly  re- 
assessing students  and  re-teaching  them. 
. . .  The  role  of  the  teacher  changes  from 
the  imparter  of  cultural  heritage  to  a  medi- 
ator of  instruction.  ...  I  favor  the  concept 
of  a  master  teacher  working  with  a  group 
of  teachers  and  instructional  aides.  This 
decreases  the  student-teacher  ratio,  which 
always  means  more  money,  but  it  creates 
more  sophisticated,  individualized  class- 
room planning.  We  need  to  make  that 
investment. 

"I'm  very  fearful  that  secondary  educa- 
tion is  more  a  case  of  providing  skills  for 


the  present  that  worked  in  the  past,  rather 
than  a  case  of  providing  skills  for  the 
future.  For  too  long,  our  educational  plan- 
ning has  been  reactive  rather  than  prospec- 
tive." 

Mike  Brown,  F&M  '70;  computer  science 
and  physics  teacher  at  the  Kiski  School  in 
Saltsburg,  Pa. ,  he  has  also  taught  at  the 
Friendly  High  School  in  Prince  Georges 
County,  Md. : 

"I'd  like  to  see  greater  professionalism 
among  the  faculties,  and  that  isn't  going  to 
happen  until  the  school  boards  start  treat- 
ing us  like  professionals.  School  boards 
and  administrations  treat  teachers  the  way 
that  teachers  treat  students:  they  act  as  if 
they  know  best.  Teachers  do  know  better 
than  students;  for  instance,  I  know  better 
than  the  kids  what  I  should  be  teaching  in 
my  physics  course.  But  everyone  on  the 
school  boards  thinks  he  or  she  knows  how 
to  teach,  and  it  simply  isn't  the  case. 

"Teachers  are  put  in  a  factory  assembly- 
line  situation,  where  we're  not  involved  in 
the  decision-making.  In  a  factory  they 
don't  expect  the  assembly-line  guys  to  say 
'hold  it.  I  think  we  oughta  do  it  like  this.' 
They  expect  them  just  to  be  cogs  in  a 
wheel." 

Timothy  C.  Doyle,  F&M  '73;  teaches 
American  and  Russian  history  and  Rus- 
sian language  at  the  Lawrenceville  (N.J.) 
School: 

"It's  tough  for  me  to  comment  on  the 
public  schools  because  I've  never  worked 
in  them  but  my  perception  is  that  private 
school  kids  do  a  lot  more  homework. 
Also,  I  don't  think  public  school  teachers 
assign  much  writing,  because  they  don't 
have  the  time  to  read  it.  Their  classes  are 
too  big.  The  average  public  school  teacher 
carries,  what,  a  load  of  60  to  100  stu- 
dents? I've  got  40  to  50  tops  where  I  am." 


Can  U.S.  High  Schools 
Learn  from  the  Japanese? 


High  school  in  Japan  is  not  compulsory, 
but  even  so  95  percent  of  the  nation's 
young  people  enter  high  school— the  same 
percentage  as  in  the  United  States.  And 
Japanese  students  enter  high  school 
already  well  prepared— the  nation's  13- 
and  14-year-olds  outscore  students  world- 
wide on  math  and  science  achievement  tests . 

"The  average  Japanese  high  school 
graduate,"  estimates  Thomas  P.  Rohlen  in 
Japan 's  High  Schools  (University  of  Cali- 


fornia, Berkeley:  1984),  "has  the  equiva- 
lent basic  knowledge  of  the  average 
American  college  graduate."  When  the 
longer  Japanese  school  year  (240  days)  is 
taken  into  account,  at  the  end  of  12  years 
the  Japanese  high  school  graduate  has 
actually  had  four  more  years  of  schooling 
than  his  U.S.  counterpart.  And  that's  not 
counting  the  time  spent  atjuku. 

Juku  are  after-school  "cram"  schools, 
preparing  students  for  the  annual  competi- 


tions, known  as  "examination  hell," 
which  determine  entrance  to  the  nation's 
universities— and  more.  Getting  into  a  top 
school  is  the  most  important  step  toward  a 
prestigious  job:  The  top  level  of  the  gov- 
ernment, for  example,  is  dominated  by 
graduates  of  Tokyo  University:  the  statis- 
tical chances  of  a  student  entering  Tokyo 
University  are  about  1  in  440. 

Not  everyone,  of  course,  tries  for 
entrance  to  Tokyo  University.  In  fact,  says 
Merry  I.  White,  a  Harvard  sociologist 
specializing  in  Japanese  education,  "The 
Western  perception  of  examination  hell  is 
a  stereotype.  Really,  only  10  percent  of 
high  school  kids  go  through  the  worst  of 


XII       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


that.*'  White  points  out  that  the  competi- 
tion for  entrance  into  a  good  high  school- 
public  or  private— may  be  even  more 
intense:  "If  you  want  to  go  to  a  presti- 
gious high  school,  you  must  take  an 
entrance  exam."  So  there  arejuku  to  pre- 
pare students  for  the  high  school  exams- 
there  are  evenjuku  which  admit  students 
by  examination. 

Although  schools  are  ranked  and 
entrance  is  competitive.  White  says  that 
the  premise  behind  the  Japanese  system 
"is  still  egalitarian,  i.e. ,  intelligence  and 
the  ability  to  take  tests  are  what  counts. 
Super-bright  kids  make  it  even  if  poor  or 
badly  connected."  The  scales  can  be 
tipped,  she  concedes,  in  the  case  of  "the 
middle-range  kids,  who  need  motivation, 
stimulation.  That's  where  parental  invest- 
ment of  money— for  after-school  pro- 
grams or  a  tutor— or  of  time— as  when 
mothers  work  with  their  children— can 
help."  And,  as  John  Zeugner,  a  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  professor  who  has 
written  on  Japanese  education,  notes, 
money  can  be  a  help:  "Certain  schools 
with  good  rates  of  getting  people  into  uni- 
versities charge  astronomical  fees." 

Sounds  like  a  rat  race?  The  situation  for 
high  school  students  (boys  are  more  likely 
to  aim  for  the  best  universities  than  girls, 
many  of  whom  go  on  to  junior  college) 
isn't  as  bad  as  it  may  appear,  argues 
White.  "The  student  facing  the  exam  has 
a  lot  of  people  on  his  side— mother,  fam- 
ily, teacher— against  the  exam,  which  is 
seen  as  an  outside  enemy.  Obviously,  a  lot 
is  at  stake,  and  if  you  fail,  you're  very 
upset,  but  there's  something  integrating 
about  the  pressure." 

What  about  the  relatively  high  rate  of 
suicide  among  Japanese  teenagers?  "In 
Japanese  culture,  suicide  is  not  viewed  as 
as  extreme  an  act  as  it  is  in  the  United 
States.  It  is  viewed  as  a  mode  of  self- 
expression,  so  there's  a  precedent,"  White 
notes.  "When  suicide  happens,  it  usually 
involves  a  family  dynamic  which  isolates 
the  child  rather  than  external  pressures." 

To  the  Japanese,  the  biggest  problem 
facing  their  high  schools— and  junior 
highs— is  school  violence.  "One  educa- 
tion official  has  said  that  such  episodes  are 
clearly  the  fruits  of  the  American  occupa- 
tion after  World  War  II,"  says  John 
Zeugner,  "when  Japanese  schools  were 
reorganized  on  the  American  model." 
What  the  Japanese  mean  by  school  vio- 
lence, however,  may  seem  child's  play 
compared  to  school  violence  in  the  U.S. 
Although  there  have  been  (highly  publi- 
cized) cases  where  teenagers  have 
attacked  or  killed  parents  and  teachers,  the 


numbers  involved  are  very  small.  "Vio- 
lence has  a  different  cultural  meaning," 
says  Merry  White.  "A  listing  of  violent 
episodes  includes  such  categories  as 
whether  students  have  committed  an  act  of 
violence  against  the  required  school  uni- 
form [meant  to  promote  egalitarianism]  or 
have  dyed  their  hair.  And,  again,  it's  a 
matter  of  scale— the  crimes  reported  in 
one  year  among  school-age  children  in 
Osaka,  for  example,  are  equal  to  those 
reported  in  one  day  in  New  York." 

The  biggest  difference  between  Japa- 
nese and  American  high  schools  may  be 
the  national  consensus  in  Japan  on  the 
importance  of  education.  The  value 


placed  on  education  shows  up  in  the  status 
and  pay  accorded  teachers:  "Teachers  are 
hired  for  life,"  writes  White  in  The  Public 
Interest,  "at  starting  salaries  equivalent  to 
starting  salaries  for  college  graduates  in 
the  corporate  world." 

Does  the  American  system  do  anything 
better?  In  Japan 's  High  Schools,  Thomas 
Rohlen  suggests  that  Japan,  with  its  com- 
mon, fast-paced  curriculum,  falls  short 
when  it  comes  to  the  slower  learners: 
"Those  who  leave  school  after  ninth 
grade,  and  the  small  percentage  who  drop 
out  of  high  school,  face  problems  far  more 
severe  than  those  who  stay  to  face  the 
exam  competition."  — MRY 


High  School  Index 

Percentage  of  Americans  aged  25  and  older  who  had 
completed  four  years  of  high  school  in  1982:  71 

In  1910:  13.5 

Percentage  of  U.S.  students  enrolled  in  the  general— 
rather  than  the  academic  or  vocational— track  in  1980:  37 

Twenty  years  ago:  12 

Number  of  minutes  in  the  average  U.S.  class  "hour":  57 

Minutes  of  that  hour  spent  on  administration:  12 

Of  19  academic  tests  given  to  students  in  industrialized  nations 
the  number  of  subjects  in  which  the  U.S.  scored  highest:  0 

Second  highest:  0 

Lowest:  7 

Of  the  six  tests  Japanese  students  took,  the  number 
in  which  they  scored  highest:  3 

Percentage  of  U.S.  students  with  jobs:  67 

Percentage  of  Japanese  male  students  with  jobs:  18 

Of  female  students:  1 1 

Of  100  U.S.  high  school  seniors,  the  number 
who  own  their  own  car:  50 

Of  100  high  school  students  in  Japan,  the  number 
who  have  a  driver's  license  and  access  to  a  car:  1 

Number  of  hours  the  average  U.S.  student  spends  on  homework 
per  week":  3.9 

The  average  Japanese  student:  15 

Percentage  of  U.S.  parents  who  said  in  1969  they'd  like 
their  child  to  be  a  public  school  teacher:  75 

In  1983:  43 

Percentage  of  decrease  in  real  terms  of  U.S.  teachers'  salaries 
between  1972  and  1983:  12.2 

Percentage  of  U.S.  schoolteachers  who  report 
feeling  unsafe  on  the  job:  35 

Average  SAT  scores  (combined)  of  a  National  Merit  Semifinalist: 
1450  out  of  a  possible  1600 

Of  U.S.  college-bound  students  in  1982 
who  intended  to  major  in  education:  813 


FEBRUARY  1985       XDI 


Teachers  On 
What's  Being  Taught 

Diane  Jacobs,  Hopkins,  MLA  '73, 
Hopkins  doctoral  candidate  in  gifted  edu- 
cation; on  sabbatical  after  12  years  of 
teaching  English  at  Pikesville  (Md. )  Sen- 
ior High  School: 

"I  would  like  to  see  more  career  educa- 
tion in  the  high  schools  for  students  of  all 
ability  levels— career  education  beginning 
in  ninth  grade,  with  (he  purpose  not  of 
having  students  seal  themselves  into  a 
career  for  life,  but  with  the  purpose  of 
offering  diversity  of  options  and  aspira- 
tions. 

"Mentorship  for  high  school  students 
would  be  a  great  benefit  in  learning  about 
career  realities.  It's  a  good  experience  for 
students  to  see  that  things  are  not  just 
within  four  walls,  that  what  you  do  in  high 
school  matters." 

Kathi  Fragola  Hochber,  Hartwick  '73; 
French/Spanish  teacher  and  soccer  coach 
at  Harrison  (N.  Y)  High  School: 

"We  need  some  kind  of  national  conti- 
nuity in  the  writing  of  syllabi,  in  each  sub- 
ject area.  I  get  kids  in  my  language  classes 
from  out  of  state,  and  they're  either  too  far 
behind  or  too  far  ahead.  It  would  be  good 
if  we  could  even  get  some  continuity 
within  the  state. 

"Maybe  this  doesn't  hold  true  in  all 
subject  areas— I  can't  see  a  biology  course 
in  New  York  being  much  different  than 
one  on  the  West  Coast— but  with  lan- 
guages, there's  often  a  big  gap.  Of  course, 


that  may  have  to  do  with  money.  The  eco- 
nomic makeup  of  a  community  could 
determine  the  quality  of  its  students,  and 
also  the  amount  of  money  it  is  willing,  or 
can  afford,  to  spend  on  language  pro- 
grams." 

Thomas  Zulick,  Hartwick  '61;  math 
teacher  at  Saugerties  (N.  Y. )  High  School; 
he  has  taught  for  25  years: 

"We  need  to  get  back  to  the  basics,  the 
three  R's.  Kids  can't  read,  they  can't  do 
arithmetic  or  logic.  Everything  else  would 
fall  in  line  if  we  got  back  to  the  basics. 

"Grade  values  have  gotten  too  political. 
Students  and  administrators  aren't  con- 
cerned about  a  core  of  knowledge,  they're 
worried  about  averages." 


Herman  Finkle,  F&M  '50;  guidance 
counselor  at  the  Ewing  High  School  in 
Trenton,  N.J. ,  he  has  worked  18 years  as 
a  guidance  counselor  and  10  years  as  a 
teacher  with  special  education  students: 

"I  think  students  need  to  have  more  of  a 
liberal  arts  background  in  the  ninth  and 
tenth  grades,  and  then  a  major  for  the  last 
two  years,  the  way  colleges  do." 

Larry  A.  George,  WPI,  MA  '78;  princi- 
pal, the  Guilford  School,  Brattleboro,  Vt. ; 
he  has  also  been  a  science  teacher: 

"We've  got  to  reorganize  the  schools  so 
that  they're  more  student-centered  than 
curriculum-centered.  The  amount  of  infor- 
mation there  is  to  teach  has  grown  to 
amazing  proportions.  In  an  information- 
oriented  age,  kids  have  to  know  where  to 
find  things  and  how,  rather  than  a  wealth 
of  details. 

"In  science,  for  instance,  there's  a  lot 
more  to  teach  than  simply  facts.  Kids  need 
to  know  more  about  how  science  operates, 
how  it  affects  their  lives.  We  have  to  give 
them  hands-on  experiences,  and  make 
them  relate  the  subject  to  the  different 
kinds  of  things  that  are  going  on. 

"Ted  Sizer  talks  about  doing  away  with 
the  concept  of  separate  teachers  for  differ- 
ent subjects  in  favor  of,  say,  a  combined 
social  studies  and  language  arts  teacher. 
It's  a  more  humanistic  approach;  in  some 
ways  it's  like  bringing  a  middle  school 
environment  to  the  high  school  level." 


A  Little  Help 
From  Higher 
Education 

Now  seems  to  be  the  time  when  all 
good  colleges  and  universities  are 
coming  to  the  aid  of  secondary  education. 
The  long-term  goals  are  altruistic;  the 
short-term  goals  have  to  do  with  demo- 
graphics. "Colleges  are  reaching  toward 
high  schools  as  student  demographics  are 
declining,"  says  Dean  Bradley  R.  Dewey 
of  Franklin  and  Marshall  College. 
The  current  demographic  dip  is 
expected  to  curve  back  up  in  the  mid- 
1990s,  when  the  present  baby  "boomlet" 
comes  of  age.  Meanwhile,  the  dip  is  forc- 
ing higher  education  to  work  with  its 


counterparts  in  secondary  education,  says 
Dewey,  and  that's  good. 

Some  programs  focus  on  teachers,  oth- 
ers on  students  or  on  curriculum,  still  oth- 
ers on  combinations  of  those  basic  ele- 
ments. The  important  factor  seems  to  be 
matching  an  institution's  expertise  to  what 
the  high  schools  want.  "You  can't  force 
things  on  the  schools,"  says  Peter  Chris- 
topher, a  mathematics  professor  at  Wor- 
cester Polytechnic  Institute.  "The  schools 
have  to  come  looking.  The  trick  is  to 
come  up  with  programs  that  appeal." 

WPI  has  done  that  with  its  Frontiers  in 
Mathematics  and  Science  program. 
Aimed  at  academically  able  students, 
Frontiers  offers  material  traditionally  not 
covered  in  high  school:  current  unsolved 
problems  in  chemistry,  physics,  mathe- 
matics, and  biology.  The  purpose:  to 
spark  the  participants'  interest  and  thus 


counterbalance  the  national  decline  in  the 
number  of  high  school  graduates  who 
wish  to  major  in  science  or  mathematics. 
At  the  same  time,  the  two-week  program 
introduces  WPI  to  potential  applicants.  So 
many  students  applied  for  the  first  tuition- 
free  program  (subsidized  for  the  first  two 
years  by  the  George  I.  Alden  Trust)  that 
WPI  upped  the  number  of  participants 
from  36  to  50  (65  attended  in  1984). 

Frontiers  is  one  phase  of  a  five-part  pro- 
gram to  include  an  honors  workshop  for 
science  and  mathematics  teachers,  regular 
discussion  groups,  visiting  lectures  by 
WPI  faculty,  and  a  scientist-in-residence 
program.  WPI  is  also  exploring  collabora- 
tive efforts  with  a  fledgling  group  in  its 
area  called  SKIP— for  School,  College, 
and  Industry  Partnership. 

In  Troy,  N.  Y.,  the  acronym  is  CETS, 
for  Consortium  for  Educational  Technol- 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ogy  and  Science.  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute  is  among  the  institutions  of 
higher  education  joining  with  high  schools 
and  industry  to  apply  technology  (primar- 
ily computers)  to  the  teaching  and  learning 
of  secondary  school  sciences  and  mathe- 
matics. The  four-year  project  calls  for 
summer  workshops  for  research  scientists 
and  educators  to  produce  and  improve 
educational  materials.  It  has  lined  up 
schools  to  try  out  the  material— one  by 
integrating  it  completely  into  the  curricu- 
lum, the  other  by  using  it  as  a  supplement. 

While  the  project  is  making  the  grant- 
application  rounds,  RPI  professors 
involved  are  going  ahead  on  other  work. 

Mathematics  professor  Edith  H. 
Luchins  and  colleagues  have  worked  with 
the  New  York  State  Regents  to  revise  the 
mathematics  curriculum,  used  computer 
graphics  to  improve  students'  spatial 
skills,  and  set  up  an  experimental  reversal 
of  the  traditional  order  of  science  courses: 
physics  first,  then  chemistry,  then  biology. 
"With  this  order,"  says  Luchins,  "stu- 
dents will  be  better  prepared  to  understand 
the  developments  of  microbiology,  and 
the  gap  between  high  school  and  college 
biology  will  be  much  less." 

The  gap  between  high  school  and  col- 
lege courses,  and  the  level  of  preparation 
the  latter  require,  led  12  independent  col- 
leges and  universities  in  Pennsylvania  to 
issue  a  1983  statement  entitled  "What  We 
Expect."  Those  colleges  have  also  initi- 
ated a  series  of  humanities  institutes  for 
secondary  school  teachers— on  literature 
in  1985,  history  in  1986,  and  foreign  lan- 
guages in  1987.  They  will  be  similar  to 
national  institutes  once  sponsored  by  the 
National  Endowment  for  the  Humanities: 
the  faculty  will  be  both  professors  and 
high  school  teachers,  and  the  emphasis 
will  be  on  content  not  pedagogy.  But,  says 
F&M  Dean  Bradley  Dewey,  "This 
attempts  to  be  more  than  just  a  luminous 
summer  experience— that  glows  very 
brightly  for  three  or  four  weeks  and  then  is 
allowed  to  stop."  To  encourage  an  after- 
glow of  contacts  between  new  colleagues, 
the  geographic  range  will  be  narrow:  each 
institute  will  really  be  four  institutes— the 
colleges  have  divided  Pennsylvania  into 
four  regions,  and  all  participants  at  a 
given,  centrally  located  institute  will  be 
from  the  same  region.  Funding  for  the 
first  year  comes  from  NEH,  and  several 
states,  including  Wisconsin  and  Florida, 
are  interested  in  borrowing  the  concept. 

Behind  such  projects  lies  the  realization 
that  it  is  high  time  to  reforge  the  partner- 
ship between  higher  education  and  the 
high  school.  — MRY 


Teachers 

On  Responsibility 

Lee  C  Malbone,  WPl,  PhD  '70;  vice- 
principal  at  Burrillville  Regional  High 
School,  Harrisville,  R.I. ,  since  1979: 
"Parents  have  to  monitor  their  chil- 
dren's behavior  in  high  school,  they  have 
to  communicate  better  with  them  and  with 
their  teachers.  They  have  to  emphasize  the 
importance  of  education,  and  get  re- 
involved  in  the  process." 

Charles  W.  Connolly,  WPI  '64;  principal 
of  the  Classical  High  School,  Lynn, 
Mass. ,  where  he  has  been  a  teacher  and 
administrator  for  25  years: 

"I'd  like  to  see  education  removed  from 


all  political  interference.  The  people  in 
power  have  too  much  control,  financial 
and  otherwise,  over  the  education  system. 
.  .  .  The  fact  is  that  the  schools  here  have 
been  underfunded  for  the  past  five  years. 
The  teachers  haven't  had  a  raise  in  four 
years.  That  makes  for  poor  morale,  which 
inevitably  gets  transmitted  to  the  kids. 
"I  also  don't  have  any  say  about  the 
teachers  who  come  into  my  building,  and 
yet  I'm  held  responsible  for  their  perfor- 
mances. The  school  board  chooses  them, 
and  there's  a  definite  sense  that  we're  not 
supposed  to  step  on  their  toes.  It  makes  it 
very  difficult  to  run  a  school." 


FEBRUARY  1985       XV 


Teachers  On 

What's  Good  About  High  Schools 


Paul  Lambert,  Hartwick: 

"We  have  some  outstanding  teaching 
going  on.  It's  an  exciting  time  to  be  in 
education,  even  with  all  the  trouble.  There 
are  new  tools,  like  high  technology  and,  in 
New  York,  the  new  state  regents  plan— it's 
up  to  all  of  us  to  see  how  creative  we  can 
be  in  implementing  them." 

Lee  C  Malbone,  WP1: 

"The  teachers  are  our  biggest  strength. 
Most  of  them  are  working  together  with 
an  amazing  dedication  to  the  education 
process." 

Mary  Ann  Dunevant,  Hopkins: 

"I  find  a  renewed  interest  in  learning. 
I'm  not  sure  of  the  source — sometimes  I 
think  the  students  feel  they  have  to  get 
good  grades  to  get  into  a  good  college,  but 
for  many  students  it  is  wanting  to  do 
something  well  and  having  a  sense  of  sat- 
isfaction out  of  doing  something  well,  tak- 
ing pride  in  what  they're  learning  to  do. 
"Teachers  are  encouraging  excelling 
more,  not  accepting  substandards." 

Lloyd  A.  Kelley,Jr.,RPI: 

"Today's  public  school  kids  are  learning 
what  I  learned  in  college.  They're  better 
trained  than  any  generation  in  the  history 
of  this  country." 

Jerry  Dyer,  Hopkins: 

"The  way  high  schools  are  set  up.  stu- 
dents come  into  contact  with  different 
teachers  who  can  influence  them,  show 
them  values  and  content.  A  lot  of  schools 
and  teachers  try  to  present  a  plurality  of 
views;  they  don't  just  teach  to  student 
interests,  but  also  teach  against  some  of 
their  prejudices  and  weaknesses.  It  can  be 
very  broadening. 

"American  education  tries  to  be  awfully 
broad— that's  good,  although  it  can  go  too 
far  and  become  a  smorgasbord,  a  K  Mart 
of  the  soul— whereas  in  other  countries, 
you  are  channeled  into  a  particular  field 
much  earlier." 

Timothy  Doyle ,  F&M: 

"I'm  not  sure  I  see  any  great  strengths, 
beyond  the  fact  that  there  are  many  good 
teachers  doing  the  best  they  can  do  with 
too  many  kids." 

Robert  Cross,  Hartwick: 
"The  teachers." 


Kathi  Fragola  Hoehber,  Hartwick: 

"There's  an  incredible  diversity  of  sub- 
ject matter  being  offered  to  students,  at 
least  in  reasonably  affluent  areas.  By  com- 
parison, in  France  after  a  certain  level, 
students  have  to  decide  to  follow  either  an 
educational  or  a  vocational  track.  Here, 
both  are  offered  in  the  same  system,  and 
there's  more  flexibility  to  change." 

Mike  Brown,  F&M: 

"The  faculties  are  our  strength,  trying 
to  do  their  jobs  in  light  of  all  the  prob- 
lems. Also,  we're  starting  to  get  back  to 
basics,  and  that's  becoming  a  strength.  It 
was  necessary  to  go  the  other  way  for  a 
while,  and  now  we're  swinging  back." 

Thomas  Zulick,  Hartwick: 

"The  increased  use  of  computers  has 
opened  a  lot  of  areas  in  teaching,  such  as 
TV  home  computers.  Unfortunately,  the 
computer  will  only  do  what  you  are  able 
to  tell  it  to  do;  you  have  to  have  the 
knowledge  to  put  into  it." 

Herman  Finkle,  F&M: 

"There  are  a  lot  of  dedicated  people  in 
education,  the  majority  of  the  teachers  are 
excellent,  but  you  don't  hear  too  much 
about  that,  or  about  the  good  kids  either. 
We  could  both  use  some  positive 
publicity." 

Sister  Christopher  Pixley,  RPI: 

"Diversity  and  plurality  are  our  biggest 
strengths,  but  I  don't  think  we  support 
them  very  well.  Of  course,  I'm  somewhat 
biased,  but  the  bulk  of  public  support  goes 
to  public  schools,  and  I  think  that's  a  mis- 
take." 

Diane  Jacobs,  Hopkins: 

"The  best  thing  about  the  public  high 
school  system  is  that  it  has  a  great  poten- 
tial for  change.  I  really  believe  the  great 
diversity  of  people  who  attend  public 
schools,  and  their  needs,  can  be  heard. 
They  have  to  say  what  they  want,  make 
their  wishes  known,  but  the  public  high 
school  is  a  receptive  climate,  not  rigid  or 
closed  to  change.  The  community  has  to 
work  for  that  change. 

"The  best  thing  about  public  education 
is  the  public.  If  the  high  schools  are  going 
to  get  better,  it's  going  to  have  to  be  the 
people— and  not  just  the  people  in  the 
schools." 


Jobs  And  High 
School  Graduates 

A  high  school  graduate  out  to  get  a  job 
is  graded  at  the  interview  on  personal- 
ity, not  transcript. 

In  1983,  a  survey  of  Fortune  1300  firms 
asked  executives,  Are  American  educa- 
tional standards  high  enough  to  help  U.S. 
industry  meet  its  foreign  competition? 
Almost  everyone  agreed  on  the  answer- 
no.  In  fact,  the  National  Commission  on 
Excellence  in  Education's  1983  report.  A 
Nation  at  Risk,  charges  that  the  U.S.  eco- 
nomic slump  can  be  linked  to  the  declin- 
ing worth  of  a  high  school  diploma. 

But  Robert  C.  Crain,  of  the  Johns 
Hopkins  Center  for  Social  Organization  of 
Schools,  reasoned  that  executives  aren't 
likely  to  be  hiring  for  jobs  requiring  a  high 
school  diploma.  He  decided  to  question 
those  who  do  the  hiring.  He  figured  that  if 
the  hypothesis  were  true,  personnel  man- 
agers would  say  they  were  having  trouble 
finding  well-prepared  high  school  gradu- 
ates and  would  be  looking  for  the  students 
who  did  well  at  the  best  schools. 

Crain  tried  to  bait  his  questionnaire  so 
subtly  the  managers  wouldn't  know  they 
were  being  asked:  "Is  American  educa- 
tion any  good?"  Each  questionnaire 
included  a  vignette  of  a  representative  hir- 
ing situation.  There  were  40  vignettes, 
varied  along  six  dimensions,  including 
type  of  high  school.  Since  it's  popularly 
believed  that  suburban  schools  are  better 
than  city  schools,  the  bait  was  hidden  in 
the  vignettes.  But  managers  didn't  seem  to 
pay  attention  to  high  school  quality. 

Since  many  high  school  graduates  are 
hired  for  bottom-level  jobs,  quality  of 
training  in  mathematics,  science  and  liter- 
ature can  seem  irrelevant.  Of  1 ,390  per- 
sonnel officers  answering  to  the  initial 
questionnaire,  52  percent  said  recent  high 
school  graduates  have  the  reading  and 
math  needed,  leaving  48  percent  whose 
new  employees  presumably  don't.  Yet 
only  6  percent  said  they  provide  instruc- 
tion in  basic  reading  and  math  for  work- 
ers, and  only  2  percent  said  they've  had  to 
simplify  the  reading  or  math  requirements 
of  jobs  because  of  workers'  weaknesses. 

What  personnel  managers  look  for  first 
in  high  school  graduates  is  dependability, 
followed  by  a  good  attitude.  They  also 
want  someone  who  is  moral  (translation: 
"doesn't  steal  company  equipment").  Just 
below  these  qualities  come  the  ability  to 
read  (on  the  level  of  the  daily  newspaper) 
and  to  do  basic  math.  — CEB 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Inside  the  Education  Crisis, 
and  Why  \fou  Should  Get  Involved 


By  Charles  M.  Richardson '46  EE 


So  you're  in  a  profession  other  than 
education,  be  it  engineering,  medi- 
cine, business  management,  law  or 
whatever.  Undoubtedly,  you  hear  the 
laments  over  the  educational  "medioc- 
rity," the  SAT  sag,  the  language  lag,  etc., 
and  you  say,  "So  what?  With  all  that  fuss- 
ing, the  educators  will  get  more  money  in 
their  budgets  next  year,  and  they'll  take 
care  of  it.  I'll  do  MY  job,  and  they'll  do 
theirs  (with  my  kids).  After  all,  THEY'RE 
PROFESSIONALS,  RIGHT?" 

Before  /  yell,  "Wrong!,"  I'm  asking  you, 
the  reader,  to  hang  in  there  with  me  for  a 
few  lines  from  an  engineer  turned  educator 
who  has  seen  it  from  the  inside.  Then  you 
may  be  ready  to  yell  with  me,  and  together 
we'll  be  heard. 

In  the  last  14  years,  I  have  dealt  with 
more  than  2,500  students  on  an  individual 
diagnosis  and  prescription  (mostly  reme- 
dial) basis.  I  see  at  all  levels— K-adult— 
the  damaging  effects  of  poor  teaching  and 
school  management  practices.  I  feel  that 
most  of  my  students  would  not  be  remedial 
had  they  been  taught  properly  in  the  first 
place.  All  this  has  given  me  grave  doubts 
about  the  ability  of  the  educational  system 
to  heal  itself  without  outside  help  (yea, 
even  intervention),  even  with  Substantial 
ca$h  tran$fu$ion$. 

Ponder  for  a  moment  the  history  of  edu- 
cational governance  in  this  country— long- 
standing practices  founded  on  the  rationale 
that  "Education  is  too  important  to  be  left 
to  the  educators."  That  philosophy  has  led 
to  the  educational  supervision  by  lay 
boards  of  education  and  boards  of  regents 
from  society-at-large,  and  the  writing  of 
education  laws  by  legislators.  Our  most 
fundamental  and  far-reaching  decisions 
about  education  are  being  made  by  non- 
educators. 

However,  Don  Stewart,  like  myself  an 
engineer  turned  educator,  points  out  in 
Educational  Malpractices:  The  Big  Gam- 
ble in  our  Schools,  that  only  10  to  15  per- 
cent of  U.S.  schools  are  considered  to  be 
using  effective  teaching  practices.  Yet, 
most  educational  decision-makers  outside 


A  technologist  turned 
teacher  looks  at  educa- 
tion from  the  inside 
and  describes  what  he 
sees  from  an  engineer- 
ing point  of  view:  The 
system  is  worse  than 
what  has  been  made 

public.  And  the 

engineering-scientific 

community  needs 

to  take  action. 


education  are  urging  decisions  aimed  at 
giving  teachers  higher  salaries,  merit  pay. 
smaller  classes,  etc.,  with  nary  a  word 
about  improving  the  effectiveness  of  peda- 
gogical practices.  Who's  really  in  charge 
here? 

Simply  granting  more  money  to  educa- 
tion has  a  poor  track  record:  Make  a  loga- 
rithmic plot  of  the  SbillionS  spent  on  edu- 
cation over  the  last  30  years,  and  the 
SbillionS  generated  in  the  gross  national 
product  (GNP),  extrapolate,  and  you'll  get 
something  like  Figure  1 .  Thus  if  present 


trends  persist,  education  will  devour  the 
entire  GNP  by  the  year  2063! 

Ironically,  from  our  runaway  investment 
we  are  reaping  galloping  illiteracy:  18  mil- 
lion illiterate  adults  in  1970,  23  million  in 
1975,  and  75  million  in  1983.  Corpora- 
tions are  spending  SmillionsS  annually 
teaching  basic  skills  that  should  have  been 
learned  in  public  school.  The  Armed  Ser- 
vices are  re-writing  manuals  down  to  fifth- 
grade  level,  and  half  our  youth  don't  vote 
and  don't  understand  how  our  government 
works.  It's  no  wonder  that  several  states 
have  already  formed  joint  business-educa- 
tion "excellence"  teams,  most  often 
chaired  by  a  corporate  CEO. 

Persons  outside  education  tend  to  assume 
that  education  operates  as  a  profession,  but 
I  see  much  that  persuades  otherwise.  It  has 
ingrained  practices  of  hypocrisy,  fraud, 
conflict  of  interest,  and  ignorance  of  its 
own  best  research.  The  problem  is  one  of 
technology,  not  in  the  sense  of  the  use  of 
technological  products  (e.g.,  computers), 
but  of  the  basic  technology  of  education 
itself:  how  humans  learn.  Educators  have 
dropped  their  own  ball,  and  the  intellectual 
and  political  clout  of  our  industrial/scien- 
tific community  is  needed  to  catalyze  their 
recovery.  From  an  engineering  viewpoint, 
education  needs  a  megadose  of  systems 
engineering. 

The  teacher  training  to  which  I  was 
exposed  included  little  discussion  of 
developing  an  educational  strategy  on  the 
basis  of  theory  and  evaluating  the  outcome 
of  such;  some  material  was  downright 
misleading.  In  instructing  student  teach- 
ers, I  felt  coerced  into  participating  in 
fraud  by  attesting  to  non-existent  "compe- 
tencies" in  students  I  was  teaching. 

In  the  special-education  field,  the  dis- 
connection of  theory  from  practice  is  even 
more  bizarre:  Dr.  Gerald  S.  Coles's  monu- 
mental research  treatise  on  learning  dis- 
ability tests  (Harvard  Educational  Review, 
August  1978)  found  NOT  ONE  test  to 
have  proven  scientific  validity  for  identify- 
ing something  called  a  "learning  disabil- 
ity," and  that  we  are  in  effect  "blaming  the 


FEBRUARY  1985       37 


"The  solution  to  the  educational  problem  is 

NOT  more  money,  merit  pay,  teacher 
exams  or  the  like,  but  better  management 
of  education/ ' 


victim  for  institutional  failure."  What's 
most  alarming  is  that  his  paper  has  had  NO 
effect:  In  the  six  years  since  its  publication 
there  has  been  not  one  serious  rebuttal. 
But  special-education  "professionals" 
continue  to  use  the  tests  to  manipulate  the 
lives  of  children  and  to  assign  them  labels, 
supposedly  in  conformance  with  laws 
which  call  for  scientific  validation  of  tests 
used  to  determine  access  to  programs. 

It  seems  that  too  many  educators  ignore 
their  own  profession's  best  research.  They 
tend  to  treat  fervently  held  opinion  with 
the  same  reverence  as  scientific  fact,  and 
have  been  doing  so  for  so  long  that  they 
have  lost  the  ability  to  tell  the  difference! 
Such  inadequate  professional  training 
accounts  for  the  "mindlessness"  which 
Charles  Silberman  describes  in  Crisis  in 
the  Classroom  and  for  the  frenetic  flitting 
from  fad  to  fad  which  too  often  upsets 
without  upgrading,  e.g.,  modern  math. 


Figure  1 


</5 

Ot    9 

<  * 
J   2 
J 
O 

Q 

(*   - 

o  i 

vi  -* 
Z 

o 

J 

3   8 


< 

0 

4 

p 

4 

< 

p 

V 

/4- 

-6S 

b  i 

>b 

US 

F 

/i 

-2C 

c    ( 

>F 

GN 

p 

^ 

1950  '60  '70  '80  '90  2000  '10  '20  '30  '40  2050  '60 

YEAR 


Management  of 
Skill  Progressions 

Improper  teaching  methods  in  the  first 
grade  start  a  chain  of  "connections"  lead- 
ing large  numbers  of  our  young  to  reading 
failure,  frustration,  illiteracy,  delinquent 
behaviors  and,  too  often,  crime.  Psycholo- 
gists tell  us  repeatedly  that  learning  is  a 
joyful  experience.  The  psychotherapeutic 
value  of  a  successful  learning  experience 
has  been  praised  as  a  "virtually  unparal- 
leled emotional  discharge."  Yet,  this  "suc- 
cess therapy"  tends  to  be  underestimated 
or  ignored  by  the  educational  establish- 
ment. 

Mismanagement  of  students'  "time  on 
task"  and  of  their  learning  progressions 
(especially  in  the  basic  skills)  has  deprived 
far  too  many  of  the  pleasures  of  learning. 
Experiences  of  failure  bring  on  frustration 
and  a  poor  self-image  which  can  lead  to 
maladaptive  behaviors.  Students  become 
convinced  that  they  can  not  succeed  if  they 
play  by  establishment  rules,  and  so  seek 
alternatives  which  bring  them  personal 
satisfaction,  sometimes  at  establishment 
expense.  Poor  behavior  is  blamed  for  poor 
learning,  but  the  chicken  and  egg  relation- 
ship is  mostly  the  other  way  around. 

This  line  of  "connections"  would  be 
purely  speculative  were  it  not  for  the  exist- 
ence of  school  districts  managed  by  mas- 
tery learning  systems,  where  increased 
academic  success  has  been  accompanied 
by  dramatic  decreases  in  discipline  and 
vandalism  problems!  There  are,  as  well, 
mountains  of  depressing  data  showing 
high  rates  of  illiteracy  in  our  prisons,  and 
otherwise  linking  violent  behavior  with 
academic  deficiencies. 

In  management  parlance,  the  above  con- 
ditions are  a  result  of  operating  "open- 
loop,"  and  bespeak  the  need  to  control 
quality  (verify  learning).  Fortunately,  an 
active,  growing  program  is  available  as  a 
model:  the  Network  for  Outcome-Based 
Schools  (NOBS— a  cogent  acronym!).  It 
espouses  a  system  for  restructuring  entire 


school  districts  to  operate  on  a  mastery 
learning  basis.  Its  successes  need  to  be 
brought  to  the  attention  of  every  school 
district,  but  it  will  still  take  an  influx  of 
management  expertise  and  encouragement 
from  other  professions  to  effect  meaning- 
ful change. 

Reading:  The 
Pivotal  Issue 

At  the  core  of  the  problem  is  the  contro- 
versy over  how  to  teach  beginning  read- 
ing: phonics  (letter  sounds)  first  vs. 
whole-word  memorization  first.  You  may 
have  heard  educators  say  that  it  doesn't 
matter  about  the  method  "as  long  as  the 
teacher  is  good,"  or  they  may  advocate  an 
"eclectic"  method  (a  euphemism  for  a 
shotgun  approach). 

If  children  are  first  taught  to  memorize 
words  by  sight  without  identifying  letter 
sounds  ("sounding  out,"  "decoding"), 
they  are  being  conditioned  that  reading  is  a 
guessing  game  that  depends  on  the  teach- 
er's telling  them  each  new  word.  This 
approach  confines  children  to  a  limited 
reading  vocabulary  (approximately  300 
words  in  the  crucial  first  grade)  which 
allows  only  trivial  and  inane  (See  Spot 
run!)  material  to  be  handled. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  children  are  taught 
phonics  first,  they  view  each  new  word  as 
a  problem  they  can  solve  by  recovering  the 
spoken  word  from  the  "code."  A  problem- 
solving  attitude  is  fostered  early.  A  phon- 
ics-trained first  grader  can  read  about 
2,000  words!  [Some  authorities  put  the 
number  much  higher.] 

Let's  review  some  of  the  other  argu- 
ments so  that  you  can  be  prepared  to  deal 
with  them: 

a.  "Phonics  instruction  produces  'word- 
callers'  who  do  not  read  for  meaning." 
This  is  refuted  by  research  (see  below). 

b.  "English  is  too  irregular."  English  is  85 
to  90  percent  regular.  Several  computers 
have  been  "taught"  to  read  phonetically. 
The  human  brain  is  much  more  capable. 


38       WPI  JOURNAL 


'  '  Most  people  outside  of  education  assume 

that,  by  and  large,  the  educational  system 

knows  what  it's  doing  and  how  to  correct 

its  ills  if  given  more  re$ource$$$." 


c.  "Reading  is  a  psycholinguistic  guessing 
game.  A  child  should  not  be  corrected  if 
he  reads  'house'  for  'home'  or  'pony'  for 
'horse'  because  he's  'reading  for  mean- 
ing.' " 

d.  "A  child  should  be  encouraged  to  guess 
an  unknown  word  from  context  rather  than 
sound  it  out.  He  can  look  at  the  first  letter 
and  then  guess  from  the  length  and  'shape' 
of  the  word." 

As  a  foundation  for  precise  reading  (c) 
and  (d),  above,  are  patently  ridiculous, 
and  a  child  with  such  for  guidance  can't 
distinguish  between  "form"  and  "from," 
nor  can  he  be  sure  whether  the  boat  con- 
tains a  load  of  carp  or  crap! 

e.  "TV  is  to  blame  for  children  not  read- 
ing." This  is  another  chicken  and  egg 
argument:  The  printed  word  is  a  much  bet- 
ter entertainment  device  than  the  bulk  of 
TV  fare,  but  children  who  lack  confidence 
in  handling  new  reading  material  will  not 
attempt  it  as  pleasure. 

Even  though  you  may  think  sounding  out 
words  is  just  plain  common  sense  and 
nobody  would  do  it  any  other  way,  there 
are  thousands  of  teachers  who  have  been 
taught  that  "phonics  is  bad,"  and  who 
inflict  upon  parents  a  broadside  of  the 
above  arguments.  Reasons  favoring  phon- 
ics are: 

a.  The  most  basic  reading  reflex  is  to 
recover  speech  sounds  from  the  printed 
symbols,  thus  recovering  linguistic  struc- 
tures (syllables)  which  are  crucial  to  mean- 
ing. Whole-word  memorization  obscures 
linguistic  analogies  such  as  good: goodness 
=  bad:  badness. 

b.  A  phonics  method  fosters  an  analytical, 
problem-solving  approach  to  new  learning 
tasks;  a  word-memorization  approach  fos- 
ters guessing. 

c.  Whole-word  memorization  overloads 
the  memory  banks,  and  leaves  one  impo- 
tent in  expanding  one's  horizons  later  in 
life.  (I  see  older  students  and  adults,  with 
sight- word  habits,  who  flounder  in  unfa- 
miliar material.) 

d.  The  alphabet  is  one  of  civilization's 
most  powerful   inventions.    Sight-word 


methods  ignore  the  alphabetic  nature  of 
English. 

e.  Research  on  learning  shows  that  chil- 
dren do  not  initially  learn  whole  concepts, 
but  rather  learn  in  segments  in  a  "serial- 
apprehension"  fashion.  This  argues  that 
beginning  with  analysis  of  words  by  indi- 
vidual letters  is  more  in  keeping  with  chil- 
dren's actual  learning  modes. 

Studies  over  the  past  60  years  show  a 
preponderance  of  favor  for  initial  phonic- 
emphasis  methods.  Jeanne  Chall  (Harvard 
Graduate  School  of  Education,  probably 
the  foremost  reading  researcher  extant),  in 
her  latest  book,  Learning  to  Read:  The 
Great  Debate,  Updated  Edition,  comes 
down  squarely  in  favor  of  initial  structured 
phonics  upon  criteria  of  fluency,  compre- 
hension and  speed.  "...  the  research  of 
the  1970s  continues  to  support  beginning 
programs  that  are  code-oriented.  .  .  . 
Indeed  the  research  support  seems  even 
stronger  than  in  1967."  She  feels  it 
"...  disturbing  to  find  reputable  research- 
ers ..  .  and  teachers  claim  that  direct  phon- 
ics destroys  reading  for  meaning  when  the 
research  evidence  indicates  the  opposite." 

Much  fanfare  has  been  made  about 
teaching  comprehension  ("reading  for 
meaning"),  but  its  handling  makes  it  a 
red-herring  issue.  Not  that  comprehension 
isn't  important,  but  the  current  practice  of 
teaching  myriad  "comprehension  skills" 
obscures  the  real  problems:  inadequate 
decoding  skills  and  language  and  informa- 
tion deficits.  More  productive  would  be 
teaching  children  and  getting  them  to  think 
clearly. 

An  appropriate  analogy  is  that  of  aver- 
age adults  trying  to  read  a  book  on  brain 
surgery.  Although  they  may  be  able  to 
read  every  word,  they  would  comprehend 
little.  But  to  help  them  comprehend,  they 
would  look  not  for  a  reading  teacher  but 
rather  for  someone  who  knows  the  subject, 
to  teach  the  needed  vocabulary  and  con- 
tent. 

Despite  all  the  evidence,  three  out  of 
four  U.S.  schools  still  use  initial  whole- 
word  methods,  and  the  "establishment" 
continues  to  blame  failures  on  the  student. 


his  home  environment,  TV,  etc.  Senator 
Edward  Zorinsky  (D.,  Neb.)  in  introduc- 
ing Senate  Resolution  S.J.  138  to  examine 
teacher  training,  poses  the  question, 
"Why  has  remedial  reading  become  insti- 
tutionalized instead  of  training  teachers  to 
teach  it  right  in  the  first  place?" 

Part  of  the  reason  is  economic,  in  that 
certain  publishers  make  handsome  profits 
from  the  basal  readers  necessary  for 
whole-word  methods,  and  from  the  "spe- 
cial" materials  used  in  the  "remediation." 
(It  costs  little  to  equip  a  class  for  phonics: 
a  $12  manual,  paper,  chalk  and  a  teacher 
who  knows  what  he  or  she  is  doing.) 

There  is  much  anecdotal  evidence  of 
publishers'  wining  and  dining  of  textbook 
selection  committees,  particularly  in  states 
where  state-wide  uniformity  is  mandated, 
e.g.,  Texas.  It  is  not  uncommon  for  a  pub- 
lisher to  run  two  separate  versions  of  cru- 
cial texts  (one  just  for  Texas),  or  to  tailor 
his  national  product  toward  the  demands 
of  Texas. 

The  waters  are  muddied  still  further  by 
the  fact  that  so  many  of  the  same  anti- 
phonics  educators  who  serve  as  professors 
in  teacher-training  institutions  are  also 
leaders  in  professional  organizations  (e.g., 
the  International  Reading  Association)  and 
are  members  of  the  editorial  boards  of  the 
involved  publishers. 

Mathematics  and 
Science  Education 

Reading  is  the  basic  basic,  providing  the 
information-handling  capacity  needed  for 
mathematics  and  science.  I  have  been 
tutoring  a  high  school  senior  in  physics. 
She  is  a  bright  girl  who  is  applying  to  (and 
will  probably  be  accepted  by)  the  Massa- 
chusetts Institute  of  Technology  (MIT). 
She  attends  a  decent  private  school,  but 
has  trouble  reading  some  of  the  physics 
material,  because  she  lacks  phonic  skills 
for  attacking  unfamiliar  words.  I  see  many 
like  her. 
Everyone  knows  that  math  is  a  hierar- 


FEBRUARY  1985       39 


"You  may  think  sounding  out  words  is  just 

common  sense.  But  there  are  thousands  of 

teachers  who  have  been  taught  that 

*  phonics  is  bad/  " 


chically  structured  subject:  You  learn 
addition  before  subtraction  and  multiplica- 
tion before  division,  and  so  on.  But  the 
broader  spectrum  of  the  hierarchy  is  not 
understood  or  applied  by  many  teachers 
and  school  systems.  For  example:  Sub- 
traction with  "borrowing"  or  "regroup- 
ing" was  taught  to  me  in  terms  of  strictly 
mental  operations,  i.e.,  I  was  not  allowed 
to  write  any  extra  notations  on  the  paper  (I 
had  to  keep  thinking).  Contrast  this  with 
the  various  levels  of  auxiliary  marks  I  have 
seen  children  using  as  part  of  their  school- 
mandated  processes: 


12345 
-6789 


-6789 


^Lz3 
ftffi 


OJJff 


-6789 


5fS6>      tts-<p       SS&C 

Not  only  are  the  marked  regroupings  a 
non-thinking  and  time-consuming  proce- 
dure, but  can  you  imagine  what  it's  like 
doing  the  long-division  algorithm  when 
every  subtraction  operation  is  like  one  of 
those  at  the  right?!  Also,  some  students  are 
never  taught  short  division,  and  every  one- 
digit  division  is  performed  via  the  long 
division  algorithm. 

Fractions  is  another  key  level  of  hierar- 
chy, with  which  my  learning  center  spends 
more  time  than  any  other  math  item 
because  it  is  so  poorly  taught.  Common 
fractions  form  the  basis  for  understanding 
of  both  decimal  fractions  and  percentage. 
Algebra  and  trigonometry  use  the  fraction 
to  express  intrinsic  divisional  relation- 
ships, a  situation  which  becomes  incom- 
prehensible to  students  who  flounder  in 
fractions. 

I  have  spoken  with  a  number  of  math 
and  science  teachers  whose  chief  gripe 
was  pressure  from  the  administration  to 
pass  deficient  students  just  to  get  them  out. 
Students  perceive  these  situations,  and  use 
them  in  ways  which  deprive  good  teachers 
of  the  satisfaction  of  being  able  to  do  a 
good  job.  Improved  management  is 
needed  to  maintain  the  healthy  academic 
rigor  in  which  mathematics  and  science 
can  flourish. 


Remedies, 

Resources,  and 

References 

There  are  already  many  parents  and  parent 
groups  who  know  that  something  is 
wrong,  but  who  feel  impotent  against  the 
stonewalling  of  the  establishment.  There 
are  also  insightful  educators  inside  the  sys- 
tem, who  sometimes  can  do  little  reform- 
ing without  suffering  administrative 
reprisals. 

The  role  I  see  for  the  industrial/techno- 
logical community  is  that  of  infusing  the 
"excellence"  effort  with  professional 
expertise  and  leadership  through  critical 
advocacy  of  whatever  curricula  and  meth- 
ods can  stand  up  to  scientific  examination 
for  effectiveness.  The  intellectual  clout  of 
persons  who  are  skilled  in  the  management 
of  resources,  who  can  interpret  statistics, 
recognize  misuse  or  distortions  of  data, 
and  advocate  clearly  for  strategies  with 
proveable  pragmatics,  is  a  necessary  ele- 
ment of  national  efforts  for  enabling  chil- 
dren not  only  to  "learn  to  read,"  but  also  to 
"read  to  learn." 

To  provide  some  ammunition  for  par- 
ents and  "trapped  educators,"  consider  the 
following  recommendations: 

1.  Start  a  campaign  to  eliminate  the  gen- 
eral use  of  whole/sight-word  teaching  as 
an  initial  approach  to  reading.  Legislation 
may  become  necessary. 

2.  Press  local  school  administrators  to  jus- 
tify their  curriculum  choices  on  scientific 
grounds.  Reading  Reform  Foundation 
(RRF)  can  furnish  information  on  phonic- 
based  systems  which  have  good  track  rec- 
ords, and  evaluation  guidelines  and  brief 
tests  to  see  if  your  child  is  learning  to  read 
properly.  Members  of  the  Orton  Dyslexia 
Society  also  have  expertise. 

3.  Urge  your  school  board  to  investigate 
(possibly  emulate)  examples  of  good  edu- 
cational management,  such  as  the  Net- 
work for  Outcome-Based  Schools.  Con- 
sider also  the  "quality  control"  proposal 


formulated  by  the  National  Committee  for 
Citizens  in  Education  and  described  by 
Copperman  in  The  Literacy  Hoax, 
namely,  an  independent  group  to  manage 
all  testing  in  a  school  district,  responsible 
solely  to  the  Board  of  Education. 

4.  Get  to  know  and  support  other  organi- 
zations with  expertise  to  offer:  Feingold 
Association,  Fortune  Society,  Council  for 
Basic  Education,  National  Committee  for 
Citizens  in  Education. 

5.  Increase  the  use  of  nutrition  manage- 
ment (instead  of  drugs)  in  treating  hyper- 
active children  and  as  an  aid  in  optimizing 
student  performance  in  general. 

6.  Consider  support  for  Senate  Resolution 
SJ  138  for  a  National  Commission  on 
Teacher  Education,  and  other  means  of 
illuminating  important  problem  areas. 

7.  Above  all,  open  and  maintain  dialogue 
between  the  education  professionals  and 
the  professional/scientific  community. 
Form  study/action  coalitions  that  meet 
regularly.  As  a  starting  point,  I  can  pro- 
vide you  a  bibliography;  it  will  lead  your 
group(s)  to  more. 

Be  wary  of  "research"  writings  that  fly 
in  the  face  of  reason  and  common  sense. 
Get  in  to  the  nitty-gritties  of  curricula, 
learning  processes  and  testing  technolo- 
gies. (A  good  statistician  is  necessary 
here.)  There  are  good  educators  in  the  sys- 
tem who  can  help  root  out  ineffective  prac- 
tices, and  who  will  need  more  than  just 
moral  support  in  sensitive  areas  where  the 
establishment  defenses  will  be  up  to  pro- 
tect territorial  sacred  cows. 


After  25  years  in  engineering,  in  1970 
Charles  M.  Richardson,  P.E.  '46  EE, 
opened  a  basic-skills  learning  franchise. 
Learning  Foundations  Tutoring  Center,  in 
Dix  Hills,  NY.  He  holds  an  M.S.  in  educa- 
tion from  C.  W.  Post  College,  plus  three 
New  York  State  teaching  certificates.  In 
1983  he  returned  to  engineering  in  the 
radar  transmitter  section  ofSperry  Corpo- 
ration while  continuing  to  direct  Learning 
Foundations.  His  address  is  270  Deer 
Park  Avenue,  Dix  Hills,  NY  11746. 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President.  Harry  W.  Tenney,  "56 
Senior  Vice  President 

Paul  W.  Bayliss.  '60 
Vice  President 

Richard  B.  Kennedy.  '65 
Secretary-Treasurer 

Stephen  J.  Hebert.  '66 
Past  President.  Peter  H.  Horstmann.  '55 

Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 
Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank.  '46 
William  J.  Firla,  Jr.,  '60 
Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty,  '75 

Fund  Board 

Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59,  Chair 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin.  Jr.,  '56 
Richard  A.  Davis.  '53 
Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68 
C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39 
David  B.  Denniston,  '58 
Francis  W.  Madigan.  Jr. .  '53 
George  P.  Strom,  '56 


1925 


Reunion 


1930 


May  30- June  2, 1985 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


The  August  issue  of  the  Harvard  Business 
School  Bulletin  ran  an  update  on  Carl  Back- 
strom,  which  told  of  his  alumni  involvement  at 
WPI,  including  his  co-chairmanship  of  the  50th 
class  reunion  in  1980.  "Am  now  working  on 
letters  to  the  class  for  our  55th  in  1985,"  he 
says.  He  keeps  busy  with  traveling  and  garden- 
ing. 

Stanley  Pillion  writes,  "We  are  pleased  to  be 
back  in  the  East."  The  Fillions,  who  had  lived 
in  Illinois,  now  live  in  a  hillside  ranch  house 
surrounded  by  trees,  shrubs  and  flowering 
plants  in  Norwood,  MA.  Stan  recently  learned 
that  an  unbreakable   railroad  car  centerplate 


(corset)  that  he  designed  during  his  last  year  of 
employment  is  still  being  manufactured  by 
Dresser,  keeping  125  men  employed  continu- 
ously. 

George  Fitt,  who  retired  in  1972,  formerly 
owned  and  operated  apartment  complexes  in 
Fort  Lauderdale  and  Del  ray  Beach,  FL.  Earlier, 
he  had  been  in  the  restaurant  and  hotel  business 
as  manager  and  owner.  During  his  career,  he 
was  also  an  analytical  chemist  for  Molybdenum 
Corp.  of  America  in  York,  PA,  and  a  chemist  at 
Pacific  Print  Works,  Lawrence,  MA. 

Carl  Backstrom,  Class  Secretary 


1933 


Hugo  "Duke"  Borgatti,  who  lives  in  Dune- 
din,  FL,  is  one  of  many  who  says  he  had  a  great 
time  at  our  reunion,  his  first  since  our  5th.  He's 
kept  busy  since  his  1974  retirement  from 
Uniroyal  with  volunteer  work  three  days  a  week 
at  a  local  hospital.  He  traveled  some  with  his 
wife,  Kay,  until  her  death  in  1981,  and  he  con- 
tinues to  do  so  on  his  own. 

Duke  has  found  a  unique  way  to  see  the 
Canadian  Rockies,  the  Purcell  Mountains  in 
British  Columbia.  He  took  the  Tauck  Bugaboos 
tour  in  August  and  enjoyed  several  helicopter 
drops  and  pick-ups  each  day,  as  well  as  hikes 
on  glaciers,  mountain  tops  and  alpine  meadows 
with  flowers  in  bloom.  "Even  saw  a  beautiful 
rainbow  below  us  one  morning."  Duke  visits 
Art  Glow  and  John  Rigney  in  Massachusetts 
nearly  every  year. 

Ellis  Brown  writes  that  his  retirement  con- 
sists of  enjoying  the  same  "stuff  he's  been 
doing  for  years,  designing  and  building  in  the 
commercial  and  industrial  area,  but  at  a  more 
leisurely  and  selective  pace.  He  says  that  his 
operation  is  now  reduced  to  a  manageable  one- 
man  staff,  "and  surprisingly  enough  it  puts 
some  of  the  fun  back  into  the  construction  busi- 
ness." 

Barbara  and  Al  Brownlee  recently  made  a 
whirlwind  tour  through  Italy,  Switzerland  and 
France,  going  from  Rome  to  Paris  in  10  days  by 
train,  by  bus  and  on  foot.  After  getting  deep 
into  art,  religion  and  architecture,  and  into 
museums  and  cathedrals  and  basilicas,  "it  was 
a  welcome  relief  on  the  last  night  in  Paris  to 
take  in  the  exciting  show  at  the  famed  Moulin 
Rouge." 

Al  Fuller  and  his  wife,  Jean,  are  spending  a 
leisurely  retirement  in  East  Providence,  RI, 
where  he  is  still  active  in  the  Rotary  Club  and 
serves  his  church  as  a  deacon.  There  are  the 
usual  visits  with  children  and  grandchildren, 
and  special  this  year  was  the  recognition  he 
received  for  a  half  century  of  membership  in  the 


American  Chemical  Society,  as  well  as  recogni- 
tion as  a  50-year  Mason.  (Seems  like  you've 
been  around  a  long  time,  Al!)  He  also  continues 
his  interest  in  genealogy  and  is  treasurer  of  the 
Society  of  Mayflower  Descendants  in  Rhode 
Island. 

Art  Glow  retired  at  age  62  (way  back  in 
1973!)  after  nearly  thirty  years  at  the  East  Pep- 
perell  plant  of  the  Bemis  Co.,  where  he  was 
supervisor  of  machine  development,  procure- 
ment and  maintenance,  as  well  as  of  building 
construction  and  maintenance.  He  and  his  wife, 
Margaret,  traveled  extensively,  including  a 
week  high  up  in  the  Andes  and  another  camping 
on  the  Amazon.  In  July  of  '81,  she  suddenly 
became  ill  when  they  were  playing  golf,  and  in 
November  of  that  year  she  died.  Art  says  that 
although  he  has  the  "normal  amount  of  rattles, 
dents  and  loose  bearings,"  he  remains  busy 
keeping  house,  cutting  wood,  playing  golf,  gar- 
dening and  visiting  and  being  visited  by  three 
married  children  and  seven  grandchildren. 

Another  '33  graduate  who  is  enjoying  his 
retirement,  which  is  in  its  12th  year,  is  Linval 
Harvey,  who  spends  his  winters  in  Vero  Beach, 
FL,  and  his  summers  in  Swansea,  MA.  He  is  a 
sailor,  and  this  season  is  the  sixth  one  in  which 
he  and  his  wife  will  have  traveled  the  Inter- 
coastal  Waterway  between  Massachusetts  and 
Florida.  More  than  one  of  your  classmates 
surely  envies  you  in  this  endeavor,  Lin.  It  was 
good  to  hear  from  you. 

Here's  a  man  who  refuses  to  give  up  the  chal- 
lenge of  design  and  invention.  It's  John 
Magee,  who  was  just  issued  his  15th  patent. 
John's  firm  is  the  Elevator  Research  Co.  in 
New  York,  and  several  of  his  patents  have  been 
safety  oriented.  Based  on  his  own  experience, 
he  offers  in  his  letter  the  following  suggestions, 
"It  strikes  me  that  other  'antique'  engineers 
might  use  their  spare  time  to  rethink  safety 
implications  in  their  areas  of  expertise." 

Another  classmate  who  says  that  our  50th 
was  great  and  confesses  it  was  the  first  one  he'd 
attended  since  1938  is  Dick  Merrell.  Dick, 
who  lives  in  Walnut  Creek,  CA,  says  he'll  try 
to  get  to  our  55th  in  '88.  (Looks  like  we'd 
better  start  planning  for  a  good  crowd!)  Dick 
writes:  "I  play  golf  once  or  twice  a  week. 
Score's  not  too  good,  but  we  have  fun.  The  rest 
of  my  time  is  spent  keeping  our  yard  and  garden 
in  fair  shape.  Retirement  is  wonderful!" 

Sumner  "Sunny"  Norton  is  keeping  up 
with  the  times.  He  just  bought  an  IBM  PC  Jr., 
after  taking  an  introductory  course  in  com- 
puters, which  he  says  he  found  "interesting  but 
difficult."  Also,  he's  still  working,  finishing  his 
50th  year  with  Potdevin  Machine  Co.,  covering 
six  states  as  a  sales  agent!  He  evidently  hasn't 
been  listening  to  the  rest  of  us  (correction,  most 
of  us!)  praising  retirement. 


FEBRUARY  1985       41 


Our  class  was  represented  at  the  dedication  of 
a  new  materials  processing  lab  in  honor  of 
Arthur  Smith  at  the  newly  renovated 
Washburn  Shops  on  Oct.  19.  Art's  wife  and 
son,  Ken,  represented  him,  because  he  was 
unable  to  attend  due  to  illness.  We  also  had  a 
chance  to  see  the  very  spacious  and  useful 
classroom  on  the  third  floor,  which  was  made 
possible  by  our  50th  reunion  gift  to  WPI. 

Sumner  Sweetser  writes  that  retirement  con- 
tinues to  be  very  pleasant,  with  perhaps  the  best 
feature  being  the  freedom  to  set  one's  priorities. 
He  splits  his  time  between  New  Jersey  and 
Massachusetts,  with  occasional  visits  to  Florida 
and  Louisiana.  He  tells  of  a  whale  watch  out  of 
Plymouth  which  proved  exciting:  A  pair  of  the 
giant  mammals  "jumped  almost  clear  out  of  the 
water,  and  spouted  so  close  to  the  boat  as  to 
spray  the  passengers.  They  then  stood  on  their 
heads  as  they  dove  so  that  their  identifying 
markings  on  the  underside  of  their  huge  tails 
could  be  seen  clearly."  He  also  notes  that 
"whales  have  a  very  bad  breath." 

Jerry  Vail,  our  eminent  reunion  master  of 
ceremonies,  claims  he  and  Glad  haven't  done 
anything  spectacular  this  past  year,  but  that  it's 
still  been  enjoyable.  In  September  they  visited 
their  son,  Dave,  a  professor  of  economics  at 
Bowdoin  in  Brunswick,  ME.  Later,  they  cele- 
brated their  45th  wedding  anniversary  by 
spending  four  days  in  New  York  City,  where 
they  took  in  the  opera  at  the  Met,  the  new  Sea- 
port, the  Metropolitan  Museum  of  Art  and  the 
Broadway  show,  "My  One  and  Only."  They'll 
be  staying  in  Florida,  for  three  months  starting 
in  January.  Their  address  is:  52  Woodland 
Drive,  Apt.  201,  Vero  Beach,  FL  32962.  Tel. 
(305)  569-6646. 

Attending  the  55th  class  reunion  of  Worces- 
ter's South  High  were  Bob  Ferguson  and  John 
Dwyer  of  Worcester  and  George  Lyman  of 
Suffield,  CT.  If  Art  Smith  had  been  well,  he 


probably  would  have  attended,  too.  Bob  is  pres- 
ident of  the  South  High  Class  of  1929  and 
George  is  president  of  our  Class  of  1933. 

Participation  by  the  Class  of  '33  in  the  10 
a.m.  (monthly)  second-Thursday  Tech  Old- 
Timers  meetings  at  WPI  has  been  good. 
Among  those  attending  have  been  Ed  Allen,  Al 
Brownlee,  Norm  Clark,  Ed  Conway,  Tom 
Decker,  John  Dwyer,  Al  Glenn,  Ed  Johnson, 
Art  Klebart  and  George  Lyman. 

Your  secretary  is  enjoying  the  responses  he  is 
getting  to  the  recent  requests  for  news  and 
views  from  our  members.  He  will  soon  be  con- 
tacting those  we  haven't  heard  from,  since  our 
objective  is  to  get  everyone  into  the  act.  Inci- 
dentally, he  took  Sumner  Sweetser's  advice 
and  went  whale  watching  in  October  on  the 
Dolphin  out  of  Provincetown.  Just  as  Sumner 
described,  it's  fascinating! 

Al  Brownlee,  Class  Secretary 


1935 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


1937 

Allen  Benjamin,  who  retired  in  1980  as  a  pro- 
fessor in  WPI's  civil  engineering  department, 
had  a  show  featuring  his  watercolors,  "Travel 
Impressions,"  at  Babson  College  in  Wellesley, 
MA,  from  Oct.  18  to  Nov.  12.  He  began  paint- 
ing only  three  years  ago,  taking  classes  at  Arts/ 
Wayland.  Since  1982,  he  has  produced  more 
than  30  landscapes,  Indian  figures  and  por- 
traits. Prior  to  his  retirement,  he  had  also  served 
as  a  planning  consultant  with  the  Alliance  for 
Progress  for  many  years.  In  this  capacity,  he 


traveled  extensively  in  Central  America, 
recording  his  travel  impressions  in  a  photo- 
graphic slide  collection.  These  slides,  along 
with  New  England  photographs,  provided  the 
subject  matter  for  most  of  the  paintings  in  the 
Babson  exhibit,  his  fifth  exhibit  since  his  first  in 
the  Wayland  Public  Library  in  1983. 


1939 


Since  his  retirement  from  Norton  in  1983, 
Robert  Bergstrom  has  served  as  a  part-time 
consultant  for  industrial  distributors.  He  has  an 
MBA  from  Harvard. 


1940 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Clark  Goodchild  continues  with  his  volunteer 
computer  work  in  the  administrative  office  at 
Beverly  (MA)  Hospital.  He  also  likes  photogra- 
phy and  amateur  radio.  He  is  a  licensed  opera- 
tor, and  his  radio  call  letters  are  KA1ACM.  A 
few  years  ago  he  had  six  antique  cars,  but  now 
is  down  to  one,  a  1931  Model  A  Ford  roadster. 
He  enjoys  repairing  aluminum  lawn  chairs  for 
friends.  Instead  of  charging  for  the  service,  he 
asks  the  owners  to  donate  to  the  Church  in  the 
Cove.  At  one  time,  he  wrote  a  column  for  the 
Beverly  Times  called  "Aviation  News." 


1942 


Recently,  Paul  Disario  was  project  director  for 
the  demolition  of  the  old  brick  Stamford,  CT, 


Homecoming  '84:  Four  of  WPI 's  greatest  athletes  and  1984  Hall  of  Fame  inductees,  before  a  record  Homecoming  crowd  at 
Alumni  Field. 


42       WPI  JOURNAL 


railroad  station.  This  year,  with  the  expenditure 
of  $50  million  of  federal,  state  and  city  funds,  a 
new  aluminum,  concrete  and  steel  depot  will  be 
completed  over  the  railroad's  four  tracks. 


1945 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Francis  Johnson  serves  as  chief  engineer  at 
Smith  Valve  Corp.,  Westboro,  MA. 

The  Rev.  Edward  Swanson  has  been  interim 
rector  of  St.  Andrew's  Church,  Kansas  City, 
MO,  since  May  1 .  He  writes  he  expects  to  hold 
the  post  for  one  or  two  years. 


1946 


Gary  Hovhanesian  has  retired  after  38  years  in 
GE  Housewares,  following  the  sale  of  that  busi- 
ness. He  says,  "After  making  all  the  house 
repairs  long  overdue,  I'll  try  to  keep  busy  either 
teaching  or  consulting." 


1947 


Philip  Scott  writes  that  he  is  in  his  28th  year 
with  Pratt  and  Whitney's  Government  Products 
Division  near  West  Palm  Beach,  FL.  He  serves 
as  a  project  engineer  in  the  advanced  engine 
design  group,  specializing  in  high  technology 
exhaust  nozzles  for  AF  fighter  aircraft  engines. 
His  earlier  work  was  with  the  AF's  airborne 
high-energy  laser,  NASA's  Space  Shuttle  main 
engine,  and  the  J-58  and  F- 100  jet  engines.  He 
says  he  and  his  wife,  Betty,  are  looking  forward 
to  his  retirement  "quite  soon." 


1948 


Frank  Holby,  manager  of  compensation  for 
Ozalid  Corp.,  of  Binghamton,  NY,  was  the 
author  of  "How  to  Avoid  the  Comparable 
Worth  Trap,"  which  appeared  in  the  June  issue 
of  Personnel  Administrator.  He  has  an  MBA 
from  Columbia  University. 

A.S.  Kelsey  works  for  Grumman  Aerospace 
Corp.,  Bethpage,  NY. 

Edwin  Strain  is  retired  from  Dayton  Power 
&  Light  in  Ohio. 


1950 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


John  Cocker  is  a  member  of  the  technical  staff 
with  Bell  Communications  Research  in  Red 
Bank,  NJ. 

Raymond  Costine  continues  as  director  of 
process  engineering  at  Cryovac,  Duncan,  SC. 
He  has  been  with  the  firm,  a  division  of  W.R. 
Grace  &  Co. ,  for  25  years. 

Andre  Tasso  has  won  the  best  paper  in  cor- 
porate and  organizational  management  from  the 
Foundation  for  Administrative  Research,  with 
the  support  of  the  Society  for  North  American 
Corporate  Planning.  His  paper,  entitled  "The 


Outrigger  Principle:  A  'New'  Model  for 
Dynamic  Stability  and  Continuity  in  Manage- 
ment and  Government,"  was  presented  at  the 
Academy  of  Management's  annual  meeting  in 
Boston  in  August. 


1951 


Alan  Hansen  works  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
Medsker  Electric  in  Farmington,  MI. 

Donald  Lewis  is  general  sales  manager  for 
Uniroyal  Inc.,  Middlebury,  CT. 

Frank  MacPherson  was  recently  named 
head  of  the  special  business  section  of  the  West- 
field  (NJ)  United  Fund.  Currently  he  serves  as  a 
member  of  the  United  Fund  board  of  trustees. 
He  also  has  been  a  member  of  the  town  council 
and  president  of  the  Y's  Men's  Club  and  the 

All  in  the  Family 

When  Lincoln  Thompson  '21  (MS  '23), 
trustee  emeritus,  and  his  wife,  Anna,  cele- 
brated their  60th  wedding  anniversary  last 
summer,  three  generations  of  Thompsons 
came  together  under  one  roof— all  WPI 
graduates!  Besides  Lincoln,  there  were  his 
son,  Ronald,  Sr.  '52  and  his  son,  Ronald,  Jr. 
'83. 

"It  was  like  a  family  reunion  and  WPI 
mini-reunion  rolled  up  in  one,"  says  Ronald, 
Sr. ,  who  hosted  the  anniversary  party  at  his 
home  in  Madison,  CT,  Aug.  25. 

Also  on  hand  for  the  festivities,  were  Lin- 
coln's cousin,  Milton  Ekberg  '32  and  his 
grandnephew,  Roland  Brooks  '79  (MS  '84). 
Other  guests  included  Robert  Chapman  '21 
and  Harold  Berg  '20. 

Lincoln  Thompson,  a  pioneer  in  the 
sound  recording  industry,  originally  worked 
for  the  Victor  Talking  Machine  Company, 


local  Jaycees. 

John  Seguin,  an  account  executive  for  Nor- 
ton Co.,  Worcester,  resides  in  Newport  News. 
VA. 

Donald  White  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Norton 
Co.  in  Livonia.  MI. 


1953 


Alfred  Bafaro,  owner  of  Four  Oak  Realty 
Trust  and  Albro  Construction  Co., 
Framingham,  MA,  has  been  building  condo- 
minium complexes  for  nearly  18  years.  His 
most  recent  endeavor  is  the  construction  of  Bol- 
ton Oaks  Condominium,  a  $24  million,  340- 
unit  community  in  Clinton,  MA. 

Francis  "Bud"  Madigan,  president  of  Wor- 
cester's FW.  Madigan  Co.  Inc.,  is  president  of 

which  became  RCA.  He  was  a  founder  of 
the  Soundscriber  Corp.  in  New  Haven  and 
later  became  president  and  CEO  of  Ray- 
mond Engineering  in  Middletown.  He 
retired  from  Raymond  in  1968,  after  leading 
the  company  for  15  years. 

His  son,  Ronald,  Sr.,  is  the  founder  and 
president  of  TAT  Engineering  of  North 
Branford.  He  designed,  manufactured  and  is 
currently  distributing  a  line  of  pumps  for 
industrial  purposes.  Grandson  Ronald  works 
for  the  United  Bank  in  Denver. 

Milton  Ekberg  is  president  and  treasurer 
of  his  own  business,  Abrasives  and  Tools 
Inc..  West  Springfield,  MA.  Roland  Brooks 
is  involved  with  computer  graphics  at  Syner- 
mation  Inc.,  Wobum,  MA. 

Harold  Berg  has  retired  as  head  of  Stone 
and  Berg,  the  family  lumber  business  in 
Worcester,  and  Robert  Chapman  is  retired  as 
chairman  of  the  board  of  R.E.  Chapman 
Co.,Oakdale,  MA. 


60th  anniversary  guests:  Lincoln  Thompson,  r.f. ,  Harold  Berg,  if. ;  standing  I.  to  r. 
Ronald  Thompson,  Sr. ,  Milton  Ekberg,  Ronald  Thompson,  Jr. ,  and  Roland  Brooks. 


FEBRUARY  1985       43 


the  15-member  Worcester  General  Building 
Contractors  Association.  Also,  he  is  active  in 
the  Associated  General  Contractors  of  Massa- 
chusetts and  in  its  10.000-member  Associated 
General  Contractors  of  America.  An  article 
spotlighting  Madigan  and  his  company 
appeared  in  the  April  issue  of  Business  Digest 
of  Central  Massachusetts. 


1954 


Donald  Ross  has  been  promoted  to  president  of 
MPB  Corporation.  Keene,  NH.  He  is  responsi- 
ble for  MPB's  divisions,  including  Miniature 
Precision  Bearings  of  Keene.  Split  Ballbearing 
and  New  Hampshire  Industries  of  Lebanon, 
NH.  Andrews  Bearing  Company.  Spartanburg. 
SC.  MPB  Europa  in  the  Netherlands,  and  an 
affiliate  company.  Pneumo  Precision  Inc..  also 
of  Keene.  Prior  to  his  promotion,  he  had  held 
several  divisional  management  posts.  He  has 
served  as  a  director  and  president  of  the  Leba- 
non Chamber  of  Commerce  and  as  a  director  of 
the  National  Bank  of  Lebanon.  United  Way, 
Lebanon  Industrial  Development  Association 
and  the  local  Boy  Scout  council.  Don  is  a 
former  executive  vice  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  and  a  past  chairman  of 
Alumni  Publications  Committee;  he  now  serves 
on  the  Association's  Budget  Audit  Committee. 


1955 


Reunion 


May  30- June  2, 1985 


Stanley  Clevenger  is  president  of  Walston 
Woodcraft  in  Spofford,  NH.  He  holds  an  MBA 
from  Northeastern. 


1956 


Michael  Gordon  has  been  named  senior  direc- 
tor of  product  marketing  at  the  Kearfott  Divi- 
sion of  the  Singer  Company.  He  is  responsible 
for  directing  the  division's  domestic  product- 
applications  marketing  functions  and  the  field 
marketing  departments. 

John  Nash  holds  the  post  of  safety  and  envi- 
ronmental manager  at  Koppers  Co.  Inc.. 
Cicero.  IL. 

Roy  Stone  is  supervisor  of  software  engi- 
neering at  DEC.  Merrimack,  NH. 


1957 


John  Braley  holds  the  post  of  regional  sales 
manager  for  Information  Handling  Services  in 
Santa  Ana,  CA. 

Daniel  Fisher,  Jr.  of  Chelmsford.  MA,  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  development  engi- 
neering at  BTU  Engineering  Corporation.  The 
company  produces  manufacturing  equipment, 
software  and  controls  for  the  semiconductor, 
electronics  packaging  and  specialty  materials 
industries.  Fisher  has  responsibility  for  BTU's 
product  development  in  areas  that  include  diffu- 
sion and  furnace  automation,  gas  system  elec- 
tronics and  continuous  process  furnaces.  Previ- 


ously, he  was  an  engineering  manager  at 
Design  Technology  Corporation,  working  on 
the  automation  of  high-speed  testing  machines. 
Also,  he  was  a  project  manager  at  Leesona 
Corp.  and  General  Dynamics.  He  is  a  certified 
manufacturing  engineer. 

Donald  Girard  is  employed  at  Raytheon 
Co.,  Bedford,  MA. 

Joseph  Weber  is  assistant  materials  project 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  West 
Palm  Beach,  FL. 


1959 


Fred  Blonder  owns  F&M  Electronics/Radio 
Shack  in  Jay,  ME. 

George  Fotiades  is  co-owner  of  the  Webster 
House  Restaurant  in  Worcester.  The  restaurant, 
which  serves  800  to  1000  customers  daily,  is 
2lh  times  larger  than  it  was  in  1978. 

Winthrop  Wassenar  has  been  named  a 
director  of  the  Bank  of  New  England-Berkshire 
County  in  Williamstown,  MA.  He  is  director  of 
physical  plant  at  Williams  College.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  has  done  gradu- 
ate work  at  MIT. 


1960 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Dr.  John  Haavisto  is  slated  to  be  the  guest 
speaker  on  March  14  at  a  meeting  of  the  1984- 
85  seminar  series  planned  by  the  Boston  chapter 
of  the  IEEE  Quantum  Electronics  and  Applica- 
tions Society.  Haavisto,  a  senior  technical  staff 


member  of  the  Northrop  Corporation,  Nor- 
wood, MA,  will  discuss  "Laser  Gyros  Using 
Integrated  and  Fiber  Optics." 


1961 


Edmund  Wozniak  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  the  Sterling  Die 
Operation  of  the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Machine  Tool 
Division  of  Colt  Industries  Inc.,  Cleveland, 
OH.  Since  1979.  he  has  been  manager  of  manu- 
facturing services  and  materials  at  the  P&W 
machine  tool  division  plant  in  West  Hartford, 
CT.  He  joined  the  machine  tool  division  as  a 
plant  engineer  in  1968  and  subsequently  served 
as  supervisor  of  technical  plans  and  services, 
manager  of  manufacturing  systems  and  man- 
ager of  planning  and  product  development.  He 
has  an  MBA  from  Babson  College. 

Rimas  Zinas  has  been  named  technology 
program  manager  of  control  systems  and 
energy  at  Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation. 


1962 


William  Shepherd  is  now  assistant  vice  presi- 
dent for  information  services  at  Citicorp,  New 
York  City. 


1963 


Dr.  Harry  Hoyen  of  Eastman  Kodak  Research 
Labs,  delivered  an  invited  paper  at  the  East- 
West  Symposium  on  the  Fundamentals  of  Pho- 


"The  beauty  of  this  system  is  that  Substance  'A'  is  perfectly  harmless,  and  Substance  'B' 
is  perfectly  harmless,  and  only  if  they  mix  together  .  .  .  oops.  ..." 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


tographic  Imaging  in  Hawaii  in  November.  The 
meeting  was  composed  of  about  100  scientists 
and  engineers,  most  from  Japan.  China  and  the 
U.S.  In  November  1985.  he  will  serve  as  gen- 
eral chairman  of  the  Symposium  on  Imaging 
Science  in  Washington.  DC.  Four  areas  will  be 
discussed:  Graphic  arts-prepress:  education  in 
imaging  sciences:  image  analysis:  and  elec- 
tronic imaging— analog  to  digital  /digital  to  ana- 
log systems. 

Dr.  Richard  Iacobucci.  as  director  of  the 
Nature  Preserve  Inc..  a  wildlife  sanctuary  in 
Pembroke.  MA.  has  announced  the  expansion 
of  the  preserves  holdings  to  70  acres,  including 
22  acres  of  undisturbed  woodland.  He  says 
classmates  living  in  the  area  are  welcome  to 
inquire  about  free  membership  for  picnicking, 
camping  or  jogging  on  the  extensive  trails. 
Tel. :  617-826-8888. 

Robert  Jamaitis  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  operations  at  Norden  Systems. 
Norwalk.  CT.  He  will  provide  management 
direction  overall  Norwalk  operations  activities, 
including  manufacturing,  manufacturing-engi- 
neering, production  programs  and  administra- 
tion, production  planning  and  control,  materi- 
als, plant  engineering  and  product  assurance. 
Also,  he  will  provide  functional  management 
direction  for  all  operating  units,  including 
United  Space  Boosters  Inc.  and  Chemical  Sys- 
tems. 

Richard  Marcy,  Jr.  is  vice  president  of  the 
First  National  Bank  of  Boston. 

Steve  Mozden  is  senior  engineer  for  prelimi- 
nary design  at  Hamilton  Standard.  Windsor 
Locks.  CT.  Last  year,  he  received  his  MBA 
from  Western  New  England  College. 

Arthur  Pratt  continues  as  principal  engineer 
at  Edwards  &  Kelcey  in  Liv  ingston.  NJ. 

John  Slovak  is  with  The  Water  Factory  in 
Costa  Mesa.  CA. 


1965 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2,  1985 


Robert  Cahill  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  the  Manufacturers"  Association  of 
Delaware  Valley  in  Pennsylvania. 

Jim  Fee  is  the  founder  of  Data  Innovations  in 
Lowell.  MA. 


1966 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Hebert  and  Carol  Pnce 
on  October  26.  1984.  in  West  Boylston.  MA. 
Tom  Benoit  was  a  member  of  the  wedding 
party.  Carol.  WPI  events  coordinator,  gradu- 
ated from  Becker  Junior  College  and  attended 
Worcester  State  College.  Steve  is  director  of 
development  and  alumni  relations  at  WPI. 

Brian  Gallagher  works  as  a  sales  engineer 
forGE  in  Charlottesville.  VA. 


1967 


Charles  Blanchard  is  environmental  products 
manager  at  CPC  Engineering  Corp.. 
Sturbridge.  MA.  One  of  the  firms  products  is 
the   Tntemalift."  a  machine  that  can  lift  large 


Heikki  Elo  at  work. 

Fuel  Pellets  From 
Garbage — Wave  of 
the  Future? 

Heikki  Elo  '50  CE.  president  of  Lehigh 
Forming  Co.  of  Easton.  PA.  has  a  really 
"neat"  idea  for  disposal  of  solid  wastes. 
Instead  of  using  land-gobbling  landfills, 
which  have  no  payback,  why  not  use  a 
waste-to-fuel-to-energy  system,  which 
takes  up  less  space  and  pays  off  in  fuel? 

His  firm.  Lehigh  Forming  Co..  turns 
solid  wastes  into  fuel  pellets.  "We  offer  a 
service  that  is  a  viable  alternative  to  land- 
fills." he  says.  The  firm  takes  waste  and 
mechanically  separates  materials.  Then, 
the  combustibles  are  extruded  into  pellets 
to  be  used  as  fuel  in  year-round  steam- 
employing  operations. 

Although  his  company  does  not  collect 
waste,  it  is  under  contract  with  its  cus- 
tomers to  deliver  the  fuel  pellets,  install 
the  necessary  boiler  equipment  and  haul 
away  the  resulting  ashes.  It  offers  a  much 

flows  of  water,  other  liquids  and  solid-liquid 
mixtures  to  heights  of  40  feet  or  more.  Interna- 
lift  is  used  in  the  environmental  and  industrial 
waste  removal  fields. 

Curtis  Carlson  was  recently  promoted  to 
director  of  information  systems  research  by 
RCA.  where  he  has  responsibilities  in  artificial 
intelligence,  home  computers  and  communica- 
tions networks.  Previously  he  was  head  of  digi- 
tal image  processing  and  high-definition  TV 
research  and  worked  in  physical  optics  at  RCA 
Laboratories  in  Princeton.  NJ.  He  has  a  PhD  in 
geophysical  fluid  dynamics. 

Dr.  Richard  Gutkowski.  associate  professor 
of  civil  engineering  at  Colorado  State  Univer- 
sity, has  been  appointed  chairman  of  the  admin- 


faster  disposal  time  than  conventional  dis- 
posal methods. 

"Only  about  25  percent  of  the  waste  we 
process  is  returned  to  landfills."  Elo  says. 
"And  that  is  material  which  cannot  be 
made  into  pellets,  or  ashes  resulting  from 
pellet  combustion."  About  5  to  10  percent, 
he  notes,  are  ferrous  metals,  which  are 
recovered  and  sold  back  to  scrap  yards. 

Elo.  who  has  published  many  papers  for 
the  Governor's  Council,  the  Pennsylvania 
Academy  of  Science,  the  ASCE  and 
Lehigh  University,  is  looking  toward 
medium-sized  communities  as  he  plans  for 
the  expansion  of  Lehigh  Forming.  "There 
is  already  one  operating  plant  in  Easton." 
he  says.  "Two  boilers  have  been  installed 
there  using  fuel  pellets  to  produce  steam 
for  a  food-processing  plant.  And  negotia- 
tions are  under  way  w  ith  other  steam 
users." 

Response  to  the  Lehigh  Forming  Sys- 
tem has  been  overwhelming,  according  to 
Elo.  "Garbage  disposal  is  a  worldwide 
problem."  he  says.  "We've  received  inqui- 
ries from  as  far  aw  ay  as  the  U .  S .  S .  R ." 

istrative  committee  on  bridges  of  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  The  committee 
directs  national  efforts  related  to  bridges  by 
promoting  better  design  and  construction, 
encouraging  needed  research  and  effecting 
technology  transfer  pertinent  to  engineering  and 
safety  requirements.  Gutkowski  has  done 
research  on  glued  laminated  timber  bridges  and 
recently  led  a  national  inspection  team  which 
examined  experimental  Forest  Service  timber 
bridges  in  seven  states. 

Paul  Kennedy,  general  manager  of  Kennedy 
Die  Castings.  Worcester,  has  been  elected  sec- 
ond vice  president  of  the  Society  of  Die  Casting 
Engineers  (SDCE).  a  Chicago-area  based  pro- 
fessional group  representing  the  industry  mter- 


FEBRL'ARY  1985       45 


Homecoming  '84:   Gerry  Buzanoski  '74 
with  sons  Timothy  and  Todd,  under  the 
spell  of  magician  Steve  Dacri  '74. 

nationally  Active  with  SDCE  New  England  for 
10  years  in  numerous  positions,  in  1978  he 
became  a  national  director.  He  had  served  as 
chairman  of  the  education  committee  and  as  a 
member  of  the  publications  and  constitution 
b>laws  committees.  In  1983.  he  was  elected 
SDCE  secretary. 

Alan  Larson  serves  as  analy  st  of  computer 
techniques  forGE  in  Burlington.  VT. 

Jack  Rahaim  has  been  named  corporate 
manager  of  personnel  systems,  administration 
and  finance  at  Digital  Equipment  Corporation. 
A  DEC  employee  since  1980.  Jack  was  most 
recemly  corporate  manager  of  personnel  admin- 
istration. Previously,  he  worked  as  a  technical 
product  manager  and  planner  in  the  building 
controls  industry.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the 
University  of  New  Haven. 

George  Rand.  Jr.  is  employed  at  Union  Car- 
bide in  Long  Beach.  CA. 


1968 


Currently.  Donald  Bergstrom  serves  as  project 
engineering  manager  for  Cianbro  Corp..  Wind- 
sor Locks.  CT.  covering  construction  projects 
in  Connecticut  and  Western  Massachusetts. 

Israel  Mac  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of 
Mac  Steel  Co..  Rutland.  VT.  He  and  Bene 
reside  in  Pittsford  and  have  two  children. 


1969 


Robert  Magarian  serves  as  plant  manager  at 
Lloyd  Mfg.  Co.  in  Warren.  RI. 

Ronald  Roberts  is  engineering  manager  for 
AT&T  Technologies  Inc.  in  Newark.  NJ. 

Frederick  Spreter  holds  the  position  of  dis- 
trict manager  for  the  Masoneilon  Division  in 
Houston. 


1970 


Reunion 


September  28,  1985 


MARRIED:     Alexander     Murdoch     and 

Claudia  Zawilinski  on  September  8.  1984.  in 
Gloversville.  NY.  Claudia,  a  graduate  of 
Amsterdam  High  School,  serves  as  a  senior 
programmer  at  GE  in  Schenectady,  where  Mur- 
doch is  employed  as  an  application  engineer. 

Joe  Cascio  walks  for  Cadre  Tech.  Inc.. 
Providence.  RI. 

Roger  Etherington  is  now  senior  technical 
service  representative  for  Vulcan  Chemical  in 
Birmingham.  AL. 

Domenic  Forcella  has  resigned  as  executive 
director  of  the  Connecticut  Council  on  Environ- 
mental Quality.  While  with  the  council. 
"Dom"  was  concerned  with  a  number  of 
issues,  including  hazardous  waste,  drinking 
water  contamination  and  solid  waste.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  studying  for  a  PhD  in  environmen- 
tal design  and  planning  at  Virginia  Polytechnic 
Institute,  where  he  is  doing  research  on  the  pub- 
lic's perceptions  of  hazardous  waste  facilities. 

John  Garrity  was  recently  named  manager 
of  the  Maine  Yankee  nuclear  power  plant  in 
Wiscasset.  With  the  Central  Maine  Power  Co. 
since  1970.  he  began  his  career  with  Maine 
Yankee  two  years  prior  to  the  plant's  comple- 
tion. He  served  as  an  assistant  engineer  in  the 
reactor  and  computer  engineering  department 
and  worked  on-site  through  the  plant's  con- 
struction and  start-up.  In  1981.  he  was  named 
senior  director  of  nuclear  engineering  licensing 
at  Maine  Yankees  Augusta  headquarters. 

Chip  Hassett  has  joined  Environmental 
Resources  Management  Inc..  Washington.  DC. 
as  manager  of  engineering  design.  His  special- 
ties are  engineering  design  of  wastewater  treat- 
ment facilities,  wastewater  collection  and  trans- 
mission systems,  industrial  waste  treatment 
facilities  and  water  management  systems. 

Bradford  Myrick  is  a  senior  engineer  at 
Northern  Research  &  Engineering  Corp.. 
Wobum,  MA. 

Kenneth  Oberg  is  a  senior  management  ana- 
lyst for  Florida  Power  &  Light  in  Miami. 

Roger  Wilson  wrote  "Study  for  Decommis- 
sioning Coal-fired  Power  Plants."  which 
appeared  in  the  August  issue  of  Power  Engi- 
neering. 


1971 


.MARRIED:  John  Oscarson  and  Martha  Parry 
on  September  15.  1984.  in  Mystic.  CT.  She 
received  her  bachelor's  degree  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania  School  of  Occupational 
Therapy  and  her  masters  from  UConn.  She  is 
an  environmental  designer  in  North  Kingston 
for  the  state  of  Rhode  Island.  He  is  a  research 
engineer  at  Pfizer  Inc..  Groton.  CT. 

Michael  Kajen  has  joined  the  Bloomsburg 
(PA)  University  faculty  as  assistant  professor  of 
computer  and  information  science.  Previously, 
he  was  a  database  analyst  at  the  University  of 
Massachusetts.  He  holds  an  MS  in  computer 
and  information  science  from  UMass. 

Paul  Pakus  serves  as  branch  supervisor  at 
the  Naval  Ocean  Svstems  Center  in  San  Diego. 
CA. 

Michael  Santora.  previously  a  consulting 
engineer  with  Shoenfield  Associates  Inc.  of 
Boston,  has  been  appointed  town  engineer  in 
Milford.  MA.  A  registered  engineer,  he  was 
formerly  assistant  to  the  Holden  town  engineer. 

Fred  Szufnarowski  was  recently  promoted 


to  senior  engineer  in  the  generation  engineering 
department  at  Northeast  Utilities.  He  holds 
degrees  from  WPI  and  UMass.  Amherst. 


1972 


Michael  Rapport  is  an  assistant  actuary  at 
Penn  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co..  Philadelphia. 
The  Fiberoptic  Division  of  Augat  Inc..  Attle- 
boro.  MA.  has  announced  the  appointment  of 
Robert  Roland  as  interconnection  develop- 
ment engineer.  Formerly,  he  was  senior  project 
engineer  at  Brewer  Engineering  Laboratories,  a 
unit  of  Teled\ne  Engineering  Services. 


1973 


MARRIED:  Garry  Boynton  to  Debra  Arber- 
dale  in  Housatonic.  MA.  on  August  11.  1984. 
Debra  has  a  bachelor's  degree  in  nursing  from 
Russell  Sage  College.  Troy.  NY.  Garry  is  an 
environmental  chemist  for  the  state  of  New 
York. 

William  Ault  holds  the  post  of  supervisor  of 
product  engineering  at  Norton  Co..  Worcester. 

Dave  Cirka  writes  that  he  has  "made  it  to  the 
top."  On  June  18.  he  and  11  companions 
reached  the  20.320-ft.  summit  of  Alaska's  Mt. 
McKinle>.  the  highest  peak  on  the  continent. 
The  ascent  took  13  days,  the  descent  2  days.  He 
says  that  in  his  dreams,  the  climb  began  12 
years  ago  w  hen  he  joined  the  WPI  Outing  Club, 
where  his  "appetite  was  whetted  for  the  vertical 
parts  of  the  world." 

Ronald  Lak  is  a  facility  engineer  at  Uniroyal 
Chemical  in  Gastonia.  NC. 

William  Mawdsley  was  recently  elected  sec- 
ond vice  president  and  actuary  at  State  Mutual 
in  Worcester.  He  joined  State  Mutual  in  1973. 
was  named  associate  actuary  in  1978  and  assis- 
tant vice  president  in  1981 .  He  is  a  fellow  of  the 
Society  of  Actuaries,  a  chartered  life  under- 
writer and  a  chartered  financial  consultant. 

Robert  Nacheman  has  been  named  an  asso- 
ciate of  the  affiliated  organizations  of  Lev 
Zetlin  Associates  Inc.  and  Thomton-Tomasetti. 
Engineers  and  Designers,  in  New  York.  He  has 
been  involved  in  the  design  and  administration 
of  several  projects,  including  the  S85  million. 
40-story  Continental  Center  in  New  York  City. 

Edward  Peczynski  has  been  promoted  to 
manager  of  process  computer  engineering  at 
Northeast  Utilities'  general  offices  in  Berlin. 
CT.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1973  as  an  assistant 
engineer  in  the  System  Planning  Department. 
Prior  to  his  promotion,  he  was  manager  of 
information  resources  planning  and  controls. 
Earlier  he  had  been  supervisor  of  engineering 
computer  services  and  senior  engineer  in  engi- 
neering software  and  development.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  has  an  MS  from 
RPI. 


1974 


MARRIED:  Michael  Graham  and  Theresa 
Ritter  in  Quechee.  VT.  on  August  18.  1984. 
She  graduated  from  Regis  College  in  Denver. 
CO.  with  a  degree  in  psychology  and  from 
Albany  (NY)  Medical  Center  as  a  physician's 


WPI  JOURNAL 


assistant.  He  is  an  associate  consultant  with  the 
Wyatt  Company,  actuaries  and  consultants,  in 
Wellesley  Hills,  MA.  .  .  .  John  Mathews  and 
Barbara  Allen  of  Enfield,  CT,  on  October  13, 
1984.  Barbara  graduated  from  Wesleyan  Uni- 
versity. John,  who  is  a  senior  engineer  at  North- 
east Utilities,  recently  passed  his  professional 
engineer  licensing  exam  in  Connecti- 
cut. .  .  .  Steven  Quist  to  Wanda  Burton  in  West 
Boylston,  MA.  on  July  7,  1984.  Wanda 
attended  Evangel  College  and  graduated  from 
Atlantic  Union  College,  Lancaster,  MA.  She  is 
an  RN  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  Worcester. 
Steve  graduated  from  Wentworth  Institute  and 
Fitchburg  State  College.  He  is  employed  by 
C.R.  Quist,  Contractor. 

In  April,  Boston  Magazine  quoted  Garry 
Balboni.  project  manager  for  the  Perini  Corpo- 
ration, concerning  the  transformation  of  Har- 
vard Square,  Cambridge,  during  the  Red  Line 
construction  project. 

Stephen  Rubin  is  president  of  Intellution 
Inc.,  which  he  founded  in  Westwood,  MA,  in 
1980.  The  company's  expertise  ranges  from 
system  design  and  integration  of  small  real-time 
systems  to  custom  software  packages  for  a  wide 
variety  of  applications.  Typical  of  the  products 
offered  by  Intellution  is  its  fully  integrated  con- 
trol systems  software  called  "The  Fix."  It  pro- 
vides big-system  process  control  and  monitor- 
ing capability  with  a  personal  computer-sized 
system.  Rubin  has  lectured  on  industrial  control 
using  microcomputers  and  contributed  to  777? 
Layman  's  Dictionary  of  Computer  Science. 

Ron  Sarver  continues  as  president  of  New 
England  Party  Supply  Inc..  Randolph,  MA. 


1975 


Reunion 


September  28,  1985 


MARRIED:  John  Bunzick  and  Carol  Parker 
in  Belmont,  MA.  on  April  21.  1984.  Carol 
graduated  from  Oberlin  College  and  is 
employed  by  Survey  Tabulation  Services  of 
Cambridge,  MA.  John,  assistant  engineering 
manager  for  Wonder  Market  Companies  of 
Worcester,  is  also  studying  organizational  psy- 
chology at  Lesley  College.  ...  Dr.  Francis 
Kiernan  to  Carol  Ann  Montanye  in  West  Hart- 
ford, CT,  on  July  21 ,  1984.  She  graduated  from 
Hartford  Hospital  School  of  Nursing  and  is  an 
RN  with  the  Visiting  Nurses  of  Hartford.  He 
received  his  MD  from  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut School  of  Medicine  and  served  his 
internship  at  the  Hartford  Hospital,  where  he 
was  a  fellow  in  cardiology. 

Raymond  Acciardi  was  recently  appointed 
senior  quality  assurance  engineer  by  Construc- 
tion Materials  Consultants  Inc.,  Colorado 
Springs,  CO.  He  will  supervise  field  and  labo- 
ratory operations  and  coordinate  operations 
with  Lincoln-DeVore,  CMC's  sister  firm.  Pre- 
viously, he  was  with  the  Bureau  of  Reclama- 
tion, where  he  was  responsible  for  soil  testing 
section  research  programs  and  the  development 
of  state-of-the-  art  geotechnical  testing  equip- 
ment designs.  A  registered  professional  engi- 
neer, he  has  an  MBA  from  New  Hampshire 
College  in  Manchester,  NH. 

Michael  Ball,  supervisor  of  maintenance  of 
buildings  and  grounds  for  the  Rutland  (MA) 
School  Department,  also  makes  handmade 
wooden  rocking  horses  and  other  play  equip- 


Now  You  See  Him — 

Steve  Dacri  '74,  the  actor-magician 
known  professionally  as  the  "Fastest 
Hands  in  the  World,"  concluded  his  enter- 
tainment at  his  tenth  class  reunion  by 
proving  in  spectacular  style  that  he  may 
well  be  the  fastest  escape  artist  as  well. 

After  tying  up  his  escape-artist  wife, 
Marlene,  and  locking  her  in  a  trunk  on 
stage  at  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium, 
Steve  leaped  onto  the  trunk,  and  hid 
behind  a  cloth.  When  the  cloth  dropped  a 
split  second  later,  Marlene  was  on  top  of 
the  trunk  with  Steve  locked  and  tied 
inside! 

Another  crowd  pleaser  was  the  disap- 
pearing $50  bill  trick.  After  "borrowing" 
the  bill  from  reunion  chairman  Garry 
Balboni,  Steve  "accidentally"  burned  it  to 
a  crisp  with  a  cigarette  lighter.  Later,  the 
bill,  which  had  been  signed  by  Balboni, 
was  discovered  rolled  up  inside  a  class- 
mate's cigarette! 

During  Steve's  performance,  in  which 
the  phrase  "sleight-of-hand"  took  on  a 
whole  new  meaning,  streams  of  colored 

ment  for  children  at  his  company.  Wood  Prod- 
ucts, in  Holden.  Besides  the  rocking  horses,  he 
makes  rocking  seaplanes  and  roadsters  and  a 
limited  line  of  children's  furniture,  including 
toy  chests  and  toolboxes.  Currently,  he  sells  his 
wood  crafts  wholesale  to  retailers  in  all  six  New 
England  States,  as  well  as  to  several  stores  in 
the  Worcester  area. 

Mark  Drown  works  for  Mclntire  Co., 
Thomaston,  CT. 

Ed  Griffin  has  been  named  international 
applications  engineer  for  Megatek  Corporation, 
San  Diego,  CA.  He  is  responsible  for  Far  East 
sales  and  supports  the  international  sales  office 
in  Lausanne.  Switzerland.  In  September,  Ed, 


handkerchiefs  and  decks  of  cards  seemed 
to  take  on  lives  of  their  own— something 
of  which  the  Las  Vegas  dealers  had  best 
be  wary  when  Steve  is  in  town.  Steve 
often  performs  at  clubs  in  Las  Vegas  and 
Atlantic  City,  as  well  as  the  world-famous 
Magic  Castle  in  Hollywood. 

"I've  appeared  with  Bob  Hope,  Charo, 
Rodney  Dangerfield.  Phyllis  Diller  and 
Tony  Orlando,"  Steve  says.  His  TV 
credits  include  "Merv  Griffin,"  "Candid 
Camera,"  and  "That's  Incredible!" 

Recently,  he  completed  his  first  book 
for  the  general  public,  Fooling  People: 
Magic  Secrets  for  Everyone,  which  will  be 
published  soon.  "Early  in  the  year,  I'll  be 
in  video  stores  with  my  new  home  video 
instructional  series.  'Magic  Secrets',"  he 
reports.  "My  home  video  series  is  the  first 
that  reveals  and  teaches  'miracles'  which 
are  easy  to  do." 

A  Worcester  native,  Steve  had  not 
appeared  in  his  hometown  for  four  years 
prior  to  his  September  reunion  perfor- 
mance. Hearing  his  classmates'  applause 
and  receiving  the  keys  to  the  City  of  Wor- 
cester made  it  a  happy  homecoming. 

his  wife,  Alice,  and  their  daughter,  Sheena, 
went  to  Lausanne  for  two  months,  where  he 
supported  European  computer  graphics  trade 
shows,  including  shows  in  Copenhagen  and 
Berlin.  In  August,  he  completed  his  MBA 
degree  in  marketing  at  National  University  in 
San  Diego. 

Frank  Moitoza  is  program  manager  at  Naval 
Sea  Systems  Command,  Washington,  DC.  Last 
May,  he  received  his  MS  in  systems  manage- 
ment from  the  University  of  Southern  Califor- 
nia. The  Moitozas  and  their  two  children  reside 
in  Springfield,  VA. 

Vance  Rowe  was  recently  promoted  to  pro- 
duction manager  of  the  precipitated  calcium 


FEBRUARY  1985       47 


Hfelcome 


Homecoming  '84:  Gerald  Masi,  David  Scott,  Class  of  '74  members,  and  Dave 
Taracani. 


carbonate  department  at  Pfizer  Inc.,  Adams. 
MA.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1976  as  a  process 
engineer,  became  a  project  engineer  in  1977 
and  was  promoted  to  production  supervisor  in 
1978. 

Capt.  Douglas  Sargent.  USAF.  has  been 
chosen  as  base  company  grade  officer  of  the 
quarter  at  Thule  Air  Base  in  Greenland.  The 
chief  of  programs  and  engineering  with  the 
1012th  Air  Base  Group,  he  was  selected  in 
competition  among  contemporaries  for  profes- 
sional skill,  duty  performance  and  exemplary 
conduct. 

Frank  Vanzler  now  holds  the  post  of  project 


superintendent  for  Turner  Construction  Co.. 
Boston.  He  was  recently  transferred  from  Turn- 
er's Cleveland  operation. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Kenneth  Korcz  to  Patricia  Shane 
in  Syracuse,  NY.  Patricia  holds  an  associate's 
degree  from  Onondaga  Community  College,  a 
bachelor's  from  Syracuse  University  and  a  mas- 
ter's of  divinity  from  Trinity  Episcopal  School 
of  Ministry.  She  is  employed  by  R.E.  Dietz. 


Kenneth,  who  has  a  master's  from  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute,  works  for  Niagara 
Mohawk. 

Robert  Milk  is  a  senior  bank  systems  officer 
at  Bank  of  Virginia  in  Richmond. 

David  Reid  works  for  Arrington-Hobbs  & 
Assoc,  in  Kissimmee,  FL. 

For  the  third  time,  Steve  Silva  has  been 
selected  as  the  Masters  Award  recipient  by 
Tektronix  Inc.  The  annual  international  award 
recognizes  the  company's  top  managers  and 
salesmen.  A  Caribbean  cruise  is  included  as 
part  of  the  recognition.  Currently.  Steve  is  the 
Northeast  regional  manager  of  the  Tektronix 
Design  Automation  Group.  He  joined  the  firm, 
a  manufacturer  of  electronic  test  equipment,  in 
1976.  He  has  an  MBA  from  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity. 

David  Vogt  is  an  actuarial  for  American  Uni- 
versal, Providence,  RI. 

Paul  Wheeler  works  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Perini  Corp..  Washington,  DC. 

Jeffrey  Wilcox  serves  as  administrative  and 
controls  manager  for  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  Atlanta, 
GA. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Norman  Marshall  and  Wendy 
Walsh  in  Etna.  NH,  on  June  23.  1984.  Wendy 
graduated  from  Middlebury  College  and  has  a 
master's  degree  from  Dartmouth  College.  Nor- 
man, a  research  associate  for  the  New  Alchemy 
Institute  in  Falmouth,  MA,  also  holds  a  mas- 
ter's degree  from  Dartmouth . 

Enrico  Betti.  who  has  an  MSCE  from 
Carnegie-Mellon  University,  is  with  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston. 

Douglas  Elliot  works  as  general  foreman  at 
General  Dynamics,  Groton,  CT. 

Thomas  Kintz,  who  has  an  MBA  from  RPI. 
has  been  promoted  to  engineer  at  the  Northeast 
Utilities  Montville  Station  in  Connecticut.  He 
started  as  associate  engineer  at  Montville  in 
1979. 

Elizabeth  Ernst-Mullin  is  employed  as  a 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


process  development  engineer  at  Norplex  in  La 
Crosse.  WI. 

Albert  Riggieri  has  been  elected  associate 
actuary  of  the  Paul  Revere  Companies.  Most 
recently,  he  served  as  assistant  actuary  in  the 
product  actuarial  area.  He  is  a  fellow  in  the 
Society  of  Actuaries. 

Edward  Smith  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Marion  Laboratories  in  Kansas  City,  MO. 

Kurt  Sonstroem  works  for  Burton  & 
VanHouten  Engineering  Inc.,  West  Hartford, 
CT. 

John  Swalec,  Jr.  works  as  a  research  engi- 
neer for  Union  Oil  Co.  in  Brea,  CA.  He  has  an 
MS  in  chemical  engineering  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Washington. 


1978 


MARRIED:  Bruce  Bertrand  to  Joan  Metivier 
in  Worcester  on  June  24,  1984.  Joan,  personnel 
and  operations  manager  at  Home's  department 
store  in  Pittsburgh.  PA,  received  a  master's  in 
business  degree  from  Anna  Maria  College. 
Bruce  is  attending  the  University  of  Pittsburgh 
School  of  Medicine.  .  .  .  Albert  Schutz  and 
Joan  Kasputis  in  Shrewsbury,  MA,  on  June  17, 
1984.  Joan  graduated  from  Millbury  Memorial 
High  School  and  is  employed  by  New  England 
Power  Service  Co.,  Westboro.  Schutz  works 
for  Du  Pont's  N.E.N.  Products  Division,  Bil- 
lerica.  .  .  .  Robert  Zawistowski  to  Diane 
Wight  at  Old  Sturbridge  Village,  MA,  on  May 
1 1 ,  1984.  She  attended  Worcester  State  College 
and  plans  to  enter  the  University  of  Southern 
Maine  in  Portland.  He  is  a  utilities  technical 
and  training  director  at  S.D.  Warren  Co.,  West-' 
book,  ME. 

Thomas  Edwards  holds  the  post  of  technical 
director  at  PAR  Technology  Corp.,  Huber 
Heights.  OH. 

Michael  Gantick  now  holds  the  post  of 
director  of  public  works  and  town  engineer  in 
Monroe,  CT. 

Keith  Laird  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Johnson  Controls  Inc.,  North  Perry,  OH. 

Marc  McCalmont  serves  as  technical  coor- 
dinator at  Technical  Communications  Corp., 
Concord,  MA. 

Paul  Peterson  is  now  assistant  to  the  plant 
manager  at  the  American  Hoechst  Corpora- 
tion's high-density  polyethylene  plant  in  Bay- 
port,  TX.  Previously,  he  was  in  the  company's 
sales  and  marketing  office  in  Leominster.  MA, 
where  he  conducted  market  research  surveys. 

John  Wallace,  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  AT&T  Bell  Labs  in  Naperville.  IL,  was 
the  co-author  of  "Designing  for  Ultrahigh 
Availability:  The  Unix  RTR  Operating  Sys- 
tem," which  appeared  in  the  August  issue  of 
Computer.  He  has  worked  in  the  Operating 
Systems  Laboratory  on  the  Unix  RTR  kernel 
since  1980  and  is  currently  designing  the  kernel 
for  a  distributed  multiprocessor  system. 


1979 


MARRIED:  John  Arnold  and  Gail  Wojnar  in 
Westboro,  MA,  on  June  23,  1984.  A  graduate 
of  Holyoke  Community  College  and  Westfield 
State  College,  Gail  is  a  systems  consultant  with 
Digital  Equipment  Corporation  in  Stow,  MA. 
John  serves  as  a  software  engineer  with  DEC  in 


Vice  President  Judy  Nitsch 

Judy  Nitsch  Takes 
Top-Notch  ASCE 
Young  Engineer  Award 

Judy  Nitsch  '75,  vice  president  and  chief 
civil  engineer  with  Allen  &  Demurjian 
Inc.,  Boston,  was  awarded  the  Edmund 
Friedman  Young  Engineer  Award  for  Pro- 
fessional Achievement  by  the  American 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers  at  ASCE's 
annual  convention  in  San  Francisco  in 
October. 

The  award  is  given  annually  to  ASCE 
members  who  are  32  years  of  age  or  less, 
who  are  judged  to  have  shown  service  to 
the  advancement  of  the  profession,  who 
have  demonstrated  technical  competence, 
character,  integrity  and  leadership,  and 
who  have  contributed  to  public  service. 
This  year  two  members  received  the 
award. 

In  1982,  Judy  was  honored  by  the  Bos- 
ton Section  of  the  Society  of  Women  Engi- 
neers (SWE)  as  the  recipient  of  the 
National   Distinguished   New   Engineer 

Hudson.  .  .  .  Louis  Feula,  Jr.  and  Georgia 
Panteleakis  on  August  26.  1984,  in  Cranston. 
RI.  An  assistant  manager  at  Florsheim  Thayer 
McNeil.  Warwick  Mall,  Georgia  graduated 
from  Community  College  of  Rhode  Island. 
Louis  works  for  Monsanto  Co.,  Everett,  MA, 
and  is  also  enrolled  in  the  MBA  program  at  the 
University  of  Hartford.  .  .  .  Seth  Martin  and 
Deborah  Slowe  on  September  29,  1984,  in 
Harwich,  MA.  Deborah  graduated  from  South- 
eastern Massachusetts  University  and  works  at 
The  Gap.   Seth   is   with  Jim   Dooley   Realty, 


Award.  She  is  president  of  the  SWE  Bos- 
ton Section  and  vice  president  of  the  Bos- 
ton Section  of  ASCE.  A  director  of  the 
Charles  River  Watershed  Association,  she 
also  belongs  to  the  National  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers  and  to  the  Massa- 
chusetts Association  of  Land  Surveyors 
and  Civil  Engineers. 

At  Allen  &  Demurjian,  a  consulting 
civil  and  structural  engineering,  architec- 
tural and  surveying  firm,  Judy  specializes 
in  site  planning  and  development.  She  has 
had  assignments  throughout  the  U.S.  for 
companies  like  Showcase  Cinema, 
McDonald's  Corporation  and  General  Cin- 
ema Corp.  A  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  twelve  states,  she  was  recently 
offered  a  partnership  in  Allen  &  Demur- 
jian. 

In  1980.  Judy  was  featured  on  the  "New 
England  Today"  TV  program  and  on  NBC 
radio's  "The  Woman's  Program."  A  coau- 
thor of  Tern's  Trip,  a  coloring  book  intro- 
ducing engineering  careers  to  grade-school 
girls.  Judy  is  also  vice  chairman  of  the 
WPI  Alumni  Publications  Advisory  Com- 
mittee. 

South  Yarmouth.  MA.  .  .  .  Fred  Siino  and 
Barbara  Goody  in  July.  Barbara  is  a  graduate  of 
Becker  Junior  College.  Fred  received  his 
MSCE  from  Northeastern  last  fall. 

BORN:  to  Debra  and  Jeffrey  Bouyea  a  son, 
Jeffrey  Michael,  on  December  1,  1983.  Jeff  is 
controller  at  P.  Francini  &  Co..  Derby.  CT 
Last  year,  he  received  his  MBA  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Houston.  ...  to  Anna  Jean  and  Ken- 
neth Oriole  a  daughter,  Jessica  Anne,  on 
August  8.  1984. 

Joanne  Beckett,  who  is  currently  a  research 


FEBRUARY  1985       49 


Homecoming  '84:  Susan  and  Tom  Rockwood  '79  at  the  Alumni  Fund  celebration. 


engineer  for  Union  Carbide,  holds  two  degrees 
from  WPI. 

Chris  Corpuz  is  a  consultant  for  Deloitte 
Haskins  &  Sells  in  Costa  Mesa,  CA.  He  holds  a 
master's  degree  from  Harvard. 

Since  1982,  John  Gordeuk  has  been  a  sys- 
tems engineer  for  the  Space  Shuttle  mission 
simulator  at  Singer  Co. /Link  Division.  He 
studied  for  his  master's  degree  at  Rice  Univer- 
sity in  the  space  physics  and  astronomy  depart- 
ment. 

Peter  Gould  works  for  Raytheon  in  Sudbury, 
MA. 

Robert  Hart  serves  as  Southern  California 
regional  sales  representative  for  Artel  Commu- 
nications Corporation. 

Currently,  Bruce  Jenket  is  a  quality  assur- 
ance engineer  at  Varian  Assoc. ,  Palo  Alto,  Ca. 

Paul  Keary  recently  received  his  MSME 
from  Oregon  State  University  in  Corvallis.  He 
is  a  composite  structural  engineer  at  Boeing 
Aircraft,  Seattle,  WA. 

Norman  Lacourse  has  been  promoted  to 
project  supervisor  of  natural  polymer  research 
at  National  Starch  and  Chemical  Corporation. 
Bridgewater,  NJ.  In  1979,  he  joined  the  firm  as 
a  chemist. 

Henry  Lapa  is  with  the  U.S.  Navy  Patrol 
Squadron  Sixteen  in  Jacksonville,  FL. 

Stephen  Lesniewski  writes  that  he  has  a  year 
of  veterinary  studies  remaining  with  the  veteri- 
nary faculty  of  Warsaw  (Poland)  Agricultural 
University. 

Sheng-Lung  Lien  is  now  a  technical  pro- 
grammer/analyst at  Nalco  Chemical  Co., 
Naperville,  IL. 

Christopher  Mather  has  been  promoted  to 
district  manager  of  instrumentation  at  Hewlett- 
Packard  in  Syracuse,  NY.  He  is  responsible  for 
the  management  of  sales  in  the  Syracuse- 
Albany  area.  In  1979,  he  joined  the  firm  as  a 
field  engineer.  In  1983,  he  received  the  Upstate 
District  Award  and  the  Region  Manager's 
Award  for  outstanding  performance  in  sales. 

Gary  Pearson  holds  the  post  of  Eastern 
regional  distribution  manager  for  Priam  Corp., 
Needham,  MA. 

William  Razeto  works  as  a  stress  engineer  at 
Boeing  Aircraft  in  Seattle,  WA. 


Jim  Rudolph  is  with  High  Voltage  Engineer- 
ing. Burlington,  MA. 

Robert  Schifiliti  of  Westfield,  MA,  a  fire 
protection  engineer  and  systems  consultant  with 
Mass.  Fire  Alarms  Co.,  has  been  chosen  an 
Outstanding  Young  Man  of  America.  He  man- 
ages sales  and  engineering  for  the  Lowell  firm 
in  western  Massachusetts  and  Vermont.  Cur- 
rently, he  is  studying  for  his  master's  in  fire 
protection  engineering  at  WPI.  He  belongs  to 
the  Society  of  Fire  Protection  Engineers  and  is 
chairman  of  a  task  force  trying  to  establish  a 
nationwide  computer  system  for  rapid  transfer 
of  fire  protection  information. 

Felix  Vargas  is  a  design  engineer  for  Prime 
Computer  in  Framingham,  MA. 


1980 


Reunion 


September  28, 1985 


MARRIED:  Mihran  Aroian  and  Karen 
Frankian  in  Worcester  on  May  6,  1984.  She 
attended  Ripon  and  York  St.  John  College, 
York.  England  and  graduated  from  Connecticut 
College,  New  London.  She  is  a  copywriter  for 
William  Newhouse  Advertising  Agency,  Hous- 
ton, TX.  He  is  a  technical  sales  rep- 
resentative for  Bethesda  Research  Laboratories. 
.  .  .  Michael  Coomey  and  Susan  Higgins  in 
Worcester  on  June  9.  1984.  Susan,  a  sales  pro- 
motion specialist  at  Data  General,  Westboro, 
graduated  from  Clark  and  is  a  graduate  student 
at  Anna  Maria  College,  Paxton.  Michael  is  a 
senior  test  engineer  at  DEC,  Shrewsbury,  and  a 
graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Thomas  Egan 
and  Mary  Krull  in  Marblehead,  MA.  Mary 
graduated  from  MIT  and  is  working  on  a  mas- 
ter's in  material  science  at  Stanford.  Tom  is  a 
controls  engineer  at  Axel  Johnson  Engineering 
Corp.  in  San  Francisco.  .  .  .  Wayne  Isaac  and 
Nancy  Catsam  in  Holliston,  MA,  on  July  22, 
1984.  Nancy,  a  technical  editor  for  Wang  Labo- 
ratories of  Lowell,  graduated  from  Lake  Erie 
College,  Painesville,  OH.  Wayne  works  for  the 
Mitre  Corporation,  Bedford. 
MARRIED:  Kevin  Kelley  and  Cheryl  Ann 


Campbell  in  Altomonte  Springs,  FL.  Employed 
as  a  paralegal  in  Dallas,  TX,  she  received  her 
BA  from  the  University  of  Central  Florida.  He 
is  with  InteCom  Inc.  of  Dallas.  .  .  .  Angelo 
Scangas  and  Stephanie  Poulopoulos  recently  in 
Lynn,  MA.  Stephanie  graduated  from  Boston 
College  and  works  for  Jenis  Insurance  Agency 
in  Lynn.  Scangas  is  with  Emhart  Corporation 
of  Middleton.  .  .  .  James  Torrey,  Jr.  to  Leslie 
Melkonian  on  September  15,  1984,  in  New 
Britain.  CT.  Leslie  graduated  from  Boston  Col- 
lege. .  .  .  David  Weiss  to  Rhonda  Friedman  in 
Providence.  RI,  on  August  12,  1984.  Rhonda 
graduated  from  URI  and  has  a  master's  degree 
in  social  work  from  Adelphi  University.  She  is 
employed  by  the  New  Bedford  Area  Center  for 
Human  Services.  David  holds  a  master's  degree 
from  Carnegie-Mellon  and  is  with  Teradyne  in 
Boston. 

Herb  Dunnington  holds  the  post  of  elec- 
tronic engineer  at  Norton/Christensen  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  UT. 

John  Gusha,  DMD,  who  graduated  from 
Boston  University  Dental  School  last  year,  has 
opened  a  dental  office  in  the  Medical  Arts 
Building  in  Holden,  MA. 

Capt.  Stephen  Lawry,  USAF,  is  assistant 
professor  of  aerospace  studies  at  St.  Joseph's 
University,  Philadelphia. 

William  Mangano,  Jr.  has  been  promoted  to 
senior  systems  analyst  within  the  systems 
organization  at  State  Mutual  in  Worcester.  He 
started  with  the  company  in  1982  as  a  program- 
mer analyst  and  was  promoted  to  systems  ana- 
lyst the  following  year. 

Joseph  Mayall  serves  as  resident  engineer  at 
Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Boston,  MA. 

John  Pardo  works  for  Kodak  in  Rochester, 
NY.  In  December,  he  received  his  MS  from 
Penn  State  University. 

Doreen  Sa  Vieira,  an  applications  engineer 
in  the  microlithography  division  at  Perkin 
Elmer.  Wilton,  CT,  has  been  doing  a  lot  of 
business  traveling  to  the  West  Coast,  the  South- 
west and  Switzerland. 

Gary  Sawicki  is  a  manufacturing  project 
engineer  at  Medi-Tech  in  Watertown,  MA. 

Scott  Sawicki  serves  as  a  senior  test  engineer 
at  National  Semiconductor,  Santa  Clara,  CA. 

Peter  Sherer  is  a  machine  design  engineer  at 
Kodak,  Rochester,  NY. 

David  Wilson  is  a  software  engineer  for 
Terak  Corporation  in  Scottsdale,  AZ. 


1981 


MARRIED:  James  Blickle  and  Diane  Mowe 
in  Hanover,  NH,  on  September  8,  1984.  Diane 
graduated  from  Becker  and  is  employed  by 
Allan  Hirsch,  DMD.  Jim  is  attending  Amos 
Tuck  Business  School  at  Dartmouth.  .  .  . 
Stephen  Leslie  and  Mary  Jane  Montville, 
'83,  on  June  3,  1984.  in  Worcester,  MA.  She  is 
a  process  engineer  at  National  Semiconductor, 
Danbury,  CT,  and  he  serves  as  a  senior  com- 
puter analyst  at  Travelers  Insurance  Co.,  Hart- 
ford. .  .  .  Scott  Nisula  and  Debra  Grant  in 
Sharon.  MA.  Debra  has  a  BS  degree  in  human 
services  from  Fitchburg  State  College  and  is  a 
child  counsellor  in  San  Leandro,  CA.  Scott  is  a 
chemical  engineer  with  Chevron  Oil  Company 
of  Richmond,  CA.  .  .  .  Marylou  Place  and 
John  Domino  on  August  31,  1984,  in  New 
Bedford,  MA.  Marylou  is  administrative  assis- 


50       WPI  JOURNAL 


Joanne  Beckett  and  Jack  Tracy  in  Nepal. 

Journey  to  the  Ends  Of 
the  Earth 

As  children,  many  of  us  dreamed  of  taking 
wondrous  journeys  to  faraway  kingdoms 
nestled  in  storied  mountain  ranges. 
Recently,  Jack  Tracy  '79  CE  and  his  wife, 
Joanne  Beckett  '79  CH,  made  their  child- 
hood dreams  come  true.  For  two  months, 
they  trekked  in  the  mountainous  Asian 
kingdom  of  Nepal. 

"Nepal,  home  to  Mt.  Everest,  is  the  last 
frontier,"  Jack  says.  "On  our  trip  there, 
we  were  accompanied  by  our  friends  Joe 
Gill  and  Jon  Martinson  of  the  Appalachian 
Mountain  Club.  We  had  perfect,  post- 
monsoon,  fair  weather!" 

Nepal  is  wrapped  along  the  tectonic 
spine  of  the  Himalayas,  between  India  and 
Tibet.  The  capital,  Kathamandu,  is  a  sym- 
bol of  the  East  with  its  busy  open-air  mar- 
kets and  Buddhist  and  Hindu  temples. 
Nepal  is  a  small  kingdom,  measuring 
roughly  500  by  150  miles.  "However," 
says  Joanne,  "that  description  loses  sig- 
nificance while  negotiating  its  massive 
maze  of  ridges  and  18,000-ft.  passes." 

tant  to  the  vice  president  of  engineering  at  ADE 
Corp.,  Newton.  John,  who  holds  a  BS  and  an 
MSCE  from  RPI,  is  currently  a  student  at  Har- 
vard Graduate  School  of  Business  Administra- 
tion. 

Richard  Buckley  is  with  Harris  Co./RF 
Communications  Div.,  Rochester,  NY. 

Jim  Eilenberger  continues  as  a  project  engi- 
neer at  United  Illuminating  in  New  Haven,  CT. 
Last  summer,  he  played  goalie  on  Willy  J's  soc- 
cer team  out  of  Old  Say  brook,  CT.  After  the 
team  won  the  state  championship,  it  made  a 
ten-day  soccer  tour  of  Ireland. 

Mary-Jane  Hall,  a  registered  professional 


The  adventurers  found  a  rugged  land- 
scape and  a  people  whose  smiles  brushed 
aside  the  Third  World  realities  of  poverty. 
According  to  Jack,  the  Nepalis  and  trans- 
planted Tibetans  welcome  strangers  with 
the  traditional,  melodic  "Namaste!" 

Even  by  Nepali  standards,  the  hikers 
were  traveling  in  a  remote  region,  amid 
the  snow-capped  Dhaulagiri  and  Anna- 
puma  Range,  often  called  by  veterans  the 
greatest  trekking  area  in  the  world.  The 
group  traveled  more  than  300  miles 
through  mountainous  Buddhist  settle- 
ments, sharing  homes  and  meals  with  the 
villagers.  Meals  consisted  of  rice,  lentils 
and  tea  cooked  in  typical,  one-room  shel- 
ters. 

"Life  revolved  around  a  central,  primi- 
tive, smoky,  clay  stove,"  Joanne  reports. 
"Conversations  were  clumsy  streams  of 
broken  English  and  Nepali  accompanied 
by  mutual  laughter  as  the  Nepalis 
observed  our  strange  Western  manner  and 
clothes." 

Jack  and  Joanne  found  Nepal  to  be  an 
amazing  adventure.  "The  memory  of  the 
friendly  faces  of  the  Nepalis  and  the 
mountain  peaks  shrouded  in  alpenglow," 
Jack  says,  "will  stay  with  us  always." 

civil  engineer  in  the  state  of  California,  is  now  a 
senior  design  engineer  at  Nasland  Engineering 
in  San  Diego. 

Maureen  Higgins  is  currently  a  finance 
major  and  an  MBA  student  at  New  York  Uni- 
versity Graduate  School  of  Business  Adminis- 
tration. 

Mark  Malenbaum  is  a  space  center  planning 
engineer  for  the  USAF  in  El  Segundo,  CA. 

Lt.  Michael  McDermott  is  stationed  at 
Minot  AFB,  ND. 

Brian  Minns,  who  works  for  3C  Electric,  a 
testing  and  consulting  firm  in  Ashland,  MA, 
has  been  named  as  town  underground  foreman 


by  the  Electric  Division,  Wellesley,  MA. 

Tom  Palmer  serves  as  a  senior  manufactur- 
ing engineer  for  Harvey  Hubbell  Inc.,  Bridge- 
port, CT. 

Ruth  Adams-Teixeira  is  with  the  Massachu- 
setts Department  of  Public  Works. 

Thomas  Warnick  works  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Honeywell  in  Lexington,  MA. 

Dennis  Wysocki  is  a  supervisor  for  Clairol  in 
Stamford,  CT. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Stephen  Balcewicz  and  Donna 
Bourn  on  June  10,  1984,  in  Worcester.  Donna, 
a  graduate  of  Quinsigamond  Community  Col- 
lege, is  a  computer  operator  at  Worcester 
Memorial  Hospital.  Stephen  is  with  Guerriere 
&  Halnon  Inc.,  Franklin,  MA.  .  .  .  Paul  Doe  to 
Susan  Moll  on  June  23,  1984,  in  Bedford,  MA. 
Susan,  a  clinical  dietitian  at  the  Catholic  Medi- 
cal Center,  Manchester,  NH,  graduated  from 
Framingham  State  College.  Paul  is  assistant 
plant  manager  at  Gemini  Valve  Co. ,  Raymond, 
NH.  .  .  .  John  Erb  and  Lynn  Beauregard  on 
July  28,  1984,  in  Gardner,  MA.  Lynn  is  with 
Western  Electric  in  Burlington  and  John  with 
GE  in  Lynn.  .  .  .  Stephen  Kaneb  to  Andrea 
Fielding,  '84,  in  Taunton,  MA,  on  June  2, 
1984.  Andrea  works  for  Hughes  Aircraft,  Ful- 
lerton,  CA.  Stephen  is  with  Pacific  Lighting 
Energy  Systems  in  Commerce,  CA.  .  .  . 
George  Oliver  and  Karen  Zalewski  on  May  5, 
1984,  in  Webster,  MA.  Karen  is  a  software 
engineer  for  DEC  and  attends  Northeastern 
University.  George,  a  mechanical  engineer  for 
GE,  is  also  attending  Northeastern. 

MARRIED:  Barry  Paquin  to  Deborah 
DuVerger  in  North  Grafton,  MA,  on  July  7, 
1984.  She  graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College 
and  is  a  laboratory  technician  at  the  Fallon 
Clinic.  He  is  an  electronics  technician  at  DEC 
in  Marlboro.  .  .  .  Timothy  Smith  and  Ellen 
McPherson  in  Beverly,  MA.  Ellen  graduated 
from  Becker  and  from  Centenary  College  in 
New  Jersey.  She  is  employed  by  Lee  Jay  Bed 
and  Bath  in  Salem.  Tim  works  for  Varian  Asso- 
ciates in  Beverly,  MA.  .  .  .  Terry  Soule  and 
William  Witowsky  on  September  29,  1984,  in 
Middletown,  MD.  William  graduated  from 
Stevens  Institute  of  Technology,  Hoboken.  NJ. 
Both  are  employed  by  M/A-Com  DCC  Inc., 
Germantown,  MD. 

MARRIED:  Philip  Viall  and  Claudette- 
Anne  Roy  Morrissey  on  September  14,  1984, 
in  East  Freetown,  MA.  An  RN  with  the  Society 
for  Human  Advancement  Through  Rehabilita- 
tion Engineering  Foundation  Inc.  (SHARE), 
she  works  with  vocally  impaired  individuals. 
She  holds  degrees  from  Bristol  Community 
College,  the  New  England  Institute  of  Applied 
Arts  and  Sciences  and  Southeastern  Massachu- 
setts University  (SMU).  He  graduated  from 
SMU  with  his  BSEE  and  MSEE  and  serves  as 
vice  president  and  treasurer  of  SHARE,  North 
Dartmouth,  MA,  which  he  helped  found.  .  .  . 
Joseph  Vignaly,  Jr.  and  Katherine  Kruczek, 
'84,  in  West  Springfield,  MA,  on  September  8, 
1984.  Kathy  is  employed  in  management  at 
New  England  Telephone  &  Telegraph, 
Framingham,  and  Joe,  who  is  attending  the 
master's  program  at  Babson,  works  for  GTE 
Systems  Corp.,  Westboro,  MA.  .  .  .  Dana 
Whitney  and  Lisa  Miller  on  August  1 1,  1984, 


FEBRUARY  1985       51 


in  Cotuit,  MA.  She  graduated  from  Worcester 
State  College-University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  Center  and  is  a  nuclear  medicine  tech- 
nologist at  Cardinal  Cushing  Hospital.  Brock- 
ton, MA.  Dana  holds  the  post  of  construction 
project  manager  for  W-W  Construction. 
Hopkinton. 

Thomas  Barrett  serves  as  a  process  analyst 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft.  East  Hartford,  CT. 

John  Bella nt on i.  who  has  been  a  design 
engineer  for  Alpha  Industries,  Lawrence,  MA, 
is  now  working  for  his  master's  degree  at  Cor- 
nell. 

Michael  Bickford  is  a  system  sales  engineer 
at  Westinghouse,  I/C  Projects  Division,  Pitts- 
burgh. 

Mark  Brown  works  for  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric Corp.,  Baltimore,  MD. 

James  Diemer  serves  as  analyst  for  Science 
Applications  Inc.,  Falls  Church,  VA. 

Cindy  Gagnon  finished  first  in  the  women's 
division  of  the  Monmouth  County  Parks  Sprint 
Triathlon  (440-yd.  ocean  swim,  14-mile  bike 
ride,  four-mile  run)  in  Long  Branch,  NJ.  Until 
a  year  ago,  she  had  never  run.  swum  or  bicy- 
cled seriously.  Currently  a  member  of  Techni- 
cal Staff  Digital  Support  Systems  at  Bell  Com- 
munications Research,  Freehold,  NJ,  Cindy 
has  an  MS  in  computer  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Southern  California. 

Stephen  Hennigar  holds  the  post  of  assistant 
superintendent  at  Turner  Construction  Co., 
Boston. 

Steven  McNary  is  about  85  percent  of  the 
way  through  the  renovation  of  his  1926  Chevro- 
let Superior  Model  V  grocery  delivery  wagon,  a 
dream  he's  had  since  he  was  16.  The  truck  has 
all  of  its  original  gauges,  but  he  had  to  build  the 
wooden  body.  Since  starting  the  renovation 
eight  years  ago,  he's  learned  woodworking, 
engine  rebuilding  and  welding.  '"I  learned  as  I 
did  it.  It  was  great,"  he  says.  Steve  works  for 
GTE  in  Needham,  MA. 

John  Nixon  is  a  design  engineer  at  General 
Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  Groton,  CT. 

David  Rielly  serves  as  an  automation  sys- 
tems specialist  with  MCC  Powers,  Waltham, 
MA. 

Patrick  Sheridan  holds  the  post  of  program 
manager  for  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Hanscom 
AFB.  MA. 

Tim  Stanley  works  for  Digital  in  Maynard, 
MA. 

Miguel  Vassallo  is  employed  as  general 
manager  at  Vassallo  Inc. ,  Lake  Wales,  FL. 


1983 


MARRIED:  Michael  Brousseau  and  Sherri 
Ann  Pitt  in  Connecticut  on  July  7.  1984.  She 
graduated  from  Becker  Junior  College  with  an 
associate  degree  in  accounting.  He  is  employed 
by  Digital  Equipment  Corporation.  .  .  .  How- 
ard Davidson  to  Lisa  Moreau,  '84,  in  Sharon, 
MA,  on  August  18,  1984.  Lisa  works  for 
American  Management  Systems.  Arlington. 
VA.  and  Howard  is  with  ITT-Dialcom,  Silver 
Spring,  MD.  .  .  .  James  Dolan  and  Monique 
Gelineau  in  Mattapoisett.  MA.  on  September 
29.  1984.  Monique.  a  health  fitness  specialist 
for  the  Hartford  Insurance  Group,  graduated 
from  UMass.  Amherst.  Jim  works  for  Hamilton 
Standard.  .  .  .  Chris  Erikson  and  Karen 
Eklof,  '84.  in  East  Greenwich.  RI,  on  Septem- 


Homecoming  '84:  Kathleen  Devlin,  sister  of  Patrick  Devlin  '86,  of  Norton,  MA,  gets 
fitted  for  Pat 's  football  helmet  with  a  hand  from  Mom,  Mrs.  Audrey  Devlin. 


ber  1,  1984.  Karen  is  a  project  engineer  at  Proc- 
ter &  Gamble.  Quincy.  MA.  Chris  is  a  graduate 
student  at  MIT.  .  .  .  Matthew  Falco  and  Orena 
Deveau  in  East  Haven,  CT,  on  September  29, 
1984.  Orena  works  for  Coan  &  Bunnell  Inc. 
Matthew  is  employed  by  MacDermid  Inc.  .  .  . 
Christine  O'Connor  and  Michael  Cataldo  on 
October  7,  1984.  in  Worcester.  She  is  employed 
by  Computervision  Corp.,  Bedford.  Michael, 
who  is  with  TDX  Systems,  Cambridge,  gradu- 
ated from  Columbia  University. 

MARRIED:  Robert  Plante  to  Denise  Chris- 
topher in  Norwalk,  CT.  on  September  7,  1984. 
She  has  a  master's  degree  from  UConn  and  has 
served  as  assistant  director  of  school  relations  at 
California  State  University,  Long  Beach.  He  is 
a  systems  analyst  for  Parsons  Co.  in  Yanbu, 
Saudi  Arabia.  .  .  .  Mark  Robichaud  and  Robin 
Richard  in  Fitchburg,  MA.  Robin,  a  medical 
technologist  at  Burbank  Hospital,  Fitchburg, 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College.  Mark 
serves  as  a  management  engineer  at  Interna- 
tional Medical  Industries,  Watertown.  .  .  . 
Derek  Speed  and  Jennifer  Reardon  in  Dudley, 
MA,  on  June  9,  1984.  Jennifer  is  a  senior  at 
Nichols  College.  Derek  is  a  technical  support 
specialist  at  DEC  in  Marlboro.  .  .  .  Walter 
Towner,  Jr.  to  Carolyn  Kachanis  on  Septem- 
ber 1,  1984,  in  Providence,  RI.  Carolyn  is 
operations  manager  of  Compufab  in  Avon, 
MA,  and  he  is  operations  manager  of  Thorsen 
Steel  Products,  also  in  Avon.  .  .  .  James  Welch 
and  Michelle  Girouard  in  Spencer,  MA,  on 
September  15,  1984.  She  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  College  and  is  employed  at  the  Worces- 
ter County  Convention  and  Visitors  Bureau.  He 
was  recently  named  a  senior  systems  engineer 
at  Intellution  Inc.,  in  Westwood,  MA.  His 
responsibilities  include  project  support  and 
related  activities. 

Patricia  Allard  is  an  Edison  Program  engi- 
neer at  GE  Medical  Systems,  Milwaukee.  WI. 

Kimberly  Berg  was  recently  promoted  to 
production  engineer  at  Rockwell  International 
Corp.  in  Duluth,  GA. 

Richard  Cass  works  as  an  applications  engi- 
neer at  P/A  Industries,  Bloomfield,  CT. 

Martin  Morra  serves  as  a  research  assistant 
at  MIT. 

Joe  Phelan.  who  has  been  with  GE  since 
graduation,  has  been  transferred  from  the  Pitts- 


field  (MA)  plant  to  the  GE  plant  in  Cincinnati, 
OH.  Currently,  he  is  in  the  management  train- 
ing program  in  the  robotic  engineering  quality 
and  production  division. 

Nicholas  Pirog  II  works  as  a  sales  promotion 
coordinator  at  Analogic  Corp.,  Danvers,  MA. 

David  Sauerbrey  has  been  transferred  to  San 
Antonio.  TX,  to  assume  the  post  of  senior  man- 
ufacturing engineer  for  the  Isotronics  Division 
of  Augat  Corporation.  Previously,  he  was  a 
production  engineer  for  Augat  in  New  Bedford. 
MA. 

Mark  Scott  is  now  attending  the  University 
of  Maryland  as  a  full-time  graduate  student 
studying  aerospace  engineering  in  pursuit  of  his 
master's  degree.  Previously,  he  had  worked  for 
a  year  at  Sikorsky  Aircraft. 

Paul  Skerker  is  a  graduate  student  in  the 
School  of  Chemical  Engineering  at  Cornell 
University. 


1984 


MARRIED:    William    Andrews,    Jr.    and 

Cheryl  Spargo  on  August  4,  1984.  in  Amherst, 
NH.  She  attended  Clark  University,  Worcester, 
MA,  and  Cambridge  University  in  England, 
and  she  graduated  from  UNH  with  a  BS  in 
music  education.  He  works  for  NBI  in  Boulder. 
CO.  .  .  .  Frederick  Groll  to  Claire  Connor  in 
Northboro.  MA.  on  June  16.  1984.  An  occupa- 
tional therapist,  she  graduated  from  Boston 
University  and  Sargent  College  of  Allied 
Health  Professions.  Boston.  Groll.  who  has  his 
MSEE  from  WPI  and  graduated  from  Boston 
University  College  of  Engineering,  is 
employed  at  DEC.  .  .  .  Thomas  Levergood 
to  Fran  Jurgrau  on  June  23,  1984,  in  Framing- 
ham.  MA.  Fran  graduated  with  a  degree  in  psy- 
chology and  elementary  education  from  South- 
eastern Massachusetts  University.  Tom  works 
for  DEC  in  Maynard.  .  .  .  Philip  Litchfield  to 
Trayce  Taras  in  Worcester  on  June  23,  1984. 
She  graduated  from  Fitchburg  Staie  and  is  a 
kindergarten  teacher  in  Derry,  NH.  He  works 
for  RCA,  Burlington,  MA. 

MARRIED:  Michael  Mclnnis  and  Donna 
McRae  in  Worcester  on  June  16,  1984.  Donna 
is  employed  by  RCA  and  Michael  by  Sanders 


52       WPI  JOURNAL 


Can't  Get  Around  to  It? 
Call  Bruce  Jacobson 

How  many  times  have  you  said,  "I'll  do  it 
when  I  get  around  to  it,"  and  "it"  never 
gets  done?  Well,  Bruce  Jacobson  '80  ME 
has  designed  just  the  thing  for  procrastina- 
tors,  "a  round  tuit"  that  you  can  carry 
right  in  your  pocket. 

Bruce,  who  is  general  manager  of  Pho- 
topanels  of  New  England  Inc.,  Princeton, 
MA,  and  who  has  an  interesting  sense  of 
humor,  designed  the  metal  disk  as  a  trade 
show  giveaway  to  illustrate  his  company's 
unique  photo  process. 

Last  year,  Bruce  came  up  with  another 
popular  giveaway  with  roots  right  on  the 
WPI  campus— a  round  ruler.  "Prof.  Hal 
Corey,  in  questioning  the  length  of  a  line 
on  a  mechanical  drawing,  would  place  a 
finger  at  each  end  of  the  line  and  say  the 
line  was  'yea  long',  hence,  'yea  long'  was 
always  the  right  length,"  he  says.  Bruce 's 
round  ruler,  or  "Yea  Gage,"  is  as  long  as  it 
needs  to  be,  with  every  revolution  repre- 
senting 10  inches. 

According  to  Bruce,  Photopanels, 
which  was  founded  by  his  father,  Burton, 
in  1963,  was  the  second  authorized  proc- 
essor in  the  country  using  the  process 
whereby  a  photographic  image  is  embed- 
ded and  sealed  within  the  surface  of  anod- 
ized  aluminum.  The  panels  withstand 
extreme  wear  and  high  temperatures,  will 
not  peel,  are  impervious  to  salt  spray  and 
are  unaffected  by  organic  solvents,  oil  or 
grease.  The  process  is  used,  among  other 
things,  for  custom  machine  control  pan- 
els, instruction  panels,  data  plates,  dial 


Associates.  They  reside  in  Nashua.  NH.  .  .  . 
Kenneth  Nylen  and  Janet  Driscoll  in  Duxbury. 
MA.  on  September  15.  1984.  Janet,  an  RN  at 
UMass  Medical  Center.  Worcester,  graduated 
from  St.  Vincent  Hospital.  Ken  has  been  work- 
ing on  the  energy  management  project  at  DEC. 
Northboro.  .  .  .  Timothy  Proch  and  Victoria 
Fazo  in  Southington,  CT,  on  August  12.  1984. 
Victoria  graduated  from  Western  Connecticut 
State  University  with  a  degree  in  elementary 
education.  Timothy  is  with  IBM  in  Boca  Raton. 
FL.  .  .  .  John  Roberts  and  Iris  Papaioanou  in 
Haverhill.  MA.  on  June  23.  1984.  She  gradu- 
ated from  Bates  College,  Lewiston.  ME.  He 
works  for  RCA.  Burlington.  MA.  .  .  .  Richard 
Testa,  Jr.  and  Donna  Lee  Stetson  in  Natick. 
MA,  on  August  11,  1984.  She  graduated  from 
UMass,  Amherst,  and  is  currently  a  graduate 
student  at  Northeastern.  He  is  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  MIT. 

MARRIED:  Roger  Uszakiewicz  to  Lori 
Zemeir  in  Naugatuck,  CT,  on  September  8, 
1984.  Lori  holds  a  degree  in  physical  therapy 
from  Russell  Sage  College.  Roger  works  for 
Turner  Construction  Co.,  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  Douglas  Valentine  to  Allyson  Twomey  in 
East  Brookfield,  MA.  Allyson  is  a  student  at 
Assumption  College,  Worcester,  and  Douglas 
an  assistant  pharmacist  for  Pfizer  Pharmaceuti- 


<** 


Jacobson  and  "Yea  Gage  ". 

faces  and  outdoor  signs. 

"Some  of  our  panels  are  on  submarine 
decks  and  in  use  on  space  shuttles,"  Bruce 
says.  They  are  used  by  industries  in 
Detroit  and  by  companies  such  as  Heald, 
Norton  and  Raytheon  in  Massachusetts. 
They  are  also  on  the  new  dedication 
plaques  in  Washburn  Shops  at  WPI. 
Washburn  is  a  fitting  site  for  Photopanels: 
Bruce 's  grandfather,  Enoch  Sandstrom, 
once  taught  there. 

Bruce  is  vice  president  of  the  Princeton 
Businessmen's  Association,  a  captain  with 
the  town  fire  department  and  an  emer- 
gency medical  technician. 

"I  had  a  happy  emergency  last  spring," 
he  reports.  "I  brought  a  baby  girl  into  the 
world  right  in  the  hospital  parking  lot!" 


cals.  .  .  .  Paul  Vanslette  and  Cynthia  Chapman 
in  Medfield,  MA.  Cynthia  is  employed  at  Digi- 
tal. Paul  works  at  Intellution.  .  .  .  David  Viens 
and  Nancy  Zimmerman  on  August  18,  1984. 
in  Barrington,  RI.  Nancy  works  for  GE  and 
David  for  Procter  &  Gamble.  .  .  .  David 
Wesche  to  Wendy  Larson  in  Shrewsbury,  MA, 
on  July  27.  1984.  Wendy  attended  Becker  and 
is  a  secretary  at  Norton  Co.  David  is  supervisor 
of  personal  computer  software  manufacturing  at 
DEC.  Northboro. 

Carl  Benda  continues  as  a  graduate  student 
in  the  ME  department  at  WPI. 

Lawrence  Bis  works  for  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric Corp. 

Stephen  Breininger  has  been  employed  by 
GenRad. 

Paul  Bresten  is  a  graduate  teaching  assistant 
in  the  EE  department  at  WPI. 

Michael  Briere  is  with  IBM. 

David  Brin  has  been  named  to  the  staff  at 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp. 

Karen  Brock  has  been  employed  by  General 
Electric. 

Harold  Broker  is  with  IBM. 

Robin  Brown  works  for  Raytheon  Com- 
pany. 

Paul  Brozek  is  studying  at  UMass. 

Robert  Bunce  has  been  employed  as  a  test 


equipment  engineer  by  IBM  in  East  Fishkill, 
NY.  He  is  directly  involved  with  the  design  of 
state-of-the-art  computers  for  testing  semi-con- 
ductor devices. 

Jeffrey  Burdick  works  for  IBM . 

Randy  Burnham  is  with  Mitre  Corporation. 

Scott  Burton  has  joined  American  Tele- 
phone &  Telegraph. 

James  Cadman  has  been  employed  by  Data 
General. 

Ronald  Caldwell  works  for  IBM. 

Fabio  Carrera  has  been  employed  by  BTU/ 
Bruce  Corp. 

John  B.  Carroll  is  a  nuclear  engineer  and  an 
officer  in  the  U.S.  Navy. 

John  P.  Carroll  works  for  DEC. 

John  Casey  has  been  employed  by  Mitre 
Corporation. 

John  Cassidy  has  joined  IBM. 

Christine  Cataldo  is  employed  by  General 
Electric. 

Luring  Chadwick  is  serving  with  the  U.S. 
Air  Force. 

Lee-Anne  Charbonneau  serves  as  an  asso- 
ciate engineer  at  Westinghouse  Electric  Co.. 
Annapolis,  MD. 

Laurence  Chin  works  for  Data  General. 

Robert  Chin  has  been  employed  by  Tera- 
dyne Inc. 

Pyong  Tae  Chong  has  joined  AT&T  Tele- 
type. 

Todd  Cimino  is  with  Schlumberger  Well 
Service. 

Laurie  Cocchi  works  for  Westinghouse. 

David  Coffin  is  currently  with  the  Raytheon 
Company. 

Mark  Coggeshall  has  been  employed  by 
Data  General. 

Brian  Coleman  serves  with  the  U.S.  Army. 

Kevin  Collamore  is  serving  with  the  U.S. 
Air  Force. 

Raymond  Comparetta  is  now  with  Daniels 
Construction  Co. 

Kevin  Conlon  has  been  employed  by  Data 
General. 

Susan  Coombs  holds  the  post  of  programmer 
for  decision  support  evaluation  at  IBM  in  White 
Plains,  NY. 

Karen  Crall  works  as  a  research  chemist  at 
Sanncor  Industries  in  Leominster,  MA. 

Steven  Criscione  has  joined  the  Charles 
Stark  Draper  Lab. 

Kathy  Cronin  is  a  student  at  Virginia  Tech. 

Brian  Cull  is  now  with  GE. 

Catherine  Culnane  has  been  employed  by 
American  Management  Systems. 

Matthew  Cummings  works  for  EPSCO  Inc. 

Michael  Curtin  works  for  Raytheon  Com- 
pany. 

Gayle  Dalawrak  is  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 

Cathryn  Dalton  works  for  General  Electric. 

Bruce  Daube  is  studying  at  California  Insti- 
tute of  Technology. 

Elenora  Davies  serves  as  a  technical  systems 
programmer  for  Paul  Revere  Insurance.  Wor- 
cester. 

Jennifer  Davis  has  joined  Engenics. 

Karen  DeGrace  works  for  BETAC  Corp. 

John  Delaney  is  at  Rockefeller  University. 

Robert  DeMattia  is  with  the  Department  of 
Defense,  Ft.  Meade,  MD. 

Kenneth  Dieselman  works  for  the  American 
Hospital  Supply  Corporation. 

Gianni  Dintino  has  been  employed  by  Con- 
solidated Edison. 

Michael  Dowd  holds  the  post  of  product 


FEBRUARY  1985       53 


manager  at  Wright  Line  in  Worcester.  He  has 
an  AB  from  Assumption  College. 

Randall  Drabczuk  is  .serving  with  the  Air 
Force. 

Gregory  Durand  has  joined  General 
Dynamics"  Electric  Boat  Division.  Groton.  CT. 

David  Dymek  is  a  s>  stems  engineer  at 
Hewlett-Packard.  Andover,  MA 

Maura  Eagen  is  on  the  stiff  at  Norton  Co. 

Brett  Edelson  works  for  Data  General. 

John  Ekberg  is  a  supervisor  for  DEC  in  Lit- 
tleton. MA 

Daniel  Farrar  works  forGE. 

Brett  Feddersen  is  studying  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Illinois. 

Alan  Feitelberg  is  at  MIT 

Andrea  Fielding  was  recently  employed  by 
Hughes  Aircraft  Co. 

Michael  Fields  has  joined  Raytheon. 

Stephen  Fiorelli  has  joined  the  staff  at  IBM. 

Tim  Fitzpatrick  is  stud\ing  for  his  MS  at 
Ste\ens  Tech.  He  resides  in  Allendale.  NJ. 

Timothy  Fitzsimmons  continues  as  a  grad 
student  at  WPI 

Glenn  Flanigan  works  for  Raytheon. 

Mary  Foley  has  been  employed  by  AT&T 
Technologies. 

Jeffrey  Forsythe  is  now  with  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corporation. 

Paul  Fortier  has  been  emplo\ed  by  Clairol. 

Joseph  Fortunato  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
Polytechnic  Institute  of  New  York. 

John  Foundas  has  been  employed  by  Ra\- 
theon  Company. 

John  Franzini  is  employed  by  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center. 

Daniel  Fretz  works  for  RCA. 

Tracy  Gamble  has  joined  Hamilton  Stan- 
dard. 

Charles  Garland  has  accepted  a  post  with 
Procter  &  Gamble  Company. 

Daniel  Genis  is  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp. 

Victor  Geraci  works  for  United  Nuclear 
Corp. 

Michael  Gilbert  works  for  General 
Dynamics*  Electric  Boat  Division. 

Paul  Gingrich,  who  has  his  MS  in  computer 
science  from  WPI.  is  currently  with  Schlum- 
berger  Research  Corp..  Ridgefield.  CT.  where 
he  is  involved  in  research  on  new  software  for 
the  company's  oilfield  services. 

Lawrence  Glennon  II  works  for  AVCO  S>  s- 
tems  Division. 

Paul  Graham.  Jr.  is  employed  by  New 
England  Power. 

Derek  Granquist  is  on  the  staff  at  Raytheon 
Company. 

Paul  Grautski  is  now  with  The  Gillette  Co. 

Frederick  Gummow  works  for  IBM. 

Jeffrev  Gwvnne  has  joined  Bell  Labs.  He 
holds  an'MSEE  from  WPI. 

James  Hagerott  has  accepted  a  post  with 
Schlumberger  Well  Services. 

Greg  Hagopian  works  for  McDonnell 
Douglas  Corp. 

Richard  Hajec  has  joined  AT&T. 

David  Hall  is  in  the  manufacturing  manage- 
ment program  at  General  Electric  in  Svracuse. 
NY 

Harry  Hall  serves  as  a  programmer  at  IBM 
in  Owego.  NY 

Steven  Hall  is  on  the  staff  of  Schlumberger 
Well  Service 

Philip  Hallee  has  accepted  a  post  with 
GenRad. 


Nicholas  Hannon  is  on  the  staff  at  IBM. 

Paul  Harriman  works  for  Manufacturer's 
Business  Systems. 

Sandra  Harris  is  studying  at  UMass. 

Deborah  Harrow  serves  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer for  IBM  in  Savannah.  GA. 

Robin  Hart  is  employed  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  Digital  in  Marlboro.  MA. 

Gregory  Hauck  is  a  member  of  the  technical 
staff  at  Mitre  Corp..  Bedford.  MA.  He  has  a  BS 
in  engineering  science  and  math  from  Regis 
College.  Denver.  CO. 

George  Hayeck  continues  as  a  full-time 
MBA  student  at  WPI 

John  Henderson  w  orks  for  Camp  Dresser  & 
McKee. 

G.  Christopher  Heyl  has  accepted  a  post 
with  the  firearms  division  of  Colt  Industries. 

Dean  Holman  is  now  with  Mitre  Corpora- 
tion. 

William  Holman  works  for  Teradyne  Inc. 

Paul  Holmes  is  with  Fairchild-Weston  sys- 
tems. 

Jack  Holzman  holds  the  post  of  associate 
engineer  at  General  Dynamics"  Electric  Boat 
Division.  Groton.  CT. 

Roy  Hopgood  continues  with  Alloy  CRD. 

Paul  Huehmer  works  for  Computen  ision. 

James  Huffnagle  has  been  employed  by 
RCA. 

Peter  Hunt  is  working  for  Stone  &  Webster. 

Scott  Hunt  is  now  at  Newport  News  Ship- 
building. 

Robert  Hunter  is  w  ith  Sanders  Associates. 

William  Hyland  has  been  employed  as  a 
product  engineer  at  Teradyne.  Nashua.  NH. 


Natural  Science  Program 

Robert  Raymond.  '79,  is  starting  his   16th 
year  as  a  chemistry   teacher  in  the  science 


department  at  Mahar  Regional  School  in 
Orange.  MA.  .  .  .  Francis  Gingras,  '81.  has 
retired  as  a  science  teacher  at  Gardner  (MA) 
High  School  following  16  years  of  service. 


School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Charles  Adams,  '55,  director  of  procurement 
for  Wright  Line  Inc..  Worcester,  was  recently 
elected  president  of  the  Purchasing  Manage- 
ment Association  of  Worcester.  He  has  served 
the  group  as  vice  president,  director  and  chair- 
man of  the  professional  development  com- 
mittee. In  1981 .  he  earned  the  professional  des- 
ignation of  certified  purchasing  manager.  .  .  . 
Stephen  McCabe,  '64.  serves  as  executive 
vice  president  of  J.C.  Carter  Co.  in  Costa 
Mesa.  CA. 

Richard  Alliegro.  '67,  has  been  elected  vice 
president  of  high-performance  ceramics  by 
Norton  Co..  Worcester.  He  is  responsible  for 
the  overall  management  of  the  firm's  high-per- 
formance ceramics  business  unit.  Previously, 
he  had  been  divisional  vice  president  and  gen- 
eral manager  of  U.S.  operations  for  the  indus- 
trial ceramics  business  unit.  He  graduated  from 
Alfred  University's  College  of  Ceramics  with 
bachelor's  and  master's  degrees  in  ceramic 
engineering.  Throughout  his  Norton  career,  he 
has  been  involved  in  the  development  of  new 
business  opportunities  for  the  Industrial 
Ceramics  Division.  Some  of  these  were  armor 
used  in  military  aircraft  protection:  Crystar. 
which  is  used  in  diffusion  components  in  the 
electronics  field:  igniters  and  ceramic  kiln  fur- 
niture. Besides  WPI's  School  of  Industrial 
Management,  Alliegro  attended  the  Advanced 
School  of  Management  at  Northeastern  Univer- 
sity. 


1  COMPLETED  CAREERS 


George  E.  Chick,  '13,  the  retired  treasurer  of 
John  F.  Chick  &  Son  Inc..  died  at  the  Fryeburg 
i  ME i  Health  Care  Center  on  June  16.  1984. 
following  a  short  illness. 

He  was  bom  on  Sept.  10.  1891.  in  Silver 
Lake.  NH.  Graduated  with  his  BSME  from 
WPI.  he  spent  his  entire  career  with  John  F. 
Chick  &  Son.  a  lumber  company  in  Madison. 
NH.  where  he  had  been  a  partner,  proprietor, 
president,  general  manager  and  treasurer. 

Mr.  Chick  was  a  past  master  of  his  local 
Masonic  lodge,  a  charter  member  of  the  Ossi- 
pee  Rotary  Club  and  a  past  director  of  the 
Northeastern  Retail  Lumber  Dealers  Associa- 
tion. He  was  a  past  president  of  the  New 
England  Architectural  Woodwork  Institute  and 
of  the  Carroll  County  YMCA.  which  he  had 
also  served  as  original  director.  He  belonged  to 
ASME.  the  Baptist  Church  and  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha. 

Albert  J.  Lorion,  '13,  a  retired  industrial  engi- 
neer, died  in  Morristown.  NJ.  on  July  10.  1984. 
He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  Oct.  9.  1 89 1 .  and 
he  received  a  BSCE  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  the  Freight 
Container  Bureau,   the  Grand  Trunk   Pacific 


Railroad.  Cambria  Steel  Company,  and  West- 
inghouse. Church.  Kerr  &  Co.  At  one  time,  he 
was  traffic  manager  for  C.R  Perin-S.M.  Mar- 
shall, consulting  engineers.  He  retired  as  an 
industrial  engineer  from  Uniroyal  Co.  He  had 
served  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  in  the  U.S.  Army. 
A  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi.  Mr. 
Lorion  had  also  belonged  to  the  Montclair 
Engineers  Society.  He  was  a  former  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

Arthur  W.  Knowlton,  '14,  of  Rockport,  MA. 
died  on  April  14.  1984.  He  was  bom  in  Boston 
on  Sept.  2.  1890. 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  from  1914  to 
1921.  he  was  with  the  Boston  &  Maine  Rail- 
road. From  1921  to  1961.  when  he  retired,  he 
was  employed  by  Tredennick-Billings  Co., 
Boston.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  the 
Masons.  He  was  the  father  of  Donald 
Knowlton,  '51. 

Dick  G.  Wong,  '16,  passed  away  in  Provi- 
dence. RI.  on  March  22,  1984.  He  was  89 
years  old  and  a  native  of  San  Francisco. 


54       WPI  JOURNAL 


Robert  VV.  Stoddard 

(Editor's  note:  Shortly  before  press  time,  the 
college  and  the  community  learned  of  Mr.  Stod- 
dard's death.  Tims  the  brevity  of  this  notice.) 
Robert  W.  Stoddard,  a  WPI  trustee  emeritus, 
chairman  of  the  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette 
Inc.,  former  chairman  of  the  board  of  Wyman- 
Gordon  Co.,  and  a  founder  of  the  John  Birch 
Society,  died  December  14,  1984,  at  his  home 
in  Worcester.  He  was  78. 

Mr.  Stoddard  served  as  a  WPI  trustee  from 
1941  to  1946.  was  named  a  life  trustee  in  1952 
and  a  trustee  emeritus  in  1980.  In  1952,  he 
received  an  honorary  doctorate  from  the  col- 
lege. (His  father,  Harry  G.  Stoddard  (1873- 
1 969)  was  awarded  an  honorary  doctorate  from 
WPI  in  1941 .)  The  Stoddard  family  gave  major 
support  for  construction  of  WPI's  Stoddard 
Residence  and  is  responsible  for  the  Stoddard 
Professorship  in  Management. 

Besides  his  doctorate  from  WPI.  Mr.  Stod- 
dard held  honorary  degrees  from  Assumption 
College,  Worcester,  and  Piedmont  College, 
Greenwood,  SC.  He  was  born  in  Trenton.  NJ, 
in  1906. 

Robert  Stoddard  was  a  successful  business- 
man, community  leader  and  philanthropist.  He 
succeeded  his  father  as  president  of  Wyman- 
Gordon.  had  served  as  chairman  of  the  Worces- 
ter Airport  Commission,  and  as  a  director  of 
numerous  institutions  including  the  First 
National  Bank  of  Boston,  the  International 
Paper  Company  and  Raytheon  Companv.  He 
had  been  a  trustee  of  the  Worcester  Foundation 
for  Experimental  Biology.  Worcester  Academy 
and  the  Worcester  Art  Museum. 

As  his  father  gradually  retired  from  active 
responsibility  for  the  Telegram  and  Gazette. 
Robert  Stoddard's  role  became  more  signifi- 
cant. In  1963,  he  was  named  chairman  of  the 
board  of  the  newspapers.  He  was  strongly  corn- 
Mr.  Wong  owned  the  former  Hong  Hong 
Restaurant,  now  the  Players  Corner  Pub.  in 
Providence  for  40  years  prior  to  its  closing  in 
1970. 

Louis  E.  Jacoby,  '17,  of  Woodmere,  Long 
Island.  NY,  died  on  March  26.  1984,  at  the  age 
of  88.  He  was  born  on  Oct.  12,  1895.  in  New 
York  City.  He  studied  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 
For  many  years,  he  was  a  sales  executive 
with  Century  Industries  Inc.  of  New  York, 
retiring  in  1970.  He  was  a  member  of  Theta 
Chi. 

Clarence  B.  Tilton,  '17,  a  former  ceramics 
engineer  for  Norton  Co. .  died  in  Ravenna.  OH. 
on  June  4.  1984.  He  was  90  and  a  Fitchburg, 
MA,  native. 

He  graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI  and 
soon  joined  Norton's  research  lab  in  Worcester. 
In  1918,  he  was  with  the  Chemical  Warfare 
Service.  From  1919  to  1937,  he  was  vice  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  Cortland  Grinding 
Wheel  Corp.  and  from  1937  to  1948.  he  held 
the  same  posts  with  the  Safety  Grinding  Wheel 
&  Machine  Co.  He  had  been  assistant  to  the 
president  and  research  director  at  Simonds 
Worden  White.  In  1959.  he  retired. 

He  was  a  member  of  both  the  Dayton  and 
Springfield  (OH)  engineering  societies  and  a 
former  vice  president  of  the  Clark  County  TB 
and  Health  League.  He  belonged  to  the  Execu- 
tives Club  and  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 


mitted  to  maintaining  the  Worcester  newspa- 
pers and  Radio  Station  WTAG  under  local  con- 
trol and  ownership  and  for  keeping  editorial 
policy  entirely  separate  from  news  reporting, 
while  remaining  conservative  politically. 

Mr.  Stoddard,  a  graduate  of  Yale  University 
and  Harvard  Business  School,  retired  as  chair- 
man of  the  board  of  Wy man-Gordon  in  1972 
after  43  years  with  the  company.  He  was  named 
honorary  chairman  of  the  company's  board  of 
directors.  Wyman-Gordon  is  the  Western 
world's  largest  supplier  of  forgings  to  the  auto- 
motive, aerospace  and  gas  turbine  industries. 

In  1958.  Mr.  Stoddard  became  one  of  the 
founders  of  the  John  Birch  Society,  serving  as  a 
member  of  its  council  and  executive  commit- 
tee. He  was  a  firm  believer  in  the  strengths  of 
the  American  economic  system  and  a  leading 
proponent  of  free  enterprise. 

As  a  philanthropist,  Mr.  Stoddard  was  a 
strong  supporter  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America, 
and  was  a  recipient  of  the  Silver  Beaver  Award, 
the  highest  honor  granted  by  the  Boy  Scouts  for 
service  by  adult  leaders  to  youth.  He  was  a 
prime  benefactor  in  the  growth  of  the  Worcester 
Science  Center.  An  avid  big-game  hunter,  he 
donated  many  specimens  to  the  science  center 
for  its  African  exhibit,  regarded  as  the  finest  of 
its  kind  in  the  country. 

Mr.  Stoddard  also  enjoyed  flying,  photogra- 
phy and  travel,  but  he  claimed  that  salmon  fish- 
ing was  his  first  love.  He  belonged  to  the  First 
Baptist  Church,  the  American  Antiquarian 
Society,  the  Worcester  Club,  Worcester  Coun- 
try Club  and  Tatnuck  Country  Club.  His  grand- 
son Thomas  Loring  is  a  member  of  the  WPI 
Class  of  1988. 

WPI  and  the  Worcester  community  have  lost 
a  leading  friend  of  education,  science,  the  arts, 
philanthropy  and  commerce.  We  join  his  fam- 
ily, friends  and  colleagues  in  mourning  his 
death  but  rejoice  with  them  in  his  memory. 

Ernest  Thompson  Jr.,  '20,  former  chief  engi- 
neer at  Wilputte  Coke  Oven  Corp.,  died  in 
Worcester  on  August  26.  1984.  at  the  age  of  86. 
He  was  a  Worcester  native  and  a  graduate  civil 
engineer  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  McClintic- 
Marshall.  Morgan  Construction  and  Koppers 
Construction.  From  1937.  until  his  retirement 
in  1962,  he  was  chief  engineer  for  Wilputte 
Coke  Oven  Corp.,  a  division  of  Allied  Chemi- 
cal Corp.  in  New  York  City. 

Mr.  Thompson,  brother  of  Lincoln  Thomp- 
son, '21.  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Tau 
Beta  Pi  and  the  Salem  Covenant  Church.  He 
was  a  veteran  and  subsequently  served  in  the 
Army  Reserves. 

C.  Freeman  Hawley,  '23,  a  longtime 
employee  of  Riley  Stoker  Corp..  Worcester, 
died  in  Worcester  on  August  7,  1984,  at  the  age 
of  82.  A  native  of  Brattleboro.  VT.  he  was  a 
graduate  mechanical  engineer  from  WPI. 

In  1967.  he  retired  as  chief  mechanical  engi- 
neer at  Riley  Stoker,  Worcester,  following  44 
years  of  service.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi.  Tau 
Beta  Pi.  the  Tech  Old-Timers.  the  Worcester 
Engineering  Society.  ASME.  the  Massachu- 
setts and  New  York  societies  of  professional 
engineers  and  the  Worcester  County  Mechanics 
Association. 

Mr.  Hawley  was  the  father  of  Bradford 
Haw  lev,  '51,  and  the  grandfather  of  David 
Hawley,  '78. 


Gifford  T.  Cook,  '28,  of  Harpers  Ferry.  WV. 
an  internationally  known  fire  prevention  engi- 
neer, passed  away  last  summer.  He  was  born  in 
Fall  River.  MA.  on  Sept.  11.  1907.  He 
received  his  BSCE  from  WPI. 

During  his  career,  he  was  a  fire  prevention 
engineer  for  the  National  Board  of  Fire  Under- 
writers in  Chicago;  assistant  manager  of  the 
International  Association  of  Fire  Chiefs.  New 
York  City:  and  a  fire  prevention  engineer  for 
the  U.S.  War  Department,  office  of  the  chief 
engineer,  Washington,  DC.  and  later  with  the 
U.S.  Air  Force,  also  in  Washington. 

In  1946,  he  was  awarded  the  Emblem  for 
Meritorious  Civil  Service  by  the  War  Depart- 
ment in  recognition  of  his  services  as  chief  of 
the  fire  prevention  section,  air  installations  divi- 
sion. Army  Air  Forces  (AAF).  He  was  cited  for 
the  reduction  in  fire  losses  within  the  AAF 
because  of  his  success  in  perfecting  the  AAF's 
organization  and  for  his  training  of  fire  preven- 
tion and  protection  personnel. 

A  registered  professional  engineer  in  Wis- 
consin, he  was  also  a  member  of  the  Federal 
Fire  Council,  the  President's  Conference  on 
Fire  Prevention,  the  National  Fire  Protection 
Association  and  the  American  Society  of  Fire 
Protection  Engineers.  He  belonged  to  ATO. 
Skull  and  the  Poly  Club,  and  he  had  served  as 
class  secretary.  Last  winter  he  and  his  wife, 
Marianne,  spent  86  days  skiing  in  Austria. 

Edward  N.  Wooding,  '28,  of  Hamden.  CT. 
passed  away  on  May  22,  1984.  He  was  bom  on 
June  9.  1905.  in  Wallingford.  CT.  and  he  stud- 
ied mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 

After  two  years  with  Henry  R.  Kent  Co.. 
Rutherford.  NJ.  he  worked  for  the  Central  Cold 
Storage  Corp.  of  New  Haven.  CT.  first  as  man- 
ager, then  as  president-owner.  He  retired  in 
1975. 

Mr.  Wooding  belonged  to  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha.  Active  with  the  Rotary  club,  the 
Masons,  and  the  local  library,  he  also  served  20 
years  as  treasurer  of  his  church. 

Whitney  F.  Schuka,  '30,  a  longtime  employee 
of  the  Newport  (RI)  Naval  Base,  died  in  Wey- 
mouth. MA.  on  July  24.  1984.  A  Worcester 
native,  he  was  bom  on  Dec.  7,  1908. 

A  graduate  civil  engineer,  during  his  career 
he  was  with  Fred  T.  Ley  &  Co.  and  the  Rural 
Electrification  Survey  in  Worcester.  For  many 
years,  he  was  associated  with  the  U.S.  Navy 
Public  Works  Center  in  Newport.  RI.  as  well  as 
with  the  Navy's  ammunition  depot  in  Hingham. 
MA.  From  1941  to  1951,  he  was  a  civilian 
assistant  to  the  manager  of  all  Navy  projects  at 
the  Boston  Navy  Yard. 

In  1972,  he  was  named  building  commis- 
sioner in  Hingham,  MA.  He  belonged  to  Sigma 
Xi. 

C.  Stanley  Brewer,  '33,  a  veteran  employee  of 
the  New  England  Power  Company,  died  on 
July  12,  1984".  in  Hanover.  NH.  He  was  73  and 
a  native  of  Worcester. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical 
engineer,  he  joined  New  England  Power  Co.  In 
1974.  he  retired  as  superintendent  of  the  hydro 
division  after  40  years  of  service.  He  was  a 
professional  engineer  in  Massachusetts.  An 
active  member  of  the  Congregational  Church 
and  the  Shrine,  he  also  had  served  as  master  of 
the  Masonic  Lodge  in  Shelbume  Falls.  MA  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 


FEBRUARY  1985       55 


Walter  J.  kowal.  '34.  died  June  13.  1 

Massacfansetts  Hospital  in 

I     A  nam  e  of  Spencer. 

MA.  he  graduated  from  WP1  with  a  BSME. 

Prior  to  retiring  in  1972,  he  had  been  a  metal- 

jt  Lombard  Governor  Corp.  in  Ashland 

At  one  time,  he  was  with  Morgan 

I  member  of 

Gar  Lat  chow  a  Church. 

Charles  R.  Varne>.  Jr..  "34.  passed  awav  at 
his  home  in  North  Brookfield.  MA.  on  June  24. 

Until  retiring  several  vears  ago.  he  owned 

and  operated  Yamev  "s  Electrical  Service  Inc. 

>ince  founding  the  firm  in  1947.  Previoush.  he 

owned  Varnev  s  Radio  &.  Electncal  Shop.  Dur- 

:>rld  War  II.  he  w  as  in  the  Navy . 

Mr.  Yamev  had  served  on  the  town  board  of 
library  trustees  and  on  the  town  finance  board. 
He  belonged  to  the  Massachusetts  Electncal 
Contractors  Association  and  Meridian  Sun 
Lodge  of  Masons . 

Edward  E.  Turner.  "38.  who  was  retired  from 
Hughes  Aircraft  after  22  vears  of  service,  died 
on  Mav  9.  1984.  He  was  born  in  New  Haven. 
CT.  on  June  10.  1916. 

In  1938.  he  received  his  BSME  from  WPI 
After  working  for  Seamless  Rubber,  the  New 
Haven  Railroad  and  Austad  Steel,  in  1952  he 
joined  Hughes  Aircraft.  Tucson.  AZ.  where  he 
served  as  plant  engineer.  A  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Arizona,  he  also  belonged  to 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  the  Poly  Club. 

Lawrence  C.  Neale.  "40.  an  internationally 
know  n  hydraulic  expert  and  former  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  and  director  of  Alden 
Research  Laboratories  at  WPI.  died  in  St. 
Louis.  MO.  on  October  24.  1984.  while  on  a 
business  tnp. 

He  was  66.  a  native  of  Way  land.  MA.  and  a 
graduate  civil  engineer  from  WPI.  In  1958.  he 
received  his  MSME. 

After  leaving  WPI  in  1975.  Prof.  Neale 
joined  Chas.  T.  Main  Inc..  Boston,  as  chief 
flow  specialist  and  chief  hy  draulic  engineer.  He 
was  w  ith  the  international  consulting  engineer- 
ing firm  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

In  1940.  he  joined  the  WPI  faculty  as  an 
instructor  at  Alden  Hydraulic  Laboratory, 
where  he  conducted  studies  in  river  models, 
structural  models,  flow  calibrations  and 
machinery  studies.  In  1950.  he  was  named 
assistant  director  of  Alden  Research  Labora- 
tory: he  was  named  assistant  professor  in  1957. 
a  director  of  the  laboratory  in  1 968  and  a  pro- 
fessor in  1 965 . 

At  Main,  he  dealt  with  hydraulic  aspects  of 
design,  including  hydraulic  problems  experi- 
enced during  construction  and  operation.  He 
was  concerned  with  spillways,  energv  dissipa- 
tion, shore  protection,  thermal  plumes  and  flow 
measurement.  His  field  testing  included 
hydraulic  turbines,  pumps,  flow  and  ocean  cur- 
rent surveys  and  inspections  of  hydraulic  equip- 
ment in  North  America.  Europe  and  Asia.  He 
-egistered  professional  engineer  in  Mas- 
sachusetts. 

_  B  taught  courses  at  WPI  in  fluid 
mechanics  and  aided  in  thesis  work  for 
advanced  engineering  degrees.  At  Alden  Labo- 
ratories, he  was  responsible  for  all  activities, 
including  mode!  studies  of  thermal  effects  from 
condenser  discharge 


Fluent  in  French  and  Russian.  Prof.  Neale 
served  as  U.S.  representative  for  the  Interna- 
tional Electroteehnical  Committee  and 
member  of  the  board  on  Performance  Test 
Codes,  the  Fluid  Meters  Committee  and  the 
International  Standardization  Committee,  all 
for  the  ASME.  He  was  a  fellow  of  the  ASME 
and  the  ASCE.  as  well  as  a  director  of  the  Bos- 
ton Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  a  member  of 
the  International  Association  of  Hydraulic 
cfc  and  of  the  American  Geophysical 
Union. 

He  was  honored  as  a  John  R  Freeman  fellow 
in  1954  and  1955  and  received  the  Worcester 
Engineering  Society  Scientific  Achievement 
Award  in  1974  and  the  ASME  Centennial 
Award  in  1980.  The  author  of  numerous  engi- 
neering publications,  he  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi. 
Pi  Tau  Sigma.  Chi  Epsilon  and  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha. 

In  World  War  II.  Prof.  Neale  served  in  the 
Pacific  and  the  Philippines  with  the  US 
later  retiring  from  the  Navy  Reserve  with  the 
rank  of  lieutenant  commander. 

.Alan  V  Sanderson.  '43.  of  Houston.  TX. 
passed  away  recently.  A  native  of  Milton.  VT. 
he  was  born  on  Oct.  15.  1922.  He  was  a  gradu- 
ate chemical  engineer. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Air  Corps  from  1943  to  1947.  then 
served  many  vears  as  principal  meteorologist 
with  the  U.S.  Weather  Bureau  and  as  chief  of 
spaceflight  meteorology  at  the  NASA  Manned 
Spacecraft  Center  in  Houston.  He  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  American  Meteorological  Society 
and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

Bernard  L.  Beisecker.  Jr..  "46.  died  in 
Warwick.  RI.  on  July  5.  1984.  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  59. 

A  native  of  Ellwood  City.  PA.  he  later  gradu- 
ated as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  In 
1959.  he  graduated  from  WPI's  School  of 
Industrial  Management.  During  his  career,  he 
was  vice  president  of  manufacturing  at  Reed  & 
Prince  Co..  Worcester,  and  vice  president  of 
Microdot  Inc..  Frankfort.  KY.  He  retired  in 
Mav  as  vice  president  of  manufacturing  at 
Industrial  Fastener.  Long  Island.  NY 

Mr  Beisecker.  a  Mason,  and  a  member  of 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  was  a  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Navy  in  World  War  II.  He  was  the  father 
of  Wayne  Beisecker.  '78. 

Walter  D.  .Allen.  Jr.,  '49,  a  marketing  execu- 
tive, died  Julv  9.  1984.  at  his  home  in  Glaston- 
bury. CT.  at  the  age  of  59.  He  was  bom  in 
Worcester. 

A  graduate  mechanical  engineer,  for  many 
years  he  was  an  executiv e  in  the  marketing  divi- 
sion at  Pratt  &.  Whitney  Aircraft  Division  of 
United  Technologies  in  East  Hartford.  CT.  He 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon.  the  Congrega- 
tional Church,  the  Connecticut  Parachuting 
Corp..  ASME  and  the  American  Society  of 
Experimental  Test  Pilots.  An  Army  Air  Corps 
veteran  of  World  War  II.  he  also  served  in 
Korea. 

Robert  R.  Atherton,  "50.  of  Jupiter.  FL. 
passed  away  on  Julv  7.  1984.  Bom  on  July  4. 

-1~  he  was  a  native  of  Pittsburgh.  PA.  and 
received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 

From  1950  to  1955.  he  was  with  Wes- 
tinghouse  Electric  Corp.   For  many   years  he 


was  an  employee  of  Pratt  &.  Whitney  Aircraft, 
in  East  Hartford.  CT.  and  West  Palm  Beach. 
FL.  He  served  as  a  project  engineer  and  man- 
ager for  the  firm. 

Mr.  Atherton  belonged  to  SAE.  Sigma  Xi. 
ASME  and  the  American  Rocket  Society . 

.Alexander  T.  Cyganiewicz.  "50.  chief  estima- 
tor at  S.J.  Cum  &.  Co..  Albany.  GA.  died  on 
June  23.  1984.  He  was  bom  in  Gardner.  MA. 
on  Feb.  26. 1918. 

In  1950.  he  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  WPI.  Prior  to  joining  Curry,  he  had  been 
associated  with  the  Massachusetts  State  High- 
way Dept.  and  J.B.  Lowell  Inc..  Worcester  He 
served  in  the  Armv  Air  Force  for  six  years  and 
was  discharged  as  a  lieutenant  colonel. 

Stuart  P.  Roberts.  "60,  founder  and  president 
of  S&S  Electronics  Inc..  Lowell.  MA  died 
Julv  15.  1984.  in  Concord.  MA.  He  was  46.  a 
native  of  Lakewood.  OH.  and  a  graduate  elec- 
trical engineer. 

During  his  career,  he  was  w  ith  General  Radio 
Co ..  Non-Linear  Systems  and  Wang  Laborato- 
ries. In  1970.  he  founded  S&S  Electronics.  He 
was  a  32nd-degree  Mason  and  a  former  trustee 
of  the  Methodist  Church  of  Westford.  Other 
memberships  w  ere  w  ith  the  National  Rifle 
Association,  the  Boat  Owners'  Association  of 
the  United  States  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

A  talented  musician,  he  was  a  member  of  the 
Chelmsford  Community  Band  and  also  partici- 
pated in  jazz  concerts.  He  was  a  licensed  ham 
radio  operator,  as  well  as  a  licensed  pilot.  He 
was  the  brother  of  Alan  Roberts.  '63. 

William  A.  St.  John.  Jr..  '83.  died  recentlv. 
He  was  bom  in  Holvoke.  MA.  on  Jan.  26. 
1961.  In  1983.  he  graduated  with  his  BSEE 
from  WPI 

He  was  a  customer  service  engineer  for 
Hewlett-Packard  Co..  Colorado  Springs.  CO  . 
and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Eta  Kappa  Nu. 


On  Rainbows 

Editor: 

Re:  The  interesting  article  on  rainbows, 

especially  the  last  paragraph,  page  XI,  in 

the  August  1984  issue. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  passage  in  the 
Bible.  Genesis  Chapter  9.  where  Noah 
was  extricating  himself  from  the  flood. 

God  said  as  recorded  in  verses  14-18 
that  he  would  establish  the  rainbow  as  a 
covenant  that  there  would  be  no  more 
floods. 

Perhaps  this  helps  explain  the  continu- 
ing questions  to  which  Mr.  Lee  refers. 

Allen  H.Gndry  Jr.. '38 
Syracuse.  NY 

Editor: 

An  editorial  error  has  been  introduced  into 

my  article  on  rainbows  (August   1984 


wTI  JOURNAL 


issue):  It  is  not  true  that  "at  each  bounce. 
94  percent  of  the  ray's  energy  is  refracted 
out  of  the  drop"  (page  IV).  The  amount  of 
light  refracted  or  reflected  by  a  raindrop  is 
not  constant.  Among  other  things,  it 
depends  on  the  angle  at  which  a  light  ray 
meets  any  air-water  boundary. 

In  addition,  I  disagree  with  several  of 
Ed  Thorsett's  "Photographing  Tips." 

You  should  not  always  underexpose 
rainbow  pictures,  as  he  advises  in  tip  (1). 
Apparently,  Mr.  Thorsett  is  referring  to 
the  fact  that  the  interior  of  the  main  bow 
may  appear  considerably  brighter  than  the 
background.  However,  this  is  not  always 
the  case.  His  best  advice  is  in  tip  (2): 
bracket  your  exposure. 

Neither  Alistair  Fraser  nor  I  recommend 
you  abandon  your  polarizing  filter  when 
photographing  rainbows  (tip  5).  Although 
these  filters  will  reduce  the  intensity  of  the 
bows  (the  amount  depending  on  the  filter's 
orientation),  you  can  partly  compensate 
for  this  when  setting  the  exposure.  The 
important  point  here  is  that  rainbow  light 
is  itself  highly  polarized.  Far  from  being  a 
disadvantage,  a  polarizing  filter  can  let 
you  see  new  subtleties.  Case  in  point: 
some  of  the  photographs  appearing  in  the 
article  were  shot  using  a  polarizing  filter. 

Finally,  as  nearly  as  we  can  tell  without 
examining  the  original  photograph,  Mr. 
Thorsett  may  have  given  you  a  sample  of 
lens  flare,  not  a  rainbow.  Note  that  the  red 
is  toward  the  inside  of  the  arc,  that  the 
waterfall  is  not  sunlit,  and  that  the  scene 
appears  to  be  backlit. 

In  any  event,  I  hope  your  readers  will 
find  that  both  natural  bows  and  artists' 
bows  can  be  great  fun  to  study.  If  they 
have  any  questions  about  either,  they  may 
write  tome. 

Raymond  Lee,  Jr. 
Meteorology  Department 
Pennsylvania  State  University 
University  Park,  Pennsylvania  16802 

Higgins  House  Revisited 

Editor: 

Kudos  to  Lora  Brueck  for  her  excellent 
story  on  the  Higgins  House  (August 
1984).  As  a  member  of  one  of  the  early 
classes  to  occupy  Goddard  Hall.  I  can 
recall  looking  out  from  the  top  floor  to  a 
partially  obscured  view  of  Higgins  House, 
wondering  about  its  unique  architectural 
and  mystical  qualities.  Ms.  Brueck  has 
unraveled  the  mysteries  in  an  enjoyable 
narrative  and  pictorial  which  melds  history 
and  art. 

John  B.  Feldman  '67 
Lexington,  MA 


AMPERSAND 


The  End  of  Blah  Weekends 

Had  your  fill  of  weekends  that  revolve 
around  Sunday  afternoon  TV  sports?  Wish 
there  was  a  way  of  getting  away  for  a 
relaxing  weekend  where  you'd  meet  other 
alumni— and  learn  something  in  the  bar- 
gain? 

WPI's  new  "Weekender  Program"  may 
be  the  answer.  Between  now  and  May. 
alumni,  spouses  and  friends  can  attend  any 
of  three  weekend  getaways  on  Cape  Cod. 
in  Vermont  or  in  Maryland.  Chosen  for 
their  excellence  and  charm,  each  Week- 
ender location  provides  a  welcome  setting 
for  good  fellowship,  educational  stimula- 
tion, relaxation  and  recreation.  Some  loca- 

Here  are  the  dates,  themes  and  locations  of 
upcoming  Weekenders: 
March  8-10.  1985 
"Frontiers  of  the  Sea" 
Marine  Biological  Laboratories 
Woods  Hole,  Massachusetts 
At  one  of  the  nation's  leading  centers  for 
oceanography  and  marine  biology.   Dr. 
Ronald  Baird.   a  marine  biologist  and 
director  of  Corporate  Relations  at  WPI. 
will  host  this  fascinating  session.  You'll 
also  tour  the   Laboratories'   outstanding 
experimental   facilities  and  the  town  of 
Woods  Hole. 

April  19-21.  1985 
"Spring  Bursts  Forth" 

The  Woodstock  Inn 

Woodstock,  Vermont 

A  special  opportunity  to  experience  the 

photography  of  WPI's  George  Schmidt— 


tions  are  quaint  and  historical,  others  sim- 
ply luxurious. 

Friday  and  Saturday  evenings,  you'll 
dine  and  catch  up  on  what's  happening  on 
the  Hill.  Saturday  morning  will  find  you  at 
the  theme  program,  interacting  with 
experts  in  emerging  fields  of  science  and 
technology.  Saturday  afternoon,  you're  on 
your  own  for  tours  of  the  area,  recreation, 
shopping,  relaxation— whatever.  And  at 
Sunday  morning  brunch,  you'll  view 
"Washburn:  The  Tradition  Restored."  a 
multimedia  slide  show  depicting  the  his- 
tory and  dramatic  restoration  of  Washburn 
Shops,  rededicated  in  October  1984. 

and  to  hear  his  tips  on  the  techniques  that 
produce  his  feasts  for  the  eyes,  at  one  of 
New  England's  most  celebrated  inns,  dur- 
ing the  springtime  in  Vermont. 

May  10-12,  1985 
"Technology  and  Medicine" 

Historic  Inns  of  Annapolis 
Annapolis.  Maryland 

You'll  see  how  technology  is  changing  the 
practice  of  medicine,  from  WPI  Professors 
Joseph  Bagshaw  and  Robert  Peura  and 
faculty  from  Johns  Hopkins  University 
and  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  And 
Annapolis  in  May  is  spectacular. 

Prices  for  WPI  Weekenders  include  lodg- 
ing, meals,  taxes  and  gratuities. 

Find  out  more  about  WPI's  new  Week- 
enders, and  start  attacking  Mondays 
refreshed— and  better  informed,  too. 


Please  send  me  details  for  the  following  Weekender(s): 


Historic  Inns  of  Annapolis 

May  10-12.  1985 

S 1 80  per  person  double  occupancy 

$245  per  person  single  occupancy 


Marine  Biological  Laboratories 

March  8-10.  1985 

$90  per  person  double  occupancy 

$120  per  person  single  occupancy 
The  Woodstock  Inn 

April  19-21.  1985 

$190  per  person  double  occupancy 

$265  per  person  single  occupancy 
If  you  wish,  make  reservations  now  by  enclosing  a  check  for  $ ($25  per  per- 
son per  Weekender)  for  reservations.  (Checks  payable  to  WPI  Weekenders) 


Name 


Class  Year 


Address 


State 


Zip 


Telephone  (home) 


(business) 


Return  to: 

WPI  Weekenders  Program 
Office  of  Alumni  Relations 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
100  Institute  Road 
Worcester,  MA  01609 


Classes  of  1925,  '30,  '35,  '40,  '45,  '50, 
'55,  '60  and  '65. 


WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC*''  INSTITUTE5 


living  in 
Materials  World 


Tooling  Up  for  the 
Computer  Generation 


I  ,<6* 


* 


.'*   •> 


• 


■ 


. 


!!*'' 


Jin 


:■*-  .J\^ 


>** 


:' 


**& 


A  MESSAGE 


From  Harry  W.  Tenney,  Jr.  '56 
WPI  Alumni  Association  President 


^^^  It's  not  often  that 

^^^^k  we  step  back  to 

LwvatfB  reflect  on  an  im- 

portant  sphere  in 
our  lives.  As  my 
^^^k^^^^^    term  as  president 
4k        ^IVft    of    the    Alumni 
^^•^^«   Association    ap- 
Al    I   proaches         end 
I  in  June,  this  occa- 
I  sion  to  report  to 
you  gives  me  just  such  an  opportunity. 
The  past  two  years  represent  an  eventful 
period  in  the  history  of  the  WPI  commu- 
nity. And  in  the  last  decade  and  a  half, 
more  meaningful  changes  have  occurred  at 
WPI  than  in  perhaps  any  other  similar  era 
in  the  evolution  of  the  college. 

Beginning  in  the  early  1970s  with  the 
inception  of  WPI's  bold,  innovative  edu- 
cational program,  the  WPI  Plan;  to  the 
college  becoming  a  coeducational  institu- 
tion at  about  the  same  time;  to  renovations 
of  Salisbury  Laboratories,  Boynton  Hall, 
Atwater  Kent  Laboratories,  and,  last  year, 
the  Washburn  Shops,  the  past  15  years 
have  in  many  ways  rebuilt  the  foundations 
of  the  WPI  many  of  us  knew  as  undergrad- 
uates. 

Still,  for  all  this  change,  WPI  today  is 
far  stronger  and  more  responsive  to  the 
demands  of  technology  and  society  than  it 
has  ever  been.  The  decisions  to  rechart 
WPI's  course  were  indeed  invested  with 
foresight  and  the  wisdom  of  experience. 

The  "performance"  of  the  alumni  body 
and  the  Association,  too,  set  new  marks 
for  excellence  in  this  period. 

The  number  of  alumni,  for  example,  has 
grown  from  about  10,000  in  1973  to  more 
than  16,000  in  1985,  and  the  median  class 
has  shifted  from  1954  to  1969.  Today  the 
"average"  alumnus  is  about  37  years  old. 
But  more  significantly,  the  contribution  of 
alumni,  both  financially  and  through  per- 
sonal involvement  in  support  of  WPI  and 
its  programs,  has  been  nothing  short  of 
phenomenal. 

Consider  this: 
•  In  the  last  decade,  Alumni  Fund  contri- 
butions have  grown  from  $237,000  to,  for 


the  first  time,  over  $1  million  in  1983-84. 
At  the  same  time,  alumni  participation 
increased  from  33  to  41  percent. 

Because  of  this  growth,  WPI  has 
received  five  prestigious  U.S.  Steel/CASE 
(Council  for  the  Advancement  and  Sup- 
port of  Education)  awards  in  the  past  six 
years,  and  a  total  of  six  of  these  prizes,  a 
record  bettered  by  only  one  other  college 
in  the  country. 

•  The  Alumni  Admissions  program— just 
nine  years  old— has  grown  to  where  more 
than  400  alumni  contacted  1 ,295  prospec- 
tive students  in  1984.  This  program  is 
active  in  31  areas  throughout  the  country 
and  in  Puerto  Rico.  It  is  an  effort  that  is 
particularly  vital  to  WPI's  future,  consid- 
ering the  discouraging  demographic  pro- 
jections for  high  school  students  in  the 
coming  decade. 

•  In  the  past  two  years,  advisory  commit- 
tees have  been  formed  by  WPI  to  serve 
several  academic  departments.  Alumni  are 
playing  central  roles  in  this  important 
activity. 

•  Alumni  attendance  at  Homecoming  and 
Reunions  is  at  an  all-time  high,  with  no 
drop  in  sight. 

•  Revitalized  in  1982,  the  Student 
Alumni  Society  (SAS)  today  involves  115 
undergraduates.  This  popular  program  has 
been  instrumental  in  restoring  many  WPI 
traditions  and  in  creating  new  ones.  Read 
more  about  this  exciting  program  on  page 
41  of  this  issue  of  the  Journal. 

•  Activities  in  26  regional  clubs  across 
the  country  continue  to  provide  yet  another 
vehicle  through  which  WPI  alumni  can 
stay  in  contact  with  the  college  and  their 
fellow  graduates. 

•  Since  joining  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity-based Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium, a  seven-college  cooperative  publish- 
ing venture,  in  1982,  the  WPI  Journal  has 
undergone  continuing  improvements  in 
format,  content  and  quality. 

•  Regularly  published  alumni  newsletters 
from  nine  academic  departments  are  an 
important  addition  to  communication 
between  WPI  and  its  graduates.  So  is  WPI 
In  Print,  which  highlights  the  extensive 


and  growing  media  coverage  of  the  WPI 
community. 

•  The  WPI  Athletic  Hall  of  Fame 
inducted  its  charter  members  in  1983. 
Today,  14  of  WPI's  finest  all-time  ath- 
letes, coaches  and  friends  of  sport  are 
members  of  the  Hall. 

•  WPI  "Weekenders,"  newest  of  alumni 
programs,  are  bringing  together  scores  of 
alumni  for  fun,  relaxation,  fellowship — 
and  a  little  education— at  some  of  the 
East's  most  attractive  meeting  and  resort 
locations. 

What  trends  emerge  from  all  these  indi- 
vidual initiatives?  Just  this:  WPI  graduates 
of  all  ages  are  proud  of  both  the  tradition 
and  the  innovative  education  programs  of 
WPI.  Alumni  participation— both  finan- 
cially and  through  voluntary  action- 
attests  to  our  commitment  to  the  continu- 
ing good  fortunes  of  the  college.  People 
make  these  programs  work  for  people.  In 
all,  more  than  2,000  alumni  are  giving  of 
their  time  to  help  achieve  these  results. 

For  me,  playing  even  a  small  part  in  all 
this  has  been  a  wonderful  experience.  As 
we  look  to  the  next  two  years  and  beyond, 
I  know  you  will  give  my  successor  as  pres- 
ident, Paul  Bayliss  '60,  the  same  active 
support  you  have  shown  me. 

Finally,  I  know  you  join  me  in  thanking 
the  men  and  women  of  the  University 
Relations  Department  of  WPI,  under  the 
leadership  of  Donald  F  Berth  '57,  Vice 
President. 

It  is  this  group  who  provide  the  adminis- 
trative support  without  which  it  would  be 
impossible  for  the  Alumni  Association  to 
achieve  the  phenomenal  growth  we  enjoy 
today. 

p/oJuJ  UJ'  \jam4 


WPI  Journal 

WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC^INSTITUTE 


VOLUME  88,  NUMBER  4 


Staff  of  The  WPIJOURNAL 

Editor,  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell 

Alumni  Information  Editor.  Ruth  S.  Trask 

Sports  Editor,  Gene  Blaum 

Alumni  Publications  Committee:  William  J. 
Firla,  Jr.  '60,  chairman;  Judy  Nitsch  '75,  vice 
chairman;  Paul  J.  Cleary  '71;  Carl  A.  Keyser 
'39;  Robert  C.  LaBonte  '54;  Samuel  Mencow 
'37;  Stanley  P.  Negus.  Jr.  '54;  Maureen  Sexton 
'83. 

The  WPI  Journal  (ISSN  0148-6128)  is  pub- 
lished quarterly  for  the  WPI  Alumni  Associa- 
tion by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute  in  coop- 
eration with  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium, 
with  editorial  offices  at  the  Johns  Hopkins  Uni- 
versity, Baltimore,  MD  21218.  Pages  I-XVI  are 
published  for  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consor- 
tium (Franklin  and  Marshall  College.  Hartwick 
College,  Johns  Hopkins  University,  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Villanova  University, 
Western  Maryland  College,  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute)  and  appear  in  the  respective 
alumni  magazines  of  those  institutions.  Second 
class  postage  paid  at  Worcester,  MA,  and  addi- 
tional mailing  offices.  Pages  1-20,  37-56  e 
1985,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Pages  I- 
XVI  ®  1985,  Johns  Hopkins  University. 

Staff  of  the  Alumni  Magazine  Consortium: 

Editor,  Mary  Ruth  Yoe;  Design  and  Production 
Coordinator,  Amy  Doudiken;  Designer,  Allen 
Carroll;  Editorial  Assistant,  Claire  E.  Brown, 
Time  Inc.  Fellow,  Joe  Levine. 

Advisory  Board  of  the  Alumni  Magazine 
Consortium:  Franklin  and  Marshall  College, 
Richard  Kneedler;  Hartwick  College,  Merrilee 
Gomillion;  Johns  Hopkins  University,  B.J. 
Norris  and  Elise  Hancock;  Rensselaer  Poly- 
technic Institute.  Lynn  Holley  and  Robert  M. 
Whitaker;  Villanova  University,  Eugene  J. 
Ruane  and  Joan  DelCollo;  Western  Maryland 
College,  Joyce  Muller  and  Pat  Donohoe;  Wor- 
cester Polytechnic  Institute.  Donald  F.  Berth 
and  Kenneth  L.  McDonnell. 


Acknowledgments: 

Typesetting.  BG  Composition,  Inc.; 
American  Press,  Inc. 


Printing. 


Diverse  views  on  subjects  of  public  interest  are 
presented  in  the  magazine.  These  views  do  not 
necessarily  reflect  the  opinions  of  the  editors  or 
official  policies  of  WPI.  Address  correspon- 
dence to  the  Editor.  The  WPI  Journal,  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  MA 
01609.  Telephone  (617)  793-5609.  Postmaster: 
If  undeliverable  please  send  form  3579  to  the 
address  above.  Do  not  return  publication. 


CONTENTS 


MAY  1985 


6  Living  in  the  Materials  World 

On  the  second  floor  of  Washburn, 
failure's  got  a  lot  going  for  it. 
Michael  Shanley 

12  Project  Update 

From  the  halls  of  UMass  Medical  to  the  shores 
of  Louisiana— a  look  at  five  student  projects. 
Daniel  Laprade  '85 

16  Holding  the  Reins  at  Xerox 

Guiding  the  copier  king  is  Paul  Allaire  '60. 
Ruth  Trask 

17  Tooling  Up  for  the  Computer 
Generation 

Bringing  computers  fully  on  line  at  WPI  is  a 
textbook  example  of  systems  engineering. 
Evelyn  Herwitz 

I  Big  Machine  on  Campus 

The  microcomputer's  macro  effect. 
Judith  Axler  Turner 

V  Liberty  Redux 

Renewing  the  Statue  of  Liberty. 
Marshall  Ledger 

37  Looking  Ahead  by  Looking  Back 

A  talk  by  WPI's  Dean  of  Graduate  Studies. 
WilmerL.  Kranich 

41  A  Headstart  on  Alumniship 

Kirsten  Storm  '85 

Departments 

News  from  the  Hill        2 
Class  Notes       43 
Feedback        56 
Books        Inside  back  cover 


^ 

^»- 


<• 


Page  6 


Page  12 


PageV 


Page  37 


Cover:  In  all  its  glory,  springtime  bursts  forth  at  WPI.  Photography  by 
Michael  Carroll. 


MAY  1985        1 


NEWS  FROM  THE  HILL 


Grading  System 
Overhauled 

Over  the  years,  WPI's  grading  system  has 
gone  through  several  changes.  Many 
alumni  will  remember  the  days  when 
grades  ranged  from  0  to  100.  Below  45 
meant  a  failing  grade— F— and  45-60  rated 
a  "condition"  (E),  which  could  be  raised 
to  a  60  through  a  three-hour  "condition 
make-up  exam."  The  90+  range  was  an 
A,  80s  were  Bs,  70s  were  Cs  and  60s  were 
Ds.  Since  no  one,  it  was  felt,  was  perfect, 
and  100  indicated  perfection,  grades  of 
100  were  not  given.  A  60  was  a  gift  pass, 
but  61  an  earned  D.  What's  more,  grades 
between  55  and  60  were  not  given,  and  a 
79  usually  signaled  an  earned  80  but  reser- 
vation by  the  professor  that  the  student 
hadn't  really  performed  at  an  80  level.  So 
much  for  that  labyrinth. 

Later,  the  numbers  were  dropped  and 
the  letters  were  retained  in  conventional  A 
through  F  manner,  with  E  still  a  "condi- 
tion." Then  the  E  was  dropped  along  with 
its  condition  exam. 

Still  later,  with  institution  of  the  WPI 
Plan,  the  letters  were  dropped,  and  only 
two  passing  grades  retained:  AC  (accept- 
able) and  AD  (acceptable  with  distinc- 
tion). This  system  contained  no  record  of  a 
failing  grade,  with  the  rare  exception  of  an 
NAC  (not  acceptable),  an  indication  of 
earned  wretchedness  in  project  work. 

According  to  Dean  of  Undergraduate 
Studies  William  R.  Grogan  '46,  the  AC/ 
AD  system  was  an  attempt  to  reduce 
"grade  grubbing."  "WPI's  project  system, 
with  its  prevalent  component  of  student 
teamwork,  requires  cooperation  and 
mutual  support— elements  that  may  be 
undermined  by  a  conventional  grading 
system,"  Grogan  says. 

The  two-level  passing  system  has 
worked  reasonably  well  on  campus,  he 
contends,  but  is  has  been  difficult  at  times 
to  "translate"  effectively  to  external 
groups  such  as  parents,  who  may  view  it 
as  a  pass-fail  system.  Prospective  employ- 
ers, too,  may  find  it  hard  to  evaluate  can- 


The  Masked  Marvel  revealed.  Roland 
Marquis  is  crowned  New  England  champ 
at  126  lbs.  for  the  second  straight  year. 

didates  at  WPI  without  the  presence  of  the 
B  grade  range. 

Furthermore,  with  about  60  percent  of 
all  grades  in  one  category— AC— many 
have  felt  that  the  system  was  not  proving 
sufficiently  discriminating.  But  at  the 
same  time,  Grogan  notes,  the  faculty  has 
wanted  to  avoid  a  system  that  generates 
conventional  quality-point  averages 
(QPAs),  because  of  the  resulting  tendency 
to  overlook  students  as  individuals,  and 
the  temptation  to  reinstitute  class  rank  into 
the  WPI  experience. 

Still,  on  March  7,  1985,  and  only  after 
many  months  of  debate  among  faculty, 
students  and  administrators  alike,  the  fac- 
ulty voted  to  change  the  grading  system  to 
A,  B,  C,  NR  (no  record),  without  genera- 
tion of  official  QPAs  or  class  rank.  Honors 
determination  has  been  modified  to 
include  optional  recognition  of  classroom 
work  in  addition  to  qualifying  project  and 
Competency  Examination  grades. 

Students  currently  enrolled,  Grogan 
points  out,  and  those  entering  in  1985  will 
have  a  one-time  opportunity  to  matriculate 
under  the  new  system.  The  revised 
arrangement  will  apply  to  all  students 
enrolling  after  May  1986. 


Winter  Sports  Wrapup: 
WOW! 

WPI  enjoyed  one  of  its  best  athletic  sea- 
sons in  history  this  past  winter.  The  six 
Engineer  varsity  units  achieved  a  smash- 
ing 71-30  (.701)  cumulative  record.  Two 
of  them,  the  wrestling  and  men's  basket- 
ball teams,  reached  record  single-season 
victories. 

Head  coach  Ken  Kaufman's  cagers  con- 
cluded the  greatest  basketball  season  in  the 
school's  67  years  of  intercollegiate  play 
with  a  20-8  record,  the  first  20-win  season 
in  WPI  history. 

Among  the  wins  were  NCAA  Tourna- 
ment triumphs  over  Albany  State  (58-57, 
OT)  and  Clark  (67-62)  in  Harrington 
Auditorium,  allowing  WPI  to  capture  its 
first  Northeast  Regional  title.  Making  its 
second  NCAA  Tournament  appearance  in 
the  last  four  years,  WPI  had  its  drive  to  the 
Final  Four  dashed  by  Widener  University 
in  the  quarterfinal  round  as  the  taller  Pio- 
neers (Widener's  smallest  starter  was 
6'4")  departed  Harrington  Auditorium 
with  a  hard-earned  41-38  victory. 

During  the  course  of  the  record-break- 
ing season,  many  individuals  were  respon- 
sible for  WPI's  success,  but  none  more 
than  senior  All-America  guard  Orville 
Bailey  ('85,  Springfield,  MA).  Bailey  led 
the  Engineers  in  scoring,  assists  and 
steals,  and  he  finished  as  WPI's  all-time 
single-season  and  leading  scorer. 

Along  with  Bailey,  outstanding  perfor- 
mances were  turned  in  by  guard  Gregg 
Fiddes  ('85,  Webster,  MA),  center  John 
Loonie  ('87,  Brockton,  MA),  and  forward 
Paul  Lubas  ('87,  Woodbridge,  MA). 
Fiddes  ended  his  career  as  WPI's  third  all- 
time  scorer. 

Meanwhile,  head  coach  Phil  Grebinar's 
wrestling  club  posted  a  sparkling  20-1  rec- 
ord and  finished  the  dual  meet  season  as 
the  top-ranked  team  in  New  England  Divi- 
sion III.  The  Engineers  proudly  carried 
their  No.  1  ranking  into  tournament  com- 
petition and  walked  away  from  Wesleyan 
University— site  of  the  New  England  Col- 


2        WPI  JOURNAL 


lege  Conference  Wrestling  Association 
Tournament — with  the  tourney  title.  In  the 
process,  WPI  established  a  Tournament 
record  for  most  points  scored  with  165.75. 

Seven  Engineers  reached  the  final 
round,  and  four  were  crowned  New 
England  Champions.  Seniors  Roland  Mar- 
quis (Nashua,  NH)  won  the  126-pound 
weight  class  for  the  second  straight  year, 
while  Jeff  Horowitz  (Commack,  NY)  won 
at  142,  Joe  Crispo  (Reading,  MA)  at  150, 
and  Paul  Wyman  (Bridgewater,  MA)  at 
158,  each  for  the  first  time. 

The  four  thus  earned  a  trip  to  the  NCAA 
Division  III  National  Championships, 
where  Wyman  and  Crispo  distinguished 
themselves  with  a  sixth-  and  seventh-place 
finish,  respectively.  Each  earned  All- 
America  accolades. 

While  the  basketball  and  wrestling 
teams  enjoyed  post-season  success,  the 
women's  basketball  team  posted  its  fifth 
straight  winning  season  with  a  13-9  rec- 
ord. A  late  season  slump,  however,  kept 
WPI  from  either  NCAA  or  ECAC  tourna- 
ment action.  Junior  guard  Kim  Fay  ('86, 
Nashua,  NH)  and  Cindy  Perkins  '87, 
Fay's  hometown  teammate,  sparked  the 
Engineers'  offensive  attack  throughout  the 
season. 

This  year's  men's  swimming  squad,  as 
well,  can  rightfully  claim  a  spot  amongst 
WPI's  winningest  teams  with  a  9-4  tally, 
its  best  showing  in  five  years.  Head  coach 
Whit  Griffith's  club  was  led,  from  the  first 
meet  to  the  last,  by  super-senior  Bruce 
Carbone  (Leominster,  MA),  the  most  pro- 
lific swimmer  in  WPI  history.  He  qualified 
for  the  NCAA  Division  III  Championships 
in  the  200  and  400  individual  medleys. 

While  Griffith's  men  attained  new 
heights  this  year,  his  women  swimmers 
made  a  respectable  showing  in  their  open- 
ing campaign  as  a  separate  team,  ending 
with  a  3-5  record.  Cathy  Dochak  ('85, 
Albany,  NY)  spearheaded  the  effort,  set- 
ting four  individual  records  during  the  sea- 
son. A  young  team,  its  talent  promises 
continued  growth. 

Winning  seasons  are  nothing  new  to 
track  coach  Merl  Norcross.  The  32-year 
mentor  led  his  indoor  team  to  a  6-3  rec- 
ord, including  a  second-place  finish  in  the 
four-team  Worcester  City  Meet. 

Among  the  performers  whose  indoor 
efforts  provided  optimism  for  the  spring 
season  were  hurdler  Steve  Montibello 
('87,  Haverhill,  MA),  shot  putter  Mike 
Skowron  ('87,  Pittsfield,  MA),  high 
jumper  Tom  Schibly  ('88,  Green  Bay, 
WI),  distance  man  Brian  Laprise  ('87, 
Weymouth,  MA),  half-miler  Dan  Laprade 
('85,  Holyoke,  MA)  and  hurdler  Greg 


Westgate  ('86,  Wareham,  MA). 

Highlighting  the  entire  winter  sports 
season  was  the  February  2  Alumni  Basket- 
ball Game,  pitting  the  maroon  shirts,  with 
the  likes  of  John  Titus  '80,  Mike  Stephens 
'57,  and  Chris  Trainor  '83,  against  the 
power  of  the  white  shirts,  with  all-time 
greats  like  Earl  Bloom  '54,  Ken  Johnson 
'73  and  Jim  Petropolos  '83.  In  a  matchup 
that  went  down  to  the  final  buzzer,  the 
maroon  shirts  came  out  on  top  by  a  hair. 

Gene  Blaum 
Sports  Information  Director 


WPI  Weekenders  Are 
Off  to  a  Bright  Start 

"The  combination  of  pleasant  surround- 
ings, good  company  and  serious,  intellec- 
tual lectures  is  hard  to  beat!"  These  are  C. 
Marshall  Dann's  ('35)  impressions  of  the 
inaugural  WPI  "Weekender"  program. 
He's  not  alone  in  his  approval.  Fellow 
attendee  Earl  Fairbanks,  '51  found  that  the 
Weekender  "...  lived  up  to  all  my  expec- 
tations!" 

In  all,  50  alumni,  spouses  and  friends 
attended  the  March  8-10  affair,  held  at  the 
Woods  Hole  Marine  Biological  Laborato- 
ries in  Woods  Hole,  MA. 

WPI  Weekenders  bring  together  alumni 
and  their  spouses  from  all  walks  of  life  for 
two  relaxing  days  at  attractive  locations 
throughout  the  Northeast.  The  weekend  is 
far  more  than  fun  and  games,  though 
there's  time  in  the  busy  schedule  for  some 
of  that,  too.  Here's  a  sampling: 

For  starters,  this  year's  March  weather 
at  Woods  Hole  was  six  weeks  ahead  of 
itself.  A  Friday  evening  reception,  fol- 
lowed by  an  authentic  Cape  Cod  haddock 
dinner  with  all  the  fixings,  set  the  tone  for 
the  entire  weekend.  Later  in  the  evening. 
Management  Professor  Arthur  Gerstenfeld 
brought  the  group  up  to  date  on  recent 
developments  on  the  Hill,  including  activi- 
ties at  the  Washington,  DC,  Project  Cen- 
ter. 

Saturday  morning  breakfast  preceded 
the  "serious"  element  of  the  weekend, 
where  Dr.  Ronald  Baird.  along  with 
researchers  from  the  Woods  Hole  Oceano- 
graphic  Institute,  spoke  on  oceanic  ecosys- 
tems, deep-sea  fishes,  the  George's  Bank 
fishing  rights  controversy  and  ocean  floor 
geology  and  chemistry.  Dr.  Baird  is  a 
marine  biologist  and  WPI  Director  of  Cor- 
porate Relations. 

That  afternoon,  the  group  took  a  break 
from  their  more  intellectual  pursuits  for  a 
leisurely  tour  of  the  Marine  Biological 


Labs  and  Oceanographic  Institute.  Some 
rode  the  Martha's  Vineyard  ferry  and  sam- 
pled the  sights  and  history  of  Edgartown 
before  returning  to  the  mainland  for  the 
evening  program. 

After  dinner,  Humanities  Professor 
Malcolm  Parkinson,  a  historian  of  Euro- 
pean science  and  technology,  made  a  stim- 
ulating presentation  on  medieval  armor  at 
Worcester's  Higgins  Armory  Museum.  It 
was  a  relaxing  climax  to  a  busy  day. 

To  conclude  the  evening,  the  piano  art- 
istry of  Ed  Supple  '47  provided  the  nudge 
for  getting  everyone  to  sing  along  to  the 
popular  hits  of  the  last  half  century.  Who 
says  engineers  can't  carry  a  tune? 

Before  departing  for  home  on  Sunday, 
the  Weekenders,  by  now  a  close-knit 
group,  viewed  "Washburn:  The  Tradition 
Restored,"  a  multimedia  show  depicting 
the  proud  history  and  the  promising  future 
of  the  Washburn  Shops,  which  was 
expanded  and  completely  renovated  in 
1984. 

Next  stop  for  the  Weekenders  program 
is  Historic  Inns  of  Annapolis,  MD,  on 
May  10-12,  1985.  "Technology  and  Med- 
icine" will  be  the  theme.  Faculty  experts 
from  WPI,  the  Johns  Hopkins  University 
and  the  University  of  Massachusetts  will 
cover  a  full  range  of  topics  on  how  tech- 
nology is  changing  the  practice  of  medi- 
cine. It's  a  field  that  affects  us  all. 

And  wait  until  you  see  Annapolis  in 
May! 


Athletic  Fields  Renovation 
Takes  Shape 

After  70  years  of  increasingly  intensive 
use,  WPI's  athletic  fields  along  Park  Ave- 
nue will  soon  receive  a  major  facelifting. 

At  the  heart  of  the  $1.9  million  project 
will  be  the  installation  of  all-weather  syn- 
thetic surfaces  on  the  present  football  field 
and  the  running  track.  The  plan  also  calls 
for  a  reorientation  of  the  baseball  field, 
improved  lighting  for  night  practice  and 
games,  improved  press  box  facilities, 
additional  spectator  seating,  a  new  softball 
field  and  construction  of  two  tennis  courts. 

"This  is  a  badly  needed  but  twice 
deferred  project,"  Dr.  Edmund  T.  C ranch 
said,  in  announcing  the  action  of  the  Trust- 
ees. 

"When  Alumni  Field  was  built  in  1915. 
WPI  had  about  500  students,  all  of  them 
men.  These  facilities  have  served  us  well 
for  70  years,  but  now  we  have  2.500  stu- 
dents, 20  percent  of  them  women.  Our 
fields   are  just   not   adequate    for   the 


MAY  1985       3 


demands  now  placed  on  them  by  active— 
and  successful— varsity,  intramural  and 
recreational  athletics  for  men  and 
women." 

With  installation  of  the  synthetic  sur- 
face, WPI  will  use  the  same  space  for 
football,  soccer,  lacrosse  and  field  hockey 
play.  The  surface  will  permit  practice  on 
the  same  field,  and,  with  the  use  of  the 
new  lighting,  practice  times  can  be  sched- 
uled to  permit  same-season  sports  to  share 
the  facilities. 

Using  the  new  surface,  1,500  partici- 
pants in  13  varsity,  club  and  intramural 
sports  can  be  accommodated  compared 
with  the  present  400  participants  in  five 
sports. 

The  new  surface  will  also  extend  sea- 
sonal usage  of  the  field.  Inclement 
weather,  poor  drainage  and  soggy  field 
conditions  will  no  longer  delay  the  start  of 
Spring  practice  or  force  cancellation  or 
relocation  of  field  events.  The  present 
clay-cinder  track  has  been  plagued  with 
drainage  problems  for  years,  and  a  syn- 
thetic surface  and  improved  drainage  will 
eliminate  this  problem. 

According  to  Dr.  Cranch,  the  need  for 
renovation  of  athletic  fields  was  recog- 
nized and  preliminary  plans  made  several 
years  ago.  This  project  was  included  in  an 
earlier  capital  fund  campaign  conducted  to 
renovate  older  campus  facilities,  but  was 
twice  deferred  due  to  inflation  and  higher 
priority  capital  needs,  such  as  a  new  resi- 
dence center,  which  is  now  under  con- 
struction. 

Added  Dr.  Cranch,  "To  continue  to 
attract  well  qualified  students  to  WPI,  it's 
vital  that  we  offer  not  only  top-flight  facili- 
ties and  programs,  but  that  we  offer  them  a 
total  environment  of  quality.  That  environ- 
ment certainly  includes  recreational 
resources." 

As  an  indication  of  alumni  support,  the 
Class  of  1934  last  June  committed  its  50th 
Reunion  class  gift  to  these  new  athletic 


facilities  in  anticipation  of  the  ultimate 
approval  of  the  project  by  the  Board. 

Director  of  Athletics  and  Physical  Edu- 
cation James  P.  Culpepper,  Jr.  had  this  to 
say  of  the  plan:  "The  improvements  will 
make  WPI  a  fine  location  for  regional  and 
even  national  track  and  field  events.  We'll 
be  one  of  the  few  NCAA  Division  HI 
schools  with  an  8-lane,  all-weather  track." 

The  renovation  project  will  also  include 
considerable  regrading  and  the  removal  of 
an  earthen  berm  between  the  present  base- 
ball and  soccer  fields  to  provide  one  con- 
tinuous field  surface.  This  area  will  be 
groomed  and  reseeded  into  a  sound,  grass 
surface  facility.  The  baseball  field  will  be 
rotated  90  degrees  to  the  left  to  provide  a 
level  outfield  with  reasonable  dimensions 
to  both  right  and  left  field. 

As  part  of  the  project,  two  additional 
tennis  courts  will  be  built  near  the  four 
courts  now  located  on  A.  J.  Knight  Field 
across  Park  Avenue.  These  will  replace 

Renovation  of  the  athletic  fields  will  com- 
mence in  May.  To  most,  the  need  is  obvious. 


^R&a^^&gs 


tennis  courts  which  were  formerly  located 
on  the  site  of  the  residence  center  now 
under  construction.  The  new  tennis  court 
complex  will  provide  tournament-level 
facilities. 

Work  is  planned  to  begin  immediately 
after  conclusion  of  the  spring  athletic 
schedule  in  May,  for  completion  in  late 
summer. 


1985-86  Tuition 
Announced 

WPI  tuition  will  be  $8,900  for  the  1985- 
86  academic  year.  The  announcement  of 
the  $900  increase  over  current  tuition  was 
made  February  26,  following  a  meeting  of 
the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees.  The  total  esti- 
mated cost  for  a  typical  resident  student, 
including  tuition,  room  and  board,  and 
fees,  will  be  approximately  $12,400. 

In  his  letter  to  parents  announcing  the 
increase,  Dr.  Edmund  T.  Cranch  noted 
that  a  top  quality  program  in  undergradu- 
ate engineering  and  science  remains  one  of 
the  most  expensive  academic  programs 
taught  today  on  any  campus. 

"Modifying  physical  plants  to  accom- 
modate new  technologies  as  well  as  pro- 
viding increased  student  access  to  com- 
puters is  becoming  increasingly  more 
expensive,"  wrote  Dr.  Cranch. 

"While  an  engineering  education  is 
among  the  most  costly  to  provide,"  he 
added,  "it  is  also  true  that,  for  the  graduat- 
ing senior,  a  degree  in  engineering  or  sci- 
ence is  one  of  the  most  attractive  in  terms 
of  career  opportunities  and  starting  salary. 

"WPI  is  one  of  16  independent  colleges 
of  engineering  and  science  in  the  country 
which  share  many  of  the  same  academic 
characteristics  and  laboratory  needs,"  he 
said.  "As  we  view  those  institutions'  stu- 
dent costs  for  the  coming  year,  we  find 
that  WPI  appears  at  just  about  the  middle 
of  the  range." 

Today,  80  percent  of  WPI  students  are 
receiving  financial  aid  in  some  form.  WPI 
will  continue  to  do  everything  possible, 
Dr.  Cranch  wrote,  to  see  that  all  students 
enjoy  the  opportunity  to  complete  their 
academic  programs  in  spite  of  increasing 
costs. 


WPInteractions  Expanding 

Conferences,  scholarly  symposia,  profes- 
sional meetings— these  are  the  kinds  of 
events  that  help  build  strong  alliances  for 
WPI  with  industry  and  other  colleges  and 


4       WPI  JOURNAL 


A  JAZZY  MOTIF:  Jazz  guitarists  Ralph  Towner  (left)  and  John  Abercrombie  were  just 
two  of  the  musicians  to  join  forces  at  WPIfor  the  first  Jazz  Worcester  festival,  February 
4-10,  1985.  Among  other  performers  with  national  reputations  to  appear  at  WPI  and  in 
other  locations  across  Worcester  were  virtuoso  vibraphonist  Gary  Burton,  trombonist 
Phil  Wilson  and  woodwindist  Jimmy  Giuffre.  What  started  as  a  jazz  clinic  at  WPI,  under 
the  direction  of  Richard  G.  Falco,  a  visiting  instructor  in  music,  turned  into  a  major 
cultural  event  for  the  city.  Falco  marshaled  a  wide  variety  of  community  resources  for 
the  festival,  starting  with  WPI  and  the  Worcester  Cultural  Commission,  both  of  which 
provided  seed  money  for  the  event.  Works  by  Professor  of  Music  David  P.  McKay  and 
the  WPI  Jazz  Band  shared  the  week-long  spotlight  with  more  than  a  score  of  other 
national  and  local  performers. 


universities.  They  also  expose  outside 
experts  to  WPI  faculty  and  student 
research  and  educational  programs,  a  must 
in  the  arena  of  science  and  technology. 

Each  year,  dozens  of  such  events  large 
and  small  bring  hundreds  of  people  to 
campus.  Recently,  two  symposia,  on 
widely  diverse  subjects  served  to  highlight 
the  mid-winter  season.  Here  are  accounts 
of  these  meetings. 

NURTURING  ENGINEERING  INNO- 
VATION: More  than  a  symposium,  it  was 
a  call  to  action.  Industrial  companies,  if 
they  are  to  thrive — or  even  survive — must 
learn  to  embrace  innovation. 

At  a  half-day  conference  co-sponsored 
by  WPI's  Manufacturing  Engineering 
Applications  Center  (MEAC),  some  90 
students,  faculty,  researchers,  managers 
and  executives  heard  a  panel  of  experts 
consider  engineering  innovation  from 
every  angle. 

Charles  A.  McKay  of  The  Foxboro 
Company  noted  the  need  to  educate  rather 
than  simply  train  engineers.  He  used  the 
WPI  Plan  as  an  example  of  innovative 
education.  Arguing  against  two  common 
misconceptions,  he  said  that  businesses 


can  schedule  innovation,  and  standards 
don 't  necessarily  stifle  innovation.  NASA, 
he  said,  was  an  example  of  the  first,  and 
the  IBM  personal  computer  an  example  of 
the  second. 

MEAC  Director  David  P.  Asmus 
offered  a  completely  automated  West  Ger- 
man automobile  plant  as  a  model  of  the 
new  industry-university-government  part- 
nerships which  will  be  so  vital  in  the  com- 
ing years. 

Francis  C.  Kelcourse,  Director  of  Digi- 
tal Facilities  and  Services  Lab  at  the  new 
AT&T  Bell  Laboratories  in  Haverhill, 
MA,  stressed  the  need  for  an  environment 
that  fosters  innovative  research.  He 
touched  on  everything  from  office  layout 
to  telecommunications  to  the  need  for 
quiet  and  privacy. 

"Lead  engineers,"  he  said,  "must  have 
the  ability  to  think  beyond  the  task  at 
hand.  Leadership  ought  to  exist  at  the 
team  level,  not  just  at  the  top." 

Bernard  N.  Slade  of  Arthur  D.  Little, 
Inc.,  reminded  the  group  of  the  need  for 
innovation  in  manufacturing  as  well  as  in 
research.  "Manufacturability  is  the  key," 
he  said.  "Designs  are  worth  little  if  they 
can't  be  profitably  put  into  production." 


Some  people  are  more  receptive  to  inno- 
vation than  others,  noted  psychologist  Leo 
F.  McManus,  president  of  L.F.  McManus 
Company,  Inc.,  a  national  firm  that  spe- 
cializes in  behavioral  science  programs  for 
management  development.  Management 
must  learn  to  recognize  varying  personal- 
ity styles:  some  workers  need  freedom  and 
challenge,  others  need  guidelines.  In  all 
cases,  innovation  results  from  an  emphasis 
on  people  rather  than  on  things  such  as 
growth,  earnings  or  technical  capability. 

Norton  Company  representatives 
included  moderator  Dr.  George  S.  Rei- 
chenback.  Vice  President  for  Bonded 
Abrasives,  and  Dr.  Terry  L.  Loucks,  Vice 
President  for  Corporate  Technology.  "It's 
Norton's  enthusiasm  for  learning  that  will 
take  it  on  another  100-year  cycle,"  sug- 
gested Dr.  Loucks. 

TECHNOLOGY  AND  THE  WRITER: 

The  engineer  as  hero  was  considered  at  the 
second  of  this  year's  three  special  humani- 
ties lectures  at  WPI. 

Cecilia  Tichi,  Professor  of  English  at 
Boston  University,  traced  the  impact  of 
engineers  on  modern  American  fiction. 
Popular  potboilers  of  the  early  20th  cen- 
tury, which  depicted  engineers  as  romantic 
figures— heros  who  brought  modern  civili- 
zation to  the  inhabitants  of  jungles  and 
barren  deserts— may  not  have  endured  as 
important  works  of  fiction,  she  said,  but 
they  did  influence  such  later  writers  as 
Willa  Cather,  John  Dos  Passos  and,  espe- 
cially, William  Carlos  Williams. 

It  was  the  engineer's  value  of  efficiency, 
Tichi  said,  that  influenced  Williams  to 
ultimately  see  a  poem  as  "a  machine  made 
of  words." 

MORE:  In  addition,  as  the  Journal  went 
to  press,  the  following  conferences  were 
about  to  convene:  the  Eleventh  North- 
east Bioengineering  Conference;  March 
14-15,  1985;  and  the  New  England  Bio- 
technology Association  Colloquium  II; 
March  21-27,  1985. 

Correction 

In  the  February  1985  issue  of  the  Journal, 
we  failed  to  recognize  the  $110,000 
Reunion  gift  of  the  Class  of  1933,  which 
was  applied  to  the  renovation  of  the 
Washburn  Shops.  This  generosity  helped 
make  possible  construction  of  a  class/sem- 
inar room  in  the  "new"  Washburn.  WPI 
thanks  the  Class  of  1933  for  this  outstand- 
ing gift.  The  Journal  regrets  the  editorial 
omission. 


MAY  1985       5 


Living  in 

the  Materials 

World 


Materials  engineers — including  those  at  WPI — 
live  with  failure  every  day  of  their  lives. 


By  Michael  Shanley 


Materials  engineers  are  fascinated 
with  why  things  crack,  splinter, 
corrode,  explode  or  just  plain 
wear  out. 

They  also  wonder  about  things  like  how 
many  shaves  are  in  a  razor,  how  acid  rain 
destroys  a  statue,  or  how  diesel  engines 
could  be  made  more  efficient. 

The  handiwork  of  materials  science  and 
engineering— the  study  of  everything  from 
plastics  to  steel  to  high  performance 
ceramics— is  everywhere. 

"The  ball  point  pen  you're  writing 
with—"  says  WPI  Materials  Division 
Head  Ronald  R.  Biederman  to  a  visitor,  "a 
lot  of  science  has  gone  into  that  from  tip  to 
stem.  Why  is  the  barrel  made  out  of  plastic 
instead  of  metal?  And  why  is  the  tip  made 
out  of  metal  and  not  plastic?" 

Biederman  beams.  He  loves  talking 
about  materials.  His  office  is  located 
where  the  action  is— in  the  middle  of  the 
materials  lab  area  on  the  second  floor  of 
the  new  Washburn  Shops"  north  wing. 
Since  his  door  is  seldom  closed,  there's  a 
constant  procession  of  students  and  col- 
leagues stopping  in  to  ask  a  question  or 
proclaim  an  accomplishment.  Bieder- 
man—amazingly— seems  to  know  exactly 
what  each  is  working  on. 

While  his  own  primary  research  is  in 


metallurgy  and  microstructural  analysis, 
his  interests  extend  to  virtually  all  areas  of 
materials  science. 

"Our  main  objective."  he  explains,  "is 
to  understand  structure,  and  then  relate 
structure  to  properties.  In  other  words,  if  I 
know  how  something  is  put  together.  I'll 
know  how  it  behaves.  And  vice  versa. 
That's  the  premise  of  everything  we  do." 

Getting  back  to  the  pen,  he  explains. 
"The  stem  is  plastic  because  plastic  is 
inexpensive  and  light.  But  plastic  won't 
work  as  well  for  the  tip  because  there's  a 
tremendous  amount  of  pressure  exerted  on 
a  very  small  point.  Materials  engineers 
have  studied  it  from  every  angle." 

Today's  materials  engineering  is  firmly 
rooted  in  the  intense  competitive  drive  to 
make  things  stronger,  lighter,  faster, 
cheaper— to  build  a  better  mousetrap. 
(And.  preferably,  build  it  before  anyone 
else  does.) 

In  the  end,  the  questions  that  need 
answering  usually  involve  failure.  How 
much  wear  and  tear  will  a  particular  mate- 
rial withstand?  Where  will  it  break?  How 
long  until  it  wears  out? 

"We're  interested  in  the  upper  limits  of 
failure."  says  Biederman.  "and  how  cru- 
cial that  failure  is.  If  the  tip  of  your  pen 
breaks,  that's  one  thing.  But  if  the  wheel 


falls  off  your  automobile  while  you're 
driving  down  the  highway,  that's  quite 
another. 

"The  nice  thing  about  metal."  he  adds 
with  something  like  affection,  "is  thai  it 
usually  bends  before  it  breaks.  It  warns 
you." 

Like  other  branches  of  science  and 
engineering,  the  study  of  materials 
has  evolved  with  the  times,  re- 
sponding to  the  demands  of  society.  For 
centuries,  people  have  been  scorching  and 
freezing  things,  examining  breaks,  study- 
ing wear  and  tear — even  trying  to  turn 
metal  into  gold. 


6       WPI  JOURNAL 


It's  just  that  now  we  have  electron 
microscopes  that  can  magnify  an  object  to 
two  million  times  its  normal  size;  sophisti- 
cated testing  machines  that  can  precisely 
heat,  bend  or  crack  a  specimen;  and  com- 
puters that  can  make  split-second  calcula- 
tions. Where  once  there  were  wood,  metal 
and  stone,  there  are  now  superalloys.  high 
performance  ceramics  and  exotic  poly- 
mers. 

In  addition  to  all  the  high-tech  wonders, 
however,  materials  engineering  bears  the 
stamp  of  another  uniquely  20th-century 
phenomenon:  the  lawsuit. 

"We've  become  a  very  litigious  soci- 
ety."  notes  Biederman.   "And  engineers 


have  to  be  sensitive  to  that.  No  longer  can 
you  plead  ignorance  when  something  goes 
wrong.  You've  got  to  be  up  on  the  latest 
technology.  You've  got  to  be  sharp." 

Nobody  knows  that  better  than  Profes- 
sor Roy  F.  Bourgault  '42.  who  retires  this 
year  after  30  years  of  teaching  at  WPI.  As 
a  sideline,  he  has  for  many  years  served  as 
a  technical  expert  on  failure  analysis. 
Manufacturers,  insurance  companies  and 
lawyers  ask  him  to  examine  cars,  trucks, 
hammers,  ladders,  drills,  cranes,  chains. 
He  testifies  for  either  plaintiffs  or  defen- 
dants—it doesn't  matter.  Nor  does  he 
claim  to  always  arrive  at  that  elusive  entity 
called  "truth." 


These  electron  microscopes— one  a  trans- 
mission, the  other  a  scanning  type — 
receive  hea\y  use  by  graduate  and  under- 
graduate students. 

"I  just  present  my  findings."  he  says. 
"A  lot  of  the  time  I  never  even  find  out 
what  the  verdict  was."  And  a  lot  of  the 
time  what's  "right"  is  not  so  easy  to  deter- 
mine, as  in  the  case  of  a  hammer  that  chips 
and  injures  someone's  eye. 

"First  of  all."  says  Bourgault.  "you 
can't  manufacture  a  hammer  that  won't 
chip.  Second,  the  chip  always  fly  s  back- 
ward toward  the  center  of  rotation— which 
means  people  get  hit  in  the  face.  In  the  old 


MAY  1985 


e  issue  was  the  manufacturer's  fail- 
ure to  warn.  Now  the\  all  include  a  warn- 
ing, so  when  someone  does  get  hurt. 
whose  fault  is  it?" 

That's  the  kind  of  question  Bourgault 
wants  his  students  to  grapple  with,  so  he 
as  classroom  examples. 
Technical  engineering  problems  are  thus 
realistically  intertwined  with  safet\. 
design  and  even  moral  issues. 

Take  the  question  of  the  truck  driver 
who  was.  fired  for  falling  asleep  at  the 
wheel.  His  tractor  trailer  smashed  through 
a  guardrail  on  the  Massachusetts  Turnpike 
and  came  to  rest  at  the  foot  of  an  embank- 
ment. The  driver  wasn't  seriously  injured, 
but  the  company  fired  him  because  they 
assumed  he  had  dozed  off. 

The  driver,  however,  claimed  he  had 
pulled  into  the  left  lane  to  pass  a  car.  and 
then  lost  his  steering.  After  a  detailed 
examination.  Bourgault  found  that  a  tiny 
crack  in  the  steering  assembly  had. 
through  repeated  use.  grown  bit  by  bit 
until  a  crucial  piece  snapped.  The  driver 

Professor  Ron  Biederman:  "These  days 
you  can 't  exist  as  a  modern  technological 
university  without  support  from  industry. 
Colleges  can 't  do  it  by  themselves,  and 
government  funding  goes  largely  to  major 
research  centers.'' 


was  right;  his  steering  wheel  was  abso- 
lutely useless  at  the  time  of  the  accident. 
What  Bourgault  doesn't  know  for  sure  is 
whether  the  driver  got  his  job  back. 

We  know  that  acid  rain  is  severely 
damaging  some  lakes,  streams  and 
forests  of  the  Northeast.  But  other 
effects  have  yet  to  be  uncovered.  The 
Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Compam  of 
Rhode  Island,  for  example,  was  concerned 
that  acid  rain  might  be  causing  the  connec- 
tors and  conductors  on  their  high-tension 
power  lines  to  corrode — a  development 
that  could  have  serious  long-term  effects. 

Professor  Richard  D.  Sisson.  Jr.  of  the 
materials  group,  along  with  Professor 
Alexander  E.  Emanuel  of  the  Electrical 
Engineering  Department,  is  examining 
that  possibility. 

"'Besides  doing  standard  lab  tests,  we 
built  a  rain  chamber  and  exposed  the  con- 
nectors to  years'  worth  of  rain."  Sisson 
says.  Preliminary  findings  suggest  that  the 
rain  is  not  seriously  damaging  the  electri- 
cal parts. 

Over  the  years.  Sisson  has  done  a  lot  of 
research  on  corrosion,  which  is  simply  a 
return  of  metal  to  its  natural  state.  Since 
most  metals  are  mined  as  ores  and  then 
refined,  corrosion  represents  a  reversal  of 
the  refining  process.  The  chemical  reac- 


tion that  takes  place  involves  removal  of 
metallic  electrons  and  the  formation  of  a 
more  stable  compound— like  iron  oxide,  or 
rust. 

One  of  Sisson's  student  project  groups  is 
studying  the  effect  of  acid  rain  on  copper 
statues.  "Normal  rain  is  somewhat  acidic 
due  to  carbonic  acid  formation."  explains 
Sisson.  "And  it  reacts  with  the  copper  to 
actually  help  protect  the  statue.  But  the 
rain  is  now  becoming  a  mixture  of  nitric 
and  sulfuric  acid,  and  that's  corroding  the 
copper." 

With  Biederman.  Sisson  has  done  work 
for  the  Warner-Lambert  Company,  which 
owns  Schick.  Inc..  the  razor  blade  com- 
pany. They  studied  the  effectiveness  of 
thin  film  coatings  on  razor  blades. 

Sisson  is  also  interested  in  thermal  bar- 
rier coatings— a  thin  ceramic  layer  that 
helps  protect  metal  against  high  tempera- 
tures. A  diesel  engine,  for  example,  loses 
roughly  one-third  of  its  energy  to  the 
exhaust  system  and  one-third  to  the  radia- 
tor, leaving  only  the  final  third  for  power. 
By  coating  metal  with  ceramics— which 
have  a  much  higher  melting  point  and 
lower  thermal  conductivity— as  much  as 
half  of  that  lost  power  could  be  regained. 

Sisson  predicts  such  a  ceramic-coated 
diesel  engine  is  "not  too  far  down  the 
road."   The   problems  that  need  to  be 


VtTI  JOURNAL 


worked  on  are  the  low  fracture  toughness 
of  ceramics  and  the  difficulty  of  achieving 
a  proper  bond. 

For  the  General  Electric  Company.  Sis- 
son  is  studying  special  coatings  that  allow 
turbine  blades  to  withstand  extreme  heat. 
Specifically,  he  is  microstructurally  track- 
ing the  progress  of  GE's  secret  ingredient, 
which  Sisson  calls  "fufu  dust." 

"It's  a  combination  of  four  or  five 
alloys,"  says  Sisson.  While  he  can't  reveal 
exactly  what's  in  the  "dust."  he  does  say 
that  it's  not  all  that  earth  shattering:  most 


major  companies  in  the  field  have  their 
own  "'secret  formula." 

Sisson  also  does  ceramic  coating  work 
in  conjunction  with  NASA  and  the  Norton 
Company.  Norton's  high  performance 
ceramics  division,  located  in  Worcester, 
has  a  longstanding  relationship  with  the 
WPI  materials  group.  Over  the  years,  a 
common  interest  in  the  evaluation  of 
ceramics  has  led  Norton  to  donate  both 
materials  and  equipment  to  WPI. 

""Some  of  these  sophisticated  ceramic 
coating  systems  are  so  expensive  that  just 


getting  them  from  Norton  or  NASA  to 
evaluate  is  a  major  benefit."  Sisson  says. 

A  recent  Norton  grant  allowed  WPI  to 
buy  an  ion  milling  machine,  which 
removes  atoms  from  a  material  by  bom- 
barding it  with  ions.  The  process,  used  on 
ceramics,  thins  the  material  to  the  point 
where  it  can  be  examined  under  a  micro- 
scope. 

Students  advised  by  Sisson  are  working 
on  everything  from  the  acid  rain-statue 
study  to  coatings  for  biomedical  devices. 

"One  of  our  graduate  students.  Ichiro 
Sone.  developed  an  X-ray  diffraction  tech- 
nique to  analyze  thermal  barrier  coatings." 
Sisson  says. 

Two  other  graduate  students  are  study- 
ing at  WPI  as  part  of  Digital  Equipment 
Company's  graduate  engineering  educa- 
tion program.  They're  working  on  coat- 
ings for  microelectronic  devices,  and  on 
ceramic  substrates— what  the  microchip 
connections  are  made  on. 

Microelectronics  represent  an  important 
new  part  of  materials  engineering.  Often, 
the  underlying  question  with  integrated 
circuits  and  other  sophisticated  devices  is. 
how  do  you  get  the  heat  out?  That's  where 
processes  like  ceramic  coating  come  in. 

These  "micromechanics"  problems  are 
something  that  Assistant  Professor  Isa 
Bar-On  is  interested  in. 

"Semiconductors  have  to  be  con- 
nected." says  Bar-On.  "and  that  connec- 
tion is  often  critical.  During  its  lifetime, 
these  parts  see  a  lot  of  stress  and  heat 
cycling,  which  leads  to  mechanical  fail- 
ure." 

Since  microelectronic  parts  are  made  of 
silicon,  metal  and  other  materials,  consid- 
erations such  as  how  to  deal  with  a  crack 
that  begins  in  a  ceramic  layer  and  then 
moves  to  a  metal  layer  are  crucial. 

Questions  like  these  are  in  line  with  Bar- 
On  s  primary  interest— fracture  mechan- 
ics. Associate  Professor  Floyd  R.  Tuler. 
also  a  fracture  mechanics  expert,  notes 
that  the  discipline  has  come  a  long  way. 
"Fracture  mechanics  used  to  mean  look- 
ing out  the  window  of  an  airplane  midway 
through  a  flight  to  check  for  cracks."  he 
says  with  a  grin.  Advanced  research  began 
after  World  War  II. 

Tuler  and  Bar-On  now  conduct  their 
experiments  on  a  sophisticated  materials 
testing  system  in  the  Arthur  E.  Smith  I  '33 1 
Laboratory.   A  computer  makes  split- 

The  computer-controlled  materials  testing 
machine  in  the  Arthur  E.  Smith  Labora- 
tory lets  Floyd  R.  Tuler  {left).  Isa  Bar-On 
fright)  and  Colin  Lawrence  '85.  ofWin- 
sted,  CT.  precisely  evaluate  specimens. 


MAY  1985 


■■■ 


'VI  r/?/r<i  of  the  world 's  energy  resources 
are  lost  due  to  friction  and  wear,"  says  tri- 
bologist  Sara  A.  Dillich. 

second  calculations  and  allows  precise 
measurements  to  be  made. 

A  material  can  be  tested  in  a  variety  of 
ways.  Compression  and  tension  tests— in 
which  a  sample  is  either  "squashed"  or 
"stretched"— indicate  how  much  load  can 
be  withstood.  Some  materials  become 
stronger  when  stretched  to  a  certain  point, 
but  may  also  become  more  brittle. 

Impact  tests  measure  capacity  to  with- 
stand a  "shock  load,"  such  as  might  occur 
in  sudden,  isolated  instances.  In  fatigue 
testing,  a  lifetime  cycle  of  "abuse"  is  sim- 
ulated by  cyclic  loading.  A  sample  may  be 
bent  or  twisted  thousands  of  times  per 
minute.  It  may  also  be  tested  to  determine 
its  behavior  under  extreme  heat. 

Since  materials,  like  humans,  all  have 
cracks  and  flaws— be  they  microscopic  or 
clearly  visible— the  vital  issue  is  determin- 
ing when  the  combination  of  crack  and 
stress  will  reach  the  critical  point. 

That's  an  important  question  for  a  com- 
pany like  the  Electric  Boat  Division  (EB) 
of  General  Dynamics  Corp.  EB,  which 
builds  submarines,  can  conduct  precise 
analytical  tests — computer  modeling  and 
so  forth— but  prefers  to  back  them  up  with 
laboratory  experiments,  currently  being 
carried  out  at  WPI. 

There  are  a  number  of  variables  EB 
must  consider.  A  submarine's  hull,  for 
example,  is  alternately  pressurized  and  de- 
pressurized.  Weld  joints  change  the  prop- 
erties of  the  steel.  Sea  water,  too,  so  inten- 
sively corrosive,  is  another  consideration: 
As  soon  as  an  object  cracks,  it  corrodes 
much  more  rapidly.  EB  sends  Tuler  and 
Bar-On  samples,  and  they  run  them 
through  a  battery  of  tests. 

For  General  Electric,  Tuler  is  studying 


materials  used  to  make  jet  engine  parts 
formed  under  optimum  conditions  of  tem- 
perature and  rate. 

Similarly,  he  conducts  fracture  evalua- 
tion on  superalloys  that  the  Wyman- 
Gordon  Company  uses  to  forge  jet  engine 
parts  for  the  Air  Force. 

A  group  of  Tuler's  project  students  are 
evaluating  a  new  composite  material 
developed  by  Science  Applications  Inter- 
national, Inc.,  of  La  Jolla,  CA.  The  mate- 
rial—silicon carbide  reinforced  alumi- 
num—has the  advantage  of  being  both  stiff 
and  light.  The  project  group  is  examining 
fatigue  crack  behavior. 

It's  not  cracks  so  much  as  wear  and  tear 
that  interests  the  newest  member  of  the 
materials  group,  Assistant  Professor  Sara 
Dillich. 

"A  third  of  the  world's  energy  resources 
are  lost  due  to  friction  and  wear,"  says  Dil- 
lich. "Not  to  mention  billions  of  dollars  in 
down-time." 

One  of  the  techniques  that  Dillich  and 
other  tribologists— those  who  study  fric- 
tion and  wear— are  exploring  is  the  use  of 
ion  implantation  to  change  a  material's 


Richard  D.  Sisson,Jr.,  (foreground)  and 
Alexander  Emanuel  (Electrical  Engineer- 
ing) are  studying  the  effects  of  acid  rain 
on  the  connectors  and  conductors  on  high- 
tension  power  lines. 

surface  properties.  Although  the  ions  pen- 
etrate to  only  a  very  shallow  depth  ( 100  to 
200  nanometers,  one  nanometer  equalling 
one  billionth  of  a  meter),  significant 
changes  in  a  material's  mechanical  and 
chemical  properties  can  be  effected. 

"The  important  advantage  about  ion 
implantation  is  that  it  doesn't  produce 
dimensional  changes  in  the  workpiece," 
says  Dillich.  Current  industrial  uses  for 
the  procedure  therefore  tend  toward  parts 
with  tight  tolerances— ball  bearings,  gears, 
valves  and  pumps  and  high  speed  drills, 
for  example. 

While  just  about  any  element  can  be 
implanted,  Dillich  says,  nitrogen  and  tita- 
mium  implantations  have  been  most  suc- 
cessful in  improving  the  tribology  of 
steels.  Dillich  is  also  interested  in  surface 
modification  by  laser  processing,  and  cav- 
itation erosion— the  wearing  away  of  sur- 


10       WPI  JOURNAL 


faces  like  metal  or  concrete  due  to  the  col- 
lapse of  air  pockets  in  a  surrounding  fluid. 

If  understanding  the  structure  and  prop- 
erties of  a  material  represents  a  vital 
starting  point,  the  logical  next  step  is 
placing  the  material  in  a  useful  form. 

"Once  you  know  what  your  goals  are," 
says  Professor  Bennett  E.  Gordon  Jr.,  who 
oversees  the  materials  processing  facilities 
on  the  first  floor  of  Washburn,  "then  you 
have  to  select  the  right  material  and  the 
right  manufacturing  method." 

Thus  the  first  floor  of  Washburn  is 
equipped  with  a  full  range  of  machining, 
welding,  casting  and  heat  treating  facili- 
ties. In  addition,  there  are  facilities  for 
injection  molding,  computer  numerical 
control  (CNC)  machinery  and  computer- 
aided  manufacturing  (CAM).  Right  next 
door  are  the  robotics  labs  of  the  Manufac- 
turing Engineering  Applications  Center 
(MEAC),  where  programmable  automa- 
tion can  be  introduced  into  the  manufac- 
turing process. 

This  combination  of  the  fundamental 
and  the  high-tech  approach  to  engineering 
is  especially  appropriate  for  undergraduate 
students. 

"No  matter  how  many  computers  you 
have,"  Gordon  points  out,  "there  are  some 
machining  processes  that  are  fundamental. 
You've  got  to  understand  the  basics  of 
making  and  shaping." 

Certainly  the  people  at  Worcester's 
Wy man-Gordon  Company  would  agree. 
As  one  of  the  largest  producers  of  ad- 
vanced forgings  for  aerospace  products, 
they  are  constantly  looking  for  ways  to 
make  better  forgings  more  efficiently. 

While  a  good  deal  of  their  research  is 
done  on  the  manufacturing  end,  it  starts 
(or  ends,  depending  on  how  you  look  at  it) 
under  a  microscope.  More  specifically,  it 
starts  with  Ron  Biederman  peering  into 


Longtime  engineering  assistant  George  E. 
Schmidt,  Jr. ,  an  expert  photographer, 
oversees  the  extensive  darkroom  facilities. 
Besides  instructing  students  on  the  finer 
points  of  developing  film  from  the  electron 
microscopes,  he  produces  graphs,  charts 
and  prints  for  faculty  research  projects. 

one  of  the  giant  electron  microscopes 
across  the  hall  from  his  office.  One  was 
donated  by  the  Elizabeth  A.  Lufkin  Trust 
and  one  by  Wy  man-Gordon. 

"The  company  came  to  us  in  1975," 
Biederman  says  of  Wyman-Gordon, 
"looking  for  a  place  to  help  them  conduct 
more  fundamental  research,  primarily  on 
nickel-  and  titanium-based  alloys.  They 
were  willing  to  donate  funding  and  equip- 
ment if  we  were  willing  to  explore  issues 
of  concern  to  them." 

At  the  time,  Biederman  had  more  work 
than  he  could  handle,  but  he  knew  this  was 
too  good  an  opportunity  to  pass  up.  What 
Biederman  calls  a  "win-win"  agreement 
was  reached,  and  the  relationship  has  been 
going  strong  ever  since. 

"There  are  a  number  of  ways  to  make 
forgings,"  Biederman  says,  by  way  of 
explaining  Wyman-Gordon 's  primary 
emphasis.  "And  the  best  way  differs  with 
each  material.  You  also  have  to  juggle 
forging  variables— like  temperature  and 
strain  rate.  The  strain  rate,  for  example, 
can  be  different  in  different  regions  of  a 
forging.  Uneven  strain  leads  to  uneven 
structure  which  leads  to  uneven  proper- 
ties." 

To  get  an  idea  of  the  delicate  nature  of 
some  of  Wyman-Gordon 's  work,  consider 
the  turbine  engine  components  produced 
through  a  procedure  called  powder  metal- 
lurgy processing.  The  metallic  powder  is 
compacted  in  a  die,  then  heated  and  fused. 
Not  only  is  the  powder  extremely  expen- 
sive—as much  as  $50  a  pound— but  the 


danger  of  contamination  is  ever  present. 
While  the  company  takes  extreme  precau- 
tions to  prevent  oxidation — the  powder  is 
never  exposed  to  the  air  from  the  time  it  is 
produced  until  the  time  it  is  fully  consoli- 
dated—the material  still  needs  to  be 
checked. 

Usually,  a  "plug"  is  taken  from  an 
appropriate  part  of  the  finished  product, 
and  careful  microstructural  analysis  is  per- 
formed. Biederman  does  this  using  the 
analytical  electron  microscope  donated  by 
Wyman-Gordon.  Analytical  microscopes 
have  the  capacity  to  perform  as  a  scanning 
or  a  transmission  microscope.  With  a 
scanning  microscope,  the  electron  beam 
sweeps  across  a  specimen,  and  an  image  is 
formed  in  much  the  same  way  that  a  tele- 
vision picture  is  produced.  A  transmission 
electron  microscope  is  similar  to  a  regular 
optical  microscope,  except  that  the  object 
is  "illuminated"  by  an  electron  beam 
rather  than  light. 

"A  school  doesn't  just  go  out  and  buy 
one  of  these,"  Biederman  says,  nodding 
toward  the  electron  microscope.  "And 
even  if  you  could  afford  the  initial  invest- 
ment, the  maintenance  is  unbelieveable. 
And  assuming  you  could  handle  that,  you 
couldn't  afford  to  replace  it  after  it  became 
dated.  After  making  that  kind  of  invest- 
ment, you'd  have  to  hang  onto  it  for  years 
and  years. 

"It's  the  same  thing  with  MEAC.  Col- 
leges by  themselves  can't  set  up  a  lab  and 
continually  stock  it  with  state-of-the-art 
robots. 

"These  days  you  can't  exist  as  a  modern 
technological  institution  without  support 
from  industry.  Colleges  can't  do  it  alone 
and  government  funding  goes  largely  to 
major  research  centers." 

This  place  is  busy,"  Biederman  is  say- 
ing now  with  a  grin.  Students  dart  in 
and  out  of  the  shiny  new  labs  that 
line  the  corridor.  They  peer  through  micro- 
scopes, polish  samples,  develop  film  or 
chat  with  faculty  members. 

"But  I  wouldn't  have  it  any  other  way," 
he  continues.  "You  either  have  an  open 
lab  or  a  closed  lab.  There's  no  inbetween. 
Here,  everybody  can  use  just  about  every- 
thing. That's  the  way  we  do  things." 

Which  seems  to  be  just  fine  with  every- 
one involved.  This  corner  of  the  campus  is 
alive  with  a  vibrant  faculty  and  top-notch 
facilities— proving  once  again  that  some 
people  are  a  complete  success  at  dealing 
with  failure. 

Michael  Shanley  is  director  of  the  WPI 
News  Bureau. 


MAY  1985 


11 


First  of  a  two-part  series. 

Student  projects— one  in  the  major 
field  (the  Major  Qualifying  Project,  or 
MQP)  and  one  that  brings  technological 
know-how  to  a  societal  need  (the  Inter- 
active Qualifying  Project,  IQP)  are  the 
uniting  element  of  the  WPI  experience. 
Projects  are  as  diverse  in  their  focus  as 
students  are  in  their  personal  goals. 


kinds  of  technical  demands,  budgetary 
and  time  constraints,  teamwork  inter- 
changes and  accountability  that  they'll 
find  once  they  enter  the  world  beyond 
Boynton  Hill. 

The  exercise  is  uncommonly  life-like. 
In  fact,  in  their  projects  students  often 
serve  as  consultants  or  researchers  for 
corporate,   nonprofit  or  government 


working  alongside  faculty  and  practi- 
tioners, acting  as  junior  colleagues 
where  the  stakes  are  real. 

Daniel  Laprade  compiled  the  follow- 
ing accounts  of  a  broad  selection  of  stu- 
dent projects.  They  were  published  ear- 
lier this  year  in  Newspeak,  the  WPI 
student  newspaper.  Dan,  who  will  grad- 
uate this  year  in  civil  engineering,  is 


Projects  confront  students  with  the      organizations,   on  campus  and  off,     from  Holyoke,  MA. 

PROJECT  UPDATE 


By  Daniel  Laprade  '85 


Computer  Science  Project 

Blazing  New  Trails  in 

Physiology 

There  may  not  be  obvious  connections 
between  a  couple  of  WPI  computer  sci- 
ence majors  and  the  medical  personnel  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical 
Center.  But  for  Computer  Science  Assist- 
ant Professor  James  Coggins  and  MQP 
students  Beth  Phalen  ('85,  Towaco,  NJ) 
and  Sue  Abramson  ('85,  Wilmington, 
DE),  their  CS  background  has  plunged 
them  into  an  exciting  new  realm  of  physi- 
ology. 

The  project  was  sparked  by  Coggins, 
who  has  done  work  at  the  UMass  Medical 
Center,  located  in  Worcester.  He  was 
aware  of  research  being  done  by  Dr.  Fred 
Fay,  who  has  been  investigating  smooth 
muscle  cell  construction.  But  according  to 
Coggins,  Fay  ran  into  complications  when 
it  came  time  to  develop  a  mathematical 
computer  model  of  these  cells. 

Adds  Abramson,  "Dr.  Fay  had  been  try- 
ing to  visualize  in  three  dimensions  just 
what  smooth  muscle  cells  look  like."  In 
particular,  she  says,  the  orientation  of  the 
cells'  protein  bodies,  which  are  believed  to 
affect  their  contraction,  was  a  problem. 

Research  in  this  area  is  commonly  done 
using  microscopic  photography.  Such 
methods,  however,  still  leave  the  re- 
searcher with  a  two-dimensional  expres- 
sion of  what  is,  in  reality,  a  three-dimen- 
sional system. 

"The  problem  is  similar  to  computer- 
aided  design  and  manufacturing  [CAD- 


CAM]  systems,"  explains  Phalen.  "For 
years  people  worked  with  design  blue- 
prints, which  did  not  always  do  an  ade- 
quate job  of  representing  the  third  dimen- 
sion. Then  the  CAD  system  came  along, 
and  you  could  turn  the  picture  around  on 
the  screen,  you  could  lift  it  up,  flip  it ...  it 
made  'seeing'  an  object  so  much  easier. 
This  technology  seems  to  enable  new 
ways  of  looking  at  cells,  too." 

"We  want  to  put  muscle  cells  on  the 
computer  screen  and  be  able  to  'travel' 
through  them,  and  turn  and  look  at  them 
from  whatever  angle  we  want,"  says 
Abramson. 

Information  from  the  photographs  of  the 
different  orientations  of  the  protein  bodies 
is  used  to  develop  a  data  base  and  thus  to 
create  the  cell  image  on  a  graphics  screen. 
The  graphics  screen  is  similar  to  a  regular 
computer  terminal,  but  offers  more  than 
4,000  shades  of  colors  to  aid  in  "seeing" 
the  cells. 

The  specific  area  that  Phalen  and 
Abramson  are  concentrating  on  is  allowing 
the  computer  user  to  be  "mobile"  within 
the  cell.  By  moving  a  joystick  (similar  to 
those  used  for  video  games)  the  user  can 
move  through  the  cell. 

"As  Professor  Coggins  likes  to  describe 
it,"  says  Abramson,  "it  allows  you  to 
become  microscopic  and  fly  through  the 
cell  and  stop  and  look  up  or  down,  right  or 
left,  or  whatever."  Being  able  to  'fly' 
through  the  cell  allows  Dr.  Fay  and  his 
colleagues  to  determine  the  arrangement 
of  the  protein  bodies.  Further,  the  bodies 
that  are  strung  together  can  be  shaded  in  a 
color  to  allow  for  clearer  visualization. 

Every  Wednesday  the  project  partners 


and  advisor  Coggins  head  for  the  Medical 
Center  to  use  the  graphics  system.  The 
women  admit  that  at  first  the  whole 
scheme  seemed  a  bit  much.  Phalen  recalls 
the  fall  semester  anxieties:  "When  Sue 
and  I  first  got  into  this  work  not  only  were 
we  a  little  apprehensive  about  the  physiol- 
ogy background  we  might  be  expected  to 
know,  but  also  neither  one  of  us  had  done 
much  work  with  computer  graphics." 

The  team  spent  a  good  part  of  the  fall 
familiarizing  themselves  with  the  graphics 
system  at  the  Medical  Center.  With  the 
help  of  enthusiastic  support  of  both  Cog- 
gins and  the  Medical  Center  staff,  the  two 
women  have  forged  ahead  into  a  project 
that  clearly  excites  them. 

"This  is  really  quite  a  pioneering  adven- 
ture," Abramson  points  out.  "It's  the  first 
time  that  the  physiology  field  at  UMass 
has  used  computer  graphics  to  aid  in  their 
research."  Eventually  the  women  hope  to 
write  a  manual  that  can  simplify  use  of  the 
system  to  enable  more  and  more  medical 
personnel— who  may  not  be  computer 
experts— to  benefit  from  this  new  technol- 
ogy- 

Abramson  and  Phalen  emphasize  that 
their  work  is  just  the  beginning.  Already, 
they  have  found  new  avenues  of  investiga- 
tion wide  open  for  further  work,  if  only 
they  had  the  time  to  pursue  them. 


MEs  Tackle  MQP 
That's  a  Test  of  Strength 

For  Senior  Mechanical  Engineering  stu- 
dents Scott  Hand,  Teresita  Icaza,  Jean- 


12       WPI  JOURNAL 


Paul  Thomsin,  and  Frank  Wu,  the  testing 
room  in  the  hollows  of  Higgins  Labs  has 
become  more  than  a  familiar  place.  It's 
here  that  they  have  spent  endless  hours 
using  the  400,000  lb.  tensile  machine  as 
part  of  an  MQP  sponsored  by  the  Riley 
Stoker  Company  of  Worcester. 

It  was  nearly  a  year  ago  that  Riley 
Stoker  sent  a  letter  to  WPI  offering  project 
work  testing  a  structural  support  system 
that  it  felt  to  be  overdesigned  and  thus  too 
expensive.  The  challenge  caught  the  atten- 
tion of  the  four  students  and  mechanical 
engineering  Professor  Raymond  R.  Hag- 
glund.  By  the  beginning  of  Spring  Term 
1984,  the  group's  work  was  already  under- 
way—work that  at  times  would  pose 
intriguing  complications. 

The  Riley  Stoker  challenge  developed 
out  of  the  design  of  steam  generating  fur- 
naces. On  a  large  industrial  scale,  the  boil- 
ers of  these  systems  are  seldom  allowed  to 
be  attached  to  the  floor  or  wall  structures 
because  of  the  expansion  resulting  from 
the  tremendous  heat  generated.  More  fre- 
quently, such  systems  are  hung  from  ceil- 
ing beams. 

The  vertical  support  structures  for  this 
system  are  attached  to  the  boiler's  large 
super-heated  steam  collection  pipes,  called 
headers.  It  is  the  attachment  of  these  sup- 
port units,  called  lugs,  to  the  headers  that 
has  become  an  area  of  concern.  The  cur- 
rent practice,  says  Thomsin  (Acton,  MA), 
is  to  weld  the  lugs  to  the  header,  a  process 
that  takes  about  two  hours  for  each  header/ 
lug  assembly. 

There  is  no  wealth  of  data  for  such  an 
attachment  design.  However,  work  done 
in  the  1950s  by  P.P.  Biglaard,  who  con- 
ducted both  theoretical  and  experimental 
work  in  this  area,  has  given  the  group 
insight  into  the  analysis  of  header/lug 
attachments.  Unfortunately,  the  Biglaard 
theory  does  not  extend  to  the  strain  ranges 
used  in  the  Riley  Stoker  system.  As  Wu, 
who  is  from  Lexington,  MA,  explains, 
"The  existing  curves  on  weld  design  do 
not  cover  the  zone  we  are  dealing  with,  so 
we  have  to  try  to  get  the  feel  for  what  those 
extended  curves  might  look  like." 

After  the  group  had  familiarized  them- 
selves with  the  background  literature,  their 
next  task  was  to  design  the  test  model  to  be 
used  in  the  tensile  machine.  Since  it  was 
impractical  to  use  the  actual  furnace 
header,  they  had  to  develop  a  highly  repre- 
sentative model  of  the  system.  They  came 
up  with  two  slightly  different  models  to 
simulate  the  two  header/lug  assemblies 
most  frequently  encountered.  The  manu- 
facturing and  shipment  of  the  models  was 
a  project  in  itself,  Wu  adds. 


MQP  team  members  (front  to  back)  Scott  Hand,  Jean-Paul  Thomsin  and  Terry  Icaza 
testing  the  design  integrity  of  a  Riley  Stoker  Corporation  header/assembler. 


Thomsin  describes  the  situation:  "We 
sent  our  specifications  to  Riley  Stoker, 
here  in  Worcester,  and  they  sent  them  to 
their  manufacturing  plant  in  Erie,  PA. 
From  there  the  two  models  were  sent  to 
campus.  Each  of  the  models  cost  about 
$4,000  without  labor,  and  we  soon  found 
out  they  weren't  light — about  a  ton  apiece." 

Once  the  models  finally  settled  into  the 
basement  of  the  ME  building,  the  team  set 
up  for  testing.  The  surface  of  the  model 
had  to  undergo  extensive  preparation  treat- 


ment before  the  team  could  locate  some  80 
strain  gauges  used  to  collect  the  data 
needed  for  further  analysis.  Each  gauge 
has  two  connecting  wires,  so  once  the 
model  was  completely  hooked  up,  the 
team  viewed  a  mammoth  hunk  of  material 
shrouded  in  wires. 

As  a  result  of  their  research,  the  team 
feels  that  the  attachment  in  question  is 
unquestionably  overdesigned.  In  their 
models  they  anticipated  using  tensile  loads 
around  140,000  lbs.,  but  have  discovered 


MAY  1985        13 


that  they  may  have  to  go  as  high  as 
250,000  lbs.  to  cause  failure.  They  are 
concerned,  however,  that  other  parts  will 
fail  at  such  high  loads,  and  they  are  also 
unsure  whether  the  actual  system  is  true  to 
the  model  design  the  team  sent  to  Riley 
Stoker. 

"We  are  finding  that  there  are  slight  var- 
iations in  some  of  the  specs  we  sent  in,  and 
what  Riley  Stoker  sent  us,"  says  Hand,  of 
Plymouth,  MI.  "If  something  is  off  by 
even  a  hair,  it  could  generate  questionable 
data.  Right  now  we  don't  know  for  sure 
how  this  will  affect  our  results,  but  we're 
hoping  that  such  small  variations  won't 
hurt." 

Despite  complications,  the  team  is  quick 
to  acknowledge  the  fact  that  Riley  Stoker 
has  been  supportive  throughout  the  MQP 
efforts.  The  aim,  of  course— for  both 
Riley  Stoker  and  the  project  team— is  to 
save  the  company  money. 

EEs  Challenge 
Conversion  Scheme 

While  many  student  projects  are  leaps  into 
innovative  design,  others  are  sparked  by 
curiousity  about  scientific  theory.  Such  is 
the  case  in  an  MQP  developed  by  three 
electrical  engineering  majors,  Andrew 
Cott  ('85,  Nashua,  NH),  Reynold  Dodson 
('85,  Gales  Ferry,  CT),  and  Dave  Grusell 
('85,  Worcester,  MA),  with  the  help  of 
Assitant  Professor  David  Cyganski  '75. 

This  project  has  been  in  the  making  for 
some  time— at  least  in  the  mind  of  Profes- 
sor Cyganski.  The  group  explains  that  he 
knew  of  a  new  scheme  developed  for  con- 
verting analog  signal  to  digital  and  vice 
versa.  Cyganski,  however,  was  not  sold  on 
the  design,  since  he  had  worked  on  similar 
systems  while  employed  at  Bell  Laborato- 
ries. 

Cyganski  introduced  the  trio  to  the 
research  report  "Proceedings  of  1981 
European  Conference  on  Circuit  and 
Design,"  and  the  group  enthusiastically 
accepted  the  challenge  of  proving  or  dis- 
proving the  system  scheme. 

Converting  analog  to  digital  and  vice 
versa  has  become  commonplace  in  elec- 
tronics. And  the  concept  behind  switching 
and  sending  digital  and  analog  information 
is  not  as  complex  as  one  might  think.  Ana- 
log information  can  best  be  represented  by 
transmitting  waves  through  the  air,  similar 
to  the  method  used  in  radio  or  television 
broadcasts.  This  technique  allows  for 
great  detail  in  information,  but  is  subject 
to  interference. 

Digital  schemes,  on  the  other  hand,  are 


immune  to  the  problems  of  interference 
because  information  is  transmitted  binarily 
through  a  wire,  as  occurs  in  a  computer. 
Unfortunately,  digital  systems  are  short  on 
detail.  So  in  an  effort  to  incorporate  the 
best  features  of  both,  researchers  have 
developed  a  method  of  converting  analog 
to  digital  and  digital  to  analog.  This  proce- 
dure is  utilized  in  myriad  technologies, 
such  as  telephone  systems  and  digitally- 
recorded  music. 

Since  the  systems  exist— and  work— the 
brunt  of  research  has  been  to  create  the 
most  efficient  system  of  conversion— thus 
to  reduce  costs.  The  MQP  group  is  curious 
about  the  results  in  the  mentioned  report. 

As  Dodson  explains,  "We  know  that  the 
system  described  works,  but  none  of  us 
believes  that  it  works  up  to  the  perfor- 
mance specifications  listed." 

The  initial  task  for  the  group  was  to 
build  the  system  according  to  the  details 
laid  out  in  the  report.  Next  they  would 
cany  out  the  same  testing  procedure  as 
those  described  and  compare  the  results. 

This  work  requires  close  attention  to  the 
details  of  the  report  to  ensure  accurate 
data.  "This  had  been  a  bit  of  a  problem  to 
us,"  explains  Grusell,  "because  the  report 
explains  what  has  to  be  done,  but  doesn't 
give  much  detail  as  to  how  to  do  it." 

Adds  Cott,  "We're  not  the  only  people 
who  have  felt  their  report  is  shoddy.  At  an 
IEEE  [Institute  of  Electrical  and  Elec- 
tronic Engineers]  conference  that  Profes- 
sor Cyganski  attended,  there  were  others 
who  questioned  the  entire  study." 

Although  they  have  been  hampered 
somewhat  by  the  lack  of  detail,  the  group 
report  that  the  work  is  progressing  well, 
and  they  do  not  anticipate  any  major  com- 
plications. They  feel  confident  that  they 
can  duplicate  the  system  and  get  valuable 
data. 

The  investigation  continues. 

Debugging  Industrial 
Management  at  GE 

With  industrial  competition  so  fierce, 
pressure  on  industrial  engineers  to  boost 
efficiency  ratings  is  a  given  in  the  corpo- 
rate millieu.  Some  companies  find  help 
from  consulting  firms.  Others  seek  assis- 
tance through  WPI's  undergraduate  project 
system. 

General  Electric  Company  is  hoping 
that  the  MQP  team  of  Jeff  Horowitz  ('85, 
Commack,  NY),  Amaro  Goncalves  ('85, 
Venezuela),  Franz  Roesner  ('85,  Avon, 
CT),  and  Mary  McLaughlin  ('86,  Hano- 
ver, MA)  can  improve  the  efficiency  of  the 


firm's    Aerospace    Division    plant    in 
Wilmington,  MA. 

According  to  Roesner,  GE  considers 
operating  costs  too  high  and  the  time  lag 
between  manufacturing  and  sales  too  long. 
The  company,  he  notes,  seeks  an  ad- 
vanced automation  system  design  from  the 
group  and  their  advisors,  Management 
Professors  Arthur  Gerstenfeld  and  Hans 
Thamhain. 

After  several  weeks  of  stop-and-go 
starts  on  the  project,  needed  to  establish 
priorities  with  company  officials,  the  plan 
that  the  project  team  selected  was  similar 
to  one  GE  uses  for  its  defense  plants.  It  is 
a  method  that  involves  six  steps:  top-down 
factory  analysis,  comparative  study  with 
current  automation  plans,  systems  specifi- 
cations study,  vendor-selection  study,  final 
recommendations,  and  implementation. 

This  type  of  approach,  says  McLaugh- 
lin, involves  a  tremendous  amount  of 
work.  The  team  explains  that  they  have 
the  time  to  tackle  the  first  three  phases,  but 
the  analysis  will  not  be  completed  until 
several  more  project  groups  have  com- 
pleted the  work  they  have  started. 

In  some  of  their  preliminary  studies  the 
team  has  identified  several  problem  areas 
at  the  Wilmington  plant.  One  weak  area 
appears  to  be  stockroom  techniques. 
Explains  Horowitz:  "GE  receives  a  ship- 
ment of  materials  in,  say,  the  morning,  but 
it  might  not  get  recorded  in  the  computer 
system  until  the  end  of  the  day  or  even  the 
next  day.  Well,  in  the  meantime,  some  of 
those  materials  have  been  taken  out  of  the 
stockroom,  and  the  final  result  can  be  an 
inaccurate  inventory.  We're  recommend- 
ing improvement  in  the  automated  stock- 
room for  a  start." 

Another  area  of  concern  is  product  flow. 
The  group  will  suggest  approaches  to 
rerouting  materials  more  efficiently.  The 
team  also  cites  an  inexpensive  recommen- 
dation to  create  "group  technology  work 
stations."  These  arrangements  combine 
similar  work  operations  into  the  same 
physical  area,  which  cuts  down  on  wasted 
time,  says  Goncalves. 

All  of  these  recommendations  are  rela- 
tively broad,  he  admits,  since  most  of  the 
group's  efforts  thus  far  have  been  to  estab- 
lish a  plan  of  approach.  "We've  conducted 
a  systems  analysis,"  he  adds,  "but  we 
hope  that  later  project  groups  will  do  more 
detailed  evaluations." 

Working  in  the  same  direction  as  the 
WPI  project  group  is  GE's  own  consulting 
firm.  "We  anticipate  that  the  final  reports 
of  both  groups  will  be  taken  into  consider- 
ation when  proposed  changes  reach  the 
decision  stage,"  says  Horowitz. 


14       WPI  JOURNAL 


Graduate  student  Gerald  Kulhowvick  (left)  and  Edward  Williams  '85  prepare  a  portion  of  an  offshore  oil  rig  support  beam,  with  its 
scallop-shaped  repair  sleeve,  for  finite  element  analysis. 


Adds  McLaughlin,  "GE  seems  to  be 
taking  our  work  seriously.  So  are  we."  On 
several  occasions,  she  says,  "The  com- 
pany's enthusiasm  was  such  that  we  had  to 
remind  them— politely— that  the  project 
team  consists  of  students,  not  professional 
consultants.  But  that's  OK  with  us." 

Researching  Offshore 
Oil  Rig  Repairs 

Although  offshore  oil  rigs  are  far  from 
WPI,  a  fascinating  element  of  these  mar- 
vels of  construction  has  sparked  a  chal- 
lenging project  at  WPI.  The  project  deals 
with  improving  the  repair  scheme  for  oil 
rig  underwater  reinforcement  beams. 

The  road  to  developing  this  project,  say 
graduate  student  Jerry  Kulhowvick  (Tor- 
rington,  CT)  and  CE  major  Ed  Williams 
('85,  Lunenburg,  MA)  has  been,  at  times, 
a  frustrating  one,  but  the  team  hope  the 
hurdles  are  behind  them  now. 

Kulhowvick's  interest  in  oceanographic 
and  materials  engineering  led  him  to  Sea- 
Con  Services  of  New  Iberia,  LA. 

Apparently,  some  of  the  beams  of  oil 
rigs'  structures  are  periodically  bent  or 
fractured  by  equipment  or  boating  mis- 
haps. Many  times  the  members  are  weak- 
ened from  corrosion  and  need  repair.  Sea- 
Con,  Kulhowvick  learned,  needed  a 
research  team  to  examine  a  troubling  fea- 
ture of  its  underwater  repairing  apparatus. 


Most  repairs  are  done  underwater, 
where  welding  can  be  treacherous.  Nor- 
mally, the  damaged  portion  of  the  beam  is 
sandwiched  in  a  sleeve  welded  onto  the 
beam.  These  repairing  devices  are  called 
"scalloped  split  sleeves,"  or  SSSs. 

Sea-Con's  concern  over  the  SSS  was 
that  it  might  be  overdesigned.  The  uncon- 
ventional scalloped  shape  allows  for  more 
welding  area  to  ensure  a  secure  bond 
between  sleeve  and  pipe.  Such  a  configu- 
ration is  more  expensive  in  terms  of  pro- 
duction, welding  time  and  material,  Wil- 
liams explains. 

Though  he  and  Kulhowvick  saw  an 
opportunity  in  the  dilemma  for  a  challeng- 
ing project,  faculty  advisors  cautioned 
them  about  such  an  endeavor.  As  Williams 
points  out,  "The  geometric  shape  of  the 
sleeves  makes  any  kind  of  analysis  diffi- 
cult. It's  tough  to  get  a  feel  for  it." 

Professors  Frank  DeFalco  (CE)  and 
Hartley  Grandin  (ME)  agreed  to  supervise 
the  students  in  their  efforts.  For  Kulhow- 
vick the  project  will  be  the  subject  of  his 
master's  thesis;  for  Williams  it  serves  as 
his  MQP 

Both  students  were  familiar  with  a 
method  of  analysis  called  the  finite  ele- 
ment method  (FEM).  Briefly,  FEM  breaks 
the  sleeve  geometrically  into  many  pieces 
and  analyzes  the  stresses  and  strains  on 
each  of  these  elements.  As  might  be 
expected,  such  a  technique  can  quickly 
lead  to  a  migraine  headache  if  done  with- 


out the  aid  of  a  computer. 

At  this  point,  Kurt  Ross  '81,  an  earlier 
thesis  advisee  of  Professor  DeFalco,  got 
into  the  picture.  At  the  time  a  software 
development  engineer  at  Applicon,  of 
Burlington,  MA,  Ross  worked  out  an 
arrangement  to  provide  Kulhowvick  and 
Williams  computer  access  at  Applicon,  a 
leading  supplier  of  turnkey  CAD/CAM 
systems.  What  is  more,  Ed  Williams  has 
since  joined  the  company  full  time,  while 
Ross  has  moved  on  to  Pacific  Telesis 
Group. 

At  Applicon  the  team  fed  the  FEM  com- 
puter system  many  different  sleeve  dimen- 
sions. They  then  reviewed  the  results  of 
the  computer's  handiwork  to  determine  if 
indeed  the  repair  device  was  overdesigned 
and,  if  so,  what  design  would  be  better. 

To  both  students,  this  is  more  than  just 
project  work.  Kulhowvick  explains:  "We 
definitely  feel  our  work  is  valuable  to  Sea- 
Con.  We  hope  that  our  results  will  ulti- 
mately save  them  money." 

Postscript:  How  valuable  has  the  study 
been?  Well,  consider  this:  Ten  major  oil 
companies  have  invested  half  a  million 
dollars  in  an  effort  to  review  this  same 
feature  of  their  oil  rig  structures.  Recently 
the  WPI  team  received  a  $3,000  grant 
from  several  oil  companies  to  underwrite 
their  work.  And  this  spring,  Kulhowvick 
and  Williams  will  travel  south  to  oil  coun- 
try to  present  their  findings  to  the  petro- 
leum industry. 


MAY  1985        15 


Paul  Allaire  '60: 

Holding  the  Reins  at  Xerox 

Paul  Allaire  admits  to  being  "keen  on  horseback  rid- 
ing," a  sport  which  seems  a  natural  for  an  executive 
on  a  fast  track.  And  as  the  new  senior  vice  president 
and  chief  staff  officer  of  Xerox  Corporation,  he  runs 
on  a  very  fast  track,  indeed. 

By  Ruth  Trask 


The  Xerox  Corporation,  including  Rank 
Xerox  and  Fuji  Xerox,  is  fighting  a  fierce 
battle  with  Japan  for  dominance  of  the 
world  photocopier  market,  which  is  worth 
over  $20  billion  annually.  At  Xerox,  Paul 
Allaire  finds  himself  in  the  thick  of  the 
fray. 

"During  the  past  ten  years,  Japanese 
companies  have  become  a  major  force  in 
large  sections  of  the  copier  market,"  he 
reports.  "Through  revenues  from  copying, 
Xerox  still  has  nearly  half  of  the  world 
market,"  he  explains,  "but  the  Japanese 
command  about  75  percent  of  total  unit 
sales  worldwide." 

Allaire  is  helping  to  turn  that  latter  fig- 
ure around.  And  he  has  the  track  record  to 
doit. 

After  receiving  his  BS  from  WPI  ("I 
was  a  rather  reluctant  electrical  engi- 
neer"), Allaire  postponed  graduate  school 
plans  to  opt  for  a  job  as  a  "memory  devel- 
opment engineer"  with  Univac  in  Phila- 
delphia. He  then  worked  for  GE  with 
NATO,  devising  an  air  weapons  control 
system  for  monitoring  airspace,  identify- 
ing friendly  versus  hostile  aircraft,  guiding 
fighters  and  missiles  against  hostile  air- 
craft. Subsequently,  he  earned  an  MS  in 
industrial  administration  from  Carnegie- 
Mellon  University  (CMU),  Pittsburgh. 

In  1966,  following  his  graduation  from 
CMU,  he  joined  Xerox  and  held  various 
financial  planning  and  analysis  posts 
before  being  named  controller  of  market- 
ing in  1969.  He  was  promoted  to  director 
of  financial  planning  and  control  for  Rank 
Xerox  (England)  in  1970,  and  returned  to 
Xerox  headquarters  in  Stamford,  CT,  as 
director  of  international  operations,  finan- 
cial planning  and  control  in  1973.  In  1974, 
he  was  appointed  director  of  international 
staff. 

Allaire  returned  to  London  as  chief  staff 


officer  and  executive  director  for  Rank 
Xerox  in  1975.  Later,  he  was  named  man- 
aging director  of  Rank  Xerox. 

As  managing  director  of  Xerox  in 
England,  Allaire  was  responsible  for  com- 
pany operations  in  80  countries  stretching 
from  Ireland  to  New  Zealand,  from  South 
Africa  to  Finland.  He  says  he  enjoyed 
"the  greater  management  challenge"  of 
dealing  with  people  in  the  Eastern  Hemi- 
sphere and  his  adjustment  to  life  as  a  resi- 
dent of  the  United  Kingdom. 

"I  like  working  with  different  people," 
he  continues.  "Besides  the  normal  busi- 
ness problems,  you  have  different  cul- 
tures, laws  and  currencies." 

Allaire  took  over  the  leadership  of  Rank 
Xerox  when  it  was  striving  to  get  back  the 
market  for  lower-cost  machines,  a  market 
in  which  Japanese  competitors  had  made 
great  inroads.  With  his  guidance,  Rank 
Xerox  developed  new  merchandising  tech- 
niques. In  March  1983,  London's  Lyric 
Theatre  reverberated  to  a  spectacular 
audio-visual  show  complete  with  flashing 
lights,  powerful  music  and  swirling  stage 


smoke.  The  audience  came  from  all  over 
Europe. 

Said  London's  Financial  Times,  "Even 
cynical  City  analysts  caught  themselves 
clapping  the  'stars'  of  the  show,  a  new 
range  of  photocopiers  from  Rank  Xerox.  It 
was  an  astounding  performance,  a  major 
piece  of  entertainment." 

Debuting  at  the  show  was  the  Xerox  "  10 
Series,"  which  is  aimed  directly  at  the 
most  competitive  copier  market— low-  and 
medium-speed  machines,  where  the  Japa- 
nese have  made  such  market  gains. 

"The  10  Series  is  a  real  breakthrough," 
Allaire  reported  during  the  London  extrav- 
aganza. "The  copiers  are  much  more 
sophisticated,  with  considerable  use  of 
microelectronics.  This  gives  them  much 
better  copy  quality  and  reliability." 

After  eight  years  of  progress  in  London, 
in  July  1983  Allaire  was  brought  back  to 
Xerox  headquarters  in  Stamford,  CT,  and 
named  senior  vice  president  and  chief  staff 
officer.  In  his  new  role,  he  is  responsible 
for  all  staff  functions  at  corporate  head- 
quarters, including  strategy,  planning, 
finance  and  control,  personnel,  technol- 
ogy, and  information  systems. 

He  explains,  "It's  a  fascinating  opportu- 
nity to  participate  in  the  worldwide  devel- 
opment of  Xerox  as  it  moves  from  a  copier 
company  to  a  full-line  office  automation 
company."  His  engineering  background 
serves  him  well  in  the  new  area  of  sophis- 
ticated electronics,  including  professional 
workstations,  electronic  printers,  elec- 
tronic typewriters  and  fully  interconnected 
systems  via  local  area  networks. 

Paul  Allaire's  past  record  and  back- 
ground indicate  that  he  knows  how  to 
move  Xerox  successfully  into  this  exciting 
new  area.  The  man  now  holding  the  reins 
at  Xerox  knows  well  how  to  get  his  com- 
pany into  the  fast  lane— and  how  to  keep  it 
there. 


Allaire  (left)  visiting  WPI's  Manufacturing  Engineering  Applications  Center  with  ME  AC 
Technical  Director  David  Asmus. 


16       WPI  JOURNAL 


Tooling 

Up  for  the 

Computer 

Generation 

The  widening  role  of  computers  in  science 

and  engineering  is  hastening  dramatic 

changes  in  how  we  educate  future  practitioners 

in  these  fields.  Yet  at  WPI,  as  elsewhere, 

the  best  way  to  do  this  may  not  be  as 

obvious  as  it  appears  at  first  blush. 

By  Evelyn  Herwitz 


Sitting  at  his  AT&T  personal  com- 
puter. Assistant  Professor  of  Electri- 
cal Engineering  David  Cyganski  '75 
types  a  few  commands.  For  a  split  second, 
the  CRT  goes  blank.  Then,  starting  in  the 
bottom  left-hand  comer,  a  series  of  num- 
bers appears  on  the  screen,  identifying  the 
points  in  a  matrix. 

"Now,  let's  create  a  simple  circuit." 
says  Cyganski.  He  types  a  few  more 
instructions,  and  the  computer  traces  a 
schematic  diagram  linking  four  points  in  a 
rudimentary  closed  circuit.  More  ke\- 
board  strokes,  and  the  screen  again  goes 
blank,  this  time  filling  with  a  graph  of  cir- 
cuit test  results. 

"We're  developing  a  toolbox— one  that 
makes  the  mechanics  of  electrical  engi- 
neering very  simple."  explains  Cyganski. 
"That  enables  us  to  dwell  on  principles 


and  do  some  very  deep  teaching."  Work- 
ing with  National  Science  Foundation 
funding  to  develop  computer  graphics 
software  for  electrical  engineering 
courses.  Cyganski  and  several  other  EE 
faculty  are  just  a  few  members  of  the  WPI 
community  finding  innovative  ways  to 
integrate  computers  into  the  curriculum. 

Over  in  Higgins  Laboratories' 
"APTLAB."  which  "houses  20  AT&T  PC 
and  18  Apple  desk-top  computers.  Associ- 
ate Professor  of  Mechanical  Engineering 
Robert  L.  Norton  is  teaching  students  the 
basics  underlying  CAD  (computer-aided 
design)  systems. 

"The  problem  involves  taking  three- 
dimensional  information  and  putting  it  on 
a  two-dimensional  screen."  says  Norton. 
Assignments  range  from  designing  a  pro- 
gram that  rotates  a  predefined  shape  on  the 


computer  screen  to  student-designed  proj- 
ects. One.  called  "The  Pilot's  Nightmare." 
leads  the  viewer  through  successive, 
pilot "s-e>e  views  of  a  runway  as  a  plane 
approaches  and  then  misses  its  target. 

"In  the  past."  ?>a>:>  Norton,  "the  only 
way  we  could  do  these  manipulations  was 
with  drafting  tools.  The  drawings  would 
take  you  three  hours."  Now.  swapping  T- 
squares  for  mathematical  algorithms.  Nor- 
ton says,  students  can  achieve  the  same 
results  in  a  fraction  of  the  time.  "It  gives 
them  a  good  sense  of  the  limitations  and 
uses  of  CAD  systems." 

In  the  Computer  Science  Department's 
Human  Computer  Interaction  Lab.  one  of 
several  specialized  department  laborato- 
ries, students  work  with  computerized 
mini-robot  arms,  graphics  terminals,  and 
voice  input  and  output  apparatus.  Worth 


MAY  1985        V 


30.000,  each  workstation  consists 
of  one  of  six  Digital  Equipment  Corpora- 
tion (DEC)  PDP  11 /23s  and  a  variety  of 
special  interface  devices.  Two  VAXSta- 
tions— high  performance  graphics  com- 
puters—are valued  at  $15,000  apiece. 
Much  of  the  equipment  was  acquired  from 
DEC  as  part  of  an  educational  research 
grant. 

"These  are  not  simple,  plain-vanilla  set- 
ups." says  Mark  R.  Ohlson,  Assistant 
Professor  of  Computer  Science.  "The 
computer  stations  are  geared  to  experi- 
mentation, so  the  students  can  find  ways  to 
interface  with  non-standard  devices." 
Ohlson  says  lab  use  ranges  from  course- 
work  in  real  time  programming  to  special 
projects,  such  as  a  blind  student's  experi- 
ments with  digital  sound  recording  and 
playback. 

For  those  just  learning  to  program,  the 
Computer  Science  Department  operates  a 
separate  lab  equipped  with  an  IBM  Series  I 
and  30  IBM  PCs,  as  well  as  a  Data  Gen- 
eral MV8000  and  24  time-sharing  termi- 
nals. One  of  a  half-dozen  recipients 
nationally  of  an  IBM  grant,  the  department 
has  developed  specialized  software  to  cre- 
ate a  controlled  lab  environment.  "The 
students  can  see  exactly  what  happens  in 
the  machine  for  each  command,"  says 
department  head  Professor  T.C.  Ting. 

But  computers  at  WPI  are  not  found 
only  in  the  computer  science  or  engineer- 
ing departments. 

Last  term.  Professor  of  English  Lance 
E.  Schachterle  required  students  in  his 
writing  course  to  do  all  their  work  on  word 
processors.  Two  other  Humanities  Depart- 
ment faculty  members.  Professor  of  His- 
tory John  F.  Zeugner  and  Associate  Pro- 
fessor of  History  Patrick  P.  Dunn  are 
developing  an  international  diplomacy 
simulation,  while  German  lecturer  Liese- 
lotte  Z.  Anderson  is  working  on  an  inter- 
active program  that  will  teach  German. 
And  Associate  Professor  of  History  James 
P.  Hanlan  is  developing  a  data  base  using 
the  U.S.  Census  for  his  urban  history 
course. 

Computers  are  nothing  new  to  WPI, 
which  has  had  mainframe  facilities 
for  several  decades.  What  is  new  is 
the  personal  computer,  and  the  search  for 
ways  to  further  student  education  using 
this  powerful  teaching  tool.  As  the  micro- 
computer revolutionizes  higher  education 
throughout  the  country,  WPI  is  grappling 
with  a  new  challenge:  how  to  "computer- 
ize the  campus." 

"It's  clear  that  engineering  colleges  in 
particular  will  be  expecting  graduates  to 


be  computer  literate,"  says  Dean  of  Aca- 
demic Computing  Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr. 
'45.  "The  question  is,  how  do  you  get  to 
that  point?" 

To  begin  to  answer  that  question,  sev- 
eral members  of  the  WPI  community  spent 
the  past  two  years  on  a  Computer  Advi- 
sory Committee  (CAC),  drafting  a  plan 
for  developing  a  comprehensive  informa- 
tion resource  on  campus— or,  exploiting 
the  power  of  the  computer  at  WPI  far  more 
than  ever  before. 

Among  the  CAC's  recommendations, 
endorsed  by  faculty  members  last  Febru- 
ary, were  the  need  to  develop  a  campus- 
wide  network  of  compatible  computers, 
and  to  make  microcomputing  workstations 
available  to  virtually  every  student  and 
faculty  member— all  within  five  years. 
Kennedy  estimates  the  cost  of  implement- 
ing the  plan  to  be  $10  to  $15  million. 

"We  used  to  think  that,  if  we  had 
enough  time-sharing  terminals  around  the 
campus,  that  would  be  sufficient.  But  to 
stay  with  the  trend  of  engineering  col- 
leges, we  decided  to  go  the  PC  route," 
says  Kennedy,  a  professor  of  Electrical 


Engineering  whose  newly  created  office 
was  set  up  last  summer  with  a  $200,000 
grant  from  the  George  I.  Alden  Trust. 

"We  want  to  make  sure  all  students  have 
ready  access  to  computers,"  he  continues. 
"If  the  students  have  the  PCs  where  they 
live,  the  great  benefit  is  that,  at  the  time 
they  have  the  motivation  to  use  the  com- 
puter, it's  there." 

For  students  to  be  able  to  use  their  PCs 
in  their  dorms,  however,  several  things 
have  to  happen.  First,  they  need  the 
microcomputer  itself,  as  well  as  software 
to  use  and  course  work  to  do.  Second,  they 
need  a  system  to  plug  into. 

As  to  the  latter  issue,  WPI  already  has 
the  beginnings  of  a  campus-wide  computer 
network.  A  wide-band,  9600-baud  Virtual 
Terminal  Network  (VTN)  connects  sev- 
eral VAX  and  numerous  PDP-11  mini- 
computers, a  Data  General  MV8000,  a 
Computervision  CAD  system,  and  two 
mainframe  computers  (a  UNIVAC  90/60 
and  a  DEC  2060)  in  the  Worcester  Area 
College  Computation  Center  (WACCC). 

Fashioned  by  WPI  faculty  and  students, 
the  VTN  enables  users  to  access  different 


18       WPI  JOURNAL 


An  educational  research  grant  from  Digi- 
tal Equipment  Corporation  enabled  the 
Computer  Science  Department  to  develop 
four  computer  labs,  like  the  one  at  left,  all 
tied  in  to  the  VAX  1 1/750  minicomputers, 
shown  in  the  background.  This  lab  focuses 
on  human-computer  interaction.  Chemis- 
try is  an  area  that  has  made  significant 
progress  recently  in  introducing  com- 
puters to  the  curriculum  (above). 

machines  with  a  range  of  software  and 
computing  power  from  several  terminal 
clusters  around  campus.  "Handshakes 
between  computers— that's  what  we 
wanted  the  VTN  to  do,  and  that's  what  it 
seems  to  be  doing,"  says  WACCC  director 
James  J.  Jackson,  Jr. 

While  the  VTN  is  working  well  enough, 
however,  it  is  considered  only  a  first  step. 
"We  couldn't  afford  to  buy  a  network  so 
we  built  our  own,"  says  Jackson.  "They 
bought  the  equipment  from  hobby  kits." 

"The  VTN  is  a  tentative  solution  that 
won't  solve  the  long-term  problem," 
agrees  Professor  T.C.  Ting,  a  CAC  mem- 
ber along  with  Jackson.  "Our  goal  is  for 
each  campus  building  to  have  a  local  net- 
work with  some  computer  service,  includ- 
ing a  large  storage  device  and  printing 
facility,  to  make  it  mostly  self-sufficient." 
Ting  says  student  and  faculty  personal 
computers  would  plug  into  each  building's 
local  network,  so  the  user  could  also 
access  more  powerful  machines  across 
campus. 

"Each  local  network  would  have  a  gate- 
way to  a  campus-wide,  wide-band  net- 


work linking  all  buildings,"  says  Ting. 
"The  mainframe  would  be  the  backbone 
of  the  system  for  communications  and 
large,  sophisticated  operations  requiring 
more  memory.  It  would  also  connect  to  a 
large  central  gateway  hooking  up  to  net- 
works outside  of  WPI,  like  Telenet." 

Currently,  Computer  Science  is  the  only 
department  on  campus  to  have  a  local  net- 
work in  place.  Two  narrow-band,  10- 
megabyte  ethernets  link  three  VAX  11/ 
750s  with  14  PDP  lis,  supporting  a 
variety  of  computer  applications  labs  and 
department  office  automation  and 
research. 

Dean  Kennedy  estimates  the  cost  of 
installing  a  permanent,  campus-wide  net- 
work to  be  in  the  millions.  Although  funds 
have  yet  to  be  identified,  current  plans  call 
for  the  network  to  be  in  place  within  three 
years. 

Even  as  the  groundwork  is  laid  for  a 
comprehensive  computer  network, 
however,  the  college  is  already  mov- 
ing on  the  companion  issue:  how  to  equip 
students  and  faculty  with  their  own  per- 
sonal computers— and  ensure  that  the 
machines  speak  the  same  language. 

"We  have  to  have  the  same  or  compati- 
ble equipment  across  campus  to  eliminate 
the  'Tower  of  Babel'  problem,"  says  ME's 
Norton,  another  CAC  member. 

Following  the  CAC's  recommendations, 
a  Computer  Selection  Committee  (includ- 
ing Norton)  spent  five  months  last  year 
searching  for  what  has  now  been  identified 
as  the  campus  standard:  the  AT&T  6300 


PC.  Chosen  for  its  compatibility  with  the 
IBM  PC,  the  AT&T  6300  was  also 
favored  for  its  high  operating  speed  and 
quality  graphics,  plus  built-in  standard 
features. 

To  enable  faculty  to  begin  developing 
software  programs  and  adapt  curricula  to 
microcomputers,  WPI  has  so  far  acquired 
140  AT&Ts.  Over  half  the  machines  have 
been  resold  at  a  discount  or  put  on  loan  to 
faculty,  while  30  PCs  have  been  placed  in 
two  student  computer  labs.  In  addition, 
each  department  office  has  one  PC,  and  a 
small  number  have  been  sold  to  students. 

But  a  larger  problem  remains:  how  and 
when  to  provide  PCs  for  all  WPI  students. 
While  much  of  the  Institute's  computer 
equipment  has  been  donated  by  manufac- 
turers, in  this  case  AT&T  is  discounting 
the  purchase  price  to  just  over  $2,000  per 
machine. 

Faced  with  the  problem  of  who  pays  for 
PCs,  some  institutions,  like  Clarkson  Uni- 
versity, have  given  freshmen  their  own 
Zenith- 100s,  covering  the  cost  through 
tuition  increases.  Others,  like  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute,  require  an  outright 
student  purchase  of  an  IBM  PC  or  PCjr. 
By  contrast,  neither  Carnegie-Mellon 
University  nor  the  Massachusetts  Institute 
of  Technology  make  their  students  pur- 
chase PCs  because  administrators  feel  the 
right  machine  isn't  yet  on  the  market. 

Dean  Kennedy  anticipates  two  possible 
scenarios  for  WPI's  PC  purchases.  "We 
could  go  with  the  Clarkson  model,  where 
the  school  keeps  ownership  of  the 
machine,  which  is  supplied  to  the  student 
as  part  of  an  increased  tuition  fee,"  he 
says.  "Over  four  years  the  PC  would  be 
essentially  paid  for  and  the  student  could 
purchase  it  for  a  nominal  fee." 

The  other  alternative,  he  says,  is  for  stu- 
dents to  make  a  down  payment  on  the  PC 
when  they  arrive  as  freshmen,  and  to  pay 
off  the  balance  over  the  course  of  four 
years.  In  either  case,  he  expects  students 
will  need  to  own  computers  by  the  fall  of 
1986.  By  that  time,  Kennedy  anticipates 
enough  courses  will  have  been  modified  to 
incorporate  microcomputers  as  teaching 
tools. 

For  William  Supernor  '87,  an  ME  and 
design  major,  requiring  students  to  own 
PCs  is  a  necessary,  albeit  expensive  step. 

"I  think  it's  about  time,"  says  Supernor, 
who  is  head  monitor  in  the  APTLAB.  "I 
would  like  far  better  to  have  a  computer  in 
my  room  than  to  have  to  come  here  and 
use  it.  I  know  if  I  had  a  computer,  I  could 
do  so  much  more."  Cost  is  the  major 
obstacle  keeping  Supernor  from  buying 
one  of  the  AT&Ts  today.  "Two  thousand 


MAY  1985        19 


dollars  is  a  lot  of  money,"  he  says.  "It 
would  be  nice  if  the  cost  was  subsidized  by 
the  school  or  spread  out  over  four  years." 

Opinions  vary  among  faculty  and  staff 
members  as  to  whether  students  should 
have  to  buy  the  PCs.  "I  hope  it  doesn't 
happen,  but  I  expect  it  will,"  says 
WACCC  director  Jim  Jackson.  "I  think 
it's  wrong  to  shift  the  financial  responsibil- 
ity from  the  school  to  the  students.  Tuition 
is  high  enough  now." 

While  he  favors  the  use  of  PCs,  Profes- 
sor Norton  is  also  concerned  about  how 
the  proposed  requirement  would  affect  stu- 
dents' wallets  as  well  as  the  curriculum. 
"It  makes  a  lot  more  sense  to  introduce 
computers  at  the  higher  levels,  when  stu- 
dents know  the  paper  and  pencil  funda- 
mentals," says  Norton.  But,  he  says,  that 
would  give  them  only  two  years  to  pay  for 
the  machines,  which  could  be  prohibitive 
for  some.  If  students  are  required  to  buy 
PCs  as  freshmen,  Norton  hopes  that 
underclassmen  would  use  the  microcom- 
puters primarily  for  word-processing.  That 
way,  he  says,  they  would  still  have  four 
years  to  pay  for  the  machines  instead  of 
only  two,  without  sacrificing  mastery  of 
basic  skills. 

There  is  also  the  issue  of  who  should 
bear  the  cost  of  rapidly  changing  technol- 

Professor  Owen  W.  Kennedy,  Jr.  '45, 
Dean  of  Academic  Advising  (right):  "The 
computer  plan  we  envision  for  WPI  may 
cost  upwards  of  $15  million."  Manage- 
ment Associate  Professor  Dieter  Klein,  a 
CAC member  (bottom  right),  works  to 
help  industry  integrate  computer  technol- 
ogy with  its  manufacturing  operations. 
The  APTLAB,  where  some  40  Apple  and 
AT&T  personal  computers  are  in  almost 
constant  use  (below). 


ogy.  "It's  like  trying  to  shoot  a  moving 
target,"  says  Professor  Ting.  "I  want  to 
see  WPI  be  a  leader  in  the  long  term,  not 
the  short  term.  We  don't  want  students  to 
buy  a  PC  that  has  a  minimum  capability 
and  doesn't  suitably  meet  the  needs  of 
engineering  students.  Other  schools  are 
requiring  students  to  buy  PCs,"  he  points 
out.  "But  what  happens?  Are  we  going  to 
continue  to  upgrade  the  campus  system  or 
pass  the  buck  to  the  students?" 

Requiring  students  to  purchase  equip- 
ment that  may  become  obsolete  before 
they  graduate  is  also  a  real  concern  for 
CAC  chairman  Kennedy.  But  he  thinks 
that  the  lost  opportunities  resulting  from 
waiting  for  the  perfect  machine  to  come 
along  are  even  greater.  "If  you  wait  a  little 
longer,  you  may  get  a  better  deal,  but  you 
lose  a  year  learning  to  use  the  microcom- 
puter," he  says. 


Associate  Professor  of  History  Jim 
Hanlan  thinks  the  best  answer  may  be 
simply  to  let  the  market  regulate  itself. 
"Twenty  years  ago  everyone  was  walking 
around  with  slide  rules,"  says  Hanlan. 
"Today,  you  can't  imagine  a  WPI  student 
without  a  calculator,  but  we  don't  require 
them  to  buy  calculators.  Eventually,  stu- 
dents will  want  to  have  PCs,  and  it  won't 
have  to  be  a  requirement." 

However  the  machines  are  eventually 
acquired,  there  remains  the  cost  of  soft- 
ware and  maintenance. 

"The  popular  Lotus  software  package  at 
the  deepest  educational  discount  still  costs 
about  $200  a  copy,"  says  Associate  Pro- 
fessor of  Management  Dieter  Klein,  also  a 
CAC  member.  "It  would  cost  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  $1,000  per  student  just  for 
software." 

"Up  to  now,  software  companies  have 
not  been  sympathetic  to  the  problems  fac- 
ing colleges,"  agrees  Kennedy.  "They  set 
high  prices  and  are  reluctant  to  give  good 
educational  discounts."  But  he  is  encour- 
aged by  pricing  decisions  of  vendors  such 
as  Borland  International,  whose  TURBO 
Pascal  sells  for  close  to  50  percent  un- 
der list  price  in  the  campus  bookstore. 
"Things  will  get  better  as  more  and  more 
vendors  follow  suit,"  he  says. 

As  for  maintenance,  Kennedy  has  set  up 
a  shop  on  campus.  "We  will  handle  war- 
ranty and  non- warranty  jobs,"  he  says. 
"Our  goal  is  to  be  able  to  repair  PCs 
within  a  day."  Users  will  pay  for  replace- 
ment parts  and  labor,  but  Kennedy  says  the 
cost  will  depend  on  how  fully  the  college 
decides  to  underwrite  the  operation. 

Even  as  the  details  of  implementing 
the  CAC  Master  Plan  are  debated, 
however,  the  WPI  community  is  in 
agreement  that  the  Institute  is  moving  in 
the  right  direction. 

"We  can't  expect  it  to  happen  over- 
night," says  Professor  Hanlan.  "If  it  did, 
I'd  be  afraid  we  had  moved  too  hastily.  I 
don't  want  us  to  just  grab  a  gimmick,  but 
rather  to  use  the  personal  computer  in  a 
way  that  is  pedagogically  significant." 

And  if  all  goes  according  to  plan,  that's 
exactly  what  will  happen  at  WPI.  "Five 
years  from  now,  I  think  you'll  see  the 
usual  classroom  scene,  except  there  will 
be  more  specialized  classrooms  equipped 
with  PCs  at  each  desk  and  a  large  screen  in 
front,"  speculates  David  Cyganski.  "We'll 
be  teaching  the  same  material— we'll  just 
have  better  tools  to  use." 

Evelyn  Herwitz  is  a  freelance  writer  living 
in  Worcester. 


20       WPI  JOURNAL 


The  microcomputer  is  having  a  macro  effect  on  higher  education* 
What's  a  college  to  do?  There's  no  one  right  answer — yet. 

By  Judith  Axler  Turner 


It's  a  given:  The  computer,  that  box 
of  silicon  and  plastic,  is  changing 
the  way  we  gather,  process,  and 
store  information.  And  because  col- 
leges and  universities  are  the  prime 
information  creators  and  vendors  in 
this  information  age,  the  computer 
revolution  is  nowhere  felt  more 
strongly  than  on  the  nation's  cam- 
puses. 

Computers  at  college  are  nothing 
new.  The  first  electronic  digital  com- 
puter, ENIAC,  made  its  home  on  two 
floors  of  the  Moor  School  of  Electri- 
cal Engineering  at  the  University  of 
Pennsylvania  in  1939.  Its  electrome- 
chanical predecessor,  the  MARK  I, 
was  designed  at  Harvard  University  a 
few  years  earlier.  Today  analysts  fig- 
ure that  between  a  quarter  and  a  half 
of  all  computers  are  at  colleges  and  universities. 

Until  a  few  years  ago,  most  computers  on  cam- 
pus were  available  only  to  researchers  and  com- 
puter-science or  engineering  students  learning  how 
to  program.  Then  the  microcomputer  was 
invented,  and  the  revolution  began. 

The  microcomputer,  also  known  as  the  personal 
computer,  is  distinguishable  by  its  affordability. 
Most  cost  under  $5,000  for  an  entire  system:  the 
computer  itself,  the  screen  that  displays  the  words 
or  graphics,  the  keyboard,  the  disk  drives  that 
allow  information  stored  on  magnetic  disks  to  be 
loaded  into  the  computer,  and  even  a  printer  to 
make  what  computerists  like  to  call  a  "hard  copy." 

The  microcomputer  is  an  outstanding  teaching 
and  learning  machine.  It  collects,  stores,  mas- 
sages, analyzes,  rearranges,  and  serves  up  infor- 
mation, the  currency  of  education.  Its  usefulness 
in  higher  education  is  such  that  no  one  blinked 
when  Talmis,  a  computer-industry  research  firm, 
predicted  last  spring  that  by  1987  four  million  col- 
lege students— one  third  of  the  nation's  undergrad- 
uates—would own  microcomputers,  and  colleges 
and  universities  would  own  another  half  million. 

"In  many  ways,  the  microcomputer  revolution 
is  an  access  revolution,"  says  Gary  Judd,  vice  pro- 
vost and  dean  of  the  graduate  school  at  Rensselaer 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Computers  have  been 
around  for  five  decades,  but  the  microcomputer 
means  a  student  can  have  this  wonderous  informa- 
tion machine  on  her  desk,  doing  her  work.  The 
revolution  is  one  of  expectations:  students  expect 


to  need  to  know  how  to  use  a  com- 
puter, expect  to  be  able  to  use  one, 
expect  to  have  one  to  use. 

They  are  applying  in  large  numbers 
to  be  computer-science  majors, 
stretching  the  ability  of  most  com- 
puter-science departments  to  handle 
them.  Many  institutions,  including 
the  Massachusetts  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology, have  cut  off  computer-sci- 
ence enrollments.  Others  require 
computer-science  majors  to  maintain 
higher  grade-point  averages  than  stu- 
dents in  other  fields.  Some  universi- 
ties require  computer-science  majors 
to  take  and  pass  extremely  difficult 
courses  designed  to  weed  out  the  less 
able. 

But  the  deterrents  aren't  working. 
For  every  student  thwarted  in  his 
attempt  to  major  in  computer  science,  others  are 
crowding  courses  that  give  them  an  account  on  the 
central  computer  or  teach  them  to  use  computers- 
programming  courses  and  courses  in  statistics, 
business,  and  engineering.  Students  and  profes- 
sors are  asking  for,  and  often  getting,  the  right  to 
use  the  university's  computing  facilities  for 
courses  that  once  were  strictly  low-tech— history 
and  English  courses,  for  instance. 

Academe  is  not  unhappy  with  this  revolution. 
Administrators  are  eager  to  meet  student  demands 
for  computing  power,  to  guarantee  that  graduates 
of  all  institutions— from  "Star  Wars"  computer- 
intensive  institutions  like  MIT,  Carnegie-Mellon 
University,  and  Stanford  University,  to  small  col- 
leges still  trying  to  make  do  with  three  computers 
in  the  engineering  department— are  sufficiently 
familiar  with  this  new  tool  to  make  it  work  for 
them.  The  challenge  is  for  the  colleges  to  find  a 
way  to  integrate  the  computer  into  campus  life. 

About  eight  years  ago,  Rensselaer  Polytechnic 
Institute  decided  to  expand  and  upgrade  its  com- 
puting facilities.  It  was  time  to  move  from  batch 
computing  to  a  distributed  system.  No  longer  was 
all  computing  to  be  done  by  professionals  at  a 
central  location.  Now  professors,  students,  and 
staff  members  would  be  able  to  interact  with  the 
computers  directly,  from  terminals  in  dormitories, 
the  library,  and  the  computer  center. 

"We  expected  the  transition  would  take  five  or 
six  years,"  says  RPI's  Judd.  "But  it  happened 
almost  overnight."  RPI  found  what  other  institu- 


MAY  1985       1 


tions  have  discovered  since:  The  demand  for  com- 
puting cannot  be  overestimated.  There  are  always 
people  ready  to  take  advantage  of  computing 
power. 

There  is,  of  course,  a  darker  side  to  the  eager- 
ness to  use  computers,  and  that  is  the  cost. 
Because  a  little  computing  seems  to  fuel  the  fires, 
setting  up  demands  for  more,  many  institutions 
feel  pressured. 

"There  is  a  tendency  to  look  at  what  is  not 
done,"  says  Linda  Eshleman,  associate  professor 
of  mathematics  and  computer  science,  and  direc- 
tor of  academic  computing  at  Western  Maryland 
College. 

Next  fall  Western  Maryland  plans  to  open  a 
word-processing  laboratory,  filled  with  microcom- 
puters, for  use  by  students  in  English  classes.  Sci- 
ence students  are  already  using  microcomputers  in 
their  laboratories,  and  social  science  students  use 
the  terminals  to  the  large  mainframe  computer  to 
do  their  statistical  studies.  Eshelman  says  this  is 
not  enough:  "I  wish  there  were  more  computers." 

Computers,  and  everything  that  goes  with  them, 
cost  money,  big  money.  The  Stevens  Institute  of 
Technology,  after  committing  millions  of  dollars 
to  instituting  a  computer-purchase  requirement  for 
alls  its  freshmen  in  1983,  found  it  had  another  big 
expense  on  its  hands.  All  the  dormitory  rooms  had 
to  be  remodeled.  Student  desks  were  not  big 
enough  to  hold  the  computer  the  college  had  cho- 
sen, and  there  was  not  enough  floor  space  in  the 
room  to  put  in  bigger  desks.  Stevens  ended  up 
spending  $500,000  to  remodel  those  rooms, 
replacing  the  twin  beds  with  bunk  beds,  and  build- 
ing in  new,  big,  sturdy  desks. 

Even  if  the  dormitories  do  not  have  to  be  remod- 
eled, computing  is  expensive.  (There  are  some 
ways  to  lessen  the  costs:  For  example,  when 
Hartwick  College  did  a  general  re-wiring  of  its 
campus  five  years  ago,  it  put  in  the  cables  needed 
for  an  eventual  campus- wide  computer  network.) 
Franklin  and  Marshall  College  president  James  L. 
Powell  thinks  that  within  a  few  years  all  colleges 
and  universities  will  have  to  spend  on  computing 
the  same  percentage  of  the  budget  they  now  spend 
on  libraries— between  5  and  7  percent,  he  says. 

Some  think  Powell's  figures  are  low.  Comput- 
ing does  not  start  and  end  with  the  provision  of 
computers  for  academic  and  administrative  work, 
says  Vinod  Chachra,  vice  president  for  computers 
and  information  systems  at  Virginia  Polytechnic 
Institute  and  State  University.  Computers  link 
information  delivery  systems,  including  tele- 
phones, the  library,  the  printing  and  reproduction 
center,  as  well  as  academic  and  administrative 
computing.  The  expanded  province  of  computing, 
says  Chachra,  can  account  for  more  than  10  per- 
cent of  an  institution's  annual  budget. 

Some  colleges  and  universities  are  trying  to 

Judith  Axler  Turner,  an  assistant  editor  at  The 
Chronicle  of  Higher  Education,  often  writes  about 
the  impact  of  computers  on  campus. 


II       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Newspapers  seem 
filled  with  stories 
of  freshmen  being 
given  a  personal 
computer  to  take 
back  to  the  dorm. 

But  if  this  is  a 

trend,  it  has  yet  to 

catch  on. 


lighten  the  budget  load  by  putting  some  of  the 
costs  directly  on  the  students.  The  most  popular 
method  is  to  require  or  strongly  urge  students  to 
buy  their  own  computers. 

Newspapers  seem  to  be  filled  with  stories  of 
freshmen  registering  for  classes  and  being  given  a 
personal  computer  to  take  back  to  the  dorm.  But  if 
this  is  a  trend,  it  has  yet  to  catch  on.  Right  now 
fewer  than  a  dozen  colleges  and  universities  give 
students  their  own  computer,  or  require  students  to 
buy  one.  According  to  The  Chronicle  of  Higher 
Education,  those  institutions  currently  requiring 
incoming  students  to  have  computers  are  Clarkson 
University,  Dallas  Baptist  College,  Drew  Univer- 
sity, Drexel  University,  the  University  of  Michi- 
gan's college  of  engineering,  the  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute of  New  York,  Stevens  Institute  of 
Technology,  the  South  Dakota  School  of  Mines, 
and  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute  and  State  Uni- 
versity's college  of  engineering. 

David  Bray,  dean  of  Clarkson  University,  says 
there  is  no  way  the  university  could  have  afforded 
to  provide  so  much  computing  power  if  the  stu- 
dents had  not  paid  for  it  directly.  Other  institutions 
say  requiring  students  to  buy  computers  still  cost 
the  college  money.  Dallas  Baptist  University, 
Drew,  and  Virginia  Tech  say  they  had  to  lay  out  at 
least  a  million  dollars  each  to  implement  the  com- 
puter requirement. 

Franklin  and  Marshall  College  seriously  consid- 
ered requiring  students  to  buy  computers  begin- 
ning next  fall,  but  after  months  of  discussion  the 
administration  decided  to  put  off  the  requirement 
for  a  few  years.  Instead,  F&M  freshmen  will  be 
strongly  urged  to  buy  the  Apple  Macintosh  com- 
puter, a  suggestion  sweetened  by  a  special  $1,340 
price  on  the  $2,300  computer. 

One  reason  freshmen  are  not  being  required  to 
buy  their  computers  is  because  so  many  of  them— 
about  20  percent,  according  to  a  survey  at  the  col- 
lege— come  to  F&M  with  computers,  and  admin- 
istration officials  believe  that  most  of  the  rest  will 
decide  to  buy  computers  when  they  get  to  Lancas- 
ter. To  encourage  them  to  buy  the  Macintosh, 
F&M  sent  a  pamphlet  to  all  prospective  appli- 
cants, telling  them  of  the  computer's  place  at 
F&M— and  about  the  discount  price. 

President  Powell  does  not  think  many  students 
will  turn  down  the  opportunity  to  purchase  a  com- 
puter at  a  discount.  "It  is  a  rare  student  who 
doesn't  have  a  stereo  or  a  $500  typewriter,"  he 
says.  And  he  strongly  believes  that  it  is  necessary 
to  have  a  single  computer  for  everyone  so  software 
can  be  developed  and  exchanged  easily,  and  stu- 
dents and  faculty  members  can  help  one  another 
when  problems  arise.  "Instead  of  letting  a  weed 
patch  grow,"  he  says,  "we  are  turning  it  into  a 
garden  and  letting  it  flourish." 

Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute  considered  a 
computer  requirement,  but  decided  against  it 
because  students  are  well  served  by  what  Vice 
Provost  Judd  calls  "a  rich  and  accessible  public 
system"  in  its  campus  network.  A  network  links 


computers  and  terminals;  a  student  can  use  RPI's 
large  mainframe  or  minicomputers  from  terminals 
or  microcomputers  all  around  the  campus. 

Like  other  schools  with  powerful  networks, 
such  as  MIT,  Stanford,  and  Dartmouth  College, 
RPI  is  more  concerned  about  the  "mix"— the  right 
combination  of  microcomputers,  minicomputers, 
and  mainframe  computers— than  about  providing 
computing  power.  While  personal  microcomputers 
might  make  life  somewhat  easier  for  students 
(RPI's  engineering  school  is  considering  requiring 
purchase  for  this  reason),  Judd  does  not  want  to 
rely  on  them.  "The  personal  computer  can  only  go 
so  far,"  he  says.  "You  need  more  powerful  com- 
puters for  different  jobs." 

Judd  is  not  concerned  that  the  increasing  num- 
bers of  computers  purchased  by  faculty  members 
and  students  will  introduce  Powell's  "weed  patch" 
of  incompatibility.  "People  select  a  useful  solu- 
tion," Judd  says.  "Even  though  we  have  not  yet 
taken  a  formal  position,  a  majority  of  the  pur- 
chases are  the  same.  There  seems  to  be  a  common 
wisdom."  Most  of  the  purchasers  are  buying  IBM 
or  IBM-compatible  machines,  or  taking  the  Mac- 
intosh route,  he  says.  Either  one  will  work  with 
the  powerful  RPI  campus  computer  network. 

But  not  every  school  likes  the  network,  or  thinks 
it  answers  all  problems.  Dartmouth  College, 
where  the  first  campus  network  was  created  in  the 
1950s,  has  been  moving  toward  microcomputers. 
Last  year  Dartmouth  offered  its  students  a  60-per- 
cent discount  on  Macintosh  computers,  with  the 
option  of  using  them  as  a  terminal  to  the  campus 
network.  About  80  percent  of  the  freshmen  and  50 
percent  of  the  sophomores,  juniors,  and  seniors 
have  already  bought  Macintoshes,  says  William 
Y.  Arms,  vice  provost  for  computing  and  planning 
at  Dartmouth. 

One  college  that  plans  to  require  incoming 
freshmen  to  buy  computers  is  Worcester  Polytech- 
nic Institute.  WPI  will  require  freshmen  to  buy  the 
AT&T  6300  computer  beginning  in  1986— if  the 
college  is  ready  by  then. 

"We  don't  want  to  require  it  until  we  are  sure 
students  will  use  the  personal  computers  in  a  sig- 
nificant number  of  courses,"  says  Owen  W.  Ken- 
nedy, WPI's  dean  of  academic  computing.  The 
goal,  he  says,  is  to  have  students  "computer  flu- 
ent" when  they  graduate— comfortable  with  using 
the  computer  to  solve  problems.  If  we  work  the 
computer  into  a  significant  number  of  courses  and 
use  it  in  all  different  contexts,  students  will 
become  computer  fluent,  using  the  computer  with- 
out having  to  think  about  it,"  he  says.  To  make  the 
purchase  worthwhile,  Kennedy  estimates,  students 
need  to  use  computers  in  about  half  their  courses. 


M: 
i 


Iost  commercial  education  software  is  not 
very  good,  academics  agree,  and  to  fill  the 
software  gap  colleges  are  encouraging  their 
professors  to  write  programs.  WPI  is  giving  fac- 
ulty members  loaner  computers  and  some  teach- 
ing-free time  to  write  their  software- 


Word  processing 
has  turned  equip- 
ment-scarce disci- 
plines into  equip- 
ment-intensive 
ones— and  they  are 
demanding  their 
share  of  the  equip- 
ment budget. 


Faculty  members  at  Villanova  University  can 
borrow  $1,000  interest  free  from  the  university, 
for  one  year,  to  help  pay  for  a  microcomputer,  says 
Philip  G.  Charest,  executive  director  of  the  uni- 
versity's comuting  and  information  services.  With 
a  grant  from  the  George  I.  Alden  trust,  WPI  fac- 
ulty are  developing  programs  for  use  across  the 
curriculum. 

Fifteen  RPI  professors  are  writing  software  this 
year,  supported  by  a  grant  from  a  trustee.  In  addi- 
tion, says  Robert  Gallagher,  RPI's  director  of 
computing  services,  IBM  will  loan  100  computers 
to  faculty  members  for  nine  months.  Gallagher 
will  give  priority  to  professor  who  have  no  prior 
experience  with  microcomputers,  in  the  hope  that 
he  can  expand  computer  use  on  campus. 

Franklin  and  Marshall  hopes  to  use  software 
developed  on  other  campuses  for  the  Macintosh, 
but  will  hire  what  President  Powell  calls  "a  com- 
puter hacker"  to  help  faculty  members  who  want 
to  develop  their  own  software. 

Programs  to  help  faculty  members  develop  soft- 
ware are  working  well  on  campuses  across  the 
country.  At  Stanford  University,  for  instance,  a 
history  professor  has  developed  an  adventure 
game  that  allows  a  student  to  pretend  he  is  an 
aspiring  nobleman  in  the  court  of  the  Sun  King, 
Louis  XIV,  to  better  understand  French  society.  At 
Hiram  College  an  English  professor  developed  a 
computerized  verse-writing  laboratory  to  help  stu- 
dents write  poetry,  complete  with  a  random  first- 
line  generator  for  poets  with  writer's  block.  The 
money  for  the  project  came  from  venture  capital 
raised  by  the  college's  trustees. 

Drew  University  committed  a  large  chunk  of 
money  to  providing  time,  funding,  and  support  to 
faculty  members  who  want  to  write  software.  As  a 
result,  there  are  Drew- written  programs  in  most 
departments.  In  chemistry,  students  do  some  of 
their  experiments  on  the  computer,  with  software 
that  simulates  the  laboratory  instruments.  The 
computer  shortens  the  time  it  takes  to  learn  to  use 
the  instruments,  the  professor  says,  letting  stu- 
dents concentrate  on  the  experiment  and  not  the 
mechanics. 

Although  the  computer  is  usually  thought  of  as  a 
number  cruncher,  it  is  in  reality  an  all-purpose 
tool.  Nowhere  is  that  more  obvious  than  in  liberal 
arts  colleges,  where  the  primary  use  of  the  com- 
puter seems  to  be  for  word  processing,  that  ability 
to  write  and  edit  text  on  the  computer.  Word  proc- 
essing has,  in  fact,  turned  equipment-scarce  disci- 
plines to  equipment-intensive  ones.  English 
departments,  which  once  helped  to  defray  the  cost 
of  laboratory  equipment  for  the  sciences,  are  now 
demanding  their  share  of  the  equipment  budget.  At 
Western  Maryland  College,  for  example,  the  new 
20-computer  word-processing  laboratory  was  pro- 
posed by  the  English  department. 

At  other  institutions,  the  computers  are  still  used 
primarily  by  traditional  science  and  engineering 
classes.  Hartwick  College,  for  instance,  has  rap- 
idly expanded  its  computer  system,  but  still  limits 


MAY  1985       III 


computer  use  to  those  classes  in  which  computer 
work  is  required  by  the  professor.  "We  say  if  it  is 
legitimate  course  work,  legitimate  research,  you 
can  get  all  the  time  you  need  on  the  system,"  says 
John  C.  Moulton,  assistant  vice  president  for 
information  services  at  Hartwick.  "We  would  love 
to  have  enough  equipment  to  have  enough  com- 
puters for  everyone,  but  rather  than  raise  expecta- 
tions, we  limit  the  use  of  the  computer  on  a 
course-by-course,  project-by-project  basis." 

By  fall,  Hartwick's  library  will  have  a  stand  of 
personal  computers,  with  software,  that  students 
can  reserve  for  use.  Word  processing  will  be  possi- 
ble on  Hartwick's  mainframe  system  next  year, 
Moulton  says.  Until  now  the  college  has  kept  stu- 
dents from  using  the  system  for  word  processing 
by  a  very  simple  device:  there  is  no  letter-quality 
printer  on  the  system,  and  professors  are  reluctant 
to  accept  papers  printed  on  the  hard-to-read  dot- 
matrix  printer. 

Most  institutions  have  a  problem  with  word 
processing,  because  of  the  enormous  amounts  of 
memory  and  computing  power  required  for  all  the 
students  who  need  it— engineering  and  science  stu- 
dents as  well  as  liberal  arts  types.  Yet  word  proc- 
essing may  be  the  single  greatest  contribution 
computing  can  make  to  an  educated  person.  It 
enables  a  writer  to  rewrite  and  rewrite  again. 

"Somebody  said  good  writing  is  rewriting," 
says  F&M's  Powell.  His  college  has  a  writing  - 
across-the-curriculum  program  in  which  writing  is 
emphasized  in  every  course,  and  Powell  believes 
the  personal  computers  will  help  this  process. 

Drexel  found  this  to  be  the  case:  the  school's 
cooperative  students,  who  work  in  local  indus- 
tries, are  highly  valued  for  their  engineering  and 
business  skills,  but  receive  low  marks  for  their 
communications  skills.  One  reason  Drexel  chose 
to  require  students  to  purchase  a  computer  was  to 
increase  their  writing  skills. 

Other  new  courses  are  computer-literacy 
courses.  These  course  are  not  as  computer-inten- 
sive as  most  computer-science  courses,  but  they 
still  strain  the  computing  facilities.  And  they  are 
some  of  the  most  popular  courses  on  campus, 
because  students  realize  that  familiarity  with  the 
computer  is  vital  to  understanding  the  society  they 
will  enter. 

Villanova's  Charest,  who  teaches  "Computers 
in  Society,"  the  college's  lowest-level  computer 
course,  finds  that  the  mix  of  students  who  take  it  is 
enormous,  from  nursing  majors  to  business 
majors.  His  focus,  he  says,  is  the  difference  the 
computer  makes  in  how  we  live  our  lives,  and 
each  student  brings  something  to  the  course. 

Hartwick  College,  too,  recently  instituted  a 
computer-literacy  course,  mainly  because  so  many 
students  were  taking  the  beginning  BASIC  course 
designed  to  teach  that  programming  language,  and 
"Their  programming  skill  never  developed,"  says 
Gary  E.  Stevens,  chairman  of  computer  and  infor- 
mation science.  Now  Hartwick  has  an  advanced 
BASIC  course  and  the  computer-literacy  course 


Microcomputers 
have  produced  a 

revolution  of 
expectations:  Stu- 
dents expect  to  be 
able  to  use  one. 
They  expect  to 
have  one  to  use. 


that  covers  a  little  programming  and  a  lot  of  expla- 
nations about  what  a  computer  is  and  how  it 
works. 

But  the  cycle  is  vicious  for  colleges  with  limited 
resources.  Word  processing,  statistical  packages, 
computer  literacy  and  history  games  on  the  com- 
puter mean  more  students  want  to  use  the 
machine,  and  that  means  colleges  and  universities 
have  to  come  up  with  the  money  to  provide  com- 
puting. 

Some  institutions  are  fortunate  enough  to  have 
grants.  Villanova,  for  instance,  has  nearly  three- 
quarters  of  a  million  dollars  worth  of  computing 
equipment  from  IBM,  Digital  Equipment  Corpo- 
ration, and  Intel.  At  Hartwick,  a  grant  from  the 
Pew  Memorial  trust  was  used  to  buy  computers 
and  software.  WPI  has  $2.4  million  for  hardware 
and  research  on  computer  lab  teaching  techniques 
from  Digital. 

But  Western  Maryland  College  believes  it  has 
missed  the  boat  when  it  comes  to  getting  industry 
grants,  Eshleman  says.  The  only  opportunity  insti- 
tutions like  Westerm  Maryland  College  still  have 
is  a  hefty  academic  discount  on  computing  equip- 
ment. Sometimes  this  discount  can  be  passed  on  to 
students:  Villanova  last  year  had  two  computer 
fairs,  where  major  equipment  manufacturers 
offered  students  and  faculty  members  discounts  of 
at  least  30  percent  on  hardware  and  software. 

Some  institutions  are  trying  to  create  their  own 
funding  opportunities.  Christian  Brothers  College 
has  set  up  an  arrangement  with  local  industries  to 
provide  training  for  telecommunications  work- 
ers—in return  for  funds  for  faculty  hiring  and 
equipment  purchases. 

Other  institutions  are  looking  for  ways  to  make 
computing  less  expensive.  One  popular  approach 
is  to  do  all  necessary  repairs  and  service  on  cam- 
pus. Columbia  University  figures  it  will  save  some 
$300,000  this  year  just  by  putting  all  its  computing 
equipment  under  the  same  service  contract,  to  be 
handled  by  an  on-campus  shop.  F&M,  RPI,  and 
WPI  all  intend  to  develop  in-house  expertise  for 
repairs. 

Villanova,  which  recently  did  a  preliminary 
inventory  of  hardware  and  software  on  campus  to 
find  out  what  could  be  included  in  a  service  con- 
tract, went  a  step  further  than  repairs.  "So  many 
people  came  to  us  asking  about  software  or  micro- 
computers we  had  never  heard  of,  that  we  decided 
to  find  out  who  knew  anything  about  them,  and 
use  those  people  as  experts,"  Charest  says.  Now, 
if  a  student  or  professor  wants  to  know  how  to  do 
something  on  a  data-base  program,  for  example, 
Charest  will  be  able  to  send  him  to  a  user  who  has 
probably  done  it. 

Computing  on  campus  is  still  in  its  infancy  as  far 
as  using  it  for  teaching  and  learning  is  concerned. 
No  one  knows  yet  how  best  to  provide  computers, 
or  how  best  to  use  them. 

Yet  one  thing  is  certain:  students  expect  com- 
puters to  be  a  part  of  their  life.  It's  an  expectation 
colleges  and  universities  must  decide  how  to  meet. 


IV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


The  Statue  of  Liberty  belongs  first 
to  the  mind.  We  know  it  inti- 
mately before  we  ever  see  it— the 
thrusted  torch;  the  impassive,  even  hard, 
face;  the  crown  of  spikes;  the  left  arm  cra- 
dling a  book  stamped  "July  IV  MDC- 
CLXXVI";  the  massive  folds  of  gown;  the 
green  color;  the  monument's  position  on 
Liberty  Island  in  New  York  Harbor,  the 
mainland  behind  it. 

We  imagine,  too,  that  we  know  all  about 
the  statue's  meaning— a  symbol  of  wel- 
come to  immigrants  who  sailed  from 
oppression  to  something  better  (perhaps 
America's  greatest  cliche,  although  no  less 
true  for  that),  living  up  to  the  allegory  that 
is  its  title. 

And  if  we  give  our  minds  free  rein,  we 
can  make  other  connections— the  immen- 
sity of  the  statue  representing  the  grandeur 
of  American  ideals;  or  its  physical  isola- 
tion and  sculptured  sense  of  movement 
standing  for  the  exalted  individual  bound 
in  an  enterprise.  (I  think  of  such  disparate 
images  as  Edwin  Arlington  Robinson's 
"man  against  the  sky"  and  Henry  Kis- 
singer's unguarded  sentiment  expressed  to 
Oriana  Fallaci:  "I've  always  acted  alone. 
Americans  admire  that  enormously. 
Americans  admire  the  cowboy  leading  the 
caravan  alone  astride  his  horse.") 

These  meanings  are  there— plus  many 
others,  accrued  through  history,  which  we 
scarcely  know.  There  is,  in  fact,  a  lot 
more  in  the  statue's  physical  presence  and 
meaning  than  the  architectural  and  sculp- 
tural colossus  we  picture  in  our  minds. 
And  that  is  why  it  is  always  worth  a  visit. 

Disbelief,  however,  is  my  first  reaction 
as  I  view  the  statue  from  Battery  Park  in 
the  afternoon  of  an  overcast  day.  The  fig- 
ure of  Liberty  seems  caught  in  a  rigid  spi- 
der web— the  scaffolding  constructed  to 
enable  workmen  to  refurbish  it  for  the  cen- 
tennial in  1986.  The  tubular  framework 
rises  higher  than  the  arm,  now  that  the 
torch  has  been  removed.  Through  it,  still, 
emerges  the  feeling  of  upward  motion,  the 
skyward  sweep  molded  by  Frederic 
Auguste  Bartholdi,  the  sculptor.  I  never 


A  century  ago,  the  Statue  of 
Liberty  was  an  engineering 
marvel.  Today,  restoring  it 
is  a  monumental  project. 
The  statue  looms  large  in 
the  American  imagination. 


By  Marshall  Ledger        Photographs  by  William  Denison 


LIBERTY 


k^'Ji. 


did  understand  the  19th-century  critic  who 
scoffed  that,  from  this  vantage  point,  the 
statue  looked  like  a  sack  of  potatoes  rais- 
ing a  stick.  But  there  is  no  escaping  the 
suffocating  feeling  of  a  cage. 

George  I.  Hoehl  thinks  the  scaffolding  is 
a  marvel.  The  Villanova  University  gradu- 
ate is  vice  president  of  Lehrer  and 
McGovern,  the  construction-management 
firm  in  charge  of  the  renovation;  he  is 
project  chief.  He  points  out  that  the  scaf- 
folding amounts  to  300  tons  of  aluminum 
tied  together  in  such  a  way  that  it  is  per- 
fectly stable,  yet  does  not  touch  the  statue, 
so  the  temporary  rig  cannot  transfer  any 
corroding  elements. 

He  draws  my  attention  to  the  corners. 
Instead  of  being  square,  they  are  octagonal 
in  order  to  increase  the  load  they  can  bear; 
the  load  is  then  shifted  to  the  support  sys- 
tem of  braces,   which  look  like  arrows 


from  here.  The  octagonal  system  is  strong; 
one  supported  the  crane  that  removed  the 
torch  and  flame— that  part  of  the  statue 
weighed  3,600  pounds.  As  Hoehl  talks,  I 
sense  his  engineer's  pride  in  being  able  to 
deal  with  a  complicated  structure  that 
stretched  the  imagination  and  technology 
of  those  who  devised  it  more  than  a  cen- 
tury ago. 

His  responsibilities  are  also  a  job,  a  job 
to  be  done  on  schedule— by  July  4,  1986 — 
and  to  be  done  right.  A  lot  of  money  is  at 
stake:  Renovation  will  cost  some  $30  mil- 
lion for  the  statue  (the  statue  is  the  focal 
point  for  a  $230-million  rehabilitation 
which  includes  the  remainder  of  Liberty 
Island  and  neighboring  Ellis  Island  as 
well).  Respect  is  at  stake,  too.  The  money 
is  being  solicited  from  the  public,  which, 
no  doubt,  considers  the  statue  its  own. 

To  do  his  job,  Hoehl  tries  to  avoid  being 


"caught  up  in  the  aura  of  it."  He  gets 
caught  up,  anyway.  After  the  torch  and 
flame  were  removed,  the  flame  was 
shipped  out  to  Pasadena  for  the  Rose  Bowl 
parade  in  January,  giving  him  a  flavor  of 
what  it  must  have  been  like  to  dismantle 
the  statue  in  Paris,  where  it  was  first 
erected,  and  ship  it,  in  85  crates,  to  the 
United  States.  The  flame's  parade  appear- 
ance was  sensible;  in  soliciting  money 
nationally,  the  Statue  of  Liberty-Ellis 
Island  Foundation  wants  to  carry  the 
"event"  of  the  renovation  beyond  New 
York  so  that  it  does  not  seem— as  the  erec- 
tion seemed  to  some  a  century  ago— sim- 
ply a  local  production. 

To  reach  the  statue,  Hoehl  and  I 
take  the  launch  which  transports 
the  workers  daily  on  their  15-min- 
ute  ride  to  the  job.  We  head  for  the  work- 


VI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


The  head,  perfectly 
recognizable,  is  frighten- 
ing in  size.  It  is  easy  to 
see  why  Gulliver,  close 
up,  found  the  Brobding- 
nagians  repulsive.  The 
nose  is  4  feet,  6  inches;  a 
fingernail  is  13  inches 
long,  10  inches  wide. 


ers'  dock,  on  the  near  side  of  the  island,  to 
the  left  of  the  statue.  On  some  mornings, 
Hoehl  says,  the  sun  hits  the  scaffolding  so 
directly  and  reflects  so  forcefully  that  the 
aluminum  bands  seem  to  disappear,  letting 
the  statue  stand  free  once  again.  The  dank- 
ness  of  this  day  creates  no  such  mirage. 

Both  statue  and  scaffolding  grow  as  we 
near  the  base.  One  of  this  country's 
experts  on  American  myths,  Philip 
Young,  who  teaches  at  the  Pennsylvania 
State  University,  recalls  dining  at  the  Win- 
dows on  the  World  restaurant,  where  he 
looked  out  to  see  the  statue  figuratively 
leap  up  in  the  spotlight.  He  talks  about 
"the  great  truth"  expressed  by  the  statue 
as  a  symbol  and  suggests  that  it  bears  that 
truth,  too,  because  of  its  daunting  size. 

On  water,  however,  you  can  lose  your- 
self in  sections  of  the  picture.  Most  notice- 
able are  the  contrasting  additions  to  the 


pedestal— a  temporary  and  graceful  ramp 
from  the  dock  to  the  pedestal  entrance, 
used  to  transport  supplies;  and  an  ungainly 
block  of  concrete,  built  by  the  National 
Park  Service  more  than  a  decade  ago 
and  housing  the  Museum  of  American 
Immigration. 

After  docking,  Hoehl  and  I  ascend  the 
scaffold  in  an  elevator,  a  sort  of  self- 
climbing,  rack-and-pinion  device  that 
shoots  noisily  by  the  statue's  upraised  arm. 
We  rise  to  the  point  of  the  amputation. 

The  spikes  of  the  crown  look  massive, 
yet  frail;  some,  it  is  clear,  are  so  corroded 
that  they  will  be  replaced  (not  for  the  first 
time,  either).  The  simulation  of  hair,  the 
wavy  lines  in  the  copper,  are  significant 
grooves.  The  breast,  which  even  from  the 
ground  appears  sexless,  looks  like  Victor 
Mature 's  from  here.  The  arm  is  so  large,  it 
is  virtually  indecipherable.  The  head,  per- 


fectly recognizable,  is  frightening  in  size; 
I  can  see  why  Gulliver,  close  up,  found  the 
Brobdingnagians  repulsive. 

The  stillness  up  here,  however,  offers 
relief,  and  the  famous  elements  become 
familiar  again.  Hoehl  speaks  of  them  as  a 
doctor  might  speak  of  a  patient's  biopsies. 
Although  the  copper  "skin"  is  generally  in 
good  condition,  he  says,  X-rays  have  dis- 
closed spots  weakened  by  corrosion;  they 
will  be  patched.  Hoehl  is  often  asked 
whether  the  surface  will  be  polished.  The 
answer  is  no.  The  patina,  he  says,  "is  one 
of  the  sacred  cows."  It  also  serves  as  a 
layer  of  protection  against  pollution- 
important  100  years  ago,  he  adds,  and 
more  important  today.  And,  he  observes, 
the  statue  might  not  be  recognized  in  a 
copper-yellow  condition. 

From  this  distance— we  are  on  the  cat- 
walk, close  enough  to  touch  the  statue— 


MAY  1985       VII 


show  where  the  plates  of  copper 
overlap  (they  were  formed  by  being  set 
t  a  mold  on  the  exterior  and  ham- 
mered upon  the  inside — a  technique 
known  as  repousse).  A  black  substance 
has  oozed  from  many  of  these  seams  and 
dried.  This  is  a  coal  tar,  applied  from  the 
inside  to  seal  the  interior  from  the  marine 
environment  and  also  to  prevent  the  iron  of 
the  structural  frame  from  grazing  the  cop- 
per and  causing  contamination.  In  exces- 
sive heat  over  the  years,  the  tar  leaked 
through  and  ran.  It  will  be  cleaned  off  with 
bicarbonate  of  soda,  which  cuts  the  tar  but 
not  the  copper.  "The  copper's  only 
3/32nds  of  an  inch  thick— the  thickness  of 
a  penny.  We  wouldn't  want  to  take  away 
from  that,"  says  Hoehl.  The  western  side 
of  the  statue  is  blackened  from  acid  rain 
and  other  pollutants.  Hoehl  rubs  the  dis- 
coloration vigorously;  none  of  it  smudges 
onto  his  hand.  It  will  be  cleaned  as  well,  to 
return  in  time. 

These  maladies  are  not  disastrous.  The 
statue  could  have  stood  a  long  time  with 
them.  What  is  dangerous  are  the  holes, 
from  one  to  six  at  a  spot,  which  have 
emerged  as  rivets  popped  on  the  inside. 
They  indicate  weakened  or  nonexistent 
support,  and  let  moisture  in,  too.  The  most 
obvious  appears  on  many  of  the  pictorial 
reproductions— a  pair  of  vampire-like  dots 
under  the  chin,  emphasized  by  the  dribble 
of  coal  tar  down  the  neck.  Hoehl  promises 
to  explain  the  problem  when  we  move 
inside. 

We  descend  the  elevator,  getting  off  at 
the  observation  deck  (the  cornice  near  the 
top  of  the  pedestal,  identifiable  by  the  sin- 
gle doorway),  and  enter  the  statue.  We 
stand  where  the  former  elevator  stopped, 
and  visitors  climbing  to  the  top  began  their 
trek— up  a  squarish  staircase,  which  then 
led  to  a  helical  one  circling  a  pole  near  the 
center  of  the  statue. 

Interior  scaffolding  and  working  plat- 
forms, safety  nets  and  materials  of  all  sorts 
have  disheveled  the  interior.  The  metal 
pylon  and  struts  supporting  the  statue  have 
been  coated  with  a  rust-inhibiting  zinc 
paint.  This  part  of  the  job  has  been  the 
most  pleasant  surprise  for  Hoehl  so  far, 
and  he  enjoys  telling  why.  Over  time,  the 
frame  had  been  covered  with  paints  of  sev- 
eral bases— lead,  oil,  and  even  water;  then 
for  the  Bicentennial  in  1976,  everything 
had  been  given  a  greenish  color  with  a 
vinyl  paint  that  amounted  to  what  he  calls 
"almost  an  armor  coating."  It  more  or  less 
matched  the  copper  oxide  in  color  and  pro- 
tected the  interior  from  pollutants,  he 
explains,  but  it  also  trapped  water  behind 
it  and  promoted  corrosion. 


Hoehl  anticipated  spending  months 
removing  the  paints,  until  it  was  discov- 
ered that  liquid  nitrogen  would  do  the  task 
in  weeks.  Hoehl  points  out  that  liquid 
nitrogen  works  cold— at  -360°,  an  impor- 
tant detail  because  any  sort  of  heat  could 
damage  the  patina  finish.  Using  it  to 
remove  paint  on  this  scale,  however,  was 
new;  the  company  that  manufactures  it — 
and  donated  it  to  the  restoration  project- 
had  noticed  that  it  stripped  paint  from  any- 
thing it  brushed.  And  it  did  not  harm  the 
copper  (it  did  not  even  affect  the  coal  tar). 
When  the  interior  is  reopened  to  visitors, 
the  metal  will  look  almost  natural.  And  it 
will  exist  in  a  gentler  environment.  Previ- 
ously, temperatures  ranged  from  100°  in 
summer  to  40°  in  winter;  and  carbon  diox- 
ide, introduced  by  the  breathing  of  visitors 
and  trapped  inside,  ate  into  the  surfaces. 
After  renovation,  the  interior  will  be  kept 
stable  by  a  temperature -control  system. 
The  interior  side  of  any  piece  of  replace- 
ment copper  will  be  left  to  oxidize  natu- 
rally. "It'll  be  interesting  to  see  what  kind 
of  green  it  turns,"  says  Hoehl. 

Even  in  the  disarray  of  renovation,  you 
can  see  the  technological  achievement  that 
supports  Bartholdi's  statue.  Credit  goes  to 
Gustave  Eiffel,  known  at  the  time  as  a 
bridge  builder,  who  put  his  expertise  to 
work  on  a  vertical  structure  (and  later  the 
Eiffel  Tower). 

The  statue's  central  tower  is  a  girder  that 
reaches  deep  into  the  pedestal  and  extends 
to  the  shoulder;  tapered  slightly,  it  is 
braced  with  diagonal  bars  for  trussing 
(another  trussed  girder  extends  from  this 
main  piece  to  support  the  upraised  arm). 
Attached  to  this  framework  is  a  series  of 
single-angle  bars  that  reach  out  toward  the 
statue's  interior  skin.  Both  girders  and  bars 
are  in  excellent  shape  and  need  no  rehabil- 
itation other  than  cleaning  and  painting. 

Connected  to  the  single-angle  bars  are 
hundreds  of  ribs,  or  "flat  bars,"  so-called 
because  they  are  bent,  if  needed,  only  at 
the  points  of  attachment.  The  farther  ends 
of  the  ribs  are  connected  to  bars  that  actu- 
ally touch  the  skin.  These  are  "armature 
bars"— Hoehl  likens  them  to  a  hoop  skirt 
or  bustle,  shaping  the  exterior.  Marvin 
Trachtenberg,  an  art  historian  at  New  York 
University  who  wrote  a  book  on  the  statue 
after  he  was,  as  he  says,  "enticed"  to  take 
his  children  to  visit  it,  calls  the  flat  bars 
"the  most  ingenious  and  subtle  aspect"  of 
the  arrangement.  He  points  out  that  they 
serve,  in  effect,  as  springs.  They  keep  the 
copper  envelope  elastic,  letting  it  adjust  to 
thermal  expansion  and  contraction  and 
resist  the  winds  which  strike  the  exterior 
surfaces  unevenly. 


Hoehl  takes  this  moment  to  explain  the 
reason  for  the  holes  in  the  statue.  The  flat 
bars  are  attached  to  the  armature  bars  by 
rectangular  pieces  called  "saddles,"  which 
fit  over  the  joint;  there  are  some  1,500  of 
them.  The  saddles  are  riveted  top  and  bot- 
tom (the  statue  has  some  25,000  rivets  in 
all).  Both  saddles  and  rivets  are  copper; 
the  bars  are  wrought  iron  (actually,  "pud- 
dled" iron,  so  called  because  of  the  bath 
used  to  extract  impurities  from  the  metal). 
When  they  touch  in  humid  situations,  they 
spark  electro-chemical  reactions,  and  cor- 
rosion sets  in.  The  original  engineers  knew 
of  the  problem— and  so  they  coated  the 
saddles  with  coal  tar.  But  during  a  century 
of  temperature  extremes,  the  tar  lost  effec- 
tiveness, letting  water  seep  behind  the  sad- 
dles. When  it  froze  in  cold  weather,  the 
saddles  loosened  and,  in  many  cases,  the 
rivets  popped;  the  frozen  water  also 
caused  minute  bulges  in  the  skin. 

In  what  Hoehl  calls  "the  most  signifi- 
cant area  of  replacement,"  the  armature 
bars,  the  saddles,  and  the  rivets  must  all  be 
made  again  and  reinserted;  so  must  many 
of  the  flat  bars.  The  armature  bars  require 
skilled  artisanship.  For  each  one,  workers 
take  a  template  and  mold  while  the  bar  is 
in  place.  Then,  in  the  workshop  that  has 
been  set  up  on  the  island,  they  make  like- 
nesses. The  bars  have  not  only  hills  and 
vales,  like  the  enlargement  of  a  back  road 
traced  from  a  map,  but  also  twists  in  other 
directions,  like  banked  curves.  Some 
under  the  folds  of  the  gown  are  nearly 
pretzels.  Contact  with  the  interior  skin 
need  not  be  continuously  perfect,  but  they 
must  conform  to  the  shape  more  than 
approximately.  The  work  is  slow.  "We're 
only  able  to  replace  a  certain  number  at 
any  one  time,"  Hoehl  points  out,  "because 
we  don't  want  to  create  any  weaknesses  in 
the  skeletal  frame  in  taking  them  off." 

After  the  armature  bars  are  shaped,  they 
are  annealed.  "Because  of  concern  about 
what  was  happening  to  the  molecules  at 
the  bends,"  says  Hoehl,  "we're  putting 
them  into  an  electric-resistance  welding 
machine  that  will  take  these  bars,  an  aver- 
age of  four  or  five  feet  long,  hook  onto 
them  at  either  end,  and  heat  them  to  a 
cherry  red  at  an  even  temperature  to  get  all 
of  the  molecules  evenly  distributed  again. 
The  annealing  process  will  give  back  a  lot 
of  the  strength  it  had  when  it  was  a  flat  bar. 
We  will  then  blast  it  because,  no  matter 
how  much  you  try,  stainless  steel  picks  up 
a  lot  of  inclusions,  or  impurities,  in  the 
rolling  process.  Even  the  machines  we're 
using  to  bend  them  introduces  impurities 
we'll  have  to  remove." 

The  flat  bars  connecting  the  armature 


/III       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


ARM  A" 
REPLACEMENT 


'  1 

*j^4         mFy«* 

fe^toA____l&K^h~ 

Like  a  bustle  or  hoop  skirt,  the  statue's 
armature  bars  shape  the  exterior  skin. 
Those  bars,  the  saddles  by  which  they 
are  attached  to  the  flat  bars,  or  ribs,  and 
the  rivets  which  hold  the  saddles  must 
all  be  replaced.  Shaping  the  armature 
bars  (left)  goes  slowly.  A  glance  at  the 
workers'  plans  shows  the  road  map — 
with  hills  and  vales  and  banked  curves — 
the  workers  must  follow.  Bending  the 
bars  take  away  much  of  their  strength,  so 
the  shaped  bars  are  annealed — heated  at 
an  even  temperature  until  the  molecules 
are  evenly  distributed  again. 


MAY  1985       IX 


major  pan  of  the  pylon  w  ill  be 

made  of  ferralium.  which  contains  more 
iron  than  does  steel  and  will,  presumably. 
enable  what  they  replace.  Ferra- 
lium. says  Hoehl.  would  have  been  used 
instead  of  stainless  steel  throughout.  In 
"«ent.  however,  it  proved  to  "have  a 
good  memory— it  would  bend  back."  he 
so  its  use  is  being  restricted  to 
straight  pieces  and  tie-backs  and  ribs  that 
do  not  require  bending.  Copper  was  pro- 
posed, but  it  would  have  been  too  heavy— 
^deration.  Hoehl  adds,  that  probably 
crossed  Eiffels  mind. 

Instead  of  coal  tar.  "we're  going  to  take 
an  editorial  license  with  the  improvements 
of  the  industry."  as  my  guide  puts  it.  "and 
wrap  the  joints  with  Teflon"— not  so  much 
to  guard  against  corrosion  as  to  give  the 
statue  more  flexibility  in  the  face  of  ther- 
mal changes  and  wind.  And  the  new  rivets 
will  be  patinated  before  being  inserted  so 
that  the  statue,  from  the  outside,  will  not 
look  as  though  it  is  dotted  with  pennies. 

Hoehl  admires  Eiffel,  who.  he  points 
out.  constructed  the  equivalent  of  a  mod- 
ern-day skyscraper  in  making  the  statue's 
skeleton  ( 100  years  ago.  the  statue  was  the 
tallest  structure  in  New  York  I .  Eiffel  fitted 
it  with  what  amounts  to  the  "curtain-wall" 
now  used  in  many  office  build- 
ings—a system  of  metal  and  glass,  the 
metal  flexible  enough  to  absorb  strains  as 
it  "follows  the  sun."  "The  statue  was 
innovative,  but  nobody  really  realized 
what  he  had  designed."  says  Hoehl.  point- 
ing out  that  Eiffels  development  was  not 
adopted  for  buildings  until  Pittsburgh's 
Gateway  Center  w  as  put  up  some  30  years 
ago.  "In  spite  of  the  fact  that  there  are 
corrosion  problems."  he  concludes,  "the 
statue  has  held  up  remarkably  well." 

One  reward  he  expects  after  the  tedious 
process  is  completed  is  a  renewed  appreci- 
ation of  Eiffel's  engineering  achievement. 
Workers  have  removed  forever  the  wire- 
mesh  cage  enclosing  the  staircase:  it  had 
been  slapped  up  in  past  years  to  keep 
overly  energetic  visitors  from  climbing 
over  the  bars.  The  protective  plate  that  had 
served  as  a  splash  pan  for  leaks  has  been 
removed,  as  have  platforms  that  created 
congestion  on  the  stairs.  Lighting  will 
show  off  the  system  of  construction.  A 
hydraulic,  stainless-steel,  glass-enclosed 
elevator,  double-decked  and  timed  to  rise 
not  too  quickly,  w  ill  let  tourists  appreciate 
the  interior  at  least  as  far  as  the  stairs 
ascending  into  the  head.  "Most  people,  all 
an  think  of  is  that  damn  w  alk  up  the 
stairs.  It's  a  killer.  And  going  down  is 
almost  as  bad."  says  Hoehl.  observing, 
-till  going  to  be  a  tough  walk." 


Since  all  of  this  w  ork  w  ill  be  perfectly 
visible  in  the  finished  structure,  it 
has  led  to  one  of  the  renovation's 
continuing  and  inevitable  controversies. 
Stainless  steel,  says  Hoehl.  is  tougher  to 
bend  than  w  rought  iron  yet  is  more  durable 
and  ought  to  last  longer.  But  using  it 
amounts  to  restoration  rather  than  preser- 
vation. The  distinction  arouses  worn  from 
some  historical  architects. 

"Restoration,  in  many  cases,  applies  to 
the  application  of  new  material,  and  pres- 
ervation is  an  attempt  to  save  what  was 
there.  Preservation  has  been  the  basic  phi- 
losophy of  this  effort,  to  the  degree  that 
that's  possible."  says  Gary  Roth,  curator  at 
the  National  Park  Service.  The  Hartwick 
College  graduate  is  helping  prepare  a  new 
"Statue  Story  Museum"  and  manages  the 
various  exhibit  planning,  design-fabrica- 
tion, and  installation  contracts  involved 
with  it.  "We're  not  trying  to  build  a  new 
statue."  he  adds.  "We're  trying  to  preserve 
the  one  that's  there." 

The  most  noticeable  parts  are  the  torch 
and  flame.  "You  are  removing  parts  of  the 


statue."  he  acknowledges.  "The  question 
is.  when  you  replace  what  you've 
removed,  to  what  period  do  you  replace  it? 
Basically  what  we've  done  is  to  go  back  to 
the  way  the  torch  and  the  flame  were  origi- 
nally structured  rather  than  the  way  they 
were  modified  over  time.  But  for  preserva- 
tionists, this  leads  to  all  kinds  of  mental 
torture." 

Roth  is  referring  to  the  reticulated  flame 
and  torch  familiar  to  us.  In  its  original 
form  it  was.  like  all  of  the  statue,  solid 
copper  sheets.  In  1916.  however.  John 
Gutzon  Borglum.  the  sculptor  who  later 
carved  the  faces  in  Mount  Rushmore.  was 
commissioned  to  make  openings  so  that 
the  statue  could  be  used  as  a  lighthouse. 
Leaks  between  the  glass  and  the  metal 
resulting  from  the  surgery,  ironically,  were 
the  chief  source  of  destructive  w  ater  in  the 
interior.  And  the  intention  of  the  cutting 
was  never  fulfilled;  the  statue  failed  as  a 
safety  device  in  the  harbor  and  functioned 
as  a  lighthouse  only  symbolically. 

The  debate  on  which  route  to  take  for 
the  rehabilitation  is  well  known  to  F.  Ross 


ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


Project  chief  George  Hoehl  (above) 
says  that  a  hole  was  to  have  been 
cut  in  the  statue's  right  sandal,  as 
an  entryway  for  workmen  and 
materials.  Rather  than  compromise 
the  monument's  original  design, 
the  plan  was  quickly  scrapped. 


Holland,  Jr.,  a  historian  recently  retired 
from  the  National  Park  Service  who  serves 
as  director  of  restoration  and  preservation 
for  the  foundation.  "In  the  beginning, 
when  we  first  started  talking  about  chang- 
ing the  thing  back  to  the  original,  taking  a 
little  purer  approach  to  it,"  he  recalls, 
"there  was  some  resistance— which  I 
found  rather  interesting:  People  feel  so 
strongly  about  the  statue.  They  com- 
plained that  the  service  was  'changing'  the 
statue.  But  when  we  explained  that  we 
weren't  changing,  but  going  back  to  what 
it  was  originally,  then  they  began  to  under- 
stand and  the  complaints  subsided." 

Paul  Goldberger,  architecture  critic  for 
The  New  York  Times,  points  out  that  oppo- 
nents of  some  restoration  projects  maintain 
that  old  monuments  ought  to  look  old.  and 
not  new.  His  own  opinion  is  that  such 
structures  are  not  merely  "pieces  of  nos- 
talgia," but  physical  objects  that  require 
care  and  rehabilitation  if  they  are  going  to 
exist  at  all.  Skillful  and  sensitive  rehabili- 
tation, he  says,  "does  not  erase  the  sense 
of  time— it  buys  more  time." 


Holland,  in  effect,  uses  this  logic  in 
observing  that  the  park  service  will  not 
compromise  the  integrity  of  Bartholdi's 
design  or  intentions.  (He  calls  the  carved 
flame  "official  vandalization.")  Stainless 
steel,  like  puddled  iron,  is  fenous,  he 
points  out;  the  fact  that  the  newer  material 
will  not  violate  the  look  of  the  interior, 
yet,  in  being  compatible  with  copper, 
stainless  steel  overcomes  the  sole  defect  of 
the  original  metal.  The  original  bars  will 
be  retained  in  the  right  front  foot,  so  that 
visitors  can  sense  the  statue  of  1886. 

He  also  points  out  that  the  flame  will  be 
covered  with  gold  leaf,  in  order  to  stand 
out  both  during  the  day  and  at  night  when 
a  light  placed  on  the  outside  gallery  plays 
upon  it.  Purists  may  register  a  complaint 
about  that  as  well,  but  they  will  lose  again. 
Bartholdi,  never  satisfied  with  the  lighting 
experiments  after  the  statue  was  installed, 
recommended  gilding. 

Hoehl,  who  says  that  the  debate  is  not 
one  which  his  firm  normally  encounters, 
tells  me  that,  under  a  previous  plan,  a  hole 
was  to  have  been  cut  in  the  statue's  right 


sandal  as  an  entryway  for  workmen  and 
materials.  It  was  scrapped  quickly. 

Hoehl  and  I  resume  our  journey,  taking 
the  scaffolding  elevator  to  the  base  of  the 
pedestal.  There  are  abysses  where  the  ele- 
vator shaft  and  stairs  had  been.  Peering 
down  about  50  feet  into  the  foundation,  I 
see  what  Hoehl  calls  the  "dunnage 
beams,"  horizontal  bars  on  which  the 
pylon  of  the  statue  actually  rests.  Accord- 
ing to  Hoehl,  the  pedestal,  faced  with 
granite,  was  the  largest  poured-concrete 
structure  in  the  world  at  the  time.  It  is 
made  from  Rosendale  cement,  the  same 
that  forms  the  pillars  of  the  Brooklyn 
Bridge,  totally  unreinforced  by  steel  but 
enormously  strong.  (It  is  too  slow  in  cur- 
ing to  be  used  today.)  I  have  heard  that,  to 
tip  the  statue  over,  you  would  have  to  tip 
the  island  as  well.  Hoehl  agrees.  He  notes 
that  tipping  the  island  would  be  no  easy 
matter.  The  island  is  not  a  piece  of  earth 
formed  by  currents,  but  a  piece  of  the 
schist  which  underlies  the  buildings  of 
Manhattan. 

We  walk  outside  the  statue,  passing 


MAY  1QS5       XI 


SELLING  THE  LADY 


The  Statue  of  Liberty 
might  be  the  most 
exploited  piece  of  Ameri- 
cana. Sometimes  you  can- 
not tell  whether  a  certain 
use  is  a  tribute  or  an  absurd- 
ity. 

Creator  Bartholdi  started 
it.  He  held  a  series  of  din- 
ners in  the  statue — succes- 
sively, in  the  kneecap,  the 
stomach,  and  the  head.  In 
1918,  some  18,000  officers 
and  enlisted  men  at  Camp 
Dodge,  in  Iowa,  formed  a 
huge  statue  in  its  shape; 
most  wore  khaki,  but  oth- 
ers, tactically  placed,  wore 
white  to  form  outlines  of  the 
body  and  gown. 

In  the  opening  scene  in 
Kafka's  Amerika,  the  hero 
sails  past  the  statue,  but  he 
sees  it  holding  a  sword.  A 
mistake  by  the  author?  Art 
historian  Marvin  Trachten- 
berg  says  no— Kafka  por- 
trays a  "nightmare  world." 
Literary  scholar  Martin 
Evans  says  yes:  "He  proba- 
bly saw  a  bad  photograph," 
and  what  is  behind  it,  any- 
way, is  "the  threatening, 
castrating  female." 

The  final  scene  of  Planet 
of  the  Apes  shows  the  statue 
destroyed,  symbolizing  the 
death,  by  nuclear  destruc- 
tion, of  liberty  and  every 
other  human  virtue  and 
vice.  The  final  moments  of 
Up  the  Sandbox  show  a 
group  of  American  terrorists 
bungling  their  method  but 
carrying  out  their  intention 
of  blowing  up  the  statue.  A 
poster  depicting  the  statue 
pregnant  advertised  a  1973 
review  called  "What's  a 
Nice  Country  Like  You 
Doing  in  a  State  Like 
This?" 

The  statue  makes  appear- 
ances world-wide.  A  bill- 
board between  Vicenza  and 
Florence,  in  Italy,  displays 
it  in  an  advertisement  for 
American-style  clothes 


(whose  brand  name  is 
another  American  symbol, 
Marlboro).  The  National 
Park  Service's  Gary  Roth 
has  posters  from  the  Soviet 
Union  showing  the  statue  as 
a  villainous  creature.  In 
their  colonial  days,  the 
French  reportedly  trans- 
ported a  reduced  version  of 
the  statue  to  Hanoi;  I  have 
not  heard  of  its  fate. 

In  the  United  States  this 
year,  it  is  everywhere.  The 
cover  of  the  January  issue 
of  Mad  magazine  paid  hom- 
age to  the  renovation:  A 
helicopter  has  hoisted  a 
gigantic  Q-tip  to  clean  the 
statue's  ear.  There  are 
advertisements  galore  for 
the  restoration  project. 
Some  are  sponsored  by  the 
foundation.  Others  are  self- 
serving.  A  French  perfume 
manufacturer  sends  regards 
to  his  "American  friends" 
through  his  picture  standing 
behind  the  quarter-sized 
Bartholdi  original  which 
stands  in  the  Seine.  You  can 
buy  the  "official  Statue  of 
Liberty  radio"  or  a  maga- 
zine subscription  and  who 
knows  what  else,  and  the 
respective  firms  promise  to 
pass  part  of  their  profit  on  to 
the  foundation.  Or  you  can 
send  $10  and  a  nonreturn- 
able  photograph  to  a  com- 
pany which  will  insert  the 
picture  into  some  kind  of 
electronic  viewing  device 
on  Liberty  Island. 

Is  this  sacrilege? 

"I  think  there  is  very  little 
that  any  ad  can  do  to  the 
statue,"  says  Roth.  Still,  all 
of  that  activity  "makes  a 
statement— it  is  so  great  a 
part  of  our  national  psyche 
that  there  are  all  kinds  of 
opportunities  for  use.  What 
one  person  thinks  is  a  mis- 
use, another  person  thinks  is 
a  great  business  opportu- 
nity." 

—ML 


The  restored  torch  and  flame  will, 
like  the  original,  be  made  of  solid 
copper  sheets.  (The  familiar  light- 
house cut-outs  came  in  1916).  The 
first  step:  building  a  full-sized 
plaster-of-Paris  model. 


Xll       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


piles  of  debris.  The  stairs  are  recogniz- 
able. Someone  has  a  contract  to  haul  it 
away— and  will  probably  section  it  into 
pieces  small  enough  to  sell  as  souvenirs. 
We  can  see  the  boat  at  the  visitors'  pier.  I 
think  of  the  poem  "To  the  Statue"  by  May 
Swenson,  in  which  the  passengers  are  said 
to  be  packed  like  "asparagus  tips."  Not 
today,  however.  Tourists  assume  they  are 
not  welcome;  Hoehl  says  that  business  is 
off  60  percent.  In  fact,  however,  the  foun- 
dation has  gone  to  some  pains  to  keep  the 
island  open,  outside  the  workers'  com- 
pound. A  current  attraction  is  the  work- 
shop where  the  armature  bars  are  shaped 
and  the  new  torch  and  flame  are  being 
made. 

The  workshop,  which  we  enter,  covers 
the  area  of  a  football  field.  One  side  has  a 
glassed-off  passageway,  through  which 
tourists  can  watch  the  workmen,  both 
French  and  American. 

The  American  half  of  the  workers'  side 
is  conspicuous  for  the  "Save  Our  Statue" 
stickers  attached  to  lockers  and  walls.  We 
pass  a  large  press  and  drills,  the  large 
metal  container  that  is  the  annealing 


machine,  racks  with  finished  bars,  care- 
fully labeled,  and  the  banner  "Ornamental 
and  Architectural  Ironworkers  Local  580." 
The  union  had  to  come  to  an  accommoda- 
tion with  the  French,  says  Hoehl,  since  its 
representatives  felt  that  the  French  were 
taking  their  jobs;  for  a  while,  it  was  "save 
our  statue."  But  the  repousse  technique  is 
not  often  used,  and  its  practitioners  are 
few.  "There's  no  way  they  had  the  exper- 
tise to  do  what  these  guys  are  doing.  They 
could  have  learned  it,"  he  continues,  "but, 
with  all  things  considered,  we  don't  have 
forever  to  do  this." 

The  French  side  contains  iron  "lasts" 
embedded  in  sections  of  tree  trunks  and 
rows  of  both  metal-headed  hammers  and 
wooden  mallets.  When  I  visit,  the  workers 
are  plotting  points  on  a  full-sized  plaster- 
of-Paris  model  of  the  flame;  smaller 
maquettes  lie  nearby.  The  designs  of  the 
original  were  destroyed  in  a  fire  at  Gaget, 
Gauthier  et  Cie,  the  firm  which  produced 
the  statue,  so  they  have  designed  it  anew 
from  period  sketches  and  photographs. 

According  to  Jean  Wiest,  assistant  proj- 
ect chief  of  the  French  workers,  repousse 


requires  understanding  copper,  a  sense  for 
volume,  and  talent  in  drawing.  The  tech- 
nique was  "almost  dead,"  he  says  until 
Serge  Pascal,  the  project  chief,  revitalized 
it  by  studying  books,  learning  from  old 
craftsmen,  and  teaching  others.  He  and  his 
colleagues  came  in  November  and  expect 
to  be  finished  by  the  end  of  the  year.  They 
are  accustomed  to  traveling  wherever 
there  is  work  within  their  country,  making 
what  they  call  the  "tour  de  France  ".  "It  is 
not  the  same,  like  to  do  other  metalwork  in 
France,  because  it  is  the  Statue  of 
Liberte,"  Wiest  says,  his  voice  obviously 
not  translating  Liberty  out  of  his  native 
language.  "It  is  different.  It  is  special." 

We  stop  in  the  corner  to  inspect  the  old 
torch.  Corrosion  is  evident,  as  if  myriads 
of  bugs  have  gnawed  at  the  edges  of  the 
copper.  Bartholdi  went  to  great  trouble  for 
tiny  details.  The  railing  design  contains 
corn  husks  about  the  size  of  a  finger;  not 
many  have  seen  them. 

Darkness  has  begun  to  fall  when  we 
leave.  Mist  has  its  own  fetchingness;  the 
lighting  on  the  scaffold  turns  the  pipes  into 
a  spectacle  all  their  own.  Hoehl  tells  me 
that  dramatic  lighting  is  planned  for  the 
completed  statue.  Subdued  at  the  level  of 
the  fort,  it  will  increase  in  intensity  as  it 
rises,  culminating  at  the  flame. 

In  its  state  of  rehabilitation,  the  statue 
looks  of  a  piece,  with  only  worklights 
playing  off  the  scaffold.  According  to 
Hoehl,  the  lighting  designer  proposed 
placing  lights  inside  the  scaffold  in  order 
to  illuminate  the  statue  better  and  diminish 
the  impact  of  its  temporary  surroundings. 
The  foundation  and  the  National  Park  Ser- 
vice, however,  chose  the  current  arrange- 
ment, he  says,  observing,  "They  wanted 
people  to  know  what  is  going  on  out  here." 

Copper  is  not  the  only  patina 
encrusting  the  statue.  Symbolism 
does,  too.  And  that  deserves  some 
brushing  off  as  well.  Gary  Roth  expects  to 
include  the  symbolism  in  the  Statue  Story 
Museum.  His  own  experience  tells  him  it 
is  needed.  "I  never  went  to  the  statue  until 
I  left  New  York,"  he  says  (he  is  currently 
located  in  West  Virginia).  "I  never 
thought  seriously  about  it.  It  was  some- 
thing you  just  took  for  granted— an  oddity 
out  there,  bizarre,  this  huge  monstrous 
thing." 

Although  the  new  museum  will  display 
the  symbolism,  he  warns  that  "it's  going 
to  be  a  lot  of  questions  posed  without 
answers."  And  he  adds,  "I'm  not  sure 
there  are  many  answers,  because  it  has  a 
lot  to  do  with  what  your  own  thinking  is." 
For  starters,  there  is  the  idea  in  the 


MAY  1985       XIII 


minds  of  the  French  who  conceived  of  the 
gift.  The  statue  represented  a  hope  of  lib- 
erty for  them  and  had  little  to  do  with 
the  United  States  except  strategic 
convenience. 

The  guiding  light  was  Edouard-Rene 
Lefebvre  de  Laboulaye,  a  jurist  and  Alexis 
de  Tocqueville's  successor  as  the  French 
authority  on  American  constitutional  his- 
tory. Marvin  Trachtenberg  describes  a 
convoluted  piece  of  history  as  clearly  as 
anyone:  France  since  1789  had  vacillated 
between  monarchism  and  republicanism. 

Laboulaye  was  a  republican;  he  had 
made  order  and  liberty  a  motif  of  his  three- 
volume  history  of  the  United  States.  Talk 
about  the  statue  began  in  his  circle  in 
1865,  when  the  republicans  were  political 
outsiders.  Since  an  object  representing 
moral  and  political  virtue  was  to  be  con- 
structed by  the  opposition,  a  distant  yet 
relevant  location  seemed  appropriate. 
(After  Lincoln's  assassination,  French 
republicans  presented  a  memorial  medal  to 
his  widow.  It  was  struck  in  Switzerland 
and  smuggled  into  the  American  embassy 
in  France  to  escape  the  agents  of  Napoleon 


III.  Trachtenberg  suggests  this  exploit  as  a 
precedent  for  the  statue.) 

The  expressed  reason  for  the  gift  was 
that  it  signified  "a  genuine  flow  of  sympa- 
thy" (as  Bartholdi  put  it)  between  peoples, 
dating  back  to  French  help  during  the 
American  Revolution.  Trachtenberg  calls 
this  rationale  a  useful  myth  that  promoted 
good  feelings.  But  he  points  out  that  the 
donors'  own  sense  was  that  it  beamed  its 
message  to  Europe,  which  it  faced.  The 
message  was  incorporated  in  the  statue's 
full  title:  Liberty  Enlightening  the  World. 

John  Higham,  professor  of  history  at 
Johns  Hopkins  University,  adds  that  the 
real  motive  influenced  the  statue's  physi- 
ognomy: "a  passive  figure,  austere  and 
stern- visaged,  a  model  of  frozen 
perfection." 

Today,  the  French  hint  at  another  sym- 
bolic layer,  telling  an  old-fashioned  story 
of  obsessive  love.  It  appears  in  the  biogra- 
phy of  Bartholdi  in  the  brochure  you  can 
buy  in  Colmar,  the  Alsatian  town  where  he 
was  born.  It  centers  around  Jeanne  Emilie 
Baheux,  his  model  for  the  statue's  arm  and 
torso.  After  he  discovers  her,  they  live 


together  without  telling  Madame 
Bartholdi,  unable  to  marry  because  of  the 
"willful,  tyrannic,  exclusive  passion"  of 
his  mother  for  him.  There  are  comic  epi- 
sodes of  deluding  the  mother  when  she 
visits  her  son  in  Paris.  In  1876,  Bartholdi 
heads  the  commission  presenting  the  right 
arm  and  torch  to  the  United  States  for  its 
centennial  celebration  in  Philadelphia.  He 
wants  to  take  Jeanne  (they  expect  to  be 
married  in  the  United  States),  but  cannot 
escape  the  company  of  the  other  delegates. 
He  manages  to  obtain  a  Canadian  passport 
for  her,  and  she  travels  on  the  same  ship 
anonymously.  They  are  married  before 
they  return  to  France.  Thus  liberated, 
"Bartholdi  can  devote  himself  entirely  to 
'Liberty'." 

Bartholdi  is  said  to  have  been  thinking 
of  his  mother  when  he  shaped  the  face.  It 
is  supposedly  a  political  tribute,  since  she 
was  a  virtual  prisoner  after  Germany  had 
annexed  Alsace-Lorraine  in  1871.  Know- 
ing about  Jeanne,  a  Freudian  might  read 
guilt  into  the  sculpture's  gesture  and  cast 
another  interpretation  on  that  stern-visaged 
model  of  frozen  perfection. 


XIV       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


On  opening  day,  the 
masses  who  had  helped 
pay  for  the  statue's  ped- 
estal were  present  only 
in  the  speakers'  rheto- 
ric. The  big  shots,  most 
of  whom  had  withheld 
their  support,  were 
invited  to  sail  into  the 
harbor  to  view  the 
fireworks. 


The  United  States,  at  the  time,  had 
myths  of  its  own,  and  the  statue  matched 
many  of  them  neatly. 

One  of  the  strongest  myths,  surely,  was 
"manifest  destiny,"  an  expresssion  of 
national  confidence  and  power  dating  from 
the  1840s.  It  was  "a  body  of  sentiment  and 
nothing  else,"  according  to  Norman  A. 
Graebner,  professor  of  history  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Virgina.  But  it  was  a  sentiment 
that  contained  all  of  the  elements  that 
would  later  be  affixed  to  the  statue. 

"Manifest  destiny"  justified  expansion- 
ism, and  what  was  territorial  at  first 
became  political  as  well.  "The  emancipa- 
tion of  the  whole  race"  was  "dependent, 
in  a  .great  degree,  on  the  United  States," 
said  a  newspaper  editorial  in  1 845  (slavery 
often  was  conveniently  overlooked).  The 
idea  allowed  for  foreign  assimilation, 
although  it  would  take  nearly  half  a  cen- 
tury after  the  statue  was  erected  for  the 
idea  to  be  ascribed  to  it.  "Long  may  our 
country  prove  itself  the  asylum  of  the 
oppressed,"  said  a  congressman  in  1845. 
And  a  British  traveler,  shortly  thereafter, 
presciently  anticipated  the  French  gift  by 


writing  in  fear  that  Americans  "only  wait 
for  material  power  to  apply  the  incendiary 
torch  of  republicanism  to  the  nations  of 
Europe." 

Openness  is  another  important  Ameri- 
can idea,  as  described  by  J.  Martin  Evans 
in  America:  The  View  From  Europe. 
Openness  was,  first,  geographical  and 
quickly  became  an  attitude:  not  only  that 
one's  intentions  be  open  and  above-board, 
but  also  that  every  part  of  life  be  open  to 
scrutiny. 

Openness  may  have  translated  into  a 
reverence  for  the  big,  the  concrete,  and  the 
measurable.  In  1898,  the  British  journalist 
George  W.  Steevens  called  Americans 
"the  most  materialistic  people  of  the 
world"— not  in  the  sense  of  being  avari- 
cious, but  "in  the  sense  that  they  must  put 
all  their  ideas  in  material  form."  The 
notion  was  extended  by  George  Santay- 
ana,  who  wrote  of  the  American,  "To  my 
mind,  the  most  striking  expression  of  his 
materialism  is  his  singular  preoccupation 
with  quantity.  If,  for  instance,  you  visit  the 
Niagara  Falls,  you  may  expect  to  hear  how 
many  cubic  feet  or  metric  tons  of  water  are 
precipitated  per  second  over  the  cataract." 

And  so,  among  the  figures  you  have 
heard  and  will  be  hearing  are  the  height  of 
the  statue  from  base  to  torch  (151  feet, 
1  inch),  the  length  and  width  of  a  finger- 
nail (13  and  10  inches),  the  extent  of  the 
nose  (4  feet,  6  inches),  and  the  weight  of 
the  copper  sheets  (100  tons). 

In  a  sense,  then,  the  statue  fit  right  in.  It 
existed  in  the  minds  of  Americans  before 
they  received  it,  and  it  came  to  an  appro- 
priate home,  even  if  the  expressed  motives 
for  giving  it  had  been  somewhat  contrived. 

To  see  how  it  was  impressed  upon 
Americans,  however,  we  must  turn  to 
opening-day  ceremonies,  on  October  28, 
1885.  In  that  celebration,  eminent  person- 
ages tried  to  establish  the  symbolic  mean- 
ing of  the  monumental  work. 

The  Rev.  Richard  S.  Storrs  swallowed 
the  French  line,  speaking  of  the  "remem- 
brance" of  mutual  friendship  and  the 
"promise"  of  extending  peace  over  a 
tumultuous  world. 

Count  Ferdinand  de  Lesseps,  president 
of  the  French-American  committee  after 
the  death  of  Laboulaye,  praised  "individ- 
ual initiative"  and  American  "go-ahead" 
(he  received  applause  for  that)  and 
declared  that  "progress  is  religion."  He 
anticipated  the  theme  of  economic  oppor- 
tunity that  would  be  associated  with  the 
statue. 

President  Grover  Cleveland  observed 
conventionally  that  the  statue  would 
"pierce  the  darkness  of  ignorance  and 


man's  oppression,"  but  added  the  new  and 
forbidding  warning  that  it  would  be  "our 
own  deity  keeping  watch  and  ward  before 
the  open  gates." 

W.  A.  LeFaivre,  representing  France, 
praised  a  century  of  American  dedication 
to  liberty,  saying,  "The  republics  of  the 
past  were  debased  by  hostility  to  for- 
eigners, by  arbitrary  and  brutal  power,  and 
by  slavery."  He  apparently  forgot  how 
recently  his  host  country  had  stopped 
debasing  itself  by  slavery;  and  he  ignored 
or  was  unaware  of  recent  bombs,  strikes, 
and  laws,  which  were,  in  those  very  years, 
making  Americans  fearful  of  immi- 
grants—a strain  predating  the  1880s  and 
one  that  has  not  been  quelled. 

In  the  major  address,  the  Hon. 
Chauncey  M.  Depew  suggested  that,  with 
the  backing  of  the  Bill  of  Rights,  "the 
problems  of  labor  and  capital,  regenera- 
tion and  moral  growth,  of  property  and 
poverty,  will  work  themselves  out  under 
the  benign  influence  of  enlightened  law- 
making and  law-abiding  liberty."  Alone 
among  the  speakers,  he  hinted  at  what 
would  become  the  chief  association:  "The 
rays  from  this  beacon,  lighting  this  gate- 
way to  the  continent,  will  welcome  the 
poor  and  the  persecuted  with  the  hope  and 
promise  of  homes  and  citizenship." 

It  is,  no  doubt,  too  easy  to  see  the 
defects  in  the  optimism  of  that  drizzly  day. 
The  orators  reaffirmed  a  history  they  but 
poorly  interpreted.  They  insisted  on  a 
social  unity  among  Americans  that  did  not 
exist,  and  an  identity  of  interests  that  con- 
tradicted the  very  idea  of  individualism 
they  also  espoused.  They  spoke  of  a  com- 
monality of  economic  classes  that  was  vio- 
lated in  the  ceremonies  themselves;  Trach- 
tenberg  points  out  that  the  masses  who 
helped  pay  for  the  pedestal  (the  American 
contribution  to  the  structure)  viewed  the 
proceedings  from  afar,  while  the  big  shots 
who,  for  the  most  part,  had  withheld  their 
resources  were  invited  to  sail  their  boats 
into  the  harbor  and  watch  the  fireworks. 

The  meanings  expressed  that  day  were 
too  many,  and  too  discrepant,  for  one 
object  to  represent.  Yet  it  is  the  fate  of  the 
statue  to  bear  them  all,  various  ones  being 
emphasized  at  different  times. 

To  taste  the  flavor  of  the  changes  in 
meaning,  let  us  follow  the  argument  of 
John  Higham.  His  ideas  will  influence 
later  thought  because  he  has  been  retained 
as  a  consultant  for  the  firm  putting 
together  the  Statue  Story  Museum. 

The  French  rationale  for  the  gift,  he 
says,  varied  from  the  American  idea  of  it 
as  early  as  1876,  with  the  appearance  of 
the  arm  and  torch  at  the  Philadelphia  cen- 


MAY  1985       XV 


tennial,  because  the  statue  became  firmly 
linked  with  American  independence. 
Many  decades  passed  before  it  was  looked 
on  as  a  symbol  of  welcome. 

Higham  points  out  that,  despite  an  occa- 
sional allusion  to  the  statue  as  beckoner  in 
the  19th  century  (like  Depew's),  "the  per- 
ception remained  inert;  it  lacked  any 
mythic  power."  The  most  significant  early 
statement  of  that  sort  was  the  sonnet  by 
Emma  Lazarus  ("Give  me  your  tired,  your 
poor,  /  Your  huddled  masses  yearning  to 
breathe  free,  /  The  wretched  refuse  of  your 
teeming  shore,"  etc.).  Written  in  1883  for 
an  auction  raising  funds  for  the  pedestal,  it 
was  motivated  by  her  revulsion  at  pogroms 
of  Jews  in  Russia  and  her  own  newly 
awakened  Jewish  identity.  But  the  poem 
was  not  mentioned  at  the  dedication.  It 
was  affixed  to  the  statue  only  in  1903, 
without  fanfare,  long  after  Lazarus  had 
died,  and  even  then  attracted  no  notice. 

Meanwhile,  Higham  continues,  immi- 
grants who  entered  at  New  York— the  vast 
majority  did— were  moved  by  the  statue. 
But  there  was  little  public  sense  that  it  rep- 
resented an  asylum  of  safety  and  opportu- 
nity. In  1936,  speaking  at  the  50th  anni- 
versary of  the  statue,  President  Franklin 
D.  Roosevelt  passed  over  that  association 
with  only  a  solitary  reference. 

In  the  late  1930s,  that  idea  grew. 
Higham  attributes  the  different  outlook  to 
a  turn  of  American  opinion  against  racism, 
which  "coincided"  with  the  plight  of  Jews 
escaping  Nazism.  And  there  was  a  third 
element— a  publicist.  That  was  Louis 
Adamic,  a  writer  who  had  immigrated 
from  Yugoslavia  and  who  quoted  Lazarus 
in  virtually  every  article  he  wrote  and 
every  speech  he  made.  And  he  prevailed. 
Higham  observes  that  the  statue,  seen  as 
defending  the  shores  during  the  great  flood 
of  immigration  ending  with  restrictive 
laws  in  1924,  was  viewed  as  a  symbol  of 
welcome  only  when  the  gates  were  all  but 
shut. 

Subsequently,  the  statue's  softening 
influence  also  prevailed,  Higham  con- 
cludes. Mass  immigration,  he  argues,  had 
opened  rifts  in  American  society  that  the 
statue,  in  its  new  meaning,  helped  close- 
culminating  in  its  influence  upon  1965  leg- 
islation to  relax  the  immigration  laws. 

The  statue's  meaning  has  undergone 
changes  because  the  United  States  speaks 
in  multiple  voices.  So,  at  least,  Garry 
Wills,  the  political  commentator,  sug- 
gests. He  points  out  that  Thomas  Jeffer- 
son, in  Notes  on  the  State  of  Virginia, 
wanted  to  limit  immigration,  in  an  early 
demonstration  of  nativism.  Yet,  Wills, 
who  serves  as  professor  of  American  cul- 


ture and  public  policy  at  Northwestern 
University,  says,  "our  sense  of  ourselves 
is  that  we're  a  welcoming  people,  without 
those  prejudices." 

And  the  irony  continues.  Just  when  the 
statue  is  being  refurbished,  immigrant 
groups  from  South  Asia  and  Central  and 
South  America  are  being  turned  away. 
"Our  immigration  rules  and  our  general 
rules  for  admittance  have  always  been 
rather  strange,"  Wills  says.  "There's  been 
a  constant  tension  in  our  history  between 
wanting  to  keep  ourselves  a  separate  peo- 
ple, pure,  unentangled  with  the  mass,  and 
wanting  to  have  influence  over  the  world, 
which,  obviously,  means  being  open  to  the 
world."  Should,  then,  Americans  look 
upon  themselves  as  hypocrites?  "I  don't 
know  about  that.  We're  not  perfect,"  he 
replies.  "We're  not  one  personality. 
America  is  a  lot  of  people  doing  a  lot  of 
different  things,  saying  a  lot  of  different 
things  which  are  contradictory— but  which 
are  not  hypocritical  because  they  are  dif- 
ferent people  doing  the  voicing." 

Immigrants  can  still  have  the  primal 
statue  experience.  It  happened  to  the 
Welsh  Martin  Evans  and  his  Swiss  wife 
when  they  left  England  for  one  of  the  basic 
reasons  associated  with  the  statue,  eco- 
nomic opportunity— in  his  case,  a  teaching 
post  at  Stanford  University,  where  he  is  a 
professor  of  English.  "We  were,  by  no 
means,  the  wretched  and  the  oppressed," 
he  allows.  "We  passed  the  statue— it's  a 
very  moving  experience.  We  both  wept 
when  we  passed  it.  There  it  was,  in  the 
dawn,  and  it  was  an  extraordinarily  mov- 
ing sight."  His  disembarking  was  mythi- 
cal, too.  "We  were  made  to  feel  at  home 
by,  believe  it  or  not,  immigration  officials. 
I  was  greeted  by  one  who  said,  'Welcome 
to  the  United  States,  prof.'  Well,  nobody 
had  ever  called  me  'prof  in  my  life 
before,  and  certainly  no  immigration  offi- 
cial in  Europe  would  ever  think  of  uttering 
the  word  'welcome'." 

Evans  acknowledges,  however,  that  the 
statue  has  "lost  a  certain  amount  of  its 
symbolic  significance"  because  "the 
immigrations  are  occurring  behind  her 
back— she's  facing  the  wrong  way." 

Philip  Young  feels  that  Lazarus 's  words 
are  so  strongly  tied  to  the  statue  that  they 
have  kept  it  alive  as  a  symbol — which  may 
be  its  undoing  as  a  cultural  factor.  "It's 
almost  reversed  itself— not,  it  seems  to 
me,  through  any  hostility  or  inhospitality 
on  our  part,  but  the  fact  that  there's  a  limit 
to  the  numbers  of  people  we  can  absorb," 
he  says.  "In  other  words,  immigration 
has  become  a  problem  rather  than  an 
opportunity." 


Today,  he  continues,  the  statue  is  chiefly 
symbolic  "of  how  we  got  where  we  are.  It 
reminds  us  of  the  past."  He  compares  it  to 
a  bust  of  George  Washington.  "To  me,  it's 
a  kind  of  pious— in  the  best  sense— a  ges- 
ture of  piety,  to  remember  that  once  we 
were  all  immigrants." 

Dean  MacCannell,  an  anthropologist 
writing  a  book  on  American  "mytholo- 
gies," says  that  he  is  tempted  to  view  the 
internal  "crumbling"  as  symbolic  in  itself. 
Not  that  the  country  is  corrupt,  he 
explains,  but  that  Europe  is  not  the  source 
of  new  blood.  "But  I  don't  think  it's  so 
much  that  the  borders  are  closing  down. 
From  the  West  Coast  standpoint"— he 
teaches  at  the  University  of  California 
at  Davis— "the  borders  are  wide  open. 
There  is  a  visible  new  minority  arriving 
constantly. 

"This  restoration  almost  seems  to  be  a 
capstone  on  a  former  type  of  migration," 
he  continues,  "the  end  and  the  rendering 
historical,  basically,  of  the  European 
migrations— and  the  transformation  of  that 
statue  into  a  historical  monument  rather 
than  a  living,  'crumbling'  device.  It's  as  if 
we  are  acknowledging  the  history  by 
restoring  the  statue." 

McCannell  has  an  approving  view  of 
tourists  (he  explained  it  in  his  book  The 
Tourist),  which  he  applies  to  the  statue.  To 
him,  tourists  are  not  the  superficial  glean- 
ers of  experience  as  they  are  convention- 
ally derided.  Instead,  they  "attempt  to  dis- 
cover or  reconstruct  a  cultural  heritage  or  a 
social  identity." 

Gradually,  a  monument  like  the  statue 
undergoes  "site  sacrilization."  As  a 
national  symbol,  "it  partakes  of  the  sacred 
in  a  strict  and  literal  sense,"  he  says.  "And 
that  presents  us  with  an  enormous  double 
bind:  We're  not  supposed  to  fiddle  around 
with  things  that  are  sacred.  On  the  other 
hand,  we're  not  supposed  to  let  them  fall 
apart,  either." 

That  dilemma  helps  assure  that  the  res- 
toration and  preservation  will  be  done  as 
authentically  as  possible,  McCannell  indi- 
cates. The  rehabilitation,  if  sensitively 
carried  out,  will  enhance  the  quality  of  the 
visit;  and  that,  in  turn,  will  heighten  the 
"total  and  unmotivated  awe,"  the  feeling 
akin  to  a  religious  experience,  that  visitors 
have.  The  quasi-religious  experience  at 
the  statue  is  enriched,  he  continues,  by  the 
fact  that  "it  has  its  value  stamped  on  it, 
like  a  coin:  liberty." 

Marshall  Ledger  is  associate  editor  of 
another  American  institution,  The  Penn- 
sylvania Gazette,  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania 's  alumni  magazine. 


XVI       ALUMNI  MAGAZINE  CONSORTIUM 


The  address  given  at  Fall  Commencement,  October  8,  1984, 

by  Dr.  Wilmer  L.  Kranich,  Dean  of  Graduate  Studies 

and  Gordon  Professor  of  Chemical  Engineering. 


Looking  Ahead 
By  Looking  Back 


Editor's  Note:  Dr.  Kranich  retires  at  the 
end  of  June.  Thirty-seven  graduating 
classes  have  passed  through  WPI  during 
his  tenure  on  the  Hill. 

He  retires  at  a  time  when  post-graduate 
education  at  WPI  is  becoming  a  more  vital 
element  of  the  Institute  than  ever  before. 
He  leaves  a  foundation  of  excellence  in 
teaching  and  leadership  on  which  the  next 
generation  of  graduate  education  will 
surelx  be  built. 


"As  you  are  now,  so  once  was  I 
As  I  am  now,  so  shall  you  be." 

These  lines  are  a  rather  strange  introduc- 
tion to  a  commencement  address,  particu- 
larly when  you  realize  that  they  are  the  two 
middle  lines  of  a  verse  frequently  seen  on 
tombstones  in  the  cemeteries  of  Colonial 
America.  The  occupant  of  the  grave  sol- 
emnly reminds  us  that  we  will  follow  all 
too  soon  beneath  the  sod. 

My  use  of  this  little  verse  is  far  more 
cheerful.  I  use  it  in  my  year  of  retirement 
to  remind  myself  and  you  that  I  once  had 
your  place  in  similar  ceremonies,  and  that 
in  due  course  you  shall  have  mine. 

Forty-four  years  ago  I  sat  at  my  com- 
mencement at  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania listening  to  President  Roosevelt 
address  my  class.  (That  was  Franklin  D. 
Roosevelt,  not  Theodore!)  Forty-odd 
years  from  now  you  can  expect  to  retire, 
unless  by  then  the  means  of  prolonging  life 
and  canceling  or  slowing  the  aging  process 
have  been  discovered. 

What  can  you  look  forward  to  in  the 
approaching  decades?   We  can  envision 


some  ideas  of  at  least  the  magnitude  of  the 
expected  changes  by  looking  back  at  the 
changes  that  have  occurred  in  my  profes- 
sional lifetime. 

Let's  begin  with  one  of  the  less  impor- 
tant matters:  the  value  of  money.  When  I 
was  in  your  place,  postage  for  a  first-class 
letter  was  two  cents.  The  same  amount 
bought  the  daily  newspaper.  The  starting 
salary  of  my  fellow  graduating  engineers 
was  about  $1 ,800  per  year. 

If  you  scale  up  these  figures  with  the 
same  inflation  as  has  occurred  between 
then  and  now  and  look  ahead  to  your 
retirement  year,  mailing  a  letter  or  buying 
a  newspaper  will  cost  $3.00  (if  indeed 
anyone  still  mails  letters  or  reads  newspa- 
pers), and  the  starting  salary  of  the  new 
graduate  engineer  will  be  $350,000  (if 
there  still  is  such  a  designation). 

But  my  main  interest  today  is  not  in  talk- 


ing about  money,  important  as  that  may  be 
in  determining  our  life  styles.  I  really  want 
to  look  at  technological  change.  There  is 
no  way  to  use  my  experience  to  predict 
what  science  and  technology  will  be  like  in 
the  2020s  when  you  can  expect  to  retire. 
But  you  can  use  my  experience  to  suggest 
the  magnitude  of  the  changes  you  are 
likely  to  encounter. 

Probably  the  greatest  differences 
between  1940  and  now  are  in  the 
ways  we  handle  information  and 
make  calculations.  My  college  calculator 
was  the  slide  rule.  You  probably  don't 
even  know  how  to  use  one — or  care  to,  for 
that  matter. 

In  my  first  years  at  WPI,  the  head  of  the 
Physics  Department,  Dr.  Morton  Masius, 
would  astound  freshmen  students  by  per- 
forming complicated  mental  multiplica- 
tions and  divisions.  His  tool  was  a  three- 
place  table  of  logarithms  which  he  had 
memorized.  I  doubt  that  many  of  you  have 
ever  even  used  a  log  table,  much  less 
memorized  one. 

When  I  was  at  Pennsylvania  as  an 
undergraduate,  there  was  in  the  basement 
of  the  electrical  engineering  building  a 
vast  mechanical  array  of  cams  and  gears: 
the  mechanical  differential  analyzer.  A 
short  time  later  in  that  same  room,  the  first 
major  digital  electronic  computer,  the 
ENIAC,  was  developed.  This  was  a  mar- 
vel of  thousands  of  vacuum  tubes  whose 
computing  power  was  but  a  fraction  of  that 
of  my  current  pocket  calculator,  and 
whose  electrical  energy  requirement  was 
millions  of  times  that  of  my  transistorized 
calculator,  whose  power  comes  from  the 
light  of  the  room.  There  was  no  television 


MAY  1985        37 


monitor  with  which  to  communicate,  and 
of  course  nothing  in  my  undergraduate 
curriculum  to  hint  at  programming  lan- 
guages like  Fortran  and  Pascal. 

Information  was  found  in  books  and 
journals  tucked  away  in  the  stacks  of  a 
library,  and  systematic  ways  of  retrieving 
data  from  a  variety  of  sources  reached 
their  highest  degree  of  sophistication  in 
journals  like  Chemical  Abstracts. 

In  the  short  span  of  my  professional 
lifetime  I  have  had  to  cope  with  a  huge 
array  of  computing  devices  which  have 
advanced  at  breakneck  speed,  with  new 
programming  languages  and  vast  banks  of 
information  accessible  at  the  touch  of  a 
keyboard. 

Can  you  expect  an  information  revolu- 
tion of  a  similar  magnitude?  Will  there  be 
direct  communication  between  the  brain  of 
man  and  the  artificial  intelligence  of  a 
computer?  Will  your  thought  processes  be 
controlled  electronically  from  an  external 
source?  Will  libraries  as  we  know  them 
disappear?  Will  printed  journals  and  books 
be  only  a  matter  of  history?  Or.  as  is  more 
likely,  will  the  changes  be  far  different  and 
perhaps  even  greater  than  those  we  are 
contemplating  here? 

The  key  point  for  you  as  new  graduates 
is  not  so  much  that  changes  will  occur,  but 
that  you  mil  be  able  to  deal  with  them  just 
as  my  generation  has  been  able  to.  My 
college  education  did  not  give  me  the  facts 
and  tools  needed  for  a  professional  life- 
time, but  it  did  give  me  the  means  and 
attitudes  and  approaches  to  meet  those 
challenges  through  continuing  work  and 
study.  Your  education  will  do  the  same  if 
you  do  not  regard  it  as  a  program  which 
has  ended,  but  as  a  process  which  has  just 
begun.  "Education  for  lifetime  learning" 
and  "learning  to  learn"  are  not  just  catch 
phrases  from  college  recruiting  publica- 
tions. They  are  our  challenge  as  teachers 
and  yours  as  students,  now  and  for  the 
future. 

But.  of  course,  the  value  of  money  and 
the  handling  of  information  and  calcula- 
tions are  not  the  only  major  changes  which 
have  come  about  within  my  memory.  My 


A  Veteran  for  the  Cause 


Dr.  Wilmer  Kranich  arrived  on  the 
WPI  campus  in  1948  as  an  associate 
professor  of  chemical  engineering.  His 
credentials  were  impressive— a  B.S. 
from  the  University  of  Pennsylvania,  a 
doctorate  from  Cornell  University, 
World  War  II  service  as  a  Naval  officer 
engaged  in  rocket  research,  and  a  two- 
year  stint  as  an  assistant  professor  at 
Princeton  University. 

He  and  WPI  were  obviously  a  good 
match.  A  year  later,  he  was  appointed  a 
full  professor  at  the  age  of  29,  the 
youngest  ever  to  attain  the  rank  at  WPI. 

Think  for  a  moment  about  the  WPI 
of  1948.  when  Wil  Kranich  began  his 
lifelong  career:  a  student  body  of  895. 
of  whom  35  were  graduate  students:  no 
evening  graduate  program.  The 
Washburn  Shops  were  still  operating  as 
a  commercial  business.  What  today  is 
the  Project  Center  was  a  working 
foundry.  Sanford  Riley  was  the  only 
dormitory. 

Certainly,  WPI  was  different  from 
the  campuses  Wil  Kranich  had  known 
before  coming  to  Worcester.  And  the 
Institute  today  is  far  more  than  the 
"Worcester  Tech"  that  greeted  him  37 
years  ago.  Helping  to.  make  these 
changes  has  been  the  challenge  Wil 
Kranich  eagerly  accepted  during  nearly 
four  decades. 

Throughout  his  long  career  at  WPI, 
he  has  strived  for  excellence  in  teach- 
ing and  opportunities  for  students.  In 
his  17  years  as  department  head,  the 
Department  of  Chemical  Engineering 
grew  in  size  and  worldwide  recognition 
for  its  research  in  such  areas  as  molecu- 
lar sieve  zeolites.  He  played  a  key  role 
in  the  design  of  Goddard  Hall,  which 
replaced  Salisbury  Laboratories  as  the 
home  of  Chemical  Engineering  and 
Chemistry  in  1965. 

Wil  was  appointed  the  first  George 
C.  Gordon  Professor  of  Chemical 
Engineering.  During  the  development 
of  the  WPI  Plan,  he  strongly  supported 
increased  opportunities  for  academic 


excellence  in  all  departments. 

Since  1974.  he  has  held  the  dual 
posts  of  professor  of  chemical  engi- 
neering and  dean  of  graduate  studies. 
In  the  former  role,  he  has  been  able  to 
devote  more  time  to  the  research  he 
loves.  He  has  authored  more  than  30 
professional  papers,  the  most  recent  of 
which  involves  the  hydrogenation  of 
acetylene  using  palladium  zeolite  cata- 
lysts. This  work  was  done  during  a  sab- 
batical leave  at  the  Hungarian  Acad- 
emy of  Sciences  in  Budapest  in  1983. 

During  his  tenure  as  dean,  graduate 
education  has  expanded  to  include  doc- 
toral programs  in  biomedical  science. 
computer  science,  materials  engineer- 
ing and  interdisciplinary  studies.  Mas- 
ter's programs  have  been  added  in  fire 
protection  engineering,  biology,  bio- 
technology, construction  management 
and  business  administration. 

In  addition  to  his  devotion  to  his  pro- 
fession. Wil  is  well  known  for  his  out- 
side interests.  "Have  black  tie.  will 
sing"  could  describe  his  interest  in  cho- 
ral singing.  He  has  been  for  many  years 
a  member  of  the  Worcester  Chorus, 
which  participates  in  the  annual  Wor- 
cester Music  Festival  and  the  Christ- 
mas season  performance  of  the  "The 
Messiah." 

Another  interest,  art,  he  shares  with 
Margaret,  his  wife  of  35  years.  With 
their  daughter,  Deborah,  the  Kranichs 
will  display  their  work  in  the  gallery  of 
the  Gordon  Library  from  May  3  to  June 
28,  1985.  Margaret  will  show  a  selec- 
tion of  portraits.  Deborah's  specialty  is 
abstract  and  semi-abstract. 

Wil  describes  what  he'll  show  this 
way.  "Originally  I  used  to  call  this 
junk  sculpture.'  but  now  that  I've 
become  better  at  it.  I  call  it  'construc- 
tions with  found  materials.'  "  Former 
students  and  friends  of  the  Kranichs  are 
invited  to  a  Reunion  Day  brunch  honor- 
ing them  on  June  1 .  It  will  be  in  God- 
dard Hall  from  8:30  to  10:00  am. 

Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.  '45 


first  flight  to  Europe  took  13  V2  hours  in 
the  air  and  required  refueling  stops  in  Gan- 
der. Newfoundland,  and  Shannon.  Ire- 
land. The  speed  of  sound  in  air  was 
regarded  as  the  upper  theoretical  limit  for 
aircraft.  Breaking  the  "sound  barrier"  was 
an  awesome  challenge  and  achievement. 
Robert  Goddard  '08  was  looked  on  as  a 


dreamer  when  he  wrote  about  the  means  of 
escape  from  the  earth's  gravitational  field 
and  the  possibility  of  a  flight  to  the  moon. 
Can  you  look  forward  to  transportation 
changes  of  an  equal  magnitude?  Vacations 
on  the  moon?  Colonization  of  another 
planet?  Even  the  speed  of  light  may  prove 
to  be  as  transitory  a  theoretical  limit  to 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Dean  Wilmer  Kranich  in  the  Unit  Opera- 
tions Laboratory,  built  during  his  tenure 
as  Chemical  Engineering  Department 
head,  1967-75.  From  1958  until  1967,  he 
also  headed  the  combined  departments  of 
Chemical  Engineering  and  Chemistry. 

your  generation  as  the  speed  of  sound  once 
was  to  mine. 

What  has  happened  in  communications 
during  my  lifetime?  The  first  radio  that  I 
can  remember  as  a  child  was  the  "super- 
heterodyne" (whatever  that  might  mean) 
that  my  father  tuned  with  the  aid  of  three 
big  black  dials,  and  which  produced  sound 
out  of  a  horn  that  looked  like  a  miniature 
tuba.  Messages  to  Europe  went  by  way  of 
the  transatlantic  cable. 

Then  came  communication  by  short- 
wave radio  and  the  miracle  of  television, 
followed  by  satellite  communication.  Now 
we  send  spacecraft  and  coded  messages 
into  outer  space  and  listen  for  responses 
from  intelligent  beings  elsewhere.  Perhaps 
in  your  time  you  may  hear  a  response  or 
even  be  visited  by  a  real-life  Extra  Terres- 
trial. 

The  discovery  of  the  double  helix  and 
partial  resolution  of  gene  coding  have 
been  a  part  of  the  experience  of  my  gener- 
ation. Gene  splicing  is  with  us  now:  what 
miracles  will  biology  and  biotechnology 
bring  in  your  professional  lifetime? 

During  the  second  world  war,  the  Navy 


assigned  me  to  work  on  rockets  and  guided 
missiles.  In  the  office  area  next  to  ours  at 
Caltech,  secret  work  was  going  on  which  I 
later  learned  was  the  development  of  the 
shaped-charge  explosive  device  which 
made  it  possible  to  reach  a  critical  mass  of 
uranium  quickly  enough  to  produce  an 
explosive  nuclear  fission— the  atom  bomb. 
Where  will  nuclear  physics  and  engineer- 
ing lead  your  generation? 

These  examples  of  genetic  engineer- 
ing and  nuclear  engineering  bring 
me  to  my  second  major  point 
regarding  your  education.  It  is  reasonable, 
though  not  commendable,  to  say  that, 
when  I  was  in  your  place,  technical 
responsibility  was  kept  rather  separate 
from  social  responsibility.  The  engineer 
was  responsible  for  the  process.  Someone 
else  was  responsible  for  the  applications 
and  their  consequences  or  side  effects. 

In  my  first  summer  job  during  college.  I 
ate  my  lunch  sitting  on  the  banks  of 
Frankford  Creek  in  Philadelphia.  Some 
days  the  creek  ran  bright  yellow,  other 
days  red  or  green,  as  the  dye  manufac- 
turing plant  upstream  discharged  its  off- 
quality  wastes.  It  didn't  matter.  The  col- 
ored stream  would  ultimately  find  its  way 
into  the  ocean  where  time  and  air  and  sun- 
light would  purify  it  all. 

On  another  summer  job  we  were 
instructed  to  get  rid  of  the  spent  catalyst 


dusts  from  our  petroleum  cracking  unit  by 
increasing  the  gas  velocity  and  blowing 
out  the  dust— at  night,  when  the  plume  of 
white  smoke  would  not  be  seen  and  thus 
not  needlessly  upset  the  neighbors,  but 
would  be  dispersed  harmlessly  into  the 
infinite  sky. 

Still  another  summer  job  in  a  chemical 
plant  resulted  in  symptoms  of  a  severe 
head  cold  in  the  workers  because  of  the 
large  excess  of  hydrochloric  acid  fume 
which  was  vented  to  the  interior  of  our 
building.  Supposedly,  we  were  told,  the 
problem  was  solved  by  opening  ammonia 
bottles.  The  ammonia  fumes  indeed  neu- 
tralized the  acid,  but  filled  the  air  with  the 
dense  white  smoke  of  ammonium  chlo- 
ride, so  that  we  could  not  see  from  one  end 
of  the  room  to  the  other. 

You  will  not  be  allowed  to  treat  social 
and  environmental  problems  in  these  naive 
and  short-sighted  ways.  You  have  learned 
that  the  problems  of  engineering  cannot  be 
solved  without  taking  into  account  effects 
on  health,  on  the  environment,  on  society. 
You  will  have  to  help  make  difficult  deci- 
sions about  the  limits  of  genetic  engineer- 
ing, about  the  consequences  of  advances 
in  nuclear  science  and  engineering,  about 
how  lasers  may  and  may  not  be  applied, 
about  allowable  side  effects  of  pesticides 
and  other  chemical  poisons,  and  about 
great  and  terrible  discoveries  still  to  be 
made. 

You  will  be  required  more  and  more  to 
evaluate  the  interrelations  of  science,  tech- 
nology and  society.  For  those  decisions 
your  education  (in  particular  your  under- 
graduate Interactive  Qualifying  Project) 
has  better  prepared  you  than  the  less  prag- 
matic education  I  received.  But  you  must 
always  be  aware  of  the  consequences  of 
the  materials  and  devices  and  products  you 
may  create  or  use. 

So  far  I  have  made  two  points— first, 
that  you  will,  before  very  long,  expe- 
rience tremendous  technological 
changes  and  need  to  respond  effectively  to 
those  changes;  and  second,  that  you  are 
indeed  obligated  to  share  responsibility  for 


MAY  1985       39 


the  societal  consequences  of  advances  in 
technology.  My  wife  tells  me  that  a  good 
sermon  should  contain  no  more  than  three 
points.  Since  these  remarks  have  turned 
into  something  like  a  sermon,  I  shall  make 
only  one  further,  and  relatively  brief,  point 
before  closing. 

This  has  to  do  with  changes  in  the  mean- 
ing and  conditions  of  work— changes 
which  I  have  experienced  and  which  you 
can  expect  to  find.  Long  before  I  entered 
professional  life,  the  abuses  of  child  labor 
and  the  sweat  shop  had  declined.  But 
assembly    line    production    was    in    its 


ascendancy,  with  its  stifling  effects  on 
pride  of  workmanship.  Individuality  of  the 
worker  was  submerged  in  collective  bar- 
gaining, and  the  size  of  the  paycheck 
replaced  the  challenges  of  the  job  as  the 
principal  incentive  for  many  workers. 

These  effects  spread  to  many  profes- 
sionals. The  employer  became  the  adver- 
sary. The  so-called  Puritan  Ethic  of  work- 
ing hard  to  get  the  job  done  in  the  best 
possible  way  diminished  severely.  This 
change  was  also  noted  in  the  attitude  of 
students.  For  many  the  objective  became 
getting  the  degree  with  minimum  effort— 


In  his  Boynton  Hall  Office,  overlooking 
Alden  Memorial  to  the  west  and  Stratton 
Hall  and  the  Washburn  Shops  to  the 
north,  Wil  Kranich  is  at  home  with  several 
found-object  pieces  of  sculpture  he  has 
constructed,  such  as  the  untitled  work 
shown  here.  His  sculpture,  along  with  the 
artistic  works  of  his  wife,  Margaret,  and 
daughter,  Deborah,  appear  in  an  exhibi- 
tion in  Gordon  Library,  May  3  through 
June  28. 

even  in  scientific  and  technical  programs. 
It  became  less  common  to  see  lights  burn- 
ing late  at  night  or  on  weekends  in  the 
laboratories  of  graduate  students  or,  it 
must  be  admitted,  in  the  offices  of  the  fac- 
ulty. 

Time  for  recreation  became  as  important 
as  time  for  work.  Many  would  argue  that 
this  is  good  for  the  whole  person,  and  I  can 
see  the  value  of  that  argument.  But  the 
standard  of  living  of  the  nation  and  of  the 
world  will  be  raised  only  as  worker  pro- 
ductivity increases. 

As  more  and  more  routine  work  in  the 
process  plant,  on  the  assembly  line,  and  in 
the  office  is  turned  over  to  automated  con- 
trols, robots  and  computer  programs,  you 
will  probably  see  a  considerable  shorten- 
ing of  the  work  week.  You  will  also  see  a 
corresponding  reduction  in  the  efforts  of 
many  professionals.  But  I  hope  you  will 
view  the  reduction  in  routine  tasks  as  a 
challenge  to  spend  greater  effort  on  crea- 
tive activities  for  which  your  education  has 
prepared  you. 

Increased  productivity  can  result  from 
fewer  working  hours  only  when  new  ideas 
are  pumped  into  the  system  by  creative 
people— you!  If  you  succumb  to  a  work 
ethic  which  allows  you  just  to  get  by  with 
what  is  needed  to  accomplish  narrowly 
defined  assigned  tasks,  there  will  be  little 
progress  toward  a  goal  of  world  improve- 
ment. 

"As  you  are  now,  so  once  was  I.  As  I 
am  now,  so  shall  you  be."  I  invite  you  to 
fully  meet  the  challenges  and  enjoy  the 
opportunities  of  the  four-decade  journey 
that  lies  ahead. 


40       WPI  JOURNAL 


The  lights  dim;  soft  rock 
music  fills  the  hall. 
Soon,  three  models— two 
young  women  and  a  man- 
stroll  out  from  behind  the  stage 
curtain  to  an  expectant  audi- 
ence. They  continue  out  on  a 
raised  runway.  You'd  swear 
they  were  professional  models. 
The  looks  are  right,  the  moves 
rehearsed,  the  fashions  straight 
out  of  New  York,  Paris  and 
Milan. 

Seventh    Avenue    in    New 
York?  Far  from  it. 

The  scene  is  in  Alden  Memo- 
rial. The  occasion  is  the  first 
annual  Dress  for  Success  fash- 
ion show,  sponsored  by  the 
WPI  Student  Alumni  Society 
(SAS).  The  models  are  all  WP1 
students— and  SAS  members — most  of 
whom  had  never  even  considered  strutting 
the  latest  in  on-the-job  wardrobes  in  front 
of  their  friends  and  classmates,  all  eager  to 
catch  up  on  what's  "in"  in  clothing  for 
young  professionals. 

SAS  is  one  of  the  most  active  and  fast- 
est-growing groups  on  campus,  a  link 
between  the  activities  of  the  current  stu- 
dent body  and  WPI  alumni— and  the 


Maureen  McCaffrey  '86  of  Hopkinton, 
MA,  was  one  of  15  students— all  members 
of  the  Student  Alumni  Society— to  grace 
Alden  Memorial  with  the  latest  fashions. 

future  of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

SAS  was  revived  in  the  1982-83  school 
year  by  a  dozen  or  so  students.  Among 
other  things,  they  wanted  to  restore  the 
Alden  Tower  carillon,   a  fixture   in  the 


memories  of  many  alumni,  but 
an  antique  that  had  sat  silent  for 
several  years.  But  this  was  just 
the  beginning. 

Since  then,   SAS  members 
have  distributed   "Good  Stuff 
Boxes,"   containing  toiletries 
and  such,  to  incoming  fresh- 
men. At  Homecoming,  mem- 
bers organize  the  parade  of 
floats  and  serve  in  other  volun- 
tary roles,  as  they  do  on  Par- 
ents Day  in  the  fall.  In  April, 
they  conduct  a  program  called 
"Managing     Your     Salary," 
bringing  in  experts   in  fields 
such  as  banking,   real  estate, 
securities,    taxes    and    legal 
issues  to  advise  students  who 
will  soon  enter  the  professional 
job  market. 
And  in  April,  WPI  Traditions  Day,  a 
cookout  designed  to  acquaint  alumni  and 
students  with  each  other  and  with  WPI  tra- 
ditions, was  held  this  year  at  the  Higgins 
House. 

Junior  Jeanne  Benjamin,  of  Chicopee, 
MA,  headed  the  Dress  for  Success  event. 
Juniors  and  seniors,  mostly,  filled  Alden, 
since  they  are  the  students  most  concerned 
about  summer  jobs  and  interviews.  In  all. 


Student  Alumni  Society  members  are  busy 

keeping  WPI  traditions  alive — 

and  creating  some  new  ones  of  their  own,  while  they  are 

GETTING  A  HEADSTART 
ON  ALUMNISHIP 

By  Kirsten  Storm  '85 


MAY  1985       41 


a 


15  models,  recruited  from  the  SAS  mem- 
bership, made  the  evening  something  out 
of  the  ordinary  at  WPI. 

"The  main  reason  we  used  student 
models  instead  of  professionals,"  explains 
Jeanne,  "was  to  attract  other  students, 
who  we  knew  would  come  to  see  someone 
they  know  modeling.  This  is  a  practical 
event,"  she  adds.  "Nearly  half  the  student 
body  is  currently  going  through  the  inter- 
viewing process." 

Reflecting  on  the  event,  Jeanne  admits 
that  she  could  never  have  predicted  the 
work  that  she  ended  up  having  to  put  into 
it.  She  began  the  process  last  fall,  she 
says,  and  worked  right  through  the  winter. 
"But  I  learned  so  much  about  managing 
people  and  organizing  an  event.  It  was  a 
great  experience  for  me." 

In  addition  to  arranging  with  La  Fem- 
mina  modeling  school  to  train  the  student 
models  and  Jordan  Marsh  to  loan  the  fash- 
ions, Jeanne  also  persuaded  local  busi- 
nesses to  donate  door  prizes.  Students 
who  attended  agreed  that  the  "show"  was 
a  big  hit.  As  for  the  models,  they  seemed 
to  enjoy  themselves  as  well. 

One  model,  Barbara  Parady  '86,  of 
Stafford  Springs,  CT,  says,  "At  first,  I 
was  very  nervous,  but  then  I  saw  friends 
in  the  audience,  and  I  just  relaxed  and 
smiled  naturally." 

The  Student  Alumni  Society  was  actu- 
ally founded  in  the  early  1970s,  but 
because  of  lack  of  interest  more  recently, 
the  SAS  had  become  dormant.  In  1982, 
Deborah  Scott,  then  Assistant  Director  of 
Alumni  Programs,  approached  a  junior, 
Katherine  Kruczek  '84,  for  help  in  reviv- 
ing the  Society.  Kathy  was  at  that  time 
working  on  restoring  the  old  carillon  in 
Alden  and  revising  the  Tech  Bible,  a 
pocket  volume  known  to  all  freshman 
until  it  ceased  publication  in  the  late  '60s. 

Together  with  Patricia  Flaherty  '75, 
Kathy  and  Deb  drew  up  the  by-laws  of  the 
club.  They  also  convinced  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  to  allow  student  rep- 
resentation on  the  Executive  Committee. 

"This,"  says  Kathy,  "was  our  first  big 
step.  It  was  the  first  time  that  students  had 


There  seems  to  be 
genuine  interest 
among  students  in 
getting  involved 

with  SAS," 
— Diana  Sauer  '86 


ever  been  represented  on  the  board  of  the 
Association."  Thus  was  SAS  born,  with 
Kathy  acting  as  the  first  chairperson,  Deb 
Scott  as  the  Alumni  Office  Advisor  and 
Pat  Flaherty  as  the  Alumni  Advisor. 

Soon,  a  committee  of  12  to  15  students 
was  organized,  most  of  whom  were  se- 
niors at  the  time,  to  work  on  the  Tech 
Bible,  which  was  printed  in  the  summer  of 
1983  and  distributed  to  both  freshmen  and 
upperclassmen  in  the  fall. 

Meanwhile,  Kathy,  with  the  help  of 
other  SAS  members,  Dean  of  Students 
Bemie  Brown,  and  Stephen  Hebert  '66, 
Director  of  Development  and  Alumni 
Relations,  worked  on  restoring  the  old 
carillon.  But,  alas,  it  couldn't  be  repaired 
effectively.  So  with  financial  support  from 
the  Class  of  1944,  a  new  electronic  caril- 
lon was  installed  in  May  1984. 

Today,  junior  Diana  Sauer,  of  Millbury, 
MA,  serves  as  SAS  chairperson.  Under 
her  direction,  the  club  held  its  first  cam- 
pus-wide recruitment  this  past  year. 

"The  response  was  overwhelming," 
says  Diana.  "No  fewer  than  115  people 
have  signed  on,  and  at  least  that  many 
more  wrote  in  to  express  interest." 

At  that  point,  members  decided  that  a 
more  organized  structure  was  necessary, 
so  the  club  was  divided  into  several  stand- 
ing  committees,    each   headed   by    an 


involved,  long-standing  SAS  member. 

These  groups'  organizational  strategies 
are  enabling  SAS  to  accomplish  more  and 
bigger  events.  This  past  Christmas,  for 
example,  SAS  held  a  party  at  the  Goat's 
Head  Pub  for  students  and  administration. 

How  does  WPI's  SAS  stack  up  against 
other  schools'  programs?  Anne  Marie 
Angelico,  Director  of  Alumni  Programs 
and  current  SAS  Alumni  Office  Advisor, 
is  pleased— to  say  the  least.  "I  recently 
got  a  chance,"  she  says,  "to  see  how  other 
local  colleges  are  doing,  since  their  stu- 
dent-alumni clubs  started  about  the  same 
time  ours  did.  WPI's  is  much  larger  and 
more  active  than  any  others  that  began  at 
the  same  time." 

She  claims  that  working  with  SAS 
members  is  "one  of  the  highlights  of  my 
job."  And,  she  adds,  "The  Alumni  Execu- 
tive Committee  and  Council  have  taken  on 
a  new  dimension  with  the  presence  of  SAS 
members. 

Kathy  Kruczek,  now  Kathy  Vignaly, 
thanks  to  her  marriage  in  1984  to  Joseph 
Vignaly  '82,  shares  Ann  Marie's  zeal  for 
the  club.  She  is  currently  serving  as  an 
alumni  advisor. 

"It  feels  so  good  to  experience  the  con- 
tinuing enthusiasm  of  the  club.  I  am  so 
impressed  by  the  size— it  grew  so  fast!  It 
really  gives  me  a  warm  feeling  to  find 
people  who  are  just  as  concerned  about 
WPI,  its  traditions  and  its  future,  as  we 
were  when  we  helped  revive  the  Society." 

Student  support  is  evident  as  well. 
When  asked,  most  respond  that  they 
joined  mainly  because  of  the  variety  of 
activities  offered.  One  student  wanted  to 
"get  involved  in  alumni-related  events" 
while  others  simply  knew  a  friend  already 
involved  in  SAS  who  enjoyed  it. 

Others  say  they  find  the  activities  a 
refreshing,  enjoyable,  and  valuable  expe- 
rience—one that  offers  them  an  opportu- 
nity for  more— and  more  worthwhile 
interchanges  with  the  WPI  community. 

Kirsten  Storm  '85  of  Gardner,  MA,  is 
former  editor  o/Newspeak,  the  WPI  stu- 
dent newspaper,  and  an  SAS  member. 


42       WPI  JOURNAL 


WPI  CIASS  NOTES 


Dear  WPI  Graduate: 

What's  new  with  you?  Let  us  know  and  we'll  share  it  with  your  fellow  alumni  in 

the  Journal  class  notes. 

Thanks! 

Stephen  Hebert  '66,  Director  of  Alumni  Relations 


Please  print 
Name 


Class 


Please  check  preferred  mailing  address 

□  Home 

City State 

□  Company 

Title 


_Zip 


Address 
City 


Personal,  career,  family  news  for  Journal 


State 


_Zip 


Please  clip  and  mail  to: 
Ruth  Trask 

Alumni  Information  Editor 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
100  Institute  Road 
Worcester,  MA  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President,  Harry  W.  Tenney,  '56 
Senior  Vice  President 

Paul  W.  Bayliss,  '60 
Vice  President 

Richard  B.  Kennedy,  '65 
Secretary -Treasurer 

Stephen  J.  Herbert,  '66 
Past  President,  Peter  H.  Horstmann,  '55 

Executive  Committee 

Members-at-Large 
Henry  P.  Allessio,  '61 
Walter  J.  Bank,  '46 
William  J.  Firla,  Jr.,  '60 
Patricia  A.  Graham  Flaherty,  '75 


Fund  Board 

Allen  H.  Levesque,  '59,  Chair 
Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  Jr.,  '56 
Richard  A.  Davis,  '53 
Michael  A.  DiPierro,  '68 
C.  John  Lindegren,  Jr.,  '39 
David  B.  Denniston,  '58 
Francis  W.  Madigan,  Jr.,  '53 
George  P.  Strom,  '56 


1908 


Sumner  Davis  of  Lexington,  KY,  one  of  the 
longest-serving  Boy  Scout  leaders  in  the  U.S., 


celebrated  his  100th  birthday  on  Jan.  28.  He 
served  as  a  Scout  volunteer  for  more  than  50 
years  (30  years  as  Scoutmaster)  and  also  held 
posts  as  a  merit  badge  examiner,  a  committee 
member  of  several  councils,  an  executive  board 
member  of  the  Birmingham,  AL,  council  and  a 
chairman  of  a  Sea  Scout  committee.  In  1933, 
he  won  the  highest  Scouting  honor  an  adult  can 
receive,  the  Silver  Beaver  Award. 

Davis  worked  at  a  nitrate  plant  at  Mussel 
Shoals,  AL,  during  World  War  I  and  in  the 
1920s  owned  a  planing  mill  at  Athens,  AL.  A 
former  electrical  engineer  with  the  Alabama 
Power  Co.  in  Birmingham,  he  retired  at  65  and 
later  served  the  company  as  a  consultant.  He 
then  became  a  bookkeeper  for  his  son,  Dr. 
Sumner  Danforth  Davis,  and  retired  for  the  sec- 
ond time,  at  age  90,  following  his  son's  death. 


1920 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Milt  Garland,  now  retired  as  vice  president  of 
engineering,  continues  as  a  consultant  at  Frick 
Co.,  Waynesboro,  PA.  He  is  internationally 
recognized  as  an  expert  in  compressor  technol- 
ogy, refrigeration  and  heat  transfer  and  is 
regarded  throughout  the  U.S.  as  "Mr.  Refriger- 
ation" by  his  peers  in  the  industry.  A  fellow  of 
the  American  Society  of  Heating,  Refrigeration 
and  Air  Conditioning  Engineering,  he  received 
the  society's  distinguished  service  award.  The 
Frick  Co.  annually  awards  two  Milt  Garland 
College  Scholarships  to  children  of  employees. 


1924 


\\  infield  Gove  and  his  wife,  Sylvia,  whom  he 
married  last  August,  reside  in  Belleair,  FL. 


1925 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


1926 

Hap  Wendin  writes  that  life  doesn't  begin  at 
40,  but  at  80!  The  Wendins'  latest  project  is  the 
Elderhostel  program  in  both  Europe  and  the 
U.S.  They  expect  to  be  in  Mexico  for  about  a 
month,  then  return  to  the  "grindstone  of  bridge, 
lapidary  interests  and  Spanish  and  creative  atti- 
tude programs,"  which  they  serve  as  leaders. 


MAY  1985       43 


1929 


Arthur  Burr  serves  as  a  visiting  professor  in 
the  mechanical  engineering  department  at  the 
University  of  Texas  in  Austin. 


1930 


Reunion 


May  30- June  2,  1985 


1933 

Vincent  Buell  is  a  classmate  whose  retirement 
hasn't  been  a  real  retirement.  A  project  engi- 
neer for  Stubbs,  Overbeck  &  Associates  of 
Houston,  TX,  he  retired  in  1974  to  Parkers- 
burg,  WV,  only  to  be  recalled  to  work  for 
another  year.  Once  back  in  Parkersburg,  he  rep- 
resented the  city  during  the  construction  of  a 
new  city  hall.  He  also  served  as  resident  inspec- 
tor on  a  high-rise  building  for  the  elderly.  At  the 
conclusion  of  these  projects,  he  "temporarily" 
joined  his  son  as  bookkeeper  in  his  new  sports 
shop,  a  job  which  lasted  four  years.  The  Buells, 
now  fully  retired  and  living  in  the  Texas  Hill 
country,  recently  celebrated  their  golden  wed- 
ding anniversary. 

Art  Dixon  writes  that  he  likes  the  idea  of  the 
Journal's  class  notes  section.  During  the  past 
eight  years  he's  undergone  surgery  for  cancer 
(now  considered  cured),  suffered  two  strokes 
leaving  one  side  partially  paralyzed,  and  lost 
his  wife  of  42  years  to  lung  cancer.  Currently, 
he  lives  with  his  daughter  in  Golden,  CO,  but 
for  precautionary  reasons  goes  to  a  nursing 
home  during  weekdays.  He  keeps  busy  by  oper- 
ating the  nursing  home  snack  shop. 

Frank  Eaton  and  his  wife,  Mary,  are  spend- 
ing their  retirement  in  sunny  Port  St.  Lucie, 
FL,  with  occasional  visits  to  their  four  children 
and  five  grandchildren  in  Florida,  California 
and  Connecticut.  They  also  plan  to  visit  rela- 
tives in  Germany.  Frank,  who  attended  our 
50th  reunion,  is  looking  forward  to  our  55th. 

Joseph  Fogg,  whom  many  of  us  recall  mak- 
ing winning  springboard  dives  at  college,  still 
walks  on  the  beach  with  his  wife  every  day.  He 
says  he's  had  to  cut  down  on  tennis  since  his 
knees  "won't  take  it  any  more."  Retired  for 
eight  years,  he's  in  good  health,  and  lives  at 
Neptune  Beach,  FL.  The  Foggs  enjoy  visiting 
their  three  sons  and  traveling  in  and  out  of  the 
country. 

Robert  Fulton  reports  from  Portland,  ME, 
that  his  wife,  Ruth,  has  published  a  (Coans) 
family  genealogy  book,  which  required  four 
years  of  research  on  her  part.  The  book  was 
read  by  a  distant  West  Coast  relative  who  had 
valuable  documents  which  could  have  greatly 
reduced  many  hours  of  Ruth's  research  had  she 
known  of  their  existence.  Bob  and  Ruth  are 
members  of  the  Mayflower  Society. 

Al  Glenn,  whom  we  often  see  at  Tech  Old- 
Timers  meetings  in  Worcester,  says  he  enjoyed 
our  50th  reunion  the  most.  He  lives  in  Millbury 
and  often  speaks  on  subjects  ranging  from  pro- 
fessional golf  tournaments  to  Pearl  Harbor. 
Although  he  is  now  officially  a  member  of  the 
Class  of  1934,  we  hope  to  see  more  of  him. 

Leighton  "Bud"  Jackson  writes  that 
because  he  attended  our  50th,  he  now  sees  three 


of  his  fellow  chemists  regularly:  Ray  Craw- 
ford, Al  Laliberte  and  Carl  Silverberg.  He 

usually  visits  them  when  he  and  his  wife  go 
through  Sturbridge  on  their  way  to  vacations  in 
New  Hampshire  or  Maine. 

Carroll  "Mac"  Johnson  and  his  wife  have 
sold  their  Antrim,  NH,  house  and  moved  into  a 
new  retirement  community  on  the  site  of  the 
Mary  Baker  Eddy  Home  in  Concord,  which  is 
largely  populated  by  women.  "I've  met  one 
man,  so  far."  He's  thinking  of  starting  an 
investment  club  and  may  even  go  back  to  teach- 
ing school  in  Concord. 

Ed  Johnson,  retired  vice  president  of  North- 
east Utilities,  still  lives  in  West  Hartford,  is 
active  in  his  church  and  is  a  long-time  member 
of  the  Avon  Country  Club.  One  of  his  daugh- 
ters, Karen,  is  in  Germany  with  her  Army  med- 
ical officer  husband  and  the  other,  Sally,  is  mar- 
ried and  living  on  the  south  shore  in  Norwell, 
MA.  Ed  often  attends  TOT  meetings  at  WPI. 

Harold  Lamlein  reports  that  although  he 
started  out  as  a  chemist,  like  so  many  of  us  he 
ended  up  in  management.  After  working  as  lab- 
oratory head,  plant  controller  and  superinten- 
dent, when  his  plant  was  acquired  by  United 
Technologies,  he  became  technical  superin- 
tendent. He  retired  in  1969.  The  Lamleins,  who 
have  an  architect  son  and  a  botanist  daughter, 
have  lived  near  Toledo,  OH,  since  1937. 
Although  there  are  now  many  new  homes 
around  them,  they  still  cut  three  cords  of  fire- 
wood from  their  property  annually. 

After  our  50th  reunion,  Jack  Osborn  and  his 
wife  traveled  to  Victoria  and  Vancouver, 
BC,  and  visited  a  classmate  we  haven't  heard 
from  recently:  Weldon  McFarlane.  The 
McFarlanes  took  the  Osborns  on  a  tour  of  Van- 
couver. Jack  adds  that  back  in  Phoenix  he 
works  part  time  for  his  own  firm  as  a  manufac- 
turer's representative,  sells  real  estate  and  plays 
golf. 

Franklin  Roberts  and  his  wife,  Dee,  enjoy 
their  retirement  at  the  Admiralty  Club  in  Port 
Orange,  FL,  where  they  are  socially  active. 
Frank  says  that  with  the  help  of  several  aspirin, 
he  can  still  complete  a  round  of  golf.  He  plans 
to  look  up  some  of  his  nearby  classmates, 
including  Roy  Driscoll,  Harry  Clarke  and 
Charlie  Smith. 


Al  Brownlee,  Class  Secretary 


1935 


Reunion 


1940 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


George  Bingham,  former  manager  of  hydro- 
electric power  and  water  for  Chas.  T.  Main,  is 
now  retired  and  residing  in  Lake  Oswego,  OR. 
A  professional  engineer,  he  is  also  a  consultant. 


1941 


Andy  Anderson  is  a  sales  engineer  for  Manu- 
facturers Supplies  Inc.,  West  Boylston,  MA. 


Albert  Bellos  continues  as  vice  president  of 
engineering  at  Sandy  Hill  Corp.,  Hudson  Falls, 

NY. 


1943 


Last  June,  Perry  Fraser  retired  from 
Mechanical  Technology  Inc.,  Latham,  NY, 
where  he  had  been  engaged  in  Stirling  engine 
development  for  five  years.  Earlier,  he  had 
worked  for  GE,  principally  at  Knolls  Atomic 
Power  Laboratory,  Schenectady,  NY,  where  he 
was  involved  with  nuclear  reactor  development 
for  submarine  propulsion.  In  retirement,  he 
plans  to  invent  and  evaluate  in  the  following 
areas:  solar  concentration  and  high-temperature 
heat  storage  and  more  efficient  engines. 


1944 


Last  August,  Calvin  Davis  retired  from  GE  as 
manager  of  magnet  wire  engineering  and  qual- 
ity control  of  Motor  Magnet  Wire  Operations  in 
Fort  Wayne,  IN.  He  had  been  with  the  firm  for 
36  years.  During  his  last  assignment  with  GE, 
he  made  three  trips  to  Japan.  Currently,  he  is 
manager  of  technical  services  for  Elektriscola 
Inc.,  Penacook,  NH.  He  writes  that  he  thor- 
oughly enjoys  his  new  post.  "Also  we're  glad 
to  be  back  in  New  England."  The  Davises  enjoy 
golf,  traveling  and  genealogy. 

Everett  Johnson  retired  in  June  as  manager 
of  the  Texaco  Research  Center,  Beacon,  NY. 
He  had  also  been  associate  director  of  depart- 
mental services.  Active  with  the  Boy  Scouts, 
the  local  Methodist  Church  and  town  affairs,  he 
has  also  been  a  board  member  of  the  Council  of 
Industries  of  Southeastern  New  York  and  of  the 
United  Way  of  Dutchess  County.  He  is  a  past 
president  of  the  Dutchess  County  Health  Plan- 
ning Council  and  past  chairman  of  the  town 
Republican  Party. 


1945 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Ed  Baldwin  retired  in  1984  from  AT&T  Tech- 
nologies after  36  years  with  Bell  Labs,  Western 
Electric  and  AT&T.  He  is  now  enjoying  his 
ham  radio  and  home  computer  hobbies. 

Alfred  Green,  president  of  Process  Heating 
Corp.  of  Westboro,  MA,  has  been  named  to  the 
Worcester  Academy  board  of  trustees. 

Paul  Kokulis  and  his  wife,  Carolyn,  have 
been  named  "Citizens  of  the  Year"  by  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Potomac,  MD.  For 
the  past  20  years,  they  have  opened  up  their 
home  to  teenagers  in  the  area  on  Friday  nights, 
with  100  youngsters  often  in  attendance. 


1946 


Paul  Gorman  has  been  elected  president  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  the  C.  T.  Main  Cor- 
poration, a  Boston-based  international  engi- 
neering and  construction  firm.  Previously,  he 
had  served  as  president,  executive  vice  presi- 


44       WPI  JOURNAL 


Foxy  Grandpa  Wins  Grand  Masters  Award 


1984:  At  Tassajara  Road  Race 
(Danville  to  Live rmore,  CA.) 


Well,  at  last  it's  official!  Ed  "Foxy 
Grandpa"  Delano,  '30,  is  the  Grand 
Masters  cycling  champion.  Last  fall  in 
Denver,  CO,  he  beat  Herbert  Kimball  of 
Southern  California  in  the  national  time 
trials. 

Ed  is  quite  modest  about  his 
accomplishment.  "These  things  are 
pretty  easy  to  win  for  us  old  guys,"  he 
says.  "Nobody  wants  to  come  out  for 
them." 

The  real  reason  there  isn't  a  larger  field 
in  his  age  group  (75-79)  could  be  that 
potential  contenders  may  be  intimidated 
by  Ed's  remarkable  record:  five  unofficial 
Grand  Masters  titles  and  six  Senior 
Olympics  crowns. 

On  the  other  hand,  Ed's  feats  have 
brought  dozens  of  less  competitive 
seniors  into  cycling.  "I  feel  that  cycling  is 
made  to  order  for  older  people,"  he  says. 
"Once  the  elderly  see  how  much  healthy 
fun  it  is,  they  want  to  try  it,  too.  I've 
gotten  lots  of  publicity  and  veteran  racers 
say  they  compete  because  of  me.  They 
don't  want  me  to  have  all  the  fun!" 


Ed,  who  started  cycling  on  a  modest 
scale  in  Chicago  and  on  Long  Island  in 
the  1920s,  pedalled  across  the  U.S.  in 
1970  to  attend  his  40th  reunion  at  WPI. 
Five  years  later,  he  celebrated  his  70th 
birthday  wheeling  from  Vacaville,  CA, 
to  Quebec,  Canada. 

"On  the  Quebec  trip,  I  made  my  best 
time  ever  for  that  distance,"  he  reports. 
"3260  miles  in  33  XA  days." 

In  1980,  he  biked  to  WPI  again,  this 
time  for  his  50th  reunion.  In  1981,  he 
teamed  with  five  other  veteran  riders  to 
complete  the  Senior  Citizens  (62  or  over) 
Coast-to-Coast  Relay.  The  group  traveled 
from  San  Diego  to  Washington,  DC,  in  9 
days  and  20  hours,  with  at  least  one  rider 
on  the  road  at  all  times,  day  and  night, 
rain  or  shine. 

Summing  up  his  favorite  hobby,  Ed 
stresses,  "Cycling  is  wonderful  for 
retired  people.  It's  the  best  aerobic 
conditioner  there  is.  It's  good  for  the 
cardiovascular  system.  And  it's 
wonderful  training,  even  though  I  suffer 
all  the  way!" 


dent  and  manager  of  Chas.  T.  Main  Inc.,  the 
corporation's  engineering  and  design  subsid- 
iary. Before  joining  Main  in  1975,  he  was  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  Boston 
office  of  United  Engineers  &  Constructors  Inc. 
He  received  an  MSME  from  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity, where  he  later  served  on  the  faculty  of 
the  Graduate  School  of  Engineering. 


1949 


Donald  Taylor,  president  and  chief  operating 
officer  of  Rexnord  since  1978,  has  been  named 
vice  chairman  and  CEO  of  the  firm.  He  was 
employed  by  Nordberg  Manufacturing  Com- 
pany prior  to  its  merger  with  Rexnord  in  1970. 
In  1973,  he  became  president  of  Nordberg  and 
a  vice  president  of  operations  for  Rexnord.  He 
graduated  from  the  Advanced  Management 
Program  at  Harvard  University. 


1950 


Reunion 


May  30- June  2, 1985 


Richard  Olson,  P.E.,  of  Shrewsbury,  MA,  has 
been  elected  president  of  the  Worcester  Engi- 
neering Society.  He  is  a  senior  member  of  the 
American  Society  for  Quality  Control  (ASQC), 
an  associate  member  of  the  European  Organiza- 
tion for  Quality  Control  and  past  chairman  of 
the  Worcester  section  of  ASQC.  Nationally,  he 
serves  as  vice  chairman  for  division  affairs  for 
the  Inspection  Division  of  ASQC.  Olson,  who 
holds  an  MBA  from  Northeastern,  has  his  own 
consulting  practice  in  quality  control.  Since 
1971 ,  he  has  been  an  adjunct  professor  of  man- 


agement at  the  University  of  Lowell.  In  1983, 
he  was  named  senior  lecturer  by  the  university 
in  recognition  of  his  long,  distinguished  teach- 
ing service. 

Robert  Smith  is  now  with  Alco  Electronic 
Products  Inc.,  North  Andover,  MA. 

Stanley  Tokarz,  who  retired  in  1982  as  chief 
of  engineering  service  at  the  Veterans  Adminis- 
tration hospital,  Bedford,  MA,  currently  serves 
as  a  part-time  building  inspector  in  West  Boyl- 
ston,  MA.  "I  was  getting  bored  with  retire- 
ment," he  says.  In  1970,  he  retired  as  a  lieuten- 
ant colonel  from  the  U.S.  Air  Force  after  29 
years  of  combined  active  and  reserve  duty. 

Robert  Van  Amburgh  holds  the  post  of 
development  manager  at  C.R.  Bard  Inc., 
Moncks  Corner,  SC. 


1951 


Andrew  Freeland  works  for  Harris  Corp. 
Leesville,  SC. 


1953 


John  Morrill,  who  is  retired  from  BF  Goodrich 
Chemical,  now  resides  in  Newport,  NC. 

In  October,  Richard  Samolis  was  appointed 
to  the  State  of  Massachusetts  Apprenticeship 
Council.  The  council  comprises  three  members 
of  management  and  three  members  of  labor, 
with  skills  and  interests  pertinent  to  apprentice 
training.  Samolis  is  a  senior  consultant  in  the 
energy  management  services  department  of 
Northeast  Utilities,  where  he  has  been  em- 
ployed since  1957.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Massachusetts. 


1954 


Donald  Ross  has  been  elected  a  member  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  Troy  Mills  Inc.  in  New 
Hampshire.  He  is  president  of  MPB  Corpora- 
tion of  Keene,  a  division  of  Signal  Corporation. 


1955 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Gerald  Backlund  is  manager  of  plant  opera- 
tions at  American  Cyanamid  Company,  Stam- 
ford, CT. 

Brian  Kelly,  vice  president-operations,  Bell 
of  Pennsylvania  and  vice  president-staff  opera- 
tions, Diamond  State  Telephone,  has  been 
named  group  president-information  products 
and  services,  Bell  Atlantic  Enterprises.  He  will 
be  responsible  for  information  equipment  sales 
and  maintenance  and  service  markets,  includ- 
ing those  of  Bell  Atlanticom  Systems  Inc., 
Telecommunications  Specialists  Inc.,  and  Sor- 
bus  Service. 


1956 


Charlie  Healy  and  his  wife,  Louise,  have  relo- 
cated to  Manila  in  the  Philippines  from  Sydney, 
Australia.  Currently,  Charlie  is  with  interna- 
tional business  development  for  the  Asia/ 
Pacific  region  for  Ebasco  and  expects  to  do  a  lot 
of  traveling  in  that  part  of  the  world.  He  sends 
his  best  to  his  WPI  classmates. 

The  Rev.  Paul  Schoonmaker  is  pastor  of 
Calvary  Baptist  Church,  Providence,  RI. 


MAY  1985       45 


1958 


William  Hopf  is  vice  president  and  general 
manager  at  Cooper  Industries.  Oklahoma  Citv. 
OK. 

Robert  Jacobson  serves  as  an  advisory  aca- 
demic specialist  at  IBM  in  Hamden.  CT. 

Robert  Jenkins,  a  senior  materials  engineer 
for  Law  Engineering  Testing  Company,  wrote 
"Nondestructive  Testing— An  Evaluation 
Tool."'  which  appeared  in  the  February  issue  of 
Concrete  International.  He  belongs  to  ACI 
Committee  228.  Nondestructive  Testing  of 
Concrete.  Law  Engineering  provides  consult- 
ing engineering  services  in  the  fields  of 
geotechnical  and  construction  materials. 

Joel  Korelitz  is  president  of  Standard  Engi- 
neering Corp..  Fremont.  CA. 

H.  O.  Painter  continues  as  vice  president  of 
marketing  at  GenRad  Inc..  Phoenix,  AZ. 


1960 


Reunion 


May  30- June  2, 1985 


Mirtin  Beck  was  recently  elected  a  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Massachusetts  Federation  of  Plan- 
ning Boards.  A  member  of  the  Pepperell  (MA) 
planning  board  since  1978  and  its  former  chair- 
man. Beck  has  been  a  regional  director  of  the 
federation  for  the  past  four  years.  He  had  been 
vice  president  of  the  Massachusetts  Association 
of  Regional  Planning  Agencies  since  1981.  The 
governor's  appointee  to  the  state  Hazardous 
Waste  Advisory  Committee,  he  is  past  chair- 
man. Northern  Middlesex  Area  Commission. 

Ivan    Kirsch's    first   grandchild.    Caitlyn 
Danielle  Kirsch.  was  born  Nov.  15.  1984. 


1962 


Dr.  John  Tien  was  co-author  of  "The  U.S. 
Superalloys  Industry— Status  and  Outlook."' 
which  appeared  in  the  September  issue  of  Jour- 
nal of  Metals.  Currently,  he  is  the  Howe  Chair 
Professor  of  Metallurgy  and  director  of  the 
Center  for  Strategic  Materials,  Columbia  Uni- 
versity, New  York  City.  He  has  22  years  of 
experience  in  the  science  and  technology  of 
superalloys.  In  the  past  decade,  he  has  been 
advisor  for  many  major  jet  engine,  rocket 
engine  and  gas  turbine  projects  and  has  been 
involved  in  research  planning  and  implementa- 
tion of  most  of  the  advanced  superalloy  devel- 
opments. Besides  WPI.  he  holds  degrees  from 
Carnegie-Mellon  and  Yale.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  National  Materials  Advisory  Board  Com- 
mittees dealing  with  aerospace  structural  mate- 
rials, as  well  as  a  consultant  to  the  UN  and  a 
member  of  the  Metallurgical  Society  of  AIME. 


1963 


Donald  Chaffee  is  a  self-employed  engineering 
consultant  located  in  Park  City.  UT.  He  has  a 
PhD  from  UCLA. 

Al  Molinari,  president  of  Data  Translation. 
Marlboro.  MA.  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  Shaw  mut  Worcester  County  Bank. 


1964 


MARRIED:  Peter  Dornemann  and  Ellen  Ter- 
ryberry  in  Cummaquid.  MA,  on  November  17. 
1984.  Ellen,  placement  director  at  Red  Acre 
Hearing  Dog  Center  in  Stow,  MA,  graduated 
from  Boston  University.  Peter  graduated  from 
Wharton  School  of  Finance  and  is  director  of 
marketing  at  Belloframe  Corp.,  Burlington. 
MA. 

Robert  Bennett  serves  as  manager  of  roll 
grinder  engineering  at  Farrel,  Ansonia,  CT. 

Bill  Dowd,  who  recently  left  Del  Monte  and 
Heublein,  has  joined  Campbell  Soup  Company 
as  executive  vice  president  in  the  Mrs.  Paul's 
subsidiary.  Mrs.  Paul's  is  a  free-standing  com- 
pany that  produces  and  markets  frozen  sea- 
foods. Previously,  Bill  was  vice  president  of 
strategic  planning  and  operations  for  Del  Monte 
in  Farmington,  CT. 

Howard  Hill  owns  and  operates  Datamarine 
International  Inc..  in  Pocasset,  MA,  a  firm 
which  makes  and  sells  electronic  devices  for 
pleasure  boats  of  all  sizes.  The  devices  tell  the 
small-boat  owner  or  yachtsman  the  depth  of  the 
water,  speed,  direction  and  exact  location,  and 
by  prearrangement  it  will  take  him/her  to  his 
destination,  even  if  it  is  hundreds  or  thousands 
of  miles  away.  Not  only  does  the  firm  sell 
oceanographic  instruments,  but  it  also  has 
developed  flowmeters  with  digital  readouts  to 
accurately  measure  pipe  flow  for  industrial  use. 
Before  founding  Datamarine  more  than  1 1 
years  ago.  Hill  had  worked  on  marine  instru- 
mentation as  a  chief  engineer  and  on  computers 
and  digital  devices  for  IBM  and  Honeywell. 

William  Lechman  serves  as  president  of 
Fairfield  Mfg.  Co.  Inc..  Lafayette.  IN. 

Richard  Lundgren  recently  became  chair- 
man of  the  mathematics  department  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Colorado  at  Denver. 

Bruce  Reynolds  now  works  as  a  representa- 
tive for  Mutual  of  Omaha.  Shrewsbury,  MA. 

Richard  Ryczek  has  been  named  director  of 
research  and  development  of  Niagara  Mohawk 
Power  Corp.  With  the  firm  since  1964.  he  was 
formerly  manager  of  nuclear  engineering.  A 
licensed  professional  engineer,  he  has  a  mas- 
ter's in  industrial  administration  from  Union 
College.  Schenectady.  NY. 


1965 


Reunion 


May  30-June  2, 1985 


Gene  Dionne,  who  has  an  MBA  from  Auburn 
University,  continues  as  a  lieutenant  colonel  in 
the  USAF.  The  Dionnes  have  one  child  and 
reside  in  Littleton,  CO. 

Donald  Franklin  serves  as  a  computer  audi- 
tor for  the  U.S. -Saudi  Arabian  Joint  Commis- 
sion on  Economic  Cooperation,  Department  of 
the  Treasury,  Washington.  DC.  He  is  currently 
in  Saudi  Arabia. 

George  Lemmon  has  been  appointed  presi- 
dent of  Ebasco  Plant  Services  Inc.,  New  York 
City.  Previously,  he  served  as  the  New  York 
office  manager  of  engineering.  In  his  new  post, 
he  will  also  serve  as  chief  operating  officer  of 
the  Ebasco  subsidiary  which  provides  startup, 
operational  and  retrofit  services  for  electric 
generating  stations  and  industrial  plants.  With 
Ebasco  since  graduation,   Lemmon  has  held 


positions  of  increasing  responsibility,  including 
chief  engineer  of  instrumentation  and  control. 
A  registered  professional  engineer  in  1 1  states, 
he  belongs  to  the  IEEE. 


1966 


James  Loomis  serves  as  resident  manager 
for  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 


1967 


Thomas  Kelley,  who  holds  a  JD  from  Suf- 
folk University,  is  a  patent  attorney  for  Mon- 
santo in  St.  Louis,  MO. 

Robert  Lockwood  serves  as  director  of  soft- 
ware engineering  for  Stearns  Computer  Sys- 
tems in  Minnetonka,  MN. 

Gary  Willis,  vice  president  of  the  Foxboro 
Company,  has  been  assigned  responsibility  for 
all  U.S. -based  operations  and  worldwide  sup- 
port functions  of  the  firm.  Formerly  general 
manager  of  Foxboro  analytical  operations,  he 
became  a  vice  president  in  April  1984.  He 
joined  the  company  in  1975  as  a  major  project 
coordinator. 


1968 


Kenneth  Battle  is  an  engineer  associate  with 
Uniroyal  in  Geismar.  LA. 

Victor  Calabretta,  Jr.,  has  been  named 
director  of  operations  for  CE  Maguire  Inc., 
Providence,  RI.  He  is  a  corporate  vice  presi- 
dent and  director  of  port  and  marine  operations 
for  the  international  architects,  engineers  and 
planners.  Since  joining  the  firm  13  years  ago, 
Calabretta  has  progressed  through  a  number  of 
assignments,  including  supervising  design  and 
related  work  on  domestic  and  international 
marine  and  port  facilities.  He  assisted  in  acti- 
vating the  CE  Honolulu  regional  office  and  was 
project  engineer  for  a  large  ammunition  depot 
on  Guam.  Prior  to  joining  CE,  he  served  with 
the  Civil  Engineer  Corps,  U.S.  Navy. 

Gerald  Cronin  is  manager  of  electric  prod- 
uct design  for  Worcester  Controls,  West  Boyl- 
ston,  MA.  He  has  received  a  patent  for  a  valve 
actuator-controller. 

Dr.  Jerry  Jasinski,  who  holds  a  master's 
degree  from  WPI,  was  the  author  of  the  article, 
"A  Small-College  Undergraduate  Program  in 
Industrial  Chemistry,"  which  appeared  in  a 
recent  issue  of  the  Journal  of  Chemical  Educa- 
tion. He  is  associate  professor  of  chemistry  at 
Keene  (NH)  State  College. 

Scott  Ramsay  has  been  elected  to  the  board 
of  trustees  of  the  New  Hampshire  Symphony 
Orchestra  (NHSO),  which  he  has  served  as  a 
development  committee  member  for  the  past 
year.  He  is  vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  the  central  division  of  Shaw's  Supermarkets 
Inc. 


1969 


George  Banks   received   the   Mystic   (CT) 
Chamber  of  Commerce's  25th  annual  Commu- 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Joe  Marcus  Retires  as 
UMass  Engineering  Dean 

When  200  friends  gathered  to  honor  Joe 
Marcus  '44  at  his  retirement  party  in 
December,  it  was  a  given  that  colleagues 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
would  be  there  en  force.  A  witty, 
well-liked  administrator  and  teacher  and, 
for  a  number  of  years,  the  associate  dean 
of  engineering,  Marcus  was  leaving  the 
Amherst  campus  following  36  years  of 
service. 

Joining  in  the  special  tribute  were 
representatives  with  WPI  connections, 
including  George  Marston  '30,  Don 
Berth  '57  and  Ken  Scott  '48.  Said 
Marston,  the  first  dean  of  the  School  of 
Engineering  (1947-1963),  "In  the  early 
years  after  the  School  opened,  all  the 
faculty  pitched  in.  Although  Joe  was  a 
chemical  engineer,  he  taught  civil  and 
mechanical  engineering,  too.  We  soon 
learned  he  was  a  capable  administrator 
and  student  adviser,  as  well." 

Berth,  vice  president  of  University 
Relations  at  WPI.  added.  "You  could  call 
Joe  a  utility  ballplayer  in  the  very  best 
sense.  He  played  every  position  for 
which  he  'was  volunteered'  or 
'volunteered'  with  enthusiasm, 
commitment  and  competence.  While  his 
retirement  will  directly  impact  upon 
engineering  at  the  university,  the 
engineering  universe  beyond  Amherst 
will  also  miss  his  lively  presence." 

Joe  received  both  the  Metawampe 
Award  from  the  students  and  the 
Distinguished  Teaching  Award  in 
the  1960s.  In  1975,  he  received  the 
Engineering  Alumni  Award  from  the 
university.  Last  year,  he  won  the 
Chancellor's  Medal  for  "exemplary  and 
extraordinary  service." 


nity  Service  Award  in  January.  At  37.  he  is  one 
of  the  youngest  recipients  of  the  award.  He  has 
been  involved  with  the  Mystic  Babe  Ruth 
League  since  1967,  serving  as  league  president 
since  1978.  Also,  he  is  president  of  the 
Stonington  Recreational  Basketball  League  and 
treasurer  of  the  Mystic  Community  Center's 
board  of  directors.  Active  with  the  local  Boy 
Scout  post,  he  is  associated  with  the  Noank 
Men's  Bowling  Team,  as  well.  He  is  a  com- 
puter programmer  with  the  Vitro  Corp..  New- 
London.  CT. 

Joseph  FitzGerald  holds  the  post  of  senior 
mechanical  engineer  at  Gulf  States  Utilities. 
Beaumont,  TX. 

James  Heinrich  serves  as  district  manager  at 
Elliott  Co..  Orinda.  CA. 

Dave  Johnson  has  accepted  the  position  of 
sales  manager  of  software  systems  for  AT&T 
International  in  the  Pacific  Basin.  He  and  his 
wife.  Jan.  will  be  in  Tokyo  for  two  years. 

Barry  Shiffrin  was  recently  promoted  to 
advisory  engineer  at  IBM  in  Endicott.  NY.  His 


Marcus  (left)  and  UMass  Dean  of 
Engineering  James  John 

As  associate  dean  of  the  School  of 
Engineering,  Marcus  took  a  prominent 
role  in  expanding  undergraduate 
opportunities,  including  the  women's 
engineering  program.  He  instituted 
projects  that  involved  high  schools  and 
community  colleges,  thus  ensuring 
greater  cooperation  between  the 
university  and  these  institutions,  and  was 
instrumental  in  establishing  the  Smith 
College-UMass  Dual  Degree  Program  in 
Engineering. 

Prof.  Ken  Scott  of  the  ME  department 
at  WPI  had  this  to  say  of  Marcus,  "Joe  is 
a  professional  who  has  dedicated  his  life 
to  advancing  engineering  education.  He 
has  provided  a  continuity  while  at  the 
same  time  encouraging  change  and 
innovation." 


work  involves  acting  as  a  consultant  for  the 
usage  of  the  IBM  personal  computer  for  engi- 
neering and  administrative  users.  IBM  has  pub- 
lished one  of  his  programs  for  the  IBM  personal 
computer.  Entitled  "DOS  File  Tracker."  it  is 
part  of  the  "Directory  for  Personally  Devel- 
oped Software."  The  directory  may  be  ordered 
free  by  calling  (800)  IBM-PCSW  (426-7279). 

Dr.  B.  Lee  Tuttle,  associate  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  GMI  Engineering  & 
Management  Institute.  Flint.  MI.  has  been 
named  the  recipient  of  the  1983-84  Charles  L. 
Tutt,  Jr..  Innovative  Teaching  Award.  The 
award  recognizes  GMI  faculty  members  who 
have  made  significant  improvements  in  the  edu- 
cational process  of  the  institute.  Lee  was 
selected  because  of  his  sustained  record  of 
innovation  and  creativity  in  the  teaching  of 
manufacturing  processes  at  GMI.  The  author  of 
several  publications.  Lee  holds  a  master's  and 
PhD  from  Pennsylvania  State  University.  He 
belongs  to  various  professional  societies  and 
has  received  numerous  awards. 


1970 


Reunion 


September  28, 1985 


MARRIED:  Edmund  Curtis  to  Dr.  Sharon 
Anderson  on  September  22,  1984.  in  Cam- 
bridge, MA.  She  graduated  from  the  University 
of  Arkansas.  Her  residency  was  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Oregon,  and  she  is  affiliated  with 
Brigham  and  Woman's  Hospital.  Boston,  and 
the  Harvard  Medical  School.  He  manages  the 
Curtis  Construction  Company  in  Cambridge. 
MA. 

Gregory  Barnhart  is  national  sales  manager 
for  Inmos  Corp..  Colorado  Springs,  CO. 

Daniel  Czernicki  continues  as  engineering 
manager  of  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center. 
Newport.  RI. 

Philip  Warren,  who  joined  Nashua  Corp.. 
Watervliet,  NY,  in  1973,  has  been  named  man- 
ager of  manufacturing  for  the  company. 


1971 


MARRIED:  Douglas  Keily  to  Kathryn  Stone 
in  Simsbury.  CT.  on  November  10.  1984.  She 
is  a  graduate  of  the  University  of  New  Haven 
and  is  employed  as  a  branch  personnel  manager 
at  DEC.  Meriden.  CT.  He  holds  the  post  of 
project  manager  at  Combustion  Engineering  in 
Windsor.  CT.  .  .  .Francis  Wehner.  Jr..  and 
Denise  Marleau  on  November  3.  1984.  in 
Auburn,  MA.  Denise.  a  proofreader,  graduated 
from  Worcester  State  College.  Francis  works 
for  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat  Division. 
Groton.  CT. 

Carlton  Cruff  is  supervisor  of  forging  devel- 
opment at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft.  East  Hart- 
ford. CT. 

Dave  Demers  of  Demers  Associates  also 
serves  as  a  regional  correspondent  for  the  mag- 
azine Fire  Command,  which  is  published  in 
Quincy.  MA.  He  is  a  consulting  fire  protection 
engineer,  as  well  as  a  captain  in  the  Lunenburg, 
MA.  fire  department.  Recently,  he  received  a 
master's  in  fire  protection  engineering  from 
WPI. 

John  Meschisen  has  been  appointed  distribu- 
tion superintendent  at  Eastern  Edison's  Fall 
River.  MA.  division.  Previously,  he  was  direc- 
tor of  purchasing  and  material  control  with 
EUA  Service  Corp.  He  joined  the  EUA  system 
in  1975. 

Michael  Winn  was  recently  appointed  to 
manufacturing  manager  in  the  preliminary 
department  at  R.R.  Donnelley  &  Sons'  Old 
Saybrook.  CT.  division.  He  began  work  at  the 
firm  in  1977  as  an  industrial  engineer.  Until  his 
recent  promotion  he  held  supervisory  posts  in 
the  preliminary  department,  in  building  and 
maintenance  and  in  the  pressroom. 


1972 


Dr.  Howard  Levine  is  employed  as  senior  sci- 
entist at  Polaroid  Corp.  in  Cambridge.  MA. 

Brennan  McLaughlin  was  a  co-author  of 
"Maintaining  Condensate  Steam  Quality." 
which  appeared  in  the  October  issue  of  Power 
Engineering.   A  supervising  process  engineer 


MAY  1985 


'  with  United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  he  is 

J  responsible  for  developing  systems  to  comply 

with  environmental  permits  and  other  process 

work  related  to  flue  gas  cleaning  and  water/ 

waste  treatment. 

John  Woodward,  formerly  a  captain  with 
the  Marine  Corps,  was  recently  promoted  to 
major.  Previously,  he  had  been  a  commanding 
officer  for  the  Communications  Support  Co., 
Battalion  Headquarters,  27th  Marine  Regiment. 
He  holds  a  master's  in  systems  management 
from  the  University  of  Southern  California.  His 
medals  include  the  Navy  Achievement,  Sea 
Service  Deployment  and  National  Defense.  He 
and  his  wife,  Nancy,  will  be  stationed  in 
Okinawa  for  a  year. 


1973 


BORN:  to  Susan  and  Robert  Akie  a  son, 
Thomas  Edward,  on  October  24.  1984.  WPI 
relatives  include:  Prof.  Roy  Bourgault  '42  of 
the  WPI  ME  Department,  grandfather; 
Richard  Bourgault  '78,  uncle;  George 
George  '41,  great  uncle;  and  Douglas  George 
'69,  cousin. 

Maj.  Richard  Brontoli  is  currently  on  a  one- 
year  tour  of  duty  as  the  area  engineer  in  El 
Salvador  for  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers.  He 
is  responsible  for  three  military  construction 
projects. 

James  Davis  is  a  salesman  for  Dearborn 
Chemical,  Lake  Zurich,  IL. 

Terrence  Luddy  serves  as  a  special  agent  for 
the  FBI  in  Fairmont,  WV. 

Martin  Sklar  is  a  project  engineer  for  John- 
son &  Johnson,  Braintree,  MA.  The  SkJars, 
parents  of  a  new  daughter,  Jennifer,  reside  in 
Needham,  MA. 

Robert  Wood,  head  of  Werner  Pump  Co.  of 
Cincinnati,  OH,  discussed  his  experiences  as  a 
member  of  the  mechanical  side  of  a  racing  team 
at  the  Indianapolis  500,  before  the  Uxbridge 
(MA)  Rotary  Club  in  December. 


1974 


MARRIED:  Hugh  McAdam  ID  to  Theresa 
McCafferty  on  October  27,  1984,  in  Merri- 
mack, NH.  Theresa,  an  industry  marketing 
manager  at  DEC  in  Merrimack,  graduated  from 
Babson  College,  Wellesley,  MA.  Hugh  holds 
an  MBA  from  Babson  and  is  a  vice  president 
with  International  Paper  Box  and  Machine  Co., 
Nashua,  NH.  .  .  .Richard  Miles  and  Joanne 
Ramey  in  Lawrence,  MA,  on  November  18, 
1984.  Joanne  graduated  from  Boston  College 
and  is  a  special  needs  teacher  for  the  town  of 
Wilmington,  MA.  Richard  serves  as  manager 
of  systems  support  at  GCA,  Bedford,  MA. 

Alden  Bianchi  has  been  appointed  an  associ- 
ate at  the  law  firm  of  Mirick,  O'Connell, 
DeMallie  &  Lougee  in  Worcester.  A  specialist 
in  estate  planning  and  employee  benefits  law, 
Bianchi  was  associated  with  the  Worcester  firm 
of  Gilbert  and  Kenny  prior  to  accepting  his 
present  post.  He  has  also  practiced  law  in  Chi- 
cago and  Washington,  DC.  Besides  WPI,  he 
graduated  from  Suffolk  University  Law  School 
and  Georgetown  University  Law  School. 

David  Castelli  is  a  senior  product  engineer 
for  Texas  Instruments,  Attleboro,  MA. 


Instructing  lab  assistants  at  Lehigh 


"Physics  for  Poets?" 

"This  is  an  exciting  time  for  the  physics 
department  at  Lehigh  University,"  says 
physics  professor  Shelden  Radin  '58, 
who  has  been  with  Lehigh  for  21  years. 
Currently,  the  department  is  planning  an 


Magician-actor  Steve  Dacri  guest-starred 
with  Jennifer  O'Neill  on  TV  in  "Cover  Up"  on 
December  29,  1984. 

Gene  Dejackome,  chairman  of  the  board  of 
selectmen  in  Orange,  MA,  resigned  his  post  in 
March.  The  six-year  board  veteran  cited 
"increased  business  pressures"  as  one  of  the 
reasons  for  his  resignation.  He  was  the  young- 
est town  selectman  elected  when  he  first  ran  in 
1978  at  the  age  of  26.  DeJackome,  manufactur- 
ing supervisor  for  Monsanto,  Springfield,  MA, 
has  also  served  on  the  town  planning  board  and 
as  chief  negotiator  for  the  personnel  board.  He 
belongs  to  the  Kiwanis  Club  and  is  a  past  presi- 
dent of  the  local  Knights  of  Columbus. 

Mark  Whitney  was  recently  promoted  to 
senior  engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  (NU)  in 
Connecticut.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the 
nuclear  operations  department  budget  prepara- 
tion as  well  as  the  preparation  of  variance 
reports  and  data  that  the  department  submits  to 
rate  case  proceedings.  He  joined  NU  in  1979  as 
an  associate  engineer  in  the  cost  and  schedule 
control  branch  of  the  generation  projects 
department.  In  1980,  he  was  promoted  to  engi- 
neer in  the  cost  and  schedule  branch  of  the 
nuclear  engineering  and  operations  group. 
Later,  he  became  project  manager  of  the  gener- 


addition  to  its  building,  as  well  as  an 
expansion  of  the  staff. 

"We're  bringing  in  new  ideas,  new 
research,  new  courses  and,  hopefully, 
more  students,"  Radin  adds.  "The 
department  is  at  a  critical  stage." 

Back  in  1963,  when  Radin  joined  the 


ation  mechanical  engineering  branch  of  nuclear 
engineering  and  operations.  A  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer,  he  belongs  to  the  ASME  and 
holds  an  MBA  from  UConn. 


1975 


Reunion 


September  28, 1985 


MARRIED:  Richard  Harabedian  and  Eliza- 
beth Weldon  in  Fairfield,  CT,  on  November  10, 
1984.  A  systems  analyst,  Elizabeth  graduated 
from  Providence  College  and  is  currently  pur- 
suing her  MBA  in  computer  science  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  New  Haven.  Richard  is  a  construc- 
tion coordinator  in  Sikorsky's  plant  engineering 
department,  while  Elizabeth  is  employed  in  the 
company's  resource  planning  department. 
.  .  .  Ron  Materniak  and  Joyce  Monson  in 
Newark,  DE,  on  November  17,  1984.  Joyce 
holds  a  BS  in  textile  science  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Nebraska  and  an  MS  and  a  PhD  in  tex- 
tiles and  polymer  science  from  Clemson  Uni- 
versity. She  is  a  research  chemist  with  Du  Pont, 
where  Ron  serves  as  a  senior  specialist  engi- 
neer. He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 


48       WPI  JOURNAL 


faculty,  his  initial  impression  was  that 
Lehigh  was  downright  conservative.  The 
university  was  just  beginning  to  turn 
coeducational  and  the  administration  did 
most  of  the  decision  making. 

"Today,  Lehigh  is  much  more  open," 
he  says.  "There  is  increasing  dialogue 
between  administrators  and  faculty 
members.  Also,  both  students  and  faculty 
help  make  campus  decisions." 

Radin,  who  received  his  graduate 
degrees  from  Yale,  started  at  Lehigh  as 
an  assistant  professor.  He  found  the 
physics  department  to  be  "friendly  and 
conscientious  about  carrying  out  teaching 
responsibilities  and  research,"  an  attitude 
that  prevails  to  this  day.  However,  since 
1963  there  have  been  changes,  with 
Radin  making  a  number  of  contributions. 
In  1970,  he  initiated  Physics  42,  better 
known  on  campus  as  "Physics  for 
Poets." 

"I  felt  we  should  have  people  from  the 
Arts  College  get  an  introduction  to  how  a 
scientist  thinks,"  he  explains. 

Currently,  he  is  supervisor  of  the 
freshman  physics  lab,  teaches  senior 
courses  in  mechanics  and  modem  optics, 
is  responsible  for  the  undergraduate 
physics  curriculum,  and  is  the 
department's  graduate  student  advisor. 

Active  with  campus  committees, 
including  the  Educational  Policy 
Committee  and  the  Research  Council, 
Radin  also  enjoys  photographing  nature. 
As  a  writer,  he  coauthored  the  textbook, 
Physics  for  Scientists  and  Engineers, 
which  is  used  in  the  introductory  physics 
course  at  Lehigh  and  other  colleges. 


Richmond.  .  .  .  Paul  O'Brien  to  Laurie  DePie- 
tro  in  Quincy,  MA.  She  graduated  from  BU  and 
is  a  dental  assistant.  Paul,  who  has  an  MBA 
from  the  University  of  New  Haven,  holds  the 
post  of  sales  manager  at  Cyborg  Corp. 

MARRIED:  Paul  Romanowicz  and  Electra 
Lamen  on  October  6,  1984,  in  Irondequoit, 
NY.  Electra  graduated  from  Syracuse  Univer- 
sity. Both  she  and  Paul  are  employed  at  Kodak. 
.  .  .  Charles  Shippee  and  Anne  Miliotis  in 
York,  ME.  Anne  graduated  from  Northeastern 
University's  Bouve  School  of  Physical  Therapy 
and  is  chief  therapist  for  the  Physical  Therapy 
Clinic  of  North  Shore,  Inc.,  Lowell,  MA. 
Charles  is  self  employed.  .  .  .  Mark  Swain  to 
Mary  Douglas  in  Amherst,  MA,  on  October 
13,  1984.  Mary,  a  graduate  of  Tufts  University, 
is  a  financial  assistant  at  Fogg  Art  Museum, 
Harvard  University.  Mark  is  an  engineering 
manager  with  Boston  Systems  Office.  .  .  . 
James  Sweeney  and  Karen  Anderson  in 
Bournedale,  MA,  on  September  15,  1984. 
Karen  graduated  from  Cazenovia  (NY)  College 
and  works  at  Colonial  Federal  Savings  Bank  in 
East  Wareham,  MA.  Sweeney  is  employed  in 
the  family  business,  Play  land  Arcade  in  Buz- 
zard's Bay,  and  by  Newell  Snow  Surveying. 

BORN:  to  Meryl  and  Bob  Fried  a  son. 


David,  on  August  23,  1984.  For  the  past  two 
years,  Bob  has  had  the  post  of  senior  product 
engineer  in  the  discrete  semiconductor  division 
of  General  Instrument  Corp.  As  part  of  his 
duties,  he  has  traveled  to  Taiwan  three  times,  as 
well  as  to  Japan  and  a  number  of  locations  in 
the  U.S.  Recently,  he  received  the  company's 
quarterly  "Employee  Performance  Award." 

Paul  Houlihan  continues  in  sales  at  LSI 
Logic  Corp.,  Westport,  CT. 

David  Samara  is  now  a  senior  applications 
engineer  with  Westinghouse  Hittman  Nuclear 
in  Columbia,  MD. 

Donald  Tata  has  been  promoted  to  vice  pres- 
ident of  the  water  management  group  in  Ander- 
son-Nichols' Environmental  Division  in  Clin- 
ton, MA.  He  will  have  overall  managerial  and 
marketing  responsibilities  for  the  newly  estab- 
lished group. 

Michael  White  was  a  co-author  of  "Spinodal 
Cu-Ni-Sn  Alloys  for  Electronic  Applications," 
which  appeared  in  the  November  issue  of  Jour- 
nal of  Metals.  He  serves  as  a  research  metallur- 
gist, metal  strip  research,  MPM  Division,  Pfi- 
zer Inc.,  Wallingford,  CT.  His  current  interests 
center  around  structure-property-processing 
relationships  of  spinodal  alloys  and  the  chemi- 
cal nature  of  electronic  contact  surfaces.  Prior 
to  joining  Pfizer  in  1982,  he  had  been  with 
Wyman-Gordon  Company  and  Norton  Com- 
pany. He  holds  an  MS  in  metallurgy  from  MIT. 


1976 


MARRIED:  Gary  Mezynski  and  Rosemary 
McBride  in  Wakefield,  MA.  Rosemary 
attended  Nova  Scotia  College  of  Art  and 
Design  and  Vesper  George  School  of  Art  in 
Boston.  She  works  for  MIT  Lincoln  Laboratory 
in  Lexington,  where  Gary  is  also  employed. 
Besides  WPI,  Gary  attended  Johns  Hopkins 
University.  .  .  .  James  Roberge  to  Christine 
Cafarelli  in  Schenectady,  NY,  on  November  4, 
1984.  She  graduated  from  Maria  College, 
Albany,  NY.  He  has  a  master's  degree  from 
URI,  Kingston,  RI,  and  works  in  the  gas  tur- 
bine department  at  GE  in  Schenectady,  NY. 

Daniel  Brock,  who  has  served  as  fire  captain 
with  the  Southboro,  MA,  fire  department  since 
1982,  is  also  an  instructor  with  the  Massachu- 
setts Firefighting  Academy.  He  holds  a  degree 
in  fire  science  from  Quinsigamond  Community 
College. 

Ross  Greenberg,  who  received  his  MD  from 
SUNY  Buffalo  in  1983,  resides  in  South 
Setauket,  NY. 

Madeleine  Gauthier  Lowe  is  employed  by 
Aerotronic,  Contoocook,  NH. 

Phil  McNamara  is  president  of  Power  Ser- 
vices Inc.,  San  Clemente,  CA. 

Ken  Scott  lives  in  Groton,  CT.  where  he  is 
employed  at  the  Electric  Boat  Division  of  Gen- 
eral Dynamics.  He  was  recently  promoted  to 
engineering  supervisor  of  the  seawater  systems 
group,  marine  engineering  department.  Ken 
enjoys  sailing  and  is  active  in  ASME,  serving 
this  year  as  chairman  of  the  local  section. 

Steven  Tuckerman  has  been  appointed  as 
town  planner  in  Coventry,  CT.  He  had  been 
East  Hampton's  planner.  He  holds  a  master's 
degree  in  planning  from  UMass. 

Dr.  Edward  Whittaker  continues  as  assis- 
tant professor  of  physics  at  Stevens  Institute  of 
Technology,  Hoboken,  NJ.  He  has  conducted 


research  at  the  Los  Alamos  Scientific  Labora- 
tory, the  Argonne  National  Laboratory  and  the 
Rutherford  Laboratory  in  England,  as  well.  The 
author  of  numerous  technical  publications,  he 
has  research  interests  in  the  application  of  high 
sensitivity  laser  techniques  to  various  types  of 
pure  and  applied  physics  problems.  He  holds 
master's  degrees  and  a  PhD  in  physics  from 
Columbia  University. 


1977 


MARRIED:  Jeffrey  Baumer  to  Elizabeth 
Lovejoy  on  November  17,  1984,  in  Springvale, 
ME.  She  attended  the  University  of  Southern 
Maine.  He  is  a  manufacturing  engineer  for  Pratt 
&  Whitney  Aircraft,  South  Berwick,  ME.  .  .  . 
John  Dyer,  an  alderman  for  the  City  of 
Milford.  CT,  and  Joanne  Foster  in  Poughkeep- 
sie,  NY,  on  October  13,  1984.  Joanne,  a  medi- 
cal secretary,  graduated  from  Becker  and  John, 
who  is  with  Vitramon  Corp.,  Monroe,  CT, 
holds  an  MSIE  and  MBA  from  the  University 
of  New  Haven.  .  .  .  Michael  Siegfriedt  and 
Michele  Mandeville  in  Winchester,  MA,  on 
October  21,  1984.  Michele  graduated  from 
Salem  State  College  and  is  an  RN  at  Massachu- 
setts General  Hospital  in  Boston.  Michael 
serves  as  the  manufacturing  systems  manager 
of  TRW  Fasteners  Division  in  Cambridge. 

Mike  Abrams  recently  received  his  MSEE 
from  the  University  of  Houston.  Currently,  he's 
working  for  Input/ Output  Inc.,  a  small  seismic 
data  acquisition  instrumentation  manufacturer. 
His  interests  include  spectral  analysis  and  time 
varying  filtering  and  noise  reduction  tech- 
niques. Also,  he's  teaching  a  course  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Houston,  the  first  networks  course  for 
electrical  engineers.  He  writes,  "It's  a  different 
experience  being  on  the  other  side  of  the  desk! " 

Last  year,  Fred  Baker  received  an  MS  in 
electronics  from  Oregon  Graduate  Center.  He  is 
now  starting  his  dissertation  research  for  a  PhD 
in  applied  physics.  His  topic  will  be  crystal 
growth  and  properties  of  gallium  arsenide. 

Annette  Bodley,  PhD,  has  accepted  a  post- 
doctoral research  fellowship  in  molecular  biol- 
ogy and  biochemistry  at  Johns  Hopkins  Univer- 
sity School  of  Medicine,  Baltimore,  MD, 
where  she  will  be  concerned  with  cancer 
research.  Last  June,  she  defended  her  thesis,  a 
study  of  "The  Mechanism  of  the  Calcium  Mag- 
nesium ATPase,"  examining  how  the  enzyme 
operates  thermodynamically  in  allowing  mus- 
cles to  relax. 

Bill  Cunningham,  who  works  for  Data  Gen- 
eral in  Cincinnati,  OH,  is  well  remembered  at 
Dartmouth's  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business. 
As  a  student  at  Tuck  in  1982,  he  designed  a 
T-shirt  with  the  slogan,  "Amos  Truck— Learn 
to  Drive  the  Big  Rig,"  which  earned  him  $3000 
in  sales.  Through  the  entrepreneur-ship  of  a  cur- 
rent Tuck  student,  the  T-shirt  is  now  making  its 
second  appearance. 

Arthur  Hyde  holds  the  position  of  chief 
planning  analyst  at  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn, 
MI. 


1978 


MARRIED:  William  Alexander  and  Pamela 
Simendinger  on  October  13,  1984,  in  Brook- 


MAY  1985       49 


_-<      •     •    ---c.     ore.: 
SH.  ■  *e 


J".    :-  :.r:.re-  I" 
MUdfWd 


-   V-    '~±-zz 


►  URL 
to.  Mefaae  KaUo.  <■  Sepufaer  2t,  19tt. 

I-  -.5-  5    ,-;->    5.:;-   -; 

x*  ereara  for  festae  of  Rhode  faaaaTsAa 

a: 


ICaaalHaaial 
ffaga  ScaooL  Taei 


MA.  oa  Sejacarixr  16.  19M. 

•'-:..-■     7       B :--:->■;    -.; 

»  *  Wean  Se« 

Tim.  woo  is  n  the  amr* 

k  m   -ocs  re  anal  :•:  aan 

■  Wa 


22,   19*4.  is 
Kl.  San*  tnkw 
CofcK    .  .  .  Jaaa  Zyca 
■  Ftovidcace.  RI.  oa  October  28, 
l«t.  lake  LJHhil  I  fen  BU.  Jaaa.  aao 

\~r»;  ■  I 
Corp.-  SbBasvafe.  RI 

r.  mho  has  aaVffiA  from  the  | 
Uaiwusirc  of  Qacaao.  stives  is  a  fiaaacol 
assocaatat RCA  ia New  York Ca>. 

hea  Cara  is  enpimed  as  fao- 

". :  . .".  .•=■>     ~ 
CT 
Capt_  Briaa  Ke*n  las  rocened  bts  MSEE 

~-    -c    -.  -    --:-:    '.-.<„:.- 1    ::'    .=•.."_-•:   :•;■• 
WtijM  Paamoa  AFB.  OH 


19S0 


September  2$.  19S5 
VLvRRILD:>Bcaad^BiifcilaadLbaMoa- 


?:•■ 


kml  MY,  oa  S>  f  awn  i 

>.>:;-->    -s±  ■>:  :::  T. 

=    :---:;,:-/-  5_.-..- 

-  'A    --;::-    .?  -•;  -  _ 

ve  for  the  firms  ide- 

I_.>ut>  TraTagjaaae  aad 

■chcz  ia  Santa  Clara.  CA.  oa 

17,  1984.  Aaabsa  j/ahiMil  fiwn 

Cora  aad  is  a 


~So*.  m  rite  second  la*  cf  thermodynamics 


WPI  JOURNAL 


William  Williams  and  Ann  Messier  in  Oxford, 
MA,  on  August  5,  1984.  Ann  attended  Fit- 
chburg  State  College  and  is  a  teacher.  Wil- 
liams, a  data  communications  analyst  at  State 
Mutual  in  Worcester,  is  studying  for  his  mas- 
ter's degree  at  WPI. 

Hildegard  Benneck,  who  has  been  traveling 
and  studying  Scientology  for  eight  months,  now 
has  a  new  job  with  U.S.  Telephone  in  Dallas, 
TX. 

Brian  Biernacki  has  taken  a  new  post  as 
product  marketing  engineer  for  the  eastern  half 
of  the  U.S.  with  Semiconductor  Circuits,  Wind- 
ham, NH. 

James  Drumm  is  a  process  engineer  for 
Texas  Instruments  in  Dallas. 

Oliver  Edwards,  now  on  a  leave  of  absence 
from  his  post  at  Exxon  Research  and  Engineer- 
ing, is  attending  Carnegie-Mellon  University, 
Pittsburgh,  where  he's  pursuing  a  master's  in 
applied  mathematics.  He  writes,  "I  feel  my 
work  experience  is  helping  me  gain  more  from 
graduate  study  than  I  would  have  gotten  if  I  had 
enrolled  as  soon  as  I  had  my  BS." 

John  Grasso  has  been  named  vice  president 
of  manufacturing  of  Genigraphics  Corporation, 
Liverpool,  NY.  Formerly,  he  was  director  of 
manufacturing. 

Paul  Normand  serves  as  a  senior  project 
engineer  at  Fairchild  Control  Systems  in  Man- 
hattan Beach,  CA. 

Rosemary  Murphy  O'Brien,  who  recently 
received  her  MS  in  chemical  engineering  from 
Tufts,  is  a  process  engineer  for  Badger  Engi- 
neers Inc.,  Cambridge,  MA. 

Pete  Schoonmaker  works  for  Northern 
Research  &  Engineering  Co.,  Woburn,  MA. 


1981 


MARRIED:  Christopher  Brandon  to  JoAnn 
Berry  on  September  8,  1984,  in  Ogunquit,  ME. 
JoAnn  graduated  from  BU  and  is  employed  by 
Cablevision  of  Boston.  Christopher  works  for 
Vanasse/Hangen  Associates  of  Boston.  .  .  . 
Cynthia  Canistro  and  Kenneth  Martin  in  Lan- 
caster, MA,  on  September  8,  1984.  Cynthia  is  a 
material  planner  at  DEC  in  Nashua,  NH.  Ken- 
neth, a  graduate  of  Northeast  Institute,  Boston, 
is  an  industrial  drafter  at  Sanders  Associates, 
Nashua.  .  .  .  David  Dombrowski  to  Nancy 
James  of  Somerville,  MA,  on  October  13, 
1984.  Nancy  has  worked  as  a  senior  secretary  at 
MIT.  David  serves  as  a  program  manager  for 
GE  (AEBG)  in  Evendale,  OH.  He  is  involved 
with  introducing  automation  and  new  technol- 
ogy into  the  production  of  aircraft  engines.  .  .  . 
Dale  Raczynski  and  Donna  Blackstone  in 
Wakefield,  MA,  on  October  27,  1984.  A 
teacher  at  Boston  School  for  the  Deaf  in  Ran- 
dolph, Donna  graduated  from  Anna  Maria  Col- 
lege, Paxton.  Dale  is  a  chemical  engineer  at 
Thibault  and  Associates  in  Providence,  RI.  .  .  . 
Lisa  Reis  and  Ross  Cash  in  Stoneham,  MA,  on 
September  2,  1984.  Lisa  is  a  production  super- 
visor for  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  Ross  graduated 
from  Alfred  State  College  and  is  a  manufactur- 
ing engineer  at  Kodak. 

Timothy  Daley  is  employed  as  a  general 
field  engineer  at  Dresser  Atlas  in  Graham,  TX. 

Jeffrey  Dick  works  as  an  applications  engi- 
neer for  Photon  Kinetics,  Beaverton,  OR. 

Timothy  Gottlieb,  no  longer  associated  with 
Gottlieb  &  Smith,  Consulting  Engineers,  has 


been  named  a  public  health  engineer  with  the 
Orange  County  Health  Department  in  Goshen, 
NY. 

Rick  Greene  holds  the  post  of  management 
science  analyst  with  Stop  &  Shop  Co.  Inc., 
Quincy,  MA.  He  is  studying  for  his  MBA  at 
Babson. 

Peter  Hinckley  works  as  a  product  engineer 
for  the  Torrington  Company,  Torrington,  CT. 

Susan  Hoffma  continues  at  Moshi  Technical 
School,  Tanzania,  East  Africa. 

Lt.  Frederick  Rook  has  graduated  from  the 
U.S.  Air  Force  communications  system  officer 
course  at  Keesler  AFB,  MS.  He  is  with  the 
6940th  Electronic  Security  Wing  at  Fort 
George  G.  Meade,  MD. 

Rick  Rykosky  was  recently  promoted  to 
plant  safety  director  at  Gatx  Terminals  Corpo- 
ration, New  Orleans,  LA.  The  firm  is  a  bulk 
liquid  storage  terminal  located  on  the  Missis- 
sippi River.  Rick  does  project  engineering 
work,  which  includes  design  and  facilities  man- 
agement. He  is  also  studying  for  his  MBA  at 
Loyola  University  in  New  Orleans. 

Mark  SanAngelo  is  a  project  engineer  with 
Briar  Contracting  Corp.,  Peeicskill,  NY. 

Gary  Winer  has  received  a  Juris  Doctor 
degree,  cum  laude,  from  New  England  School 
of  Law  in  Boston.  The  president  of  the  law 
school's  International  Law  Society,  he  repre- 
sented the  school  in  the  Jessup  International 
Law  moot  court  competition.  He  intends  to 
practice  law  in  Massachusetts. 


1982 


MARRIED:  Kevin  Nute  to  Deborah  Duston 
on  November  3,  1984,  in  Nashua.  NH. 
Deborah  graduated  from  Castle  Junior  College 
and  is  attending  Rivier  College.  She  and  Kevin 
are  both  employed  at  Sanders  Associates.  .  .  . 
Michael  Pacek  and  Elizabeth  Watters  in 
Auburn,  MA,  on  November  3,  1984.  An  RN  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  Cen- 
ter, Worcester,  Elizabeth  is  a  graduate  of  St. 
Joseph's  College,  West  Hartford,  CT.  .  .  . 
Douglas  Sieber  and  Margaret  Fisher  of  Car- 
lisle, MA,  on  May  5,  1984.  Margaret  is  an 
accounts  manager  for  Micro-Temps  Inc., 
Needham,  MA.  Douglas  continues  with  Haartz 
Auto  Fabric  Co.,  Acton,  MA.  .  .  .  Robert 
Tomaskow  and  Clara  Montana  on  November 
10,  1984,  in  Housatonic,  MA.  Clara  is  a  stu- 
dent at  Fisher  Junior  College.  Robert  serves  as 
a  product  assurance  engineer  with  Raytheon 
Service  Co.,  Andover,  MA. 

Fred  Berbig  is  a  project  engineer  with  Ward 
Engineering  Associates,  Springfield,  MA.  He 
has  his  MSCE  from  WPI. 

Patricia  Corriveau  serves  as  a  scientific  pro- 
grammar  analyst  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft, East  Hartford,  CT. 

Gregory  Doyle  continues  with  the  Federal 
Highway  Administration  in  Washington,  DC. 

Rene  Fontaine  was  recently  promoted  to 
engineer  at  Codex  Corp.,  Mansfield,  MA,  and 
has  purchased  a  house  in  Cumberland,  RI. 

Stefan  Hagopian  is  starting  his  second  year 
at  the  University  of  New  England  College  of 
Osteopathic  Medicine  (UNECOM)  in  Bidde- 
ford,  ME.  UNECOM  is  the  only  medical 
school  in  Maine  and  the  only  osteopathic  medi- 
cal school  in  New  England. 

Stephen  LeViness  continues  studying  for  his 


PhD  in  chemical  engineering  at  Rice  University 
in  Houston,  TX.  He  has  an  MS  from  WPI. 


1983 


MARRIED:  John  Atkinson  and  Sheryl  Hess 

on  October  27,  1984,  in  Toms  River,  NJ. 
Sheryl  is  with  Sikorksy  Aircraft,  Stratford,  CT, 
while  John  is  employed  by  Arthur  Andersen  in 
Hartford.  .  .  .  Joseph  Capua  to  Ellen  Morgan 
in  Woburn,  MA.  Ellen  graduated  from  Melrose 
Beauty  Academy  and  serves  as  an  account  rep- 
resentative with  Martini  Insurance  Agency, 
Woburn.  Joseph  works  for  Raytheon  Company. 
.  .  .  Patrick  Crowley  and  Margaret  McCarthy 
in  Yarmouthport,  MA,  on  September  29,  1984. 
Margaret,  a  Simmons  College  graduate,  is  an 
office  manager  for  PMC  Development, 
Patrick's  real  estate  development  firm.  .  .  .  Neil 
Dubois  to  Cheryl  Blanchard  in  Acushnet  on 
November  10,  1984.  Cheryl,  who  graduated 
from  Bridgewater  State  College  and  Northwest- 
ern University,  is  a  speech  pathologist  for 
Sargent  Rehabilitation  Center,  Providence,  RI. 
Neil  works  for  Naval  Underwater  Systems  Cen- 
ter, New  London,  CT.  He  is  also  enrolled  in  the 
master's  program  at  UConn.  .  .  .  Scott  Fortier 
and  Suzanne  LeClair  in  Weston,  MA,  on  June 
30,  1984.  Suzanne,  a  graduate  of  Regis  Col- 
lege, is  employed  by  Syscon  Corporation,  New 
London,  CT.  Scott  works  for  Naval  Underwa- 
ter Systems  Center,  New  London. 

MARRIED:  Ensign  Eric  Lantz,  U.S.N, 
and  Renee  Vaillancourt,  '84,  in  Groton,  MA, 
on  September  2,  1984.  Renee,  previously 
employed  by  DEC  and  GE,  will  be  appearing  in 
a  new  movie,  "Legend,"  slated  to  be  released 
this  spring.  Eric  is  a  U.S.  Navy  pilot.  Both 
Renee  and  Eric  are  trained  in  music,  dance  and 
choreography  and  have  performed  in  theatre.  .  .  . 

Mark  Majcher  and  Diane  LaJeunesse  in 
Worcester  on  October  6,  1984.  Diane,  office 
manager  at  MBS,  Inc.,  graduated  from  Quinsi- 
gamond  Community  College.  Mark  serves  as 
chief  analytical  engineer  at  NTS/ Action  Divi- 
sion. .  .  .  Peter  Marino  and  Mary  McCarthy  in 
Hingham,  MA.  Mary  graduated  from  Forsyth 
School  for  Dental  Hygienists.  Peter  works  as  a 
sales  engineer  at  M.A.  Olson  Co.  .  .  .  Donald 
Soubie  and  Mary  Beth  Barlow  on  September  1 , 
1984,  in  Jarrettsville,  MD.  She  graduated  from 
North  Hartford  High  School  and  works  at  Aber- 
deen Proving  Ground,  MD,  where  Donald  is 
also  employed. 

Alan  Carpenter  has  been  named  a  full-time 
civil  engineer  for  the  town  of  Plainfield,  CT. 
Previously,  he  was  a  civil  engineering  assistant 
in  the  Los  Angeles  County  Road  Department. 

Daniel  Cernese  is  now  a  software  engineer 
with  DEC,  Andover,  MA. 

Stephen  Cobb  works  as  a  structural  engineer 
at  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat,  Groton, 
CT,  as  well  as  for  Steve  Cobb  &  Sons  Inc., 
Norwell,  MA,  which  he  serves  as  a  consultant. 

Michael  Gagnon  works  for  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.,  Albany,  NY. 

Stephen  Lindquist  is  employed  as  a  senior 
engineer  with  DEC  in  Maynard,  MA. 

Elizabeth  Paul  is  working  for  her  PhD  in 
chemistry  at  MIT,  where  she  is  a  research 
assistant. 

Mark  Robichaud  serves  as  a  manufacturing 
engineer  at  International  Medical  Industries, 
Watertown,  MA. 


MAY  1985       51 


Sotir  at  Office  Center  Inc. 


*T)r."  Sam  Sotin  He  Births  Businesses 


When  a  new  business  is  in  the  incubation 
stage,  one  of  the  first  concerns  of  the 
fledgling  entrepreneur  is  often,  "What  do 
we  do  about  office  space?  It's  ex- 
pensive!" 

Sam  Sotir  '72  SIM  has  a  unique  pre- 
scription for  this  pre-natal  concern  of 
Worcester-area  business  people:  lease 
office  space  and  full  office  services  from 
his  Office  Center  in  Auburn,  MA.  "For 
about  a  third  of  the  cost  of  starting  your 
own  office  in  downtown  Worcester," 
Sotir  says,  "and  without  the  up-front 
capital  expenditure  of  constructing  a 
headquarters.'' 

Sotir  founded  Office  Center  Inc.  four 
years  ago  after  searching  for  an  appropri- 
ate start-up  company  of  his  own.  He  felt 
the  office  center  concept  would  be  a  good 
fit  with  his  background  in  financial  plan- 
ning and  management.  A  graduate  of 
Clark  University,  he  had  previously  been 
chief  accountant  for  the  abrasives  materi- 
als group  at  Norton  Co.  From  1974  to 
1975,  he  was  the  chief  financial  officer  at 
New  England  High  Carbon  Wire  Corp., 
Millbury.  In  1978,  he  founded  the  Phoe- 
nix Management  Corp.   of  Auburn, 


a  financial  management  consulting 
company. 

Since  starting  the  Office  Center,  Sotir 
has  helped  a  number  of  diverse  enter- 
prises to  get  started  with  low-cost  office 
space,  including  Sport  International, 
KDK  Fiberoptics,  Numen  Consulting 
Associates,  Sage  Systems  Inc.,  Woulas 
Associates,  Railroad  Salvage,  King  Cou- 
riers and  Pixelink  Inc. 

"Besides  furnished  office  space,  we 
offer  standard  services  such  as  secretarial 
assistance,  telephone  answering,  copier. 
Telex,  conference  room  and  a  mailing 
address,"  Sotir  explains. 

The  offices  are  effectively  500  sq.  ft. , 
because  of  the  services  supplied  in  the 
common  areas  of  the  center.  "Actually," 
he  says,  "we  offer  services  and  an  envi- 
ronment equivalent  to  those  enjoyed  by  a 
Fortune  500  company  executive." 

The  center  is  growing.  It  has  a  new  14- 
person  conference  room,  with  five  more 
offices  under  construction.  "We  are  con- 
sidering expansion  either  into  Westboro 
or  downtown  Worcester,"  Sotir  reports. 
Worcester  area  businesses,  it  seems,  like 
Sam  Sotir 's  Rx  for  success. 


1984 


MARRIED:  Shaiq  Haq  to  Dr.  Raheela  Ali  on 
November  9,  1984,  in  Pakistan.  Shaiq  has  an 
MSME  from  WPI  and  is  a  senior  engineer  at 
Dr.  A.  Q.  Khan  Research  Labs  in  Rawalpindi, 
Pakistan.  .  .  .  Deborah  Harrow  and  Charles 
Mulligan,  Jr.,  in  Fort  Devens,  MA.  on  October 
7,  1984.  Deborah  serves  as  a  systems  engineer 
at  IBM  in  Savannah,  GA.  Charles,  a  graduate 
of  the  U.S.  Military  Academy,  is  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Ft.  Stewart,  GA. 
.  .  .  William  Holland  and  Susan  Poirier  in 
Clinton,  NY,  on  June  30,  1984.  Susan  gradu- 
ated from  UMass  and  is  a  computer  operator  at 
Kelly  Services,  Binghamton,  NY.  Holland 
works  for  IBM  in  Endicott,  NY. 

MARRIED:  David  MacAdam  and  Mary 
St.  Thomas  in  Worcester  on  November  4, 
1984.  She  graduated  from  William  &  Mary 
College  and  is  a  biomedical  engineer  at 
Andover  Medical  Inc.,  Lowell,  MA.  David 
graduated  from  Holy  Cross  and  is  a  biomedical 
engineer  at  Biorad  Ophthalmic  Division,  Cam- 
bridge, MA.  Both  hold  master's  degrees  from 
WPI.  .  .  .  Keith  MacNeal  and  Paula 
Lamoureux  in  West  Springfield,  MA,  on  Sep- 
tember 8,  1984.  Paula  was  formerly  assistant 
director  of  sales  and  marketing  for  Mansfield 
Paper  Company  in  West  Springfield.  Keith 
works  for  DEC  in  Northboro.  .  .  .  David 
Metrano  and  Deena  Oriente  on  October  7, 
1984.  Deena  holds  the  post  of  industrial  engi- 
neer at  Data  General  in  Southboro,  MA.  .  .  . 
John  Pinette  to  Heidi  Emery  in  Rowley,  MA, 
on  August  19,  1984.  Heidi  graduated  from  Tri- 
ton Regional  High  School  and  is  a  bookkeeper 
at  die  First  National  Bank  of  Ipswich,  MA. 
John  is  computer  systems  manager  at  North- 
eastern University. 

BORN:  to  Sharon  and  Steve  Schoonmaker 
their  first  child,  Christina,  on  June  12,  1984. 
Christina's  grandfather  is  the  Rev.  Paul 
Schoonmaker  '56.  Her  uncle  is  Pete  Schoon- 
maker '80. 

Mary  Ingemi  has  been  employed  by  Data 
General. 

Stephen  Jencks  works  for  Varian  Associ- 
ates/Advanced LPD  Division,  Lexington,  MA. 

Barry  Joseph  is  with  the  Air  Force. 

Steven  Joyce  works  for  Sikorsky  Aircraft, 
Stratford,  CT. 

Corinne  Juneau  is  now  a  production  control 
specialist  with  General  Electric,  Binghamton, 
NY. 

Jeffrey  Junker  works  for  Adams-Smith. 

Ken  Kadezabek  has  joined  Sikorsky  Air- 
craft. He  has  an  MSME  from  WPI. 

Peter  Kaplan  is  employed  at  Precision 
Robots. 

Shoshanna  Kaplan  is  with  the  Foxboro 
Company. 

Marion  Keeler  has  been  named  an  Edison 
engineer  by  GE  in  Pittsfield,  MA. 

Brian  Keogh  works  for  the  Oceanic  Division 
of  Westinghouse  in  Annapolis,  MD. 

Amine  Khechfe  is  currently  a  sales  engineer 
with  the  Trane  Co. ,  La  Crosse,  WI. 

Gregory  Khederian  has  been  named  to  the 
staff  at  RCA. 

Robert  Kilroy  has  joined  the  Marine  Corps. 

Christopher  Kintz  has  been  employed  by 
Balco. 

Susan  Kirkman  is  a  civil  engineer  with  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Transportation. 


_ 


WPI  JOURNAL 


James  Knittel  works  for  New  Media  Graph- 
ics. 

Steven  Knopping  is  studying  for  his  MSME 
at  MIT. 

Jeffrey  Knox  has  taken  a  post  with  Eastman 
Kodak  Company. 

Steven  Kochman  is  with  the  Navy. 

Steven  Korb  is  employed  at  Research  Foun- 
dation of  New  York. 

Robert  Korkuc  has  been  employed  as  an 
Edison  engineer  by  GE  in  Philadelphia. 

Gabor  Korthy  works  for  Data  General . 

David  Krafcsik  is  now  with  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp. 

Steven  Krouse  is  a  graduate  student  at  MIT. 

Kurt  Krusinski  is  with  AT&T  Technolo- 
gies, Bell  Labs.  Currently  located  in  California, 
he  is  also  a  graduate  student  at  Stanford  Univer- 
sity. 

Richard  Kukucka  is  an  MBA  student  at  the 
University  of  Chicago  Business  School. 

Karen  Kulik  is  employed  as  a  field  engineer 
by  George  B.H.  MacomberCo.,  Boston. 

Bradford  Kullberg,  who  holds  an  MBA 
from  WPI,  is  employed  as  a  senior  engineer  at 
Polaroid  in  Waltham,  MA. 

Leonard  LaBua  has  joined  the  staff  at  IBM . 

Lisa  LaChance  works  for  the  Barden  Corpo- 
ration, Danbury,  CT. 

Stephen  Lajeunesse  has  joined  Data  Trans- 
lation, Marlboro,  MA,  as  an  analog  engineer. 

Debra  Lamontagne  is  employed  by  the  Gil- 
lette Co. 

Mark  Lanciault  has  joined  Raytheon  Com- 
pany, Bedford,  MA,  as  an  associate  engineer. 

Eric  Langevin  works  for  Con  Diesel  Mobile 
Equipment  Co. 

Peter  Langfield  has  been  employed  by  the 
Foxboro  Company. 

Susan  Langlais  has  accepted  a  systems  engi- 
neering post  with  Mitre  Corporation,  Bedford, 
MA. 

Ken  Lanier  works  for  LTX  Inc. 

Christopher  Lavallee  is  a  grad  student  in  the 
department  of  food  engineering  at  UMass. 

Paul  Lazecki  has  joined  Norden  Systems. 

James  Lee  works  at  Data  General. 

Dennis  Leonard  works  for  the  firearms  divi- 
sion of  Colt  Industries. 

Donald  Letson  is  on  the  staff  at  Raytheon 
Company. 

Thomas  Levergood  is  now  with  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation. 

Kenneth  Lindberg  works  for  Texas  Instru- 
ments in  Dallas. 

James  Linhares  is  a  second  lieutenant  in  the 
U.S.  Army. 

Richard  Linnehan  has  been  employed  by 
Raytheon  Co.,  Bedford,  MA. 

Ronald  Lion  is  a  graduate  student  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Michigan. 

Robert  Lokuta  works  for  Mitre  Corpora- 
tion. 

John  Long  is  with  Raytheon. 

Lisa  Longwell  works  as  an  associate  soft- 
ware engineer  at  Compugraphic  Corp., 
Wilmington,  MA. 

Fernando  Lopez  de  Victoria  now  works  for 
Lockheed  Missiles  &  Space  Co. 

Kenneth  Lovegreen  is  currently  working  for 
Texas  Instruments,  Lewisville,  TX. 

Barbara  Mace  works  for  the  Foxboro  Com- 
pany. 

Nancy  Mack  has  been  employed  by  Polaroid 
Corporation. 

Donald  Mackay  works  for  Data  Products. 


Bruce  MacRae  has  been  employed  by 
AT&T  Technologies. 

Richard  Madamba  is  working  for  Hamilton 
Standard. 

Vinod  Makhijani,  who  works  for  Lytron 
Inc.,  has  an  MSME  from  WPI. 

Patrick  Makridakis  has  joined  Raytheon 
Company,  Wayland,  MA. 

Peter  Manca  is  a  diagnostic  engineer  at  Data 
General  in  Westboro,  MA. 

Kenneth  Mann  works  for  IBM . 

Larry  Manor  has  been  employed  by  RCA. 

Frank  Manter,  who  holds  an  MBA  from 
WPI,  serves  as  a  senior  I&C  engineer  at 
Thermo  Electron  Corp.,  Waltham,  MA. 

Albert  MariniUi  has  joined  Mitre  Corpora- 
tion, Bedford,  MA. 

Michael  Mario  is  with  Bell  Labs.  He  has  an 
MSEE  from  WPI. 

Kenneth  Markoski  works  for  Emhart  Corp. 

Patricia  Martone  has  joined  Hewlett-Pack- 
ard. 

Paul  Maselbas  works  for  County  of  Los 
Angeles  Engineering  Recruitment. 

Andrew  Matthews  works  for  Data  General. 

Steven  Mayer,  who  has  an  MBA  from  WPI . 
works  as  an  engineering  system  programmer 
analyst  for  GE  in  Fitchburg,  MA.  He  also  is  a 
supervisor  for  Shaklee  nutrition  consultants. 
("A  home  business") 

Philip  McCarty  is  on  the  staff  at  System 
Development  Corp. 

Marie  McClintock  has  accepted  a  post  as 
software  engineer  with  DEC,  Marlboro,  MA. 

William  McConaghy  is  now  with  Du  Pont. 

Elaine  McDonald  is  working  for  DEC, 
Marlboro,  MA. 

John  McDonald  is  a  management  intern 
with  Consolidated  Edison,  New  York  City. 

William  McDonald  has  joined  Digital 
Equipment  Corporation. 

Russell  McFatter  is  now  a  programmer/ana- 
lyst for  Waldman  Eye,  Hackensack,  NJ. 

Michael  Mclntyre  serves  as  a  process  engi- 
neer (thin  films)  for  Data  General  in  Sunnyvale, 
CA. 

William  McLaughlin  is  with  CBS  Technol- 
ogy Center. 

Stuart  McLean  has  accepted  a  post  with 
Honeywell  Information  Systems. 

Kelly  McNagny  is  studying  for  a  PhD  in 
molecular  biology  at  the  University  of  Ala- 
bama. 

Mark  Melfi  has  joined  ITT-Telecom. 

James  Melvin  works  for  DEC,  Tewksbury, 
MA. 

Kevin  Menice  is  employed  at  Intel. 

Howard  Miller  has  joined  Hughes  Aircraft 
Corp.,  Long  Beach,  CA. 

Frank  Moizio  has  joined  Texas  Instruments 
in  Dallas. 

David  Mongilio  has  been  employed  as  a 
process  engineer  in  GE's  silicone  products  divi- 
sion, Waterford,  NY. 

Donald  Montgomery  works  for  DEC . 

Todd  Moore  is  now  an  associate  engineer 
with  IBM  in  Kingston,  NY. 

Theodore  Moran  serves  as  unit  manager  at 
Northrop  Corp.,  Norwood,  MA.  He  has  an  MS 
in  management  from  WPI. 

Lisa  Moreau  has  joined  American  Manage- 
ment Systems. 

James  Morin  is  with  Hitchiner  Mfg.  Co., 
Inc. 

Thomas  Morris  is  employed  at  MITRE  Cor- 
poration. 


Teresa  Moruzzi  works  for  MITRE  Corpora- 
tion, Bedford,  MA. 

Carl  Mosley  is  with  RCA. 

James  Mothersele  works  for  Hughes  Air- 
craft. 

John  Mundy  has  accepted  a  post  as  electrical 
engineer  with  C&C  Associates  in  Wilmington, 
MA. 

Brian  Murray  is  a  junior  civil  engineer  with 
the  Massachusetts  Dept.  of  Public  Works,  Bos- 
ton. 

Brian  Myrick  works  for  Digital  Equipment 
Corporation. 

Vinayan  Nair,  now  a  graduate  student  at 
Georgia  Tech  in  Atlanta,  has  an  MS  in  chemical 
engineering  from  WPI. 

krishnamurthi  Narayan  has  joined  the  Air 
Force. 

Richard  Nasman  works  as  an  environmental 
engineer  for  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Edison, 
NJ. 

Debbie  Neff  has  joined  GE. 

Nelson  Newhouse  is  with  the  U.S.  Army. 

Haidung  Nguyen  is  employed  at  IBM,  Boca 
Raton,  FL. 

Jack  Nickerson  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  California,  Berkeley. 

Robert  Norberg  serves  as  a  systems  engi- 
neer for  GTE-Government  Systems  Corp., 
Needham,  MA. 

Marty  Nowland  has  accepted  a  position  at 
Mitre  Corporation. 

Michael  O'Brien  has  joined  the  Foxboro 
Company. 

Stephen  Offiler  works  as  a  design  engineer 
for  Texas  Instruments,  Attleboro,  MA. 

Janet  O'Leary  is  now  at  Procter  &  Gamble, 
Cincinnati,  OH. 

Jonathan  Olson  has  accepted  the  post  of 
construction  superintendent  at  the  Henley- 
Lundgren Co.,  Shrewsbury,  MA. 

Steven  Opolski  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Rutgers  University. 

Shawn  O'Reilly  works  for  Data  General. 

Ensign  Michael  Ortolano  has  been  assigned 
duty  with  the  U.S.  Department  of  Energy, 
Naval  Reactors,  in  Washington,  DC. 

Robert  O'Shea  works  for  Raytheon. 

Thomas  Palasky  is  employed  as  a  process 
engineer  at  National  Semiconductor,  Danbury, 
CT. 

David  Paquette  holds  the  post  of  site  super- 
intendent at  Northover  Assoc. .  Westboro,  MA. 

Joseph  Parisi,  Jr.,  works  as  a  field  engineer 
at  DCM  Corporation.  Framingham.  MA. 

Karen  Patras  is  a  grad  student  at  Tufts  Uni- 
versity. 

Edward  Paulsen  works  for  LTX  Inc. 

Kyle  Peacock  works  for  IBM . 

Thomas  Pecorini  is  an  applications  engineer 
with  the  Chandler  Evans  Division  (firearms)  of 
Colt  Industries.  West  Hartford.  CT. 

Joseph  Perlik  is  employed  by  Tennessee  Gas 
Pipeline  in  Houston,  TX. 

Christopher  Petersen  has  joined  Raytheon 
Company. 

Diane  Peterson  works  for  Hughes  Aircraft 
Co. 

Sara  Jane  Phillips,  who  has  her  MSEE  from 
WPI.  has  accepted  a  post  with  AT&T  Bell  Lab- 
oratories, North  Andover,  MA. 

John  Pilczak  works  for  Raytheon  in 
Marlboro,  MA.  He  has  his  MSEE  from  WPI. 

Karl  Pilon  works  for  Sikorsky  Aircraft. 

James  Podsiadlo  serves  as  a  senior  engineer 
at  Data  General  in  Westboro,  MA.  He  and  his 


MAY  1985       53 


wife,  Vivian  (Hiscock)  '83,  hold  MBAs  from 
WPI. 

David  Polonsky  was  recently  commissioned 
i  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  upon 
graduation  from  OTS  at  Lackland  AFB,  TX. 
Currently,  he  is  assigned  to  Kelly  AFB,  TX. 

Luc  Poulin  is  now  with  Data  General. 

James  Pouliopoulos  works  for  GE. 

Sherman  Power  is  on  the  staff  of  Texas 
Instruments  in  Dallas. 

Evan  Pressman  is  with  the  Naval  Electron- 
ics Command. 

Richard  Priestley  is  with  General  Dynamics 
Electric  Boat  Division. 

Michael  Prince  is  studying  at  the  University 
of  California  at  Berkeley. 

Timothy  Proch  has  joined  the  staff  at  IBM. 

Michelle  Provencal  is  now  a  systems  pro- 
grammer/analyst with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft, East  Hartford,  CT. 

Andrew  Racicot  works  as  a  project  engineer 
for  Data  General,  Southboro,  MA. 

Ronald  Rappel  is  studying  for  his  MSEE  at 
RPI. 

Joseph  Ratte  has  joined  GE  in  St.  Louis, 
MO,  as  a  technical  marketing  trainee. 

David  Wnuck  has  joined  Coppus  Engineer- 
ing, Worcester,  as  a  sales  engineer. 

Craig  Wolpert  is  employed  as  a  programmer 
at  Computervision,  Bedford,  MA. 

Darrell  Wong  works  for  Reed  Rolled  Thread 
&  Die  Co.,  a  division  of  Litton  Industries. 

Douglas  Wood  works  for  Data  General. 

W.  Minot  Wood  is  a  grad  student  in  the  civil 
engineering  department  at  WPI. 

Mitchell  Wright  has  been  employed  by 
Honeywell  Information  Systems. 

Frank  Zanghi  has  joined  General  Dynamics 
as  a  career  development  foreman.  He  is  located 
at  the  Quonset  Point  facility  in  North  Kings- 
town, RI. 

Jay  Zavada  is  on  the  staff  of  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp. 

School  of 

Industrial  Management 

Robert  S.  Schedin  '43,  SIM  '57  of  East 
Brookfield,  MA,  was  awarded  the  Albert  J. 
Schwieger  Award  for  outstanding  achievement 
during  SIM's  36th  annual  mid-year  banquet, 
held  in  January  at  the  Pleasant  Valley  Country 
Club.  Schedin  is  president  and  chief  executive 
officer  of  Fairlawn  Hospital  Inc.,  Worcester. 
He  was  associated  with  the  Crompton  and 
Knowles  Corporation  of  Worcester  for  a  num- 
ber of  years  before  accepting  his  current  posi- 
tion in  1972.  Schedin  has  been  a  trustee  of 
Becker  Junior  College  and  the  United  Way  of 
Central  Massachusetts.  A  past  president  of  the 
Massachusetts  Coalition  of  Community  Hospi- 
tals, he  has  been  a  member  of  the  boards  of 
directors  of  the  Central  Massachusetts  chapter 
of  the  American  Red  Cross  and  of  Home  Fed- 
eral Savings  Bank.  He  is  a  member  of  the 
Finance  Committee  in  East  Brookfield. 

Jack  Shields  '69  has  been  named  to  the 
board  of  trustees  of  Clark  University  in  Wor- 
cester. He  is  vice  president  and  group  manager 
for  sales  and  service  worldwide  for  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.  Also,  he  is  co-chairman  of 
DEC's  marketing  sales  committee  and  a  mem- 
ber of  its  management  and  strategy  committees. 
Responsible  for  the  firm's  sales  and  customer 


service  organizations,  including  field  and  edu- 
cational services,  he  is  also  involved  with  the 
government  market  segment  and  international 
operations.  Jack  joined  Digital  in  1961  and  was 
promoted  to  vice  president  in  1981.  He 
attended  Harvard  Business  School.  .  .  .  Carl 
Swanson  '70  was  recently  appointed  vice  presi- 
dent of  quality  assurance  at  Fenwal  Incorpo- 
rated, Ashland,  MA.  Since  joining  the  firm  in 
1968,  he  has  held  several  engineering  posts, 
including  manager  of  protection  systems  engi- 
neering and  manager  of  production  engineer- 
ing. He  was  director  of  quality  assurance  prior 
to  his  latest  appointment.  .  .  .  Edwin  Larson 
'77  serves  as  general  sales  manager  of  Union 
Metal  Corp.,  Canton,  OH. 


Natural  Science  Program 

MARRIED:  Joan  Morse  '70  and  Harold 
Comeau  in  Peabody,  MA.  Joan  graduated  from 
Salem  State  College  and  is  a  teacher  in  Pea- 
body.  Comeau  graduated  from  the  GE  Appren- 
tice Program  and  served  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 
He  is  an  accountant  with  GE. 

Arthur  Clement  '70  is  a  physics  teacher  at 
Hopkinton  High  School  in  Contoocook,  NH. 
.  .  .  Judith  Doherty  '78  teaches  in  the  Norwell 
(MA)  School  System.  .  .  .  Nancy  Degon  '84  is 
a  teacher  in  the  Auburn  (MA)  Public  Schools. 
.  .  .  Francis  Halas  '84  serves  as  chairman  of 
the  science  department  at  Maiden  Catholic 
High  School,  Maiden,  MA. 


COMPLETED  CAREERS 


A.  Hugh  Reid  '11,  a  retired  sales  engineer, 
died  in  Worcester  on  December  2 1 ,  1984,  at  the 
age  of  95 .  A  native  of  Worcester,  he  graduated 
as  a  mechanical  engineer. 

Mr.  Reid,  the  former  head  of  the  Coburn 
Trolley  Track  Division  of  Wickwire  Spencer 
Steel  Co.,  Spencer,  MA,  had  also  been 
employed  at  Ludlow  Mfg.  Assoc,  and  Colo- 
rado Fuel  &  Iron  Corp.  as  a  sales  engineer.  He 
retired  in  1958.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi.  His 
son,  Douglas,  is  a  member  of  the  Class  of 
1941. 

Howard  F.  Wright  '12  of  Bristol,  CT,  passed 
away  on  May  18,  1984.  He  was  born  on  Dec. 
31,  1885,  and  graduated  with  a  BSEE. 

Also  a  licensed  civil  engineer  and  surveyor, 
he  had  worked  for  the  Bristol  engineering-sur- 
veying firm  of  Sperry  &  Buell.  For  many  years 
before  retiring,  he  was  with  the  New  Depar- 
ture-Hyatt Division  of  General  Motors.  He 
belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and  the  Masons,  and  he 
was  an  amateur  radio  operator. 

William  R.  Stults  '13  of  Macon,  GA,  passed 
away  in  January.  He  was  born  on  August  26, 
1889,  in  Charlotte,  MI.  He  received  a  BSME 
from  WPI. 

Prior  to  becoming  a  senior  partner  with  W. 
Kenyon  Drake  Associates  (architectural  engi- 
neers) in  Jacksonville,  FL,  Mr.  Stults  had 
served  as  an  architect  with  two  other  Florida 
firms  and  had  been  associated  with  Chase  Tur- 
bine Mfg.  Co.,  Orange,  MA.  He  retired  as  an 
architectural  engineer  in  1957. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Florida  Engineering 
Society,  the  National  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers  and  the  Baptist  Church.  Also,  he  had 
served  as  vice  president  of  the  Jacksonville 
Building  Code  Advisory  Board. 

Leslie  J.  Chaffee  '16,  president  of  the  former 
Chaffee  Brothers  Co.,  died  on  Nov.  2,  1984,  in 
Tacoma,  WA.  He  was  91 . 

After  receiving  his  BSME,  he  joined  the  fam- 
ily company,  Chaffee  Brothers  Co.,  in  Oxford, 
MA.  The  firm,  founded  in  the  late  1800s,  grew 
to  be  the  largest  manufacturing  company  in 
Oxford  after  World  War  II.  The  company  was 
closed  in  1961  when  Mr.  Chaffee  moved  to 
Tacoma. 

The  oldest  member  of  the  Oxford  United 


Methodist  Church,  Mr.  Chaffee  was  also  a  past 
commander  of  the  local  American  Legion  post 
and  a  member  of  the  Oxford  Board  of  Asses- 
sors, as  well  as  a  member  of  a  number  of  school 
building  committees.  He  was  a  World  War  I 
veteran  and  belonged  to  SAE.  He  was  the  father 
of  Gordon  Chaffee  '42. 

Hubert  H.  Frary  '16,  a  retired  woodturner, 
died  November  25,  1984,  in  Hyannis,  MA.  He 
was  born  on  March  5,  1895,  in  Charlemont, 
MA.  He  studied  mechanical  engineering  at 
WPI. 

After  working  in  the  wood-turning  business 
for  10  years,  he  moved  to  Worcester  in  1930 
and  was  employed  by  the  Loring  Manufactur- 
ing Co.  In  1935,  he  and  his  brother,  George, 
began  their  own  wood-turning  business  in 
Wilton,  ME,  which  they  operated  until  1970. 

Mr.  Frary  was  an  Army  veteran  of  World 
War  I.  He  belonged  to  the  Masons,  the  Ameri- 
can Legion  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 

C.  Leory  Storms  '16  of  Roselle,  NJ,  passed 
away  on  September  18,  1984,  after  a  short  ill- 
ness. He  was  90  and  a  native  of  Norwich,  CT. 

Following  his  graduation  as  a  civil  engineer, 
he  joined  Western  Union  Telegraph  Co.,  New 
York  City,  where  he  was  employed  until  his 
retirement  as  senior  field  engineer  in  1960.  He 
belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  the 
Scottish  Rite  Masons  and  the  board  of  trustees 
of  the  Roselle  Free  Public  Library,  which  he 
served  as  president. 

William  H.  Green  '17  of  Beaufort,  NC,  a 
former  toy  manufacturer,  died  October  5,  1984. 
He  was  born  on  November  30,  1894,  in 
Framingham,  MA. 

While  still  a  student  at  WPI,  he  joined  the 
U.S.  Army  Infantry  in  France  during  World 
War  I.  Upon  the  death  of  his  father,  he  became 
owner  of  the  former  Whitney-Reed  Co., 
Leominster,  MA.  Several  of  the  firm's  wooden 
hobby  horses  are  in  antique  toy  collections  in 
museums  across  the  country.  A  member  of 
Theta  Chi,  Mr.  Green  was  also  active  with  the 
Rotary,  the  Masons  and  the  Veterans  of  Foreign 
Wars. 

Robert  C.  Hanckel  '17,  a  retired  engineer  who 
worked  on  the  early  design  of  the  Distant  Early 


WPI  JOURNAL 


Warning  (DEW)  Lines,  a  surveillance  system 
in  northern  Canada,  died  in  Brockton,  MA,  on 
November  30,  1984.  He  was  90,  a  native  of 
Costa  Rica  and  a  graduate  civil  engineer. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Technical 
Advisory  Corp.,  New  York  City,  and  helped 
gather  data  for  preliminary  city  plans  for  Wor- 
cester, MA.  Later  he  was  with  S.  W.  Sawyer  & 
Son,  the  Philip  Carey  Co.  and  then  became  a 
member  of  Fireproof  Materials  Inc.,  Albany, 
NY.  Other  posts  were  with  the  New  York  State 
Department  of  Public  Works;  Stone  &  Webster, 
Boston;  the  Thompson  and  Lichtner  Co.  and 
Cleverdon  Varney  &  Pike,  Boston— as  well  as  a 
Boston  architectural  firm  and  Metcalf  &  Eddy. 
He  also  was  a  self-employed  structural  engi- 
neer. 

A  pioneer  in  the  use  of  pre-stressed  rein- 
forced concrete,  he  helped  introduce  forward- 
thinking  structural  designs  to  the  Boston  area. 
He  was  the  author  of  several  articles  and  reports 
in  his  field  and  was  a  professional  engineer  in  a 
number  of  states.  He  belonged  to  the  ASCE, 
ACI,  SPE,  the  Masons,  the  American  Legion, 
and  the  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution.  He 
was  an  Army  veteran  of  World  War  I  and  had 
served  as  president  of  the  Schenectady  chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Henry  W.  Sheldrick  '17,  a  retired  chief  engi- 
neer and  treasurer  of  Collier-Key  worth  Co., 
died  in  Gardner,  MA,  on  December  30,  1984, 
at  age  90.  He  was  a  native  of  Temple,  NH. 

Following  his  graduation  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer,  he  was  employed  in  the 
Worcester  and  Chicago  plants  of  the  Washburn 
Co.  He  was  then  with  Collier- Key  worth  Co. 
for  42  years,  retiring  in  1971.  During  World 
War  II,  he  was  instrumental  in  designing  and 
manufacturing  fire-extinguishing  and  fire  res- 
cue equipment  at  Walter  Kidde  Co.,  and  other 
prime  contractors  of  war  supplies. 

Active  with  his  local  Episcopal  Church  and 
with  World  War  I  veterans'  groups,  Mr. 
Sheldrick  also  had  a  long  association  with  the 
Boy  Scouts  of  America.  He  served  on  various 
committees  and  had  been  president  of  the 
Monadnock  Council,  as  well  as  a  member  of 
the  Camp  Collier  site  committee.  At  the  time  of 
his  death,  he  was  one  of  the  oldest  living  recipi- 
ents of  the  BSA  Silver  Beaver  Award,  which  he 
received  in  1934. 

Other  awards  included  the  Home  Town 
Builders  Award  (1971),  a  citation  from  Gov. 
Michael  Dukakis  (1978),  and  the  Outstanding 
Citizen  Award  (1982).  He  belonged  to  Tau  Beta 
Pi  and  had  been  associated  with  the  American 
Material  Handling  Society,  the  American  Ord- 
nance Association,  the  American  Society  of 
Tool  and  Manufacturing  Engineers  and  the 
Chamber  of  Commerce. 

George  F.  Wilkie  '18  died  October  10,  1984, 
in  Holden,  MA,  at  the  age  of  88.  He  was  a 
Worcester  native. 

Before  his  retirement  in  1961 ,  he  was  a  safety 
engineer  at  Pullman  Standard  Co.,  Worcester, 
for  40  years.  He  was  active  in  the  formation  of 
the  Worcester  chapter  of  the  American  Society 
of  Safety  Engineers  and  had  served  as  president 
of  the  group.  He  was  a  founder  and  president  of 
the  Sterling,  MA,  Senior  Citizens  Club. 

Mr.  Wilkie  was  affiliated  with  the  Episcopal 
Church  arid  the  Masons.  His  Alethia  Grotto 
Patrol  Drill  Team  won  competitions  in  the  U.S. 
and  Canada. 


Philip  H.  Holbrook  '19  died  in  Gardner,  MA, 
in  December.  He  was  born  in  North  Grafton, 
MA,  on  March  15,  1895.  He  studied  electrical 
engineering  at  WPI. 

He  was  the  retired  manager  of  the  Shrews- 
bury Light  Co.  Earlier  he  had  spent  more  than 
20  years  with  Massachusetts  Electric  Co. 

Mr.  Holbrook,  who  graduated  from  North- 
eastern University,  belonged  to  SPE,  the  Con- 
gregational Church  and  the  Masons.  He  had 
held  a  number  of  town  offices  in  Ashbumham, 
MA. 

Thomas  B.  Rutherford  '19,  a  native  of  Brook- 
lyn, NY,  passed  away  on  August  31,  1984.  He 
received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

For  many  years,  he  was  with  the  New  York 
State  Public  Service  Commission,  from  which 
he  was  retired.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  and  Tau  Beta  PI. 

Robert  A.  Peterson,  Sr.  '20  of  Pineland,  FL, 
died  last  summer.  A  graduate  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  born  in  Worcester  on  May  14, 
1897. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Morgan  Con- 
struction Co.,  Aetna  Standard  Engineering  Co., 
American  Steel  &  Wire  and  Carnegie-Illinois 
Steel  Co.  He  was  the  owner-president  of  Hot 
Mill  Consulting  Service  in  Pineland,  and  he 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi.  In  World  War  I,  he  served  in  the  U.S. 
Army. 

Albert  M.  Shaw  '20  of  St.  Petersburg,  FL,  has 
passed  away.  He  was  born  Feb.  18,  1897,  in 
Chicopee,  MA,  and  was  a  member  of  the  Class 
of  1920. 

He  studied  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI. 
From  1920  until  his  retirement,  he  was  with 
Worthington  Pump  &  Machine  Corp.  He 
belonged  to  ATO. 

Frank  K.  Brown  '21,  a  retired  vice  president 
of  Continental  Screw  Co.,  New  Bedford,  MA, 
died  on  October  20,  1984.  He  was  born  in 
Leicester,  MA,  on  September  17,  1897. 

He  earned  a  BSEE  at  WPI.  In  1926,  he 
joined  Continental  Screw  Co.  In  1964,  he 
retired  as  vice  president  of  manufacturing.  He 
was  a  member  of  TOT,  the  Poly  Club  and  Phi 
Sigma  Kappa,  and  he  was  the  father  of  Mar- 
shall Brown  '51. 

William  J.  Harrington  '23  died  in  Woon- 
socket,  RI,  on  August  5,  1984.  He  was  born  on 
May  22,  1896,  in  Millville,  MA. 

After  studying  chemistry  at  WPI,  he  attended 
Notre  Dame  University,  South  Bend,  IN.  For 
many  years,  he  worked  as  a  cost  analyst  for 
Uniroyal  Inc.  at  plants  in  Woonsocket  and 
Millville,  MA,  and  in  Mishawaka,  IN.  He  was 
a  World  War  I  Army  veteran  and  a  member  of 
the  American  Legion  and  the  AARP 

Simeon  C.  Leyland  '24  of  North  Caldwell, 
NJ,  died  on  June  21,  1984.  A  native  of  Fall 
River,  MA,  he  was  born  on  July  8,  1902.  He 
received  his  BSEE  from  WPI. 

He  joined  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp., 
Newark,  NJ,  in  1925  and  retired  in  1967  as 
general  manager  of  the  relay-instrument  divi- 
sion. Previously,  he  had  served  the  firm  as  a 
design  engineer  and  product  department  man- 
ager. 

A  life  member  of  the  IEEE,  Mr.  Leyland  also 


belonged  to  the  New  Jersey  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers,  the  Masons  and  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha. 

Emerson  A.  Wiggin  '26,  a  retired  school 
teacher,  died  in  Worcester  on  October  3,  1984, 
at  the  age  of  79.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  on 
January  31,  1905.  He  received  his  BSME  from 
WPI. 

From  1931  to  1960  he  taught  mathematics 
and  physics  at  South  High  School,  Worcester. 
Other  posts  included  sales  engineer  for  Sullivan 
Machinery  Co.,  and  insurance  analyst  for  Bet- 
terley  Associates. 

Mr.  Wiggin  was  a  50-year  member  of  his 
local  Masonic  lodge  and  a  former  member  of 
the  board  of  directors  of  the  Worcester  County 
Council  on  Alcoholism.  Active  with  the  Meth- 
odist Church,  he  had  served  as  a  lay  leader.  A 
World  War  II  Navy  veteran,  he  retired  in  1965 
as  captain  after  21  years  in  the  reserves.  He 
belonged  to  SPE. 

Richard  S.  Converse  '28  of  Montauk,  NY,  a 
longtime  employee  of  Shell  Oil  Co.,  died  Sep- 
tember 23,  1984.  He  was  born  on  March  15, 
1905,  in  Indian  Orchard,  MA,  and  later  studied 
at  WPI. 

He  had  been  employed  by  Shell  for  28  years, 
where  he  served  as  dispatcher.  Following  his 
retirement  in  1959,  he  built  and  operated  a  fam- 
ily resort  in  Montauk,  NY.  He  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

Herbert  T.  Grimshaw  '29  died  in  Fairfield, 
CA,  on  September  14,  1984.  He  was  76. 

For  many  years,  he  was  with  Pratt  &  Whit- 
ney Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  CT,  from  which  he 
was  retired.  He  belonged  to  ATO. 

Sherman  Dane  '30,  a  retired  tax  accountant, 
died  August  25,  1984,  in  Weymouth,  MA,  at 
the  age  of  76.  He  was  born  in  Reading,  MA. 

During  his  career,  he  was  with  Chamberlain 
&  Co.,  Hale,  Waters  &  Co.  and  Rockland- 
Atlas  National  Bank  of  Boston.  For  many  years 
he  was  department  head  at  Welch  &  Forbes, 
Boston.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  the 
Masons  and  the  North  Community  Church. 

John  H.  Wells  '30  died  in  Ormond  Beach,  FL, 
on  September  10,  1984,  following  a  short  ill- 
ness. A  native  of  Kennebunk,  ME,  he  was  born 
on  February  1,  1910. 

After  receiving  his  BSCE,  he  joined  Eastern 
Bridge  Co.,  Worcester.  He  was  also  affiliated 
with  the  State  of  New  Hampshire  (bridge 
designer)  and  Jackson  &  Moreland  Division- 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors  Inc.,  Boston. 
In  1975,  he  retired  from  Jackson  &  Moreland  as 
chief  engineer.  For  a  number  of  years  he  was  an 
instructor  in  the  evening  graduate  school  pro- 
gram at  Northeastern. 

While  with  Jackson  &  Moreland,  he  was 
responsible  for  the  structural  design  of  several 
major  projects,  including  the  Central  Maine 
Power  Co.  Wyman  station  and  the  NASA 
Lunar  Landing  Research  Facility  in  Virginia. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  ASCE  (fellow),  the 
American  Concrete  Institute  and  Sigma  Xi 
(associate),  as  well  as  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

John  E.  Lampron  '30  died  in  Springfield, 
MA,  on  October  13,  1984,  at  the  age  of  78.  He 
was  a  native  of  Cambridge,  MA. 
For  25  years  he  was  an  industrial  engineer  at 


MAY  1985       55 


r 


General  Electric  Co.,  Pittsfield,  MA.  Previ- 
ously, he  was  manager  of  Federal  Yeast  Corp., 
Springfield. 

Theodore  C.  Wyman  '36  of  Cambridge,  MA, 
passed  away  on  June  30,  1984.  He  was  born  in 
Boston  on  April  2,  1904. 

During  his  career  he  was  with  Engineering 
Service,  Woburn,  MA,  and  Massachusetts 
General  Hospital,  where  he  was  an  architectural 
draftsman.  In  World  War  II,  he  was  with  the 
Naval  Reserve. 

Dana  D.  Stratton  '38  of  Hershey's  Mill,  West 
Chester,  PA,  died  of  a  heart  attack  aboard  the 
Queen  Elizabeth  II  while  returning  to  New 
York  from  Bermuda  on  September  30,  1984. 
He  was  67. 

He  was  born  Jan.  20,  1917,  in  Northboro, 
MA,  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  (aeronauti- 
cal) engineer  from  WPI  in  1938.  In  1974,  he 
retired  from  government  service  after  35  years 
in  the  field  of  naval  aviation.  At  his  retirement 
he  was  the  director  of  the  Engineering  Specifi- 
cations and  Standards  Department  of  the  Naval 
Air  Engineering  Center  at  the  Philadelphia 
Naval  Base.  He  was  presented  with  the  Merito- 
rious Civilian  Service  Award  and  the  Navy's 
Outstanding  Services  Award. 

A  member  of  the  Standards  Engineers  Soci- 
ety, he  was  also  listed  in  the  Federal  Roster  of 
Key  Scientists  and  Engineers.  During  his  career 
with  the  Navy,  he  was  a  member  of  the  Council 
for  Military  Aircraft  Standards  and  served  as 
Navy  liaison  on  the  National  Aerospace  Stan- 
dards Committee.  Following  his  retirement,  he 
served  as  a  consultant  for  the  Navy. 

Mr.  Stratton,  who,  with  his  wife,  Rae, 
enjoyed  several  WPI  alumni  trips,  belonged  to 
a  local  golf  club,  model  airplane  clubs,  the 
Lions  Club,  the  AARP  and  the  National  Asso- 
ciation of  Retired  Federal  Employees.  He  was 
an  avid  fisherman,  gardener,  woodworker, 
model  airplane  builder  and  photographer.  His 
son,  Wayne,  graduated  from  WPI  in  1975. 

Robert  A.  Morse  '39  of  Amston,  CT,  died  on 
May  22,  1984.  He  was  born  in  Nova  Scotia  on 
March  12,  1912. 

After  receiving  his  BSME,  he  joined  Pratt  & 
Whitney.  Other  posts  were  with  Silex  Com- 
pany, Hartford  Special  Machine  and  the 
machine  division  of  Fuller  Brush  (sales  man- 
ager). He  was  active  with  his  local  Methodist 
Church  and  as  a  member  of  Hospitality  Lodge. 

Max  Bialer  '40  of  Dayton,  OH,  a  retired  chief 
engineer  at  Wright  Patterson  AFB,  died  May 
19,  1984.  A  native  of  Holyoke,  MA,  he  was 
born  December  17,  1917. 

An  electrical  engineer,  he  worked  for  Henry 
&  Wright  Mfg.  Co.,  was  a  radio  engineer  with 
the  Army  Signal  Corps  during  World  War  II 
and  later  held  the  same  post  at  Wright  Field  in 
Dayton.  He  became  chief  electronic  engineer  of 
the  resistor  section  at  the  base,  then  chief  of  the 
energy  conversion  section  for  the  USAE  He 
belonged  to  IRE  and  AEPi. 

C.  Harold  Stenlund  '40  died  in  North 
Smithfield,  RI,  on  July  8,  1984.  He  was  64. 

Mr.  Stenlund  was  born  Dec.  18,  1919,  in 
Worcester.  For  29  years,  he  was  with  the 
Felters  Co.,  Millbury,  MA.  Also,  he  had  been 
employed  by  the  American  Felt  Co.,  New- 
burgh,  NY,  and  Rochambeau  Worsted  Co., 


Lincoln,  RI,  where  he  was  an  overseer  in  the 
dye  house  at  the  time  of  his  death. 

He  belonged  to  the  American  Association  of 
Chemists  &  Colorists  and  SAE.  During  World 
War  II,  he  served  with  the  Marine  Corps  in  the 
Pacific. 

The  Rev.  Edward  G.  Jacober  '41  of  Ket- 
tering, OH,  died  of  a  heart  attack  on  August  8, 
1984.  A  native  of  Newark,  NJ,  he  was  born  on 
June  21,  1919.  He  received  a  BSME  from 
WPI. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  and  his  wife, 
Virginia,  had  just  come  to  the  states  for  a  year's 
furlough  from  Bethlehem,  Israel,  where  they 
were  serving  the  Christian  and  Missionary  Alli- 
ance Arab  Church  in  Jerusalem.  They  had  been 
missionaries  in  India  from  1951  to  1975,  then 
in  Israel  from  1975  to  1984.  The  Rev.  Jacober 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 


Robert  J.  Sargent  '42,  the  former  owner  of 
Germaine  Elevator  Co.,  died  in  Worcester  in 
October.  He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  June  18, 
1920,  and  received  his  BSME  from  WPI. 

Early  in  his  career,  he  had  owned  and  oper- 
ated Germaine  Elevator.  For  seven  years  he 
was  a  building  maintenance  engineer  at  Wor- 
cester State  College.  He  belonged  to  PKT, 
ASME,  the  Lions  Club  and  was  a  World  War  II 
Army  Air  Corps  veteran. 

J.  Bradford  Whitney  '73  died  November  26, 
1984,  in  Boston.  A  Worcester  native,  he  was 
born  on  August  26,  1951.  He  had  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  life  sciences  from  WPI. 

At  the  time  of  his  death,  he  was  manager  of  a 
chemical  plant  for  A.  E.  Staley  Manufacturing 
Co.  in  Van  Buren,  AR.  Previously,  he  was  an 
R&D  engineer  for  the  firm  in  Decatur,  IL.  He 
was  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 


FEEDBACK 


Editor: 

The  article  "Why  Teach"  [November 
1984]  reminded  me  of  my  teachers  who 
were  dedicated  to  opening  students' 
minds.  Their  only  pleasure  was  in  watch- 
ing the  youngsters  blossom. 

Recently  I  had  the  impression  that  this 
species  of  teacher  was  extinct.  Your  article 
has  gladdened  my  heart.  I  thank  God  for 
his  small  mercies.  Long  may  they  live  and 
enrich  the  traditions  of  WPI. 

S.B.  Pattani,  '41 
Gujarat,  India 

Editor: 

The  article  in  the  February  1985  issue 
titled  "The  Names  Behind  the  Washburn 
Story"  lacked,  I  feel,  two  names.  For  any 
student  who  entered  Washburn  in  search 


of  help,  Washburn  was  Joe  Gale  and  Felix 
Tozeski.  As  a  student,  you  never  went  to 
Washburn  to  get  help,  you  went  to  "see 
Joe  and  Phil."  The  number  of  students 
who  passed  "grunge  lab"  (ME  1800)  with 
the  help  of  Joe  and  Felix  is  uncountable. 

The  dedication  of  these  two  men  to 
teach  the  art  of  machining  to  the  students 
of  WPI  should  not  be  overlooked.  Any 
student,  regardless  of  discipline,  who 
sought  help  received  it  with  a  smile.  Joe 
and  Felix  always  gave  advice  and  guid- 
ance, and  the  simplest  of  projects  became 
a  learning  tool.  To  ME  students  of  the 
past,  the  names  behind  the  Washburn  story 
are  those  of  Joe  and  Felix.  It  may  be  a 
little  late,  but  thanks,  guys! 

Richard  Ferron  '82  ME,  '84  MSME 
Alliance,  Ohio 


56       WPI  JOURNAL 


BOOKS 


Recently  published  volumes  by  WPI  faculty. 


rill.<H!I(.l\S 

1  <H    llll.  IKlH.iiAI.  ■ 

Itl.lM  lil.K 

The  Origins  of 
the  Federal 
Republic: 
Jurisdictional 
Controversies  in 
the  United  States, 
1775-1787 

by  Peter  S.  Onuf 

Assistant  Professor  of  Humanities 
(Philadelphia:  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania Press,  1983,  284  pages) 

Historians  have  emphasized  the  founding 
fathers'  statesmanship  and  vision  in  the 
development  of  a  more  powerful  union 
under  the  federal  constitution.  In  The  Ori- 
gins of  the  Federal  Republic,  Peter  Onuf 
puts  the  founders'  achievement  in  a  differ- 
ent perspective  by  demonstrating  that  terri- 
torial confrontations  among  the  former 
colonies  played  a  crucial  role  in  shaping 
early  concepts  of  statehood  and  union  and 
provided  the  true  basis  of  the  American 
federalist  system. 

Struggles  over  jurisdiction  within  and 
among  the  American  states  made  the  insti- 
tution of  a  more  effective  central  govern- 
ment imperative.  The  book  deals  exten- 
sively with  the  quest  for  stable,  recognized 
boundaries  in  the  cases  of  three  states: 
Pennsylvania,  Virginia  and  New  York. 
Onuf  concludes  with  a  description  and 
analysis  of  the  new,  expansive  conception 
of  union  embodied  in  the  federal  constitu- 
tion—an optimistic  view  that  grew  out  of 
the  successful  resolution  of  jurisdictional 
disputes. 


are. 
saying  about 
peace  and  war? 

Thomas  A.  Sharon 


What  Are  They 
Saying  About 
Peace  and  War? 

by  Thomas  A.  Shannon 
Professor  of  Religion  and  Social 
Ethics,  WPI;  and  Associate 
Professor  of  Medical  Ethics, 
University  of  Massachusetts 
Medical  School 


(New  York:  Paulist  Press,  1983, 
131  pages) 

There  is  no  more  burning  issue  in  the 
churches  today  than  the  question  of  war, 
nuclear  arms,  disarmament  and  peace. 
What  Are  They  Saying  about  Peace  and 
War?  presents  a  broad  analysis  of  the  dis- 
cussion as  it  has  developed  in  the  Roman 
Catholic  community.  The  book  begins 
with  a  survey  of  the  teaching  of  major 
world  religions  and  focuses  in  on  the  spe- 
cial developments  in  Catholicism.  There 
are  detailed  analyses  of  the  works  of  sev- 
eral American  theologians  and  of  recent 
statements  issued  by  American  bishops  on 
the  subject.  A  special  treatment  is  given  to 
the  background  of  the  American  bishops' 
pastoral  letter  on  war  and  peace,  which 
should  prove  to  be  a  particularly  signifi- 
cant statement.  Dr.  Shannon  examines  its 
origin,  relation  to  the  tradition,  and  its 
contribution  to  the  development  of  moral 
teaching  on  peace  and  war. 

The  book  will  be  very  helpful  for  a 
wide  range  of  readers— religious  education 
programs,  discussion  groups,  college 
courses— anyone  interested  in  learning 
about  the  origins  and  development  of  the 
Just  War  theory  and  its  contemporary 
applicability,  as  well  as  the  new  directions 
in  thinking  about  the  morality  of  war. 


rJansQ.  Tharnktun 


Engineering 

Program 

Management 


By  Hans  J.  Thamhain 

Associate  Professor  of 

Management 

(New  York:  John  Wiley  &  Sons, 

1984,  350  pages) 

This  practical  guide,  the  result  of  20  years 
of  engineering  and  project  experience, 
provides  today's  managers  with  the  latest 
tools,  methods  and  systems  to  ensure  suc- 
cess in  planning,  organizing  and  directing 
engineering  projects.  Emphasizing  the 
manager's  role  as  a  team  builder,  Engi- 
neering Program  Management  uses  cur- 


rent research  findings  to  show  managers 
how  to  increase  their  leadership  effective- 
ness; build  cohesive,  motivated  and  more 
productive  work  teams;  and  resolve  the 
inevitable  conflicts  that  occur  within  an 
organization. 

Besides  its  immediate  value  as  a  guide 
for  working  project  managers,  Engineer- 
ing Program  Management  also  serves  as  a 
handbook  for  professional  development 
seminars  and  as  a  vital  reference  for  grad- 
uate-level studies  in  engineering  and  man- 
agement. 


11IM  V  .1 II  .V 
STOJMII/ 


ORGANIC 
CHEMIST" 


Organic 
Chemistry 

By  Stephen  J.  Weininger 

Professor  of  Chemistry,  WPI,  and 

Frank  R.  Stermitz,  Colorado  State 

University 

(New  York:  Academic  Press, 

1984,  1,121  pages) 

Organic  Chemistry  is  a  textbook  designed 
to  serve  students  taking  a  full-year  intro- 
ductory course.  It  is  normally  given  in  the 
sophomore  year,  and  its  principal  clients 
major  in  chemistry,  chemical  engineering 
and  the  life  sciences,  and  include  pre-med- 
ical  and  pre-dental  students. 

The  authors  stress  an  understanding  of 
the  three-dimensional  structure  of  mole- 
cules as  a  prelude  to  understanding  their 
chemistry.  Once  the  structural  aspects  are 
firmly  grounded,  the  text  discusses 
organic  reactions  based  on  a  standard 
functional  group  organization.  In  addition 
to  reactions,  it  also  emphasizes  modern 
analytical  techniques,  particularly  spectro- 
scopic ones. 

Organic  chemistry  is  a  subject  of  enor- 
mous utility  as  well  as  being  worthy  of 
study  for  itself.  The  text  therefore  includes 
many  examples  of  industrial  and  biologi- 
cal application,  which  are  uniquely  devel- 
oped alongside  the  fundamentals.  Finally, 
the  discussion  is  enlivened  and  humanized 
by  highlighting  the  history,  personalities 
and  social  impact  of  organic  chemistry. 


HERE'S  THE  LINEUP! 


REUNION  1985 


May  30-June  2 


Boston  Pops 


Alumni  golf  tourney 
Alden  Labs  tour 
Campus  tours 
Institute  Day  '85— NEW— 
An  afternoon  of  personal  growth  and  development: 

Motivating  people 

Effective  communication 

Awareness,  Communication,  Teamwork  (ACT) 

Effective  listening 
Alumni  tennis  tournament 
Trip  to  Spags— always  an  adventure! 
Traditional  Clambake 
Good-Old-Days  Get-Together 
Hospitality  suites 

PLUS 

The  usual  class  receptions,  dinners  and  get-togethers 


Saturday,  June 


50- Year  Associates  meeting 
Departmental  open  houses 

CM 

CE 

EE 

ME 
Worcester  Art  Museum  visit 
WPI  Today 
Reunion  Parade 
Worcester  bus  tour 
"Color  Me  Beautiful" 
Calligraphy  seminar 
Campus  tours 

Sunday,  June  2 
Brunch 
Campus  tours 


o  o  r- 

X  c  o 

-*1  O  X) 

o  r-  >» 

X)  m 

a  -<  -i 

2  X)  CD 

>OXJ 


o 


en 


L  FOR  REUNION  '85 


