mm 

pra 


i 


i 


tSSw 

'■"■•■";■ 

■■■■{■■  '■•-.<  : 

'.::;;:■.,"!• 
Ifflsssis 

■>■■;" :  :V';' 


ill 


aws*! 


llililH 


3Q&1& 


((  orccstcrpolutcchnic institute 
Ocorgc  £.  Gordon  "Cibraru 


/ 


August  1973 


T-- 


The  Theory  of  Alpha  and  Omega  on  Planet  Earth 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  Research  and  Development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leaders  in  the  development  of  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON1 

Worcester— North  Grafton  — Millbury 
Midwest  Division:  Harvey.  Illinois 

Subsidiaries 

REISNER  METALS,  INC. 
South  Gate.  California 

ROLLMET,  INC. 
Santa  Ana.  California 

ROME  INDUSTRIES,  INC. 
Cedartown.  Georgia 

WYMAN-GORDON  INDIA.  LTD 
Bombay.  India 

Sales  Offices  Worldwide 


iii:mp 


Vol.  77,  No.  1 


August,  1973 


2  The  Theory  of  Alpha  and  Omega  on  Planet  Earth 

20  Reunion  1973 

21  A  Cry  for  Help  (i.e.,  a  questionnaire) 
30  Boomer 

34  New  Association  President's  Hats  for  3  Alumni 

36  Mike  Curtis'  Low-flying  Airplane 

40  Good  Luck  Coach 

43  Gosh  kids  .  .  .  It's  Captain  Gary  Time 


Departments 


28     Completed  Careers 
32     Your  Class  and  Others 


The  Cover:  A  literal  interpretation  of  part  of  the  Theory  of 
Alpha  and  Omega  (see  page  2).  The  photograph  of  the 
earth  was  taken  by  the  crew  of  Apollo  1 7,  used  by  courtesy 
of  NASA. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
Richard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
Editor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  Presidents:  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman; 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L.  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


The 
Theory 

of 
Alpha  and 

Omega 

on  Planet 

Earth 


copyright  1973 

by  Andreas  and  Annette  de  Rhoda 


WITH  THIS  ISSUE  of  the  WPI  Journal,  we  break  new 
ground.  The  article  beginning  here  is  distinctly  different 
from  anything  ever  before  printed  in  the  magazine.  It  is  a 
thought-provoking  piece  which  develops  an  entirely  new 
theory  of  evolution,  encompassing  not  only  the  physical 
evolutionary  process  as  worked  out  by  Darwin  but  the 
evolution  of  the  human  mind  as  well.  It  touches  on 
science,  on  philosophy,  and  on  religion. 

Whatever  we  do,  whether  we  are  engineers,  scientists, 
businessmen,  housewives,  or  editors,  the  primary 
process  which  attends  our  lives  and  actions  is  that  of 
information  flow — learning,  reacting,  correcting, 
daydreaming,  adjusting,  confirming,  denying, 
evaluating — all  that  we  do  involves  the  processing  of 
information,  either  consciously  or  unconsciously. 
Technology,  in  the  form  of  the  electronic  digital 
computer,  has  extended  our  collective  capacity  for 
information  storage  and  manipulation  to  an  incredible 
degree.  But  when  we  try  to  examine  the  effects  of  this 
information  handling,  when  we  ask  the  questions  Why? 
and  What  Will  Happen?,  we  find  ourselves  often 
without  answers  and  into  the  realm  of  metaphysics. 

This  is  what  happened  to  Andreas  de  Rhoda,  when, 
while  working  for  IBM  in  1963,  he  began  studying  the 
impact  of  computer  technology  and  automation  and 
contemplated  the  almost  frightening  rate  of  acceleration 
of  technology.  It  was  five  years  later  that  he  met  his 
wife,  Annette  Hall  de  Rhoda,  who  had  spent  eleven 
years  in  the  study  of  comparative  religions  and  religious 
experience.  Attempting  to  bridge  the  gaping  chasm 
between  their  respective  viewpoints  of  technology  and 
religious  experience,  the  de  Rhodas  began  exploring 
some  of  the  basic  human  questions. 

An  award-winning  journalist,  Andreas  has  worked  for 
IBM,  General  Dynamics,  and  United  Press,  and  has 
served  as  a  consultant  to  the  governments  of  West 
Germany  and  to  the  State  University  of  New  York. 
During  Intersession  1973,  Andreas  spoke  on  campus, 
and  he  is  scheduled  to  offer  a  course  in  the  alpha- 
Omega  theory  during  Intersession  1974. 

Developing  their  "Theory  of  alpha  and  Omega", 
validating  its  concepts,  exploring  its  ramifications,  and 
explaining  it  to  others,  has  become  the  life  work  of  the 
de  Rhodas.  This  article  is  an  outline,  a  precis,  of  their 
theory.  To  do  it  justice  would  require  far  more  space 
than  a  year's  worth  of  Journals  could  provide.  The  de 
Rhodas  are  working  on  a  fuller  explication  of  the  theory 
in  book  form. 

As  you  read  this  article,  you  may  find  yourself 
exhilarated,  outraged,  or  befuddled.  You  may  throw  it 
down  and  consider  it  poppycock.  But  you  just  might 
find  that  it  clarifies  some  of  your  own  inner  feelings, 
thoughts  which  you  perhaps  could  never  quite  put  into 
words,  experiences  which  didn't  quite  make  sense.  I 
promise  you,  if  you  read  through  to  the  end,  you  will 


have  some  very  definite  reaction  to  the  theory  of  alpha 
and  Omega. 

WPI  has  become,  in  recent  years,  a  pioneering  sort  of 
place.  We  are  not  content  to  rehash  the  old  and  familiar. 
We  ask  others  embarrassing  questions — and  we  ask 
ourselves,  too.  We  do  old  things  in  new  ways,  and  we 
do  new  things  in  different  ways.  We  have  done  things 
which  were  called  controversial,  things  called  absurd, 
and  things  called  prophetic.  As  to  which  category  best 
fits  this  article,  that  is  obviously  up  to  the  judgment  of 
the  future.  Niels  Bohr,  the  Nobel  Prize  winning  nuclear 
physicist,  once  listened  intently  to  a  young  scientist 
presenting  a  new  theory.  Afterwards  Bohr  said  to  him: 
"Your  theory,  young  man,  sounds  crazy.  The  only 
question  is:  Is  it  crazy  enough  to  be  true?" 

One  last  comment:  If  perchance  you  think  this  article 
inappropriate  for  the  Journal,  remember  that  the  highest 
degree  that  can  be  earned  from  WPI — indeed,  the  highest 
scientific  degree  awarded  by  any  university  (with  but 
a  few  exceptions) — is  called  the  doctor  of  philosophy  .  .  . 
not  science,  not  engineering.  Finally,  I  would  like  to 
join  the  de  Rhodas  in  soliciting  your  reaction  to  this 
article.  If  there  is  sufficient  interest  aroused,  then 
perhaps  in  a  future  issue  we  can  continue  the  dialogue 
between  author  and  reader. 

— Russell  Kay 


M 


an  is  about  to  take  a  second  leap  in  evolution.  His 
first  leap  brought  him  out  of  animal  awareness  into 
human  self-awareness.  His  second  one  will  bring  him 
into  a  still  higher  awareness,  transforming  him  into  a  new 
species  almost  as  advanced  over  man  as  man  is  over  the 
dolphin  and  chimpanzee. 

The  transitional  phase  of  this  event,  the  time  required  for 
every  human  adult  to  understand  its  meaning  and  to  decisively 
experience  its  effects,  is  likely  to  take  no  more  than  three 
decades. 

The  new  species'  behavior  will  be  characterized  by 
harmony,  its  intellect  by  genius.  All  conflict  —  physical, 
political,  economic,  religious,  ideological,  and  emotional  —  will 
cease.  Goods  and  services  will  become  as  universally  accessible 
as  air  is  now.  Crime  will  vanish,  law  enforcement  become 
unnecessary,  government  be  reduced  to  service  functions. 
Individual  liberties  will  be  unrestricted  and  unabused.  Disease 
will  disappear,  along  with  the  fear  of  death.  .  .  and  possibly,  at 
some  point  in  the  future,  death  itself.  Once  upon  a  time  this 
Utopia  would  have  been  summarized  as  "the  coming  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God  on  Earth." 

If  these  predictions  have  a  familiar  ring,  they  have  been 
uttered  for  centuries  from  intuitive  foreknowledge.  Today, 
however,  man  has  the  data  and  the  concepts  he  needs  to  be 
able  to  look  upon  this  event  as  an  outcome  of  evolution  rather 
than  as  a  miracle.  Science  has  not  predicted  this,  partly 
because  science  has  so  far  concentrated  on  the  basic  aspects  of 
matter  rather  than  on  human  behavior.  Yet  scattered  through- 
out scientific  and  other  literature  and,  indeed,  throughout 
human  experience,  are  the  patterns  and  the  evidence  to 
support  this  prediction. 

The  new  species  can  emerge  quickly  because  it  has  been 
growing  inside  man's  unconscious,  like  a  butterfly  in  a 
caterpillar,  ever  since  we  became  man,  at  least  1.5  million 
years  ago.  Its  emergence  into  consciousness  constitutes  one 
essential  part  of  the  appearance  of  the  new  species  —  the  new 
you,  the  new  we,  the  new  everyone. 

The  Speed- Up  of  Evolution 

The  process  of  evolution  began  extremely  slowly,  then 
suddenly  accelerated  at  an  extreme  rate.  This  applies  to  the 
evolution  of  species  (body  forms)  and  man's  behavior  patterns 
as  expressed  in  intelligence  and  creativity. 

It  was  not  until  our  own  century  that  this  enormous 
acceleration  in  both  animal  species  evolution  and  human 
development  began  to  be  recognized.1  Figure  A  shows  the 
explosive  acceleration  in  the  volume  and  variety  of  plant  and 
animal  life  over  the  4.5  billion  years  Earth  has  existed:  It  took 
more  than  4  billion  years  for  the  first  living  cells  to  achieve 
reproduction  by  sexual  means;  after  that  it  took  a  compara- 
tively short  600  million  years  to  produce  the  variety  and 
volume  of  life  we  know  today. 

Likewise  it  took  man  approximately  1,484,000  years  (out 
of  his  estimated  minimum  of  1,500,000  of  existence)  to  be 


present 


4.5 


rapid  organic  evolution 


photosynthesis 


slow  organic  evolution 


chemical  evolution 


formation  of  the  earth 


Figure  A 

Organic  evolution  on  the  Earth,  as  shown  by  the  explo- 
sive increase  of  life  forms  in  successively  briefer  episodes 
of  biological  advance.  (Adapted  from  a  chart  in  "The 
Oldest  Fossils,"  by  Elso  S.  Barghoorn,  Scientific  American, 
May  1971,  p.  41.) 


able  to  engage  in  agriculture,  the  economic  basis  of  civiliza- 
tion. Then  it  took  a  mere  16,000  years  to  produce  that 
modern  civilization. 

In  Figure  Bl,  the  horizontal  line  stands  for  time,  for  the 
1.5  million  years  of  man's  existence.  The  vertical  line  stands 
for  the  development  of  science  and  technology  with  the  vast 
social  changes  resulting  from  it.  To  dramatize,  we  have 
borrowed  biologist  Robert  Francoeur's  device  in  fitting  this 
time  span  into  a  regular  calendar  year:  January  1  marks  man's 
appearance;  midnight  December  31  marks  the  year  2000  A.D., 
now  27  years  away;  each  day  represents  4,000  years.  This  is 
how  Francoeur  sees  this  time  span: 

Man's  evolutionary  progress  was  at  best  tedious  and  halting:  fire 
first  for  protection  from  the  cold  and  wild  animals  and  only 
much  later  for  cooking;  tools  chipped  from  stone;  the  skills  of 
hunting;  the  slow  concentration  and  involutions  of  the  cerebral 
cortex.  Summer  came  and  went,  and  fall  was  two-thirds  through 
its  course  when  the  Neanderthal  man  finally  appeared  around 
November  1.  The  first  indications  of  religious  belief  can  be  seen 
in  the  burial  sites  of  the  late  Neanderthaloids  around  December 
1  in  our  scheme. 

By  December  24  in  our  hypothetical  year,  all  the  non-sapiens 
or  primitive  forms  of  man  had  died  out  or  been  absorbed  by  the 
more  progressive  and  modern  Cromagnon  man.  Agriculture 
began  around  December  28  and  the  whole  of  our  historical  era, 
the  brief  six  thousand  to  ten  thousand  years  for  which  we  have 
records,  is  nestled  in  the  last  two  days  of  the  'year'.1 

Figure  B2  shows  that  the  great  empires  of  Babylon,  China, 
Egypt,  and  Rome  rose  and  fell  in  the  morning  of  December 
31.  Socrates,  Plato,  and  Aristotle  lived  around  9:  30  a.m.  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  was  born  at  12  noon. 

Man's  earliest  tools  and  knowledge  have  a  long  history  but 
the  achievements  that  produced  modern  civilization  in  terms 
of  technology  and  science  are  a  mere  four  centuries  old;  all 
this  took  place  in  the  last  three  hours  of  New  Year's  Eve.  At 
8:57  p.m.  Columbus  discovered  America;  at  9:16  Copernicus 
proved  the  Earth  orbits  the  sun;  at  10:27  Watts  perfected  his 
steam-engine;  at  11:09  Darwin  and  Wallace  proved  man 
evolved  out  of  primitive  life  forms;  11:41  Fermi  split  the 
atom;  11:42  the  first  computer  was  built;  Sputnik  went  into 
orbit  at  11:46  and  the  first  man  landed  on  the  moon  three 
minutes  later.  The  time  is  now  1  1 :50. 

This  acceleration  of  the  evolutionary  process  will  continue. 
The  question  which  we  are  attempting  to  answer  here  is: 
Where  is  this  process  headed  and  why? 

The  research  which  lies  behind  this  article  was  prompted 
largely  by  personal  experiences.  Some  were  psychic,  involving 
extrasensory  perception  (ESP);  some  were  of  the  more 
traditional  religious  type,  others  came  as  intuitive  ideas  in  the 
t"i  m  ot  abstract  mental  pictures  which  ottered  fresh  and 
promising  insights    As  we  began  to  read  in  related  fields,  such 

.is  psychology,  psychical  research,  biology,  philosophy,  and 

theology,  we  came  across  countless  data  and  concepts  which 

tilted    into    the    overall    developing   picture,   the   pgsaw    puzzle 


_o 

o 

c 

-C 

o 
o 

+-> 
T3 

c 

CD 

CD 
O 

c 

CD 


0 
O 

c 

CD 

> 
T3 


1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 r 

Jan     Feb    Mar     Apr    May  June  July   Aug     Sep     Oct     Nov     Dec 

Figure  B1 

Scientific  and  technological  advance  during  man's  1.5 
million  years  of  existence,  expressed  as  a  single  year. 
One  month  =  144,000  years,  one  day  =  4,000  years.  Al- 
though no  specific  quantitative  units  are  given  for  the 
advance  of  science  and  technology,  many  different 
measures  could  be  used:  available  power  per  capita, 
speed  of  communication  and/or  transportation,  per- 
capita  consumption  of  goods  and  services,  for  example. 


CD 

_o 

o 

c 


T3 

C 

ro 

CD 

o 

c 


a> 
o 

c 
cd 

> 

CD 


3  a.m.     6  a.m. 


t 1 r 

9  a.m.     1  2  noon     3  p.m. 
500 


6  p.m. 
1000 


HOURS 
YEARS 

Figure  B2 

The  last   "day"  of  the  evolutionary   "year 
expansion  of  the  last  part  of  Figure  B1 . 


i 1 

9  p.m.  midnight 
1500 


of  man,  an 


which  was  being  assembled  from  our  hunches.  The  outcome  of 
this  work  we  call  the  "Theory  of  alpha  and  Omega."  In  the 
following  pages  we  will  try  to  describe  it  in  brief  outline. 


A  New  Earth 

Taken  together,  the  mosaic  of  our  intuitive  glimpses  and  other 
findings  shows  the  Earth  as  a  fully  automatic,  living,  informa- 
tion-processing system  which  is  centrally  controlled,  centrally 
evolving  and  learning,  and  centrally  arriving  at  certain  evolu- 
tionary breakthroughs.  What  we  see  in  fact,  is  a  living 
intelligence  existing  on  a  global  scale  —  a  giant  "brain"  or,  as 
we  prefer  to  call  it,  a  biocomputer.  (This  is  not  a  unique  view; 
Edward  Fredkin  of  MIT  and  others  have  been  quoted  as 
speculating  that  the  universe  might  be  "a  cellular  automaton 
run  by  a  giant  computer."3  Within  the  "memory  banks"  of 
this  biocomputer,  no  event  or  knowledge  or  experience  or 
individual  human  being  who  has  ever  existed  has  been  lost. 
They  are  all  still  here,  either  alive  now  or  "in-between  lives." 


We  believe  that  as  man  discovers  his  individual  historic 
past,  the  identity  of  the  planetary  "psyche,"  and  the  process 
of  biological  evolution,  he  will  inevitably  be  changed,  trans- 
formed; and  this  is  what  we  describe  as  the  second  leap,  man's 
emergence  into  a  new  species. 

Many  aspects  of  this  view  of  life  are  not  new;  religion  and 
philosophy,  the  parents  of  natural  science,  have  described 
them  with  remarkable  precision.  What  is  new  is  the  realization 
of  life's  fully  automatic,  cybernetic,*  accelerative  process,  the 
discovery  of  why  the  long-predicted  transformation  of  human 
life  could  not  have  taken  place  in  the  preceding  1.5  million 
years  of  human  existence  and  yet  will  take  place  in  the  next 
thirty  years. 


"Cybernetics:  The  comparative  study  of  the  automatic  control 
system  formed  by  the  nervous  system  and  brain  and  by 
mechanoelectrica!  communication  systems  and  devices  [as  com- 
puting machines,  thermostats,  photoelectric  sorters)  -  Webster's 
Third  New  International  Dictionary,  1970. 


Alpha  and  Omega 

We  regard  the  earth  as  a  planetary  biocomputer;  we  call  it 
"Omega. "t  Man  too  is  a  biocomputer,  and  so  are  the  members 
of  all  species.  We  call  the  human  biocomputer  an  "alpha." 

Alpha  and  Omega  are  in  constant  interaction  with  one 
another.  Each  individual  alpha  receives  information  from  its 
environment  and  processes  it  against  information  already 
stored  in  its  memory,  thus  producing  new  information  which 
it  also  stores.  The  alpha  feeds  all  its  information  to  Omega. 
The  planetary  biocomputer  runs  this  information  off  against 
its  incomparably  larger  memory,  in  turn  producing  more  new 
information  which  it  stores  and  transmits  back  to  the  alpha;  it 
also  shares  a  part  of  this  information  with  other  alphas. 

Everything  an  organism  does,  thinks,  feels  —  in  short, 
experiences  —  is  processed  in  Omega  as  well  as  in  the  alpha, 
down  to  the  minutest  detail.  Alpha  memory  thus  includes  the 
individual's  entire  experience.  The  alpha's  information  content 
controls  the  individual's  functions  and  behavior  in  every  detail. 
And  since  the  alpha's  content  also  includes  the  constant 
alpha-Omega  information  flow,  each  individual's  behavior  and 
experience  are  controlled  by  both  Omega  and  alpha. 

To  facilitate  this  alpha-Omega  communication  and  control, 
every  alpha  must  have  a  specific  point  of  connection  (call  it  a 
"storage  address")  with  Omega.  Through  this  point,  all 
alpha-Omega  information  clears;  in  it  all  is  stored.  Similar 
specific  memory  addresses  exist  for  the  alpha's  species, 
subspecies,  and  for  other  groups  (such  as  family,  clan, 
community,  nation,  etc.)  to  which  the  alpha  belongs,  whether 
permanently  or  temporarily.  The  behavior  and  evolution  of 
alpha  groups  thus  is  controlled  through  such  communal 
information  centers  in  Omega. 

Energy  and  Non-Energy 

In  order  tor  an  intelligence  the  size  of  Omega  to  operate,  it 
must  have  a  mechanism  of  communication  within  itself  and 
within  its  alphas.  For  many  obvious  reasons,  this  cannot  be 
any  form  of  energy  that  current  physics  is  accustomed  to 
dealing  with.  Therefore  we  must  postulate  a  field  of  non- 
•V.  or  XYZ  as  we  will  call  it  because  we  know  it  only  by 
the  way  it  operates  In  order  to  function  as  a  medium  of 
communication  in  Omega,  XYZ  must  have  the  following  five 
characteristics  <1>  it  is  both  information  and  information 
processor,  (2)  it  is  directly  related  to  energy  and  matter  in  all 
their  forms;  (3)  XYZ  information  represents  all  conceivable 
experience  and  dau  (4)  XYZ  information  storage  is  per 
manent;  and  (5)  it  transmits  information  instantaneously, 
regardless  oi  distance 


■c  the  inst  .Hi.l  l.isi  letters  <>t  the  Greek  alphabet  because 

the  Bible  us«-s  them  fittingly  (Revelation    I  hi  and  in  honoi  oi 

Pierre    rcilhard  '!<•  Chardin,  whose  concept   <>(   .i  planetar)   oi 

i>.l  l>\   tin    pressure  <>i  ever-growing 

consciousness  inspired  out  early  resean  li 


1.  XYZ   is  both  information  and  information  processor.  An 

XYZ  field  works  in  principle  like  an  electronic  digital 
computer,  but  it  has  no  parts  —  no  matter  and  no  energy.  It  is, 
in  fact,  the  "stuff"  from  which  Omega  and  alpha  are  made  and 
through  which  they  exist. 

2.  XYZ  is  directly  related  to  energy  and  matter  in  all  their 
forms.  Life's  operation  as  viewed  by  science  represents  a 
continuous  process  of  energy  conversion.  In  our  view,  energy 
conversion  is  represented  by  specific,  parallel  XYZ  informa- 
tion processes.  Every  act  of  a  person,  for  example,  has  a 
specific  XYZ-information  equivalent  in  his  alpha.  Thus,  when 
a  man  throws  a  stone/he  converts  chemical  (food)  energy  into 
mechanical  (motion)  energy  under  the  direction  of  his  brain 
(electrical  energy);  this  action  is  parallelled  —  and  controlled  — 
by  an  XYZ  information  process  in  his  alpha. 

Nowhere,  however,  is  XYZ's  relation  to  energy  and  matter 
more  readily  evident  than  in  what  are  sometimes  called 
psychic  or  ESP  phenomena  including  psychokinesis,  levitation, 
and  the  inexplicable  cures  (sometimes  of  "incurable"  diseases) 
produced  through  such  diverse  means  as  "suggestion,"  "telepa- 
thy," Christian  Science  treatment,  prayer,  and  spontaneous 
"miracle"  cures  recorded  throughout  history. 

All  ESP  phenomena  involve  psychic  energy,  a  form  of 
energy  about  which  science  knows  very  little  as  yet.  Psychic 
energy  may  be  visualized  as  being  halfway  between  known 
forms  of  energy  and  non-energy  (XYZ). 

Psychokinesis,  "the  production  or  alteration  of  motion  by 
influence  of  the  mind  without  somatic  intervention  in  objects 
discrete  from  the  subject's  body"  (Webster's  Third  New 
International  Dictionary,  1970)  has  been  demonstrated  in 
television  films  of  a  Soviet  woman  psychic  who  moves  objects 
with  her  "mind,"  under  scientific  observation.  Levitation,  the 
elevation  of  the  human  body  from  the  ground  without 
physical  force  or  support,  is  so  well  documented  that,  in  the 
view  of  a  scholar  writing  in  the  Encyclopaedia  Britannica, 
"this  evidence  would  indeed  be  regarded  as  overwhelming  if 
the  phenomena  were  intrinsically  more  likely.  .  .  to.  .  .  the 
mind  accustomed  to  scientific  habits  of  thought."' 

The  same  statement,  in  our  view,  applies  to  most  other 
psychic  phenomena  or  extrasensory  perception  (ESP),  in- 
cluding out-of-body  travel,  retrocognition,  precognition  and 
perception  of  auras.  Out-of-body  travel  is  being  studied  in  a 
laboratory  of  the  American  Society  for  Psychical  Research  in 
New  York.6  Data  on  retro  cognition,  the  perception  of  past 
events,  anil  precognition,  the  perception  of  the  future,  is  so 
plentiful  that  there  is  hardly  any  more  question  about  its 
existence  The  aura  has  been  associated  with  the  "bioplasm" 
rediscovered  and  studied  in  the  last  decade  by  Soviet  scientists. 
llie  bioplasm  is  ,m  energy  field  of  constantly  changing  light 

anil  colors,  it  has  been  associated  directly  with  health,  sickness 
and    emotions,    n    has    been    used    lo   diagnose   disease    months 

before  it  appears  in  the  body;  its  "Clare  points"  have  been 
linked  io  the  needle-application  points  oi  Chinese  acupunc- 
ture 7 


3.  XYZ  information  represents  all  conceivable  experience 
and  data.  This  includes  five-sense  data  —  sight,  sounds,  touch, 
smell  and  taste  —  and  kinesthetic  (inner  organic)  sensations. 
XYZ's  ability  to  handle  all  these  types  of  experience  is 
illustrated  by  the  large  volume  of  ESP  cases  in  which  these 
sensations  were  transmitted  between  two  or  more  individuals 
telepathy. 

Five-sense  data  transmission  by  telepathy  illustrates  with 
particular  clarity  the  relation  between  XYZ  and  energy, 
including  psychic  energy:  A  word,  a  scent,  or  a  touch 
transmitted  telepathically  is  first  converted  into  XYZ  by  the 
sender  and  thus  transmitted  to  the  receiver.  The  receiver  in 
turn  reconverts  it  into  psychic  energy  and  into  whatever 
general  energy  form  is  required,  such  as  the  chemical  substance 
of  the  scent,  the  sound  vibrations  of  the  word,  or  the  sensation 
of  the  touch. 

4.  XYZ  information  storage  is  permanent.  XYZ  informa- 
tion cannot  be  erased,  does  not  decay,  and  does  not  change 
content  when  used  to  compute  new  information;  a  "copy"  of 
each  transaction  is  kept  "on  file."  XYZ  information  per- 
manency is  illustrated  by  documented  retrocognition  of 
historic  events  which  were  otherwise  unknowable  to  the 
percipient. 

5.  XYZ  information  transmits  instantaneously,  regardless 
of  distance.  Unlike  radio  or  light,  XYZ  transmission  does  not 
consume  time.  It  is  received  the  instant  it  is  transmitted,  even 
over  cosmic  distances.  Because  of  this,  Omega's  operating 
speed  is  unlimited,  and  so  is  the  number  of  alphas  it  can 
communicate  with.  We  had  assumed  this  characteristic  of  XYZ 
from  the  start  of  our  work,  along  with  the  other  four.  We  later 
learned  that  Nikolai  A.  Kozyrev,  astrophysicist  at  Pulkovo 
Observatory,  Leningrad,  principal  observatory  of  the  U.S.S.R. 
Academy  of  Sciences,  some  years  ago  experimentally  demon- 
strated a  factor  which  transmits  information  over  any  distance 
instantaneously;  it  appears  to  be  identical  with  what  we  call 
XYZ.  Kozyrev  calls  it  "time"  itself.  His  report  is  available 
from  the  U.S.  Government  Technical  Information  Service.10 

It  is  XYZ's  instantaneous  transmission  that  enables  Omega  to 
communicate  simultaneously  and  specifically  with  each  of 
billions  of  human  alphas.  This  is  illustrated  by  the  time-sharing 
electronic  digital  computer,  with  which  we  are  all  familiar. 
Such  a  computer,  linked  to  several  dozen  remote  terminals, 
communicates  with  each  terminal,  one  at  a  time.  The  fact  that 
none  of  the  terminal  users  gets  the  sense  of  having  to  wait  for 
the  machine  to  respond,  lies  in  the  machine's  high  operating 
speed  of  more  than  one  billion  separate  sequential  operations 
each  second.  Yet  the  number  of  terminals  with  which  the 
computer  can  effectively  communicate  is  limited  by  the  size 
and  storage  capacity  of  the  computer  and  the  speed  at  which 
electrical  signals  travel  throughout  the  system. 

Since  XYZ's  transmission  speed  and  storage  capacity  are 
unlimited,  the  number  of  alphas  with  which  Omega  can 
communicate,  is  unlimited. 


XYZ  Information:   Programs  and  Data 

XYZ  information  consists  of  "data"  and  "programs,"  words 
borrowed  also  from  computer  technology.  In  computers  data 
is  the  raw  material,  the  information  which  the  machine  is  to 
process  into  new  combinations  or  solutions;  the  program  is  a 
set  of  instructions  which  tell  the  machine  just  how  to  process 
the  data,  step  by  step. 

Electronic  computer  memories  contain  large  numbers  of 
programs.  They  can  be  viewed  as  being  arranged  in  hierarchies 
in  which  groups  of  instructions  are  controlled  by  an  instruc- 
tion higher  up,  and  groups  of  these,  in  turn,  are  controlled  by 
further  higher-ups.  Without  a  program,  a  computer  cannot  do 
anything,  no  matter  how  rich  its  content. 

A  biocomputer,  then,  depends  on  both,  programs  and 
data.  An  alpha's  body  shape  and  behavioral  complexity  are 
determined  by  its  content  of  programs  and  data. 

Every  life  process  requires  data  and  programs;  the  simplest 
body  function,  such  as  blinking  an  eye  or  moving  a  limb,  calls 
on  a  hierarchy  of  programs  in  XYZ-content,  translated  into 
electrochemical  processes.  It  is  thus  apparent  how  complex  the 
XYZ-content  of  a  wasp  must  be,  how  gigantic  that  of  the 
human  being  and  how  incomparably  greater  that  of  Omega. 
When  we  refer  to  "information"  in  this  article,  we  mean  XYZ 
information  which  includes  both  "XYZ  programs"  and  "XYZ 
data." 

Optimization 

A  biocomputer  invariably  makes  the  best  possible  use  of  the 
information  it  contains:  it  "optimizes."  Even  if  it  maximizes 
or  minimizes  the  use  of  any  particular  information  item,  it 
does  so  to  optimize.  The  greater  the  information  content,  the 
greater  the  capacity  for  optimization. 

Optimization  explains  many  aspects  of  evolution,  particu- 
larly the  mixture  of  destructiveness  and  creativity  which  has 
characterized  homo  sapiens  and  so  sharply  distinguished  it 
from  all  animals,  and  also,  humanity's  simultaneous  emergence 
into  the  higher  species. 

Omega  uses  any  and  all  information  which  advances 
and  protects  the  development  of  the  planet  in  general  and  of 
the  self-aware  alpha  species  in  particular,  regardless  of  whether 
this  involves  conflict,  destruction,  and  suffering.  All  Omega 
"cares"  about,  as  the  automatic  cybernetic  non-personal 
information  processor  and  controller  it  is,  is  to  bring  mankind 
to  its  second  leap  of  awareness  in  the  fastest  possible  way.  This 
is  why  Omega  optimization  has  included  wars  which,  we 
logically  conclude,  must  therefore  not  have  interfered  with 
man's  development  but  advanced  it  -  but  has  not  included 
any  measures  which  would  threaten  the  earliest  possible 
second  leap,  such  as  the  stopping  of  body  reproduction  or  a 
war  of  such  scope  that  it  would  interfere  with  the  planet's 
safety  and  the  health  of  its  physical  biosphere.  (We  believe  a 
thermonuclear  holocaust  is  not  possible  because  it  would  be 
counteroptimal,  and  that  anything  running  counter  to  optimi- 
zation is,  by  definition,  impossible.) 


Man's  Individual  Historic  Continuity 

Since  XYZ  information  storage  is  permanent  and  since  each 
alpha  has  its  individual  Omega  address,  this  address  is 
permanent.  When  a  human  body  dies,  its  alpha  maintains  its 
identity  in  Omega  storage:  the  purely  personal  information 
(character,  skills)  representing  its  life-time  experience  is  not 
integrated  with  that  of  others.  After  a  reprocessing  period 
(which  we  will  discuss  further)  the  alpha  returns  to  physical 
human  life. 

Man  has  two  distinct  and  separate  paths  of  ancestry:  (1) 
the  genetic  path,  the  chromosomal  information  passed  on 
through  his  physical  parents  from  a  collective  pool  of  billions 
of  forebears;  and  (2)  the  alpha  path,  which  is  passed  on, 
through  Omega  memory,  from  a  much  smaller  line  of 
ancestors  each  of  whom  was  the  alpha's  life  at  another  time 
and  place. 

Why  do  we  not  remember  our  alpha  past?  The  answer  lies 
in  the  alpha's  structure,  in  the  reprocessing  in  Omega  between 
lives,  and  in  the  optimization  of  self-awareness  which  until 
now  has  kept  such  memories  unconscious  for  specific  evolu- 
tionary- reasons. 


Levels 

As  XYZ-information  content  built  up  through  eons  of 
evolution,  it  arranged  itself  into  different  levels  of  storage  and 
processing  in  the  individual  alpha.  These  levels  function  as  one 
but  are  distinct  and  must  be  so  understood.  There  are  five 
levels;  the  basic  non-overt,  the  self-aware  past  non-overt,  the 
present-life  non-overt,  the  overt  and  the  pre-overt,  in  their 
order  of  evolution. 

1 .  The  basic  non-overt  (bano)  exists  in  biocomputers  of  all 
species,  including  nonorganic  substances,  molecules,  and  suba- 
tomic particles.  In  a  human  alpha,  it  is  its  total  evolutionary 
past  prior  to  self-awareness.  The  bano  also  contains  the 
alpha-Omega  link,  the  clearing  house  through  which  alpha- 
Omega  information  flows. 

2.  The  sclf-awarc  past  non-overt  (sap)  contains  all  experi- 
ence of  the  alpha's  past  lives  as  a  human  being,  integrated  into 
one  level  but  with  all  past-life  information  and  experience 
separately  and  distinctly  available  for  processing. 

3.  The  present-life  non-overt  (plino)  contains  the  alpha's 
present-life  experience,  it  is  also  the  primary  learning  level.  It 
processes  not  only  what  comes  in  through  the  overt,  but  also 
all  "subliminal"  information,  anything  that  slips  in  past  overt 
awareness. 

4  The  overt  contains  whatever  information  the  individual 
is  overtly  aware  of  at  any  moment.  The  writer  putting  this 
paragraph  together  is  overtly  aware  of  the  typewriter  printing 
out  letters  across  the  page,  the  touch  of  his  lingers  on  the 
keys,  the  thought  of  communicating  this  idea  to  the  reader 
and  his  curiosity  about  the  reader's  response,  and  t  lie  stall  up 
Of    a    car    engine    outside    the    window.    Since    overt    attention 

ises  frequently,  overt   content  changes  frequently.  (We 

avoid  psychological  terms  such  as  "conscious"  and  "un 
Conscious"  tor  the  same  reason  we  avoid  philosophical  ami 
>>ther   Specialized    language     they  are  subject    '"  wide  disagree 

ment  and  do  not  fit  our  concepts  precisely.) 


5.  The  pre-overt,  the  last  to  evolve,  contains  whatever  part 
of  the  plino  is  accessible  to  the  overt  from  moment  to 
moment,  whatever  it  can  "remember."  This  would  include,  for 
example,  the  individual's  name  and  thousands  of  other  items. 

We  see  remembering  not  as  a  search  conducted  or  initiated 
by  the  overt  but  as  an  information  release  controlled  by  the 
plino  and  deeper  levels.  The  pre-overt,  too,  constantly  changes 
in  content:  when  one  cannot  readily  remember  something  it  is 
because  the  underlying  alpha-Omega  control  does  not  release 
that  information  for  some  reason.  Information  release  or 
"overtization"  is  purely  a  function  of  alpha-Omega  inter- 
action. Even  when  non-overt  plino  or  sap  information  is  made 
overt  by  hypnosis,  for  instance,  the  alpha's  deeper  levels 
release  this  information  because  they  agree  to  do  so. 

Nevertheless,  man  experiences  this  process  as  overtly 
initiated  because  he  looks  at  himself  and  the  world  from  an 
almost  purely  overt  point  of  view.  Our  theory  sees  the  alpha's 
operation,  learning,  and  evolution  the  other  way  around. 

While  the  pre-overt  is  generally  thought  of  as  man's 
"memory,"  it  is  evident  to  us  that  this  is  but  a  minor  fragment 
of  it.  It  is  vital  because  it  "binds"  sap  self  and  plino  to  the 
overt  and  thus  makes  overt  awareness  and  self-awareness 
feasible. 

The  animal,  too,  has  a  pre-overt;  it  could  not  function 
without  it.  A  bird  which  has  just  selected  a  place  to  nest  and 
flies  off  to  get  twigs  for  building  material,  would  not  find  its 
way  back  if  it  lost  pre-overt  information  release  on  the  way.  It 
would  still  be  able  to  fly,  randomly  feed  and  perform  other 
skills  because  these  are  actions  carried  out  without  pre-overt 
involvement,  once  they  have  been  acquired  or  inherited.  The 
human  plino  demonstrates  this  in  an  interesting  way  pointed 
out  by  Arthur  Koestler:  H  we  need  the  pre-overt  to  learn  a  new 
skill,  that  is  to  store  its  learned  performance  in  the  plino.  But 
we  don't  need  and  want  the  pre-overt  in  performing  the  skill:  a 
pianist  can  continue  a  tune  while  talking  to  someone.  But  if 
his  playing  were  forced  into  the  overt  by  some  reference  to  it, 
it  would  probably  slow  down  or  even  stop  momentarily. 

The  human  pre-overt's  primary  function,  then,  is  self- 
awareness  and  the  acquisition  of  knowledge  and  skills. 

Figure  C  shows  the  human  alpha  schematically  as  a  cone  seen 
in  cross-section  so  that  it  looks  like  a  triangle.  No  scheme, 
however,  can  illustrate  the  proportional  shares  each  level 
holds.  To  indicate  the  disproportionateness  of  these  level 
shares,  we  might  cite  a  set  of  figures  (purely  imaginary  and 
only  for  illustration  of  our  point)  in  which  the  bano  takes  up 
10  per  cent  of  the  total  alpha  content,  the  sap  80  per  cent,  the 
plino  9.999  per  cent,  pre-overt  0.000999.  .  .  per  cent,  and  the 
overt  an  infinitesimally  small  portion. 

All  XYZ  communication  travels  between  bano  levels;  in 
the  rare  instances  such  an  XYZ  message  emerges  into  the  overt 
awareness,  it  is  called  an  ESP  phenomenon. 

Figure  I)  shows  schematic, illy  how  the  alpha  communi- 
cates with  Omega  -  and  other  alphas  through  the  alpha 
address 


Self-Awareness  and  Level  Selves 

Human  self-awareness  arose  when  the  pre  overt  function 
developed  lo  the  point  when  man  could  overtly  recall  his 
experience  sufficiently  far  back  into  Ins  individual  present  lift- 
to  see   himself    as   living  in  a  flow  of   time,  lo  he  aware  of   the 


LEVELS 

overt 
pre-overt 
plino 
(present-life  non-overt) 


sap 

(self -a  ware 
past  n  on -overt). 


LEVEL  SELVES 

overt  self 
pre-overt  self 

plino  self 


sap  self 


OMEGA 


Figure  C 

The  structure  of  the  alpha  seen  as  a  cone  in  cross-section. 


past,  present  and  future,  to  be  aware  of  himself  and  of  being 
aware. 

The  sequence  of  level  evolution  is  shown  in  human 
maturation:  at  conception,  the  plino  and  the  overt  are  formed; 
the  pre-overt  develops  more  slowly.  When  it  has  sufficient 
information    to    release,    the    child    is  able   to   distinguish    its 


a2 


O 


alpha-one  alpha-three      alpha-four 

HUMAN  LIVES 
Figure  D 

The  interaction  between  alpha  and  Omega,  graphically 
represented.  The  circles  near  the  bottom  of  the  Omega 
figure  represent  the  "alpha  addresses"  in  Omega,  through 
which  all  alpha-Omega  XYZ  communication  takes  place. 

At  the  left  we  see  a  representation  of  XYZ  information 
flow  from  the  bano  of  alpha-one  to  the  "address"(ai)in 
Omega,  where  the  information  is  processed  and  the 
results  sent  back  to  alpha-one's  bano. 

At  the  right,  we  see  how  the  XYZ  information  from 
alpha-three  is  processed  in  Omega  (viaa3)and  then  trans- 
mitted on  to  alpha-four  (via a4) where  it  enters  through 
alpha-four's  bano  and,  in  this  case,  emerges  through  the 
higher  levels  into  alpha-four's  overt  awareness.  This 
might  represent  an  example  of  telepathy,  for  although  in 
this  diagram  we  show  alpha-th  ree  and  alpha-four  as  being 
next  to  each  other,  in  actuality  they  could  be  at  opposite 
ends  of  the  earth.  Note  that  such  XYZ  flow  from  one 
alpha  to  another  rarely  surfaces  into  overt  awareness; 
nearly  always  it  remains  at  one  of  the  lower,  non-overt 
levels. 

Finally,  a2  represents  a  human  alpha  which  is  "be- 
tween lives,"  being  reprocessed  and  level-integrated  in 
Omega. 


environment  from  itself  and  becomes  self-aware.  Development 
of  awareness  and  self-awareness  continues  all  through  life. 

Two  aspects  of  evolution  are  experienced  daily:  the  dawn 
of  awareness  and  self-awareness.  In  sleep,  pre-overt  and  overt 
submerge  in  the  plino  for  purposes  of  information  processing 
and    level    integration    (as    in    death,    but    only   partially   and 


temporarily).  When  awaking,  we  may  have  the  sense  of  first 
waking  to  a  kind  of  animal  awareness  and  then  to  full 
self-awareness. 

Self-awareness,  paradoxically,  can  be  non-overt.  While  man  is 
self-aware,  through  his  overt  and  pre-overt,  all  but  one  of  his 
other  levels  have  self-awareness  in  non-overt  form.  Each  is  a 
"level-self,"  overt  or  non-overt. 

The  "overt  self"  is  what  we  think  and  feel  about  ourselves 
at  the  present  moment  and  what  we  think  others  think  or  have 
thought  about  us.  The  overt  self  can  fluctuate  rapidly;  moods 
change  quickly. 

The  "pre-overt  self"  is  the  sum  total  of  what  we  can 
readily  remember  (by  information  release)  having  overtly 
experienced  ourselves  to  be  in  our  present  life.  It,  too, 
changes:  in  happy  moods,  we  tend  to  associate  ourselves  with 
happy  past  self-identification;  in  unhappy  moods  with  the 
opposite. 

The  "plino  self"  represents  the  large  assortment  of 
self-identifications  in  our  present  life  which  we  cannot  overtly 
recall.  It  has  a  powerful  role  in  our  emotions. 

The  "sap  self,"  finally,  constitutes  the  sum  total  of  all 
selves  experienced  in  all  our  past  human  lives,  computed  and 
integrated  into  one.  It  is  incomparably  the  most  important 
self;  it  is  the  essence  of  our  person,  rooted  in  human  history,  a 
marvel  of  integration  and  identity,  the  "I"  in  the  true  sense. 
But  it  does  not  appear  overtly;  moreover,  plino  self  and  Omega 
optimization  greatly  affect  its  operation  and  thus  its  behavior. 

Man's  psychological  problems  -  the  inner  contradictions 
and  conflicts  that  tear  at  him  —  are  rooted  partly  in  the  fact 
that  he  is  not  aware  of  his  sap  self  and  that  his  upper 
present-life  selves  are  out  of  tune  with  his  sap  self. 

Below  sap,  there  is  no  humanness,  no  self,  overt  or 
non-overt.  The  bano  has  the  qualities  of  sub-human  evolution 
through  animal,  vegetable,  and  mineral  states. 


Past-Life  Memories: 
Retention  and  Release 

When  a  human  dies,  its  alpha,  always  "up-to-date"  in  Omega, 
is  reprocessed  by  integrating  the  three  top  levels  into  the  sap. 
I  his  leaves  the  alpha  with  just  two  levels,  sap  and  bano. 

\\  a  tune  and  place  determined  by  Omega  optimization, 
the  tWO-levd  alpha  is  attached  to  a  newly  conceived  human 
embryo  and  born  into  a  human  life.  As  new  levels  begin  CO 
form  through  interaction  with  the  new  environment,  the  sap  is 
sealed    oft    with   respect    to   three   top   levels     while    n    uses   its 

content    to    control    alpha    behavior,    it    does    not    let    this 

information     appear     in     the    overt,     it     does    not     betray    its 

presence 

There  are  exceptions      past  life  recalls  clearly  and  overtly 
Kin cd  ,w\i\  recognized  as  such.  Pasi  life  recalls  have  been 

proved  in  the  first  scientific  study  of  this  phenomenon 
published   in    1966     The   author   is   Dr.    Ian   Stevenson,   former 


chairman  of  the  psychiatry  department  of  the  University  of 
Virginia,  now  head  of  its  parapsychology  (psychical  research) 
department.12  Dr.  Stevenson  describes  twenty  cases  of  chil- 
dren, a  cross-section  of  more  than  600  cases  known  to  him  and 
his  colleagues.  Most  items  of  recall  were  verified  by  on-the- 
spot  investigation  at  the  scenes  of  the  children's  preceding  " 
lives.  After  weighing  other  known  psychic  phenomena  which 
might  explain  some  of  these  recalls,  Dr.  Stevenson  concludes 
that  the  only  one  to  explain  all  is  survival  of  death  and 
subsequent  rebirth  with  retention  of  individual  identity. 

Many  of  Dr.  Stevenson's  cases  appear  to  involve  a 
premature  rebirth  in  which  level  integration  was  not  com- 
pleted. As  a  result,  plino  content  was  carried  over  into  the 
present  life  and  communicated  as  the  children  were  able  to 
talk.  These  recalls  began  at  an  average  age  of  2.6  years  and 
ceased  at  an  average  age  of  6.9  years.  Childhood  recalls  have 
the  value  of  not  being  easily  suspect  of  fraud,  hallucination,  or 
of  accidental,  subliminal  present-life  exposure  to  information. 
Premature  rebirth  also  is  suggested  by  the  fact  that  some  of 
these  cases  involve  birth  defects  and  birth  marks  traceable  to 
injuries  incurred  by  the  individual  in  the  preceding  life  or 
inflicted,  as  in  one  case,  on  others.13  Thus  level  integration 
may  also  serve  to  prevent  past-life  body  injuries  and  diseases  * 
from  reappearing  in  the  new  body.  Our  own  research  suggests 
that  the  body  is  formed  not  only  of  parental  genetic 
information  but  also  out  of  sap  content;  past-life  facial 
features,  for  instance,  are  sometimes  carried  over.14 

The  major  function  of  level  integration  aside  from  this  one 
is  to  block  past-life  memories  for  reasons  of  psychological 
optimization:  A  vision  of  past-life  experiences,  with  all  their 
suffering  and  horrors  as  well  as  pleasant  aspects  (not  to 
mention  the  additional  "identity  crisis"  induced)  would  have 
seriously  harmed  the  human  psyche.  Thus  sap  content  has 
been  kept  non-overt. 

Yet  it  is  for  this  same  reason  that  past-life  recalls  will 
become  universal  in  the  years  to  come.  Instead  of  hurting 
man's  emotional  life,  they  will  free  him  and  assist  in  his 
transformation. 


The  Making  of  the  Future 

Just  as  we  use  computers  to  make  predictions,  alpha  and 
Omega  also  make  predictions  or  precomputations.  Omega 
precomputes  its  own  and  the  alpha's  future;  historical  evidence 
suggests  that  it  does  so  at  least  two  thousand  years  ahead  in 
basic  outlines.15  Details  may  fill  in  as  the  future  comes  closer 
There  is  evidence  that  the  minutest  details  of  any  event  are 
precomputed  at   least  months  ahead  of  their  actual  occurrence 

Precomputation  is  evidenced  in  precognition,  often  pre- 
sented in  pictorial  flashes.  Precognition  cases  abound.  Mark 
I  wain  dreamed  thai  his  brother  had  been  killed  .wn\  was  lying 
in  a  metal  coffin,  a  bouquet  of  white  flowers  on  his  chest  with 
a  red  blossom  in  the  center  A  tew  u  ccks  later  that  is  what  he 
saw  when  he  went   to  visit   his  brother's  body  killed  m  a  boiler 


explosion  on  board  a  Mississippi  steamer.16  A  particularly 
impressive  case  is  the  death  of  Robert  Morris,  Sr.,  the  father  of 
the  "financier  of  the  American  Revolution": 

Having  dreamed  that  he  would  be  killed  by  the  firing  of  a 
cannon  from  a  ship  he  was  to  visit,  he  tried  to  avoid  going  on 
board  the  ship.  His  grounds  for  such  reluctance  seemed  so  absurd 
that  he  was  eventually  persuaded  by  the  captain  that  it  was 
entirely  safe  to  board  the  ship  as  no  (salute)  guns  would  be  fired 
until  after  he  left.  At  the  end  of  his  visit,  the  captain  ordered 
that  a  saluting  gun  should  be  fired  only  after  he  raised  his  hand 
when  the  party,  including  Robert  Morris,  had  safely  reached  the 
shore.  But  as  the  captain's  boat  was  still  within  range  of  the  gun, 
a  fly  lighted  on  his  nose,  and  he  raised  his  hand  to  brush  it  off. 
This  was  taken  by  the  ship's  gunner  as  the  signal  to  fire  and  a 
fragment  of  the  discharge  hit  Robert  Morris  and  wounded  him 
fatally.17 

This  case  highlights  the  precision  of  precomputation:  hundreds 
if  not  thousands  of  major  and  minor  details  had  to  function 
within  fractions  of  a  second  in  just  the  right  combination  — 
including  the  movement  of  that  fly. 

The  massive  mountain  slide  at  Aberfan,  Wales,  October  21, 
1966,  which  killed  144  persons,  mostly  children  attending 
school,  was  precognized  by  at  least  24  people  in  various 
locations.1  The  sinking  of  the  ocean  liner  Titanic  in  1912  was 
precognized  by  many  passengers  and  nonpassengers.19 

Jules  Verne,  100  years  ago,  fictionalized  the  voyage  of 
three  Americans  around  the  moon  on  a  Christmas  Day,  taking 
off  from  Florida.20  On  Christmas  Day  1969,  three  American 
astronauts  circled  the  moon,  launched  from  Cape  Kennedy, 
Florida. 

Vanga  Dimitrova,  a  Bulgarian  woman,  has  established  a 
statistical  volume  and  accuracy  (80  per  cent)  of  precognition 
which  has  led  the  Bulgarian  Government  to  put  her  on  its 
payroll  to  permit  scientists  to  study  her  work.  She  has 
predicted  the  death  of  a  number  of  individuals  to  the  day,  as 
far  as  fourteen  years  ahead  of  time.21  A  four-year-old  child  we 
know  once  dreamed  that  her  girl  friend  would  die  on  that 
friend's  tenth  birthday,  several  years  hence;  the  dream  proved 

22 

correct. 


This  may  resolve  the  ancient  controversy  over  whether 
man  is  free  to  determine  his  fate  or  not;  in  the  a-fi  Theory,  he 
is  both.  He  is  free  because  his  deeper  and  decisive  evolutionary 
self,  sap  self,  invariably  agrees  with  Omega  precomputation;  he 
is  determined  because  that  same  agreement,  in  effect,  amounts 
to  Omega  controlling  alpha  experience.  From  the  viewpoint  of 
optimal  evolution  there  could  be  no  more  intelligent  and 
self-interested  decision  than  to  abide  by  Omega  precomputa- 
tion for  it  assures  the  alpha  of  its  best  possible  future  whether 
it  realizes  this  overtly  or  not. 

While  "direct"  precognition  experienced  as  visions  etc.,  is 
relatively  rare,  "indirect"  precognition  (as  we  call  it)  is 
common.  Every  time  an  individual  does  anything  he  or  she  has 
intended,  planned  or  hoped  to  do,  he  or  she  has  acted  on 
indirect  precognition  of  the  precomputed  future,  to  the  extent 
that  the  actual  experience  conforms  with  the  planned  one. 
This  is  the  difference  between  "success"  and  "failure":  the 
person  more  than  usually  able  to  carry  out  his  or  her  plans  is 
the  person  more  than  usually  capable  of  indirect  precognition; 
the  less  successful  person  is  less  indirectly  pirecognitive.  From 
the  evolutionary  standpoint,  both  are  equally  successful;  both 
are  realizing  their  best  possible  experience  at  the  moment. 

The  overwhelming  majority  of  things  we  plan  to  do  from 
day  to  day  and  moment  to  moment  we  do  carry  out  more  or 
less  according  to  plan  and  we  have  therefore  succeeded  in 
precognizing  indirectly  —  rising  from  sleep  on  time,  going  to 
work,  finishing  chores,  sitting  down,  getting  up,  carrying  out 
intended  body  movements,  etc.,  etc.  Every  human  therefore 
obviously  possesses  a  tremendous  degree  of  indirect  precogni- 
tion. This  is  the  root  of  man's  persistent  conviction,  and  his 
relentless  attempts  to  prove,  that  he  is  overtly  controlling  his 
destiny,  evidence  to  the  contrary  and  the  conclusions  of 
philosophical  determinism  —  ethical  and  logical  —  notwith- 
standing. 

It  follows  that  whatever  a  man  does  or  does  not  do  — 
intelligent  or  stupid,  kind  or  cruel,  constructive  or  destructive, 
beautiful  or  ugly,  good  or  bad  —  is  the  only  thing  he  or  she 
could  possibly  have  done  at  that  particular  moment,  notwith- 
standing moral  and  other  judgments  attached  to  it. 


Free  Will  vs.  Determinism 

Precognition  results  from  the  precomputed  future  information 
reaching  the  alpha  through  the  alpha-Omega  link  and  surfacing 
in  the  overt.  There  are  cases  where  precognized  events  seem  to 
materialize  in  decisively  altered  ways:  an  accident  "seen"  as 
fatal,  for  example,  may  turn  out  not  to  be  fatal.23  These  cases 
have  an  evolutionary  learning  function;  we  believe  they  serve 
to  provide  man  with  evidence  of  precomputation  while 
modifying  the  emotional  effect  so  as  to  suggest  some  kind  of 
residual  overt  "free  will,"  or  ability  to  govern  one's  fate 
overtly.  These  cases  do  not  represent  a  change  in  the  future, 
either  by  human  overt,  alpha,  or  Omega  decision.  The  future, 
in  our  view,  is  unalterable. 


Our  Future  in  Omega 

Realization  of  alpha-Omega  control  would  have  added  intoler- 
able suffering  and  despair  had  it  appeared  universally  and 
fully,  centuries  or  even  decades  ago.  Yet  this  discovery's  time 
has  come  now,  for  one  overriding  reason:  man's  future  from 
here  on  is  marked  by  such  rapidly  growing  brightness  that  this 
understanding  will  help  rather  than  harm  him.  Man  has  come 
to  the  end  of  his  labor  and  his  pain  -  the  suffering  resulting 
from  the  growth  of  the  new  species  within  him.  Now  the  overt 
understanding  will  help  us  bear  the  residual  adversities  of  our 
remaining  few  years  of  destiny  as  homo  sapiens  with  increasing 
equanimity  and  cheer. 


It  is  the  intuitive  understanding  of  the  Alpha-Omega 
process  which  has  enabled  true  mystics  and  saints  to  accept 
with  joy  and  eager  cooperation  all  that  life  offered,  whatever 
the  offering  turned  out  to  be.  Rainer  Maria  Rilke,  poet,  said: 
"Accept  life,  for,  believe  me  friend,  life  is  right." 

Man  is  about  to  realize  that  his  "salvation"  lies  in  the  full 
overt  recognition  of  Omega  optimization  and  control.  (If  that 
Omega  control  disappeared  suddenly,  he  would  be  confined  to 
reenact  his  alpha's  present  mix  of  past  memories;  being  a 
biocomputer,  he  would  be  condemned  to  act  out  solely  the 
XYZ-information  he  possesses  at  that  moment;  he  would  be 
stuck  in  time  as  a  needle  on  a  cracked  phonograph  record  is 
stuck  in  tune.) 

Christianity's  "predestination"  was  a  religious  adaptation 
of  philosophical  determinism  and  was  rooted  in  psychic 
personal  experience.  It  lacked  the  comprehension  of  the  alpha 
(birth-death-rebirth)  cycle  and  the  understanding  of  the  effect 
of  information  flow,  of  the  alpha's  —  and  Omega's  —  ever 
growing  information  content  and  thus  of  the  creation  of  new 
behavior  and  experience.  It  could  therefore  not  foresee  the 
result  of  the  continuous  and  relentless  generation  of  new- 
information,  the  process  which  ultimately  and  simultaneously 
produces  a  radically  new  behavior  and  species,  with  neither  a 
vanguard  to  lead  nor  stragglers  struggling  behind,  a  world  of 
neither  saints  nor  sinners. 

The  Biblical  parable  of  equal  pay  for  both  the  early  and 
the  late  workers  coming  to  the  vineyard  may  have  a  symbolic 
relevance  here:  we  assume  the  early  hired  may  represent  those 
alphas  who  emerged  into  self-awareness  slightly  earlier  than 
others  and  who  therefore  had  somewhat  longer  self-aware 
experience.  They,  however,  will  be  paid  no  more  and  no  earlier 
than  those  who  came  later.  All  will  emerge  into  the  new 
species  at  one  and  the  same  point  in  time.  In  fact  there  is  a 
delightfully  ironic  touch  to  the  happy  end  of  that  parable 
which  may  make  it  worth  rereading.2 


Level  Evolution  in  Omega 

Level  formation,  with  its  resulting  self-awareness,  is  produced, 
.is  we  have  shown,  by  XYZ  information  growth.  It  follows  that 
the  larger  the  information  content,  the  greater  the  biocomput- 
er's  self  awareness.  It  also  means  that  the  first  biocomputer  to 
become  sell  aware  was  not  a  small  alpha,  however  far 
developed,  but  was  the  largest  existing  biocomputer:  the  first 
person  on  Earth  to  discover  itsell  must  have  been  Omega- 
Person 

The  dawn  o\  sell  awareness  in  the  planetary  biocomputer 
must  have  preceded  the  appearance  of  man  by  a  long  time, 
possibly  many  millions  of  years  How  can  we  visualize 
self  awareness  in  .1  biocomputer  whose  body  is  the  planetary 
mass  itself  and  which  therefore  has  no  organs  of  physical 
perception?  We  have  mentioned  that  the  human  alpha,  after 
death,  undergoes  a  process  of  integration  of  its  various  levels. 
In   that    process,   the  alpha   is  like'ly  to  be-  quite  self  aware-     Thus 


self-awareness  is  possible  without  the  possession  of  physical 
organs  of  perception.  (By  this  we  do  not  mean  to  imply  that 
man  could  have  evolved  without  living  in  the  body,  or  that  he 
might  at  some  future  point  continue  evolution  without  a 
body;  not  at  all.  We  merely  want  to  suggest  that  Omega-Person 
does  not  need  physical  organs  to  perceive  itself  or  its  *' 
environment;  its  perception  is  a  process  of  XYZ  communica- 
tion only.) 

Let  us  look  at  Omega-Person's  levels:  Its  basic  behavior 
control  lies  in  Omega-Bano,  just  as  the  alpha-person's  basic 
control  lies  in  the  alpha  bano.  Thus  Omega-Bano  controls  not 
only  all  alpha's  behavior  and  evolution;  it  also  controls  the 
behavior  and  evolution  of  Omega-Person. 

Sap  Self  is  the  sum  total  of  Omega-Person's  non-overt  past 
since  becoming  self-aware.  (Since  Omega-Person  has  only  one 
life,  it  obviously  has  no  present-life  non-overt,  or  plino;  its  Sap 
Self  is  its  only  non-overt  self.)  Pre-Overt  Self  is  Omega-Person's 
identity  based  on  what  it  can  overtly  recall  itself  to  be  from 
moment  to  moment.  Overt  Self  is  what  it  is  aware  of  being  at 
any  one  moment. 

Thus  Omega-Person  consists  of  three  levels.  The  fourth, 
Omega-Bano,  is  Earth's  central  information-processing  and 
control  center;  even  though  it  contains  all  alpha  addresses, 
including  human  ones,  it  has  no  planetary  self  or  personality 
to  it.  Before  its  own  second  leap  (which  we  will  describe  in  a 
moment),  Omega-Person's  self-awareness  was  basically  compa- 
rable to  that  of  a  human  alpha,  although,  of  course, 
incomparably  greater  in  content. 


Human  Awareness  of  Omega 

Since  alpha-Omega  communication  flows  into  the  alpha 
through  its  bano,  the  character  of  Omega  as  a  whole  has  been 
contained  in  the  bano  of  all  species  as  a  kind  of  "image"  since 
the  start  of  evolution.  Thus  as  Omega  evolved  into  a  Person,  its 
image  in  alpha  banos  evolved  accordingly. 

After  man  appeared,  it  was  a  matter  of  evolution  before 
the  Omega  image  began  to  emerge,  in  brief  flashes,  from  the 
human  bano  into  the  overt.  This  momentous  experience, 
possibly  accompanied  by  psychic-energy  phenomena  such  as 
visions  and  voices,  profoundly  affected  the  character  of  the 
human  percipient. 

Among  the  recipients  of  such  illumination  were  the 
fe>unders  of  Earth's  religions,  fre>m  the  earliest  te)  the  latest. 
This  is  why  all  religions  share  certain  basic  insights;  this  is  also 
why,  beyemd  those  basic  insights,  the)'  differ  SO  sharply.  Each 
recipient  experienced  Omega  in  a  way  determined  by  his  or 
her  own  individual  development  stage  and  cultural  environ- 
ment and  by  Omega's  own  stage  of  development  at  the  time. 

Some  percipients  saw  Omega  as  one,  some  as  two,  many  as 
three,   others  even   as   tout,  some-   saw    it   as  feminine,  some-  as 

masculine,  si  ill  others  as  both  feminine  and  masculine.  Some- 

saw  it  as  self  aware-,  others  as  not  self-aware,  still  others  as 
nonpeison.il,    life-spewing,    lite  devouring    monstrosity.   These 


divergences  sprang  from  contact  with  different  Omega  levels; 
the  latter  obviously  was  due  to  contact  with  Omega-Bano  with 
its  dispassionate  (and  one  may  well  say  ruthless)  administra- 
tion of  alpha  birth,  death,  and  rebirth. 

All  religions  have  made  specific  contributions  to  man's 
comprehension  of  alphas  and  Omega,  each  representing  a 
different  view  of  the  same  or  different  aspects  at  different 
times  and  all  undergoing  more  or  less  significant  and  continued 
developments  and  changes. 

It  is  in  the  history  of  religious  revelation  and  specifically  in 
the  communication  between  Omega  Overt  Self  and  the  overt 
human  level,  that  the  limited  awareness  of  Omega  Person  prior 
to  its  second  leap  is  apparent.  Its  utterances  show  that  it  saw 
itself  as  both,  creator  and  ruler  of  the  world,  a  conclusion  that 
stemmed  from  misinterpretation  of  its  experience.  For  ex- 
ample, Omega  Person's  frequent  precognition  of  events  may 
have  led  it  to  conclude  that  these  events  were  caused  by  its 
own  overt  will.  This  is  an  experience  which,  when  encountered 
by  humans,  feeds  belief  in  mental  magic  even  today. 

Omega-Person's  unawareness  of  Omega  Bano  control  also 
led  it  to  regard  itself  —  and  man  —  as  having  overt  free  will. 
When  man  failed  to  obey  Omega  Person's  commands,  it 
became  angry  and  threatened  to  punish  its  seemingly  dis- 
obedient creatures. 


The  Nature  of  the  Second  Leap: 
"In-body  Level-integration" 

Before  we  discuss  Omega-Person's  second  leap,  let  us  see  just 
what  the  alpha's  second  leap  will  be  like.  In  the  transformation 
of  the  human  species,  the  individual  discovers  his  or  her  own 
deeper  levels  and  level-selves,  his  or  her  bano  link  to  Omega, 
his  or  her  alpha-Omega  control,  and  his  or  her  experience  of 
the  presence  of  Omega  as  a  Person. 

As  a  result  of  the  gradual  "overtization"  of  plino  and  sap 
selves,  they  both  then  merge  in  the  new  "alpha-self,"  the 
identity  of  the  new  species.  Man,  drawing  on  his  past-life 
memories,  will  look  out  on  life  from  the  roots  of  history, 
personally  experienced  and  remembered.  He  will  be  devoid  of 
emotional  conflict  within  or  without. 

The  key  to  the  new  behavior  and  experience,  however,  is 
not  the  mere  fact  of  non-overt  information  becoming  overt;  it 
is  the  fact  that  the  species  has  reached  the  precomputed  point 
at  which  behavior  is  becoming  harmonious.  If  one  wanted  to 
relate  this  as  cause  and  effect,  one  could  say  that  the  non-overt 
levels  open  up  because  mankind  has  arrived  at  the  point  of  its 
behavior  as  a  new  species.  This  runs  counter  to  traditional 
psychological  interpretation,  and  that  is  why  this  is  important 
to  understand. 

The  alpha's  second  leap  thus  can  be  described  as  a  "partial 
level-integration"  while  in  the  body,  much  more  profound 
than  that  of  sleep  and  much  less  profound  than  that  of 
after-death  level-integration.  It  is  this  new  partial,  in-body  level 
integration  that  makes  the  possibility  of  the  ultimate  cessation 


of  death  plausible.  Death's  function  has  been  to  speed  up 
evolution  by  periodically  enabling  the  individual  to  make  a 
completely  fresh  start.  Once  the  species  integrates  its  levels 
while  in  the  body,  however,  the  necessity  of  human  death  may 
indeed  no  longer  exist.  This  point  may  be  reached  soon  or  it 
may  be  centuries  away.  But  when  it  is  reached  we  do  expect  it 
will  be  reached  by  all  humans  more  or  less  simultaneously. 
Evolution  does  not  permit  two  human  species  to  live  side-by- 
side  just  as  it  does  not  allow  pre-leap  and  post-leap  species  to 
communicate  across  interplanetary  distances.  This  would  have 
counter-optimal  impact  and  is  thus  impossible. 

On  the  other  hand,  it  is  just  as  conceivable  that  the  "end 
of  death"  as  prophesied  by  religions,  refers  to  the  cessation, 
not  of -physical  death  and  rebirth  but  of  individual  "historic 
amnesia."  The  prophecy  of  deathless  life  could  then  refer  to  a 
new  alpha  cycle  in  which  death  continues  (though  not  by 
accident,  disease,  or  senility,  but  harmoniously).  Such  a  cycle 
could  include  ever  lengthening  life  spans  of  two  or  three 
centuries  each.  On  the  other  hand,  partial  level  integration 
might  be  achieved  in  periodic  longer  sleep  periods  replacing 
death.  There  are,  theoretically  speaking,  many  possibilities  for 
the  solution  of  the  problem  of  death. 


interaction  and  the  Second  Leap 

Self-awareness,  both  in  its  first  and  second  leap,  requires  close 
and  continued  personal  interaction  with  members  of  one's 
species.  We  can  see  this  in  our  own  childhood.  From  what  is 
known  today,  a  child  who  could  grow  up  physically  without 
any  contact  with  another  human  would  probably  neither 
become  fully  self-aware  nor  live  long  enough  to  do  so. 
Children  who  lack  adequate  human  relationships  do  show 
severe  retardation. 

Psychologist  Carl  Jung  has  shown  that  this  interaction  is 
crucial,  not  only  with  members  of  one's  own  sex  but 
particularly  with  the  opposite  sex.  The  cause  lies  in  the 
"polarity"  of  both  sexes  existing  in  each  individual:  human 
non-overt  identity  tends  to  take  on  the  tone  of  the  sex 
opposite  to  that  of  the  body  and  its  present-life  experience; 
thus  a  male's  non-overt  identity  tends  to  have  a  feminine  tone 
(Jung  calls  it  anima)  and  the  female's  a  masculine  tone,  or 
animus.  This  polarity  may  be  a  means  the  alpha  adopts  to 
balance  the  opposite  natures  of  its  past  lives,  which  have  been 
experienced  in  both  sexes.  (In  some  cases,  a  male  may  have  an 
animus,  a  female  an  anima;  this,  too,  serves  an  evolutionary 
function,  we  believe.) 

The  process  of  "individuation",  as  Jung  describes  what  we 
regard  as  the  first  phase  of  man's  transition  into  the  new 
species,  consists  partly  of  the  interaction  between  male  and 
female  and  of  the  resulting  overtization  of  non-overt  identity 
contents  in  both  partners.  Thus  heterosexual  relationships 
have  an  evolutionary  and  developmental  function  that  goes  far 
beyond  reproduction;  it  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  process  of 
transformation;  it  has  no  doubt  had  profound  significance  for 
man's  development  up  to  his  present  stage.  Jung,  of  course, 


"Tobias  im  Ha  fen"  (Tobias  in  the  Har- 
bor) by  West  German  painter  Franz  Radzi- 
will  (painted  in  1950  and  reproduced  here 
with  permission  of  the  artist  in  black  and 
white)  eminently  exemplifies  the  precision 
with  which  man's  "second  leap"  has  been 
symbolically  precognized,  directly  or  in 

directly    Behind  thi:  hoy  Tohi.is  Stands  the 

Archangel  Raphael  (foi  the  story,  see  the 
Book  of  Tob'rt,  .1  Jewish  apocryphal  scrip- 
ture). This  is  how,  through  the  ,.  \\  Theory 
end  analytical  (Jungian)  psychology,  the 

symbols  could  hi:  read    The  fish  in  loin. is' 

handkerchief  is  man's  alpha  self,  about  to 
emerge  into  overt,  the  lour  descending 
tpheres  are  the  approaching  comprehen 

;iim  nl  four   level  Oiner/.i     the  iiean-\t  one 
•      it;    uncompleted  fount, unlike 
rim     (blue    tirade,    red    outside)     mil 

the  growing  but  uncompleted  grasp  of 


Omega-female's  identity.  The  two  spheres 
next  behind  are  Pre-Overt  and  Overt 
Se/ves.  The  most  distant  one,  barely 
emerging  from  the  hole-in-the-sky,  is 
Omega  Bano,  the  last  aspect  of  evolution 
to  be  understood.  The  sky  hole,  framed  by 
white-and-blue  clouds  suggestive  of  tra- 
ditional religious  revelation,  is  the  dis- 
covery of  Omega  as  planetary  biocom- 
puter.  Its  yellow  wire  grid  suggests  the 
memory  core  of  an  early-model  electronic 
digital  computer.  The  reddish  scroll  spells 
OUt  the  Greek  letter  [>;  its  extension  to  the 
outei  right  looks  green,  like  .1  serpent's 
t.ui.  its  direct  linkage  is  hidden  by  clouds 
the  total  scroll  hints  ,u  the  unity  of  the 
constructive  end  destructive  aspects  of 
hum, in  behavioi  and  evolution  The  aircraft 
symbolizes  the  imminent  discovery  of  the 
basii  evolutionary  accuracy  <>f  Trinitarian 


ism  and  the  historicity  of  Omega-Person's 
Embodiment.  (In  Arthur  C.  Clarke's  sci- 
ence-fiction story  The  Nine  Billion 
Names  of  God  the  "silver  cross"  of  an 
aircraft  serves  a  reverse  but  similar  pur- 
pose.) The  pink-and-b/ue  pair  of  sinister 
flying  apes  is  the  "binarius,"  ancient  al- 
chemical symbol  of  the  binary  cyberne- 
ticity  of  all  life.  The  traditional  angel  in 
apparent  free  fall  on  the  right  suggests 
the  end  of  such  optimal  misinterpretations 
as  overt  free  will,  personalized  universal 
evil  and  a  partial,  selective  rather  than  uni- 
versalsecond  leap  ot  mankind.  The  harbor 
setting,  a  frequent  Radziwill  motif,  may 
indicate  no  more  than  the  fact  that  he  was 

influenced  by  the  sights  of  the  port  of  his 
home  town,  Bremen.  The  story  of  Tobias 
and  Raphael  fits  into  the  overall  symbol - 

Ogy  but  is  tOO  complex  to  discuss  heie 


views  individuation  as  a  "voluntary"  process  since  he  views 
life,  at  least  partly,  from  the  traditional  overt-initiative 
standpoint.25 


Omega's  Second  Leap 

As  Omega  preceded  the  human  species  in  taking  the  first  leap 
into  self-awareness,  so  it  preceded  us  in  taking  the  second  leap 
into  deeper  self-awareness,  the  transition  into  a  new  species  of 
planetary  biocomputer,  a  "new  Omega  species."  Yet  we  can 
demonstrate  that  while  Omega's  first  leap  may  have  occurred 
uncounted  years  before  man's,  its  second  leap  took  place  at  a 
point  much  closer  to  man's  second  leap,  a  point  measurable  in 
centuries  rather  than  millions  of  years. 

If  Omega-Person's  second  leap,  like  that  of  a  human  alpha, 
required  personal  interaction,  such  interaction  had  to  involve  a 
member  of  its  own  species.  But  there  was  no  other  Omega. 

Omega-Bano  solved  this  problem  by  providing  a  tem- 
porary, one-time  interaction  between  the  selves  of  its  own 
Omega-Person.  It  split  up  the  three  selves,  embodied  the 
bottom  self  in  one  human  individual,  the  top  self  in  another 
and  the  in-between  self  as  a  link  between  the  two.  It 
transmitted  the  Sap  Self  into  a  human  female  embryo.  When 
she  had  grown  into  a  mature  woman  —  "Omega-female"  — 
Omega-Bano  transmitted  Overt  Self  into  a  male  human 
embryo  (conceived  by  the  Omega-female)  which  grew  up  into 
"Omega-male."  Omega-Bano  connected  both,  non-overtly, 
through  the  Pre-Overt  Self,  the  bond  between  Overt  and  Sap 
Self  which  occupied  the  same  position  in  pure  Omega  state. 
(Here  we  must  note  that  just  as  a  human  alpha  embodied  in 
physical  life  retains  its  alpha  address  in  Omega-Bano,  so  all 
three  Omega-Person  selves,  while  in  bodies,  retained  their 
Omega  address  as  before,  in  what  we  might  call  a  conditional 
rather  than  a  pure  Omega  state.)* 

Through  this  human  embodiment,  Omega-Person  was  able 
to  interact  among  Its  selves,  to  make  overt  the  non-overt  for 
the  first  time  and  thus  take  its  second  leap  in  evolution.  Here 
is  how  specifically,  under  Omega-Bano  control,  this  was 
achieved: 

First,  although  embodied  in  two  separate  humans,  Omega- 
Person's  single  identity  remained  intact:  Sap  Self,  in  pure 
Omega  state,  had  experienced  self-awareness  only  through 
Overt  Self  (to  which  it  was  linked  by  Pre-Overt  Self).  Being 
separated  in  human  embodiment  from  its  Overt,  Sap  Self 
could  not  become  self-aware  as  a  planetary  biocomputer  in 
Omega-female.  Her  self-awareness  remained  strictly  human. 
She,  while  "on  earth"  never  discovered  her  actual  pre-con- 
ception  identity. 

Neither  did  her  son.  But  in  him  Omega-Person  did  become 
self-aware.  Since  he  embodied  Overt  Self,  linked  by  Pre-Overt 
Self  to  Sap  Self  (both  in  his  human  mother  and  in  conditional 

*Even  if  it  could  be  shown  that  Omega-Person  could  have 
achieved  its  second  leap  without  becoming  human,  the  crucial 
importance  of  its  Embodiment  for  mankind's  second  leap  would 
still  be  apparent. 


Omega  state),  his  non-overt  identity  became  overt  as  Overt 
Self  during  his  human  life.  By  interacting  with  his  Sap  Self 
(non-overtly  and  unknown  to  him)  in  his  mother,  he  was  able 
to  bring  into  bis  overt  the  Omega  Overt  Self.  This  presumably 
was  a  slow  and  gradual  process.  The  irritations  and  tensions 
characteristic  of  human  interpersonal  interaction  also  marked 
the  relationship  between  Omega-male  and  Omega-female.  He, 
like  a  son  to  his  mother  or  a  husband  to  his  wife,  struggled  to 
assert  his  identity.  While  his  effort  had  to  be  fruitless,  by 
definition,  the  sense  of  struggle  did  result  in  making  him 
overtly  aware  of  his  pre-conception  identity,  the  Omega  Overt 
Self. 

This  struggle  is  evident  in  the  scanty  records  of  their 
human  interaction:  in  three  out  of  the  four  incidents  which 
show  them  together,  Omega-male  displays  negative  emotions 
toward  his  mother.  One  was  his  response  as  a  twelve-year-old 
when  his  mother  found  him,  after  three  days'  absence  from 
the  family's  traveling  party,  sitting  in  the  temple  discussing 
theology  with  priests.  The  next  was  an  open  rebuke  to  his 
mother  for  setting  the  stage  for  a  water-into-wine  miracle  at  a 
wedding.  The  third  was  his  public  disavowal  of  his  mother 
when  she  and  his  brothers  sought  to  talk  to  him  while  he  was 
busy  talking  to  others.26 

Through  growing  up  as  a  pious  citizen  of  the  religious 
community  in  which  he  lived,  the  awareness  of  Overt  Self 
dawned  in  his  human  overt.  Omega-male  began  to  relate  to  his 
Omega  Sap  Self  —  not  in  his  mother,  in  whom  he  could  not 
and  did  not  recognize  it,  but  in  the  community's  Deity  in 
Omega  state.  He  gradually  realized: 

1.  His  evolutionary  origin  with  the  Deity  from  the  beginning 
of  the  Deity's  existence. 

2.  The  "greater"  nature  of  the  Deity  as  compared  to  himself 
—  the  greater  information  content  of  Sap  Self  as  compared 
with  Overt  Self. 

3.  The  fact  that  Overt  Self  always  acts  in  accordance  with  the 
information  content  of  Sap  Self. 

4.  The  fact  that  Overt  Self's  behavior,  therefore,  is  —  at  least 
immediately  —  controlled  by  Sap  Self. 

5.  And  the  ultimate  fact  that  Sap  Self  is  Overt  Self's  deeper 
self,  its  actual  evolutionary  identity,  and  that  the  two  are 
therefore  one.27 

Omega-male  went  through  essentially  the  same  process  as  the 
human  alpha  will  undergo  in  its  forthcoming  transformation  — 
the  discovery  of  its  deeper  evolutionary  identity  and  of 
alpha-Omega  control  over  its  behavior  and  experience. 

Omega-male's  role  as  a  religious  teacher  ended  in  his  trial 
for  blasphemy  and  his  execution.  He  was  found  guilty  by  his 
contemporaries  for  having  claimed  to  be  the  son  of  the  Deity. 
He  had  challenged  the  very  survival  of  his  nation,  which 
believed  in  a  Deity  that  was  indivisibly  one. 

At  the  moment  of  Omega-male's  death,  Omega-Person 
experienced  full  self-realization  for  the  first  time.  Freed  from 
the  limits  of  human  perception,  Overt  Self  saw  through  all  its 


levels,  hitherto  hidden  in  non-overtness.  It  glimpsed  right 
down  to  alpha  level  integration  in  Omega-Bano. 

The  moment  was  underscored  symbolically  by  a  physical 
event  in  a  nearby  temple.  At  the  moment  Omega-male  uttered 
his  last  cry  of  agony  and  died,  religious  writers  report,  the 
curtain  which  had  hidden  the  holy  section  of  the  temple  from 
view  rent  "from  the  top  to  the  bottom.28  Psychokinetic  effects 
have  been  known  to  carry  profound  symbolic  messages.  One 
of  the  best  known  of  these  is  the  "unidentified  flying  object" 
(UFO),  or  flying  saucer,  believed  by  many  percipients  to  be 
some  kind  of  extraterrestrial  space  vehicle.  (We  share  Jung's 
interpretation  that  the  UFO  is  a  psychokinetic  effect  signaling 
an  as  yet  non-overt  psychological  event  in  man;  we  regard  it 
ourselves  as  a  signal  of  the  forthcoming  species  transforma- 
tion.29 UFO's  have  been  sighted  in  less  technically  advanced 
forms  as  balloons  and  dirigibles  by  preceding  generations. 
"Psychic"  in  nature,  they  represent  energy  fields  strong 
enough  to  show  up  on  radar  at  times). 

Religious  tradition,  commenting  on  Omega-male's  death, 
states  that  he  "descended"  into  Omega-Bano  and  left  the  new 
imprint  of  his  fully  self-aware  person  in  the  banos  of  all  alphas 
including  those  in  level  integration  who  were  having  a  "hell" 

L-  30 

experience  in  this  process. 

Omega-male's  final  Earth  days  were  marked  by  the 
restoration  of  his  body  to  life,  his  parting  instructions  to  his 
followers,  and  his  return  into  pure  Omega  state. 

The  resuscitation  of  his  body  no  longer  presents  the 
credibility  gap  it  did  only  a  few  years  ago:  The  preservation  of 
dead  bodies  of  saints  and  mystics  exhumed  in  undecomposed 
condition  (often  exuding  delicious  scents)  years  and  even 
decades  after  their  burial  and  cases  such  as  the  return  from 
death  to  life  of  George  Ritchie,  M.D.,31  have  come  to  be 
increasingly  regarded  as  evidence  at  least  partly  supporting  the 
feasibility  of  the  event  in  Israel  two  thousand  years  ago. 

After  his  final  departure  into  pure  non-energy  state, 
Omega-Overt  Self  probably  realized  its  oneness  with  the  other 
two  selves,  if  not  at  that  moment,  it  did  so  with  certainty 
upon  the  return  of  Omega-female.  Omega-Person  had  taken  its 
second  leap  and  had  now  become  "Omega-Self."  In  this  new 
planetary  biocomputer  self,  the  three  personal  levels  continued 
as  distinct  storage  and  processing  levels  but  Sap  Self's  contents 
were  now  as  readily  accessible  to  Overt  Self  .is  Pre-Overt  Self's 
had  been  all  along.  And  while  Omega-Bano  continued  to  carry 
out  its  planetary  control  functions,  its  contents,  too,  were  now 
accessible  to  Overt  Sell. 

Because  <>f  this,  we  can  assume  thai  Omega-Sell  gained 

13   to  whatever  scientific  and  technical  concepts  had  been 

basically  precomputed  ai  tin  time,  I  bus  n  ma)  have  intellec- 
tually understood  as  t.ir  back  as  two  thousand  \  ears  ago  what 
man  can  only  now  begin  to  understand,  namely  the  automatic- 
nv  and  cyberneticit)    ol   Omega  and  alpha  operation  ai  all 

levels 


Between  the  Two  Second  Leaps 

Christianity,  the  movement  which  grew  out  of  the  Omega- 
Person  Embodiment,  continued  its  specialized  "research  and 
development"  role  by  rapid  acceleration  and  development  in 
various  directions.  It  spent  its  first  several  centuries  developing 
a  comprehension  of  what  the  Embodiment  meant:  it  defined 
the  nature  of  the  three  Omega  Selves;  it  defined  the  mode  of 
the  Embodiment  as  far  as  the  Omega-male,  the  Overt  Self,  and 
the  Pre-Overt  Self  are  concerned;  it  defined,  prescientifically 
and  prepsychologically,  the  significance  of  the  Embodiment 
for  mankind's  future. 

Once  this  theoretical  structure  had  crystallized,  a  totally 
new  and  unexpected  development  began.  While  Omega-Self 
may  have  continued  to  communicate  with  humans  in  terms  of 
three  "Persons"  -  Sap  Self,  Pre-Overt  Self,  and  Overt  Self32  - 
Sap  Self  communicated  less  and  less  as  a  masculine  Deity  and 
more  and  more  as  a  feminine  presence.  (We  are  here  discussing 
Christian  religious  experience  alone.) 

While  the  feminine  presence  was  indeed  the  Sap  Self 
communicating  as  Omega-female,  this  comprehension  did  not 
become  overt;  instead  she  was  seen  as  no  more  than 
Omega-male's  human  mother,  endowed  by  the  Deity  with 
special  "privileges"  because  of  her  unique  role.  But  this  led  to 
a  wholly  new  religious  development:  a  growing  veneration  of 
Omega-male's  mother  as  a  saint  above  all  saints,  as  the  first 
human  translated  into  Omega  state.  Half-way  between  the  first 
and  twentieth  centuries  this  development  soared:  churches, 
monastic  orders,  cities,  whole  nations,  and  finally  the  planet 
itself  were  dedicated  to  the  Omega-female.  Henry  Adams,  a 
nonbeliever  described  her  as  "the  greatest  force  the  Western 
world  ever  felt." 

Halfway  through  the  second  millennium  since  the  Embodi- 
ment, Christianity  underwent  a  radical  split  in  two.  One 
branch,  Roman  Catholicism,  continued  its  established  course, 
developed  the  theology  of  the  Omega-female  further,  and 
finally  dogmatized  her  "Immaculate  Conception"  (1854)  and 
"Assumption  into  Heaven"  (1950)  as  a  binding  part  of  the 
faith. 

The  other  branch,  Protestantism,  reverted  to  an  exclusively 
masculine  concept  of  the  Embodiment,  and  scattered  into 
several  hundred  smaller  movements  each  specializing  in  some 
aspect  of  alpha-Omega  comprehension.  At  the  same  time  it  set 
in  motion  the  forces  of  human  development  in  economic, 
technical,  scientific  and  social  fields  that  produced  our  modern 
age. 

To  sum  up  the  significance  of  the  planetary  Person's 
second  leap:  In  this  event  Omega  Person  discovered  and 
became  increasinglj  aware  ol  us  own  deeper  personal  identity 
and  o|  the  fad  thai  life  is  created  and  controlled  by  a 
non  personal,  full)  automatic,  optimal,  information  and  com- 
putation process,  in  short,  cybernetic,  non-energy/energy 
evolution, 

As  a  resuli  Omega-Person  became  Omega-Self,  a  higher 
species  of  pla nei .n \  biocomputer  with  a  radical  transformation 


of  both  its  views  of  itself  and  all  life  and  of  its  own  behavior. 
It  no  longer  saw  itself  as  creator  and  ruler,  but  as  the  creature 
of  evolution  subject  to  its  control;  it  no  longer  clung  to  the 
belief  in  overt  free  will  in  either  itself  or  humans;  it  came  to 
regard  humanity  as  its  smaller  brothers  and  sisters  in  another 
species  rather  than  as  its  children  and  handiwork;  it  no  longer 
expected  man  to  obey  it  but  to  realize  optimization;  it  came 
to  develop  a  compassion  and  love  for  man,  individually  and 
collectively,  of  a  depth  and  intensity  of  which  only  an  Omega 
is  capable.  It  fully  accepted  Omega-Bano  optimization,  waiting 
patiently  and  prayerfully  for  the  day  of  man's  own  second 
leap,  the  transformation  of  human  behavior  and  awareness 
which  would  usher  in  the  full  recognition  by  species  of  one 
another. 

Omega-Self  came  to  look  back  on  its  second  leap  partly  as 
its  atonement  to  man  for  its  irrational,  fear-inducing  pre-leap 
behavior  rather  than  the  other'  way  around  as  seen  by 
theology. 

Yet  even  after  Omega's  second  leap  Omega-alpha  overtiza- 
tion  continued,  at  least  in  part,  to  present  the  old  Omega- 
Person  —  capable  of  favoritism,  wrath  and  retribution.  This, 
too,  was  a  crucial  aspect  of  optimization;  man's  safe  approach 
to  his  own  second  leap  required  it. 

Watching  mankind's  continued  suffering,  however  opti- 
mally necessary,  must  have  caused  Omega-Self  a  suffering 
which  we  humans  can  only  guess  at.  Higher  awareness  widens 
the  range  of  emotions  and  sensitivity  at  both  extremes,  in  joy 
and  in  sorrow.  (This  is  one  reason  why  all  mankind  will  emerge 
into  the  new  species  together;  the  emergence  of  only  a  part  of 
humanity  would  cause  the  "elite"  psychologically  unbearable 
pains.  For  the  same  reason  we  tend  to  conclude  that  earth  man 
has  not  been  visited  or  observed  by  any  outer-space  post 
second-leap  species.) 

We  are  not  suggesting  that  Omega-Self  suffers  as  we  do 
prior  to  our  second  leap;  there  is  no  despair,  for  instance,  since 
optimization  is  understood  and  its  outcome  foreseen.  But 
suffering  there  is  in  Omega-Self. 

This  suggests  one  possible  answer  to  the  question:  Why, 
since  Omega-Person  came  into  being  such  a  long  time  before 
man,  did  it  take  its  second  leap  so  shortly  before  ours?  One 
obvious  answer  is  that  the  information  needed  for  the  full 
comprehension  involved  in  this  leap  was  not  available  earlier. 
But  even  assuming  that  it  was,  there  is  another  answer: 
Omega-Bano  timed  the  two  leaps  so  closely  in  order  to  reduce 
Omega-Self's  suffering  to  the  absolutely  irreducible  minimum 
duration. 

This,  like  all  other  aspects  of  optimization,  suggests  that 
the  "character"  of  this  non-overt,  non-personal  evolutionary 
machine,  Omega-Bano,  may  indeed  merit  the  same  principle 
attribute  —  "love"  —  which  religion  has  already  for  some  time 
recognized  in  the  character  of  Omega-Self. 

The  Leaps  in  Prophecy  and  Fiction 

Predictions  of  man's  second  leap  abound  in  both  religious  and 
secular  literature,  in  the  arts,  in  folklore,  and  in  other  fields. 


Utopian  views  of  future  societies  with  harmonious,  unselfish 
human  behavior  emerged  in  many  cultures  and  eras.  Some,  like 
Communism,  envision  a  world  inhabited  by  present-day  man  — 
the  "old"  species  —  but  with  new  behavior  because  of  his 
liberation  from  economic  injustices  and  exploitation,  and  thus 
from  severe  psychological  conflict.  Destructive  Utopias,  such  as 
Nazism,  saw  behavioral  change  in  terms  of  manipulation  by 
selective  breeding,  or  by  sheer  domination  of  "inferior" 
peoples  by  "superior"  ones. 

Religious  prophecies  envisioned  a  more  profound  transfor- 
mation of  humanity  through  an  inner  process  of  "spiritualiza- 
tion."  These  prophecies,  based  on  direct  visions  and  precogni- 
tions, are  difficult  to  comprehend  because  their  language  is 
mainly  symbolic. 

Modern  psychology  has  decoded  the  meanings  of  nearly  all 
these  symbols.  Read  in  this  new  overt  code,  the  destruction 
pictured  in  prophecies  relates  not  to  physical  devastation  but 
to  the  destruction  of  man's  traditional  overt  view  of  life, 
identity,  behavior,  and  evolution  by  a  more  fully  aware  view. 
Another  reason  these  prophecies  are  difficult  to  decipher  is 
that  they  combine  the  description  of  the  second  leap  of 
Omega-Person  with  that  of  the  second  leap  of  mankind. 
Examples  of  ancient  religious  prophecy  well  known  in  the 
Western  hemisphere  are  those  of  Daniel,  Isaiah,  Zechariah  and 
St.  John. 


The  "Joseph  Tableaux"  and  the  Space  Odyssey 

A  brief  discussion  of  recent  prophecies,  one  religious  and  the 
other  in  science  fiction,  may  help  illustrate  some  modern 
symbology  and  the  way  in  which  both  leaps  are  mixed  in  a 
single  presentation. 

Well-known  modern  religious  prophecies  are  the  visions  of 
Jeane  Dixon,  the  American  seeress,  of  the  "end  of  time," 
coinciding  with  the  end  of  this  century.  Her  "Joseph  Tab- 
leaux" shows  an  Egyptian  pharaoh  and  his  wife  presenting  an 
infant  to  mankind.  The  royal  couple  symbolize  Omega-male 
and  Omega-female  —  and  thus  Omega-Person's  second  leap  two 
thousand  years  ago.  As  the  couple  recedes  into  history,  the 
queen  is  fatally  stabbed  in  the  back  —  the  overt  comprehen- 
sion of  the  embodiment  of  Omega-female  is,  at  least  for  the 
time  being,  eliminated.  The  infant  which  meanwhile  has  grown 
into  a  fully  mature  male  adored  by  all  the  world,  symbolizes 
the  comprehension  and  experience  of  man's  species  transfor- 
mation. Mrs.  Dixon  describes  this  vision  in  the  terms  with 
which  any  Christian  would  refer  to  the  Second  Coming. 

In  a  subsequent  book,  she  redefines  this  vision  as  the  birth 
of  "antichrist"  who  takes  over  the  world  temporarily  until  he 
is  defeated  by  the  Second  Coming  of  Christ.34  This 
reinterpretation,  too,  strikes  us  as  symbolically  accurate  from 
a  Christian  viewpoint.  Antichrist, in  the  OL-Sl  theory, represents 
everything  in  history  which  from  a  Christian  viewpoint  cannot 
be  recognized  as  being  God's  work  in  advancing  His  Kingdom 
—  all  heresies,  all  wars,  all  destruction,  in  fact,  all  evil. 


Since  the  control  of  all  life  activity  lies  in  Omega-Bano,  the 
"activity  of  the  antichrist"  describes  the  destructive  negative 
aspects  of  Omega-Bano's  optimization  control.  Eastern  theolo- 
gy has  described  the  control  of  Omega-Bano  as  "the  two  hands 
of  God,"  the  positive  and  negative  aspects  of  optimization, 
which,  though  overtly  seeming  to  be  in  conflict,  work 
non-overtlv  in  unison,  fashioning  the  new  species  and  the  new 
human  experience. 

Mrs.  Dixon's  vision  of  the  birth,  maturing  and  temporary 
rule  of  the  antichrist  and  his  destruction  by  Christ  symbolizes 
man's  discover)  and  growing  comprehension  of  Omega  in  all 
its  aspects,  including  the  fact  that  Omega-Self  is  indeed  not 
responsible  for  life's  control,  that  life  is  controlled  optimally 
by  Omega-Bano,  that  Omega-Bano  is  not  a  person  but  the 
great  optimizer,  the  real  "creator  and  ruler  of  the  world" 
whose  functions  have  traditionally,  at  least  in  part,  been 
associated  with  those  of  Omega  Sap  Self  but  are  now 
recognized  as  distinct.  The  problem  of  good  and  evil  is  solved 
at  the  very  moment  when  evil,  the  destructive  part  of 
optimization  but  until  now  no  less  vital  than  good,  the 
constructive  part,  comes  to  its  long  hoped-for,  precomputed 
solution  —  and  end.  The  "defeat"  of  antichrist  by  Christ 
symbolizes  the  end  of  the  belief  in  Omega-Bano  as  a  person 
and,  simultaneously,  the  end  of  its  destructive  optimization 
aspects. 

The  simplest  argument  for  the  existence  of  Omega-Bano  is 
that  without  its  function  mankind  would  not  have  survived  to 
reach  this  stage  —  in  fact,  without  it  life  and  evolution  would 
never  have  happened.  The  simplest  argument  in  favor  of 
Omega-Bano  not  being  a  person  is  that  no  person,  regardless  of 
what  species  and  how  intelligent  and  resourceful,  could  bear  to 
hold  the  job  for  a  single  moment. 

Mrs  Dixon's  other  visions  of  the  Omega-female  in  her 
Christian  appearance  relate  apparently  to  her  own  Church's 
specific  prophecies,  especially  those  of  Our  Lady  of  Fatima 
and  to  the  Church's  role  in  the  forthcoming  species  transfor- 
mation. 

An  example  of  prophecy  in  the  form  of  science  fiction  is 
2001  \  Spaa-  Odyssey,  written  by  Arthur  C.  Clarke35  and 
produced  as  a  movie  by  Stanley  Kubrik.  It,  too,  presents  a 
combination  of  the  two  second  leaps.  First  it  shows  man's  first 
leap  into  self-awareness  as  having  been  triggered  by  Omega- 
Bano  (symbolized  by  the  rectangular  slab).  Then  it  illustrates 
Omega  Person's  second  leap  in  the  vovage  of  "Discovery  One," 
the  spacecraft  headed  towards  "Jupiter  and  Beyond  the 
Infinite  " 

The  two  awake  astronauts  on  board  are  the  two  Omega- 
humans  David  Mowman  is  Omega-male  (of  the  house  of 
David)  while  Frank  Poole  is  the  Omega-female  (the  pool  or 
fountain  is  an  Omega-female  symbol).  "Hal  9000,"  the 
on  hoard  electronic  computer,  stands  for  Omega  Bano:  it  has 
known  the  purpose  of  the  mission  since  its  inception,  without 
divulging  its  secret  to  cither  astronaut,  it  kills  off  Poole  (again, 
temporarily  eliminating  the  historic  comprehension  ot  Omega 
female's  role  in  the  Embodiment);  it  permits  Bowman  to  force 
his    w.i\     into     us    inner    control    and    processing    section    to 

"disconnect"    Hal    9000's    "higher   brain    functions"         to 

discover  that  Omega  Piano  is  not  ,i  person,  despite  its  central 
control  role;  and  it  finally  permits  him  to  complete  his  mission 
of  death,  self  realization,  and  rebirth,  with  .ill  ol  us  unstated 

hut  obvious  implications  for  the  transformation  of  the  human 

ies 


Earth  and  the  Universe 

If  XYZ  information  travels  instantly,  the  universe  can  be 
viewed  as  a  giant  information  processing  system,  in  which  m 
planetary  biocomputers  relate  to  galactic  biocomputers  and 
galactic  biocomputers  relate  to  an  overall  cosmic  biocomputer. 
The  polytheistic  implications  of  such  a  universe  do  not 
overthrow  the  truth  of  planetary  monotheism.  Each  planet 
with  a  self-aware  alpha  species,  if  it  follows  the  evolutionary 
process  outlined  here,  must  have  a  self-aware  planetary  Omega. 
Each  planetary  Omega-Person,  once  it  has  passed  its  second 
leap,  must  have  its  specific  historic  Omega-male  and  Omega- 
female,  tied  intimately  in  suffering,  joy,  ultimate  triumph  and 
liberation  to  the  destiny  of  each  and  every  self-aware  alpha. 

Proof  or  disproof  of  this  cosmic  hypothesis  may  come  in  i 

Earth's  first  contact  with  another  planet.  If  there  is  self-aware 
life  elsewhere,  XYZ  information  flow  between  planets  cannot 
necessarily  be  assumed  to  have  been  going  on  all  along:  if  XYZ 
flow  from  one  culture  were  prematurely  and  non-overtly 
received  by  another,  its  information  and  symbology  would 
interfere  with  the  normal  evolution  and  thus  be  counter- 
optimal.  However,  once  an  alpha  species  has  completed  its 
second  leap,  XYZ  information  flow  may  open  up  automat- 
ically. This  is  not  likely  to  happen  until  the  machinery  for 
handling  information  of  such  volume  has  been  developed. 
Herman  Kahn  and  Anthony  Wiener,  strategic  systems  analysts 
of  the  Hudson  Institute,  have  speculated  about  the  possibility 
of  a  "technological  equivalent  of  telepathy"  as  one  of  many 
important  possibilities  for  the  year  2000. 36 

The  moment  extraplanetary  XYZ  flow  is  overtly  received, 
such  flow  can  no  longer  interfere  with  evolution  on  either 
planet  because  it  is  overtly  recognized  and  comprehended. 
Instead,  such  cultural  exchange  would  enormously  increase 
development  on  both  planets. 

U.S.  astronomer  F.  D.  Drake's  "Green  Bank  Formula,"  an 
informed  scientific  guess,  asserts  there  may  be  one  million 
planetary  civilizations  of  our  own  or  further  development  in 
the  Milky  Way  alone.37  This  is  based  on  the  assumption  that 
99  per  cent  of  all  civilizations  destroy  themselves  before  they 
mature  sufficiently  to  survive.  Thus  the  Formula  implies  there 
may  be  100  million  such  planets  in  our  home  galaxy  if 
civilizations  do  not  destroy  themselves.  The  a-£2  theory 
regards  planetary  self-destruction  as  counteroptimal  and  im- 
possible. There  may  be,  then,  limitless  potential  for  learning. 
But  even  if  there  were  only  ten  other  planets,  talking  to  them 
would  keep  us  busy  for  centuries  learning  about  our  home 
galaxy. 

What  we  have  sketched  here  is  the  best  we  know  how  to  tell  in 
this  space.  A  book  presenting  the  Theory  of  alpha  and  Omega 
in  greater  detail  and  with  fuller  supporting  evidence  is  in 
preparation.  Obviously,  the  thoughts,  predictions,  and  con- 
cepts expressed  here  have  almost  limitless  implications.  This 
article  is  meant  to  open  a  discussion  with  readers.  We  invite 
everyone  who  is  willing  to  share  his  or  her  own  personal 
experiences  and  research  to  write  us,  m  care  of  the  Editor,  WPI 
Journal,    Worcester    Polytechnic    Institute,    Worcester,    Mass.i 

chusetts  <>  I  609.  We  w  ill  answer  each  letter.  ^ 

We  will  close  with  two  statements  made  some  vcars  ago  by 

Buckminster  Fuller,  prophei  and  inventor; 

"The  meek  have  already  inherited  the  Earth;  only. 

they  don  l  know  it  )'<'/ 

"Man  does  not  need  to  /><•  reformed-,  he  needs  to  he 
informed  "  r— i 


1.  One  of  the  first  to  recognize  it  was  Henry  Adams  in  "The 
Education  of  Henry  Adams,"  1 906. 

2.  Francoeur,  Robert  T.,  in  preface  to  The  Appearance  of  Man  by 
Pierre  Teilhard  de  Chardin  (New  York:  Harper  &  Row,  1 965). 

3.  Gardner,  Martin,  "Mathematical  Games,"  Scientific  American, 
February  1971,  p.  116. 

4.  Ostrander,  Sheila,  and  Schroeder,  Lynn,  Psychic  Discoveries 
Behind  the  Iron  Curtain  (Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J.:  Prentice-Hall, 
1970),  pp.  9-10,  58-62,  and  other  index  references. 

5.  Thouless,  R.T.,  "Levitation",  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  1970 
Edition,  Vol.  13,  p.  1003. 

6.  Tart,  Charles  T.,  "A  Psychosomatic  Study  of  Out-of-the-Body 
Experiences  in  a  Selected  Subject,"  The  Journal  of  the  American 
Society  for  Psychical  Research  (The  Society  will  hereafter  be  called 
ASPR),  vol.  62,  no.  1,  January  1968,  pp.  3-27. 

Osis,  Karlis,  Ph.D.,  Director,  ASPR,  "Out-of-Body  Experiences: 
Subjects  Needed,"  ASPR  Newsletter,  no.  1 2,  Winter  1 972,  p.  1 . 

7.  Ostrander  and  Schroeder,  op.  cit,  pp.  227-28  and  other  index 
references. 

8.  For  a  quick  survey  of  telepathy  research  in  the  USSR,  see 
Ostrander  and  Schroeder,  op.  cit.  under  "telepathy"  in  index. 

9.  Johnson,  Raynor,  C,  The  Imprisoned  Splendour  (New  York: 
Harper  &  Row,  1953),  pp.  159-60. 

Heywood,  Rosalind,  ESP:  A  Personal  Memoir  (New  York:  E.  P. 
Dutton  &  Co.,  1964),  pp.  193-97. 

10.  Kozyrev,  Nikolai  A.,  Possibility  of  Experimental  Study  of  the 
Properties  of  Time  (unpublished),  JointPublications  Research  Service, 
National  Technical  Information  Service,  U.S.  Department  of  Com- 
merce, Springfield,  Va.  22151,  JPRS  No.  45238.  For  a  quick  popu- 
larized summary  of  Dr.  Kozyrev's  work,  see  Ostrander  and  Schroeder, 
pp.  157-66  and  other  index  references  to  Kozyrev. 

11.  Koestler,  Arthur,  The  Act  of  Creation  (Dell  Publishing  Co., 
1967),  pp.  39,76,  181. 

1 2.  Stevenson,  Ian,  M.D.,  Twenty  Cases  Suggestive  of  Reincarna- 
tion (New  York:  American  Society  for  Psychical  Research,  1966). 

1 3.  Stevenson,  op.  cit.,  pp.  1 34-1 50. 

14.  This  tentative  conclusion  is  based  on  our  own  very  limited 
field  research. 

15.  For  a  scholarly  treatment  of  precognition  suggested  by  astro- 
logical symbology  over  historic  eras,  see  Jung,  C.  G.,  op.  cit.,  Aion, 
vol.  9,  part  II,  pp.  72-94. 

16.  Paine,  Albert  Bigelow,  Mark  Twain:  A  Biography,  pp.  134, 
quoted  by  Stevenson,  I.,  "Precognition  of  Disaster,"  Journal,  ASPR, 
vol.  64,  no.  2,  April  1970,  pp.  187-88. 

17.  Young,  E.,  Robert  Morris,  Forgotten  Patriot,  New  York: 
MacMillan,  1950,  pp.  5-7,  quoted  in  Stevenson,  "Precognition  of 
Disasters"  op.  cit.,  p.  193. 

1 8.  Barker,  J.  C,  "Premonitions  of  the  Aberfan  Disaster,"  Journal 
of  the  Society  for  Psychical  Research,  vol.  44,  December  1  967,  pp. 
169-81. 

19.  Stevenson,  I.  "A  Review  and  Analysis  of  Paranormal  Experi- 
ences Connected  with  the  Sinking  of  the  Titanic,"  Journal,  ASPR, 
vol.  54,  October  1960,  pp.  153-71,  and  "Seven  More  Paranormal 
Experiences  Associated  with  the  Sinking  of  the  Titanic,"  Journal, 
ASPR,  vol.  59,  July  1  965,  pp.  21 1  -25. 

20.  Verne,  Jules,  From  the  Earth  to  the  Moon,  1873. 

21.  Ostrander  and  Schroeder,  op.  cit.,  pp.  259-281. 

22.  Case  is  taken  from  the  writers'  own  research  work. 

23.  Myers,  F.W.H.,  "The  Subliminal  Self,"  Proceedings  of  the 
Society  for  Psychical  Research,  vol.  11,  1895,  pp.  334-593. 

24.  Matthew  20:  1-15. 

25.  Jung,  C.  G.,  op.  cit.,  vol.  9  part  II— vol.  14. 

26.  Incidents:  Luke  3:  49;  John  2:  1-4,  5-11;  Matthew  12:47-50 
and  Mark  3:  31-35. 


27.  1 .  "Before  Abraham  was,  I  am." — John  8:  58. 

2.  "My  Father  is  greater  than  I." — John  14:  28. 

3.  "The  Father  loveth  the  Son  and  sheweth  him  all  things 
that  himself  doeth."— John  5:  20. 

4.  "The  Son  can  do  nothing  of  himself  but  what  he  seeth  the 
Father  do:  for  what  things  soever  he  doeth,  these  also  does 
the  Son  likewise." — John  5:  19. 

5.  "He  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen  the  Father  .  .  ." — John 
1 4:  9.  "I  am  the  way  and  the  truth  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh 
unto  the  Father  but  by  me." — John  14:  6.  "I  and  the  Father 
are  one." — John  10:  30. 

28.  Matthew  27:  51;  Mark  15:  38;  Luke  23:  45. 

29.  Jung,  C.  G.,  "Flying  Saucers:  A  Modern  Myth,"  op.  cit.,  vol. 
10,  pp.  309-433. 

30.  "He  descended  into  Hell."  (Apostle's  Creed,  p.  1023,  vol.  12, 
Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  1  970. 

31.  The  body  of  Teresa  of  Avila,  a  sixteenth-century  mystic,  was 
exhumed  three  years  after  burial  by  twenty  individuals,  including 
priests  and  doctors.  They  found  that  the  body,  without  having  been 
opened  or  embalmed,  "was  in  such  a  perfect  state  of  preservation 
that  nothing  was  wanting  to  it  in  any  way,  and  a  wonderful  odour 
issued  from  it."  Francisco  Ribera  (Teresa's  biographer),  quoted  in 
The  Complete  Works  of  Saint  Teresa  of  Jesus,  ed.  Fr.  Silverio  de 
Santa  Teresa,  O.C.D.,  trans.  E.  Allison  Peers  (London:  Sheed  and 
Ward,  1944-46),  3  vols. 

Ritche,  George,  M.D.,  "I  Found  Life  Beyond  Death,"  in  Mundy, 
Jon,  Learning  to  Die,  Spiritual  Frontiers  Fellowship,  Evanston,  III., 
1973,  reprinted  from  Fate  magazine,  December  1970. 

32.  To  make  the  correspondence  of  Christian  theology  and  a-n 
theory  specifically  clear:  The  "Father"  is  the  Sap  Self;  "Christ,  the 
Son"  is  the  Overt  Self;  the  "Holy  Ghost"  or  "Holy  Spirit"  is  the  Pre- 
Overt  Self  which  links  the  two,  both  in  pure  Omega  state  and  during 
the  Embodiment. 

33.  Montgomery,  Ruth,  A  Gift  of  Prophecy:  The  Phenomenal 
Jeane  Dixon  (Bantam,  1966),  pp.  178-81. 

34.  Dixon,  Jeane,  My  Life  and  Prophecies,  as  told  to  Rene  Noor- 
bergen  (Bantam,  1969),  pp.  191-208. 

35.  Clarke,  Arthur  C,  2001 :  A  Space  Odyssey  (New  York,  New 
American  Library,  1968). 

36.  Kahn,  Herman  and  Wiener,  Anthony  Jr.,  The  Year  2000:  A 
Framework  of  Speculation  on  the  Next  Thirty-Three  Years  (New 
York:  MacMillan,  1967),  p.  56. 

37.  Sagan,  Carl  E.,  "Life  (V:4)  Intelligent  Life  Beyond  the  Solar 
System,"  Encyclopaedia  Britannica,  1970,  Vol.  13,  pp.  1086-1087. 


Recommended  Paperback  Reading  for  a 
Quick  Survey  of  Some  Fields  Related 
to  the  Theory  of  Alpha  and  Omega 

On  past  mystical  (primarily  Christian)  experience: 

Evelyn  Underhill,  Mysticism  (New  York:  E.  P.  Dutton,  1961). 

On  contemporary  views  of,  and  approaches  to, 
expanded  self-awareness: 

Severin  Peterson,  A  Catalog  of  the  Ways  People  Grow 
(New  York:  Ballantine  Books,  1971). 

On  psychic  phenomena  and  research: 

R.  A.  McConnell,  ESP  Curriculum  Guide  (New  York: 
Simon  &  Schuster,  1  971). 


a 


I 


i 


i 


WORCESTER  ^ 

.POLYTECHNIC 

1  INSTITUTE 


H  ■  n 


-■fl 


SHBflM 


WE& 


j^H 


■■Gal 

Hi 


t@£ 


U     ' 


SB 


■i 


-r*#r; 


<•  ■ 


r\ 

Q 

■■".**» 

if  L 

I 

!  e1 

IF 

Id 

^^^B      J| 

I 

H  i^k 

r  n 

— ' 


/% 


1 .  Two  future  members  of  the  class  of  1 985  (?)  look  over  the  doings 
at  the  Reunion  luncheon  in  Harrington  Auditorium. 

2.  President  George  Hazzard  addresses  the  luncheon  crowd. 

3.  Recipients  of  the  1973  Robert  H.  Goddard  Award  for  professional 
achievement  (from  left):  Richard  Walberg,  '23;  Dean  M.  Lawrence 
Price,  '30;  Milliard  W.  Paige,  '41;  George  E.  Comstock  III,  '46. 


4.  50  and  25  in  the  same  family:  Carl  Holden,  '23,  shows  his  brand- 
new  50th  year  diploma  to  his  son  Paul,  celebrating  his  25th 
Reunion  at  the  same  time. 

5.  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46,  new  president  of  the  Alumni  Association. 
Not  shown  are  new  vice  president  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37;  Daniel 
F.  O'Grady,  '30,  and  Donald  M.  McNamara,  '55,  new  members- 
at-large  of  the  executive  committee;  and  William  J.  Hakkinen,  '70, 
new  member  of  the  trustee  search  committee. 

6.  1973  recipients  of  the  Herbert  Foster  Taylor  Award  for  service  to 
WPI  (from  left)  Gabriel  O.  Bedard,  '28;  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37; 
Albert  M.  Demont,  '31;  John  W.  Coghlin,  '19. 


A  Cry  for  Help 


We  need  your  help!  Yes,  we  need  your  help  in 
compiling  data  on  the  information  needs  and  atti- 
tudes of  alumni  regarding  WPI. 

We  need  the  data  so  that  we,  in  turn,  can  help 
you  by  sending  you  alumni  communications  that 
more  closely  parallel  your  needs,  or  at  least  the 
needs  of  the  majority  of  the  alumni. 

That's  why  we  have  put  together  a  question- 
naire, one  that  will  give  each  alumnus  an  op- 
portunity to  voice  his  sentiments  about  the  quality 
and  quantity  of  information  he,  or  she,  receives 
from  WPI. 

The  questionnaire  is  lengthy  and  involved,  but 
we  hope  each  alumnus  will  take  the  time  to 
ponder  the  implications  inherent  in  each  question. 

The  final  questions  (nos.  34  through  38)  may 
seem  out  of  context  with  the  first  part  of  the 


questionnaire,  but  they  are  important.  They  form 
the  basis  for  the  qualification  of  the  respondents. 
That  is,  age  (or  class  year)  can  clearly  impact  on 
an  alumnus'  interest  and  attitudes.  Similarly,  geo- 
graphic proximity  to  WPI  and  involvement  in 
alumni  affairs  can  bias  responses. 

Market  research  methodology  tells  us  that  we 
can  expect  more  responses,  and  more  honest 
responses,  if  we  permit  the  responders  to  be 
anonymous.  So  the  questionnaire  need  not  be 
identified.  Of  course,  if  you  wish  to  add  any  foot- 
notes or  sign  the  questionnaire,  please  do  so. 

But  please,  for  the  sake  of  better  alumni  com- 
munications, complete  the  questionnaire  and 
mail  it  to' us.  We'll  tabulate  the  answers  and  pub- 
lish the  results. 

Alumni  Publications  Committee 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 
Readership  Study 


1 .     Please  check  your  best  single  source  of 
information  on  WPI. 

D  WPI  Journal 
|  WPI  Newsbriefs 

Alumni  meetings 

Visits  to  campus 
□  Other: 

Please  check  how  much  of  the  JOURNAL 
you  read. 


2.  Feature  articles 

3.  Alumni  activity 
reports 

4.  Alumni  fund  reports  | 

5.  Sports  reports 

6.  Class  notes 

7.  "Completed 
Careers" 


8. 


All 

Most  Some 

None 

□ 

D 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 

D 

D 

□ 

□ 

□    □ 


□ 


Please  check  how  much  time  you 
spend  reading  each  JOURNAL  issue. 

One  hour  or  more 
!4  hour  or  more 
10  minutes  or  more 
□   Don't  usually  read 

Please  indicate  your  reaction  to  the 
JOURNAL'S  frequency  of  publication 
(5  issues  per  year). 

Not  often  enough 
About  right 
Too  often 


10.  Please  indicate  your  reaction  to  the 
frequency  of  publication  of  all  infor- 
mation you  receive  (JOURNAL,  News- 
briefs,  chapter  notices,  fund  mailings, 
etc.)  from  WPI  and  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. 

]  Not  often  enough 

□  About  right 

□  Too  often 

Please  rank  (1  for  first,  2  for  second,  etc.) 
the  main  purposes  of  the  JOURNAL  in 
your  opinion.  (Score  "X"  for  any  cate- 
gories you  feel  do  not  represent  main 
purpose  of  the  JOURNAL). 

11.  □   Continuing      education      of      alumni 

through  topical  articles  relating  to  WPI 
educational  programs. 

12.  |    |   News  of  alumni  and  alumni  activities. 

13.  [   )   News  of  campus  activities  and  pro- 

grams. 

14.  i    i   Stimulate  alumni  participation  in  WPI 

and  Alumni  Association  activities. 

15.  f   ]   Stimulate  alumni  contributions 

16.  f   ]  Other 


Please  check  your  interest  in  areas  of  edi- 
torial coverage  in  the  JOURNAL. 


Strong 
Interest    Interest 

17.  Feature  articles  for 
continuing  edu- 
cation of  alumni      □  □ 

18.  News  of  alumni 
and  alumni 

activities  G  D 

19.  Biographies  and 
background  stories 
on  prominent 
alumni  and  faculty  □ 

20.  News  of  campus 

activities  Q 

21 .  Sports  reports 

22.  Class  notes  □  □ 

23.  "Completed 

Careers"  □  □ 

24.  Alumni  fund 

reports  □ 

25.  Letters  to  the 

editor  □  □ 

26.  Other: [J  D 


Slight 
Interest 


□ 


No 
Interest 


□ 


□ 


□ 

D 
□ 
D 

□ 

□ 

□ 
□ 


□ 


□ 

□ 

□ 
□ 

□ 

□ 

□ 
□ 


Do  you  feel  the  JOURNAL  has  changed 
over  the  past  two  years  in : 


27.  Types  of  feature  articles 

28.  Editorial  style  of  the  articles 

29.  Use  of  illustrations 

30.  Style  and  layout 

31 .  Cover  designs 

32.  Treatment  of  traditional 
departments  and  articles 


YES 

□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 


NO 

□ 

□ 
□ 
□ 
□ 


□  □ 


33 


Please  check  whether  you  have  been 
truly  conscious  of  any  differences  be- 
tween the  JOURNAL  and  Newsbriefs. 

□  Yes  n   No 

Please  indicate  subject(s)  of  any  recent 
JOURNAL  articles  you  found  of  special 
interest. 


34.  Please  check  your  WPI  affiliation. 

Classes  of 

□  '68-'73  □  '43-'52  Q  student 
'63-*67              ]   '33-'42  ]   parent 

□  '53-'62  □   prior  to '33  □  non-alumnus 

Please  check  the  areas  in  columns  35  and 
36  which  most  closely  approximate  your 
job  function. 


35.       ]  Supervisory 

n  Non-supervisory 

]  Self-employed 

]  Retired 


36. 


□ 
□ 

□ 
□ 
□ 

q 

□ 

□ 


Engineering 

Corporate 

management 

Research 

Manufacturing 

Administration 

Marketing/ 

Sales 

Education 

Other: 


37.  Please  check  your  present  geographi- 
cal (residential)  location. 

Worcester  County 

□  Massachusetts  (other  than  Worcester 
County) 

n   New  England  (other  than  Massachusetts) 

□  Northeast  (other  than  New  England 
States) 

□  Middle  Atlantic 

□  South 

□  Midwest 

□  Southwest 

□  Far  West 

□  Outside  U.S. 

38.  Please  check  your  level  of  participa- 
tion in  alumni  activities. 

□  Member  of  local  alumni  chapter — 
usually  attend  meetings 

□  Member  of  local  alumni  chapter — 
usually  do  not  attend  meetings 

]  Active  in  other  alumni  affairs  (attend 
homecomings,  reunions,  etc.) 

□  Active  in  alumni/college  activities 
(Alumni  Council,  alumni  committees, 
admissions  screening,  etc.) 

Please  list  any  leads  the  JOURNAL  might 
follow  for  potential  articles: 


Please  indicate  subject(s)  you  would  like 
to  see  treated  in  the  JOURNAL. 


I 


Please  indicate  ways  you  feel  the  JOUR 
NAL  can  be  improved. 


Please    add    any    further   comments    you 
wish: 


1 .   Fold  here 


First  Class 
Permit  No.  162 
Worcester,  Mass. 


BUSINESS  REPLY  MAIL  postage  will  be  paid  by 


WPI  Journal 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

Worcester,  Mass.  01609 


2.    Staple  here 


tin 


v 


i  \ 


Pi 

IjS^ 

< 

^7  ^Kj 

fl 

A 

J*  J 

*"  m  am  ^  mi 


=b^ 


l-$ 


~4if 


fj-  I 


i:«fir* 


rf«i  • 


%£  $*£ 


Write-ups  covering  the  reunions  of  the 
classes  of  1928,  1943,  and  1953  were  not 
received  prior  to  the  deadline  for  the  August 
issue  of  the  JOURNAL. 


1938 


CLASS  OF  1912 
After  meeting  for  nine  successive  years  at 
the  Marlboro  Country  Club,  we  changed 
this  year  to  meet  on  the  campus.  We  as- 
sembled at  the  Higgins  House  at  6  p.m., 
Friday,  June  8,  with  a  dinner  served  by  the 
campus  caterer. 

There  were  nine  present:  Joseph  and 
Helen  Granger;  Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett; 
Eugene  and  Gertrude  Powers;  Howard  King; 
Edward  Tucker;  and  Harrison  Brown. 

After  the  dinner  there  was  a  pause  in 
memory  of  Clinton  D.  Smith  and  Fred  G. 
Munson  as  both  had  died  the  previous  week. 
Our  membership  is  now  25  of  which  13  are 
in  New  England. 

There  is  nearly  $3900  available  in  the 
Herbert  Foster  Taylor  Student  Aid  Fund. 

Questionnaires  returned  from  11  mem- 
bers and  7  widows  were  read.  Only  8 
members,  32  %,  did  not  reply. 

Harrison  G.  Brown, 
Secretary 

CLASS   OF   1913 

Sixty  years  seems  a  long  time  out  but 
George  Chick  was  able  to  round  up  several 
members  of  the  class  and  their  wives  to 
stay  at  the  Howard  Johnson  Motel  and  have 
lunch  and  dinner  at  Franklin  Manor  in  West 
Boylston  on  Friday,  June  8th.  During  the 
afternoon  Helen  Graham  and  Edith  Smith 
showed  their  collection  of  pictures  of  pre- 
vious reunions,  reminding  all  of  how  young 
and  healthy  they  looked  at  one  time. 

At  the  Friday  luncheon  and  dinner  were 
the  Farquhar  Smiths  from  San  Jose,  Calif., 
who  came  the  longest  distance;  the  Jim 
Armours  from  Grosse  Pointe,  Mich.;  the 
Grahams  and  George,  Jr .,  from  Ridgewood, 
N.J.;  and  the  New  Englanders:  the  Chicks, 
Rices,  and  Burleighs. 

Saturday  morning  we  went  to  the  Hill  for 
a  tour  of  the  new  buildings  and  the  alumni 
luncheon.  We  were  joined  there  by  Allen 
Gridley,  his  wife,  daughter-in-law,  and 
granddaughter,  thus  rounding  out  a  total  of 
seventeen  for  our  reunion. 

Greetings  and  good  wishes  were  received 
from  Barnard,  Brock,  Carpenter,  Howard, 
Lorion,  Shaw,  Stults  and  also  from  the 
"workhorse"  of  the  Class  of  1913,  Harry 
Lindsay,  who  is  currently  in  a  rest  home. 

With  sixty  years  now  behind  us,  we  are 
looking  forward  to  our  sixty  fifth 

Arthur  Burleigh,  Secrf:triry 
Leon  H.  Rice 


CLASS   OF   1918 

A  55-year  reunion  banquet  was  enjoyed 
Friday  evening,  June  8,  at  Franklin  Manor, 
West  Boylston,  with  an  excellent  menu. 
Several  who  could  not  participate  then 
joined  us  for  the  alumni  luncheon  and 
meetings  Saturday  on  the  college  campus. 

Those  attending  with  their  wives  included 
Alvord,  Coggeshall,  Dennen,  Dows,  Eresian, 
Kyes,  Luce,  and  Luther.  Others  who  came 
singly  were  Everett,  Newell,  and  Richardson. 

After  dinner,  greetings  were  read  from  a 
considerable  number  of  classmates  who 
could  not  be  present  because  of  distance, 
health,  etc.  The  spirit  and  statements  of 
loyalty  were  fine. 

Members  Dennen  and  Kyes  informed  the 
group  of  the  many  changes  in  the  overall 
curriculum,  the  expanded  enrollments  and 
facilities  developments  at  WPI  today. 
Special  references  were  made  to  the  co- 
educational aspects,  all  to  the  credit  of  the 
progressive  policies  of  the  administration 
and  faculty. 

Though  our  gathering  was  small,  its  at- 
mosphere was  warm  and  many  good  com- 
ments were  heard  from  those  who  came  to 
our  occasion. 

A  strong  optimism  prevailed  regarding  a 
60th-year  reunion  in  1978.  May  it  become  a 
reality! 

Walter  B.  Dennen,  President 
John  F.  Kyes, 

Secretary-Treasurer 

CLASS   OF  1921 

At  our  fiftieth  reunion  in  1971  the  members 
of  our  class  decided  we  should  meet  as 
often  as  possible  and  not  wait  the  usual  five 
or  ten  years.  In  accordance  with  this  agree- 
ment a  good  group  met  at  Fisherman's 
Wharf  Inn,  Boothbay  Harbor,  Maine,  on 
June  13,  14,  and  15. 

The  reunion  committee  arranged  through 
Frank  (Spike)  Brown  for  the  get-together 
and  a  fine  time  was  had  by  all  in  spite  of 
heavy  rains.  Festivities  started  with  a  joyous 
cocktail  party  in  the  Browns'  rooms. 

Thursday  morning  the  Chapmans,  Morses, 
and  Spike  took  a  boat  trip  around  Southport 
Island.  In  the  afternoon  everyone  toured  the 
Boothbay  area  by  car  or  spent  some  time  in 
the  shops. 

Friday  there  was  more  shopping  and  a 
boal  trip  to  Squirrel  Island.  For  the  third  day 
.\<i.t<;  libations  In  tin;  Browns'  "Club 
Room." 


Those  attending  the  "in-between"  re- 
union were:  Frank  and  Harriet  Brown;  Line 
and  Anna  Thompson;  Myron  and  Ruth 
Chace;  Bob  and  Eva  Chapman;  Lyle  and 
Betty  Morse;  Jerry  and  Ruth  Martin,  and 
Johnny  and  Hazel  Johnson. 

William  (Jerry)  Martin 
Acting  for  Secretary 
Carleton  F.  Bolles 


CLASS   OF   1923 

The  50th  reunion  of  the  Class  of  1923  is 
now  an  historical  fact.  On  Thursday  night 
23  members  of  the  class  enjoyed  a  fine 
dinner  hosted  by  President  and  Mrs. 
Hazzard.  It  was  great  to  join  with  classmates 
of  the  past  ( 

On  Friday  we  had  a  special  luncheon  and 
most  of  us  joined  three  WPI  faculty  mem- 
bers in  a  seminar  on  Tech  Today  in  which 
the  current  type  of  students,  curriculum,  and 
campus  life  in  general  was  discussed.  It  was 
an  interesting  and  informative  seminar  and 
illustrated  that  Tech  is  still  a  great  school 
and  moving  forward.  In  the  evening  we 
attended  a  class  dinner  at  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  which  was  most  enjoyable. 

Saturday  everyone  met  in  Harrington 
Auditorium  to  receive  fifty-year  diplomas.  At 
that  time  it  was  announced  that  $27,071  in 
cash  and  pledges  had  been  received  toward 
our  goal  of  $30,000. 

Among  the  class  members  attending  the 
festivities  during  our  50th  reunion  were: 
Blodget,  Coghlin,  Goodnow,  Harrington, 
Hawley,  Holden,  Hurowitz,  Johnston,  Jud- 
son.  Lamb,  Lundgren,  Mason,  Mattson, 
Meigs,  Meyer,  Morrill,  Pierce,  Robinson,  ' 
Scheer,  Shaw,  Snow,  Sprague,  Swan,  Tsui, 
Walberg,  and  White. 

Edwin  B.  Coghlin,  President 


CLASS  OF  1933 

The  40th  reunion  of  the  Class  of  1 933  was  a 
joyous  occasion.  On  Friday  afternoon,  the 
golfers  had  a  beautiful  day  to  play  at  the 
Worcester  Country  Club;  some  of  the  ladies 
played  bridge  at  the  new  Sheraton-Lincoln 
Inn;  and  many  others  enjoyed  a  swim  in  the 
pool  at  the  motel. 

The  reunion  banquet  on  Friday  night  was 
attended  by  thirty-two  classmates  and 
thirty-one  ladies.  Classmates  in  attendance 
were  Ed  Allen,  Alexander  Alves,  Bill  Ander- 
son, Henry  Ashley,  Waldo  Bass,  Al  Brownlee, 
Norm  Clark,  Ed  Conway,  Ray  Crawford,  Guy 
Cummings,  Tom  Decker,  Roy  Driscoll,  John 
Dwyer,  Frank  Eaton,  Bob  Ferguson,  Tack 
Hammer,  Don  Haskins,  Jack  Henrickson, 
Manny  Holoff,  Harry  Jensen,  Ed  Johnson, 
Aram  Kalenian,  George  Lyman,  Ed  Perkins, 
Bob  Peterson,  Frank  Roberts,  Jack  Shabeck,  ' 
Art  Smith,  Sub  Sweetser,  Jerry  Vail,  Dutch 
Voigt,  and  Buck  Whittum.  Manny  Holoff 
and  his  wife  from  Los  Angeles  and  Don 
Haskins  and  his  wife  from  Salt  Lake  City 
were  the  long  distance  travelers  to  this  re- 
union. It  was  a  grand  evening  for  renewing 
old  friendships  and  catching  up  on  the 
scuttlebutt. 

Most  of  those  at  our  reunion  banquet  also 
attended  the  traditional  WPI  reunion  lunch- 
eon on  campus  on  Saturday,  at  which  time 
the  Class  of  1933  presented  a  substantial 
cash  gift  to  our  Alma  Mnter. 

Thomas  E.  Decker 


CLASS   OF  1938 

In  a  very  warm  and  wonderful  way,  each  re- 
union of  our  class  becomes  more  special 
and  meaningful,  as  the  pulling  power  of 
memory  draws  members  homeward  from 
greater  and  greater  distances  to  recement 
the  friendship  bonds  we  unconsciously 
formed  during  our  struggle  through  the  WPI 
mill.  Specifics  of  interest  to  you  men  who 
were  not  able  to  get  back  are  too  numerous 
to  attempt  in  the  space  allotted  us  here,  and 
to  abbreviate  would  not  begin  to  paint  a 
fair  picture. 

It  was  certainly  our  best  reunion  so  far, 
and  indicates  a  loyalty  on  the  wax.  George 
McKenna's  resignation  as  class  president 
was  regretfully  accepted,  but  the  wisdom, 
so  typical  of  our  great  class,  manifested  itself 
by  the  unanimous  choice  of  Dick  Burke  to 
carry  us  toward  our  40th — which  has  got  to 
be  our  greatest,  because  after  that  we  just 
might  begin  to  age  some.  However,  there's 
small  doubt  that  we'll  then  move  on  to  be- 
come the  most  loyal  and  friendly  bunch  of 
"oldies"  with  the  highest  percentage  of 
class  returning! 

*M.  Leonard  Kuniholm 

CLASS  OF  1948 

The  Class  of  1 948  started  to  come  alive  some 
time  on  Friday  of  our  reunion  weekend  with 
a  stalwart  few  playing  golf  at  the  Worcester 
Country  Club.  If  those  who  showed  up  to 
play  golf  were  the  only  ones  who  will  do 
anything  to  keep  from  working,  it  really 
proved  what  an  industrious  class  we  have. 

Friday  evening  there  was  a  smorgasbord 
in  the  new  hall  between  Morgan  and 
Daniels  and  a  chance  for  more  reacquaint- 
ances.  Later  there  was  singing  and  dancing 
with  the  banjo  band  at  Alden. 

Saturday  morning  was  registration  time 
and  another  chance  to  renew  friendships  at 
the  luncheon. 

Dr.  and  Mrs.  Hazzard  had  a  great  attitude 
adjustment  hour  at  their  home  just  for  all  the 
beautiful  ladies  and  their  dull  but  depend- 
able escorts  of  '48. 

We  then  went  on  to  Higgins  House  where 
we  posed  (all  real  hams)  for  the  class  picture 
and  had  a  lovely  dinner.  Our  worthy  leader 
(Jim  McKernan)  made  a  few  announce- 
ments and  awarded  prizes  for  some  very 
dubious  distinctions  which  are  better  left 
unsaid. 

In  between  times  we  all  did  many  different 
things  like  visiting  the  Science  Center,  art 
museum,  and  taking  a  tour  of  the  college. 
On  the  tour.  Ken  Scott's  "TV  room"  was 
especially  interesting. 

Highlight  of  the  luncheon  was  Jim 
McKernan's  presentation  of  our  class  gift, 
which  incidentally  was  the  largest  ever 
given  by  a  25th  reunion  class.  (There  is  still 
time  for  all  those  who  haven't  had  a  chance 
to  actively  participate  in  our  class  gift  to  do 
so.  John  Concordia  still  has  pledge  cards  on 
his  night  table.) 

As  usual  all  of  the  fun  was  made  possible 
by  the  efforts  of  a  few  who  worked  hard  to 
prepare  for  our  25th.  Among  those  respon- 
sible for  our  successful  reunion  were  Bob 
Ferguson,  Ken  Scott  and  George  Pano  of  the 
reunion  committee;  John  Concordia,  class 
gift  chairman;  and  Bud  Dember,  Dave 
Weiner,  John  Coyne,  Al  Syiek,  and  Dan 
Sheingold. 

Paul  E.  Evans,  Secretary 


CLASS   OF   1958 

Twenty-seven  members  celebrated  their 
15th  reunion  on  June  9.  To  begin  with, 
several  members  were  surprised  when  told 
that  the  festivities  would  begin  with  cock- 
tails in  the  gym.  Times  have  changed!  How- 
ever, we  discovered  that  the  "gym"  con- 
sisted of  a  very  luxurious  lounge  with  a  large 
window  overlooking  the  playing  fields.  It 
provided  a  good  opportunity  for  all  of  us  to 
get  reacquainted  and  view  the  "new"  Tech. 
Following  the  cocktail  hour,  we  all  got 
into  our  limousines  and  headed  west  for  the 
Salem  Cross  Inn  where  we  found  a  private 
room  and  excellent  food  awaiting  us.  Our 
guestfortheevening  was  Professor  Raymond 
Hagglund  and  his  lovely  wife,  Joyce.  Ray 
happily  described  for  us  the  WPI  Plan  and 
what  it  offered  the  students  of  today.  We 


finally  made  the  play  at  the  other  end  of  the 
field  in  time  for  an  in-the-park  home  run. 

The  only  reason  either  team  came  so  close 
to  winning  was  the  brilliant  play  of  the 
ladies  as  they  dazzled  us  with  their  hitting, 
running,  and  outstanding  fielding  abilities. 
Paula  Mielinski  and  Mireille  Clavien  played 
rightfield  beautifully.  In  fact,  they  played  so 
deep  that  they  eventually  got  involved  in  the 
church  service  at  the  First  Baptist  Church 
and  didn't  come  back  for  the  next  inning  at 
bat. 

Ronnie  and  Steve  Maddocks,  who  play 
the  field  much  better  than  their  father,  did  a 
wonderful  job  of  backing  up  Al  Hoffman  at 
shortstop.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Dave  Nevers  flew  in 
from  Louisiana  to  pinch  hit  both  teams  into 
a  tie  while  John  Geffken  and  Dick  Bohigian 
acted  as  stabilizing  factors  for  each  team. 


1933 

quickly  sensed  Ray's  enthusiasm  and 
listened  with  envy.  It  became  quite  apparent 
that  WPI  is  continuing  to  live  up  to  its  repu- 
tation of  providing  an  education  relevant  to 
the  times. 

Those  representing  the  class  who  attended 
the  banquet  were:  Mr.  and  Mrs.  R.  Boyea; 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  W.  Brower;  Mr.  J.  Freese;  Mr. 
M.  Galbraith;  Mr.  S.  Graveline;  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
M.  Gutman;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  W.  Hopf;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  R.  Kangas;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  B.  Keeler;  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  S.  Kesslen;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  R.  Mc- 
Leod;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  W.  McLeod,  Jr.;  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  H.  Painter,  Jr.;  Mr.  and  Mrs.  J.  Ribeiro; 
and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  N.  Taupeka. 
William  H.  Hopf 

CLASS   OF  1963 

On  Saturday,  June  9th,  the  Class  of  1963 
held  its  tenth  reunion  on  the  WPI  campus. 
The  festivities  opened  in  the  new  WPI  gym 
where  members  of  the  several  reunion  classes 
gathered  for  registration. 

Following  the  annual  alumni  luncheon  in 
Harrington  Gym,  both  men  and  women 
gathered  the  supplies  and  equipment  and 
headed  for  the  softball  field  for  the  first 
annual  10th  reunion  softball  game  of  the 
Class  of  '63.  It  was  a  sunny  afternoon  (with 
the  exception  of  a  mild  thunder  shower  and 
small  tornado)  and  the  game  was  marked 
with  spectacular  plays,  outstanding  fielding, 
and  abundant  refreshments. 

The  "Good  Guys"  sparked  by  Jim  Kelly 
at  the  plate  managed  to  come  back  and  tie 
the  game  49-all  in  the  17th  inning.  The 
crucial  play  came  on  a  routine  ground  ball 
through  second  (because  they  didn't  have  a 
second  baseman)  which  was  handled 
beautifully  on  the  third  try  after  Bill  Zinno 
and  John  Sistare  demonstrated  some  sort  of 
agility  in  missing  the  first  two  times.  John 


The  game  finally  had  to  be  called  when  Judy 
Maynard  started  getting  more  hits  than  Bob 
and  the  teams  decided  since  most  of  the  ice 
had  melted  it  was  time  to  retire  for  the 
evening  activities. 

After  cocktails,  a  delightful  dinner  was 
held  in  the  new  WPI  dining  room  which 
overlooks  the  campus  quadrangle.  The 
dinner  was  highlighted  by  the  presentation 
of  gifts  and  awards  from  Class  President  Bill 
Zinno,  who  presented  the  award  for  the 
longest  distance  traveled  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Dave  Nevers,  the  award  for  the  most 
children  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fred  Molinari,  who 
had  the  oldest  child  of  those  tied  for  the  most 
children,  and  the  award  for  the  newlyweds 
to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Fred  Kubick.  Special  awards 
instituted  by  the  class  president  included 
ice  cubes  for  the  person  who  had  changed  in 
appearance  the  least,  awarded  to  John 
Sistare,  and  one-half  bag  of  sugar  awarded 
to  Joe  Mancuso  as  the  person  who  had 
changed  the  most,  in  the  opinion  of  the 
president. 

Following  the  dinner  two  of  our  illustrious 
electrical  engineering  graduates  went  back 
and  completed  one  of  their  EE  labs.  They  set 
up  an  excellent  stereo  system  for  the 
evening,  but  since  their  current  curve  was 
below  the  line  they  got  only  a  "B- ."  Thus, 
the  award  for  outstanding  excellence  in 
stereo  system  assembly,  although  not  pre- 
sented, was  still  deserved  by  Joe  Mancuso 
and  Les  Hart. 

Joseph  J.  Mielinski,  Jr.      . — . 


SETH    R.    CLARK,     04 

Seth  R.  Clark,  92,  died  February  7,  1973  in 
Agawam,  Massachusetts. 

The  Spencer  native  retired  in  1945  from 
his  position  as  technical  adviser-division 
manager  at  U.S.  Rubber,  Fisk  tire  plant, 
Chicopee  Falls.  He  was  at  the  plant  from 
1922  until  1945.  Previously  he  was  factory 
manager  at  Braender  Tire  and  Rubber  Co., 
East  Rutherford,  N.J.,  and  chief  chemist  and 
technical  superintendent  at  Republic  Rubber 
Co.,  Youngstown,  Ohio. 

Mr.  Clark,  who  was  a  chemistry  major  at 
WPI,  was  a  former  member  of  the  Alumni 
Council  from  the  Connecticut  Valley  Chap- 
ter. At  one  time  he  was  president  of  the 
Golden  Age  Club  in  Springfield  and  a  mem- 
ber of  the  first  Council  for  the  Aged  in  that 
city.  He  was  an  organizer  and  charter 
member  of  the  Pioneer  Valley  Stamp  Club. 

He  was  also  an  author,  having  written  a 
genealogy  of  the  Clark  family. 

CLARENCE   A.   G.    PEASE,   '10 

Clarence  A.  G.  Pease,  former  president  and 
chairman  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the 
Endura  Manufacturing  Corporation  of 
Quakertown,  Pa.,  died  on  April  4,  1973  in 
Penney  Farms,  Florida,  after  a  long  illness. 

Born  in  1887  in  Westfield,  Mass.,  Mr. 
Pease  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
WPI  in  1910,  where  he  was  a  member  of 
Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity.  After  serving 
for  a  number  of  years  as  an  officer  of  the 
Mason  and  Parker  Company  of  Winchendon, 
Mass.,  he  moved  in  1  929  to  Quakertown,  Pa., 
where,  during  the  1930's  and  1940's  he 
built  the  Endura  Manufacturing  Corporation 
into  a  flourishing  business  in  the  mechanical 
packing  and  latex-based  paper  products  in- 
dustry. He  retired  in  1948  and  moved  first 
to  Worthington,  Mass.,  and  ten  years  later 
to  Florida  where  he  resided  until  his  death. 

In  addition  to  his  business  career,  Mr. 
Pease  was  active  in  political  and  civic 
affairs.  While  in  Pennsylvania  he  served  as  a 
member  and  president  of  the  Quakertown 
borough  council,  headed  the  Selective 
Service  Board  there  during  World  War  II, 
and  was  a  director  of  the  Quakertown 
National  Bank.  One  of  his  foremost  civic 
accomplishments  was  the  direction  he  gave 
in  the  organization  of  the  Worthington 
Health  Center. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Lehigh  Valley 
Engineers  Club,  Allentown,  Pa. 

OTTO   J.   ZWIEBEL,    '10 

Otto  J.  Zwiebel  passed  away  recently. 

He  was  born  in  Waterbury,  Connecticut, 
on  February  3,  1887.  He  graduated  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1910. 

For  many  years  he  served  as  a  distribution 
engineer  for  Connecticut  Light  &  Power  Co. 
in  Waterbury.  He  retired  in  1955. 

RALPH    H.    BOWERS,    '11 

Ralph  H.  Bowers,  84,  died  February  16, 
1973  in  Bath,  Maine. 

He  was  born  in  Boston,  Mass.,  on 
August  5,  1888  and  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  from  WPI  in  1911. 

For  a  number  of  years  he  worked  as  an 
assistant  plant  engineer  at  the  Bath  Iron 
Works  At  one  time  he  w,is  with  Hollings 

worth  and  Whitney  Company  ol  W.itrrvillc. 

M<;  He  retired  in  the  mid  1950's. 


Mr.  Bowers  operated  a  ham  radio  station 
with  the  call  letters  of  WIBYR.  He  was  also 
active  in  Boy  Scout  work  and  the  Masons. 

FRED   G.    MUNSON,   '12 

Fred  G.  Munson,  84,  president  of  W.  M. 
Steele  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester,  died  on  May 
30,  1973  in  Camden,  Maine. 

Mr.  Munson  had  been  visiting  his  daugh- 
ter, Mrs.  Marjorie  Hanna  of  Rockport,  Me., 
when  he  was  stricken. 

He  was  born  in  Webb  City,  Missouri.  In 
1912  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechan- 
ical engineer.  He  joined  W.  M.  Steele  in 
1914  as  a  shop  superintendent.  Later  he 
became  treasurer,  general  manager,  and 
president  of  the  company. 

Mr.  Munson  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta 
Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  was  a  past  master  of 
Isaiah  Thomas  Lodge  of  Masons. 

Among  his  survivors  who  attended  WPI 
are  his  nephew,  GEORGE  W.  MUNSON, 
'30;  his  son  RICHARD  G.  MUNSON,  '38; 
and  his  grandson,  DONALD  G.  MUNSON, 
'65. 

STUART   G.    LEONARD,   '14 

Stuart  G.  Leonard  died  November  28,  1972 
in  DeLand,  Florida. 

He  was  born  November  17,  1892  at 
Wilmington,  Vt.  After  graduating  from  WPI 
as  an  electrical  engineer,  he  joined  Westing- 
house  Electric  &  Mfg.  Co.,  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Later  he  was  associated  with  North  Electric 
Mfg.  Co.  and  the  Cleveland  Railway  Co., 
Cleveland,  Ohio.  From  1932  until  his  retire- 
ment in  1  958  he  was  with  the  Fellows  Gear 
Shaper  Co.,  Springfield,  Vt. 

Mr.  Leonard  was  a  life  member  of  AIEE. 
His  son,  STUART  G.  LEONARD,  JR.,  was  a 
member  of  the  class  of  1950. 

CHARLES    E.    LYMAN,   '15 

Charles  E.  Lyman  passed  away  on  May  24, 
1973  in  New  London,  Connecticut.  He  was 
81  years  old. 

Mr.  Lyman  studied  civil  engineering  at 
WPI.  For  many  years  he  was  district  manager 
of  Brodhead-Garrett  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio. 

He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
Fraternity. 

VICE   ADM.    ROBERT   F. 
BATCHELDER,   '16 

Vice  Admiral  Robert  F.  Batchelder,  USN, 
ret.,  former  commanding  officer  of  the  Naval 
Supply  Depot  in  San  Diego,  Calif.,  died  on 
May  24,  1973  in  La  Jolla,  California. 

Adm.  Batchelder,  78,  served  continuously 
in  the  Navy  Supply  Corps  from  1917  until 
1957.  He  was  commanding  officer  of  the 
Naval  Supply  Depot  (San  Diego)  from  1948- 
until  1951,  when  he  left  to  become  com- 
mander of  naval  supply  activities  in  New 
York. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  studied  electrical 
engineering  at  WPI  and  later  received  his 
MBA  from  Harvard  University. 

He  helped  in  the  commissioning  of  the 
USS  Lexington  in  1927  and  alternated  be- 
tween sea  and  shore  duty  until  1943,  when 
he  reported  to  the  Atlantic  Fleet's  Am- 
phibious Forces.  He  won  the  Legion  of 
Merit  with  Gold  Star  for  his  part  in  the 
Normandy  invasion,  the  Croix  de  Guerre 
with  Palm,  and  other  World  War  I  and  II 
'  ampaign  and  service  medals. 


He  was  a  director  of  the  San  Diego 
Council  of  the  Navy  League  and  the  Navy 
Supply  Corps  School  Alumni  Association. 
He  also  belonged  to  the  San  Diego  Chamber 
of  Commerce  and  the  La  Jolla  Country  Club. 

DAVID   E.    HARTSHORN,   '17 

David  E.  Hartshorn,  79,  passed  away  on 
February  11  in  Bethesda,  Maryland. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a  civil 
engineer  in  1917,  he  received  law  degrees 
from  George  Washington  University  and 
the  University  of  New  York. 

For  many  years  he  was  an  examiner  for 
the  U.S.  Patent  Office.  He  was  a  member  of 
the  Engineering  Society  of  Detroit. 

JOHN    M.    LEGGETT,   '17 

John  M.  Leggett,  78,  died  March  20,  1973 
in  West  Hartford,  Connecticut. 

A  Waterbury  (Conn.)  native,  he  later 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI.  He  began  his  career  with  General 
Electric  Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  Then  he 
moved  to  Scovill  Manufacturing  Co., 
Waterbury,  Conn.,  and  in  1922  joined 
Southern  New  England  Telephone,  Hartford. 
In  1959  he  retired  as  district  plant  engineer. 

Mr.  Leggett  was  a  life  member  of  AIEE, 
the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  and 
the  Society  of  Professional  Engineers.  He 
also  belonged  to  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of 
America. 

RUSSELL   H.   SMITH,   '17 

Russell  H.  Smith  died  February  20,  1973  in 
Worcester. 

He  was  born  June  21,  1895  in  Haverhill, 
,  Mass.  He  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil 
engineer. 

For  a  number  of  years  he  served  as  a 
superintendent  at  U.S.  Envelope  Co., 
Worcester,  from  which  he  retired  in  1957. 
Previously  he  was  associated  with  Warren 
Steam  Pump  Co.,  and  Garitt  Mfg.  Co. 

Mr.  Smith  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
and  Skull.  He  was  active  in  the  Tech  Old 
Timers'  Club. 

SAMUEL   H.   THOMPSON,   '17 

Samuel  H.  Thompson,  78,  died  March  31, 
1973  in  Worcester. 

Mr.  Thompson,  a  native  of  Worcester, 
graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from  WPI.  He 
worked  as  a  structural  engineer  with  Stone 
and  Webster  Co.,  Boston,  until  1935  and 
I  later  with  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Reclamation 
in  Denver,  Colo.,  until  his  retirement  in  1 963. 

While  in  Colorado,  he  was  responsible  for 
pumping  stations  at  many  dams  including 
the  Hoover,  Grand  Coulee,  and  Flaming 
Gorge  dams. 

He  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma 
Xi,  and  the  Colorado  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers. 

ROBERT   L.   TOMBLEN,   '17 

Robert  L.  Tomblen,  81,  died  April  29,  1973 
in  Hartford,  Connecticut. 
The  Pepperill,  Mass.,  native,  a  graduate 
|  electrical    engineer    from    WPI,    was    em- 
|    ployed  as  a  statistician  for  the  American  Tele- 
,    phone  and  Telegraph  Co.,  New  York  City, 
'   for  30  years.  He  retired  in  1947.  From  1951 
I,  until  1961  he  served  as  a  volunteer  attend- 
ant at  Hartford  Hospital. 

Mr.  Tomblen,  who  was  also  a  graduate  of 
Bates  College,  Lewiston,  Me.,  was  a  charter 


member,  historian,  president,  and  past 
treasurer  of  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of 
America.  He  belonged  to  the  Hartford  Tennis 
Club,  the  West  Hartford  Squires,  and  Alpha 
Tau  Omega  Fraternity. 

EDWIN    H.    ROOT,   '19 

Edwin  H.  Root,  78,  passed  away  on  May  4, 
1  973  in  Largo,  Florida. 

A  retired  real  estate  and  insurance  sales- 
man, he  was  born  in  Waycross,  Ga.,  on  April 
15,  1895.  He  studied  electrical  engineering 
at  WPI  and  later  received  his  MBA  from 
Harvard  Business  School. 

Mr.  Root  was  a  55-year  member  and  past 
commander  in  the  American  Legion.  He  also 
belonged  to  the  Masons,  the  Shrine,  and 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  Fraternity. 

DAVID   ADELSTEIN,   '28 

David  Adelstein,  65,  died  on  April  5,  1973 
at  his  home  in  Bronx,  New  York. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  graduated 
with  a  degree  in  electrical  engineering  from 
WPI  in  1928.  He  was  chief  electrical  en- 
gineer with  the  Army  Corps  of  Engineers  in 
New  York  City. 

Mr.  Adelstein  was  a  licensed  professional 
engineer  in  the  state  of  New  York.  He  also 
belonged  to  the  New  York  State  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers  and  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

HAROLD   P.    KRANZ,   '29 

Harold  P.  Kranz,  retired  district  superin- 
tendent of  the  Massachusetts  Electric  Co., 
died  February  11,  1973  in  Quincy,  Massa- 
chusetts. He  was  66. 

He  was  a  Fall  River  native  and  a  graduate 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  He  was  a 
member  of  Theta  Chi  and  Skull. 


Following  a  stint  with  the  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  he  joined  the  New  England  Electric 
System  in  1931  and  worked  for  the  Narra- 
gansett  Electric  Co.  in  Providence,  R.I.  In 
1  948  he  became  superintendent  of  overhead 
lines.  He  became  affiliated  with  the  Massa- 
chusetts Electric  Co.  in  1962  and  retired 
two  years  ago  as  district  superintendent  of 
distribution  of  the  South  Shore  area. 

Mr.  Kranz,  who  was  a  member  of  AIEE, 
was  the  brother  of  EDWARD  L.  KRANZ  of 
the  class  of  1918. 


WILLARD   I.   JOHNSON,   '30 

Willard  I.  Johnson,  66,  passed  away  on 
March  7  in  Arizona. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester.  After  graduat- 
ing from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer,  he 
spent  12  years  with  Consolidated  Edison 
Co.  in  New  York.  Later  he  was  with  Joseph 
Dixon  Crucible  Co.,  Jersey  City,  N.J.;  the 
Signal  Corps  Engineering  Laboratories,  Fort 
Monmouth;  and  the  USASA  Operational 
Center,  Ft.  Huachuca,  Arizona. 

Mr.  Johnson  was  a  member  of  IRE  and 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  Fraternity. 

LUTHER    R.    EAMES,   '31 

Luther  R.  Eames  died  February  12,  1973. 

He  was  born  on  May  29, 1 908  in  Worces- 
ter and  later  studied  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI.  He  started  his  28-year  government 
career  in  1942  with  the  Radio  Direction 
Finding  Branch. 

From  1943  to  1948  he  was  a  project 
engineer  in  the  Suppression  and  General 
Engineering  Branch  where  he  was  respon- 
sible for  the  design  and  development  of  the 
AN/URM-29  UHF  noise  meter  used  by  the 
Signal  Corps,  Navy,  and  Air  Force.  In  1955 


HAROLD    B.   WHITMORE,   '21 

Harold  B.  Whitmore,  a  Trustee  Emeritus  of 
WPI,  died  in  June  in  Virginia. 

He  was  born  in  Holyoke,  Mass.,  on  July 
13,  1899.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer  in  1921,  he  joined  the 
U.S.  Patent  Office  the  following  year.  In 
1934  he  graduated  from  the  University  of 
North  Carolina  School  of  Law,  and  remained 
with  the  Patent  Office  until  his  retirement  in 
1 966.  In  1 962  he  became  Superintendent  of 
the  Examining  Corps  (highest  career  posi- 
tion in  the  Patent  Office)  and  later  he  was 
Advisor  to  the  Commissioner  and  Deputy 
Employment  Policy  Officer. 

As  Superintendent  he  directed  the  Ex- 
amining Corps,  and  was  responsible  for 
develop;ng  and  utilizing  standards  of 
patentability  and  production,  keeping  the 
arts  currently  classified,  training  new  ex- 
aminers, evaluating  the  performance  of  the 
Corps,  and  other  activities  leading  to  the 
improvement  of  Patent  Office  services.  In 
1957  he  received  the  Department  of  Com- 
merce Silver  Medal  for  his  contributions  and 
in  1966  he  received  the  Department  Gold 
Medal  Award,  the  highest  employee  honor 
that  the  Department  can  bestow. 

He  received  the  Gold  Medal  Award  for 
major  contributions  he  had  made  to  ad- 
ministration of  a  scientific-legal  program, 
highly  distinguished  authorship,  and  excep- 
tional contributions  of  major  significance  to 
both    substantive    and    administrative    pro- 


grams of  the  Patent  Office. 

Mr.  Whitmore  was  very  active  in  the 
Patent  Office  Society,  having  served  as 
President  and  Chairman  of  the  legislative 
committee.  In  civic  life  he  served  as  or- 
ganizer and  first  president  of  the  Vienna 
Recreation  Association,  playing  a  major  part 
in  the  establishment  of  the  first  public  park 
in  Fairfax  County,  Va.  He  was  also  chairman 
of  the  board  of  the  Providence  Savings  & 
Loan  Association  in  Vienna,  as  well  as 
chairman  of  the  board  of  Home  of  England, 
Gaithersburg,  Md. 

He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  IEEE,  The  American  Bar 
Association,  the  American  Association  for 
Advancement  of  Science,  and  the  American 
Legion.  He  was  a  member  of  the  Bars  of 
North  Carolina,  Washington,  D.C.,  and  of 
the  Supreme  Court. 

Mr.  Whitmore  received  the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award  from  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion in  1965  and  was  awarded  an  Honorary 
Doctor  of  Engineering  Degree  from  the 
College  in  1971. 


Boomer 


DONALD  G.  DOWNING,  '26 
Dean  Emeritus  Donald  G.  Downing, 
68,  former  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  and  a  former  dean  of 
students  and  admissions  at  WPI,  died 
April  4,  1973  in  Worcester  following 
surgery  at  a  local  hospital. 

"Boomer",  as  he  was  affectionately 
known  by  everyone  on  campus, 
entered  WPI  as  a  civil  engineering 
student  in  1922,  graduated  in  1926, 
and  with  the  exception  of  one  year 
when  he  taught  at  Lehigh  University 
(1926-27),  served  on  the  staff  at 
WPI  until  he  suffered  a  stroke  in 
February  of  1964.  He  was  on  leave 
of  absence  until  1968  when  he  was 
named  to  the  school's  emeriti  ranks. 

He  became  director  of  admissions 
in  1954  after  many  years  as  a  pro- 
fessor of  mechanical  engineering  and 
also  director  of  the  WPI  Summer 
School. 

In  more  than  a  decade  as  chief  ad- 
missions officer  at  WPI,  during  the 
1950's  and  1 960's,  Dean  Downing 
interviewed  or  supervised  the  inter- 
views of  more  than  a  thousand  pro- 
spective students  and  their  parents 
each  year.  He  also  maintained  cor- 
respondence with  them  until  the 
admissions  work  was  completed. 

As  chairman  of  the  WPI  scholar- 
ship committee,  he  handled  the  evalu- 
ation of  students'  credits,  abilities, 
and  financial  needs.  As  dean  of  stu- 
dents, he  supervised  their  counseling, 
their  organizations,  job  placement, 
and  publicity  once  they  were  on 
campus. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  received  his 
master's  degree  in  mechanical  engi- 
neering from  WPI  in  1937  and  an 
honorary  doctorate  in  engineering  in 
1  961 .  Dean  Downing  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  Pi  Delta  Epsilon,  Skull, 
American  Society  of  Engineering  Edu- 
cation, Association  of  College  Ad- 
missions Counselors,  Worcester  Engi- 
neering Society,  Eastern  Association 
of  College  Deans,  Society  for  Experi- 
mental Stress  Analysis,  and  American 
Society  for  Quality  Control. 

Admired  by  all  for  his  dedication 
to  WPI  and  for  his  remarkable  rapport 
with  the  students,  he  earned  the  ap- 
pellation of  "Boomer"  during  his 
teaching  days  when  it  was  reported 
thai  even  those  sittitH)  in  the  back 
row  of  the  classroom  could  hear  his 
lectures  without  straining  their  ears. 


In  1960  when  this  picture  was  taken,  Dean 
Downing  was  at  his  prime,  well  known  by 
every  WPI  student. 


He  also  portrayed  W.  C.  Fields  in  a 
long-ago  Tech  Carnival  which  further 
reinforced  his  "Boomer"  image. 

In  the  dean's  office,  Dean  Downing 
had  a  reputation  for  being  fair,  no 
matter  what  the  problem  was,  a  fact 
which  endeared  him  to  the  student 
body.  "Oh,  he  could  chew  you  out 
all  right,"  a  former  student  recalls. 
"But  when  his  foot  came  down  it 
didn't  hurt  too  much  because  he 
always  had  a  twinkle  in  his  eye." 

He  was  a  long-time  favorite  of 
undergraduates  and  the  classes  of 
1954  and  1965  dedicated  their  year- 
books to  him. 

Those  who  knew  Dean  Downing 
and  wish  to  honor  his  memory  are 
making  contributions  to  the  Downing 
Memorial  Fund  (see  cut).  The  funds 
will  be  used  by  the  college  to  acquire 
a  library  collection  which  will  bear 
his  name — a  fine  tribute  to  a  respected 
man. 

But  perhaps  the  most  fitting  tribute 
of  all  came  in  a  conversation  over- 
heard shortly  after  his  death  when 
one  member  of  the  WPI  community 
observed  to  another,  "I  never  heard 
anyone  say  an  unkind  word  about 
Don  Downing." 

Dean  Downing  is  survived  by  his 
widow,  Olive  Stevens  Downing  of 
Worcester;  a  son,  Allan  S.  Downing 
of  Needham,  Mass.;  a  sister,  Mrs. 
Ralph  Quimby  of  Auburn,  Mass.;  a 
brother,  ROLAND  F.  DOWNING,  '32, 
of  Meriden,  Conn.;  and  four  grand- 
children. 


QDDIPD 


woncora 

POLYTECHNIC 
INSTITUTE 


April  17,  1973 


■ 
of  our  UDdergr*dua< 
i  totaetlUa,  tad  wi 
id  tbe   ror.il  will   b< 


is.   l%-i.   Dovnla, 
>  benor  hi* 


tvlpdgrl  by   University 


■eaber  of  the  WPI    ceMuelty  for  war  yetrs.      An   envelope    1: 

|    "eaorlkl  Fund-      Woe't  you  Join  ui    In  Honoring 

Dew   DovnlcgT 


<?V  Sf^x^-t^cP  &£*4     b^S^^x 


The  above  letter  was  sent  to  present  and 
emeriti  members  of  the  WPI  staff  and  to  the 
Class  of  1926.  Contributions  from  alumni 
from  any  class  will  be  gratefully  received 
and  acknowledged. 


he  was  promoted  to  section  chief  and 
pioneered  in  the  establishment  of  radio 
interference  measuring. 

After  working  on  Courier  and  MOBIDIC 
communication  systems  and  receiving  recog- 
nition for  an  assignment  at  Fishbowl-VLF 
Observation  Station  in  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Mr.  Eames  was  assigned  to  Goddard  Space 
Flight  Center  from  1963  through  1966.  He 
acted  as  an  assistant  spacecraft  manager  at 
Cape  Kennedy  launches.  In  1966  he  re- 
ceived a  NASA  Achievement  Award  for  his 
contribution  to  the  success  of  the  first 
TIROS  Operation  Satellite. 

Returning  to  ECOM  as  resident  engineer 
for  Lockheed  in  California  in  1967,  he 
assisted  in  the  avionics  system  technical 
management  for  the  Cheyenne  AH-56A 
weapons  systems.  Later  Mr.  Eames  was  a 
member  of  the  Standard  Lightweight 
Avionics  Equipment  engineering  team. 

Upon  his  retirement  he  was  awarded  an 
achievement  certificate  "in  recognition  of 
his  long  and  distinguished  career  in  Federal 
Civil  Service." 

GORDON    E.   SIGNOR,  '32 

Gordon  E.  Signor,  62,  passed  away  February 
1,  1973  in  Boston,  Massachusetts. 

Born  in  Waterbury,  Conn.,  he  later  gradu- 
ated from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer.  For 
many  years  he  was  employed  by  Scovill 
Mfg.  Co.,  Waterbury. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Watertown 
(Conn.)  Town  Council,  the  Citizens  Con- 
sulting Committee  of  Kaynor  Regional  Voca- 
tional Technical  School,  and  the  Watertown 
School  Building  Committee.  Mr.  Signor  also 
belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon,  the 
American  Society  for  Metals  and  the  Asso- 
ciation of  Iron  and  Steel  Engineers. 

He  was  a  professional  engineer  in  the 
state  of  Connecticut.  At  one  time  he  served 
as  vice  president  of  the  Hartford  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

BERTIL   F.    HAMMARSTROM,   '34 

Bertil  F.  Hammarstrom,  60,  died  March  26, 
1973  in  Worcester. 

For  39  years  he  was  an  electrical  engineer 
at  Heald  Machine  Co.,  Worcester. 

Mr.  Hammarstrom  was  born  in  Worcester 
and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1934.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  Institute  of  Electrical  Engi- 
neers. 

E.   HUGH   OSBORNE,  '34 

E.  Hugh  Osborne,  Sr.,  died  March  30  in 
Concord,  Massachusetts,  following  a  long 
illness. 

Following  his  graduation  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI,  he  worked  for  many 
years  at  Westover  (Mass.)  Air  Force  Base. 
Three  years  ago  he  was  transferred  to 
Hanscom  AFB  in  Bedford. 

He  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega 
and  AIEE. 

LADISLAUS  T.   JODAITIS,   '35 

Ladislaus  T.  Jodaitis,  59,  died  unexpectedly 
on  May  18,  1973  in  Weymouth,  Massachu- 
setts, after  being  stricken  with  an  apparent 
heart  attack  at  a  swimming  pool. 

He  was  born  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  and 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer  in 
1935.  He  was  with  the  Army  Corps  of 
Engineers  in  Waltham.  During  World  War  II 


and  the  Korean  conflict  he  served  as  a 
lieutenant  commander  with  the  Public 
Health  Service. 

He  was  the  father  of  FRANK  T.  JODAITIS 
of  the  Class  of  1967. 

YNGVE   H.    NORDSTROM,   '36 

Yngve  H.  Nordstrom,  61 ,  died  in  the  Memo- 
rial Hospital  in  Worcester  on  May  5,  1973. 

He  was  born  in  Sweden  on  October  13, 
1 91 1 .  Following  his  graduation  from  WPI  as 
a  chemist,  he  joined  the  research  labora- 
tories of  Norton  Company,  Worcester,  as  an 
engineer  of  organic  development. 

Later  he  was  made  chief  of  the  organic 
bond  unit  and  assistant  director  of  research 
and  development  in  charge  of  the  abrasive 
section.  In  1966  he  was  appointed  technical 
associate  to  the  director  of  research  and 
development  for  the  abrasive  division. 

Mr.  Nordstrom  was  chairman  of  the  board 
of  directors  of  Anker  House,  Worcester,  a 
home  for  delinquent  boys.  He  was  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi,  the  American  Chemical  Society, 
National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers, 
Worcester  Economic  Club,  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 

ROBERT  A.   SCHULTHEISS,   '42 

Robert  A.  Schultheiss,  52,  manager  of  the 
thermostat  metals  department  of  Texas  In- 
struments, Inc.,  Attleboro,  Massachusetts, 
died  April  19,  1973  in  Attleboro. 

He  was  born  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y.,  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer,  and 
during  his  career  worked  for  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Schultheiss-Knight,  The  Robbins 
Co.,  and  Fenwal  Laboratories,  Inc.  Sixteen 
years  ago  he  joined  Texas  Instruments  as 
manager  of  field  sales,  metals  and  controls 
division. 

Mr.  Schultheiss  was  a  past  vice  president 
of  the  Attleboro  Chamber  of  Commerce  and 
past  president  of  the  Junior  Achievement 
Club.  He  was  a  former  member  of  the 
Jaycees  and  an  officer  of  the  Attleboro 
branch  of  the  Power  Squadron.  He  was  also 
a  professional  engineer  in  the  state  of 
Massachusetts,  a  member  of  the  American 
Management  Association,  and  chairman  of 
the  education  committee  of  the  U.S.  Chamber 
of  Commerce. 

He  was  the  brother  of  JOHN  P.  SCHULT- 
HEISS, '41,  and  RALPH  D.  SCHULT- 
HEISS,'44. 

RICHARD    F.    DYER,   '43 

Richard  F.  Dyer  passed  away  in  November 
1972  in  Kingsport,  Tennessee. 

A  native  of  Natick,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engineer  in  1943. 
After  serving  as  a  Lt.  Commander  in  the 
Navy,  he  joined  Tennessee  Eastman  Co., 
Kingsport,  Tenn.,  where  he  became  chief 
engineer. 

Mr.  Dyer  belonged  to  ASME,the  American 
Association  for  Textile  Technology,  and  the 
American  Association  for  Advancement  of 
Science.  He  was  a  licensed  engineer  in  the 
state  of  Tennessee  and  was  a  member  of 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 

LESLIE   A.    KEEFE,   '56 

Leslie  A.  Keefe  died  January  20,  1973  in 
Reading,  Massachusetts,  following  a  long 
illness.  He  was  38. 

He  was  born  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  and  later 
was  a  student  at  WPI.  For  several  years  he 


was  associated  with  Riley-Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester.  Ten  years  ago  he  joined  the  staff 
of  Avco  Corp.  as  a  research  engineer  in  the 
field  of  advanced  technologies  in  power 
generation  and  depollution. 

Mr.  Keefe  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  Fraternity. 

RICHARD    P.   IBSEN,   '60 

Richard  P.  Ibsen,  34,  vice  president  of 
Ibsen  Brothers,  Inc.  (building  contractors), 
North  Haven,  Connecticut,  died  suddenly  on 
March  5,  1973. 

A  native  of  New  Haven,  Conn.,  he  later 
studied  civil  engineering  at  WPI,  where  he 
was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon. 

Mr.  Ibsen  was  a  member  of  the  North 
Haven  Republican  Town  Committee. 

VILHO  J.    KANGAS,   '63   SIM 

Vilho  J.  Kangas,  44,  treasurer  of  G.  F. 
Wright  Steel  &  Wire  Co.,  Worcester,  died 
February  9  in  Holden,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  Kortesjarvi,  Finland,  on 
June  11,  1928.  He  was  graduated  from 
Worcester  Junior  College,  New  England 
School  of  Accounting,  and  WPI's  School  of 
Industrial  Management.  For  twenty  years  he 
was  with  the  Wright  company. 

Mr.  Kangas  was  a  member  of  the  National 
Association  of  Accountants.  He  served  in 
the  Navy  in  World  War  II. 

FREDERICK   S.   SHERWIN,  JR.,   '72 

Frederick  S.  Sherwin,  Jr.,  29,  died  on  March 
10,  1973  in  Jamaica  Plain,  Massachusetts 
following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Paterson,  N.J.,  on  April 
27,  1943.  After  graduating  from  Norwich 
University,  Northfield,  Vt.,  in  1966,  he  later 
received  his  master's  degree  in  mechanical 
engineering  from  WPI.  He  served  in  the  U.S. 
Army  for  three  years,  including  a  year  in 
Vietnam,  and  was  honorably  discharged  as  a 
captain  in  June  of  1971. 

He  received  a  Meritorious  Achievement 
Award  for  his  work  at  the  Army  Aviation 
Laboratory,  Ft.  Eustis,  Va.,  and  the  Bronze 
Star  for  meritorious  achievement  in  Vietnam. 

Mr.  Sherwin  was  the  son  of  FREDERICK 
S.  SHERWIN  of  the  Class  of  1 941 . 


Your  Class 
and  Others 


GEORGE  F.  (Hap)  MARTIN  and  his  bride 
of  65  years  have  moved  again  to  West- 
minster, Mass.  Throughout  the  years  they 
have  enjoyed  good  health  and  happiness  in 
the  vicinity  of  Worcester.  They  took  time  off 
this  year  for  a  seven-week  visit  to  Florida. 
They  have  two  daughters,  one  son,  eleven 
grandchildren, and  three  great-grandchildren. 
Hap  promises  to  write  the  history  of  his  life 
since  1910  for  future  publication.  .  .  .  MR. 
BARNEY,  who  has  served  so  faithfully  as 
class  secretary,  suffered  several  heart  at- 
tacks during  the  winter  and  is  not  certain 
that  he'll  be  able  to  continue  to  send  in  the 
news.  His  classmates  and  everyone  at  WPI 
hope  for  his  speedy  recovery. 


1921 


DR.  JOHN  W.  WILLIAMS,  professor  emeri- 
tus of  chemistry  at  the  University  of  Wiscon- 
sin, received  an  honorary  doctor  of  science 
degree  from  WPI  at  commencement.  He  is 
co-author  of  the  book  Experimental-Physical 
Chemistry  and  has  written  over  1 25  scientific 
papers  and  review  articles. 

RUSSEL  B.  HENCHMAN  has  retired.  He 
was  self-employed  with  Charles,  Ryan,  & 
Rivers,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  .  ALAN  W. 
RUSSELL,  a  former  self-employed  dairy 
farmer  in  Burlington,  Washington,  has 
retired. 


1902 


1917 


The  Rev.  WINTHROP  G.  HALL,  minister 
emeritus  of  Pakachoag  Community  Church 
of  Auburn,  Mass.,  and  a  former  industrialist 
and  executive  of  several  social  service  or- 
ganizations, received  an  honorary  doctor  of 
engineering  degree  from  WPI  at  commence- 
ment. For  25  years  he  was  associated  with 
Spencer  Wire  Co.,  and  was  general  super- 
intendent of  its  Goddard  Works  at  the  time 
of  its  absorption  into  Wickwire  Spencer 
Steel  Corp.  He  became  president  of  Charlton 
Woolen  Co.  in  1927,  and  still  serves  in  that 
position.  He  had  been  active  in  religious 
work  for  more  than  65  years  and  was 
ordained  a  Congregational  minister  in  1951. 


1906 


EDWARD  WRIGHT,  who  worked  as  a  state 
sanitary  engineer  until  his  retirement  fifteen 
years  ago,  represents  Precinct  One  in  Ded- 
ham,  Mass.,  at  town  meetings.  He  joined 
the  town  meeting  in  1927,  the  year  that 
limited  membership  was  introduced,  and 
has  been  there  ever  since. 


1908 


DONALD  D.  SIMONDS  reports  that  after 
having  lived  alone  for  twelve  years  and 
getting  tired  of  his  own  company,  he  is 
enjoying  living  with  his  daughter  and  her 
family  in  their  spacious  house  at  2  Alexander 
Ave.,  Nutley,  N.J.  (He  had  lived  for  43  years 
in  his  Worcester  house  prior  to  moving  last 
winter.)  He  is  especially  happy  with  his  new 
living  arrangement  and  says,  "Since  my 
son-in-law  is  a  doctor  I  should  be  pretty 
well  taken  care  of  for  the  rest  of  my  life." 


1910 


CHARLES  E  BARNEY  writes  that  KARL  E. 
HERRICK  and  his  wife  of  Laguna  Hills, 
Calif.,  report  that  they  are  fortunate  to  be  in 
good  health  and  enjoying  golf  and  bridge  to 
keep  busy.  The  Herricks  spent  several  weeks 
in  Hawaii  last  fall  and  were  planning  to  go 
to  P.ilm  Springs  for  a  visit  around  Easter.  .  .  . 


HENRY  W.  SHELDRICK,  formerly  of  Collier 
Keyworth  Co.,  Gardner,  Mass.,  has  retired. 


1919 


RAY  W.  HEFFERNAN  received  an  honorary 
Doctor  of  Business  Administration  Degree 
from  Anna  Maria  College  in  Paxton,  Mass., 
in  May.  He  is  chairman  of  the  board  of  H.  H. 
Brown  Shoe  Company,  Inc.,  Worcester,  and 
all  its  subsidiaries.  He  was  a  member  of  the 
first  Diocesan  Council  of  Administration  and 
was  named  a  Knight  of  Malta  in  1946,  and  a 
Knight  of  the  Holy  Sepulcher  in  1958  by 
Pope  Pius  XII.  Currently  he  is  an  honorary 
trustee  of  Anna  Maria  and  a  trustee  of 
Oblate  College,  Washington,  D.C.,  and 
Rosemont  College,  Rosemont,  Pa.  He  has 
also  received  an  honorary  degree  from  Holy 
Cross  College,  Worcester.  He  received  the 
Robert  H.  Goddard  Award  from  WPI  in 
1972.  .  .  .  GEORGE  R.  RICH,  director  and 
senior  vice  president  in  charge  of  power 
divisions  at  Charles  T.  Main,  Inc.,  Boston, 
has  been  named  an  honorary  member  of  the 


Rich  '19 

Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  Since 
joining  Main  in  1945  Mr.  Rich  has  directed 
the  design  of  many  hydroelectric,  thermal 
and  transmission  projects  including  the  St. 
Lawrence  and  Niagara  Power  Projects.  Cur- 
rent U.S.  projects  include  the  Blenheim- 
Gilboa  pumped-storage  hydroelectric  project 
for  the  Power  Authority  of  the  State  of  New 
York  and  the  Bear  Swamp  pumped-storage 
project  at  Rowe,  Mass.  He  is  also  in  charge 
of  numerous  major  international  power  proj- 
ects. Besides  lecturing  at  Columbia  and 
Harvard  Universities,  Mr.  Rich  has  written 
several  books  on  hydraulic  engineering,  in- 
cluding Hydraulic  Transients. 


1922 


GEORGE  A.  WALKER  was  presented  a 
plaque  by  the  Northern  New  Jersey  Chapter 
at  a  chapter  meeting  held  last  February.  He 
received  the  award  in  recognition  of  his 
many  years  of  devoted  service  to  the 
chapter  and  the  college.  Mr.  Walker,  who 
was  formerly  with  New  Jersey  Bell  Tele- 
phone Co.  and  later  a  self-employed  con- 
sulting engineer,  is  now  retired  and  living  in 
Fort  Wayne,  Indiana. 


Left  to  right:  Victor  E.  Kohman,  '43, 
chapter  president;  George  A.  Walker,  '22; 
and  President  George  W.  Hazzard 


1923 


CARL  M.  HOLDEN  not  only  has  three  sons 
who  graduated  from  WPI  (a  total  of  six  WPI 
degrees  including  one  ME  and  one  MSI),  he 
also  has  three  sons  who  have  inherited  his 
love  of  the  out-of-doors  and  travel. 

PAUL  C.  HOLDEN, '48,  who  is  manager 
Engine  Cooling  and  Combustion  Engineer- 
ing Department,  Gas  Turbine  Division,  West- 
inghouse  Electric  Corp.,  in  South  Philadel- 
phia,enjoys  canoeing.  ROBERTW.  HOLDEN, 
'55,  a  senior  member  of  the  faculty  at  Gross- 
mont  College,  El  Cajon,  Calif.,  likes  camping 
out  in  the  remote  areas  of  the  High  Sierras 
and  Baja,  California.  A  couple  of  years  ago 
Bob  and  his  family  and  Carl  went  on  a 
camping  trip  throughout  the  British  Isles  and 
Scmclm.ivi.i.  PHILIP  A.  HOLDEN, '59,  com- 


puter  systems  supervisor  for  DuPont  in 
Brevard,  N.C.,  is  also  a  camping  and  canoe- 
ing enthusiast. 

So  far  Carl's  travels  in  the  near  half  of  the 
world  have  extended  to  the  Yukon,  North- 
east Finland,  Leningrad,  the  Holy  Land,  East 
Africa,  Southern  Chile,  and  Hawaii.  He  also 
has  visited  all  fifty  states  and  all  the  Canadian 
provinces.  And  whenever  he  wants  to  relive 
some  of  the  highlights  of  his  tours,  he  can. 
He's  made  an  extensive  photographic  record 
of  them  all — in  living  color! 


1925 


CHARLES  V.  MOREY  has  retired  to  Lake 
Worth,  Fla.  He  was  with  Consolidated 
Edison  Co.,  New  York  City. 


1926 


FRED  H.  HEDIN  has  retired  from  his  duties 
as  a  consultant  and  is  located  in  West  Hart- 
ford, Conn.  .  .  .  STANLEY  R.  OSBORNE, 
former  vice  president  and  partner  in  Hub- 
bard, Lawless  &  Osborne,  Associates,  New 
Haven,  Conn.,  has  retired.  .  .  .  PAUL.  S. 
OTIS  has  retired  as  a  materials  and  research 
engineer  at  the  N.H.  Department  of  Public 
Works  in  Concord. 


1927 


JOHN  E.  HOWE,  who  was  formerly  with 
Sear-Brown,  Rochester,  N.Y.,  is  a  retiree.  .  .  . 
ERNEST  T.  PARSONS  has  retired  from  the 
Public  Service  Co.,  Manchester,  N.H. 


1928 


EDWARD  A.  HUBBARD  is  a  retiree.  He  was 
with  IBM  Corp.,  Glendale  Labs,  Endicott, 
N.Y. .  .  .  WALTON  P.  LEWIS  has  retired  from 
Eagles  Mere  Realty,  Gilford,  N.H.  .  .  .  KARL 
W.  PENNEY  has  retired  from  Norton  Co., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  STANLEY  H.  PICKFORD  is 
also  retired.  Formerly  he  was  employed  by 
Leland-Gifford  Co.,  subsidiary  of  White 
Consolidated  Industries,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
ELMER  L  TAYLOR  has  retired  from  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Currently  JAMES  W. 
TORRANT  serves  as  general  manager  of 
Southern  Pump  &  Supply  Co.,  Tampa,  Fla. 
.  .  .  CHARLES  A.  WARREN,  who  was  with 
United  Aircraft  Corp.,  East  Hartford,  Conn., 
is  retired. . . .  The  former  executive  vice  presi- 
dent at  Leland  Gifford  Co.,  Worcester, 
ANDREW  L.  WILKINSON,  has  retired. 


1929 


JOHN  D.  PUTNAM,  formerly  with  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester,  is  retired.  .  .  .  HAROLD  P. 
RICHMOND  has  retired  as  president  of 
Associated  Energy  Systems,  Inc.,  in  New 
Jersey  and  is  now  located  in  Durham,  N.C. 


1930 


GARDNER  F.  DAVIS  has  retired.  .  .  .  Thirteen 
hundred  well-wishers,  including  Gov. 
Francis  W.  Sargent,  recently  honored 
DANIEL  S.  HORGAN  upon  his  retirement  as 
chief  engineer  of  the  Massachusetts  Depart- 
ment of  Public  Works.  Gov.  Sargent,  who 
was  one  of  the  speakers  at  the  testimonial 
dinner  which  was  held  in  Framingham  said, 
"As  far  as  I'm  concerned  there  is  and  has 
been  only  one  chief  engineer  of  the  DPW. 
And  that's  Dan  Horgan."  Horgan,  who  re- 
tired in  February,  was  with  the  DPW  for  43 
years.  .  .  .  LINCOLN  B.  HATHAWAY  is  a 
recent  retiree.  Formerly  he  was  a  project 
engineer  at  Revere  Copper  &  Brass,  Inc., 
New  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  W. 
JASPER  is  retired. . . .  Also  retired  is  RUSSELL 
J.  LeBOSQUET.  He  was  with  Wisconsin 
Power  &  Light  Co.  in  Madison.  .  .  .  DANIEL 
F.  O'GRADY  writes  that  he  is  retiring  in  July 
after  43  years  of  "steady  employment."  He 
has  been  assistant  general  manager  of  public 
relations  for  New  England  Telephone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  Boston.  He  says  he  is  enjoy- 
ing his  good  health  and  five  grandchildren, 
including  Dan  F.  III.  Mr.  O'Grady  is  a  trustee 

of  WPI WILSON  H.  RICE,  former  value 

engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn.,  has  retired.  .  .  .  JOHN  H. 
WELLS  is  now  manager  of  scientific  com- 
puter applications  for  United  Engineers  & 
Constructors,  Inc.,  Boston. 


1931 


EDWARD  D.  AMSDEN  works  for  Interna- 
tional Packings  Corp.,  Bristol,  N.H.  .  .  . 
CLARENCE  L.  BUELL  is  a  retiree.  Formerly 
he.  was  owner  of  Lawn  Mower  &  Garden 
Tractor  Sales  &  Service,  Trumbull,  Conn.  .  .  . 
DANIEL  P.  DYER  is  now  retired.  He  was  a 
chief  test  engineer  at  Budd  Automotive, 
Detroit,  Mich.  ...  A.  WALLACE  GOVE  has 
joined  Wescor  Parking  Systems  Corp., 
Worcester,  as  a  traffic  engineering  consult- 
ant. Retired  last  fall  as  director  of  the 
Bureau  of  Transportation,  Planning  and  De- 
velopment for  the  Massachusetts  DPW,  he 
was  also  Worcester  City  Traffic  engineer  from 
1 942  until  1 965.  In  his  new  assignment  with 
Wescor,  he  will  consult  on  traffic  and 
capacity  counts  and  design  for  parking 
garages  and  lots  in  the  city.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  E. 
TOTAS  has  retired.  He  was  with  American 
Steel  &  Wire,  Worcester. 


1932 


ELIEZER  ARONOV  has  retired  as  director  of 
the  parking  authority  for  the  Municipality  of 
Tel-Aviv  Jaffa,  and  is  now  located  in  Rome, 
Italy.  .  .  .  THEODORE  H.  BERARD,  a  teacher 
at  Athol  (Mass.)  High  School  since  1936 
and  guidance  director  for  the  past  fifteen 
years,  is  retiring  this  summer.  He  taught 
French  and  started  the  guidance  system  at 
the  school.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
mechanical  engineer,  he  received  a  MA  from 
the  University  of  Toulouse,  France,  and  a 
MA    in    education    from    Clark    University, 


Worcester.  .  .  .  EINO  0.  LEPPANEN  is  retired 
from  his  duties  with  Mobil  Oil  Corp., 
Riverside,  R.I. 


1933 


Currently  MANNING  HOLOFF  is  president 
of  manufacturing,  Magna-Lites,  Manning 
Holoff  Co.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  .  EDWIN 
L.  JOHNSON,  vice  president  of  operations 
for  the  Connecticut  Light  and  Power  Com- 
pany, spoke  on  "Public  Utilities  and  the 
Energy  Crisis,"  at  a  recent  meeting  of  the 
Meriden    (Conn.)    Industrial    Management 

Club JOHN  C.  KEEFE,  city  manager  of 

Modesto,  Calif.,  learned  in  April  that  his  city 
had  won  one  of  eleven  1972  All-American 
Cities  Awards.  Last  year  Keefe  decided  to 
lead  Modesto's  second  bid  for  the  honor  (it 
had  won  in  1955)  when  a  citizens'  group 
turned  over  a  museum  of  art  and  history  they 
had  renovated  to  the  city.  Keefe,  who  plans 
to  retire  in  December,  was  a  former  city 
engineer  in  Northampton,  Mass.  He  later 
was  employed  as  public  works  director  in 
Annapolis,  Md.,  and  Palm  Springs,  Calif. 
For  six  years  he  was  city  manager  for  San 
Bruno,  Calif.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  M.  POTTER 
has  retired  as  chief  engineer  of  rotary  equip- 
ment at  The  Bendix  Corporation's  Electric 
Power  Division  after  completing  nearly  40 
years  in  the  electric  power  generating  field. 
During  this  time  he  has  acquired  a  reputa- 
tion as  an  industry  authority  on  light-weight 
aircraft  generators.  He  was  awarded  25 
patents  while  with  Bendix  and  has  several 
applications  pending.  Potter  led  the  develop- 
ment of  the  present  Bendix  line  of  DC  and 
starter  generators  and  air-cooled  brushless 
AC  generators.  He  was  appointed  assistant 
chief  engineer  in  1960  and  chief  engineer  in 
1968. 


1934 


CLARENCE  W.  ANDERSON,  who  worked 
as  superintendent  of  engineering  at  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester,  for  many  years,  retired   in 

February RUSSELL  P.  HOOK  is  manager 

of  research  and  engineering  in  the  grinding 
machine  division  of  Warner  &  Swasey, 
Worcester. 


1935 


JOSEPH  GLASSER,  a  Raytheon  Company 
vice  president,  has  been  named  to  the  newly 
established  post  of  manufacturing  manager 
for  the  company's  Missile  Systems  Division. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  all  manufacturing 
operations  in  the  division,  which  is  the 
largest  operating  unit  in  the  company.  In 
addition,  he  will  continue  to  serve  in  his 
present  position  as  Andover  plant  manager. 
He  has  been  with  Raytheon  since  1945. 
Recently  he  received  an  Honorary  Doctor  of 
Science  Degree  from  Lowell  Technological 
Institute.  .  .  .  Currently  PAUL  S.  KRANTZ  is 
with  Kropp  Forge  Co.,  Chicago,  III.  Kropp  is 
a  division  of  Anadite,  Inc.  .  .  .  EVAN  C.  LUCE 
has  retired  as  senior  product  engineer  at 
Norton    Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  WILLIAM    J. 


SAMBORSKI  is  now  a  senior  engineer  at 
Norton  Co.  .  .  .  DR.  IRVING  SKEIST,  presi- 
dent of  Skeist  Laboratories,  Inc.,  Livingston, 
N.J.,  is  also  a  co-director  of  the  Adhesives 
Institute,  a  division  of  the  Laboratories.  The 
Institute  provides  research  and  development 
services  to  raw  materials  suppliers,  formula- 
tors,  and  end  users.  Dr.  Skeist  recently 
lectured  on  adhesives  throughout  the 
United  States  under  the  auspices  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society. 


1936 


ROBERT  W.  BAKER  works  at  National 
Standard  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
MAYNARD  is  with  Varian  Co.,  Lexington, 
Mass. 


1937 


HERBERT  G.  GUSTAFSON  is  employed  by 
Warner  &  Swasey  Co.,  Grinding  Machine 
Division,  Worcester.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  S. 
HARVEY,  president  of  Harvey  &  Tracy,  As- 
sociates, Inc.,  Worcester,  has  received  the 
eighth  Ralph  W.  Home  Award  from  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers.  His  cita- 
tion read  in  part  that  he  is  a  "dedicated  civil 
engineer  for  his  efforts  over  many  years  to 
better  the  community  on  various  boards  and 
committees  and  local  governments,  hospi- 
tals, and  youth  organizations."  Mr.  Harvey 
is  a  trustee  of  WPI  and  St.  Vincent  Hospital, 
Worcester,  where  he  is  also  director  of  the 
St.  Vincent  Hospital  Research  Foundation. 
It  was  announced  in  April  that  he  will  head 
the  1974  Bishop's  Fund  for  the  Worcester 
diocese.  In  May  he  received  a  certificate  of 
recognition  for  his  work  on  behalf  of  the 
engineering  profession  at  a  dinner  sponsored 
by  the  Central  Massachusetts  Chapter,  Na- 
tional Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 
NORTON  S.  REMMER,  '60,  senior  building 
inspector  and  plans  examiner  in  Worcester's 
Bureau  of  Public  Buildings,  presented  the 
award.  .  .  .  CHARLES  R.  MICHEL  is  man- 
ager. Employee  Information  Services,  At- 
lantic Richfield  Co.,  Los  Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Prof.  RAY  K.  LINSLEY  was  awarded  the 
D.  Sc.  degree  by  the  University  of  the 
Pacific  at  its  commencement  on  May  27  for 
"Outstanding  Contributions  to  Engineering 
and  Engineering  Education."  He  has  been  a 
professor  of  civil  engineering  at  Stanford 
University  since  1950  and  has  served  as 
department  head  and  associate  dean.  He 
was  also  director  of  the  program  in  engineer- 
ing-economic planning  aimed  at  bringing 
engineering  students  more  deeply  into  so- 
cial, economic,  and  political  aspects  of 
public  works.  Since  1968  he  has  served  on 
the  National  Water  Commission  which  sub- 
mitted its  final  report,  "A  Water  Policy  for 
the  Future,"  to  the  president  and  congress 
in  June. 


New  association 
president's  hats 
for  3  alumni 


Economou  '44 


Tan  '45 


Three  WPI  alumni,  already  presidents  or 
executive  officers  of  their  own  companies, 
have  again  been  named  presidents.  This 
time  they  head  trade  group  associations 
which  are  national  and  international  in 
scope,  have  memberships  of  thousands,  and 
which  represent  billions  of  dollars  worth  of 
products  and  equipment. 

ROBERT  H.  FIELD,  '38,  owner-president 
of  Field  Concrete  Pipe  Co.,  Wauregan, 
Conn.,  was  recently  installed  as  president  of 
the  American  Concrete  Pipe  Association  at 
the  association's  annual  meeting  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  He  served  as  vice  president  last 
year  and  has  been  a  member  of  the  board  of 
directors  since  1 967.  Previously  he  was  with 
Wickwire  Spencer  Steel  Co.,  and  the 
American  Thermos  Bottle  Co. 

NICHOLAS  N.  ECONOMOU,  '44,  presi- 
dent and  general  manager  of  Western  Road 
Machinery  Co.,  Salt  Lake  City;  president  of 
Western  Road  International,  Salt  Lake  City; 
and  president  of  Southwest  Machinery  Co., 
Phoenix,  Ariz.,  has  been  elected  president  of 


1938 


WALTER  J.  HOWARD  is  a  retiree.  Formerly 
he  was  a  solid  state  physicist  with  the  Air 
Force  Logistics  Command,  Wright-Patterson 
AFB,  Ohio.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  H.  JENKINS  is  a 
self-employed  real  estate  broker. . . .  ROBERT 
B.  KEITH,  who  was  an  industrial  engineer  for 
U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  Pittsburgh,  has  retired.  .  .  . 
BASIL  C.  KIMBALL  is  plant  manager  at 
Chelsea  Memorial  Hospital,  Chelsea,  Mass. 
.  .  .  DANA  D.  STRATTON  is  currently  the 
director  of  the  Engineering  Specifications 
and  Standards  Department,  Naval  Air  En- 
gineering Center,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  His  son, 
Wayne,  is  studying  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  MASON  B.  WHITING  is  a  self- 
employed  real  estate  broker  in  Redding 
Ridge,  Conn. 


1939 


FRANK  L.  ABBOTT,  JR.,  is  product  manager 
for  Cincinnati  Milacron  in  Germany.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  F.  BEATTY,  JR.,  works  for  RCA, 
Burlington,  Mass. . . .  STEPHEN  A.  LINCOLN 
is  with  Anken  Industries,  Williamstown, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  B.  MIRICK  has  retired  as 
president  of  Sanitary  Farm  Dairies,  Inc.,  St. 
Paul,  Minn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  J.  MULLER  works 
for  Gerber  Scientific  Instrument  Co.,  South 


Field  '38 

Associated  Equipment  Distributors,  the 
1,400-member  international  association  of 
the  construction  equipment  industry.  The 
new  president  heads  an  association  repre- 
senting more  than  80  percent  of  the  nation's 
$4  billion  construction  equipment  industry. 

PHILIP  V.  TARR,  '45,  is  the  newly-elected 
president  of  Metal  Powder  Industries 
Federation,  a  trade  group  representing  the 
metal  powder  producing  and  consuming  in- 
dustries. He  is  executive  vice  president  of 
Midwest  Sintered  Products  Corp.  of  River- 
dale,  III.,  a  company  which  he  helped  to 
found  19  years  ago.  He  has  served  as  presi- 
dent of  the  Powder  Metallurgy  Part  Associa- 
tion and  was  on  the  Board  of  Governors  of 
the  Metal  Powder  Industries  Federation. 


Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  ANDREW  SHULTZ  is 
employed  by  Stepan  Chemical  Co.,  North- 
field,  III.  .  .  .  RICHARD  B.  WILSON  is  a 
district  staff  engineer  at  Long  Beach  Unified 
School,  Long  Beach,  Calif. 


1940 


HOWARD  L.  ANDERSON  works  for  W.  W. 
Clark  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  LEWIS  F. 
BEHRENT,  who  is  self-employed,  is  located 
in  Issaquah,  Wash. . . .  WARREN  C.  HOTCH- 
KISS  serves  as  a  self-employed  manufac- 
turers' representative  in  Chicago  Heights, 
III.  ...  J.  STANLEY  McKEOWN  has  retired. 
He  was  with  Texaco  Research  Center, 
Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  B.MILLER  is 
with  IVI  Travel,  Inc.,  Deerfield,  III. 


1941 


National  Blank  Book  Co.,  Inc.,  Holyoke, 
Mass.,  employs  SYLVAN  A.  GENTHNER.  .  .  . 
Reverend  EDWARD  G.  JACOBER  is  with 
the  Christian  &  Missionary  Alliance  Mission, 
Dayton,    Ohio.    Previously    he    was    doing 


missionary  work  in  Gujarat,  India.  .  .  . 
WALTER  S.  KNIGHT  works  for  Wyman- 
Gordon  Co.,  Harvey,  III.  .  .  .  F.  WILLIAM 
ZIEGLER  is  now  assistant  vice  president, 
Domestic  Communications  Satellite  System, 
for  Western  Union  in  Upper  Saddle  River, 
N.J. 


1942 


ALLAN  G.  ANDERSON  is  assistant  to  the 
director  of  operations  in  the  Quincy  (Mass.) 
Shipbuilding  Division  of  General  Dynamics. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  B.  DODGE  works  for  All  State 
Engineering,  Trenton,  N.J.  .  .  .  HERBERT 
M.  GOODMAN,  president  of  Herbert  En- 
gineering, Worcester,  was  recently  awarded 
a  Professional  Manager  Citation  from  the 
international  headquarters  of  the  Society  for 
Advancement  of  Management.  He  was 
awarded  the  citation  because  of  his  contri- 
bution to  high  business  ethics,  his  effective 
use  of  scientific  managerial  principles  in  the 
management  of  his  business,  and  his  personal 
contributions  to  civic  affairs.  Goodman  has 
served  as  a  director,  vice  president,  and 
president  of  the  Worcester  chapter  of  the 
Society  for  Advancement  of  Management. 
.  .  .  VICTOR  H.  THULIN  currently  holds  the 
position  of  assistant  research  consultant  at 

U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  Monroeville,  Pa JOHN 

J.  TYNER,  who  has  been  with  Dow  Corning 
Co.  for  27  years,  was  recently  promoted  to 
West  Coast  general  manager  with  offices  in 
Alhambra,  Calif.  ...  DR.  FRANK  T.  B0- 
DURTHA  was  co-author  of  "Discharge  of 
Heavy  Gases  From  Relief  Valves",  an  article 
which  appeared  in  the  April  issue  of  Chemical 
Engineering  Progress.  Presently  he  is  a 
senior  consultant  in  air  pollution  abatement. 
Engineering  Service  Division,  DuPont  Co., 
Wilmington,  Del. 


1943 


AVERILLS.  KEITH  now  works  at  New  Jersey 
Bell  Telephone  Co.,  Newark,  N.J.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  S.  ROBINSON  is  with  Futurous, 
Inc.,  North  Brookfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  DONALD 
M.  ROUN  serves  as  vice  president-sales  dis- 
tribution, at  National  Union  Electric  Corp., 
Greenwich,  Conn. 

The  supercritical  wing  which  was  recently 
developed  by  DR.  RICHARD  T.  WHIT- 
COMB,  '43,  in  wind  tunnels  at  NASA's 
Langley  Research  Center,  Hampton,  Va., 
and  tested  at  NASA's  Flight  Research  Center, 
Edwards,  Calif.,  has  also  been  undergoing 
commercial  development  at  the  LearAvia 
Corporation,  Reno,  Nevada.  Actual  construc- 
tion of  the  first  wing  that  will  be  used  on  a 
commercial  aircraft  is  slated  for  later  this 
year. 

According  to  William  P.  Lear,  developer  of 
the  Learjet,  the  wing  will  be  capable  of  in- 
creasing the  cruise  speed  of  the  Learjet 
almost  10  percent  and  the  range  by  ap- 
proximately 20  percent  without  any  increase 
in  power  or  gross  weight. 

Other  aircraft  companies  have  indicated 
their  interest  in  the  new  airfoil  shape  for 
possible  business  jet  aircraft  design. 

The  planform  shape  of  the  supercritical 
wing  tested  at  the  Flight  Research  Center  is 
I  representative  of  a  wing  that  would  be  used 
on  a  commercial  jet  transport.  Over  75 
flights  have  been  made  during  the  past  two 
years  and  have  successfully  demonstrated 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


that  the  new  airfoil  does  permit  the  aircraft 
to  operate  approximately  15  percent  more 
efficiently. 

The  new  airfoil  shape  incorporated  in  the 
supercritical  wing  design  has  a  relatively 
flat  upper  surface  as  opposed  to  a  curved 
surface  on  the  top  of  a  conventional  wing. 
This  feature  delays  the  formation  of  super- 
sonic shock  waves  which  increase  aerody- 
namic drag  and  permits  the  aircraft  to  cruise 
at  a  higher  speed. 

Additional  flight  testing  of  the  super- 
critical wing  concept  will  be  done  at  NASA's 
Flight  Research  Center  using  a  variable- 
sweep  wing  F-111  aircraft  modified  to  in- 
corporate the  new  wing  design.  These  flights 
will  study  the  application  of  the  super- 
critical wing  and  its  effects  on  maneuver- 
ability and  performance  of  a  military  aircraft. 
First  flights  in  this  joint  NASA-USAF  pro- 
gram are  expected  later  this  summer. 


1944 


WILLIAM  BROWN,  JR.,  has  a  position  with 
the  Marian  County  Health  Association, 
Indianapolis,  Indiana.  .  .  .  CHARLES  S. 
COOPER  was  recently  named  chief  engineer 
of  Lawson-Hemphill,  Inc.,  Central  Falls,  R.I., 
developers  and  manufacturers  of  the  Fiber 
Analysis  Knitter.  He  was  formerly  senior 
electronic  engineer  with  Scott  Testers, 
Providence,  and  he  became  acting  chief  en- 
gineer for  Scott  in  1  970  when  it  was  a  divi- 
sion of  the  Bendix  Corp.  Later  he  was  senior 
instrument  engineer  for  Precision  Scientific 
Co.,  Chicago,  which  purchased  Scott  Testers 
from  Bendix....  EINAR  A.  ERIKSEN  serves 
as  plant  manager  at  Waldes  Kohinoor,  Inc., 
Long  Island  City,  N.Y. . . .  Presently  EVERETT 
M.  JOHNSON  is  assistant  manager-program 
coordination  and  planning,  Texaco,  Inc.,  Re- 
search Center,  Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  .  SIDNEY 
STAYMAN  works  as  a  sales  representative 
for  Carrier  Container  Corp.,  Long  Island  City, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  GEORGE  E.  TITTERTON  is  a  self- 
employed  sales  consultant  in  Chicago, 
Illinois. 


1945 


Myers  '45 


DR.  JOSEPH  D.  CARRABINO,  professor  of 
management  in  the  Graduate  School  of 
Management,  UCLA,  Los  Angeles,  is  board 
chairman  of  Engineering  and  Management 
Sciences  Corp.  (EMSCO).  He  is  also  a  direc- 
tor of  Consyne  Corporation,  Glendora,  Calif., 
a  fully  integrated  manufacturer  and  marketer 
of  products  for  the  health  sciences.  .  .  .  DR. 
CARL  C.  CLARK,  chairman  of  the  Life 
Sciences  Department  at  WPI,  was  the  author 
of  "The  Agent-Hazardous  Products  and  the 
Prediction  of  Injuries,"  in  the  February  issue 
of  ASSE Journal.  He  is  also  vice  president  of 
The  Worcester  Community  Television  Coun- 
cil. .  .  .  ALBERT  F.  MYERS  has  been  ap- 
pointed vice  president-group  executive  of 
Lear  Siegler,  Inc.'s  furniture  operations  in 
Birmingham,  Mich.  He  was  president  of  the 
LSI  Borroughs  Division  for  the  past  three 
years.  In  his  new  position,  Myers  will  have 
the  presidents  of  six  LSI  furniture  operation 
divisions  reporting  to  him.  He  joined  Bor- 
roughs Division  as  manufacturing  manager 
in  1965  and  later  became  vice  president, 
general  manager,  and  president  of  the  divi- 
sion. Presently  he  is  serving  as  the  industrial 
chairman  of  the  United  Way  Fund  Campaign 
in  Kalamazoo,  Mich....  FRANK  J.  STEFANOV 
currently  serves  as  assistant  manager-roller 
products  at  The  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington, 

Conn The  Rev.  EDWARD  I.  SWANSON 

was  recently  honored  with  a  Freedoms 
Foundation  Award  for  his  work  as  editor  of 
The  Link,  the  magazine  of  the  General  Com- 
mission on  Chaplains  and  Armed  Forces 
Personnel.  He  was  reappointed  as  staff 
executive  of  the  commission.  Since  1971 
Rev.  Swanson  has  served  as  director  of 
publications.  The  General  Commission  and 
The  Link  also  received  Freedoms  Founda- 
tions Awards. 

ROGER  PERRY's  Naval  Reserve  Public 
Affairs  Company  has  made  a  clean  sweep  of 
public  relations  awards  for  their  planning 
and  handling  of  a  special  events  program  for 
teen-age  guests  from  all  over  the  nation  for 
the  June  1972  turnaround  cruise  of  the 
USS  Constitution  in  Boston  Harbor.  Awards 
included  a  George  Washington  Medal  from 
the  Freedoms  Foundation,  the  Silver  Anvil 
Award  from  the  Public  Relations  Society  of 
America  and  the  Boston  Publicity  Club's 
first  Super  Bellringer  Award.  Roger,  who  is 
a  reserve  commander,  is  Director  of  Public 
Relations  at  WPI. 


1946 


PETER  J.  FORD,  the  owner  of  P.  J.  Ford 
Co.,  Worcester,  is  now  retired.  .  .  .  THEO- 
DORE E.  GAZDA  currently  serves  as  a  proj- 
ect manager  for  Arthur  G.  McKee  &  Co., 
Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  The  DONALD  H. 
GILMORES  have  returned  from  Antigua, 
BWI,  where  they  celebrated  their  25th 
wedding  anniversary  aboard  the  schooner 
"Fantome"  cruising  and  touring  the  Lee- 
ward-Windward Islands.  Mr.  Gilmore  is 
with  Rodney  Hunt  Co.,  Orange,  Mass.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  R.  GROGAN,  dean  of  under- 
graduate studies  at  WPI,  has  been  reap- 
pointed to  a  three-year  term  on  the  Worcester 
Diocesan  Board  of  Education.  Last  spring  he 
was  named  an  honorary  Colonel  by  the  WPI 
ROTC  battalion  in  recognition  of  his  con- 
tributions to  the  student  body. 

ERNEST  S.  HAYECK  has  been  unani- 
mously confirmed  as  a  full-time  judge  in 
Worcester  Central  District  Court  following 
his  appointment  by  Governor  Francis 
Sargent.  For  the  past  three  years  he  has 
served  as  a  part-time  special  justice  for  the 
court.  Judge  Hayeck  is  only  one  of  two  WPI 
alumni  known  to  be  appointed  as  judges. 
(The  other  is  JOSEPH  S.  VIROSTECK,  '33, 
special  justice  at  the  Second  District  Court 
in  Uxbridge,  Mass.)  Previously  Judge 
Hayeck  was  with  Mullaney  &  Hayeck, 
Worcester.  ...  J.  KENNETH  PETRY  has  re- 
tired. He  had  been  operating  his  own 
contracting  firm. 


1947 


DR.  MORRELL  H.  COHEN,  Louis  Block 
Professor  of  Physics  and  Theoretical  Biology 
at  the  University  of  Chicago,  was  awarded 
an  honorary  doctor  of  science  degree  from 
WPI  in  June.  From  1968  until  1971  he  was 
director  of  the  University's  James  Franck 
Institute. 

ERNEST  E.  KIMBALL  is  a  senior  engineer 
at  Harvard  University,  HMS  Power  Plant, 
Boston.  .  .  .  PAUL  D.  O'DONNELL  has  been 
named  general  manager  of  the  Westinghouse 
Specialty  Metals  Division  at  Blairsville,  Pa. 
Formerly  he  was  director  of  headquarters 
manufacturing  services.  He  joined  Westing- 
house  in  1954  and  has  held  a  number  of 
managerial  positions,  mostly  in  the  Pitts- 
burgh area.  In  1971  he  served  as  national 
president  of  the  American  Institute  of  In- 
dustrial Engineers.  He  has  also  lectured  on 
production  and  industrial  topics  at  North- 
eastern University  and  the  University  of 
Pittsburgh. 


1948 


JOHN  J.  CONCORDIA  is  with  GTE  Sylvania, 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  JOHN  M  PETRILLO  is 
a  marketing  representative  for  IBM,  Wal- 
tham, Mass  .  .  DANIEL  H.  SHEINGOLD, 
technical  marketing  manager  for  Analog  De- 

Inc,  was  the  author  of  "Approximate 
Analog  Functions  with   a   Low-Cost  Multi 

divider"  which  appeared  in  the   Feb 
ruary  5  issue  of  EDN   ...  DR.  ALBERT  H. 


Mike  Curtis'  low-flying  airplane 

The  F-1 1 1 ,  the  controversial  aircraft  which  has  been  described  as  full  of  bugs  by  the  popular 
press,  actually  has  been  doing  a  very  effective  job  according  to  F.  A.  (Mike)  CURTIS,  JR., 
'48,  in  a  recent  letter  to  Prof.  Emeritus  Kenneth  Merriam.  Curtis,  who  is  Director  of  Product 
Engineering  at  the  Fort  Worth  (Tex.)  Operation  of  Convair,  General  Dynamics,  is  concerned 
with  the  engineering  aspects  of  ali  F-1 11  and  FB-111  programs.  He  is  also  concerned  with 
the  engineering  aspects  of  contracts,  budgets,  and  manpower  allocations,  although  he  is 
primarily  involved  personally  with  technical  problems.  Along  with  his  regular  job,  he  is  deputy 
to  the  vice  president  of  research  and  engineering.  He  has  made  a  deep  personal  commitment 
to  the  F-1 1 1  programs. 

He  indicates  that  in  1968  it  was  discovered  that  a  serious  fatigue  problem  existed  which 
could  have  limited  the  aircraft  and  that  there  was  a  material  flaw  in  one  steel  forging,  but  that 
eventually  both  problems  were  solved.  "These  two  events  got  me  deeply  into  tests,  analysis, 
etc.,  of  high  heat  treat  steel  and  I  still  wander  around  with  a  pocket  microscope  acting  like  a 
metallurgist,"  he  says.  "It  takes  me  back  to  the  strength  of  material  course  I  took  at  WPI." 

The  testing  paid  off.  At  present  there  are  about  500  aircraft  in  fleet  operation  and  the  early 
Tactical  Air  Command  aircraft,  the  F-111A's,  did  very  well  in  North  Vietnam  last  fall.  They 
flew  into  the  Hanoi-Haiphong  area  at  night  at  200  feet  on  automatic  terrain  following  radar 
and  did  a  very  effective  job.  They  kept  the  pressure  on  the  enemy  24  hours  a  day  including 
the  monsoon  season  when  other  aircraft  couldn't  fly.  The  planes  are  based  at  Takhli  about 
90  miles  north  of  Bangkok  and  are  capable  of  flying  over  rugged,  steep  terrain. 

Not  only  has  the  aircraft  proved  itself  on  the  job,  it  also  has  met  stringent  contract  require- 
ments. "With  slight  changes  in  local  design  and  with  the  addition  of  about  ten  pounds  of 
weight  to  the  airplane,  we  not  only  met  the  ten-year  life  span  stipulated  in  the  contract,  we 
also  demonstrated  by  fatigue  testing  that  the  life  span  of  the  aircraft  could  extend  up  to  25 
years  under  the  most  severe  spectrum  that  could  be  utilized,"  Curtis  recalls. 

In  spite  of  the  problems  that  he  has  run  into  in  his  profession,  notably  with  the  F-1 11  pro- 
grams, Curtis  declares,  "If  I  had  to  do  it  all  over  again,  I  would  still  pick  aeronautical  engineer- 
ing. It  leads  to  tremendous  challenge  in  management,  while  providing  a  great  sense  of  ac- 
complishment. The  business  has  its  difficult  sides.  It  is  very  excruciating  when  you  lose  an 
airplane  and  the  crew,  particularly  if  the  cause  was  a  design  item  you  think  you  could  have 
done  better  on." 

But  there  are  victories,  too.  The  F-111's,  for  example,  managed  to  weather  bad  luck  and 
bad  publicity.  Ultimately,  reports  from  veteran  pilots  who  flew  them,  filtered  back  to  Curtis — 
and  the  rewards  of  his  profession  were  spotlighted  once  again  in  the  successes  of  the  Air 
Force  team. 

One  pilot  said  that  the  aircraft  succeeds  where  a  high-altitude  bomber  cannot  because  of 
its  TFR  capabilities.  It  can  come  and  go  before  any  radar  or  human  eye  can  frustrate  it.  An- 
other was  convinced  that  he  wouldn't  mind  flying  the  One-Eleven  through  the  Grand  Canyon 
at  night — below  the  rim!  Still  another  indicated  that  the  airplane  made  him  feel  like  he  was  the 
world's  greatest  natural  pilot. 

Air  Force  Col.  William  R.  Nelson,  who  was  the  commanding  officer  of  the  F-1 1 1  's  in  South- 
east Asia,  reported  at  a  recent  press  conference  that  the  swing-wing  jet  proved  to  be  the 
most  survivable  attack  plane  in  the  war.  "Between  late  September  and  mid-March,"  he  said, 
"The  F-111's  flew  more  than  4,000  (single)  combat  sorties.  The  loss  of  six  planes  (reported 
in  that  period)  produces  a  loss  rate  of  only  .1  5  percent.  No  other  attack  plane  in  the  war  has 
come  even  close  to  this  survival  record." 

However,  it  is  not  only  Curtis  and  the  veteran  pilots  who  believe  in  the  F-1 1 1 .  The  Russians 
singled  out  the  aircraft  for  discussion  at  the  SALT  talks,  where  it  became  quite  evident  that 
they  did  not  like  it  one  little  bit.  And  the  recent  enemy  in  Vietnam?  They  hadn't  heard  that 
the  American  press  had  written  off  the  F-1 11  as  "buggy."  For  them,  it  did  exactly  what  it 
had  been  designed  to  do.  After  their  first  encounter  with  the  F-1 11  they  promptly  tagged  it 
"Whispering  Death." 


1949 


Taylor  '49 


SOLOWAY  has  been  appointed  acting 
director  of  the  Graduate  School  of  Pharmacy 
and  Allied  Health  Professions  at  Northeastern 
University.  He  joined  the  faculty  in  1  965  as  a 
chemistry  lecturer  and  in  1968  was  ap- 
pointed a  full  professor.  Previously  he  was 
engaged  in  research  at  Massachusetts 
General  Hospital,  Harvard  Medical  School, 
and  Eastman  Kodak  Co.  For  two  years  he 
was  a  post-doctoral  fellow  with  Sloan- 
Kettering  Institute  for  Cancer  Research. 


Currently  EUGENE  S.  BRIGGS  serves  as 
general  manager  at  Scott  Midland,  Alden, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  LOUIS  J.  DOUGALL  works  for 
Honeywell,  Inc.  .  .  .  DONALD  TAYLOR  was 
recently  named  vice  president-operations  of 
Rexnord,  Inc.,  Milwaukee,  Wis.  He  joined 
Nordberg  Mfg.  Co.  in  1 969  as  executive  vice 
president.  He  had  been  president  of  the 
George  J.  Meyer  Division  of'ATO,  Inc.  In  his 
new  position  he  will  be  responsible  for  the 
Nordberg  Machinery  Group  which  has  five 
operations  in  three  states  and  Canada  and 
eight  worldwide.  Taylor,  who  is  a  trustee  of 
the  Machinery  and  Allied  Products  Institute 
and  a  member  of  ASME,  is  also  a  registered 
professional  engineer. 


1950 


1953 


GLENN  E.  FROM  is  now  senior  program 
development  engineer  for  Lockheed  Air- 
craft, Burbank,  Calif.  .  .  .  Currently  BART- 
LETT  H.  HASTINGS  is  field  director  for  Boy 
Scouts  of  America,  Bucks  County  Council, 
Inc.,  Doylestown,  Pa.  .  .  .  KENNETH  W. 
PARSONS  is  coordinator  of  employee  rela- 
tions at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 


1951 


LEON  H.  BASSETT,  vice  president  of  Skil 
Corporation,  Chicago,  is  on  a  special  one- 
year  assignment  in  Japan.  He  expects  to 
return  to  this  country  in  the  fall.  . .  .  Presently 
DEXTER  E.  CATE  serves  as  a  systems  en- 
gineer   for    International     Packings    Corp., 

Bristol,  N.H R.  ROSS  CHAPIN,  JR.,  has 

a  position  with  Beecham,  Inc.,  Piscataway, 
N.J.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  CUNNEEN  is  a  con- 
sultant with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  D.  FULMER,  JR.,  was  recently 
appointed  manager  of  mechanical  and  nu- 
clear sales  for  the  General  Electric  Com- 
pany's Installation  and  Service  Engineering 
Department.  He  is  responsible  for  planning 
and  coordinating  the  department's  overall 
service  sales  effort  for  mechanical  and  nu- 
clear products.  In  1956  he  joined  GE  as  a 
product  planner  in  the  medium  induction 
motor  department.  In  1970,  following  a 
series  of  promotions,  he  became  manager  of 
logistic  support  planning  for  l&SE.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  F.  HOVEY,  JR.,  works  in  the  North 
Communications  Area,  Griffiss  AFB,  Rome, 

N.Y W.  EVANS  JOHNSON  is  president 

of  St.  Johns  Chemical  Corp.,  Jacksonville, 
Fla.  ...  LEO  E.  LEMERE,  JR.,  currently 
serves  as  computer  services  manager  at  The 
Badger  Co.,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
KIRKE  LEONARD  is  with  Glen  Mar,  Inc., 
Hermosa  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  A.  W.  (Bill) 
LINDER  is  on  the  technical  staff  of  Bose 
Corporation,  Framingham,  Mass.  Bose  manu- 
factures high  fidelity  products.  Previously 
Linder  was  with  H.  H.  Scott,  Inc.,  Maynard, 
Mass.  .  .  .  PHILIP  MICHELMAN  is  now  a 
sales  representative  for  Mobil  Chemical  Co. 
(Films  Dept),  Macedon,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
W.  RIPLEY  works  as  a  plant  supervisor  at 

Xcel  Corp.,  Newark,  N.J LAWRENCE  F. 

SCINTO  is  with  Fitzpatrick,  Cella,  Harper, 
and  Scinto,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  ALFRED  J. 
WHEELER  has  a  position  with  Raytheon  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROGER  E.  WYE  is  vice 
president  of  engineering  and  program  man- 
agement for  the  Litcom  Division  of  Litton 
Industries,  Melville,  N.Y. 


1952 


Married:  GEORGE  F.  WHITTLE  and  Mrs. 
Georgia  Hession  Flanagan  in  Cohasset, 
Massachusetts  on  April  29.  Mrs.  Whittle  is 
an  art  teacher  at  Cohasset  High  School.  Her 
husband,  a  commander  in  the  Naval  Air  Re- 
serve, is  self-employed  as  a  manufacturers' 
representative. 

ROCCO  R.  DiVERDI  works  at  Raytheon 
Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  JEAN  T.  FARLEY 
has  joined  West  Michigan  Hydraulics  in 
Kalamazoo. 


ROBERT  T.  BAXTER,  SIM,  works  for  Steel- 
Fab,  Inc.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  R. 
BLACK  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at  MSI 
Industries,  Inc.,  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  .  RICHARD 

A.  DAVIS  has  been  appointed  director  of 
manufacturing  for  the  Thermos  Division, 
King-Seeley  Thermos  Co.,  Norwich,  Conn. 
He  will  assume  responsibility  for  all  produc- 
tion operations,  manufacturing  engineering, 
industrial  engineering,  materials  control,  and 
quality  assurance  at  the  Laurel  Hill  and  Taft- 
ville  plants.  Since  1953  he  has  been  asso- 
ciated with  the  General  Electric  Co.,  his  most 
recent  assignment  having  been  as  plant 
manager  for  the  GE  Portland  (Me.)  Power 
Generation  Products  facility.  He  takes  to 
Thermos  a  career  of  manufacturing  manage- 
ment, process  development,  glass  and  vacu- 
um technology,  facilities  engineering,  and 
high  volume  production.  .  .  .  EDWARD  H. 
DIAMOND  is  currently  employed  by  Grum- 
man Corp.,  Bethpage,  N.Y LCDR  DAVID 

B.  HATHAWAY  is  now  assistant  public 
works  officer  (U.S.  Navy)  at  the  Boston 
Naval  Shipyard,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  D. 
ALDEN  JOHNSON  is  seeking  the  three-year 
term  on  the  expanded  school  committee  in 


a  design  engineer  for  Waters  Mfg.,  Sudbury, 
Mass. 


1955 


HUGH  C.  BELL  is  president  of  Dataline  Corp., 
New  Canaan,  Conn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  F. 
CROOK  works  for  G  &  0  Mfg.  Co.,  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  NORMAN  M.  LAWRENCE 
is  with  Curtiss-Wright,  Wood  Ridge,  N.J.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  C.  LINDSTROM  currently  serves 
as  chief,  project  quality  engineering,  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
MARTIN  A.  RAFFERTY  is  employed  by 
Essofield-Technical,  Esso  Standard  Libya, 
Inc.,  in  Tripoli,  Libya.  ...  DR.  WILLIAM  R. 
TAYLOR  was  a  recent  guest  speaker  at  a 
meeting  of  the  Connecticut  Association  for 
Children  with  Perceptual  Learning  Disabili- 
ties. A  child  psychiatrist,  he  is  an  associate 
professor  in  the  department  of  psychiatry  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  School  of 
Medicine.  He  is  also  a  diplomate  of  the 
American  Board  of  Psychiatry  and  Neurology. 
.  .  .  JOHN  W.  WELSH  works  as  an  electrical 
engineer  for  Digital  Equipment,  Maynard, 
Mass. 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Sturbridge,  Mass.  He  is  employed  as  a  man- 
ager by  IBM  Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  MANUEL 
A.  LOPEZ  has  retired.  He  was  with  Pralven- 
Polly,  Caracas,  Venezuela.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A. 
PRATT  works  for  Kearny  Co.,  Tucker, 
Georgia. 


1956 


1954 


TUL  R.  FREDERICKSON  is  with  C.  B.  Blair, 
Rutland,  Mass.  .  .  .  Olin  Corp.,  Stamford, 
Conn.,  employs  GERARD  E.  GRISE.  .  .  . 
DAVID  L.  NICKERSON  works  for  Korsil 
Corp.,  Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  O. 
ROBINSON  is  regional  operations  manager 
for  SSI  Trailer  Corp.,  Vernon,  Calif.  .  .  .  WIL- 
LIAM SCHOENEMANN  serves  as  director- 
manufacturing  for  Microform  Data  Systems, 
Mt.  View,  Calif HUGH  K.  TUFTS,  JR.,  is 


ALAN  M.  ADAMSON  is  a  generation  studies 
engineer  at  New  York  Power  Pool,  Schenec- 
tady, N.Y.  .  .  .  DAVID  S.  BECKER  works  for 
Sylvania  Electric  Products,  Inc.,  Waltham, 
Mass HOWARD  H.  BROWN  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Boston  University  .  .  .  LEB- 
BEUS  S.  CASE,  SIM,  is  employed  at  Brand- 
Rex,  Willimantic,  Conn.  .  .  .  BERNARD  R. 
DANTI  is  with  Millipore  Corp.,  Bedford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  FOISIE,  who  is  self- 
employed  as  a  management  resources  con- 
sultant, resides  in  West  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
The  Rev.  FRANK  H.  GROSS  serves  as  execu- 
tive secretary  of  the  New  Hampshire  Council 
of  Churches.  ...  DR.  RAYMOND  R.  HAG- 
GLUND  has  been  promoted  from  associate 
professor  to  professor  in  the  Mechanical 
Engineering  Department  at  WPI.  .  .  .  ROY  F. 


STONl  is  ,t  paitnoi  in  Colonial  Data  Systems 

Mass    Hi-  sim\ os  .is  .1  data 

.   t.ini  HARR\   It  NNE'i 

.is  horn  appointed  manage!    Extruded 
Product*   toi  tho  nowl\  formed  \Cl  I  COfpO 

ration     Now.uk     N  J     a    format    product 
managei  witti  Colanoso  Plastics  Company 
y   served  with  Shield  VA.uo    Inc 

\-w  Chemical  Co  :  Dv\  M 

WIOT  is  ■  st.itt  consultant  tt  NUS  Corp 

■  .illo    Md 


1957 


SALV  -.oiks  Km  :: 

insula:  .  nestw     Mass 

hoon  rtamad  a 
iooi   rot    N 

■  .u\  ot  Now  {  nglend 
Westboro    Mass    He  has 
been  with  |  -d  is  a 

onomooi  Cui 

N  •  Al  AN    J 

ot  tho  technical 

A  \ihoim 
(I  AN  is  .in 
ItiCS   .it    Los 

I 

A 

Umveisitv 

.V    Woieos 

■ 
•     \\ 

S  v-   JOHN 
! 

.out  ot 
d  mv 
■ 

leering    mana. 
I  MS 

w.is  awarded  r-    •  rank         Mass  |    Rotary 

i 

tart  >t*»s  he  was  a  member  of 

■ 

■ 


Ten/ 


f>a/rv  •  58 


1958 


' ' 


NORMANO  l    Bi  HARD  has  hoon  emp 

Sen    a  Co    Burlington   Mass 

.  .  DONALD  W.  Bt  AN    corporate  products 

.oi    ot    Jamesbury     Corp      Woreostoi 

was  tho  author  ot  tho  article  "How  to  Select 

High  Peitotmaivo  \al\os     which  appealed 

m  the  February.   - 

>\  LLIAM  S.  I  s  cur- 

diroctoi  ot  operations  foi  Eleetroohne 
division   ot   Bacton   Dickinson   &   Co 
JOSEPH  L   CH  FN  AIL  has 
bean  appointed   vice   president    marketing 
and    sales    by     Microsystems    International 
Ltd     in  Canada    Ho  joined  the  company   in 
and   served   as   diroctoi     market   and 
Ml\   he  is  located  at  the  Ottawa 
-  \    he    was    with    S. 
Eloctnc  Co    Wo 

international  marketing  sales.  .  .  . 

s  \  CHRISTQ 

Paper   Corp     w  Mass.   .   .   .    DR. 

MMINS  recently  gave  a  talk  en- 

neeting 

.  ,-s  held  at  . 

on  the  application  ot  metallic 

a  degraded  biostmet.  .  v 

\ 
for  engineering   in   New    England  rot   the 

I  •  orbes  He  .-. 
respo :••  •  oects  ot  the 

its  in 
N 

Ha  has  been 
PI  II  R  C    DIRK 
SEN   . 

■ 

He  is  a  legiaten 

.:    >ooi  a-\-!  a  Wosthoio  so  oct-'i'a'i  JOHN 

.     WIGHT 
.'•TE   Needh 

an  In- 

N 
•J    ^ 


PAINTER  is  with  Cmmioi.iI  Radio  Co.,  Con- 
COld  Mass  KENNETH  J.  ROME  recently 
opened  his  own  law  practice  on  Madison 
Avenue  in  Now  York  City.  .  .  .  CARL  A. 
STRAND  woiks  as  plant  managei  at  Bea- 
da.vlod  Oakland  Calif.  ,  .  .  Simplatrol 
Products  division  ot  Pormsprag  Co.,  Au- 
bum  Mass  amploys  ALADAR  SZEIDLER, 
SIM  .  .  .  TENNYSON  T.  WANG  is  with  TRW 
Systems  operating  group  ot  TRW  Inc 
Redondo  Roach  Caht  .  .  J.  CLIFFORD 
WIERSMA  is  a  solt  employ ed  small  business 
consultant  in  Indianapolis  Indiana.  .  .  . 
PETER  J.  ZANINI.  JR  woiks  lot  Toch 
Systems  Corp    Thomaston  Conn. 


1959 


DR.  PAUL  A.  B0NC2YK  is  a  somoi  research 
scientist  with  United  Aneiati  Research  Labs, 

Hartford  Conn.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  J. 
COSTELLO  has  been  named  the  now 
marketing  managei  roi  chemicals  of  Union 
Carbide  Corporation  marketed  to  manufac- 
turers .-'  .-.  rso  >a  uiir  detergent  chemical- 
specialty  and  refrigerant  products.  Ho  will 
direct  long  and  shoit  range  market  planning 
toi  the  products  and  services  winch  the 
company  provides  roi  those  producers  S  k  i 
joining  the  compan\  in  1959,  Costeilo  has 
soivod  in  vanous  sales  capacities  Pnoi  to 
his  present  post  he  was  sales  managei  foi 
the  same  chemical  group  .  .  MORGAN  S. 
el>  who  received  his  MBA  from  Utah 
State  Umversih  last  year  and  his  MSCE  in 
Watei  s  from  Utah  this  yew  woiks 

as  a  senioi  civil  engines*  in  the  Department 
ol  Environmental  Protection    S:.;:;-  of 

cut    in   Hartford  .   anthonn    e 

ENGSTROM  has  joined  Grubfa  &  Ellis  Co.. 
San  Rataol  Calif  as  a  salesman  .  .  . 
C  HADES  is  with  GTE  Syl- 
vania  in  Needham  Heights  Mass.  .  .  . 
ARTHUR  HALPRIN  is  at' the  University   ot 

ware  in  Now.uk     .  .  ROBERT  W.  HOAG 
serves  as  a  senior  project  angineei   with 
Texas  Instruments   Attloboro   Mass   :;. 
Ins   wite     Mary,   recently    returned    from    a 
combination   bus  pleasure  trip  to 

I  whetethev  visited  Pans   Ams:. 
and  London 

PHILIP  F   RAMSEN  has  been  named  chief 

ttaM  in  if-.  :o  De- 

'  Mental  Health    It  is  his  n  S 
Federal  reimburse 
.-'  the  mental  health  department 
and  its  facilities  I  the  state 

GEORC:  SCHRI   HI  -i  Ray- 

Vass  PAUL   E. 

SIEGMUND  itlv  pronv 

m  the  Op-  • 
tical  Products  D  i 
Corpora:      I    So.  :'•:- 

'oi  tho  E\  Master* 

piece    ^      Fused    Multito. 
. 

*  he  servee  ction  man.-. 

:h  the 

.'.  :  \ 
,\ 
■      v  v 


1960 


DR.  ROBERT  A.  CONDRATE,  associate 
professor  of  spectroscopy  at  the  New  York 
State  College  of  Ceramics  at  Alfred  Univer- 
sity, has  been  selected  for  inclusion  in  the 
1973  edition  of  International  Scholars  Direc- 
tory, a  standard  reference  published  in 
Strasbourg,  France.  .  .  .  HARRY  F.  Di 
ZOGLIO  is  a  consulting  engineer  (Harry  F. 
Di  Zoglio,  P.E.)  in  Foster,  R.I.  .  .  .  PAUL  J. 
DOYLE,  JR.,  has  joined  AMRL,  Watertown, 
Mass.  .  .  .  FRANK  A.  DROMS,  JR.,  is  assist- 
ant manager  operational  audit  at  LTV  Elec- 
trosystems.  Inc.,  Dallas,  Texas.  .  .  .  EARL  G. 
ERICKSON  works  as  an  equipment  engineer 
for  Warner  &  Swasey  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  J.  FIRLA,  JR.,  a  systems  engineer 
for  IBM,  is  currently  working  in  Croydon, 
England DAVID  B.  HALEY  has  employ- 
ment with  Squier  &  Co.,  Monson,  Mass.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  A.  KERR  holds  the  post  of  chief  of 
structural  analysis  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Air- 
craft, East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  F. 
KIRKPATRICK  is  with  Blue  Cross-Blue 
Shield,  Concord,  N.H. 

ARTHUR  J.  LoVETERE  has  been  ap- 
pointed marketing  manager  for  all  domestic 
areas  at  MacDermid  Incorporated,  Water- 
bury,  Conn.  His  responsibilities  will  be  the 
direction  of  sales,  product  management, 
sales  promotion,  and  advertising.  He  has 
been  with  the  company  since  1957.  Prior  to 
his  promotion,  he  was  technical  sales  repre- 
sentative, Philadelphia,  Pa.,  and  regional 
sales  manager  for  the  northeastern  region. . . . 
NORMAN  B.  MACK  is  president  of  Con- 
sumer Industries,  Inc.,  Little  Neck,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
LEONARD  G.  MARCOTTE  works  as  a  man- 
ager for  C&W  Fabrications,  Inc.,  Gardner, 
Mass.  .  .  .  BERNARD  F.  McKERNAN,  JR., 
was  re-elected  in  March  to  a  new  three-year 
term  on  the  school  committee  in  West  Boyl- 
ston,  Mass.  Last  year  he  served  as  chairman 
of  the  committee.  McKernan  is  vice  president 
of  Waldon  Construction,  Inc.,  Acton,  Mass., 
and  is  president  of  Wilmac  Co.,  Inc.,  a  newly 
formed  development  corporation.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently Major  ROBERT  B.  MULHOLLAND, 
JR.,  serves  as  a  contracting  officer  for  the 
U.S.  Army  Electronics  Command  in  Phila- 
delphia, Pa. 

Currently  MICHAEL  J.  O'TOOLE,  JR.,  is 
chief,  intergovernmental  group,  for  the  New 
York  State  Department  of  Environmental 
Conservation.  .  .  .  AN  AN  PANANANDA 
serves  in  the  Investigation  Division,  Depart- 
ment of  Customs,  Ministry  of  Finance, 
Klongtoey,  Bangkok,  Thailand.  .  .  .  HARRY 
F.  RAY  is  technical  services  and  distribution 
department  superintendent  at  Monsanto 
Company,  Bridgeport,  N.J.  ...  Major 
LEONARD  S.  STRZELECKI  serves  as  execu- 
tive officer  with  the  19th  Maintenance  Bat- 
talion, U.S.  Army.  He  resides  in  Giessen, 
Germany.  .  .  .  DONALD  A.  TAYLOR  is  proj- 
ect superintendent  at  Catalytic,  Inc.,  Joliet, 
III.  .  .  .  ELBERT  K.  WEAVER  works  as  a 
metallurgist  for  Wyman  Gordon  Co.,  North 
Grafton,  Mass. 


ROBERT  C    CRAWFORD  works  for  E.E.T., 

Inc.,  Scituate,  Mass DAVID  W.  CUFF  is  a 

project  engineer,  research  and  development, 
at  Cumberland  Engineering  Co.,  Providence, 
R.I.  .  .  .  ROBERT  M.  FITCH  is  currently  em- 
ployed by  Boston  Insulated  Wire,  Dorches- 
ter, Mass.  ...  DR.  JAY  A.  FOX  has  been 
chosen  as  a  nominee  for  the  Commanding 
Officer's  Scientific  Achievement  Award  by 
the  Military  Technology  Department  at  the 
Army  Mobility  Equipment  Research  and 
Development  Center,  Fort  Belvoir,  Va.  He 
was  a  member  of  a  two-man  team  recom- 
mended for  the  scientific  award  on  the  basis 
of  their  outstanding  research  in  the  complex 
phenomena  of  spallation  in  materials  when 
caused  by  short  pulse  laser  radiation  and 
hypervelocity  projectile  impact.  Their  achieve- 
ments have  significantly  advanced  the  state- 
of-the-art  in  the  spallation  area  and  have 
highlighted  the  potential  military  applications 
of  the  spallation  phenomena.  .  .  .  PRESTON 
W.  HALL,  SIM,  has  been  appointed  division 
manager  of  the  Knife  Division  of  Rexnord, 
Inc.,  with  plants  in  Maynard  and  Ottumwa, 
Iowa.  He  was  formerly  president  and  general 
manager  of  Hobbs  Mfg.  Co.,  Worcester,  a 
subsidiary  of  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp.  He 
is  past  president  of  the  Society  for  Advance- 
ment of  Management. 

ROBERT  P.  HEDLUND  teaches  at 
Doherty  Memorial  High  School,  Worcester. 
...  DR.  PETER  A.  HURWITZ  is  a  chemist  at 
Natick  Army  Labs,  Natick,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN 
W.  JOHNSON,  SIM,  works  for  Warner  & 

Swasey,  Worcester HAROLD  L.  JURIST 

is  manager  of  specials  engineering  for  IBM 

Corp.,  Manassas,  Va Presently  CHARLES 

R.  LEHTINEN  serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at 
The  Boeing  Co.,  Seattle,  Washington.  .  .  . 
MALCOLM  E.  LOW  has  started  his  own 
company,  Hitec  Corp.,  in  Gloucester,  Mass. 
.  .  .  FRANK  MARRA  has  joined  Four-Phase 
System,  Wakefield,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  L.  ST. 
,0NGE  now  works  for  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester. 


1961 


FRANCIS  A.  CICHOWSKI  is  supervisor  at 
General     Electric,     Plainville,    Conn.    .    .    . 


Fox  '61  Simmon  '62 


1962 

National  Cash  Register  Co.,  Dayton,  Ohio, 
employs  EDWARD  B.  ALLEN,  JR.,  as  a 
product  requirements  analyst.  .  .  .  ALBERT 
C.  ANDREWS  is  manager-production  con- 
trol for  the  range  department  at  General 
Electric  in  Columbia,  Md.  .  .  .  GEORGE  F. 
BASTIEN  works  as  an  engineering  super- 
visor at  Bechtel  Power  Corp.,  Gaithersburg, 

Md DR.  KEYREN  H.  COTTER  has  been 

appointed  president  of  Del  Research  Corp., 
Hellertown,  Pa.  Formerly  he  was  a  staff 
member  of  the  Aeronautical  Systems  Division 
of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  on  assignment  to  the 
C-5-A  Galaxy  aircraft  independent  structural 
review  team  at  the  Lockheed-Georgia  Co. 
Earlier  he  held  positions  at  the  Lockheed- 


California  Co.,  and  the  North  American  Rock- 
well Corp.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  DARGIE,  SIM, 
has  been  named  engineering  manager  in  the 
AO  Contact  Lens  Division  of  the  American 
Optical  Corporation,  Southbridge,  Mass.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  the  planning  and  de- 
velopment of  new  technologies  related  to 
the  manufacturing  of  soft  contact  lenses.  He 
joined  the  company  17  years  ago.  Formerly 
he  was  manager,  optical  process  technology. 

ANDREW  M.  EDELMAN  is  an  actuary 
with  Kwasha  Lipton,  Inc.,  Englewood  Cliffs, 
N.J.  .  .  .  GEORGE  H.  FORSBERG,  who  re- 
ceived his  MBA  from  the  University  of  West 
Florida  last  year,  now  works  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  Monsanto  Textiles  Co.,  Decatur, 
Ala. . . .  PAUL  F.  G  ELINAS  is  with  Tack  Band, 

Inc.,  Fitchburg,  Mass JOEL  L.  GORDON 

holds  the  position  of  special  assistant  to  the 
Secretary  of  Natural  Resources  in  San  Juan, 
Puerto  Rico.  .  .  .  Presently  ROBERT  H. 
GORETTI  is  manufacturing  engineering 
supervisor  at  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  Attle- 
boro,  Mass.  .  .  .  WALTER  W.  LUIKEY  is 
president  of  Hi  Standard  Engineering,  Wil- 
mington, Mass.  .  .  .  DR.  ROBERT  E.  MclN- 
TOSH,  JR.,  was  recently  promoted  to  the 
rank  of  professor  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts. In  1967  he  joined  the  department 
of  electrical  and  computer  engineering  as  an 
assistant  professor.  He  became  an  associate 
professor  in  1970.  Previously  he  was  a 
member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Tele- 
phone Laboratories,  Inc.,  North  Andover, 
Mass. 

JAMES  P.  PAQUETTE  serves  as  plant 
manager  for  Sterling  Container  Corp.,  Man- 
chaug,  Mass. .  . .  RICHARD  A.  SCOTT  works 

for  Wiltek,  Inc.,  Wilton,  Conn BRUCE  A. 

SIMMON  has  been  named  to  a  new  position 
as  market  planner  with  the  Dresser  Industries 
tool  group,  in  Chicago.  Previously  he  served 
as  manager,  market  statistics,  with  Bay  State 
Abrasives,  a  division  of  Dresser  Industries, 
Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  STANLEY  J. 
STRYCHAZ  holds  the  post  of  district  man- 
ager for  General  Appraisal  of  Canada  in 
Toronto,  Ontario.  ...  DR.  JOHN  K.  TIEN, 
speaking  before  the  American  Society  for 
Metals,  said  that  safety  cars  that  can  protect  a 
driver  in  a  50-mile-per-hour  crash  into  a 
solid  object  will  be  available  to  the  public  by 
the  1980's.  Dr.  Tien,  a  professor  of  metal- 
lurgy at  Columbia  University,  is  head  of  a 
Sloan  Foundation  project  on  safety  vehicles. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  P.  WILDER  works  as  a  market- 
ing representative  for  IBM,  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  H.  YORK  is  a  senior  engineer 
at  Harlan  Engineers,  San  Francisco,  Calif. 


1963 


Capt.  RICHARD  B.  ALLEN,  commander  of 
headquarters  company  at  Fort  Detrick,  Md., 
has  been  assigned  to  graduate  study  at 
Tulane  University  in  the  field  of  atomic 
physics.  He  is  the  only  non-West  Pointer 
assigned  for  this  advanced  study.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  V.  BEAULAC  serves  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  Raytheon  Company,  Wayland, 
Mass.  .  .  .  RICHARD  T.  DANN  is  assistant 
editor  of  Machine  Design  Magazine,  Cleve- 
land, Ohio.  .  .  .  CHARLES  R.  ELFREICH  is 
town  engineer  for  the  Town  of  Mamaroneck, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  ELWELL  works  for 
Grumman  Aerospace,  Bethpage,  N.Y.  .  .  . 


Good  Luck,  Coach! 


If  the  University  of  Nebraska  continues  its 
winning  ways  on  the  gridiron  (Orange  Bowl 
Champions  1971-73),  much  of  the  credit 
can  be  given  to  Frederick  "Rick"  Duval,  '61 , 
the  new  linebacker  coach  and  director  of 
recruiting  at  the  University. 

Duval  arrived  at  Lincoln  after  a  rewarding 
five-year  stint  as  receiver-quarterback  coach 
and  director  of  recruiting  at  the  University  of 
Colorado  in  Boulder.  Colorado  was  vic- 
torious in  the  Liberty  Bowls  in  '69  and  '70; 
in  the  Bluebonnet  Bowl  in  '71;  and  in  1972 
lost  to  Auburn  in  the  Gator  Bowl.  The  Uni- 
versity ranked  in  the  top  ten  in  1972  and 
was  number  three  in  1 971 . 

This  was  Duval's  first  spring  to  recruit  at 
Nebraska  and  evidently  the  know-how  he 
picked  up  while  at  Colorado  is  already 
standing  him  in  good  stead.  He  got  the  men 
he  wanted.  Coach  Tom  Osborne  went  so 
far  as  to  say  that  "this  is  the  best  year 
Nebraska  ever  had  in  recruiting." 

How  did  a  soft-spoken  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI  get  into  the  upper  echelons  of 
Big-8  football?  "I  guess  it  just  happened 
naturally,"   Duval  says.  "I  was  always  in- 


LESLIE  J  HART  is  a  patent  attorney  with 
Russell  &  Nields,  Boston.  .  .  FRANCIS  E. 
KENNEDY,  JR  is  spending  several  months 
as  a  visiting  researcher  at  the  Polytechnic 
Institute  of  Bucharest,  Romania.  He  re- 
ceived his  PhD  in  mechanics  at  RPI  in 
December  and  is  doing  research  in  that  field 
while  abp; 

WILLIAM  J    LADROGA,  JR.,  manager  of 

the  metallurgy  laboratory  for  Arnold  Greene 

;   Laboratories  In  Natick,  Mass.,  re- 

Cently  won   "tin:  award   of   merit"   from  th<; 

my  for  quality  contributions.        M.'ijor 

BRYAN  V.  LECLAIR  has  been  selected  to 

attend  the  Army  Command  and  General  Staff 

ivenworth,  Kansas   h<:  has 

i  full  time  studeni  si  tin-  Univei 

.i  under  tin-  Army's  advanced 


terested  in  sports.  As  a  teenager  I  was  a 
quarterback  and  enjoyed  playing  football  at 
Middletown  (Conn.)  High  School." 

While  at  WPI  he  played  four  years  on  the 
varsity  eleven.  Three  of  those  four  years  he 
was  Tech's  signal-caller  and  passer.  Not 
content  with  earning  his  "W"  in  football, 
he  also  garnered  another  in  baseball  and 
captained  the  1  961  team.  He  played  basket- 
ball, joined  the  Varsity  Club,  and  worked  as 
a  make-up  editor  on  the  Tech  News.  To 
round  things  out  he  became  a  member  of 
the  Tech  Senate,  joined  Phi  Kappa  Theta, 
and  was  voted  vice  president  of  the  sopho- 
more class.  By  the  time  he  was  a  senior, 
Rick  Duval  had  ca'led  quite  a  few  changes 
both  on  and  off  the  playing  field.  He  called 
them  so  well  he  was  listed  in  "Who's  Who." 

He  had  also  done  some  listening — to 
Coaches  Bob  Pritchard  and  Charlie  McNulty, 
both  of  whom  he  credits  with  furthering  his 
interest  in  coaching  as  a  career. 

Following  graduation  he  was  named 
assistant  football  and  head  basketball  coach 
as  well  as  mathematics  department  chairman 
at  Milford  (Mass.)  High  School,  a  post 
which  he  held  for  a  year  before  entering 
graduate  school  at  Wesleyan  University. 
In  1964  he  received  his  MA  in  mathematics 
from  Wesleyan.  During  the  1964-65  season 
he  was  head  football  and  wrestling  coach 
and  physics  department  chairman  at  Bristol 
(Conn.)  Eastern  High  School. 

The  next  year  he  moved  up  into  collegiate 
circles  as  defensive  secondary  coach  at 
Central  Connecticut  State  College  where 
his  career  really  began  to  take  off.  Connect- 
icut earned  national  ranking  in  the  small 
college  division  for  pass  interceptions  (31) 
and  racked  up  a  9  won,  1  lost  record. 

At  Columbia  University  (1966-68)  Duval 
became  defensive  secondary  coach,  defen- 
sive coordinator  and  director  of  football 
recruiting.  Columbia  ranked  seventh  nation- 
ally in  pass  defense  in  the  major  college 
division  while  he  was  on  staff. 

Then  came  the  successful  five-year  hitch 
at  Colorado  and  his  equally  successful  '73 
spring  recruiting  at  his  new  post  in  Nebraska. 
If  history  repeats  itself,  it  looks  as  though 
Rick  Duval  may  well  have  more  champions 
in  his  future. 


program.  He  has  earned  his  master's  in  en- 
gineering and  has  completed  the  course  re- 
quirements for  the  PhD  in  electrical  engineer- 
ing. Formerly  he  commanded  the  Aviation 
Electronics  Support  Co.  in  Vietnam  and  the 
51st  Signal  Battalion  in  Korea.  He  was 
awarded  the  Meritorious  Service  Medal,  a 
Meritorious  Unit  Commendation  Medal,  a 
Bronze  Star,  the  Air  Medal,  and  the  Army 
Commendation  Medal.  .  .  .  DANIEL  J. 
LIZDAS  currently  serves  as  project  manager 
at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 
JAMES  W.  Mr.KENZIE  is  with  Guardian 

Health  Co.,  Emeryville,  Calif ALFRED  A. 

MOLINARI  has  been  elei  ted  vice  president 
for  marki:tnif|  .it  Analogic  Corporation 
PETER  Y.  ONG  works  for  TWA  in  New  York 
City  .  .    ARTHUR  T.  PHILLIPS,  SIM,  is  with 


Penn  Oil,  Boston.  .  .  .  EDWARD  J.  POLE- 
WARCZYK,  engineering  services  manager  at 
Dynamic  Controls  Corp.,  South  Windsor, 
Conn.,  recently  received  his  MBA  from 
American  International  College  School  of 
Business  Administration,  Springfield,  Mass. 
He  participated  in  the  college's  three-year 
executive  development  program.  .  .  .  DR. 
WILLIAM  J.  SAVOLA,  JR.,  is  a  security 
analyst  at  Cowen  &  Co.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
NISHAN  TESHOIAN  currently  serves  as 
manager  of  manufacturing  administration  at 
General  Electric  Co.,  Erie,  Pa. 


1964 


Married:  TERRY  A.  BRIGGS  to  Miss  Stella 
A.  Sullivan  on  May  5,  1973  in  Brattleboro, 
Vermont.  Mrs.  Briggs  holds  a  BS  in  electrical 
engineering  from  Northeastern  University, 
Boston.  Both  she  and  her  husband  are 
employed  at  Naval  Underwater  Systems 
Center  in  New  London,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  D. 
CAMERA,  JR.  and  Miss  Anne  Marie  Boyle 
in  Quincy,  Massachusetts,  on  May  5,  1973. 
WILLIAM  F.  SHIELDS,  '65,  was  best  man 
and  VICTOR  MARONI,  '64,  was  an  usher. 
The  bride,  a  graduate  of  Massachusetts  Bay 
Community  College,  is  a  flight  attendant  with 
Eastern  Airlines.  Camera  is  a  construction 
engineer  with  Camera  Construction  Co. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  THOMAS  S. 
BARON,  a  daughter,  Christine  Frances,  on 
July  24,  1972.  Tom  was  recently  promoted 
to  senior  civil  engineer  with  the  Metro- 
politan District  Commission  in  Boston. 

DR.  KENNETH  D.  ALLARD  is  em- 
ployed at  Technical  University,  Clausthal, 
Germany.  ...  DR.  PAUL  G.  AMAZEEN 
serves  as  an  engineering  manager  for  Ray- 
theon  Co.,    Medical    Electronics,  Waltham, 

Mass RALPH  F.  BEDFORD  is  a  graduate 

student  at  Midwest  Business  School,  Colo- 
rado Springs,  Colo.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  X.  CARA- 
DONNA  works  for  Ames  Research,  Moffett- 

field,  Calif WILLIAM  A.  COTE  has  been 

promoted  to  senior  project  engineer  at  TRC, 
The  Research  Corporation  of  New  England, 
Wethersfield,  Conn.  Presently  he  is  directing 
TRC's  research  study  of  indoor  versus  out- 
door air  pollution  for  the  U.S.  Environmental 
Protection  Agency.  Cote  has  published  a 
number  of  articles  in  technical  journals  in- 
cluding one  on  "Grain  Dust  Emissions."  .  .  . 
MILTON  P.  DENTCH  works  for  Polaroid 
Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J. 
DOWD  holds  the  post  of  manager-capital 
expenditures,  Heublein,  Inc.,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  E.  FERGUSON  teaches 
chemistry  at  Rhode  Island  Junior  College  in 
Warwick.  Last  year  he  received  his  PhD  from 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  During  the 
summer  he  serves  as  assistant  director  of  the 
Gordon  Research  Conferences  in  New 
Hampshire. 

ROBERT  L.  GARRISON  is  president  of 
Garrison  Machine  &  Instrument  Co.,  Hen- 
niker,  N.H.  ...  In  January  BRUCE  M. 
JUHOLA  accepted  a  position  as  eastern 
regional  sales  manager  for  Raychem  Corpora- 
tion, Menlo  Park,  Calif.  He  is  currently 
located  in  Hingham,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  C. 
KNUDSON  is  with  the  State  of  Washington 
unent  of  Ecology  in  Olympia.  .  .  . 
RONALD  E.  LUBOWICZ  has  received  his 
degree  from  the  University  of  Denver  College 


of  Law.  .  .  .  THOMAS  J.  MODZELEWSKI 
serves  as  a  systems  engineer  for  Leeds  & 
Northrup  in  Denver,  Colorado.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
H.  MORSE  now  works  for  Traffic  Systems 

Co.,  Inc.,  Clinton,  Mass DR.  MYRON  G. 

MYERS  is  a  senior  associate  at  Systan,  Inc., 
Washington,  D.C. . . .  BRUCE  A.  OCHIEANO 
holds  the  position  of  controller  for  Fireside 
Securities  Corp.,  Redwood  City,  Calif.  .  .  . 
DR.  ROBERTA.  PEURA  has  been  promoted 
from  assistant  professor  to  associate  pro- 
fessor in  the  Electrical  Engineering  and  Life 
Sciences  Department  at  WPI.  .  .  .  LEO 
PLUSWICK  is  with  ECAC,  Annapolis,  Md. 
.  .  .  PAUL  J.  SROKA  presently  works  as  a 
senior  engineer  at  Raytheon  Co.,  Goleta, 
Calif.  .  .  .  PETER  J.  TANCREDI  has  joined 
Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Boston.  .  .  .  Delaval 
Turbine,  Inc.,  Trenton,  N.J.,  employs  AL- 
BERT E.  TRURAN,  JR.  .  .  .  LOUIS  A. 
WARGO  is  employed  by  City  National  Bank, 
Bridgeport,  Conn. 


1965 


Married:  JOSEPH  GRACIA,  JR.  to  Miss 
Gates  in  Ashland,  Massachusetts  on  April 
14,  1973.  Mrs.  Gracia  is  a  special  education 
teacher  in  North  Attleboro,  Mass.  Mr. 
Gracia  is  a  marketing  product  specialist  at 
Cornell  Dubilier  Electric  Corp.,  New  Bedford, 
Mass. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  GREGORY  F. 
BERRY  their  second  son,  David  Jared,  on 
March  6,  1973.  Berry  recently  received  his 
PhD  in  applied  mechanics  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Connecticut.  Currently  he  is  working 
for  Argonne  National  Laboratory. 

0.  WILLIAM  BJORNLUND,  SIM,  is  a 
production  engineering  manager  at  Warner 
&  Swasey,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROLLIN  K.  COR- 

WIN  works  for  HICOR,  Houston, Tex I. 

KIRBY  HOLCOMBE  has  been  promoted  to 
project  engineer  at  TRC,  The  Research  Cor- 
poration of  New  England,  Wethersfield, 
Conn.  As  an  environmental  engineer,  he  has 
been  responsible  for  environmental  programs 
dealing  with  measurement  and  control  of  air 
and  water  pollution  along  with  chemical  in- 
dustry solid  waste  management.  Presently 
he  is  working  in  the  marketing  division  at 
TRC RICHARD  B.  KENNEDY  is  a  cus- 
tomer executive  instructor  at  IBM  Corpora- 
tion Education  Center,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  DONALD  G.  MUNSON  has  joined 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Boston. 
.  .  .  EDWARD  A.  OBERMEYER  now  serves 
as  technical  manager  at  Kendall  Company, 
Merced,  Calif.  .  .  .  DAVID  S.  SAWICKI  has 
been  named  assistant  dean  at  the  University 
of  Wisconsin,  Milwaukee. 

CHESTER  J.  SERGEY,  JR.  has  been  pro- 
moted to  the  position  of  product  manager  at 
Enthone,  Inc.,  West  Haven,  Conn.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  coordination  of  all  activities 
related  to  the  marketing  of  part  of  the  com- 
pany's growing  line  of  specialty  chemicals 

.  for  the  plating  and  metal  finishing  industries. 

i  Formerly  he  represented  Enthone  in  western 
Connecticut  and  eastern  New  York  as  dis- 
trict sales  engineer. ..  .WILLIAM  F.  SHIELDS 
now    flies    727s    out    of    Miami,    Fla.,    for 

.  Eastern  Airlines. . . .  DENNIS  J.  SIMANAITIS 
works  in  the  mathematics  department  at  the 
College  of  Virgin  Islands.  .  .  .  MARTIN  P. 

l   SOJA   is   with    Long    Island    Lighting    Co., 


Hicksville,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Currently  KENNETH 
W.  TERRY  serves  as  a  senior  experimental 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  He  is  responsible  for  direct- 
ing noise  testing  of  all  model  jet  noise  test 
programs.  Previously  he  was  a  research 
engineer  at  Electric  Boat  Division  of  General 
Dynamics  Corporation,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Capt.  JOHN  G.  ZYNER  is  now  stationed  at 
Hankway  AFB,  Bedford,  Mass. 


1966 


Married:  L.  THOMAS  BENOIT,  JR.  to  Miss 
Pamela  M.  Gozzo  on  April  6,  1973  in  New- 
ington,  Connecticut.  STEPHEN  J.  HEBERT 
and  RONALD  F.  NAVENTI  served  as  ushers. 
Mrs.  Benoit  attended  Central  Connecticut 
State  College  and  is  employed  by  The 
Greater  Hartford  Process,  Inc.  The  bride- 
groom is  with  Flame  Treating  and  Engineer- 
ing, West  Hartford,  Conn. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  WILLIAM  F. 
ELLIOTT,  a  daughter,  Jennifer,  on  August 
19,  1972.  Bill  is  director  of  admissions  at 
Carnegie-Mellon  University,  Pittsburgh,  Pa. 

EDWARD  F.  ADAMCZYK  has  joined 
Alpha  Industries,  Inc.,  Woburn  (Mass.)  as  a 
sales  engineer  for  the  company's  Semicon- 
ductor Division.  He  will  be  selling  discrete 
semiconductor  devices  to  original  equip- 
ment manufacturers  throughout  the  country. 
Formerly  he  was  with  Corning  Glass  Co., 
Phoenix,  Ariz.,  where  he  was  a  product 
engineering  supervisor.  .  .  .  DR.  AHMET  K. 
ATAKAN  is  a  lector  in  Bogazigi  University's 
physics  department,  Istanbul,  Turkey.  .  .  . 
EDWARD  S.  BILZERIAN,  SIM,  has  been 
appointed  division  controller  for  the  Bay 
State  Abrasives  Division,  Westboro  (Mass.) 
of  Dresser  Industries,  Inc.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1955  and  had  been  controller 
with  responsibility  for  the  Westboro  opera- 
tion. Now  he  will  have  responsibility  of  Bay 
State  and  its  subsidiaries.  .  .  .  THOMAS  P. 
BRASISKIS  works  as  a  sales  engineer  for 
Becker  &  Goldstein,  Norwich,  Conn.  .  .  . 
GERARD  G.  CHAREST,  JR.,  is  sales  engi- 
neer at  Tibbetts  Engineering,  New  Bedford, 

Mass WILLIAM  V.  COLLENTRO  works 

for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Capt.  EUGENE  R.  DIONNE  participated 
in  the  U.S.  Air  Force  worldwide  ski  meet  held 
last  winter  at  Snow  Basin,  near  Hill  AFB, 
Utah.  More  than  1 00  of  the  finest  skiers  from 
46  Air  Force  bases  competed  in  the  five-day 
meet.  .  .  .  JAMES  M.  FIFE  is  employed  by 
McMillan  Equipment,  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  . 
JOHN  KOPCHIK,  JR.  is  superintendent  of 
raw  materials  coordination  for  Samsonite 
Corp.,  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  .  DARREL  J.  KOST 
works  as  an  assistant  civil  engineer  for  the 
State  of  New  York,  Babylon,  N.Y. . . .  HARRY 
B.  OGASIAN  is  a  senior  electronics  engineer 
for  Kollmorgen  Corp.,  Northampton,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Presently  RICHARD  J.  PANKOSKI  is  a 
marketing  representative  with  Hazeltine 
Corporation,  Denver,  Colo.  .  .  .  JONATHAN 
H.  PARDEE  serves  as  a  financial  analyst  in 
the  plastics  department  of  Dupont  Co., 
Wilmington,  Delaware.  .  .  .  RONALD  F. 
PICHIERRI  is  a  senior  engineer  for  Applied 
Display  Services,  Inc.,  Wayland,  Mass. 

CHARLES  C.  ROBERTS,  JR.,  who  re- 
cently received  his  PhD  in  mechanical  en- 
gineering from  the  University  of  New  Mexico, 


also  holds  another  distinction.  He  was  named 
as  one  of  the  "Outstanding  Young  Men  of 
America"  in  1  970.  After  receiving  his  BS  and 
MS  in  mechanical  engineering  from  WPI,  he 
went  on  to  the  University  of  Arizona  in 
Tucson  to  take  courses  in  reliability  testing 
and  later  studied  for  his  PhD  at  the  University 
of  New  Mexico. 

During  the  past  seven  years  he  has  worked 
in  the  R&D  Department  at  Jamesbury  Cor- 
poration, Worcester;  served  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  (1  /Lt.)  with  the  U.S.  Army  Materiel 
Command,  Yuma  (Ariz.)  Proving  Ground 
where  he  developed  new  designs  for  solar 
radiation  shielding  for  environmentation;  be- 
come the  author  of  twelve  publications;  and 
given  five  presentations  including  "Auto- 
mobile Emissions  in  Albuquerque"  which 
took  place  at  Environmental  Hearings  at 
City  Hall  in  Albuquerque,  N.M.,  in  1971.  He 
also  taught  at  WPI,  Arizona  Western  College 
in  Yuma,  and  at  the  University  of  New 
Mexico. 

Among  his  memberships  and  clubs  are 
ASME,  National  Society  of  Pershing  Rifles, 
Nautical  Association,  National  Figure  Skat- 
ing Association,  and  Sigma  Tau. 

Currently  he  is  with  the  Toll  ESS  Design 
Department,  Bell  Laboratories,  Naperville, 
III. 

ASHOK  D.  SHAH  has  joined  Western 
Concrete  Structures.  Gardena,  Calif.  .  .  . 
JOHN  M.  SMITH  presently  works  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester.  .  .  .  Microwave  Assoc,  Inc.,  Bur- 
lington,   Mass.,    employs    DR.    ALLEN    A. 

SWEET MALCOLM  C.  WHITE,  JR.,  is  a 

self-employed  builder  in  South  Harwich, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROGER  J.  ZIPFEL  now  serves  as  a 
supervisor  with  E.I.  du  Pont,  Ingleside,  Texas. 


1967 


Married:  ALAN  L.  JANKOT  to  Miss  Pamela 
Galvin  last  winter  in  East  Hartford,  Connect- 
icut. The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Fisher  Junior 
College,  Boston.  Her  husband,  a  design 
engineer  for  Pratt  and  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.,  is  currently  working  on  a 
special  assignment  for  the  company  in 
Sweden.  .  .  .  PAUL  G.  TRUDEL  and  Miss 
Jean  Webster  in  Pylesville,  Maryland  on 
February  3,  1 973.  Mrs.  Trudel  was  a  teacher. 
Her  husband  was  recently  discharged  as  a 
lieutenant  from  the  U.S.  Navy  where  he  was 
assistant  director  of  the  Enlisted  Department 
at  the  Naval  Nuclear  Power  School,  Bain- 
bridge,  Md.  Presently  he  is  a  senior  engineer 
with  Bechtel  Power  Corporation,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif.  .  .  .  WARREN  B.  ZEPP,  JR. 
and  Miss  Ellen  A.  Freeman  in  Brimfield, 
Massachusetts  on  April  7,  1973.  The  bride, 
a  graduate  of  Clark  University,  is  a  bio- 
chemist. The  groom  is  an  environmental 
biologist  with  New  England  Research,  Inc., 
Worcester. 


Borneo  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  KILGUSS,  a 
son,  Daniel  Eric,  on  May  12,  1973. 

Currently  EUGENE  J.  BALDRATE  is  a 
captain  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  at  Mc- 
Clellan  AFB,  Calif.  He  received  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  California  at  Sacra- 
mento last  year.  .  .  .  PATRICK  T.  BUTLER 
serves  as  a  mechanical  engineer  at  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  Rocket  Lab.,  Edwards  AFB, 
Edwards,  Calif.  .  .  .  CURTIS  R.  CARLSON 
works  in  acousto-optics  for  the  RCA/David 
Sarnoff  Research  Center,  Princeton,  N.J. 
Recently  he  received  his  PhD  from  Rutgers 
University.  .  .  .  WAYNE  M.  CHIAPPERINI 
has  been  hired  as  a  full-time  engineer  by  the 
Water  and  Sewer  Commission  of  Waterford, 


Division,  Stratford,  Conn.  .  .  .  BRUCE  F. 
ROGERS,  JR.,  a  captain  in  the  U.S.  Army, 
presently  attends  Tulane  University  as  a 
graduate  student  in  the  business  school.  .  .  . 
CARL  R.  SCHENKER  has  joined  the  tech- 
nical staff  at  Mitre  Corp.,  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Brunswick  Corp.,  Milford,  Conn.,  employs 
ROBERT  P.  TOLOKAN.  .  .  .  MAHESH  M. 
WAS  presented  a  technical  paper,  "Increas- 
ing Hot  Strip  Mill  Roll  Life  by  Spray  Lubrica- 
tion," at  the  annual  convention  of  the 
Association  of  Iron  and  Steel  Engineers  held 
in  April  in  Chicago.  He  is  with  the  mill  equip- 
ment and  control  section  of  Homer  Research 
Laboratories,  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.,  Beth- 
lehem, Pa. 


Like  to  keep  in  touch  with  the 
WPI  student  scene? 

Subscribe  to  the  WPI  NEWSPEAK  (you  used  to  know  it  as 
the  TECH  NEWS).  $4.50  per  year. 

Write  the  business  manager,  WPI  Newspeak,  WPI 
Worcester,  Mass.  0I609 


Conn.  Formerly  he  was  a  sanitary-civil  en- 
gineer at  Fram  Corp.  in  Rhode  Island.  He  has 
also  served  as  assistant  town  engineer  in 
North  Haven.  Earlier  he  was  a  nuclear  project 
engineer  at  General  Dynamics-Electric  Boat 
in  Groton,  Conn.  The  May  issue  of  American 
City  includes  an  article  he  wrote  about  his 
work  in  North  Haven. 

DANIEL  I.  COIFMAN  is  a  production 
manager  at  Interpak  Corp.,  San  Juan,  Puerto 
Rico.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  B.  COTTER  now  works 
as  a  727  pilot  for  Eastern  Airlines  out  of 
Miami,  Fla.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E.  DeNIGRIS  is  a 
teacher  and  cofounder  of  New  Independent 
High  School,  a  free  school  in  New  London, 
Conn.  .  .  .  PETER  J.  DICKERSON  holds  the 
post  of  project  engineer  at  Esso  Research  & 
Engineering  Co.,  Florham  Park,  N.J.  .  .  . 
JOHN  P.  DOW  serves  as  a  sales  engineer 
with  Air  Products  &  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Fram- 
ingham,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  C.  DRESCHER 
works  for  Sanders  Assoc,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H. 
WAYNE  C.  GARTH  is  with  IBM  Corp., 
Thousand  Oaks,  Calif.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
GOHSLER  has  been  employed  as  a  systems 
analyst  for  IBM,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  GREG- 
ORY J.  GOULET  works  for  Country  Village 
Real  Estate,  Merrimack,  N.H.  .  .  FRANK  T. 
JODAITIS  has  joined  HUD,  Hartford,  Conn. 
MATHEOS  S  KALFAYAN  is  employed 
by  Armaco  Overseas  Company  at  the  Hague, 
Netherlands  LAWRENCE  E   NELSON  is 

a  planning  director  for  the  Allegany  County 
Planning  &  Zoning  Commission,  Cumber- 
land. Mr) 

Huntington  Co..  Fairfield.  Conn,  employs 

RONALD  J  OCHMAN     .    SHANTIKUMAR 

V   PATEL  is  with  DMJM.  Washington,  D.C. 

CHARLES   F    PROCTOR   is  a   marine 

turbine  project  engineer  for  Avco,  Lycoming 


1968 


Married:  DONALD  R.  BERGSTROM  to  Miss 
Sandra  Twaite  on  January  1,  1973.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Dufresne  &  Henry  En- 
gineering. . .  .  WALTER  C.  LYNICK  and  Miss 
Mary  Anne  Piccirillo  on  April  7,  1  973  in  Troy, 
New  York.  ISRAEL  MAC  was  an  usher.  The 
bride  and  groom  are  both  with  the  New  York 
State  Department  of  Transportation  in  Al- 
bany  E.  WAYNE  TURNBLOM  and  Miss 

Pamela  Kay  Rider  on  March  17,  1973  in 
Rochester,  New  York.  DANIEL  A.  LIPCAN, 
'69,  was  best  man.  Mrs.  Turnblom,  a  gradu- 
ate of  Elmira  College,  was  formerly  an  ad- 
missions assistant  in  the  chemistry  depart- 
ment at  Columbia  University.  Dr.  Turnblom 
is  a  chemistry  instructor  at  Princeton  Uni- 
versity. 

KENNETH  A.  CRAWFORD  currently 
serves  as  a  graduate  research  assistant  at 
Alden  Research  Laboratories,  Holden,  Mass. 
.  .  .  MARSHALL  J.  DANA  is  a  test  engineer 
at    United   Technology    Center,    Sunnyvale, 

Calif JEFFREY  A.  DECKER  has  received 

his  Master's  Degree  in  business  administra- 
tion from  Babson  College,  Babson  Park, 
Mass MARK  A.  FREYERMUTH  is  a  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
Amherst.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  T.  GLYNN  is  em- 
ployed by  Instrumentation  Lab.,  Inc.,  Lexing- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  J.  GUMBLEY  works  as 
a  project  engineer  for  Campanella  Corp., 
Warwick,  R.I. .  .  .  ROBERT  D.  HICKEY  serves 
as  a  programming  analyst  at  Honeywell 
Information  Systems,  Phoenix,  Ariz.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  J.  HORANSKY  is  assistant  en- 
-  i  omputer  applications,  at  Northeast 
Utilities  Service  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 


RAFIK  E.  KATHIWALLA  works  as  a  land 
investment  consultant  at  ANTEC,  Santa 
Clara,  Calif. . . .  WILLIAM  J.  KRIKORIAN  is  a 
senior  civil  engineer  for  the  Massachusetts 
Bureau  of  Building  Construction  in  Boston. 
.  .  .  EDWARD  C.  McNAMARA  holds  the 
position  of  president  of  Mole  Industries,  Inc., 
a  contracting,  remodeling,  and  rental  firm  in 

Worcester WAYNE  L.  PIERCE  is  a  senior 

project  engineer  at  Esso  Research  &  En- 
gineering Co.,  Baton  Rouge,  La.  .  .  .  AN- 
DREW L.  PIRETTI  is  a  mortgage  banker  and 
construction  loan  officer  at  Wachovia  Mort- 
gage Co.,  Atlanta,  Ga.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  F. 
REED  is  employed  as  a  staff  engineer  for  the 
GTE  Sylvania,  Inc.,  CATV  Operation  in  El 
Paso,  Texas.  .  .  .  JOEL  S.  SHOENHOLTZ 
has  joined  Customs  Chemicals,  East  Pater- 
son,  N.J.  .  .  .  ROGER  P.  SEPSO  is  employed 
by  Robert-Shaw  Controls,  Milford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  P.  STANTON  is  with  Maorcan 
Engineering,  Delta,  Colo.  .  .  .  CARL  P. 
STEELE  works  for  Bird  &  Son,  Inc.,  East 
Walpole,  Mass.  .  .  .  LOUIS  STRONG  is  a 
doctoral  candidate  at  the  University  of 
Michigan  in  Ann  Arbor.  .  .  .  DAVID  C. 
WILLIAMSON  serves  as  an  assistant  en- 
gineer at  Sperry  Rand  Corp.,  Sperry  Systems 
Management  Division,  Great  Neck,  N.Y. 


1969 


Married:  GARY  A.  SMITH  to  Miss  Suzanne 
E.  Phelps  on  January  20,  1973  in  Elnora, 
New  York.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
Becker  Junior  College.  .  .  .  PHILLIP  R. 
WILSEY,  JR.  and  Miss  Marilyn  F.  Burnes  on 
April  6,  1973  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  Mrs. 
Wilsey  graduated  from  Emmanuel  College, 
Boston.  Her  husband  is  with  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  STEPHEN  R. 
PHILLIPS  their  first  child,  Leah  Kimberly,  on 
April  12,  1973. 

DENNIS  G.  AGIN  is  a  systems  analyst 
with  Raytheon  Co.,  Federal  Aviation  Ad- 
ministration, Atlantic,  N.J.  .  .  .  JAMES  A. 
ALFORD  works  as  an  erection  machinist 
with  Central  Rigging,  Avon,  Conn.  .  .  .  Capt. 
WARREN  L.  ANDERSON  is  a  pilot  and  air- 
craft commander  with  the  U.S.  Air  Force. 
Currently  he  is  at  Yokota  AB,  Japan.  .  .  . 
JAMES  P.  ATKINSON  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  department  of  community  planning  at 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  .  .  .  RAY- 
MOND H.  BARROWS,  JR.,  holds  the  post 
of  project  engineer  with  Finch,  Pruyn  &  Co., 
Inc.,  Glens  Falls,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOEL  I.  CEHN 
writes  that  he  has  received  his  MS  degree  in 
nuclear  engineering  from  North  Carolina 
State  University.  Recently  he  completed  a 
trip  through  the  U.S.  and  Mexico.  Last 
November  one  of  his  articles  was  published 
in  Nuclear  Technology.  At  the  present  time 
he  is  a  radiological  scientist  at  Boston 
Edison  Co.,  Boston.  .  .  .  ANTHONY  J. 
CRISPINO  now  works  as  a  computational 
physicist  at  Physics  International,  San 
Leandro,  Calif. 

LAWRENCE  E.  DAY  has  joined  Boeing 
Co.,  Seattle,  Washington.  .  .  .  RALPH  J. 
ESCHBORN  II  is  a  technical  supervisor  with 
E.I.  du  Pont  de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Antioch, 
Calif.  .  .  .  Presently  STEPHEN  D.  FISCHER  is 
a  corporate  product  safety  manager  with 
Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Palo  Alto,  Calif.  .  .  . 


Gosh  kids---lts 
Captain  Gary 
Time 

So,  the  kids  watch  Saturday  morning  TV 
and  you're  up  to  your  cowlick  with  Josie 
and  the  Pussycats  in  Outer  Space,  Sealab 
2020,  and  the  sixty-seventh  rerun  of  The 
Jetsons.  Not  educational,  you  say.  Junk. 
All  that  science  fiction  stuff  will  never  get 
them  anything,  except,  maybe,  trouble. 

And  then  there  are  the  comics.  Cover-boy 
Superman,  muscles  flexed,  smiles  at  you 
smugly  from  atop  the  coffee  table.  Hastily 
you  flip  him  face  down.  Better  yet,  you  stuff 
him,  smile  and  all,  beneath  the  sofa.  You 
sigh.  Between  the  TV  shows,  the  funny 
books,  and,  of  course,  the  drive-in  double 
features  (Remember  The  Blob  and  Fantastic 
Voyage?),  the  kids  will  never  make  it  in  the 
real  world.  Too  bad.  Gosh! 

Some  twenty  years  ago  Mrs.  Goshgarian 
felt  just  that  way  about  her  son,  Gary.  He 
read  reams  of  science  fiction.  His  head  was 
inevitably  in  outer  space.  It  still  is.  But 
nobody  worries  much  about  it  anymore. 
You  see,  he  gets  paid  for  having  his  head 
out  there. 

DR.  GARY  GOSHGARIAN,  '64,  does 
what  lots  of  9-to-5  people  can  only  dream 
about.  He  lives  science  fiction.  He  even 
wears  a  space  suit.  Sometimes.  He  hasn't 
admitted  to  owning  a  flying  saucer,  but 
somehow,  every  day  he  manages  to  get  to 
Northeastern  University  in  Boston.  There, 
right  there  in  the  (Intellectual)  Hub  of  the 
Universe  Dr.  Goshgarian  is  packing  them 
into  a  most  unusual  but  bona  fide  English 
course  called  "Captain  Gary's  Lonely  Space 
Club." 

Two  hundred  and  fifty  students  take  the 
course  for  credit  every  quarter.  (That 
"Lonely"  has  got  to  be  deleted  from  the 
title!)  And  they  love  the  subject  matter. 
Which  is?  What  else?  Science  fiction,  outer 
space,  and  little  green  men. 

Each  class  starts  out  in  a  light-hearted 
Howdy  Doody  manner  with  the  good  cap- 
tain yelling,  "Hey,  kids,  what  time  is  it?", 
with  the  class  yelling  back  in  return,  "It's 
Captain  Gary  Time."  Naturally  the  "pro- 
gram" is  sponsored  by  a  sugar-frosted  cereal 
called  Capt'n  Garyos.  It  must  be  because 
somebody  in  the  class  announces  just  that 
and  besides  there's  a  box  on  the  professor's 
desk  that  has  Capt'n  Garyos  printed  boldly 
across  the  front. 

The  levity  ceases  long  enough  for  Gosh- 
garian to  pass  out  a  reading  list  to  his  stu- 
dents that  says,  "Captain  Gary  welcomes 
you  onto  this  ail-too  brief  oasis  amidst  the 
desert  of  your  educational  experience.  But 
since  our  oasis  is  unfortunately  on  this  sorry 
planet,  and  since  the  planet  may  self- 
destruct  at  any  moment,  read  the  following 
yummy  stuff,  in  the  order  given,  as  quickly 
as  possible.  Your  performance  in  our  little 
journey  from  the  inner  mind  to  the  outer 
limits  will,  alas,  be  determined  by  a  mid- 
term and  a  final  exam  and  an  optional  paper. 
Your  paper  can  be  either  a  critical  analysis 
of  SF  stuff,  or  an  original  short  story,  novel, 
play,  poetry,  or  anything  else  that  you 
probably  can't  buy  from  the  good  folks  at 
Term  Papers  Unlimited." 


The  students  settle  down.  They're  going 
to  have  to  do  some  work  for  their  four  hours' 
credit.  They're  going  to  have  to  learn  (with 
the  help  of  the  good  Captain)  how  to  weed 
out  the  good  science  fiction  from  the  bad. 
And  they're  going  to  have  to  show  some 
imagination  and  originality. 

"Captain  Gary's  Lonely  Space  Club"  is 
certainly  no  run-of-the-mill  English  course, 
even  though  the  students  have  standards  to 
meet.  It  was  instituted  at  Northeastern  by 
Goshgarian  in  1970  to  liven  up  the  curricu- 
lum and  to  attract  students  who  weren't 
English  majors.  The  class  started  out  with  40 
students  and  now  gets  about  a  quarter  of 
the  total  enrollment  in  upper  class  English 
Department  courses. 

Science  fiction  is  not  only  popular  at 
Northeastern,  which  has,  reportedly,  the 
largest  classes  of  its  kind  in  the  country. 
Currently  about  1 000  science  fiction  courses 
are  offered  at  high  schools  and  colleges 
nationally.  Is  science  fiction  relevant  today? 
Can  studying  it  really  help  society?  "Yes," 
Goshgarian  replies  emphatically.  He  says 
that  science  fiction  expresses  a  sense  of 
urgency  about  directions  that  the  human 
race  is  taking.  It  makes  us  ask  whether  we 
are  losing  our  souls  to  technology.  It  isn't 
escapist  reading  unless  you  consider  stories 
about  over-population,  pollution,  mass 
alienation,  ultra  violence,  thermo-nuclear 
war,  machine-dehumanization  and  political 
brainwashing  escapism.  It  forces  us  to  look 
at  our  problems. 

Another  plus,  according  to  Goshgarian,  is 
that  science  fiction  can  impart  a  sense  of 
wonder  and  hope.  This  is  exactly  what  one 
of  his  favorite  novels  does  beautifully.  The 
novel,  CHILDHOOD'S  END,  by  Arthur  C. 
Clarke  (co-author  of  the  movie  epic,  2001, 
A  Space  Odyssey)  is  a  story  of  man's 
abandonment  of  material  things  and  his 
evolution  into  a  superior  mind  life.  In  it 
Clarke  expresses  a  great  hope  and  anticipa- 
tion for  the  future  of  man  as  well  as  a  sense 
of  awe  about  universal  mysteries.  "This 
wonder  is  the  essence  of  good  science  fic- 
tion," Goshgarian  comments.  "It's  what  I 
want  my  students  to  experience." 


As  a  physics  major  at  WPI,  he  "invented 
the  white  tornado"  while  working  on  his 
undergraduate  thesis.  He  constructed  a 
tornado  model  in  a  laboratory  which  helped 
him  to  prove  that  tornadoes  start  electro- 
dynamically  rather  than  aerodynamically,  a 
fact  which  could  conceivably  lead  to 
tornado  prevention. 

Although  Goshgarian  has  always  thought 
of  himself  as  a  tinkerer,  he  discovered  that 
the  laboratory  life,  which  he  tried  out  for 
three  summers  with  Raytheon  in  Wayland, 
Mass.,  was  simply  not  for  him.  "I  don't  have 
the  personality  for  it,"  he  admits.  In  the 
light  of  this  discovery,  he  went  on  to  get 
his  Master's  in  English  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut  in  1966  and  his  PhD  in 
English  from  the  University  of  Wisconsin  in 
1 972.  In  1  968  he  spent  a  year  as  an  assistant 
professor  of  English  at  Western  Michigan 
University  in  Kalamazoo  while  working  on  a 
doctoral  thesis. 

And  now  he's  an  assistant  professor  of 
English  at  Northeastern  University,  combin- 
ing his  scientific  and  literary  background  into 
what  can  only  be  described  as  a  novel  career. 
(No  pun  intended!)  He  also  "rents"  himself 
out  as  a  guest  lecturer  on  science  fiction.  To 
date  he  has  spoken  at  the  Museum  of 
Science  and  various  colleges,  including  a 
turn  as  a  speaker  for  a  WPI  Intersession 
course.  And  he  writes  and  edits.  Recently  he 
has  come  up  with  a  science  fiction  anthology 
which  is  presently  in  the  negotiating  stage 
with  a  publisher  and  has  written  several 
movie  and  video  tape  scripts  for  industry  and 
insurance  companies.  Currently  he  is  working 
on  a  science  fiction  novel  which  he  plans  to 
finish  this  summer. 

He's  got  it  made.  In  spite  of  TV  and  the 
science  fiction  stories  he  cut  his  teeth  on  in 
childhood,  he's  got  it  made.  So,  moms  and 
dads,  quit  worrying.  Dr.  Gary  Goshgarian 
came  through  the  outer  space  syndrome 
more  or  less  unscathed.  Put  Superman  back 
on  the  coffee  table.  Smile  indulgently  at 
The  Jetsons  and  The  Blob.  Maybe,  just 
maybe,  they  aren't  evil  mind-benders  after 
all.— Gosh! 


JEROME  B.  FLYNN,  JR.  is  employed  as  an 
automotive  representative  at  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Southfield,  Mich.  .  .  .  WARREN  F. 
FOLLETT  starts  work  as  a  research  assistant 
in  September  in  the  EE  Department  at  WPI 
where  he  will  be  studying  for  his  Master's 
Degree.  .  .  .  JAMES  HEINRICH  is  now  a 
field  engineer  at  Elliott  Co.,  Chicago,  III.  .  .  . 
DR.  ROY  C  JOHNSON,  JR.,  serves  as  a 
senior  consultant  with  Synercom  Tech- 
nology, Inc.,  Houston,  Texas.  He  received 
his  PhD  from  Rice  University  last  year.  .  .  . 
CURTIS  S.  KRUGER  is  a  development 
engineer  for  Scott,  U.S.A.,  Sun  Valley, 
Idaho. 

JOSEPH  A.  LANGONE  is  a  boiler  design 
engineer  for  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 
.  .  .  DANIEL  A.  LIPCAN  works  as  a  produc- 
tion control  manager  at  Boston  Insulated 
Wire  and  Cable,  Boston.  .  .  .  GEORGE  T. 
McCANDLESS,  JR.,  is  a  programmer  for 
Aetna  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
EDWARD  A.  MIERZEJEWSKI  has  joined 
Chase,  Rosen  &  Wallace,  Alexandria,  Va.,  as 
a  transportation  systems  planner.  .  .  .  MAT- 
THEW T.  NECLERIO  works  for  Albany 
Medical  Center,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
H.  PALM  is  with  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Syracuse,  N.Y. .. .  DANIEL  C.  POND  recently 
received  his  MS  in  electrical  engineering 
from  the  Johns  Hopkins   University,   Silver 

Spring,  Md DAVID  B.  PRATT  has  joined 

Sigma  Processing  Systems,  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  JAMES  T.  RODIER  is  now  with  Charles 
T.  Main,  Inc.,  Southeast  Prudential  Tower, 
Boston. . .  .  VINUBHAI  J.  SHAH  is  employed 
by  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp., 
Boston.  .  .  .  MARK  S.  SIMPSON  works  for 
Merck  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Rahway,  N.J.  .  .  .  Z. 
RONALD  STELMAK  serves  as  an  account 
representative  at  A.B.  Chance  Co.,  Nauga- 
tuck,  Conn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  J.  WEINER  is  with 
Control  Data  Corp.,  San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Whelan  Associates,  Middlefield,  Conn., 
employs  DONALD  W.  WHELAN. 


1970 


Married:  GARRETT  G.  GRAHAM  and  Miss 
Karen  V.  Klosowski  on  May  19  in  Norwood, 
Massachusetts.  HOWARD  NORCROSS  was 
an  usher.  The  bride  teaches  in  the  Medfield 
School  System.  The  groom  is  employed  by 
the  Polaroid  Corp.  of  Waltham.  .  .  .  JOHN  S. 
KEENAN  to  Miss  Ann  Marie  Kosciuszek 
February  17,  1973  in  Spencer,  Massachu- 
setts Best  man  for  his  brother  was  THOMAS 
A  KEENAN,  '67  Ushers  included  another 
brother,  PHILIP  KEENAN,  '62  and  STEVEN 
C  WATSON.  '71  Mrs.  Keenan  is  a  regis- 
tered nurse.  The  groom  recently  received  his 
MS  in  management  from  RPI  and  is  now  an 
industrial  engineer  at  Connecticut  Light  & 
Power  Co  .  Meriden,  Conn  .  .  .  FREDERICK 
M  RYMSHA  and  Miss  Janet  L.  Clapp  on 
March  31  in  Marlboro,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Rymsha  is  a  dental  hygienist.  Her  husband  is 
employed  at  Winchester  (Mass.)  Hospital  as 
a  biomedical  en(| 

Born     To    Mr     ftnd    Mrs.    WILLIAM     G. 
HILLNER     theif     first     child,     a     daughter, 
me.  on  April  14   Bill  is  a  sales  engineer 
with  The  Train  Co.  in  Boston. 


DR.  GEORGE  P.  ALLENDORF,  JR.,  has 
become  manager  of  the  Semi-Conductor 
Group,  Microwave  Assoc,  Inc.,  Burlington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  E.  BERNACKI  works  at 
MIT's  Lincoln  Laboratories  in  Lexington, 
Mass.  .  .  .  PETER  J.  BILLINGTON  has  been 
appointed  regional  supervisor  of  Sigma  Pi 
Fraternity  in  New  England.  Currently  he 
owns  and  operates  The  Bike  Shop  in 
Worcester ALAN  S.  BREITMAN  is  asso- 
ciated with  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co. 
of  America,  Worcester.  .  .  .  JAMES  F. 
BROWN  recently  exhibited  "art  and  arti- 
facts" at  the  Holden  Experiment  Gallery,  in 
Holden,  Mass.  His  show  explored  ideas, 
objects,  and  stimuli  that  were  factors  in  the 
creation  of  recent  works.  In  theatrical  terms 
he  described  his  exhibition  as  a  stage  pro- 
duction. Brown,  who  has  been  associated 
with  Unicorn  Studios,  has  also  studied  and 
taught  at  the  Worcester  Art  Museum.  .  .  . 
STEPHEN  G.  DEGON  is  with  Polaroid  Corp., 
Norwood,  Mass. 

DWIGHT  S.  DICKERMAN  is  now  a  staff 
engineer  for  Linde  Division  of  Union  Carbide 
Corp.,  Indianapolis,  Indiana.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
H.  GOFF  will  shortly  resume  his  work 
towards  a  Master's  Degree  in  electrical  en- 
gineering at  the  University  of  Vermont 
sponsored  by  his  employer,  the  IBM  Cor- 
poration, Essex  Junction,  Vt.  .  .  .  RONALD 
J.  GRZELAK  serves  as  a  second  lieutenant 
in  the  U.S.  Army.  Last  year  he  received  his 
MA  from  Columbia  University.  .  .  .  RAY- 
MOND E.  HUDSON  is  with  Dresser  Indus- 
tries, Salisbury,  Md.  .  .  .  STUART  A.  HURD 
has  become  the  first  full-time  zoning  ad- 
ministrator in  Bennington,  Vt.  He  was  hired 
by  the  planning  commission  to  cope  with 
the  burgeoning  growth  of  the  town  and  he 
handles  the  issuance  of  permits,  gives  ad- 
vice to  developers,  and  rectifies  zoning 
violations.  He  was  chosen  for  the  position 
out  of  a  field  of  78  applicants. 

DAVID  F.  KENDRICK  works  as  an  asso- 
ciate forging  engineer  at  Wyman-Gordon 
Co.,  North  Grafton,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES  S. 
LOVENDALE  is  a  programmer/analyst  at  the 
Fafnir  Bearing  Co.,  New  Britain,  Conn.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  P.  MARKOT  is  a  graduate  fellow 
in  mathematics  at  Ohio  State  University.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  H.  MORGAN  serves  as  a  consult- 
ing engineer  with  Bay  State  Engineer  Corp., 

Winchester,  Mass WALTER  S.  NAGOR- 

SKI  teaches  at  R.  C.  Lee  High  School,  New 
Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  P.  OBER  is  at  the 
University  of  Chicago  Business  School.  .  .  . 
GIRISH  T.  PATEL  works  as  an  estimator  for 
Granger  Contracting  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  PETTIROSSI  has  been  employed 
as  a  planning  engineer  at  Western  Electric 
Co.,  North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  RANDOLPH 
J.  SABLICH  presently  serves  as  a  sales 
representative  for  Xerox,  Boston.  .  .  .  JOHN 
C.  SEXTON  recently  received  his  MA  in 
mathematics  from  UCLA.  .  .  .  JAMES  W. 
SMALL  now  works  for  Camp  Dresser  & 
McKee,  Boston.  .  .  .  BARRY  W.  SODEN  is 
assistant  engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities, 
Berlin,  Conn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  T.  STULA  is  a 
project  development  engineer  at  Gulf 
General  Atomic,  Inc.,  San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  . 
STEVEN  A.  UDELL  has  become  assistant 
department  manager  at  C.I.T.,  White  Plains, 
N.Y. 


1971 


Married:  STEVEN  P.  DEXTER  to  Miss  Janice 
L.  Pepka  on  April  7,  1973  in  South  Grafton, 
Massachusetts.  The  groom's  brother,  LARRY 
P.  DEXTER,  '69,  was  best  man.  Mrs.  Dexter 
is  a  teacher  at  Grafton  Middle  School.  Her 
husband  is  a  civil  engineer  for  the  Worcester 
County  Engineering  Department.  . 
GEORGE  HOMME  and  Miss  Mary  Jane 
Mulryan  in  West  Boylston,  Massachusetts 
on  May  12,  1973.  Mrs.  Homme,  a  practical 
nurse,  was  employed  in  the  medical  inten- 
sive care  unit  at  Worcester  City  Hospital. 
Her  husband  is  New  York  regional  repre- 
sentative for  Instrumentation  Laboratories, 
Inc.,  of  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  NORMAN  E. 
JOHNSON  to  Miss  Cynthia  Ann  Sammons 
on  May  12, 1 973  in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts. 
Both  the  bride  and  the  groom  are  employed 
at  GE  Plastics.  .  .  .  VICTOR  WALLOCK  and 
Miss  Iris  F.  Bronitsky  in  New  London, 
Connecticut,  on  May  20,  1973.  The  bride 
attended  the  University  of  Connecticut.  Her 
husband  is  process  engineer  at  Crawford 
and  Russell,  Stamford. 

GEORGE  J.  BAKEVICH  completed  his 
MS  degree  at  the  University  of  Utah  last 
January  and  is  now  employed  as  a  project 
engineer  with  the  Schenectady  Naval  Reac- 
tors Office  of  the  U.S.  Atomic  Energy  Com- 

misson  in  Schenectady,  N.Y RAYMOND 

J.  BISZKO  is  vice  president  at  Guarantee 
Construction,  Tiverton,  R.I.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F. 
CUNNINGHAM  teaches  at  Sacred  Heart 
High,  Waterbury,  Conn.  .  .  .  GREGORY  S. 
DICKSON  is  a  production  development 
engineer  at  the   Dow  Chemical   Company, 

Midland,  Mich STEPHEN  A.  DIMING  is 

a  textile  chemist  at  the  United  Elastic  Co., 
Division  of  J.  P.  Stevens  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Wool- 
wine,  Va MATHEW  A.  GLUCKSON  has 

joined  Sunrise  Knitwear  Co.,  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  DWIGHT  P.  EDDY  works  as  a  display 
and  indicator  design  engineer  at  Norden 
Division,  UAC,  Norwalk,  Conn. . .  .  WILLIAM 
B.  ERICSON  works  for  Data  General  Corp., 
Southboro,  Mass. 

RICHARD  B.  HOPEWELL  is  a  process 
engineer  for  Badger  Company,  Cambridge, 
Mass ROSENDO  D.  JIMENEZ  is  a  pro- 
fessor in  the  physics  department  at  ITESM, 
Sucursal  de  Correos  "J",  Monterrey,  N.L. 
Mexico.  .  .  .  2/LT.  JOHN  C.  JOHNSON,  who 
received  his  MSEE  from  Kansas  State  Uni- 
versity last  spring,  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  at 
Brook  Army  Medical  Center,  Fort  Sam 
Houston,  San  Antonio,  Texas.  .  .  .  ERNEST 
R.  JOYAL  serves  as  an  engineer-in-training 
at   Naval   Ship  Systems  Command,   Crystal 

City,  Va THOMAS  J.  KAMINSKI  is  now 

at  the  Goddard  Space  Center,  University  of 
Maryland,  Greenbelt,  Md.  .  .  .  GERALD  J. 
KERSUS  works  as  an  electronics  engineer 
at  Booz,  Allen  Applied  Research,  New 
Shrewsbury,  N.J.  .  .  .  MYLES  KLEPER  has 
completed  his  duties  with  the  Peace  Corps 
and  is  now  located  in  Hamden,  Conn.  .  .  . 
DOUGLAS  W.  KULLMAN  is  currently 
assistant  district  traffic  engineer  with  the 
Ohio  Department  of  Transportation.  .  .  . 
EMILE  P.  LEVASSEUR  serves  as  a  mechan- 
ical design  engineer  for  General  Electric's 
Aircraft  Engine  Group,  Cincinnati,  Ohio. 

DOUGLAS  H.  MICHEL  is  with  the  nuclear 
plant  operations  at  Knolls  Atomic  Power 
Laboratory,  General  Electric  Co.,  Schenec- 
tady, NY...  CARL  T.  NELSON  is  a  graduate 


student  at  Kansas  State  University,  Manhat- 
tan, Kansas.  .  .  .  JOHN  A.  NIESTEMSKI,  JR. 
is  studying  at  the  University  of  Bridgeport 
(Conn.)  .  .  .  DONALD  D.  O'BRIEN  substitute 
teaches  in  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  RICHARD  G. 
PACE  is  a  sales  engineer  at  Westinghouse 
Electric,  Minneapolis,  Minn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A. 
PAYNE  has  been  employed  by  Essex 
Chemical  Co.,  Clifton,  N.J.  .  .  .  PAUL  D. 
SANDBURG  works  for  Deere  &  Company, 
John  Deere  Dubuque  Tractor  Works, 
Dubuque,  Iowa.  .  .  .  EDWARD  J.  SHER- 
MAN, JR.  is  a  project  engineer  for  Sessing- 
haus  &  Ostergaard,  Inc.,  Erie,  Pa.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  M.  SINICROPE  has  been  employed 
as  a  computer  operator  by  the  Massachusetts 
Eye  and  Ear  Infirmary  in  Boston.  .  .  .  ALBERT 
W.  STROMQUIST  is  studying  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts.  .  .  .  DAVID  L.  TIT- 
TERINGTON,  JR.  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  Rhode  Island  in  Kingston. 
MICHAEL  H.  TUREK,  who  received  his 
MBA  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
last  year,  now  works  for  Monsanto  Corp., 
Stonington,  Conn. 


1972 


Married:  ANDREW  G.  MAYSHAR  and 
Cynthia  J.  Jacobson  on  April  14,  1973  in 
Webster,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Mayshar  is  on 
the  staff  at  Hahnemann  Hospital,  Worcester. 
Her  husband  is  with  the  RCA  Corporation 
in  Burlington,  Mass. 


KENNETH  C.  ARIFIAN  is  a  junior  engineer 
with  the  Water  Department  in  the  Township 
of  Livingston,  N.J.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  G.  CAT- 
LOW  serves  as  a  development  engineer  for 
General  Electric  Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  L.  DESCHENES,  development 
engineer,  works  for  Fram  Corp.,  East  Provi- 
dence, R.I STEPHEN  E.  DOMERATZKY 

is  operation-production  manager  for  WICN- 
Radio,  Worcester.  .  .  .  DANIEL  GACCETTA 
works  as  an  assistant  engineer  for  Factory 
Insurance  Association.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  D. 
GOODHUE,  JR.,  who  recently  received  his 
Master's  Degree  in  mathematics  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts,  is  now  pursu- 
ing his  doctorate  there  under  a  government 
fellowship.  .  .  .  CHARLES  A.  GREENE,  JR., 
is  working  toward  graduate  degrees  in  geo- 
logical oceanography  under  a  research 
assistantship  at  Florida  State  University.  .  .  . 
DR.  ALLAN  R.  HAMBLEY  is  assistant  pro- 
fessor at  Michigan  Technological  University, 
Houghton,  Mich. 

JAMES  A.  HENDERSON  has  joined  the 
General  Electric  Research  and  Development 
Center,  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  as  a  member  of 
the  new  Industrial  Research  Graduate  Study 
Program.  The  program  is  a  joint  effort  be- 
tween RPI  and  the  GE  Research  and  Devel- 
opment Center.  While  pursuing  a  course  of 
study  at  RPI,  the  participant  works  half  time 
during  the  academic  year  and  full  time  dur- 
ing the  summer.  Henderson  is  a  candidate 
for  a  Master's  Degree  at  RPI.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
C.  HUARD  teaches  at  Woodstock  Academy, 
Woodstock,  Conn JOHN  H.  HUBBARD 


is  with  Torrington  Company,  Torrington, 
Conn.  .  .  .  PATRICK  F.  LAFAYETTE  is  study- 
ing for  his  MS  at  the  University  of  Maine  in 

Orono MICHAEL  K.  MALONE  serves  as 

a  reliability  engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania, 
Needham,  Mass. 

HENRY  C.  MARGOLIS  is  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  Vermont. 
GREGORY  C.  MASSOUD  has  been  em- 
ployed by  the  Massachusetts  Department  of 
Public  Works,  Boston.  .  .  .  JAMES  M. 
PERRY  is  a  doctoral  candidate  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  Navy  Ensign 
DAVID  G.  RUSHTON  recently  received  his 
commission  as  an  ensign  at  the  Aviation 
Officers  Candidate  School,  Pensacola,  Fla. 
He  will  proceed  to  the  next  phase  of  his 
aviation  training  leading  to  designation  as  a 
naval  aviator  or  flight  officer.  .  .  .  DINESH 
V.  SHAH  is  a  senior  draftsman  at  Stone  & 
Webster,  Boston,  Mass.  .  .  .  Kl  R.  SOHN 
holds  the  post  of  superintendent  of  manu- 
facturing at  Sam  Yang  Grinding  Wheel  Co., 
in  Korea.  .  .  .  Second  Lieutenant  BRUCE  M. 
SZYPOT  serves  with  the  U.S.  Army  Signal 
Corp.,  Ballistic  Labs.,  Aberdeen  Proving 
Ground,  Md.  .  .  .  LEON  R.  WECHSLER  is 
director-information  systems,  for  the  Ad- 
vanced Planning  Research  Group,  Inc.  .  .  . 
DR.  CLIFTON  E.  WHEELER  teaches  chemis- 
try and  physics  at  Winchester  (Mass.)  High 
School.  .  .  .  JOHN  O'DONNELL  is  an  as- 
sistant civil  engineer  for  the  Town  of  Arling- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  .  BRENNAN  McLAUGHLIN 
holds  a  teaching  assistantship  at  WPI  where 
he  is  a  graduate  student. 


It's  getting  to  be  that  time  of  year  again 

Homecoming  is  coming  back 


Friday  and  Saturday,  October  19  &  20 


Concerts,  Soccer,  Football,  Picnics, 
the  infamous  Rope-Pull,  and  much  more  !  !  ! 


'w->  y 


n     no.*.      (^pr    "  '■ 

u  l\e1  i'n 


f 


y 


. 


, 


• 


t 


i-"L^  *     -C .' 


October,  1973 


UlllJSiltSIP 


WP/'s  new  scanning  electron  microscope 


The  Editor's  Input 


We  are  very  happy  to  announce  that 
the  American  Alumni  Council  and 
Time  Inc.  have  awarded  the  WPI 
Journal  a  special  citation  "for  sig- 
nificant improvement  in  alumni  mag- 
azine publishing."  The  award,  which 
takes  into  account  both  content  and 
appearance,  was  given  at  the  AAC 
annual  meeting  in  Vancouver,  B.C., 
last  summer. 

As  you  should  know  by  now,  at 
that  meeting  the  Annual  Alumni  Fund 
was  given  a  first-place  award  for 
improvement  in  the  category  of  pro- 
fessional and  specialized  schools. 
That  award  from  the  AAC  and  the 
U.  S.  Steel  Foundation  carried  a 
$1,000  cash  award  as  well  as  a 
handsome  moebius  strip  trophy. 

And  while  we're  on  the  subject  of 
awards,  the  American  College  Public 
Relations  Association  has  awarded 
special  citations  to  two  WPI  publica- 
tions: the  invitation  to  membership  in 
the  President's  Advisory  Council,  and 
"The  WPI  Plan  for  Personal  Growth," 
a  booklet  designed  for  prospective 
students. 

Because  of  the  printing  schedules  for 
the  Journal,  I  am  writing  this  just  a 
short  while  after  the  August  issue 
went  out  in  the  mail,  but  already 
some  1  50  |  questionnaires  have  been 
returned  by  readers.  We  hope  that  all 
of  you  will  take  the  time  to  fill  out  the 
questionnaire.  When  we  know  what 
you  want  to  read,  we're  in  a  better 
position  to  give  it  to  you. 


You  may  well  have  received  extra 
copies  of  the  August  Journal.  Our 
mailing  house  had  some  problems, 
it  seems,  and  sent  two  Journals  to 
nearly  the  entire  list  of  WPI  parents. 
The  problems  have  been  corrected, 
we  believe,  and  this  issue  should 
reach  you  in  the  usual  quantities.  One 
side-effect  of  the  extra  mailing  was 
that  we  have  no  extra  copies  of  that 
issue  on  hand.  We  will  have  reprints 
of  the  main  article,  "The  Theory  of 
Alpha  and  Omega  on  Planet  Earth," 
available  for  those  who  wish. 

While  we're  talking  about  multiple 
copies,  a  number  of  people  have 
inquired  why  they  regularly  receive 
two  (or  in  a  few  cases  three)  copies. 
This  happens  chiefly  when  an 
alumnus  is  also  a  parent  of  a  current 
WPI  student.  Our  address  lists  come 
from  two  different  sources  (the 
Alumni  Association  and  the  Regis- 
trar's Office),  and  at  present  we  have 
no  reasonable  way  of  finding  names 
common  to  both  lists.  The  cost  of 
wiping  out  the  address  duplication 
would  be  far  greater  than  is  the 
expense  of  the  extra  copies.  So  please 
bear  with  the  situation  if  you  receive 
two  copies — perhaps  you  could  pass 
the  extra  along  to  a  friend  or  to  a 
high-school  student  who  might  be 
interested  in  WPI. 


hi:mp 


dI.  77,  No.  3 


October,  1973 


A  Letter  from  new  Association  President  Walter  J.  Bank. 

4  The  Inward  Eye — a  look  at  the  surprising  capabilities  of 
WPI's  new  scanning  electron  microscope,  an  instrument 
adding  a  new  dimension  to  student  and  faculty  research. 

4  Intersession  is  coming  back,  and  there's  bound  to  be 
something  in  it  for  you. 

tO  Technology  Isn't  the  Villain — After  All — a  measured 
response  to  the  doomcriers  who  would  have  us  turn  our 
backs  on  the  machine  and  go  back  to  the  Middle  Ages  ...  or 
at  least  to  the  1950s. 

Miller  Gets  Teed  Off — If  the  Alumni  Association  held  a 
golfing  championship,  Jim  Miller  would  probably  win  it. 


Departments 

2     Feedback 
3     Completed  Careers 
J     Your  Class  and  Others 


■e  Cover:  On  the  front  is  shown  WPI's  new  scanning  electron 
croscope  with  ME  Prof.  Ronald  Biederman  adjusting  focus.  The 
ck  cover  shows  one  of  the  SEM's  products — a  view  of  the  eye  of 
ant  at  926X  magnification  (enlarged  from  300X). 


itor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

jmni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

blications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
;hard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
J;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

'sign:  H.  Russell  Kay 

oography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
arcester,  Massachusetts. 

Idress  all  correspondence  regarding 
itorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
itor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
stitute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
hone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  Presidents:  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman; 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


Feedback 
cabde 


€H\iX%. 


kcabdeeF 
Feedback 


Alpha-Omega  strikes  responsive  chord 

The  article,  "The  Theory  of  Alpha  and 
Omega  on  Planet  Earth,"  by  Andreas  and 
Annette  de  Rhoda,  in  the  August  1973 
Journal,  is,  in  my  belief,  one  of  the  greatest 
ever,  anywhere. 

Comparable  to  my  feelings  of  enthusiasm 
for  the  subject  and  the  way  it  has  been 
handled  by  the  authors,  is  my  elation  that 
WPI  has  had  the  fortune  to  bring  this  off. 
Hearty  congratulations  to  everyone  at  WPI 
who  had  a  part  in  this  achievement. 

Warren  F.  Burlingame,  '17 

Boston,  Mass. 

I  read  the  "Alpha-Omega"  article  in  the 
recent  WPI  alumni  journal  and  I  wanted  to 
tell  you  how  much  I  enjoyed  it.  The  most 
interesting  thing  about  the  article  is  that  it 
appears  to  be  changing  the  whole  character 
of  the  Journal.  Does  this  mean  that  Tech  is 
going  to  exercise  some  intellectual  leader- 
ship in  the  engineering-technology  world? 
It  certainly  looks  that  way  and  I  think  it  is  a 
very  exciting  prospect.  A  few  more  articles 
like  that  and  the  Journal  will  be  on  a  par 
with  the  MIT  publication,  Technology 
Review. 

Lawrence  E.  Fox 
Executive  Director, 
Worcester  Consortium  for 
Higher  Education,  Inc. 

Ever  since  my  son  enrolled  at  WPI  as  a 
member  of  the  class  of  '76,  I  have  been 
receiving  your  publication.  Because  its  aim 
is  continuing  education,  and  because  it  is 
basically  technology  oriented,  I  find  myself 
reading  the  WPI  Journal  more  thoroughly 
than  my  own  Brown  Alumni  Monthly. 

Your  August  issue  just  arrived  (twice). 
Even  though  the  topic  is  weighty,  and  I'll 
have  to  read  it  again  to  better  understand  it, 
I  really  don't  need  two  copies.  .  .  . 

Ernest  W.  Tuckerman 
East  Providence,  R.I. 

Being  compared  with  MIT  and  Brown  is 
high  praise  indeed.  At  the  same  time  the 
Journal  was  awarded  its  citation  for  im- 
provement, the  Brown  Alumni  Monthly  was 
given  the  Robert  Sibley  Award  of  the 
American  Alumni  Council  as  the  best  alumni 
magazine  in  North  America  last  year.  For 
more  on  the  double  copies  problem,  see  the 
inside  front  cover. 


Not  everyone  liked  it 

My  reaction  to  this  article  is  so  strong  and  so 
unfavorable  that  I  am  compelled  to  write  you. 

You  state  that  "you  have  done  things 
which  were  called  controversial,  things 
called  absurd."  Indeed  you  have.  But  this 
article  goes  beyond — far  beyond — the  con- 
troversial or  the  absurd.  It  is  sheer  tommyrot. 
Its  inclusion  in  a  publication  BY  the  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute  FOR  its  Alumni 
Association  is  a  sorry  blot  on  the  reputation 
of  the  Institute  and  is  nothing  short  of  an 
affront  to  the  intelligence  of  its  alumni. 

You  indicate  that  you  may  "continue  the 
dialogue  between  author  and  reader  in  a 
future  issue."  Also,  I  note  that  one  of  the 
authors  is  scheduled  to  offer  a  course  in  the 
"Alpha-Omega  Theory"  during  Intersession 
1974.  I  strongly  urge  you  to  pass  up  both  of 
these  programs,  as  the  repeated  association 
of  Worcester  Tech's  name  with  pseudo- 
scientific  activities  of  this  type  (I  have  in 
mind  also  the  Journal  article  by  Ben  Bova 
and  the  one  about  Genetic  Engineering)  will 
alienate  a  large  body  of  the  Alumni  and  do 
serious  harm  to  the  high  standing  of  Tech 
as  a  solid  school  of  Science  and  Engineering. 
I'm  sure  you  don't  want  this  to  happen. 
R.  H.  Dufault,  '14 
Spencer,  Mass. 

But  the  letters  keep  coming 

My  husband  and  I  agree  that  the  article 
"The  Theory  of  Alpha  and  Omega"  is 
fascinating  and  thought-provoking. 

For  myself,  I  admit  with  a  feeling  of  relief 
and  amazement  that  this  article  did  clarify 
and  express  some  of  my  own  inner  feelings 
and  convictions.  As  a  high  school  librarian 
I  dip  into  many  books,  with  the  result  that 
I  know  a  little  bit  about  a  lot  of  things,  but 
always  wishing  I  could  find  some  answers 
to  some  very  big  questions. 

Being  aware  that  change  has  accelerated 
beyond  our  usual  expectations,  it  is  stimu- 
lating to  find  authors  who  see  a  reason  in 
this  and  a  purpose.  They  also  have  been  able 
to  present  their  theory  so  laymen  can 
understand  it. 

I  hope  there  will  be  more  of  this  in  the 
Journal,  and  I  look  forward  eagerly  to  the 
publication  of  the  de  Rhodas'  book. 

Jacqueline  Armstrong 
Littleton,  N.H. 


WORCESTER     POLYTECHNIC     INSTITUTE 


W     O     R     C     E     S     T     E     R  , 


S     S    A     C     H     IT    S    E    T    T    S 


October  1973 


Dear  Fellow  Alumnus, 

I  am  honored  to  assume  the  leadership  of  your  Alumni  Association 
from  Jim  Donahue,  who  did  such  a  marvelous  job  in  guiding  our  organiza- 
tion through  a  difficult  transition  period.   Our  Executive  Committee  has 
already  mapped  out  a  plan  of  action  to  continue  the  fine  work  initiated 
during  the  past  two  years  to  improve  the  WP I  Alumni  Association. 

WPI  has  progressed  greatly  in  the  last  ten  years,  not  only  in  physi- 
cal plant,  as  those  of  you  who  have  visited  the  campus  recently  can  testify, 
but  more  importantly  in  its  new  approach  to  education  at  the  undergraduate 
level.   The  WPI  Plan  has  brought  the  college  into  the  educational  community 
limelight  with  its  bold  approach. 

To  complement  the  academic  and  administrative  innovations  adopted  by 
WPI,  the  Executive  Committee  feels  that  a  searching  look  should  be  taken 
at  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  with  the  broad  aim  of  improving  its  services 
to  you,  the  alumnus,  and  to  the  college. 

For  that  reason  I  have  asked  Bob  Higgs  to  chair  a  Master  Plan  Committee 
to  study  our  goals  and  objectives,  communications,  services,  financial  pro- 
cedures and  other  activities.   This  committee  will  be  expected  to  expand  its 
thinking  beyond  our  usually  conservative  New  England  approach  to  keep  in 
step  with  the  strides  taken  by  the  academic  side  of  WPI. 

Your  thoughts  and  ideas  will  be  welcomed  by  the  Master  Plan  Committee 
at  any  time  as  they  embark  on  this  important  new  endeavor. 

I  look  forward  to  your  continued  support  in  the  coming  year,  both  in 
WPI  alumni  activities  and  in  the  general  promotion  of  our  Alma  Mater  in 
your  local  community. 

Sincerely  yours, 


Walter  J.  Bank 

President 

WPI  Alumni  Association 


The  Inward  Eye 


"That,"  said  George  Schmidt, 
flicking  the  room  into  darkness 
and  moving  to  his  chair  before  the 
console,  his  eyes  fixed  on  the  TV 
screen  above,  "that  is  the  head  of 
an  ant." 

The  black-and-white  screen 
filled  up  with  a  huge  round  object, 
with  what  looked  like  a  massive 
antenna  crossing  the  picture  diago- 
nally, and  with  an  eye,  a  hemi- 
sphere apparently  made  up  of  a 
multitude  of  tiny,  uniform  seg- 
ments. 

"Magnification,  George?" 

"One  hundred  times." 

He  flicked  a  switch.  "Three 
hundred  times."  This  time  the 
antenna  covered  one-quarter  of 
the  screen,  the  eye  another  quar- 
ter; its  segments  turned  out  to  be 
subordinate  eyes  in  their  own 
right.  In  between  them,  miniscule 
hairs  appeared  vaguely. 

Another  flick;  "one  thou- 
sand." Nothing  now  but  a  large 
sector  of  the  eye,  the  hairs  now 
standing  out  clearly,  each  about  as 


Meet  WPI's  newest  tool  for 
scientific  research  and 
engineering  advance: 
the  scanning  electron  microscope 


long  as  the  diameter  of  one  of 
those  myriad  sub-eyes.  "The  life 
science  people  tell  me  those  hairs 
keep  the  eyes  clean  of  dust  and 
dirt,"  said  Schmidt,  the  engineer- 
ing assistant  who  operates  the 
machine. 

"Sort  of  like  windshield 
wipers?" 

"Sort  of,  I  guess." 

The  image  grew  again,  to 
10,000X.  The  screen  was  now 
filled  with  fragments  of  three  sub- 
eyes.  One  windshield  wiper  stood 
among  them  like  a  giant  single- 
limbed  tree,  rooted  in  a  massive 
base  that  might  well  be  a  swivel 
device. 

"Do  you  think  these  things 
move  around  360  degrees  and  up 
and  down  to  clean  those  eyes 
around  them?" 

"Who  knows?  It  would  make 
sense,  wouldn't  it?"  He  switched 
again,  this  time  on  another  dial. 
"If  you  want  to  go  still  closer,  you 
change  from  the  TV  to  the 
cathode-ray  viewing  tube."  This 
showed  a  scanning  beam  traveling 
from  top  to  bottom,  leaving  be- 
hind a  gradually  fading  fluores- 
cence in  which  it  was  possible  to 
study  the  image. 

Another  flick.  "Thirty  thou- 
sand times  magnification."  The 
tube  was  nearly  filled  with  the 
lower  part  of  one  windshield 
wiper.  "That's  about  as  far  as 
anyone  would  wish  to  go  with  a 
big  specimen  like  this,"  said 
Schmidt.  "Care  to  look  at  an 
aluminum  fracture?" 


This  scene,  which  took  place  in  mid-September, 
illustrates  the  remarkable  ease  of  using  WPI's  newest 
significant  piece  of  equipment,  a  JEOL  JSM-U3 
scanning  electron  microscope.  The  instrument  was 
purchased  with  a  grant  from  the  Elizabeth  A.  Lufkin 
Trust,  a  Boston-based  foundation  whose  generosity 
has  been  responsible  for  several  important  pieces  of 
equipment  at  WPI  over  the  years.  Watched  over  by 


This  series  of  photographs  shows  the  ability  of  the  SEM  to  zero  in 
on  an  object  for  study  with  increasing  magnification.  The  subject  is 
the  head  and  eye  of  a  common  black  ant.  The  photos  were  taken  at 
magnifications  of  100X,  300X,  1,000X,  and  3.000X,  and  are 
enlarged  5  percent  here. 


the  materials  engineering  faculty,  the  scanning  elec- 
tron microscope  is  an  interdisciplinary  tool  which  is 
opening  up  a  whole  new  world  of  perception, 
research,  and  learning  for  WPI  faculty  and  students 
alike. 


A  short  history  of 
magnification;  or, 
making  small  things 
big  ain't  easy 


In  the  beginning  there  was  the 
eye,  naked  and  unaided;  magni- 
fication IX,  resolution  approxi- 
mately 0.05  mm.* 

Then  came  the  magnifying 
glass;  magnification  typically  5X, 
resolution  0.01  mm. 

Around  1590  a  Dutch  spec- 
tacle-maker named  Zacharias 
Janssen  invented  the  compound 
microscope.  Eventually  this  instru- 
ment increased  magnification  to 
2500X  and  resolution  to  0.0002 
mm,  figures  limited,  ultimately, 
by  the  wavelength  of  visible  light. 

And  that's  all  there  was  until 
about  three  decades  ago,  when  our 
modern  age  spawned  the  transmis- 
sion electron  microscope.  This 
gave  a  breathtaking  leap  to  about 
500.000X  with  resolution  of  2 
Angstrom  units  (one  Angstrom  = 
0.0000001  mm),  but  a  severe 
price  had  to  be  paid  in  con- 
venience. Specimen  preparation 
became  a  particularly  troublesome 
proposition. 

Metallurgical  specimens  had  to 
be    electrochcmically    reduced    in 


• 'Magnification  is  linear  magnification j 
that  is.  ij  an  i>b]f(  t  I  mm  in  length 
appean  to  be  to  mm  long,  we  say  that 
u  is  magnified  10X  Resolution  refers  to 

our  ability  to  distinguish  between  two 
lines  fir  two  points  a  given  distance 
apart 


thickness  to  about  2000  Angstrom 
units.  Biological  specimens  had  to 
be  cut  into  very  thin  sections  with 
an  ultra-microtome,  then  fixed 
with  high-density  salts.  And  to 
examine  the  surface  topology  of 
any  material,  researchers  had  to 
make  a  very  thin  plastic  replica  of 
that  surface,  shadow  it  with  a 
heavy  metal,  and  then  observe  the 
surface  indirectly.  Even  so,  the 
results  were  plagued  with  imper- 
fections which  threw  doubt  on  the 
accuracy  of  the  observed  image. 

The  scanning  electron  micro- 
scope (SEM)  became  commer- 
cially available  about  1965;  it  was 
intended  to  be  a  bridge  between 
the  optical  microscope  and  the 
transmission,  or  conventional, 
electron  microscope  (TEM).  But 
in  fact  the  SEM  is  a  completely 
different  instrument,  and  one  can- 
not make  a  part-by-part  com- 
parison with  the  other  two.  The 
operating  principle  is  so  different 
that  in  order  to  make  maximum 
use  of  the  instrument  a  whole  new 
way  of  thinking  is  required.  And 
the  SEM  has  its  own  special  char- 
acteristics that  make  it  much  more 
exciting  than  the  optical  and 
transmission  electron  microscopes. 

It  can  do  much  of  what  the 
optical  instrument  can  do,  but  at 
higher  magnifications  (140,000X) 
and  with  greater  depth  of  field. 
The  SEM  lacks  the  very  high 
resolution  of  the  TEM  (resolving 
100  Angstrom  units  at  best),  but 
specimen  preparation  is  enor- 
mously  simplified,  and  the  instru- 
ment has  such  great  depth  of  field 
that    it    lends   a    unique    sense  of 


three-dimensionality  to  the  ob- 
served image. 

Metallurgical  specimens  can  be 
observed  directly,  with  no  prepa- 
ration. Ceramic,  plastic,  and  other 
non-metallic  materials  (including 
ants,  as  we  have  seen!)  must 
simply  be  coated  with  a  thin 
conductive  layer  (a  gold-palladium 
alloy  is  used  at  WPI).  The  speci- 
mens don't  have  to  be  thinned, 
and  no  plastic  models  need  be 
made.  Quite  massive  specimens, 
approximately  1  inch  square  and 
Vi  inch  thick,  are  easily  handled. 

The  optical  microscope  is  lim- 
ited by  the  long  waves  of  visible 
light,  roughly  3000  Angstrom 
units.  The  TEM  is  limited  by  the 
wavelength  of  electrons  at  a  par- 
ticular accelerating  potential,  per- 
haps less  than  one  Angstrom.  The 
SEM  is  not  limited  by  wavelength, 
but  rather  by  the  narrowness  of  its 
electron  beam,  as  little  as  13 
Angstrom  units.  It  is  the  very 
narrowness  of  this  scanning  elec- 
tron beam  that  creates  the  great 
depth  of  field  and  the  apparent 
three-dimensional  effect  of  the 
SEM  image. 

Looking  at  the  third  dimen- 
sion of  an  object  with  the  optical 
microscope,  we  can  focus  only  on 
one  plane  at  a  time.  We  can  see 
the  peaks  of  the  "hills"  or  the 
depths  of  the  "valleys"  one  at  a 
time.  To  a  lesser  extent  this  condi- 
tion prevails  with  the  TEM.  But 
with  the  SEM  both  peaks  and 
valleys  come  into  sharp  focus  at 
the  same  time.  It  has  to  be  seen  to 
be  believed.  And  when  seen  it  is 
believed.  It  is  completely  credible. 


.et's  stop  a  moment  and  compare  these  three  close 
ip  instruments: 


)ptical  Microscope     2,500X 


.0002  mm  (2000 
Angstroms)  resolution 


ransmission 
electron  microscope    500,000X       2  Angstroms  resolution 


Scanning  electron 
nicroscope 


1 40,000X       1 00  Angstroms  resolution 


How  the  SEM  works 

The  SEM  starts  with  a  thin  hairpin 
:ungsten  filament  in  a  column 
mder  high  vacuum.  When  heated 
t  emits  electrons  which  are  accel- 
erated toward  the  anode  cap  and 
:oncentrated  into  a  fine  beam  by 
:he  magnetic  condenser  lens.  A  set 
if  deflection  coils  cause  the  beam 
:o  scan  the  specimen,  back  and 
orth  in  the  manner  of  a  television 
:amera.  Magnification  is  changed 
iimply  by  changing  the  area  of  the 


scan:  a  large  area  for  low  magnifi- 
cation, a  small  area  for  high  mag- 
nification. The  beam  strikes  the 
specimen  and  causes  it  to  emit 
"secondary"  electrons,  which  are 
collected  off  to  one  side,  con- 
verted to  photons,  and  ultimately 
into  an  electrical  signal  feeding 
either  the  TV  monitor  or  two 
parallel  cathode-ray  tubes.  One  of 
these  has  a  long-persistence  phos- 
phor for  viewing  and  focusing,  the 
other  a  short-persistence  phosphor 
for    high-resolution    photography. 


If  nothing  else,  the  SEM  is 
versatile.  The  electron  beam  strik- 
ing the  specimen  produces  second- 
ary electrons;  these  produce  the 
normal  image.  By  tilting  the  stage 
upon  which  the  specimen  is 
mounted  a  few  degrees  between 
pictures,  stereo  pairs  can  be  pro- 
duced which  give  a  truly  three- 
dimensional  view  of  the  object 
under  study.  The  electron  beam 
also  produces  back-scattered  elec- 
trons, which  produce  another  sort 
of  image.  X-rays  are  produced, 
and  the  proper  attachment  to  the 
SEM  can  produce  chemical  anal- 
yses from  these  X-rays.  With  suit- 
able connections,  semiconductor 
devices  can  be  studied  under  tran- 
sient conditions,  while  they  are 
operating.  For  complicated  sub- 
jects, the  SEM  can  be  used  to 
produce  non-pictorial  images  — 
sort  of  like  contour  maps. 


An  interesting  view  of  some  everyday  objects.  1 :  A  pigeon  feather 
at  142X  2:  A  worn  diamond  phono  stylus  at  355X.  3:  A  stainless 
steel  200  mesh  woven  wire  screen  at  336X.  4:  The  surface  of  the 
paper  this  Journal  is  printed  on,  magnified  323  times. 


Mechanical  Engineering 
and  the  Materials  Group 

lie  SEM  is  housed  in  the  mate- 
ials  engineering  section  of  Wash- 
burn under  the  direction  of  Prof, 
tonald  Biederman,  in  a  room  se- 
ated for  its  physical  stability  and 
reedom  from  stray  electrical 
ields.  (The  survey  which  dis- 
overed  this  also  uncovered  the 
urprising  fact  that  the  room 
/here  WPI's  TEM  was  housed  — 
ist  down  the  hall  —  was  one  of 
he  worst  spots  in  the  building 
rom  both  standpoints!)  The 
laterials  group,  which  specializes 
i  the  processing  and  fabrication 
f  materials,  is  currently  the  pri- 
lary  user.  According  to  Prof, 
lharles  Reynolds,  head  of  the 
roup,  they  find  the  SEM  ex- 
remely  helpful  in  examining 
ough  surface  textures  such  as  on 
lectrical-discharge  machined  sur- 
aces,  plasma-sprayed  coatings, 
'owder  metal  parts,  grinding 
/heels,  shell  molds,  machined  and 
round  surfaces  (such  as  on  bear- 
rigs)  and  corroded  and  oxidized 
urfaces.  Wear  can  be  studied  in 
letail.  Fracture  and  failure  analy- 
is,  the  study  of  the  mechanisms 
>y  which  a  material  bends,  cracks, 
>r  fractures,  is  immensely  aided. 
4ew  strengthening  mechanisms 
:an  be  examined  on  polished  and 
tched  samples.  Phenomena  such 
.s  chip  formation  and  tool  chatter 
m  machined  surfaces  can  be 
ninutely  studied. 


No,  it's  not  a  photograph  of  planets  taken 
from  a  science-fiction  movie.  At  left  are 
spheres  of  an  atomized  nickel-base 
super-alloy  powder  shown  at  198X.  Below 
is  the  same  powder  at  570X,  with  the 
center  panel  shown  at  1639  diameters 
magnification. 


10 


The  SEM  at  work  looking  at  materials. 
1 :  A  fracture  surface  in  2024  aluminum 
alloy,  shown  here  at  3375X.  2:  Another 
fracture,  this  one  in  a  less  exotic 
material — a  molded  polystyrene  spoon  at 
236X.  3:  The  oxide  layer  on  steel 
magnified  338  times.  The  outer  layer,  to 
the  right,  is  Fe-iOj  and  cuboids  of  Fe3Ot; 
the  inner  structure  is  FeO.  4:  Pear/itic 
microstructure  in  hot  rolled  1045  steel, 
photographed  at  2835  times. 


Chemical  Engineering 
and  the  Zeolite  Zealots 

One  of  the  major  areas  of  interest 
in  WPI's  chemical  engineering  de- 
partment is  in  the  study  of  zeo- 
lites, a  kind  of  crystal  with  very 
small,  uniform  pores.  Zeolites  dis- 
tinguish themselves  by  their  abil- 
ity to  adsorb  substances  such  as 
ammonia,  methane,  and  carbon 
dioxide.  (Adsorb  isn't  a  typo- 
graphical error,  by  the  way;  it's  a 
process    by    which    one   substance 


causes  another  to  adhere  to  its 
surface.  If  it  soaked  it  up,  then  the 
process  would  be  absorption.)  Be- 
cause of  this  ability,  zeolites  are 
often  referred  to  as  molecular 
sieves.  Zeolites  can  take  nitrogen 
out  of  air,  can  squeeze  out  the  last 
traces  of  water  in  the  process  of 
obtaining  bone-dry  nitrogen, 
argon,  chlorine,  and  helium,  for 
example.  Zeolites  also  act  as  cata- 
lysts, altering  the  speed  and  end- 
products  of  chemical  reactions. 
Oil  companies  have  found,  for 
instance,  that  zeolites  can  increase 
the  yield  of  gasoline  from  petro- 
leum by  20  percent  by  enabling 
more  effective  catalytic  cracking. 

These  useful  crystals  can  also 
help  in  the  fight  to  clean  up  our 
air,  by  pulling  sulphur  dioxide  and 
nitrogen  oxides  from  the  stack 
gases  of  power  stations.  They  can 
help  clean  up  NOx  from  auto 
exhausts,  C02  from  spacecraft 
cabins. 

All  this  discussion  of  zeolites 
has  a  very  real  bearing  on  the  new  ■ 
SEM.  It  appears  that  many  zeo- 
lites' properties  are  related  to  their 
physical  or  crystalline  structure. 
For  the  first  time,  the  minute 
crystals  can  be  readily  seen  and 
studied  through  SEM  images.  The 
pictures,  such  as  on  this  page, 
show  the  extraordinary  beauty 
and  symmetries  of  the  molecular 
sieve  zeolites.  Who  says  that  sci- 
ence can't  deal  with  aesthetics 
too? 


rhe  strange  beauty  of  zeolite  crystals.  Both 
pictures  show  synthetic  sodium-mordenite 
md  analcime,  above  at  1462X  and  at  right 
>t  3253  times. 


Life  Sciences: 
You  can  f reeze-dry  my 
specimens  but  I'll  have 
my  coffee  fresh-perked, 
thank  you 

From  a  layman's  point  of  view, 
perhaps  the  most  exciting  new 
window  of  perception  via  the  SEM 
is  opened  up  to  the  life  sciences 
department.  The  ant  pictures  give 
a  hint  of  the  amazing  clarity  with 
which  biological  specimens  can  be 
explored.  The  SEM  will  be  a  key 
learning  tool  in  a  unique  new 
course  (LS  3550,  Microanatomy), 
which  combines  microanatomy 
with  histology  (study  of  fibers), 
cytology  (study  of  cells),  and 
molecular  biology. 

Another  area  of  interest  in  this 
fastest-growing  of  WPI's  depart- 
ments is  the  study  and  comparison 
of  cells  undergoing  natural  devel- 
opment (such  as  division  and  dif- 
ferentiation) and  abnormal  devel- 
opment (such  as  in  cancer).  Here 
too  the  SEM  unlocks  many  other- 
wise-hidden observations. 

The  types  of  specimens  that 
life  sciences  people  deal  with, 
however,  present  a  special  prob- 
lem for  the  SEM.  Since  the  scan- 
ning beam  operates  in  a  high 
vacuum,  any  moisture  in  the  speci- 
men will  boil  off  and  contaminate 
the  chamber.  Therefore  the  speci- 
mens must  be  dried.  The  present 
process  is  chemical  in  nature,  and 
is  rather  time-consuming.  The  effi- 
cient method  is  f  reeze-dry  ing, 
wherein    the    specimen    is   frozen 


11 


and  then  placed  in  a  vacuum  so 
that  the  ice  will  sublimate,  or  pass 
directly  to  a  gaseous  state,  leaving 
the  specimen  perfectly  dry  and 
otherwise  undamaged.  Unfortu- 
nately, there  is  no  freeze-drying 
equipment  at  WPI,  and  to  obtain 
freeze-dried  specimens,  the  life  sci- 
ence people  will,  for  the  time 
being,  have  to  rely  on  coffee  and 
those  foods  carried  by  the  back- 
packing outfitters  and  mountain 
shops. 


Electrical  Engineering: 
How  do  your  crystals 
grow? 

The  integrated  circuit  is  a  micro- 
miniaturized wonder  that  may 
contain  up  to  several  hundred 
separate  electronic  components 
grown  on  the  surface  of  a  crystal 
of  semiconductor  material.  Typi- 
cally, one  of  these  crystals  is  only 
0.01  mm  square  by  0.002  mm 
thick.  The  spice  between  individ- 
ual parts  of  the  circuit  is  less  than 
the  thickness  of  a  human  hair. 
More  reliable  than  discrete  com- 
ponents, as  well  is  smaller,  they 
have  revolutionized  the-  electronics 
industry.  They  are  widely  used  in 
radar  systems,  the  space  program, 
color  TVs,  computers,  auto  safety 
systems,  and  all  forms  ot  scientific 
instrumentation. 


This  is  the  end-product  of  one  of  the 
SEM's  non-pictorial  modes,  a  V -modulation 
representation  of  a  photo-etched  copper 
grid  at  494  diameters  magnification. 


The  SEM  is  one  of  the  few 
tools  delicate  enough  to  check 
which  of  the  hundreds  of  com- 
ponents in  an  IC  may  not  be 
functioning  properly.  ICs  can  be 
inspected  while  the  circuits  are 
operating.  In  association  with  a 
computer,  the  SEM  enables  the 
design  of  circuits  which  will  use 
only  those  components  of  an  IC 
which  are  working  properly, 
avoiding  those  which  are  faulty. 
Thus  the  entire  circuit  doesn't 
have  to  be  thrown  out  for  the  lack 
of  a  few  elements,  perhaps  be- 
cause of  unavoidable  flaws  in  the 
crystal  on  which  the  components 
were  grown.  This  is  a  design 
avenue  which  is  being  actively 
investigated  by  the  major  elec- 
tronics companies  as  a  way  of 
increasing  still  further  the  com- 
plexity and  size  of  circuits  which 
can   be  grown  on  a  single  crystal. 


The  SEM  as  a 
learning  tool 

The  SEM  is  a  fascinating  technical 
instrument,  but  lots  of  other  col- 
leges have  one.  What  they  don't 
have,  though,  is  the  WPI  Plan  and 
WPI's  commitment  to  meaningful 
undergraduate  education.  As  with 
other  advanced  facilities  (such  as 
the  computer  center,  the  nuclear 
reactor,  and  Alden  Research  Labo- 
ratories), the  SEM  is  available  to 
undergraduate  students  on  a 
hands-on  basis;  it  does  not  remain 
a  "toy"  for  faculty  and  graduate 
students  alone.  It  affords  students 
a  unique  and  invaluable  resource 
for  their  projects,  and  it  will  en- 
able them  to  do  work  of  a  higher 
and  more  professional  caliber  than 
they  might  otherwise  be  able  to 
achieve. 

Prof.  Donald  Zwiep,  head  of 
the  mechanical  engineering  depart- 
ment, summarized  the  value  of  the 
instrument  in  this  fashion:  "Stu- 
dents and  faculty,  working  as  an 
academic  team,  will  indeed  be 
partners  in  probing  the  frontiers 
of  the  structure  and  properties  of 
materials  of  all  kinds.  The  scan- 
ning electron  microscope  provides 
a  natural  technological  bridge  as 
the  student  moves  from  education 
to  industry." 

Another  professor  said  it  a 
little  differently:  "What  is  needed 
more  in  education  than  the  excite- 
ment of  individual  discovery? 
That,  to  me,  is  what  the  SEM  is  all 
about."  D 


13 


rhe  surface  of  the  atomized  super-alloy  powder  shown  earlier  on 
■>age  9,  here  reproduced  at  20.000X  (enlarged  from  10.000X). 


Back  by  Popular  Demand! 


WPI's 


Intersession, 

in  the  new,  improved  1974  edition 


E3F  January  7-18 


•  More  courses! 

•  Cheaper  prices! 

•  More  sessions! 


Intersession  1974  will  take  place  January 
7-18,  with  a  total  of  four  individual  sessions 
to  be  scheduled  during  that  two-week 
period.  Once  again  WPI  offers  to  students 
and  the  community  at  large  a  wide  variety 
of  courses  to  provide  intellectual  enrichment, 
advance  avocational  interests,  or  further 
professional  competence.  Although  the 
program  is  offered  primarily  for  WPI  stu- 
dents, certain  technical  topics  have  a  strong 
attraction  for  recent  graduates  while  earlier 
graduates  will  also  find  the  business  and 
management  courses  of  interest. 

The  list  which  follows  is  selected  from  the 
total  offering  for  Intersession,  and  represents 
approximately  1/3  the  total  number  of 
courses  to  be  given  this  year.  Once  again, 
alumni  are  offered  a  reduced  rate  for  full 
tuition  courses  while  courses  of  a  general 
interest  nature  are  being  offered  at  the 
special  low  rate  of  $30.  For  more  informa- 
tion, write:  Director  of  Continuing  Educa- 
tion, Room  31 0  Boynton  Hall,  WPI,  Worces- 
ter 01609. 

The  schedule  for   Intersession    1974   is  as 

follows: 

Session  A 

Session  B 

Session  C 

Session  D 


January  7-  9 
January  10-1 1 
January  14-15 
January  16-18 


(M.Tu.W) 
(Th.F) 

(M.Tu) 
(W.Th.F) 


The  letter(s)  of  a  course  number  indicate 
during  which  session  it  is  being  given.  Thus, 
course  A400  will  be  held  during  Session  A. 
ABCD400  indicates  one  course  extending 
over  all  four  sessions. 


REGISTRATION 

You  may  apply  for  Intersession  courses 
starting  November  5  through  the  Office  of 
Continuing  Education  (Boynton  Hall  310), 
in  person  or  by  mail.  If  registering  by  mail, 
please  phone  or  write  to  request  a  registra- 
tion form  and  determine  if  space  is  available 
in  the  desired  course.  Tuition  rates,  including 
lunch  on  each  day  the  topic  is  presented, 
are  as  follows: 

$115— Regular 

95 — Regular  early  registrant  (on  or  before 

December  20) 
90 — WPI  evening  students 
80— ALUMNI   AND    PARENTS   OF  WPI 

STUDENTS 
60— The  course  CD421— Electronic 

Information  Processing 
30 — Courses  which  are  italicized 
$450— Group  rate  for  6  people  (if  registered 

on  or  before  December  20) 

NOTE:  All  participants  registering  after 
December  20  must  pay  the  regular  rate 
($115)  for  all  courses.  Tuition  rates  do  not 
include  any  extra  fees  which  may  be  asso- 
ciated with  individual  courses. 

In  all  cases,  the  lowest  tuition  rate  applies. 
Rates  are  per  topic,  independent  of  course 
duration. 


Send  to: 
Director  of  Continuing  Education 
WPI,  Worcester,  Mass.  01609 


I  would  like  more  information  about  Intersession.  Please  send  me  a    I 
copy  of  the  1974  Intersession  catalog. 


Name 


Address 


city 


l_ 


Year 


state 


zip  code         I 


ABCD405 
ABCD406 


Practical  Optical  Microscopy 
"Guten  Tag":  Introductory 
Conversational  German 
Biology,  Physics  and  Chemistry 
of  Life 

Electronic  Information 
Processing:  Physical  Principles 
and  Materials  Technology 
Astrology 

ICES  (Integrated  Civil 
Engineering  Systems) 
Maxicomputers 
Engineering  Economy 
Our  Engineering  Heritage 
Survey  of  Control  Engineering 
Modern  Russian  Literature: 
Dostoevsky  to  Solzhenitsyn 
Poetry  for  Delight  and  Wisdom 
Guide  to  High  Fidelity 
Equipment 
Biblical  Literature : 
Introduction  to  Old  Testament 
Christian  Ethics  and  Social 
Responsibilit  y 
Christianity  and  the  Occult 
Elementary  Particles 
Topics  in  Physics  of  Transistors, 
Fets  and  Microwave  Oscillators 
Technology  and  Man 's  Future 
Astronomy 
You  and  Your  Money 
Introduction  to  Organic 
Gardening 

The  American  Indian  in 
Literature 

Processing  of  Non-metallic 
Materials 
Who  is  John  Gait? 
Handwriting  Analysis:  A  Primer 
Technology  of  Human  Behavior 
Biblical  Literature:  Jewish 
Approach  to  the  Old  Testament 
Available  for  credit.    Tuition  for  italicized  co 


C429 

Unit  Operations  for 

Environmental  Problems 

C431 

Introduction  to  Product  Safety 

and  Liability 

C434* 

Scanning  Electron  Microscopy 

C435 

Survey  of  Biomedical 

Engineering 

C437 

Parody:  Sense  and  Nonsense 

C438* 

H.  G.  Wells  and  the  Science 

Fiction  Novel 

C439* 

Wilderness  and  the  American 

Mind:  An  Ecological  View  of 

Modern  American  Literature 

C447 

A  Rhetorical  Happening 

D422* 

Vitamins  and  Nutrition 

D430* 

Practical  Chemical 

Manufacture 

D431 

Glassblowing 

D433 

Computer  Operations 

D434 

Programming  the 

Programmable  Calculator 

D436* 

The  Trolley  Car:  Triumph  of 

Transport 

D437* 

Money  and  Banking:  Master 

or  Servant? 

D439 

High  Speed  Static  Relays 

D442 

Israel:  A  Modern  Perspective 

D447* 

Neutron  Activation  as 

Nondestructive  Chemical 

Analysis 

D448* 

Strain  Gages 

D450* 

Sartre  and  Camus: 

Existentialism  as  Literature 

and  History 

D451 

A  Fun  and  Games  Approach  to 

Combinatorial  Topology 

D456 

Biblical  Prophecy  and  its 

In  terpretation 

D463* 

World  Dynamics  and  the 

Limits  to  Growth 

D469* 

How  to  Finance  and  Manage  a 

Small  Business 

urses  is 

$30. 

15 


Technology  isn't  the  villain— after  all 


16 


Reprinted  from  the  February  3,  1973  issue 
of  Business  Week  by  special  permission. 
C   1973  by  McGraw-Hill,  Inc. 


Like  the  "dark  Satanic  mills"  of 
an  earlier  day,  technology  has 
been  soundly  drubbed  by  environ- 
mentalists these  last  few  years. 
Barry  Commoner,  casting  tech- 
nology as  villain  in  his  book,  The 
Closing  Circle,  censured  alumi- 
num, chemicals,  and  other  high- 
polluting,  energy-intensive  in- 
dustries. Innumerable  others  have 
flayed  the  internal  combustion 
engine,  turning  it  into  the  most 
villified  machine  since  the  Lud- 
dites smashed  their  knitting 
frames.  And  the  SST  is  still  seen 
by  many  as  a  symbol  of  runaway 
technology. 

Lately,  though,  a  remarkable 
resurgence  of  faith  in  technology 
seems  to  be  occurring  among  some 
environmentalists.  Is  there  an 
energy  crisis?  Well,  bring  on  geo- 
thermal  power,  solar  power,  nu- 
clear fusion,  and  even  tidal  power. 
Want     to     curb    auto    pollution? 


As  understanding  of  environmental  problems 
grows,  the  public  is  realizing  that  while 
technology  may  have  been  the  cause,  it  is 
also  the  only  answer. 


Build  Stirling-cycle  engines  or 
develop  lithium  batteries.  Even 
the  1972  Water  Pollution  Control 
Act  genuflects  to  the  technologi- 
cal gods:  It  calls  for  the  total 
elimination  of  effluents  by  man- 
dating the  "best-available  tech- 
nology." Suddenly,  technology 
has  gone  from  villain  to  savior. 

Why  the  changed  mood?  How 
valid  is  it?  Were  the  original  criti- 
cisms misguided? 


Unused  technologies.     At 

the  first  Earth  Day  nearly  three 
years  ago,  much  of  the  anti-tech- 
nology talk  was  simply  "back-to- 
nature"  longing,  human  frustra- 
tions vented  at  a  mechanized 
world.  Later,  more  thoughtful 
critics  posed  two  arguments.  One, 
exemplified  in  the  SST  debate, 
was  that  technology  has  become  a 
juggernaut.  The  Sierra  Club,  En- 
vironmental Action,  and  other 
groups  charged  that  a  "technologi- 
cal determinism"  had  taken  hold: 
If  we  were  capable  of  doing  some- 
thing, we  did  it,  without  due 
regard  to  the  social  consequences. 
Like  Mt.  Everest,  the  technologi- 
cal heights  were  scaled  just  be- 
cause they  were  there. 

The  second  argument,  ad- 
vanced by  Commoner,  held  that 
industry,  in  pursuit  of  higher  prof- 
its and  productivity,  had  displaced 
older  technologies  with  more  en- 
vironmentally damaging  products 
and  processes  (Business  Week, 
Oct.  23,  1971).  Thus,  phosphate 
detergents    displaced    soap,    one 


way  bottles  and  cans  outsold  re- 
turnables,  gasoline-gulping  cars 
muscled  out  economy  vehicles, 
non-degradable  plastics  replaced 
paper  packaging,  synthetic  fibers 
won  markets  from  cotton  and 
wool,  and  energy-intensive  alumi- 
num production  took  over  from 
steel  and  lumber.  These  technolog- 
ical shifts,  Commoner  said,  were 
more  important  than  either  popu- 
lation or  economic  growth  in 
bringing  on  the  environmental 
crisis. 

Though  Commoner's  analysis 
was  at  least  partly  true,  he  failed 
to  see  that  the  crisis  was  also  due 
to  our  failure  to  use  the  tech- 
nology we  already  had.  To  this 
day,  one-third  of  all  Americans 
^including  the  residents  of  Man- 
hattan) have  no  primary  sewage 
treatment  —  even  though  the  tech- 
nology has  been  available  for  dec- 
ades. Similarly,  some  utilities  have 
not  installed  stack  controls  —  even 
though  precipitators  were  in- 
dented nearly  50  years  ago.  Fur- 
thermore, though  some  control 
technology  is  presently  unavail- 
able, Commoner  did  not  recognize 
that  effective  regulation  could 
spur  its  development. 

This  is  now  happening  at  a 
rapid  rate,  which  may  explain  the 
new  faith.  Some  of  the  advances 
are  complex  Band  Aids,  such  as 
equipment  to  scrub  stack  gases  or 
catalytic  devices  to  purge  auto 
emissions. 

But  increasingly,  engineers  are 
going  much  further,  designing 
totally  new  processes.  Inland  Steel 
Co.,  for  instance,  is  using  a  process 


developed  by  Coaltek  Associates 
that  sharply  cuts  pollution  from 
coke  ovens.  TRW,  Inc.,  under  a 
grant  from  the  Environmental  Pro- 
tection Agency,  has  found  a  way 
to  remove  sulfur  from  coal  before 
burning  —  a  process  the  EPA 
estimates  will  enable  40%  of  high- 
sulfur  Eastern  coal  to  be  burned 
without  violating  1975  air  quality 
standards.  Last  month  alone,  two 
advances  were  announced  that 
merit  the  term  breakthrough.  Al- 
coa developed  a  new  aluminum 
smelting  process  that  uses  30%  less 
energy  and  eliminates  fluoride 
emissions.  And  Anaconda  unveiled 
a  chemical  process  for  leaching 
copper  from  ore  without  creating 
any  sulfur  oxides  —  the  bane  of 
traditional  copper  smelting. 

As  these  examples  show,  envi- 
ronmental imperatives  are  forcing 
industry  to  look  at  their  processes 
from  a  radically  different  perspec- 
tive. Environmental  impact  is  now 
a  critical  design  factor  along  with 
economic  feasibility  —  and  both 
serve  as  checks  on  "technological 
determinism."  Moreover,  produc- 
tion approaches  once  deemed  too 
costly  may  now  be  attractive, 
compared  with  the  alternative  of 
expensive  treatment  facilities. 
"The  incentive  exists  for  a  com- 
plete rethinking  in  many  indus- 
tries," says  EPA's  Robert  Sansom. 


Unreasonable  faith.         As 

welcome  as  all  these  changes  are, 
the  new  technological  optimism 
has    its    dangers.    For    one,    new 


developments  have  a  nasty  habit 
of  creating  unforeseen  side  effects. 
And  as  EPA  Administrator  Wil- 
liam D.  Ruckelshaus  points  out, 
unreasonable  faith  can  lull  people 
into  thinking  there  is  a  "techno- 
logical fix"  for  every  problem. 

Unfortunately,  there  isn't. 
Even  a  pollution-free  car  will  not 
eliminate  the  environmental  dam- 
age cars  do  to  cities.  No  technol- 
ogy is  likely  to  keep  up  with 
energy  demands  that  double  every 
decade.  Nor  can  technology  fully 
succeed  in  recycling  solid  waste  so 
long  as  tax  laws,  freight  rates,  and 
consumer  habits  continue  to  dis- 
courage conservation.  In  short, 
new  attitudes  toward  consump- 
tion, economic  growth,  and  life 
style  may  eventually  prove  as  im- 
portant as  new  technology. 

Perhaps  the  lesson  in  all  this  is 
that  technology,  though  no 
panacea,  can  respond  to  some 
environmental  demands.  Properly 
directed  by  business  and  govern- 
ment, it  can  undo  much  of  the 
environmental  damage  it  once 
wrought.  Neither  villain  nor 
savior,  technology  is  one  practical 
means  to  an  enlightened  end.      D 


17 


Completed 
Careers 


LANCE  W.   STAUGHTON,   '06 

Lance  W.  Staughton,  a  retired  chief  engineer 
for  Rockwood  Sprinkler  Systems  in  New 
York  and  Worcester,  died  in  Shrewsbury, 
Massachusetts  on  July  15,  1973.  He  was 
89  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Melbourne,  Australia. 
Later  he  studied  at  WPI.  After  45  years  of 
service,  he  retired  from  Rockwood  in  1954. 
He  had  been  head  of  the  cost  analysis 
department  since  1939. 

Mr.  Staughton  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity. 

CLINTON    D.   SMITH,   "12 

Clinton  D.  Smith,  the  former  vice  president 
of  Schuylkill  Valley  Lines,  Inc.,  Norristown, 
Pa.,  passed  away  in  East  Stroudsburg, 
Pennsylvania  on  May  28,  1973. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer,  he  became  associated  with  Public 
Service  Co.  of  New  Jersey;  Pennsylvania- 
Ohio  Power  &  Light  Co.,  Youngstown, 
Ohio;  Beaver  Valley  Traction  Co.,  New 
Brighton,  Pa.;  Cleveland  Railway  Co.;  and 
Western  Railway  Co.  Following  his  retire- 
mentfrom  Schuylkill,  he  was  a  self-employed 
transportation  and  research  consultant. 

Mr.  Smith  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau 
Beta  Pi.  He  was  past  president  of  the 
Norristown  Chamber  of  Commerce,  the 
Operating  Division  American  Transit  Asso- 
ciation, and  the  Pennsylvania  Bus  Associa- 
tion. He  also  had  served  as  president  of  the 
Philadelphia  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation. 

ARTHUR    B.   SCHOFIELD,   '13 

Arthur  B.  Schofield,  81,  died  July  2,  1  973  at 
Miami  Beach,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  May  30, 
1892.  In  1913  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a 
civil  engineer.  He  served  for  over  two  years 
as  a  lieutenant  in  the  Corps  of  Engineers  in 
the  French  Theatre  in  World  War  I. 

From  1922  until  1937  he  was  a  partner 
and  treasurer  in  the  E.  H.  Clement  Construc- 
tion Co.  in  Charlotte,  N.C.  He  then  retired  to 
Miami  Beach  where  he  lived  until  his  death. 

Mr.  Schofield,  a  loyal  supporter  of  WPI, 
was  the  cousin  of  MALCOLM  B.  ARTHUR, 
'20. 


FREDERIC   L.    HOLBROOK,   '17 

Frederic  L.  Holbrook  died  May  14,  1973  in 
Connecticut. 

A  Boston  native,  he  later  studied  chemistry 
at  WPI.  After  graduation  he  worked  a  short 
time  as  a  chemist  for  Goodyear  Tire  & 
Rubber  Co.  He  then  was  with  the  chemical 
warfare  department  of  the  U.S.  Army.  From 
1919  until  1960  he  served  as  a  chemist, 
rubber  technologist,  and  manager  of  rubber 
chemicals  sales  service  for  U.S.  Rubber  Co. 
(now  Uniroyal). 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American  Chemi- 
cal Society,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma  Xi.  He 
was  the  cousin  of  HARRISON  E.  HOL- 
BROOK,'44. 

ERNEST   C.    BARKER,   '24 

i 

Ernest  C.  Barker  passed  away  on  May  19, 
1973  in  Escondido,  California. 

He  was  born  on  Dec.  4,  1901  in  Worces- 
ter. After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer,  he  worked  for  General 
Electric  Co.  Later  he  was  associated  with 
the  Association  of  American  Railroads; 
Gerrard  Steel  Strapping,  Division  of  U.S. 
Steel  Corporation,  Chicago,  where  he  was 
chief  engineer;  and  U.S.  Steel  Supply, 
Chicago,  where  he  was  a  research  and 
development  engineer. 

Mr.  Barker  was  a  member  of  ASME,  Tau 
Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi. 

CARROLL   C.   TUCKER,   '24 

Carroll    C.    Tucker,    retired    chief    engineer 
for  Reed  &  Prince  Manufacturing  Co.,  died       ' 
June  11,  1973  in  Worcester. 

He  was  born  on  April  30,  1902  in  Brook- 
field,  Vt.  After  studying  at  WPI  he  took 
courses  at  MIT,  Boston  University,  and 
Northeastern  University. 

Mr.  Tucker  was  associated  with  the  Reed 
&  Prince  engineering  department  for  10 
years  before  being  named  chief  engineer  in 
1965.  He  retired  from  the  Worcester  firm  in 
1972.  Previously  he  was  with  Matthews 
Manufacturing  Co.,  Raytheon  Co.,  and 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  Division. 

A  registered  professional  engineer,  Mr. 
Tucker  was  past  president  of  the  Worcester  , 
Engineering  Society.  He  belonged  to  the 
American  Society  of  Metals,  Worcester 
County  Mechanics  Association,  American 
Standard  Association,  and  the  Tech  Old 
Timers'  Club. 


MAURICE   E.   GODDARD,   '25 

yiaurice  E.  Goddard  died  on  January  18, 
973  in  Evergreen  Park,  Illinois. 

Born  in  Winchendon,  Mass.,  on  October 
7,  1902,  he  later  graduated  as  a  civil  engi- 
eer  from  WPI.  He  was  employed  by  the 
Jationai  Board  of  Fire  Underwriters;  the 
Chicago  Board  of  Underwriters;  and  from 
929  until  1968  by  the  Factory  Insurance 
association,  Chicago,  where  he  was  super- 
itendent  of  the  Inspection  Department. 

Mr.  Goddard  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
appa  Fraternity.  He  was  a  former  secretary- 
easurer  of  the  Detroit  Chapter  of  the 
Jumni  Association. 

WILLIAM  R.  HUTTON,  '29 

i/illiam  R.  Hutton  passed  away  last  winter 

i  New  York. 

He  was  born  in  Manchester,  Conn.  After 
raduating  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
eer,  he  joined  The  Buffalo  Forge  Co.,  Buf- 
ilo,  N.Y.  From  1933  until  his  retirement 
jveral  years  ago  he  was  with  The  Coon- 
eVisser  Co.,  Detroit,  where  he  served  as 
resident  and  treasurer.  At  the  time  of  his 
eath  he  was  living  at  The  Farm  Bell,  his 
ome  in  Dewittville,  N.Y. 

Mr.  Hutton  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
mega.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the 
■etroit  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 


HARRY  A.   SMITH,   JR.,   '34 

Harry  A.  Smith,  Jr.,  62,  died  June  8,  1973, 
in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts. 

A  lifelong  resident  of  Pittsfield,  he  at- 
tended WPI,  and  was  later  employed  by  the 
General  Electric  Co.  for  38  years.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  was  a  production 
supervisor  for  the  power  transformer  depart- 
ment. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  G.  E.  Quarter 
Century  Club,  GEAA,  and  Phi  Kappa  Theta 
Fraternity.  In  World  War  II  he  served  with 
the  104th  Infantry  Division. 

STANLEY   M.   TERRY,   '40 

Stanley  M.  Terry,  55,  former  manager  of 
engineering  at  American  Bosch  Division  of 
AMBAC,  Springfield,  Mass.,  died  in  July  at 
his  home  in  Dayton,  Maine. 

He  owned  several  patents,  including  one 
on  a  heavy  alternator  which  is  being 
marketed  by  Maremont  Corp.  in  Saco,  Me. 

He  joined  American  Bosch  in  1950  and 
became  manager  of  engineering  in  1957.  In 
1959  he  resigned  to  join  R.  E.  Phelon  Co., 
East  Longmeadow,  Mass.  He  rejoined 
American  Bosch  in  1961  as  manager  of 
electrical  engineering.  Two  years  ago  he 
became  associated  with  Maremont  Corp., 
Saco,  as  manager  of  special  products  and 
director  of  electrical  products,  research  and 
development. 

Mr.  Terry  was  born  in  Sturbridge,  Mass., 
on  January  21,  1918.  He  received  his  BS 
in  electrical  engineering  from  WPI.  He  was 
a  member  of  AIEE,  the  Society  of  Automo- 
tive Engineers,  American  Institute  of  Aero- 
nautics and  Astronautics  and  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha  Fraternity. 


GEORGE  C.   LOWE,  '46 

George  C.  Lowe,  49,  chief  industrial  engineer 
for  the  Thorn  McAn  Division  of  Melville 
Shoe  Corp.,  Worcester,  passed  away  in 
Worcester  on  June  8,  1 973. 

The  Worcester  native  received  a  degree  in 
chemical  engineering  from  WPI  in  1946.  He 
was  employed  by  William  Allen  Son's  Co., 
Worcester,  where  he  designed  a  new  type 
of  dyer  which  reduced  by  25  per  cent  the 
time  needed  to  color  woolen  fibers  for 
clothing.  Later  he  was  plant  engineer  at 
Bell  Co.  and  superintendent  for  the  Paper- 
craft  Greeting  Card  Co. 

Mr.  Lowe  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society  and  the  National  Rifle 
Association.  He  was  a  World  War  II  Navy 
veteran. 

JOHN    K.    LELAND,   '55 

John  K.  Leland,  46,  died  in  June  while 
visiting  in  Tampa,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester,  earned  a 
degree  in  chemical  engineering  from  WPI, 
and  most  recently  was  with  Collagen,  Inc., 
in  Boston.  Earlier  he  had  worked  at  Bethle- 
hem Steel  Co.;  the  U.S.  Navy  Propellant 
Plant,  Indian  Head,  Md.;  and  Atlantic 
Research  Corp. 

Mr.  Leland  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  II 
and  the  Korean  War.  He  had  served  as 
president  of  the  Washington  (D.C.)  Chapter 
of  the  Alumni  Association. 


19 


1912 


1933 


Your  Class 
and  Others 


20 


J.  FRANCIS  GRANGER  was  recently 
honored  at  the  13th  annual  (Mass.)  High- 
way Officials  Workshop  Conference  where 
his  successful  planning  of  the  conference 
was  cited  before  the  group.  Although  Mr. 
Granger  retired  as  superintendent  of  streets 
and  city  engineer  in  Marlboro  (Mass.)  in 
1960,  he  has  continued  to  be  active  profes- 
sionally in  the  important  role  of  secretary  of 
the  Massachusetts  Highway  Association. 


1920 


BURTON  W.  MARSH  is  on  the  executive 
committee  of  the  National  Committee  on 
Uniform  Traffic  Laws  and  Ordinances. 
Formerly  he  was  chairman  of  the  committee. 
...  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ALBERT  L.  WOODWARD 
celebrated  their  50th  wedding  anniversary 
June  30  at  an  informal  tea  in  Cranston,  R.I. 


1929 


DR.  ARTHUR  H.  BURR  has  been  named 
Hiram  Sibley  professor  of  mechanical  engi- 
neering, emeritus,  at  Cornell  University's 
College  of  Engineering.  A  veteran  of  almost 
35  years  of  teaching,  he  has  held  engineer- 
ing positions  in  universities  across  the 
United  States  and  in  Latin  America.  He  also 
served  as  chairman  of  the  department  of 
machine  design  from  1947  to  1968  at 
Cornell  and  has  written  a  textbook,  Ad- 
vanced Mechanical  Analysis.  This  fall  he 
will  join  the  staff  of  the  University  of  the 
Americas  in  Puebla,  Mexico. 


1930 


DR.  PHILIP  M.  SEAL  has  retired  as  a  pro- 
fessor of  electrical  engineering  at  Norwich 
University,  Northfield,  Vt.  He  joined  the 
faculty  in  1956.  Earlier  he  had  taught  at  the 
University  of  Maine  and  Purdue.  He  also  had 
professional  experience  with  several  elec- 
trical manufacturing  companies.  .  .  .  THEO- 
DORE J.  MESH,  who  was  formerly  with 
Gilbarco,  Inc.,  Greensboro,  N.C.,  has  re- 
tired. 


LINVAL  D.  HARVEY,  senior  vice  president- 
administration  for  Allendale  Insurance  Com- 
pany (the  world's  largest  mutual  insurer  of 
industrial  properties)  saw  his  years  of 
planning  as  a  project  administrator  come  to 
a  happy  conclusion  the  first  week  in  June. 
That  week  marked  the  opening  and  dedica- 
tion of  his  company's  new  corporate  head- 
quarters at  Allendale  Park,  Johnston,  R.I. 
Mr.  Harvey,  who  had  supervised  the  devel- 
opment of  the  project  since  1969,  has  been 
listed  in  both  Who's  Who  in  the  East  and 
Who's  Who  in  Finance  and  Industry. 


1934 


C.  EUGENE  PARTA  retired  last  year  as  both 
a  civilian  and  a  Commander  in  the  U.S. 
Naval     Reserve.    Currently    he    resides    in 

Manassas,  Va LOUIS  PRESS  has  retired 

from  the  Connecticut  State  Department  of 
Health  and  is  now  employed  with  the 
Hartford  Insurance  Group  as  laboratory 
supervisor  in  the  recently  opened  Industrial 
Hygiene  Chemistry  Laboratory. 


1935 


THEODORE  R.  LATOUR  retired  in  May 
from  the  DuPont  Company  following  37 
years  of  service.  At  the  time  of  his  retire- 
ment he  was  senior  chemist  in  the  dacron 
plant's  process  section  in  Kinston,  N.C.  He 
joined  DuPont  at  Richmond,  Va.,  in  1  935  as 
a  spinning  operator  and  was  later  made 
foreman  and  then  chemist  before  trans- 
ferring to  Alabama  Ordnance  Works  in 
1942.  Later  he  worked  at  Yerkes  Laboratory 
at  Buffalo,  N.Y.,  and  the  Seaford  (Del.) 
nylon  plant.  .  .  .  JAMES  J.  GUSHAW,  who 
has  recently  been  making  his  home  in 
Toronto,  Canada,  and  in  Long  Island  and 
Staten  Island,  N.Y.,  is  being  transferred  back 
to  the  main  offices  of  Sverdrup  &  Parcel 
Consulting  Engineers  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 
He  is  a  principal  engineer  and  project 
manager  with  the  company.  In  June  the 
Gushaws  attended  their  son  James'  gradua- 
tion at  Stanford  University  in  California. 


Miller  gets  teed  off 


1939 


^.  L.  "JIM"  MILLER,  '1  5,  is  a  swinger.  Ask 
nyone  at  Bob  O'Link  Golf  Club  in  Highland 
'ark,  Illinois.  At  80  he  still  breaks  80  out  on 
he  fairway,  and  he  does  it  regularly  at  Bob 
)'Link  almost  every  afternoon. 

When  Miller  isn't  teeing  off,  he  can  be 
ound  working  several  hours  a  day  at  his 
isurance  office  in  Chicago's  loop.  Not  be- 
ause  he  has  to,  but  because  he  wants  to. 
im  Miller  isn't  about  to  give  in  to  anything, 
lduding  Father  Time. 

It's  that  never-say-die  attitude  that  has 
lade  him  such  a  good  competitor  both  in 
nd  out  of  business.  Just  eight  short  years 
go,  at  a  young  72,  he  won  the  36-hole 
ualifying  medal  at  the  U.S.  Golf  Associa- 
on's  Senior  Championship.  Fifteen  times 
e's  won  the  club  championship  at  Bob 
'Link  and  once  he  played  to  a  scratch 
andicap  for  20  years.  He  still  smiles  recall- 
ig  the  exhilaration  of  leading  the  last  four 
oles  in  the  qualifying  round  of  the  Senior 
hampionship  in  Portland  back  in  '64. 

There  are  other  memories,  some  not  so 
right.  He  remembers  the  embarrassment  of 
riving  a  ball  into  the  lake  at  Medinah  when 
e  was  playing  with  Johnny  Revolta  in  the 
.S.  Open  qualifying  event  in  1930. 


Miller,  who  is  a  director  of  the  Chicago 
District  Golf  Association  and  a  member  of  the 
USGA's  handicap  committee,  has  played 
with  the  legendary  Ben  Hogan,  Byron 
Nelson,  and  Walter  Hagan.  However,  he 
still  takes  golf  lessons. 

"The  experts  can  see  what  I'm  doing 
wrong  when  I  might  not  be  able  to  feel  it," 
he  says. 

On  the  other  hand,  he  gives  instructions, 
too.  Every  week  he  can  be  found  teaching 
golf  at  the  local  Veterans'  Administration 
Hospital.  And  three  times  each  summer  he 
teaches  vets  at  Hines  and  Great  Lakes. 

He  admits,  though,  that  he  is  slowing 
down  a  little.  His  handicap  is  now  ap- 
proaching eight  and  a  couple  of  years  ago 
he  succumbed  to  the  electric  golf  cart.  Age 
has  finally  forced  him  from  participating  in 
the  U.S.  Amateur  Championship,  but  he 
still  looks  forward  to  his  playing  dates  at  the 
North-South  Amateur  at  Pinehurst,  Fred 
Waring's  four-ball  event  at  Shawnee-on- 
the-Delaware,  and  the  Senior  Tournament. 

For  over  fifty  years  Jim  Miller  has  been 
out  on  the  greens  as  well  as  on  the  job  with 
New  England  Life. 

"Golf  and  insurance,"  he  says,  "are  in 
my  blood." 


L936 


1937 


OHN  R.  BRAND,  director  of  engineering 
evelopment  at  DuPont's  Engineering  De- 
slopment  Laboratory,  has  been  named  a 
ellow  of  the  American  Society  of  Mechani- 
al  Engineers.  (There  are  only  about  1000 
ellows  in  ASME,  which  has  a  total  mem- 
ership  of  58,000.)  Mr.  Brand  has  been 
'ith  DuPont  for  36  years  and  during  his 
areer  he  has  made  "significant  contribu- 
ons  in  the  fields  of  processes  and  equip- 
lent  for  manufacture  of  sporting  firearms, 
hotographic  products,  synthetic  textile 
bers,  and  polymeric  film." 


FRANCIS  S.  HARVEY  has  been  elected  to 
the  permanent  board  of  investment  at  Bay 
State  Savings  Bank  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  IVER 
T.  ROSENLUND  works  for  E.  I.  duPont  de 
Nemours  &  Co.  at  their  Chambers  Works  in 
Deepwater,  N.J. 


1938 


CHARLES  C.  BONIN  is  now  chairman  of 
the  board  at  Chemico,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
ARTHUR  A.  DAVIS  has  been  appointed  to 
the  staff  of  the  distribution  services  group  at 
Summerour  &  Associates,  management 
consultants,  in  Atlanta. 


JOHN  M.  DRISCOLL  was  recently  elected 
a  senior  vice  president  of  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  Corp.,  Boston.  He  is  respon- 
sible for  management  of  the  firm's  process 
industries  group.  This  includes  engineering, 
procurement,  construction  and  sales  in  the 
United  States,  Far  East,  and  Latin  America. 
He  joined  the  company  in  1970  as  a  vice 
president  and  manager  of  its  process 
industries  group. 


1940 


HARDING  B.  JENKINS  spent  January, 
February,  and  March  in  Manila  on  an  Inter- 
national Executive  Service  Corps  assign- 
ment. He  found  Manila  a  great  place  to  be 
during  that  time  of  the  year,  and  discovered 
that  the  IESC  program  is  an  excellent  way  to 
get  to  know  and  appreciate  the  problems  of 
a  developing  nation. 


1941 


HAROLD  E.  ROBERTON,  JR.,  who  retired 
as  a  military  meteorologist  (Lt.  Col.)  after 
20  years  of  service,  has  spent  the  past  10 
years  building  a  new  career  in  the  invest- 
ment field  in  Spokane,  Washington.  Re- 
cently he  was  named  coordinator  of  invest- 
ment counseling  for  Murphey  Favre,  Inc.,  an 
investment  firm.  In  this  new  capacity  he 
supervises  millions  of  dollars  of  investments 
for  the  various  pension,  retirement  and  en- 
dowment funds  as  well  as  individual  ac- 
counts. During  his  career  he  has  been 
associated  with  the  U.S.  Rubber  Co.  and 
the  Old  National  Bank  of  Washington, 
where  he  was  head  of  the  investment 
section. 


21 


Forging  for  the 
new  generation  of 
turbine  engines 


Wyman  Gordon's  mechanical/metallurgical  skills 
have  allowed  designers  and  fabricators  to  stretch 
the  level  of  turbine  technology— on  land,  on  the  sea 
and  in  the  air. 

Wyman  Gordon  will  be  producing  the  super- 
strength  and  supersize  forgings  needed  as  land- 
based  gas  turbines  take  the  next  giant  step  into 
their  "new  generation." 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS 


1944 


VILLIAM  A.  HERMONAT  has  joined  the 
ales  staff  of  Di  Mambro  Realty,  Rochester, 
J.H.  Previously  he  was  with  U.S.  Rubber, 
Vasco  Chemical,  Sanford,  Me.,  and  Fire- 
tone  International ALFRED  F.  LARKIN 

/as  recently  named  vice  president-lnter- 
ational  of  Rexnord,  Inc.  He  joined  Rexnord 
1  1947  with  the  Rollerchain  division  in 
Vorcester.  After  holding  several  production 
nd  management  positions,  he  was  assigned 
jsponsibility  for  the  formation  of  the  com- 
any's  first  overseas  manufacturing  opera- 
on  in  Italy.  Later  he  was  a  division  manager 
i  Pennsylvania.  In  1971  he  was  elected 
xecutive  vice  president  of  Rexnord- 
lternational. 


L945 


OBERT    A.     STENGARD     is    in     market 
evelopment  at  Uniroyal,  Naugatuck,  Conn. 


L946 


/ILLIAM  G.  DALY  is  now  vice-president- 
Derations  for  Riviana  Foods,  Inc.,  Houston, 

axas WILLIAM  R.  GROGAN,  Dean  of 

ndergraduate  Studies  at  WPI,  has  been 
ected  to  the  Board  of  Trustees  at  Bay 
tate  Savings  Bank,  Worcester.  .  .  .  PRES- 
OTT  E.  GROUT,  formerly  assistant  pro- 
■ssor  of  philosophy  at  Nichols  College, 
udley,  Mass.,  has  joined  a  Worcester 
gency  of  the  Massachusetts  Mutual  Life 
isurance  Co.  Previously  he  was  pastor  of 
le  First  United  Methodist  Church  in 
eabody  and  the  Methodist  Church  in 
/hitinsville,  Mass.  .  .  .  DR.  ROBERT  B. 
AYWARD  has  been  elected  to  the  Keuka 
ollege  Board  of  Trustees.  He  is  a  registered 
tpresentative  of  DeHaven  &  Townsend, 
router  &  Bodine.  .  .  .  Currently  RICHARD 
I.  UNDERWOOD  is  vice  president  market- 
g  services,  Honeywell,  Inc.,  Wellesley 
ills,  Mass.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  WACLAWEK  is 
•esently  associated  with  Clark  Equipment 
o.,  Buchanan,  Michigan. 


Slotnick  '53 


1948 


RICHARD  K.  HORNE  is  a  field  engineer- 
machine  tools  for  Cincinnati  Milacron  in 
St.  Louis,  Missouri.  .  .  .  ALFRED  D.  RIGGS 
has  been  assigned  to  handle  southern 
California  accounts  (aerospace  sales)  for 
Wyman-Gordon  Co.  from  the  company's 
San  Diego  office. 


1949 


Married:  CHARLES  C.  ALLEN  to  Mrs. 
Evelyn  Adams  on  May  12  in  Scotia,  New 
York.  Mrs.  Allen  graduated  from  Eastman 
School  of  Music  and  the  University  of 
Rochester  and  is  a  piano  teacher  in  Scotia. 
Mr.  Allen  is  with  the  G.  E.  Research  and 
Development  Center. 

DR.  FRANCIS  F.  CARINI  works  for  Xerox 
Corporation.  .  .  .  ROBERT  W.  COOK  has 
been  employed  by  Gould,  Inc.,  Cleveland, 
Ohio.  .  .  .  JOHN  C.  OTOOLE  is  the  current 
head  of  the  Worcester  County  Engineering 
Department.  He  joined  the  department  in 
1951. 


1950 


RICHARD  CONNELL  is  engineering  man- 
ager at  W   &   H   Conveyor  Systems,   New 

York  City ELI  S.  SANDERSON  currently 

serves  as  manager  of  facilities  and  services 
at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 


195?, 


RICHARD  C.  BOUTIETTE  has  been  reap- 
pointed director  of  the  Wakefield  (Mass.) 
Department  of  Public  Works  for  another 
three  years.  Since  going  to  Wakefield  from 
Reading  in  1961,  he  has  achieved  national 
recognition  for  innovations.  His  plan  for  a 
unique  snowplowing  school  has  been 
adopted  by  other  communities.  Previously 
he  was  associated  with  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Public  Works  and  Edward 
and  Kelcey,  consulting  engineers.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer,  he  is  currently 
the  president  of  the  New  England  Public 
Works  Association.  .  .  .  CASTLE  MOORE, 
JR.  works  as  a  regional  manager  for  Fritz 
W.  Glitsch  &  Sons  in  Paramus,  N.J. 


1953 


DR.  JOHN  J.  GREGORY  has  been  named 
director  of  the  cardiopulmonary  laboratory 
at  Overlook  Hospital  in  Summit,  N.J.  Dr. 
Gregory  is  board  certified  in  cardiovascular 
diseases  by  the  American  Board  of  Internal 
Medicine.  He  is  a  Fellow  of  the  American 
College  of  Cardiography,  American  College 
of  Physicians  and  the  American  College  of 
Chest  Physicians.  He  is  co-author  of  a 
classic  textbook  entitled.  Cardiology — A 
Clinico-Physiological  Approach.  ...  DR. 
HERBERT  SLOTNICK,  a  chemist  at  Central 
Connecticut  State  College  in  New  Britain, 
was  chosen  to  participate  in  a  national  10- 
week  summer  program  which  was  held  at 
Dominion  University-Langley  Research  Cen- 
ter, Hampton,  Va.  The  program  is  sponsored 
by  the  National  Aeronautics  &  Space  Ad- 
ministration (NASA)  and  the  American 
Society  for  Engineering  Education  (ASEE) 
and  is  designed  to  stimulate  an  exchange  of 
ideas  between  the  participating  faculty 
research  fellows  and  NASA.  Dr.  Slotnick  has 
received  National  Science  Foundation  fund- 
ing for  previous  research  undertaken  at 
summer  institutes.  Widely  published  in  pro- 
fessional journals,  he  also  serves  on  the 
Scientific  Advisory  Council  of  the  Talcott 
Mountain  Science  Center  in  Avon,  Conn. 


1954 


PAUL  G.  GRANFORS  is  with  American 
Biltrite  Rubber  Co.  B.I. P.  Division,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass. 


1955 


Married:  ROBERT  K.  NEUNHERZ  to  Miss 
Rose  Marie  Esposito  in  Lunenburg,  Massa- 
chusetts on  June  23,  1973.  Mrs.  Neunherz 
is  an  assistant  professor  at  Fitchburg  (Mass.) 
State  College.  Her  husband  is  an  executive 
with  Gem  Industries. 

JOHN  C.  CALHOUN  has  been  named 
New  England  branch  supervisor  for  Cincin- 
nati Inc.  Formerly  he  was  with  Cincinnati 
Milacron,  Heald  Division,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
ROBERTW.  GUSTAFSONisa  self-employed 
contractor  in  South  Dennis,  Mass. 


23 


1956 


JOSEPH  A.  MARCOTTE  now  works  for 
American  Biltrite  Rubber  Co.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  A.  WAKE,  division  manager 
director  for  Cincinnati  Milacron-Heald,  is 
presently  located  in  England. 


1957 


J.  GORDON  SMITH  works  for  Litton  Tech- 
nische  Werke,  Freiburg  in  Breisgau,  West 
Germany.  He,  his  wife,  Janice,  and  three 
children,  Tina,  10,  Gordon,  8,  and  Gregory, 
5,  will  be  living  in  Germany  for  two  years. 


1958 


DAVID  B.  DENNISTON  is  with  Digital 
Equipment  of  Australia.  .  .  .  RICHARD  A. 
PRATT  owns  a  resort  motel  in  Bolton  Land- 
ing, N.Y RICHARD  A.  HAMMOND  has 

been  promoted  to  vice  president  of  manu- 
facturing at  Tempstat  Corp.,  Hinsdale,  N.H. 
Last  November  he  joined  the  small  company 
which  produces  temperature  and  pressure 
control  valves  as  well  as  other  energy  control 
valves.  The  firm  is  planning  to  build  a  new 
plant. 


1959 


DAVID  A.  BAREISS  is  supervisor  corporate 
materials  management  at  Combustion  Engi- 
neering, Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  WINDLE  B. 
PRIEM,  former  vice  president  of  Marine 
Midland  Bank,  New  York,  has  been  named 
regional  director  of  Region  II  of  the  U.S. 
Small  Business  Administration  with  head- 
quarters in  New  York.  He  has  served  as 
deputy  director  of  the  New  York  region  since 
joining  SBA  last  year.  He  will  now  direct 
SBA's  financial,  investment,  contracting  and 
management  programs.  .  .  CLESSON  A. 
ROBBINS,  SIM,  has  been  promoted  to  frame 
plant  manager  for  the  optical  products 
division  of  American  Optical  Corp  ,  South- 
bridge,  Mass.  He  had  been  manager  of  tool 
rooms  and  machine  shops.  He  has  been 
with  the  company  for  25  years.  .  .  .  DAVID 


A.  SAWIN  was  recently  elected  assistant 
vice  president  of  Worcester  Bancorp,  Inc. 
He  will  be  responsible  for  the  refinement  of 
financial  controls  for  the  rapidly  growing 
non-banking  subsidiaries  of  Worcester  Ban- 
corp. Previously  Sawin  was  controller  and 
personnel  manager  at  Hobbs  Manufacturing 
Co.,  Worcester,  and  also  had  been  associ- 
ated with  the  Presmet  Corp.  and  U.S.  Steel 
Corp.,  both  in  Worcester. 


1960 


RAYMOND  P.  ABRAHAM  is  presently 
owner  of  Al  Abraham's  TV  &  Appliance 
Retail  Store  in  Norwich,  Conn.  He  is  past 
president  of  the  Norwich  Downtown  Lions 
Club  and  writes  that  he  is  still  active  in 
sports,  basketball,  golf,  and  baseball.  He 
and  his  wife,  Patricia,  have  two  daughters, 
Leslie,  11,  and  Lynn,  8.  .  .  .  PAUL  A.  AL- 
LAIRE has  been  named  director,  international 
operations  financial  planning  and  control 
for  Xerox  Corp.,  Stamford,  Conn.  Since 
1970  he  has  been  director,  financial  plan- 
ning and  analysis,  with  Rank  Xerox,  Ltd.,  a 
company  subsidiary  in  London.  Earlier  he 
was  assistant  controller,  marketing,  of  the 
former  Business  Products  Group  of  Xerox, 

Rochester,  N.Y PAUL  W.  BAYLISS  was 

recently  appointed  director  of  research  ad- 
ministration at  Western  Electric  Company's 
engineering  research  center  near  Princeton, 
N.J.  He  joined  the  Bell  System  in  1960  and 
was  previously  assistant  manager  of  the 
company's  Omaha  (Neb.)  works.  .  .  .  Last 
summer  LAWRENCE  J.  COHEN  was 
awarded  a  Juris  Doctorate  degree  as  a 
member  of  the  first  graduating  class  of 
Western  State  University  College  of  Law  in 
San  Diego,  Calif.  He  earned  his  degree 
while  attending  night  school.  Currently  he 
is  an  attorney  in  San  Diego  where  he  is 
known  in  the  profession  as  a  sole  practi- 
tioner. Larry  writes,  "I  keep  my  eyes  open 
for  a  night-time  medical  school  and  if  one 
opens  up,  I'll  make  that  my  next  profession." 
.  .  .  The  graduation  committee  of  the  class  of 
1973,  Stoneham  (Mass.)  High  School, 
voted  unanimously  to  have  FRANK  MATA- 
RESE  present  the  diplomas  at  graduation  in 
June.  This  method  was  used  to  recognize 
the  service  he  has  rendered  to  the  class  and 
community  as  an  outstanding  educator. 
Matarese  is  assistant  superintendent  of 
schools.  Previously  he  served  as  principal  of 


Stoneham  Junior  High  School.  .  .  .  DR. 
CHARLES  A.  STEVENS  was  chosen  by 
graduating  seniors  as  one  of  the  spring 
semester's  outstanding  teachers  at  the  Col- 
lege of  Engineering,  University  of  Missouri- 
Columbia.  He  is  an  assistant  professor  of 
mechanical  and  aerospace  engineering. 


1961 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  FREDERICK  DUVAL, 
a  daughter,  Nicole  Michele,  on  July  13, 
1973.  Rick  is  linebacker  coach  and  director 
of  recruiting  at  the  University  of  Nebraska. 

ROBERT  R.  BEAUDRY  is  now  a  highway 
design  engineer  for  the  Federal  Highway 
Administration  in  Delmar,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOHN 
E.  DONNELLY,  who  received  his  MS  in 
industrial  administration  from  Union  College 
last  year,  now  serves  as  unit  manager,  pad- 
mount  transformer,  General  Electric  Co., 
Hickory,  N.C.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  A.  MARUBBIO 
was  recently  elected  an  assistant  vice  presi- 
dent of  Con  Edison,  New  York  City.  He  is 
responsible  for  purchasing  and  building 
services.  Earlier  he  was  general  manager  of 
construction  planning  and  analysis  and 
project  manager  for  nuclear  projects  in  the 
utility's  construction  group.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1962.  .  .  .  JOHN  W.  POWERS 
has  become  associated  with  the  Portsmouth 
(N.H.)  office  of  Wright,  Pierce,  Barnes,  and 
Wyman  as  chief  sanitary  engineer.  Formerly 
he  was  a  project  engineer  for  Tighe  and 
Bond,  Holyoke,  Mass.;  a  district  sanitary 
engineer  for  the  northeast  division  of  Naval 
Facilities  Engineering  Command,  Boston; 
and  assistant  sanitary  engineer  for  the  New 
York  State  Department  of  Health.  .  .  .  JOHN 
A.  QUAGLIAROLI  is  in  market  development 
at  First  National  City  Bank,  Transaction  Inc., 
Cambridge,  Mass. .  .  .  RICHARD  E.  TAYLOR 
serves  as  district  manager  at  Telemation 
East,  Inc.,  Needham  Heights,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JAMES  M.  TOLOS  is  with  Allendale  Mutual 
Life  Insurance  Company,  Providence,  R.I. . . . 
DR.  WILLIAM  A.  WOLOVICH  was  recently 
promoted  to  the  tenured  position  of  asso- 
ciate professor  of  engineering  at  Brown 
University,  Providence,  R.I. 


1962 


1965 


1968 


WILLIAM  R.  FADO  is  general  manager- 
western  region,  at  Itel  Corporation,  Los 
Angeles,  Calif. 


1963 


JOHN  A.  McGRATH,  JR.,  is  a  materials 
engineer  for  Blue  Rock  Industries,  West- 
brook,  Maine. 


1964 


Married:  JOHN  R.  LONERGAN  to  Miss 
Debra  A.  Doyle  in  July  in  Paxton,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Lonergan  graduated  from 
Worcester  State  College.  Her  husband  is 
with  the  Massachusetts  District  Commission. 
PETER  L  DORNEMANN  is  with  National 
Lead  Co.,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  L. 
LaCAVA  recently  received  his  PhD  from  the 
University  of  Pennsylvania.  His  major  field 
of  study  was  systems  engineering.  He  is 
with  Bell  Laboratories  in  New  Jersey  and 
was  a  participant  in  their  doctoral  support 
program.  He  writes  that  he  and  DAVID 
LUBER,  '65,  who  also  earned  his  PhD  from 
the  University,  are  enjoying  the  challenge  of 
some  interesting  problems  at  Bell.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  E.  LIZOTTE,  SIM,  won  by  a 
three-to-one  majority  the  vacant  city 
council  seat  in  Ward  5  at  a  special  election 
held  in  Marlboro  (Mass.)  last  July.  He  is  a 
general  foreman  for  Bay  State  Abrasives  in 
Westboro.  .  .  .  ALAN  SINCLAIR  has  been 
awarded  a  doctorate  of  education  degree 
from  Boston  University,  School  of  Educa- 
tion. .  .  .  MASON  A.  SOMERVILLE,  who 
received  his  PhD  from  Pennsylvania  State 
University  last  year,  is  now  a  senior  engineer 
with  Westinghouse  at  the  National  Reactor 
Test  Site  in  Idaho.  .  .  .  ANTHONY  M. 
TRIPPI  is  a  partner  in  Trippi's,  Inc.,  a  men's 
store  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  DAVID  La  RUE,  a 
daughter,  Megan  Therese,  on  June  9,  1973. 
Megan  has  a  brother,  Michael,  4,  and  a 
sister,  Amy,  6.  Dave  is  now  general  manager 
at  Comfort  Air  Systems  and  is' located  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
HENRY  J.  SKONIECZNY,  a  son,  Jonathan 
Peter,  on  May  2,  1973. 

ROBERT  H.  JACOBY  works  as  a  sales 
engineer  at  Superior  Plating  Co.,  Fairfield, 
Conn. 


1966 


Married:  MICHAEL  C.  NAPOLITANO  to 
Miss  Caroline  F.  Wheeler  in  Holliston, 
Massachusetts  on  July  14,  1973.  Mrs. 
Napolitano  is  an  elementary  school  teacher 
in  Holliston.  Her  husband  is  with  Idealab, 
Franklin,  Mass. 

GARY  DYCKMAN  has  received  his 
master's  degree  in  civil  engineering  from 
Northeastern  University,  Boston.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  S.  LEVINE  now  serves  as  manager- 
quality  control  for  General  Electric  Co., 
Cincinnati,  Ohio.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  PASTIC  will 
be  working  on  the  island  of  Guam  transpor- 
tation program  for  the  next  two  years.  .  .  . 
JAN  W.  MOREN  is  currently  studying  at 
Long  Beach  State  College. 


1967 


Married:  CURTIS  R.  CARLSON  and  Miss 
Dudley  H.  Brown  in  Rocky  Hill,  New  Jersey 
on  June  1 6,  1 973.  Mrs.  Carlson  is  a  librarian 
at  the  Princeton  (N.J.)  Public  Library.  The 
groom  is  with  David  Sarnoff  Laboratories, 
Princeton.  He  received  his  PhD  from  Rutgers 

last  May EDWARD  B.  OLSON  and  Miss 

Joan  M.  Alves  on  June  16,  1973  in  Stam- 
ford, Connecticut.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of 
Berkeley  Secretarial  School,  is  an  adminis- 
trative secretary  at  Stamford  Hospital.  Her 
husband  is  president  of  Connecticut  Data 
Science,  Inc.,  Stamford. 

ROBERT  L.  DHEIN,  who  received  his 
master's  in  electrical  engineering  from  Johns 
Hopkins  last  year,  is  an  executive  engineer 
at  Motorola,  Fort  Lauderdale,  Fla.  .  .  .  ROY 
C.  FEDOTOFF  has  received  a  post-master's 
degree  in  engineering  from  Polytechnic 
Institute  of  Brooklyn  (N.Y.) 


Married:  FRANCIS  P.  BARTON  and  Miss 
Maureen  Ann  Gnatek  on  June  30  in  Cumber- 
land, Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Barton  teaches  in 
Quincy.  The  groom  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  LAWRENCE 
(JACK)  ROGER,  a  daughter,  Michelle,  on 
June  2, 1973.  Having  completed  three  years 
as  a  Navy  officer,  Jack  is  now  a  doctoral 
candidate  in  the  Department  of  Physiology 
and  Pharmacology  at  Duke  University, 
Durham,  N.C. 

Currently  ROBERT  L.  BRADLEY  is  a 
project  engineer  with  Chrysler  Corporation, 
Detroit,  Michigan.  .  .  .  NORMAN  E.  BRU- 
NELL  has  been  awarded  a  juris  doctor  degree 
from  Suffolk  University.  .  .  .  Presently 
GERARD  E.  CARON  is  a  computer  pro- 
grammer at  John  Hancock  Mutual  Life  In- 
surance Co.,  Boston. .  . .  STEPHEN  P.  DAVIS 
was  co-author  of  the  article,  "Radio 
Telemetry  for  Strain  Measurements  in  Tur- 
bines" which  appeared  in  the  April  issue  of 
Sound  and  Vibration.  He  is  active  in  the 
Instrumentation  and  Acoustics  Section  of 
the  Steam  Turbine  Division  at  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.,  Lester,  Pa.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  A. 
DiPIERRO  writes  that  the  first  location  of 
Auto-Tech,  Inc.,  with  which  he  is  associated, 
opened  on  July  1,  with  the  second  to  follow 
in  the   Leominster-Fitchburg    (Mass.)    area 

this  fall RONALD  F.  GOLASZEWSKI  is 

a  rate  analyst  for  Providence  Washington 
Insurance  Company,  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  E.  MAKOHON  has  received  his 
master's  in  administrative  science  from  the 
University  of  Alabama.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F. 
O'HARA  is  with  ITT  Grinnell/Pipe  Hanger 
Division,  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  SCOTT  W. 
RAMSAY,  who  received  his  MBA  from  the 
University  of  New  Hampshire  this  year,  is 
a  controller  trainee  at  Mobil  Oil  Corporation, 
Scarsdale,  N.Y.  .  .  .  LYNWOOD  C.  RICE 
serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at  Uniroyal 
Chemical,  Geismar,  La.  .  .  .  STANLEY  F. 
URBANOWSKI,  JR.,  is  an  electrical  engi- 
neer for  New  England  Electric  System, 
Westboro,  Mass. 


1969 


Married:  DAVID  H.  JOHNSON  to  Miss 
Janifer  A.  Hunger  in  Painesville,  Ohio,  on 
June  9,  1973.  Mrs.  Johnson  is  a  medical 
editor  at  Mass.  General  Hospital.  The  bride- 


25 


26 


groom  is  with  the  New  England  Telephone 
Co.  .  .  .  JOHN  C.  PAYNE  and  Miss  Nancy 
Adrian  on  July  14  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is 
a  reading  specialist  at  Chaffee  School  in 
Oxford,  Mass.  Her  husband  is  enrolled  in  the 
doctor  of  science  program  at  Columbia 
University,  New  York  City. 

BRIAN  T.  ABRAHAM  is  a  quality  as- 
surance engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co., 
North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J. 
BOYAN  works  for  Circle  Industries,  Bronx, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  THOMAS  L.  CONNELLY  has  re- 
ceived a  post-master's  degree  in  engineering 
from  the  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn 
(N.Y.)  .  .  .  RICHARD  C.  FURMAN  is  a  staff 
scientist  and  air  pollution  engineer  at  Walden 
Research  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  M.  GWAZDAUSKAS  has  received 
his  MBA  from  Rutgers.  .  .  .  MARTIN  SUR- 
ABIAN  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
mechanical  engineer  with  the  Bechtel  Power 
Corporation,  the  largest  engineer-architect- 
constructor  of  nuclear  and  fossil  fuel  power 
plants  in  the  country.  He  is  also  working  on 
his  MS  in  nuclear  engineering  at  Catholic 
University  (evenings)  in  Washington,  D.C. 


June  10,  1973  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Cattel, 
who  attended  Quinsigamond  Community 
College,  is  an  office  manager  at  Model 
Cities.  Her  husband  is  a  field  system  engineer 
at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 

DONALD  F.  BOLDUC  serves  as  regional 
sales  representative  for  Harold  F.  Bolduc 
Assoc,  Thompson,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  P. 
KAZINSKAS  has  been  appointed  a  grade 
two  engineer  in  the  Survey  Department  in 
Gardner,  Mass.  .  .  .  DINKAR  V.  DESAI  was 
recently  awarded  a  post-master's  degree  in 
engineering  from  Polytechnic  Institute  of 
Brooklyn  (N.Y.)  .  . .  JOHN  J.  GALE  has  been 
employed  by  the  Holden  (Mass.)  House  and 
Country  Club.  .  .  .  JAMES  H.  GEORGE  is  in 

the  U.S.  Navy PAUL  R.  LaPLANTE  was 

recently  promoted  to  the  rank  of  first  lieu- 
tenant in  the  Army.  He  is  with  the  Army 
Electronics  Command's  Electronics  Tech- 
nology and  Devices  Laboratory,  Fort  Mon- 
mouth, N.J IAMES  M.  LOCKWOOD  is  a 

sales  representative  for  the  Industrial  Chemi- 
cals Division  of  Allied  Chemical  Corp.,  San 

Francisco,  Calif JETHALAL  N.  MAKATI 

works  for  J  &  J  Corrugated  Box  Corp.,  Fall 


1971 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,   Mess.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1970 


Married:  DAVID  B.  BEST  to  Miss  Geraldme 
A.  Ashton  on  May  20,  1973  in  Andover, 
Massachusetts  The  bride  has  been  attend- 
ing Northern  Essex  Community  College, 
Haverhill.  The  groom  is  with  Western 
Ek-ctric  Co  ,  North  Andover.  .  .  .  JOHN  D. 
CATTEL  II  and  Miss  Barbara  Ann  Baris  on 


River,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  G.  MERRITT  has 
been  awarded  an  M  B A  from  Babson  College, 
Wellesley,  Mass.  .  .  .  RAYMOND  T.  PAJER  is 
employed  by  the  section  of  physical  sciences, 
Yale  University,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Presently  LOUIS  W.  ZITNAY  is  working  for 
his  MS  in  environmental  health  engineering 
at  Northwestern  University,  Evanston,  III. 


Married:  FRANCIS  J.  CALCAGNO  and  Miss 
Susan  H.  Robertson  in  Spencer,  Massachu- 
setts on  June  30,  1973.  Mrs.  Calcagno  is  a 
graduate  of  Salter  Secretarial  School, 
Worcester.  The  groom,  who  has  received 
his  master's  degree  from  Washington  Uni- 
versity, St.  Louis,  Missouri,  plans  to  enter  a 
career  in  investment  banking.  .  .  .  BARRY 
CHESEBRO  to  Miss  Patricia  Charles  on 
June  23  in  Bound  Brook,  New  Jersey.  The 
bride  is  a  learning  disabilities  specialist  in 
Central  Falls,  R.I.  The  groom  is  a  stock- 
broker. .  .  .  LEO  R.  GILLIS  and  Miss  Patricia 
Anne  Shaughnessy  on  June  23  in  New 
London,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Gillis  is  a 
Becker  graduate.  Her  husband  is  with  the 
New  England  Power  Service  Co.,  Westboro, 
Mass.  .  .  .  WAYNE  D.  HOLMES  and  Miss 
Caroline  Amee  on  May  19,  1973  in  Water- 
town,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a  gradu- 
ate of  Becker  and  an  executive  secretary  at 
New  England  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co., 
Boston.  The  bridegroom  is  a  loss  prevention 
engineer  at  Factory  Insurance  Association, 
Boston. 

Married:  JOHN  C.  JOHNSON  and  Miss 
Karen  Rothfuss  on  May  1 9,  1 973  in  Tribune, 
Kansas.  The  groom  is  a  second  lieutenant  in 
the  U.S.  Army  Medical  Services  Corps  and 
is  stationed  at  Fort  Rucker,  Alabama.  .  .  . 
MARK  A.  KORETZ  to  Miss  Ellen  S.  Rosen- 
berg on  June  3  in  Brockton,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  Koretz  is  in  the  individualized  teaching 
program  of  the  Amherst  (Mass.)  Public 
School  System.  The  groom  is  employed  by 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Westfield.  .  .  . 
DENNIS  J.  STABA  and  Miss  Carol  J. 
Kenyon  on  May  5  in  Middletown,  Connect- 
icut. A  graduate  of  Becker  Junior  College, 
Mrs.  Staba  is  an  insurance  rater.  Her  husband 
is  with  Close,  Jenson  and  Miller,  Wethers- 
field,  Conn. 

MARTIN    K.  ANDERSON   is  with  Wang 

Labs,  Inc.,  Springfield,  N.J THOMAS  R. 

COPP  is  presently  employed  at  Simonds 
Saw  &  Steel  Corp.,  a  division  of  Wallace- 
Murray  Corporation  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.  He 
works  as  a  research  and  development 
engineer.  .  .  .  Currently  VINCENT  PACE  is 
an  electrical  construction  engineer  at 
Philadelphia  Electric  Co.,  Philadelphia.  .  .  . 
DONALD  K.  PETERSON  has  been-awarded 
an  MBA  from  the  Amos  Tuck  School  at 
Dartmouth  College,  Hanover,  N.H.  .  .  .  JOHN 
PETRILLO  is  with  AT  &  T  Long  Lines,  New 
York  City GREGORY  F.  SANKEY  serves 


CHECK  OUR  SPECS 

BEFORE  YOU  BUY  THEIR 

4  CHANNEL  RECEIVER. 


Sylvania 


Pioneer 


Sansui 


Fisher 


Harman- 
Kardon 


Marantz 


Model 

Continuous  (RMS) 
Power1 

4  channels 
Stereo  Bridge 

THD  at  rated  output 

IM  Distortion  at 
rated  output 

FM  IHF  Sensitivity 

50  db  signal  to 
noise  ratio 

Capture  Ratio 
Price 


RQ3748 

50Wx4 
125Wx2 

<0.5% 

<0.5% 

1.9m  v 

2.8mv 

1.5db- 

$549.952 

'All  powermeasurements  taken  at  120  volts/60  cycles,  8  ohms,  20Hz-20kHz,  all  channels  driven  simultaneously. 
'Manufacturer's  suggested  list  price  which  may  be  higher  in  some  areas. 


If  you're  in  the  market  for  four  channel,  you 
already  know  you've  got  to  spend  a  good  bit  of 
cash  for  a  receiver.  So  it'd  be  a  good  idea  to 
spend  a  good  bit  of  time  checking  specs  on 
everything  available  just  to  make  sure  you  get 
the  most  for  your  money. 

To  make  your  search  a  little  easier,  we've 
prepared  the  blank  comparison  chart  above 
with  spaces  for  some  of  the  best-known  brands 
and  most  important  specs.  Just  take  it  with  you 
to  the  store,  fill  it  in,  and  you'll  be  able  to  tell 
at  a  glance  what  you  get  for  what  you  pay. 

We  took  the  liberty  of  filling  in  the  Sylvania 
column  with  sprees  forour  RQ3748fourchannel 
receiver.  We  did  it  because  we  know  we're  not 
the  best-known  name  in  four  channel,  and  we 
didn't  want  you  to  overlook  us  for  that  reason. 

Because  we  think  the  RQ3748's  specs 
are  really  worth  remembering. 

50  watts  of  RMS  power  per  channel  at  8 
ohms,  20-20kHz,  with  all  four  channels 
driven. 125wattsperchannel  in  stereo  bridge 
mode.  A  THD  and  IM  of  less  than  0.5%  at 
rated  output.  An  FM  sensitivity  of  1.9  micro 
volts.  A  discrete  four  channel  receiver  with 


matrix  capabilities  so  you  can  use  either  type  of 
quadraphonic  material.  And  much,  much  more3 

We  can  offer  so  much  because  we  have  so 
much  experience.  We  were  one  of  the  first  in  the 
audio  field.  And  now  we're  applying  all  our  knowl- 
edge, all  our  engineering  skill  to  four  channel. 

Once  you've  proven  to  yourself  which  receiver 
has  the  best  specs,  move  on  down  to  that  last 
line  in  the  chart  and  compare  Sylvania's  price 
with  all  the  others.  Find  out  which  one  gives  the 
most  for  your  money. 

We  feel  pretty  confident  you'll  discover  that 
the  best-known  names  aren't  necessarily  your 
best  buy. 

3So  much  more  that  it  won't  all  fit  here.  So  send  us  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  and  we'll  send  you  a  four-page  brochure  on  our 
four  channel  receivers. 


f^iT^  SVLV/ANIA 


Sylvania  Entertainment 
Products  Group,  Batavia,  N.Y. 


WESTERN  ELECTRIC  REPORTS 


1500  C  furnace  was  specially  designed  to  fire 
these  neu  substrates.  The  relatively  low  tem- 
perature results  in  smooth  substrate  surfaces 
for  practically  fault-free  thin  film  bonding. 


Electron  micrographs  show 
the  great  difference  in  grain 
size  between  new  ceramic 
material  (lower)  and  the 
previous  material  (upper). 


Thin  film  integrated  circuit  shown  here  is  part 
of  a  resistor  network.  It  is  one  of  many  that 
benefit  from  the  improved  substrate.  Metal 
leads  on  sides  are  bonded  by  thermocompres- 
sion  to  tantalum  nitride  resistor  film. 


Smoothing  the  way  for  perfect  thin  film  bonding. 


Aluminum  oxide,  or  alumina,  is  con- 
sidered to  have  the  best  combination  of 
properties  for  thin  film  circuit  substrates. 
Until  recently,  however,  the  bonding  of 
metal  elements  to  gold-coated  tantalum 
nitride  resistor  film  on  alumina  was  some- 
what unpredictable. 

Now,  an  advance  at  Western  Electric 
has  made  it  possible  to  get  practically 
fault-free  bonding  of  these  materials. 

This  new  perfection  in  bonding 
came  through  the  development  of  finer 
grained  alumina  substrates. 

The  process  has  four  basic  steps: 
milling,  casting,  punching  and  firing. 

During  milling,  alumina  is  combined 
with  magnesium  oxide,  trichlorethylene, 
ethanol  and  a  unique  deflocculant.  For 
24  hours,  this  mixture  is  rotated  in  a  ball 
mill.  In  a  second  24-hour  period,  plasti- 
cizers  and  a  binder  are  included. 

I  he  deflocculant  plays  a  major  role 
by  dissipating  the  attraction  forces  that 
exist  between  the  highly  active  alumina 
particles.  This  prevents  thickening,  which 
would  ordinarily  make  an  active  alumina 
mixture  unworkable. 

The  4X  hours  of  milling  is  followed 
by  casting.  When  the  material  comes  off 
the  casting  line,  it  is  in  the  form  of  a  flexi- 
ble polymer/alumina  tape,  dry  enough 
to  be  cut  into  easily   handled  sections. 

After  casting,  a  punch  press  cuts  the 
material   into  the  desired  rectangles  or 


other  shapes.  Holes  can  be  punched  at 
the  same  time . 

Finally,  because  of  the  use  of  active 
alumina,  the  material  is  fired  at  an  unusu- 
ally low  temperature  which  results  in 
smooth  substrate  surfaces  for  reliable 
thin  film  bonding.  The  finished  substrate 
is  then  ready  for  the  various  processes  of 
thin  film  circuit  production. 

In  developing  this  new  process,  en- 
gineers at  Western  Electric's  Engineering 
Research  Center  worked  together  with 
engineers  at  the  Allentown  plant. 

Conclusion:  This  new  way  to  pro- 
duce substrates  is  a  truly  significant  con- 
tribution for  thin  film  circuit  production. 

The  ultimate  gain  from  this  smoother 
substrate  is  for  communications  itself. 
For  through  the  achievement  of  nearly 
perfect  bonding  of  metal  leads  to  tanta- 
lum nitride,  thin  films  can  be  produced 
with  even  greater  reliability  and  economy. 


Western  Electric 


We  make  things  that  bring  people  closer. 


>  an  environmental  engineer  at  Stone  & 
/ebster,  Boston.  .  .  .  JAMES  E.  TROUT- 
IAN,  JR.  has  been  commissioned  a  second 
jutenant  in  the  U.S.  Air  Force.  He  gradu- 
ed  from  the  School  of  Military  Sciences 
>r  Officers  at  Lackland  AFB,  Texas.  Lt. 
•outman,  who  was  selected  through  com- 
jtitive  examination  for  attendance  at  the 
:hool,  is  being  assigned  to  L.  G.  Hanscom 
eld,  Mass.  for  duty  as  a  staff  engineer  in 
e  Electronics  Systems  Division.  .  .  .  DAVID 
I.  WINER  is  a  design  engineer  with  Iri- 
rumentation  Laboratory,  Inc.,  Lexington, 
ass. 


972 


arried:  MICHAEL  P.  DiBENEDETTO  to 
iss  Elizabeth  A.  Weber  on  June  9,  1973  in 
orcester.  The  bride  is  majoring  in  music 
lucation  at  Lowell  State  College.  Her 
isband  is  with  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
ering  Corp.,  Boston.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  B. 
<^RRINGTON  to  Miss  Carole  A.  Mahoney 
i  June  30  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  a 
irse.  The  groom  is  with  General  Electric 

).,  Lynn,  Mass KENNETH  W.  KOLKE- 

ECK  and  Miss  Shirley  H.  Kopchik  on  June 

1973  in  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Kolkebeck, 
ho  graduated  from  Becker  and  attended 
e  University  of  Connecticut,  is  an  assistant 
jyer  for  Howland's,  White  Plains,  N.Y. 
ie  bridegroom  is  with  Johnson  Service 
x.  Long  Island  City,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PHILIP 
QUEIRA  to  Miss  SusaVi  Klanica  on  July  7 

Cheshire,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Piqueira,  a 
aduate  of  Anna  Maria  College,  teaches 
gh  school  English  in  Southington.  Her 
jsband  works  for  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East 
artford,  Conn.  .  .  .  THOMAS  J.  TRACY 
id  Miss  Maureen  O'Mara  on  June  9,  1973 

Uxbridge,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Tracy  is 
esently  librarian  at  Uxbridge  Public  Li- 
ary.  The  groom  is  with  Stone  &  Webster 
lgineering,  Boston.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  R. 
AYNE  and  Miss  Winifred  P.  Curtis  in 
est  Campton,  New  Hampshire  on  June  9. 
ie  bride  graduated  from  the  College  of 
illiam  and  Mary  in  Virginia.  Her  husband 
a  student  at  the  University  of  Vermont  in 
Jrlington.  .  .  .  RICHARD  C.  WOLKE  and 
iss  Linda  Mae  Vautour  on  June  3,  1973 

Clinton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Wolke  is  a 
gistered  nurse.  Her  husband  is  employed 
'  the  Factory  Insurance  Association, 
aleigh,  N.C. 


Tr outman  '71 


DUNCAN  A.  CREASER,  JR.  recently 
graduated  as  an  honorman  from  recruit 
training  at  the  Naval  Training  Center,  Great 
Lakes,  III.  .  .  .  SAMUEL  T.  CUSCOVITCH 
works  at  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty,  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  LINDA  M.  DUPONT,  who  re- 
ceived her  MSCS  from  WPI  this  year,  serves 
as  a  scientific  programmer/analyst  at 
Morgan  Construction  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
MARK  FRITZ  is  an  educational  consultant 
at  North  Country  Learning  Center,  Jefferson, 
N.H.  .  .  .  NEIL  C.  HERRING  is  a  self-em- 
ployed freelance  consultant  and  urban  and 
regional  planner  in  Fairlee,  Vt.  .  .  .  TIMOTHY 
F.  LASKOWSKI  received  his  MSEE  from 
WPI  in  June  and  is  currently  an  application 
engineer  with  Power  Technologies,  Inc.,  a 
consulting  firm  based  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
. . .  ROBERT  L.  LYONS  serves  as  field  service 
engineer  for  Digital   Equipment  Co.,  May- 

nard,  Mass EDWARD  G.  PERKINS  is  a 

systems  programmer  for  WACCC  at  WPI. 


1973 


Married:  STEPHAN  D.  BATCH  ELDER  and 
Miss  Signe  Warpness  on  May  28,  1973  in 
Riverton,  Wyoming.  Mrs.  Batchelder  at- 
tended Central  Wyoming  College  and  the 
University  of  Idaho.  The  groom  is  a  pre- 
medical  student  at  the  University  of  Idaho. 
.  .  .  RICHARD  BIRKENSHAW  to  Miss 
Cynthia  DeMarco  on  June  23,  1973  in  West 
Roxbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  Boston  State  College.  The  groom 
is  studying  environmental  engineering  at 
MIT JOHN  E.  DEWAR  and  Miss  Chris- 
tine C.  Wyman  on  June  23  in  Lisbon  Falls, 
Maine.  Mrs.  Dewar  graduated  from  Becker 
and  attended  the  University  of  Maine.  Her 
husband  is  with  the  Federal  Highway  Com- 
mission in  Augusta,  Me.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  J. 
FAZIO  to  Miss  Louise  H.  Jackman  on  July 
7,  1973  in  Bristol,  Connecticut.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Becker  Junior  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  chemist  with  Dow  Chemical 
Co.,  Midland,  Mich.  .  .  .  EDWARD  S. 
JAMRO  to  Miss  Joyce  Rock  on  July  14, 
1 973  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Jamro  is  a  graduate 
nurse.  Her  husband  is  a  graduate  student  of 
environmental  engineering  at  the  University 
of  Massachusetts  in  Amherst. 

Married:  STEPHEN  JOHNSON  and  Miss 
Joanne  Amato  on  June  1 6, 1  973  in  Wethers- 
field,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Johnson,  a  Becker 
graduate,     is     employed     at     Manchester 


Federal  Savings  &  Loan.  The  groom  is  with 
Public  Service  of  New  Hampshire.  .  .  .  Miss 
DEBORAH  F.  LaPLANTE  and  STEPHEN  H. 
GOODWIN  on  June  9,  1973  in  Webster, 
Massachusetts.  The  bridegroom  is  employed 
by  Niagara-Mohawk  Power  Co.  in  Albany, 
New  York.  .  .  .  ROBERT  S.  LEACH  to  Miss 
Susan  Chause  on  June  9,  1973  in  Connect- 
icut. Mrs.  Leach  graduated  from  Becker. 
Her  husband  is  employed  in  process  tech- 
nology by  the  Monsanto  Corp.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
A.  MANES  to  Miss  Nancy  E.  Walsh  on  July 
21  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
is  a  graduate  of  Becker  Junior  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  studying  for  his  MA  in  English 
at  Purdue  University  in  Indiana.  .  .  .  DANIEL 
H.  MURKLAND  to  Miss  Carolyn  D.  Barnard 
in  Worcester  on  May  12,  1973.  Mrs.  Murk- 
land  attended  WPI  and  is  an  accounting 
supervisor  at  Mechanics  National  Bank. 
Her  husband  is  employed  at  Kelley  Chandler, 
Inc.,  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  RICHARD  R.  NABB 
and  Miss  Wendy  A.  Jerome  on  June  16, 
1973  in  Warwick,  Rhode  Island.  The  groom 
works  for  Clairol,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn. 

Married:  2/Lt.  WILLIAM  A.  RUTHER- 
FORD and  Miss  Vicki  L.  Swartz  in  Fort 
Plain,  N.Y.  on  June  4,  1973.  Mrs.  Ruther- 
ford is  a  medical  secretary.  Her  husband  is 
at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Md.,  and  will  be  stationed  at 
Ft.  Hood,  Texas,  following  his  army  training. 
.  .  .  RICHARD  L.  SARGENT  to  Miss  Dianne 
M.  Lamberto  on  June  17  in  West  Boylston, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  attended  Worces- 
ter Art  Museum  School  and  WPI.  The  bride- 
groom is  a  process  engineer  for  Sylvania  in 
Danvers,  Mass.  .  .  .  THOMAS  M.  SAVAGE 
to  Miss  Marguerite  B.  Falcone  on  June  23 
in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Savage  was  formerly  an 
X-ray  technician  at  Fallon  Clinic.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  chemical  engineer  for  Uniroyal, 
Inc.  in  Connecticut.  .  .  .  DINESH  S.  SHAH 
and  Miss  Donna  M.  Manganello  on  May  5, 
1973  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  The 
bride  is  studying  at  Worcester  State  College. 
The  bridegroom  is  a  design  engineer  at 
Warner  &  Swasey,  Worcester.  .  .  .  JOHN  J. 
STRAZIE  to  Miss  Susan  Karpawich  on  June 
10  in  Worcester.  The  bride,  who  is  an  ele- 
mentary school  teacher,  graduated  from 
Anna  Maria  College.  The  groom  is  an  assist- 
ant planner  with  Stone  &  Webster  Engineer- 
ing, Boston.  .  .  .  TIMOTHY  K.  SUTHER- 
LAND and  Miss  Diane  C.  Angelastro  in 
June  in  Riverside,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Suther- 
land is  a  teacher.  Her  husband  is  at  Man- 
hattan College. 


29 


We  design  and  build  the 

Bethlehem  has  lots  of  projects  "on 
the  ways" — not  all  are  related  to 
shipbuilding  And  there  are  plenty 
of  opportunities  for  engineers  to 
launch  meaningful  careers. 
We  need  a  good  crew  to  keep  mov- 
ing full  speed  ahead — in  shipbuild- 
ing and  ship  repair  work,  in  ship 


m.  And  we  also  roll  the  steel  plates  they're  made  from. 

engineering  and  design;  in  produc- 
tion supervision,  in  quality  and  pro- 
cess control  assignments  in  our 
steel  plants;  and  in  many  other 
technical  areas  Why  not  explore 
your  chances  of  signing  on  with 
Bethlehem? 

Watch  for  our  recruiter's  visit 
Meantime,  pick  up  a  copy  of  our 


booklet  "Bethlehem  Steel's  Loop 
Course"  at  your  placement  office. 
Or  write  Director — College  Rela- 
tions, Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation, 
Bethlehem,  PA  18016 


STEEL 


an  equal  opportunity 
employer 


Married:  DOUGLAS  H.  TARBLE  to  Miss 
Lynn  Marie  Goudreau  on  June  9,  1973  in 
i/Voonsocket,  Rhode  Island.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  Jo-An's  School  of  Beauty  Culture 
n  Providence.  The  bridegroom  is  with 
Dlairol  Manufacturing  Co.,  Stamford,  Conn. 
.  .  STEPHEN  F.  TURO  to  Miss  Cheryl  L. 
Dote  on  June  23  in  Paxton,  Massachusetts, 
vlrs.  Turo,  a  special  education  teacher, 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College.  Her 
lusband  is  with   Uniroyal   Chemical,   Inc., 

vlaugatuck,  Conn JOHN  A.  WILLIAMS, 

JR.,  and  Miss  Nancy  L.  Carlson  on  June  16 
n  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
iraduated  from  Worcester  State  College, 
he  groom  is  a  flight  officer  in  the  U.S.  Navy 
nd  is  stationed  at  Pensacola,  Fla.  .  .  .  Miss 
ATHRYN  H.  ZAWISLAK  to  THOMAS  P. 
•AGOSTINO  on  June  10,  1973.  The 
•agostinos  are  located  in  Los  Angeles, 
:alif.,  where  the  groom  is  a  national  service 
lanager  at  Scientific  Audio  Electronics. 
WILLIAM  F.ABBOTT  is  a  programmer  for 
Commercial  Union  Gas  in  the  Mass.  Mer- 
handising  Dept.,  Boston.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
KIE  works  for  Harris  Intertype,  a  division 
f  The  Cottrell  Co.,  in  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
OBERT  M.  ANDEL  serves  as  an  assistant 
ngineer  at  United  Illuminating  Co.,  Bridge- 
ort.  Conn.  .  .  .  LOUIS  J.  BARBIERI  is  with 
tone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  CONRAD  J. 
ARANOWSKI  works  as  an  electronics 
ngineer  for  Powercube  Corp.,  Waltham, 
lass. . .  .  ROBERT  E.  BARON  is  a  student  in 
ie    chemical    engineering    department    at 

1IT IBM  Corp.,  East  Fishkill,  N.Y.,  em- 

loys  JOHN  W.  BARRY  as  a  junior  engineer. 

.    .    THOMAS    BECKMAN    is    a    second 

eutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army.  .  .  .  DAVID  C. 

;EDARD  serves  as  a  second  lieutenant  in 

ie  army CARL  BERGMAN  is  an  airman 

S\\h  the  Air  Force  at  Keesler  AFB.  .  .  . 
VILLIAM  A.  BIRKEMEIER  is  a  graduate 
tudent  in  ocean  engineering  at  the  Univer- 
ity  of  Delaware  in  Newark. 

SCOTT  R.  BLACKNEY  is  studying  for  his 
laster's  degree  at  WPI  where  he  has  re- 
eived  a  teaching  assistanceship.  Last 
ummer  he  served  as  activities  director  at 
:amp  Resolute  in  Bolton,  Mass.  .  .  .  JEF- 
REY  E.  BLAISDELL  has  been  employed  in 
ie  Estimating  Department  of  George  B.  H. 
lacomber  Co.,  Brighton,  Mass.  .  .  .  NORA 
;LUM  is  currently  employed  as  an  engineer 
i  the  environmental  division  of  Stone  & 
,  Vebster  Engineering  Corp.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
iONALD  K.  BOHLIN  has  been  hired  as  a 
upervisor  for  American  Telephone  &  Tele- 
raph  Co.,  White  Plains,  N.Y.  .  .  .  CHARLES 


J*amesbury 
manufacturers  of 
Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 
Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 
JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


R.  BOWER  works  as  a  design  engineer  for 
Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  C.  CARTON  is  with  Teradyne,  Inc., 
Boston.  .  .  .  RAYMOND  F.  CHERENZIA 
works  for  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Boston. .  . .  PAUL 
R.  CIACCIO  serves  as  chief  chemist  at 
Economy  Laboratories,  Charlestown,  Mass. 
.  .  .  DAVID  P.  CIRKA  is  assistant  engineer, 
Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  Conn. 

WILLIAM  E.  CORMIER  is  a  graduate 
teaching  assistant  at  WPI  .  .  .  DR.  ALI  CUL- 
FAZ  serves  as  an  instructor  at  Middle  East 
Technical  University,  Ankara,  Turkey  (on 
leave).  .  .  .  VIJAYKUMAR  A.  DAMLE  is 
studying  at  the  University  of  Minnesota 
Business  School  in  Minneapolis.  .  .  .  JAMES 
W.  DAVIS  works  as  a  management  trainee 
with  Chicopee  Manufacturing,  Chicopee 
Falls,  Mass.  .  .  .  THOMAS  W.  DESHEFY  is 
an  assistant  structural  engineer  at  Ebasco 
Services,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  This  fall 
RALPH  E.  DESMOND  will  be  attending 
Syracuse  University  Graduate  School  where 
he  will  be  a  teaching  assistant.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
M.  DiFRANCESCO,  project  engineer,  works 
at  Niagara  Mohawk  Power  Corp.,  Albany, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  ELLIOTT  has  accepted 
a  field  engineering  position  with  General 
Electric's  Installation  and  Service  Engineer- 
ing Dept.  (I&SE)  in  Schenectady.  The  de- 
partment offers  the  technical  assistance  for 
installation,  adjustment,  testing,  start-up  and 
a  full  range  of  management,  planning  and 
engineering    services    on    GE    mechanical, 


nuclear,  electrical  and  electronic  equipment 
as  supplied  to  defense,  industry,  and  electric 
utility  customers.  Elliott  is  with  the  overseas 
section.  .  .  .  JAMES  V.  ELLIS  is  a  graduate 
student  at  the  University  of  Tennessee.  .  .  . 
DEAN  H.  ELLSWORTH,  SIM,  is  systems 
analyst  and  programmer  for  Worcester 
Controls  Corp.,  West  Boylston,  Mass. 

PAUL  K.^ERICSON  serves  as  a  designer 
with  Van  Zelm,  Heywood  and  Shadford, 
West  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Capt.  ROBERT  H. 
EVANS,  U.S.  Army,  Field  Artillery,  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  military  science  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  JON  W.  FRANSON  works  as  an 
underwriter  for  Factory  Insurance  Associa- 
tion, Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  TIMOTHY  A. 
FRENCH  has  been  employed  by  the  Photo 
Products  Department  of  E.I.  duPont  de 
Nemours,  in  Sayreville,  N.J.  .  .  .  BRIAN  S. 
GUPTILL  is  with  Sylvania  Co.,  Needham 
Heights,  Mass.  .  .  .  MERVYN  L.  HAMER  is 
with  the  Peace  Corps,  Kingdom  of  Tonga, 
South  Pacific.  .  .  .  HERBERT  J.  HEDBERG 
has  joined  Texas  Instruments  Motor  Controls 
Division,  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  CHARLES  M. 
HENRICKSON  has  joined  the  Manufactur- 
ing Management  Program  at  General  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  TIMOTHY  M. 
HIGGINS  works  for  Teradyne,  Inc.,  Boston. 

IOHN  J.  HOMKO  has  been  employed  as 

a  technical  writer  at  Data  General  Corp., 
Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  STEVEN  R.  JAFFE  is 
a  junior  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard, 
Electronics  Division,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 


31 


.  .  .  ROGER  T.  JAMES  serves  as  assistant 
manager  of  F.  W.  Woolworth  Co.,  Burling- 
ton, Vt.  .  .  .  BRUCE  KERN  worked  last 
summer  for  the  Inter-Faith  Flood  Recovery 
Committee  in  the  Wilkes-Barre  area.  .  .  . 
JOSHUA  0.  KOLAWOLE  is  a  field  engineer 
with  G.E.'s  Installation  and  Service  Engi- 
neering Dept.  which  is  headquartered  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  attended  a  two-week 
basic  course  and  is  now  receiving  further 
training  at  the  department's  Field  Engineer- 
ing Development  Center  and  in  the  field.  .  .  . 
DONALD  E.  KOSKI  is  with  Metcalf  &  Eddy, 
Inc.,  Boston. 

ROBERT  J.  KOWAL  is  a  junior  engineer 
for  IBM,  East  Fishkill  Facility,  Hopewell 
Junction,  N.Y.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  J.  KULAS 
works  as  a  manufacturing  management  pro- 
gramtraineeat  General  Electric  Co., Schenec- 
tady, N.Y.  .  .  .  JOHN  A.  KULIG  has  been 
hired  by  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co. . . .  THOMAS 
J.  LANDWEHR  is  a  programmer  analyst  at 
Raytheon  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
EDOUARD  E.  LANGLOIS,  JR.  is  associate 
engineer  at  Xerox  Corp.,  Webster,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
MARK  H.  LAWRY  has  joined  the  Rotating 
Engineering  Advancement  Program  at  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.,  Ordinance  Systems  Divi- 
sion, Pittsfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  H.  LECKO 
is  a  graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  .  Currently 
CLAUDE  L.  LEMOI  is  in  the  Manufacturing 
Management  Program  at  General  Electric 
Co.,  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  F.  LEVI  has 
accepted  a  position  with  Carrier-Transicold 
Co.  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  as  a  service  engineer. 
.  .  .  KENNETH  P.  LEVY  is  an  electrical  sales- 
man for  Lutron  Electronics  Co.,  Inc.,  Coopers- 
burg,  Pa.  .  .  .  DAVID  LIGEIKIS  holds  the  post 
of  junior  engineer  at  the  New  York  State 
Dept.  of  Transportation  in  Binghamton.  .  .  . 
TERRENCE  P.  LUDDY  has  been  employed 
as  an  assistant  engineer  at  Northeast  Utili- 
ties, Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  J.  LUIKEY, 
JR.  is  assistant  superintendent  of  the  ma- 
chine shop  at  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  Worcester, 

Mass JOSEPH  LUSZCZ  has  accepted  a 

position  with  Hewlett  Packard,  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  PETER  B.  MARTIN  works  for 
Mobil  Research  &  Development,  Paulsboro, 
N  J  STEPHEN  S.  MARTIN  is  a  doctoral 

candidate  at  the  University  of  Rochester 
(N.Y.) 

WILLIAM  H.  MAWDSLEY  is  an  actuarial 
student  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  of 
America,  Worcester.  .  .  MICHAEL  D.  Mc- 
CORMICK  is  a  marketing  engineer  in  G.E.'s 
Industrial    and    Power    Capacitor    Division, 


Hudson  Falls,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  H.  NEW- 
MAN serves  as  a  programmer  trainee  at  The 
Travelers,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  ALDEN 
PALMER  is  working  toward  his  master's 
degree  in  mathematics  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  in  Storrs.  .  .  .  PHILIPPE  R. 
PELTRE  is  a  graduate  student  in  the  Chemical 
Engineering  Department  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
GWYNNE  PETERSON  has  been  accepted  as 
a  management  trainee  at  AT  &  T  Long  Lines, 

New  Haven,  Conn EINAT  H.  PILZER  is 

a  mechanical  engineering  student  at  MIT. 
.  .  .  ALBERT  P.  POPOLI  works  for  Stone  & 
Webster,  Hydro-electric  Power  Division, 
Boston.  .  .  .  DANIEL  H.  PRIOR  is  a  field 
engineer  with  New  England  Electric  System, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  THOMAS  E.  RADICAN  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Rhode 
Island.  .  . .  LEONARD  E.  T.  REDON  has  been 
employed  by  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  RAND  J.  REFRIGERI  has  joined 
Riley  Stoker,  Worcester.  .  .  .  MARTHA  L. 
RYAN  has  been  working  as  a  clerk-typist  in 
the  Building  and  Grounds  Department 
this  summer  and  is  now  a  WPI  Graduate 
Student.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  P.  SCHNEIDER  has 
accepted  a  job  as  a  research  assistant  with 
the  Worcester  Foundation  for  Biological 
Research,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAY  J. 
SCHNITZER  is  a  graduate  student  at  MIT. 
.  .  .  MORIS  SCHUSTER'S  business  address 
is  Apartado  Aereo  1299,  Barranquilla, 
Colombia,  South  America. 

WAYNE  E.  SCHWEIDENBACK  is  with 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  CHARLES  P. 
SCOPELITIS  is  in  the  construction  support 


section  of  Electric  Boat  Division,  New 
London,  Conn.  .  .  .  WARREN  F.  SMITH 
serves  as  a  project  planner  at  Armstrong 
Cork  Co.,  Lancaster,  Pa.  .  .  .  RICHARD  F. 
SOCHA  works  for  Western  Electric  Co., 
North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  C.  STEPHEN 
SZLATENYI,  JR.  is  attending  Albany  Medical 
School.  .  .  .  THOMAS  S.  SZATKOWSKI  is 
with  Mobil  Research  and  Development 
Corp.,  Paulsboro,  N.J.  .  .  .  PAUL  J.  TASSI- 
NARI  is  a  graduate  student  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  R.THERRIEN  has  been  employed 
as  a  field  service  engineer  with  Hamilton 
Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  .  BEN- 
JAMIN R.  THOMPSON  is  manager  outside 
administrative  services,  WACCC,  Gordon 
Library,  WPI.  .  .  .  ANGELO  P.  TSEFREKAS, 
who  received  his  master's  degree  in  Engi- 
neering Science  and  Management  from  WPI 
in  June,  is  now  on  the  administrative  staff  of 
Framingham  (Mass.)  Union  Hospital  in  the 
area  of  hospital  management.  Formerly  he 
was  employed  at  the  Bendix  Corporation, 
Sturbridge,  as  manager  of  industrial  engi- 
neering. .  .  .  SHEAN-CHENG  TSOU  is 
studying  for  his  doctorate  at  WPI.  .  .  .  DAVID 
C.  WASON  is  studying  for  his  PhD  in  com- 
puter science  at  Yale.  .  .  .  DAVID  WILLIAM- 
SON works  for  Sperry  Systems  Manage- 
ment Division  (Sperry  Rand  Corp.),  Great 
Neck,  N.Y. . . .  ROBERTA.  WITZGALL  works 
for  Metcalf  and  Eddy,  Boston.  .  .  .  NANCY 
E.  WOOD  is  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 
.  .  .  RAYMOND  L.  WOOD  is  a  computer 
programming  trainee  at  The  Prudential 
Insurance  Company,  Newark,  N.J. 


It's  not  too  early  to 
mark  your  calendar 


REUNION 


June  8,  1974 


believe  that  order  is  better  than 
chaos,  creation  better  than 
destruction.  I  prefer  gentleness  to 
violence,  forgiveness  to  vendetta. 
On  the  whole  I  think  that  knowledge 
is  preferable  to  ignorance,  and  I 
am  sure  that  human  sympathy  is 
more  valuable  than  ideology. 

R&i  Sir  Kenneth  Clark 


December,  1973 


«ii:mp 


What  would  you  do  with  this  mess? 


We  get  people  talking. 

(To  23,000000  people  we're  the  telephone  company) 


We  brighten  their  lives  a  bit. 

(Sylvania  lighting  for  home,  industry  and  photography) 


We're  GTE... 

(a  growing  concern  for  your  growing  needs , 


h 


I  f 


fll 


General  Telephone  &  Electronics,  One  Stamford  Forum,  Stamford,  Conn.  06904 


*ii:mp 


Vol.  77,  No.  4 


December,  1973 


O     The  IQP  Center  story,  etc. 

An  old  attic  is  turned  into  a  center  for  student-faculty 
project  work,  but  the  transformation  wasn't  the  usual 
draw-up-specs-and-let-it-out-for-bids  kind  of  construc- 
tion project.  No  sir. 

l*r     Message  from  the  Middle  East 

Chemical  engineering's  food-and-garbage  man  at  WPI,  Al 
Weiss,  is  on  the  move  again,  and  this  time  he  finds  him- 
self in  the  middle  of  a  war  zone. 


Departments 

*-  campus  news 

4  feedback 

ID  Your  class  and  others 

22  Completed  careers 


in  f  \ 

W 

■  J 

Ji- 
ll 

bi 

^^r  \ 

i 

| 

h, 

The  Cover:  A  photographic  representation  of  the  attic  in  Washburn 
less  than  a  year  ago.  For  an  up-to-date  look,  see  the  article  begin- 
ning on  page  6. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
Richard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
Editor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  Presidents:  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman; 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


»•• 


campus 
news 


Look  what  $3  buys 

While  browsing  through  some  old 
pictures  at  the  Princeton  (Mass.) 
Flea  Market  recently,  corporate  rela- 
tions director  Barry  Bornstein  did  a 
doubletake.  Amid  the  moldering 
prints  and  photographs  he  was  look- 
ing at  the  WPI  diploma  of  George 
Crompton  Gordon,  '95,  who  donated 
(through  his  estate)  Gordon  Library 
which  climbs  up  the  east  side  of  the 
hill. 

Bornstein  asked  the  price  of  the 
item  and  was  told  $3.00;  the  seller 
asked  whether  he  was  interested  in 
the  frame.  Waiting  until  he  had 
handed  over  the  money,  Bornstein 
replied:  "Well,  you  see,  I  work  for 
WPI,  and  nine  years  ago  this  man 
died  and  left  us  five  million  dollars  to 
build  a  library.  No,  I'm  not  interested 
in  the  frame." 


The  Gordon  diploma,  cleaned  up 
and  reframed,  is  now  housed  in  the 
Institute  archives.  In  addition  to  its 
association  with  Gordon,  the  diploma 
is  one  of  the  few  documents  in  our 
possession  with  the  signature  of 
Stephen  Salisbury,  first  president  of 
the  college. 


Getting  the  word  around 
campus 

One  of  the  big  problems  around  WPI 
for  a  number  of  years  has  been  the 
lack  of  communications — between 
departments,  between  administration 
and  faculty,  between  students;  it 
hardly  seemed  like  anyone  was  talk- 
ing with  anyone  else.  Two  new 
avenues  for  keeping  people  in  touch 
with  one  another  have  been  started 


University  Relations  staffer  Barry  Bornstein  with  the  Gordon  diploma  he  rescued  from  obscurity 
in  a  local  flea  market  bin  He  is  standing  in  the  main  entrance  area  of  the  Gordon  Library 
before  the  portrait  of  George  C.  Gordon. 


this  year,  and  they  seem  to  be  helping 
enormously. 

One  is  Monday  Memo,  a  weekly 
internal  newsletter  designed  to  trans- 
mit the  little  details  of  life  in  the  WPI 
faculty  and  staff:  who's  doing  what, 
speaking  when,  going  where,  what's 
up.  It  sums  up  meetings  and  reports 
changes  in  curriculum,  personnel, 
policies,  phone  extensions,  etc.  It  is 
replacing  much  of  the  flood  of  short, 
general-distribution  memos  that  used 
to  inundate  everybody,  too.  The  initial 
Monday  Memo  said  that  if  it  wasn't 
doing  the  job  it  would  self-destruct 
in  eight  weeks  or  so.  The  eighth 
week  has  just  passed,  and  it  seems 
healthy  and  useful. 

Another  innovation  is  audiovisual 
director  Ken  Scott's  cable  TV  system. 
It  flashes  a  succession  of  short  an- 
nouncements (ranging  from  notices 
of  World  Series  coverage,  through 
project  opportunities,  to  student  com- 
mittee messages)  through  a  closed- 
circuit  system.  Monitors  are  located 
in  the  student  lounge  in  Daniels,  the 
library,  the  IQP  Center  in  Washburn, 
the  Computer  Center,  and  Olin  Hall 
of  Physics.  The  messages  run  from 
10:30  a.m.  to  4:30  p.m.  The  system 
also  carries  selected  special  program- 
ming— videotapes  made  in  the  TV 
studio  in  Higgins,  and  network  pro- 
grams such  as  Monday  Night  Foot- 
ball, presidential  speeches,  and  the 
recent  flood  of  news  conferences  by 
government  officials  (and  ex-offi- 
cials). 

Yes  sir — I  mean  ma'am 

The  Army  ROTC  program  on  campus 
just  signed  up  its  first  women  stu- 
dents. The  five  include  three  fresh- 
men, one  sophomore,  and  a  freshman 
from  Assumption  College  who  en- 
rolled   under    the    cross-registration 


The  newly  refurbished  snack  bar  in  Riley  during  the  lunchtime  rush  hour. 


I  provisions  of  the  Worcester  Consor- 
tium for  Higher  Education. 

,  According  to  Col.  James  Kennedy, 
head  of  the  WPI  program,  this  repre- 
sents a  quick  implementation  of  a 
new  national  policy  authorized  this 
summer  by  Army  brass.  Previously, 
women  had  been  admitted  into  ROTC 
programs  at  ten  schools  scattered 
throughout  the  country.  This  had 
been  an  experimental  program,  and 
was  limited  to  colleges  which  had 
some  sort  of  "women's  auxiliary" 
already  existing.  The  experiment 
proved  successful,  and  students  and 
Army  personnel  were  happy  with  the 
female  additions,  hence  the  decision 
to  go  ahead  at  all  292  ROTC  institu- 
tions. 

"Once  we  had  the  first  woman," 
says  Capt.  William  Brethorst,  "getting 
the  others  wasn't  too  hard.  But 
recruiting  at  first  was  a  real  hassle. 
We  had  to  dispel  a  lot  of  stereotypes, 
and  we  had  to  reassure  them  about 
the  three  weekend  programs  we  hold 
at  Fort  Devens  every  year.  They  get 
to  stay  with  female  officers,  not  in 
the  regular  barracks." 

The  women  students  are  eligible 
to  compete  with  all  other  ROTC  stu- 
dents for  Army  scholarships. 

Students  demand  action— 
the  snack  bar  gets  cleaned 
up 

What  with  all  the  remodeling  going 
on  in  Daniels  Hall  this  past  year  and 
the  construction  of  a  connecting  link 
between  Morgan  and  Daniels,  the 
campus  snack  bar  has  been  some- 
thing of  an  orphan.  Last  winter  it 
was  moved  to  the  lower  level  of 
Sanford  Riley,  off  the  always-dark 
lounge  area.  It  wasn't  exactly  a  high- 
traffic  location,  but  everyone  con- 
ceded it  was  only  temporary  until  a 


new,  permanent  home  could  be  found 
in  the  Wedge  (the  section  linking 
Daniels  and  Morgan  Halls,  inevitably 
so-called  because  of  its  shape). 

But  you  know  how  it  is  with  tem- 
porary housing.  The  snack  bar  got 
neglected.  With  a  bunch  of  odd-lot, 
beat-up  furniture  scrounged  from  its 
previous  location  and  who  knows 
where  else,  in  a  dingy  room  where 
the  ceiling  pipes  were  exposed — and 
festooned  in  places  with  cobwebs — it 
just  didn't  seem  to  be  the  kind  of 
place  in  which  you  really  enjoyed 
eating  your  60^  hamburger. 

WPI  Newspeak,  the  weekly  stu- 
dent newspaper  that  used  to  be 
called  Tech  News,  mounted  an  edi- 
torial campaign  to  get  the  place 
cleaned  up.  For  a  few  weeks  nothing 
much  seemed  to  be  happening.  Who 
listens  to  the  Newspeak  after  all? 

But  one  Monday  morning  you 
walked  into  the  snack  bar,  and  Lo 
and  Behold!  The  floor  had  been  re- 
painted (why  always  gray?),  the 
walls  washed,  the  furniture  replaced, 
and  the  prices  unchanged. 

Who  says  students  don't  get  heard? 


Trivia 

It  has  recently  been  called  to  our 
attention  that  there  are  9,547  panes 
of  glass  in  the  Higgins  House. 

Association  seeks  WPI 
trustee  nominations 

Two  years  ago,  at  the  June  1972 
annual  meeting  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  among  the  articles  ap- 
proved in  the  revisions  to  the  Consti- 
tution and  By-laws  of  the  Association 
was  one  which  formed  a  Trustee 
Search  Committee  of  the  Association. 
The  committee  is  composed  of  five 
members  representing  five  decades 
of  alumni  and  they  are  charged  with 
the  responsibility  of  recommending 
annually  to  the  Alumni  Council  the 
name  of  at  least  one  alumnus  for  each 
alumni  vacancy  which  exists  on  the 
WPI  Board  of  Trustees.  The  Alumni 
Council  makes  the  decisions  on  the 
candidates  to  be  nominated  for  the 
positions  on  the  Board  and  forwards 
the  nominations  to  the  Board  for 
election. 

For  approximately  fifty  years,  the 
Board  of  Trustees  of  WPI  has  granted 
to  the  Alumni  Association  the  privi- 


feedback 


lege  of  recommending  to  the  Board 
three  candidates  per  year  for  positions 
on  the  Board.  Thus  there  are  always 
fifteen  Alumni  members  serving  on 
the  Board  as  Alumni  Term  Trustees. 
These  candidates,  when  elected  by 
the  Board,  serve  for  a  term  of  five 
years  and  may  be  re-elected  once. 

In  June  1  974,  John  E.  Hossack  '46, 
Dr.  Edward  R.  Funk  '46  and  Albert  M. 
Demont  '31  will  be  completing  their 
terms  on  the  Board.  Mr.  Hossack  and 
Dr.  Funk  are  eligible  to  be  re-elected. 

There  are  two  distinct  ways  in 
which  alumni  may  participate  in  the 
selection  of  alumni  members  of  the 
Board  of  Trustees.  First  is  the  actual 
proposal  of  the  alumnus  to  the 
Alumni  Council  for  consideration  for 
an  Alumni  Trustee  position.  As  stated 
in  the  By-laws  of  the  Alumni  Asso- 
ciation, the  mechanics  of  proposal 
are  three-fold.  Alumni  chapters  may 
propose  candidates  to  the  Alumni 
Council  by  submitting  a  signed  pro- 
posal, together  with  a  statement  by 
the  candidate  of  his  willingness  to 
serve,  to  the  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee. This  proposal  must  contain  at 
least  fifteen  signatures  of  chapter 
members.  Another  method  is  for  any 
group  of  at  least  25  alumni  to  propose 
a  candidate  by  submitting  a  signed 
proposal,  together  with  a  statement 
by  a  candidate  of  his  willingness  to 
serve  to  the  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee. For  1974  these  proposals 
must  be  received  by  the  Trustee 
Search  Committee  in  care  of  the 
Secretary-Treasurer  of  the  Alumni 
Association  on  or  before  February  1  5, 
1974.  The  third  method  in  which 
candidates  may  be  formally  proposed 
is  by  the  Trustee  Search  Committee 
itself,  which  has  the  responsibility  of 
proposing  to  the  Alumni  Council  at 
least  one  candidate  per  vacancy  each 


year.  Notice  is  hereby  given  that  peti- 
tions for  proposing  alumni  for  posi- 
tions on  the  Board  of  Trustees  are 
now  being  received  and  can  be  re- 
ceived by  the  Alumni  Secretary- 
Treasurer  at  any  time  up  to  and 
including  February  15,  1974.  Sample 
forms  for  the  proposal  of  candidates 
are  available  from  the  Alumni  Secre- 
tary-Treasurer upon  request. 

The  second  way  for  alumni  to 
participate  is  by  suggesting  names  of 
alumni  to  the  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee for  consideration.  This  is  an 
important  input  of  candidates'  names 
to  the  committee  and  in  turn  they  will 
be  researched  and  involved  by  the 
committee  as  it  is  deemed  appropri- 
ate. It  is  the  hope  of  the  committee 
that  a  large  reservoir  of  potential 
candidates  who  should  be  considered 
and  who  would  be  honored  by  this 
consideration  can  be  developed. 
Please  contact  any  member  of  the 
Committee  with  such  names  or  sub- 
mit the  names  to  Stephen  J.  Hebert 
'66,  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer,  c/o 
WPI  Alumni  Office. 

Committee:  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37, 
Worcester,  Ma.,  C.  Eugene  Center  '30, 
Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  William  J.  Hakkinen 
'70,  Ledyard,  Ct.,  William  A.  Julian 
'49,  McLean,  Va.,  George  E.  Saltus 
'53,  Boulder,  Co. 


Letters  to  the  editor  are  welcome.  All  points 
of  view  can  find  a  forum  in  this  section, 
and  we  encourage  the  exchange  of  ideas 
and  opinions  here.  For  reasons  of  space, 
variety,  timeliness,  and  interest  to  other 
readers,  we  may  not  publish  all  letters  re- 
ceived and  will  occasionally  excerpt  por- 
tions of  letters,  but  those  that  do  appear 
here  are  an  accurate  reflection  of  our  mail. 


Alpha  &  Omega — 
'downright  embarrassing' 

I  have  read  some — but  not  all — of  the 
de  Rhodas'  article  in  the  August  '73 
WPI  Journal.  It  is  always  useful  to 
break  new  ground  by  publishing  such 
material  in  an  unexpected  locale,  but 
in  this  case  the  material  appears  to  be 
particularly  unmatched  to  the  audi- 
ence. It  is  a  bit  like  presenting  an 
analysis  of  Finnig 'art's  Wake  to  a 
plumbers'  convention.  Only  in  this 
case  it  strikes  me  that  the  material 
presented  is  not  at  a  sufficiently 
sophisticated  level  to  appeal  to  more 
than  an  insignificant  minority  of  Tech 
graduates. 

After  all,  what  do  we  have  here? 
After  the  foggy  English  and  seemingly 
purposeful  obscurantism  is  sur- 
mounted, one  is  appalled  at  the 
simple  faith  in  ESP,  UFO  phenomena, 
and  the  significance  of  tales  of  pre- 
cognition by  Bulgarian  ladies — items 
that  are  the  standard  bill  of  fare  in  any 
railway  station  astrology  magazine. 
For  a  body  of  intelligent  men  and 
women  with  a  firm  training  in  the 
physical  sciences  and  statistics,  it 
must  be  downright  embarrassing  to 
have  the  naive  faith  of  the  de  Rhoda 
duo  so  thrust  upon  them. 

May  I  suggest  that  readers  of  the 
piece  who  were  rather  floored  (as  I 


^ 


was!)  by  the  verbiage — which  re- 
minded me  uncomfortably  of  a  literal 
translation  of  Kant — may  get  some 
frustration-relief  by  turning  to  a 
simpler  text  that  covers  much  of  the 
same  material.  I  refer  to  Martin 
Gardner's  delightful  book  Fads  and 
Fallacies  in  the  Name  of  Science,  a 
readily  available  Dover  paperback. 
But  if  you  want  to  keep  the  faith, 
baby,  stay  far  away  from  Mr.  Gardner's 
book. 

One  last  point.  In  the  third  para- 
graph of  their  piece,  the  authors 
imply  that  it  is  desirable  that  "all 
conflict  will  cease."  I  suggest  this  is 
nonsense — but  that  is  a  philosophical 
difference,  and  one  that  might  be 
profitably  debated  in  future  issues  of 
the  WPI  Journal.  But  in  English, 
please! 

David  Todd 

Professor  of  Chemistry,  WPI 


Wants  more 

It  has  been  my  good  fortune  to  have 
had  several  private  conversations 
with  the  de  Rhodas  in  addition  to 
listening  to  a  more  formalized  pres- 
entation of  their  theory  given  here 
in  Springfield  a  few  months  ago.  I 
feel  that  both  the  Institute  and  you 
are  to  be  congratulated  for  publishing 
this  article  and  would  certainly  sub- 
scribe to  a  continuation  of  the 
dialogue  between  author  and  reader 
in  future  issues  of  the  Journal. 

George  H.  Robillard,  Jr. 

Springfield,  Mass. 


The  Universe  has  blessed 
you 

You  will  soon  be  publishing  the 
"Alpha  and  Omega"  theory  by 
Andreas  and  Annette  de  Rhoda. 


I  have  known  Andreas  and  Annette 
for  many  years  and  they  have  had  a 
wonderful  influence  on  my  life.  The 
Universe  has  blessed  you  for  having 
the  foresight  to  publish  their  theory. 
James  Haller 
Portsmouth,  N.H. 


'However  complex' 

With  all  possible  concentration  I  read 
the  article  by  Andreas  and  Annette  de 
Rhoda  in  the  WPI  Journal,  and  I  can 
best  express  my  feelings  in  the  words 
of  a  person  unknown  to  me — "There 
is  no  subject,  however  complex, 
which  if  studied  with  patience  and 
intelligence,  will  not  become  more 
complex." 

.Since  the  de  Rhodas  believe  the 
future  to  be  unalterable,  it  is  en- 
couraging that  they  also  believe  a 
thermonuclear  holocaust  is  not  pos- 
sible. I  am  passing  the  magazine  along 
to  two  of  my  more  erudite  friends. 
Cordially, 

Alpha  Biocomputer 
Niagara  Falls,  N.  Y. 


'I  never  would  have 
known  .  .  .  ' 

I  found  "The  Theory  of  Alpha  and 
Omega  on  Planet  Earth"  a  fascinating 
article,  and  just  this  past  week  have 
found  two  people  who  made  remarks 
about  the  Humanness  of  life,  and  the 
leap,  and  I  never  would  have  known 
what  they  were  talking  about  if  I 
hadn't  read  this  article.  One  is  a 
minister  and  the  other  a  nun,  and  I'd 
like  very  much  to  be  able  to  give  them 
this  article  to  read,  but  don't  want  to 
lose  my  own. 

I   read  the  Journal  from  cover  to 
cover.  Sorry  we  missed  our  35th  Class 


Reunion  but  hope  to  make  the  40th 

if  all  goes  well. 

Doris  V.  Cloues 
(Mrs.  Richard  W.,  '38) 
Mil/brae,  California 


Can't  see  our  name 

Who  is  responsible  for  the  very 
diminutive  WPI  on  the  covers  of 
recent  WPI  Journals?  Why  so  modest? 
The  name  Journal  is  not  unique — lots 
of  Journals  come  in  my  mail  and  it  is 
hard  to  sort  them  if  the  leading  name 
doesn't  stand  out.  The  little  WPI 
reminds  me  of  the  tiny  signature  of 
President  Ralph  Earle  on  my  diploma 
— not  a  John  Hancock  to  be  sure. 

Carleton  F.  Maylott,  '26 

Wil/iamsvi/le,  N.Y. 

Up  until  spring  of  1971,  the  official 
title  of  the  magazine  was  The  Journal 
of  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute, 
but  even  then  the  name  of  the  school 
was  in  relatively  small  type — no  more 
than  one-eighth  the  size  of  Journal. 
S/>7ce  then  our  title  has  been  WPI 
Journal,  and  it  has  existed  in  two 
different  graphic  forms.  In  both  recent 
logos  the  WPI  has  been  quite  small, 
primarily  because  doing  that  provided 
a  pleasing  visual  solution  to  the  de- 
sign problem.  But  obviously  a  pretty 
face  is  not  enough,  and  a  number  of 
readers  have  echoed  Mr.  Maylott's 
words  in  their  comments  on  the 
questionnaire  which  was  included  in 
the  August  issue.  This  has  also  been 
mentioned  in  recent  professional  cri- 
tiques of  the  magazine. 

So  we  are  going  to  change  the 
Journal's  nameplate  once  more.  The 
new  version,  which  will  not  hide 
WP/'s  light  under  a  bushel  of  journals, 
should  make  its  appearance  with  the 
February  issue. 


The  IQP  Center  story 


(What's  an  IQP?) 

or. 

Have  I  got  a  project  for  you  !?! 


or. 

The  saga  of  how  ME  Prof.  Ray  Hagglund 
became  first  wrecker,  then  planner,  and 
finally  builder,  all  to  transform  an  unused 
attic  dump  in  Washburn  into  a  bright, 
sparkling  area  for  student  and  faculty 
project  work  aimed  at  applying  technological 


Wmm 


^„ 


skills  to  the  solution  of  social  problems; 
together  with  case  histories  of  selected 
student  projects  showing  the  WPI  Plan 
(surely  you  know  what  that  is  by  now) 
in  operation. 
Gesundheit.  byRuth-rrask    i 


The  ancient  third  floor  storage  attic  in  Washburn  was 
nothing  short  of  a  total  disaster.  Dust  an  inch  thick 
covered  everything  in  sight.  An  ugly,  full-sized  paint  house 
filled  one  corner.  Dim,  outmoded  industrial  lighting  fixtures 
dangled  from  the  ceiling. 

"It  was  a  real  dump,"  Ray  Hagglund  declares.  "And  it  was 
all  my  problem." 

Last  winter  WPI  officials  were  looking  for  someone  to  oversee 
the  creation  of  the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project  (IQP)  Center 
in  Washburn,  and  someone  thought  of  Hagglund.  A  1956  WPI 
graduate  with  a  fine  record  as  a  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering,  he  also  had  a  wealth  of  on-the-job  experience  in 
all  phases  of  construction  work.  He'd  almost  singlehandedly 
finished  off  the  interior  of  his  eye-stopping  Deck  House  in 
Holden.  Ray  had  taught  the  mysteries  of  do-it-yourself 
carpentry,  plumbing,  and  wiring  during  two  recent  Intersession 
courses.  Already  involved  in  setting  up  the  new  IQP  program 
on  campus,  he  was  a  true  believer  in  the  project  approach  to 
solving  problems;  by  renovating  the  Washburn  attic  he  could 
put  most  of  his  ideas  into  practice.  (What  better  way  to  build  a 
project  center  than  with  a  project-group  task  force?)  Hag- 
glund, officials  agreed,  looked  like  the  right  man  for  the  job. 

"What  about  it,  Ray?"  "Will  you  do  it?  We  need  to  know 
in  a  hurry.  There's  a  time  bind.  Some  of  the  bids  are  already 
out." 

"Just  how  long  can  you  give  me  to  decide  what  to  do  with 
the  place?"  he  asked. 

"Oh,  about  fifteen  minutes,"  came  the  reply. 

"How  about  a  week?"  Hagglund  countered. 

"You  win,"  they  said. 


Wli.it  he  had  won  was  time  -  no  prize.  The  whole  attic 
w  as  a  shambles. 
"And  looking  at  the  plans  that  I  had  been  given  to  work  with 
did  little  to  raise  my  spirits."  Hagglund  said. 

ise  of  skyrocketing  labor  costs,  tlu-  objectionable  paint 
house  (which  was  .1  building  inside  the  building)  had  to  remain 
intact  The  ceilings  were  to  be  sprayed  white.  New  industrial 
lighting  fixtures  would  be  installed.    The  floor  was  slued  to  be 

ted  a  <  heery  battleship  gray. 
"I  knew  that   I  could  never  Study  or  work  in  that  kind  of 
prisonlike     atmosphere."     Hagglund     says.     "How     could     we 
expect  the  students 


The  IQP  Committee  agreed.  After  the  attic  area  had  been 
cleaned,  new  plans  would  have  to  be  considered.  For  the  time 
being  the  committee  members  decided  to  go  along  with  what 
Hagglund  wanted,  provided  he  could  stay  within  a  limited 
budget. 

What  Hagglund  wanted  first  was  a  wrecking  crew,  and  he 
got  one.  In  less  than  half  an  hour  he'd  rounded  up  the  promise 
of  volunteer  service  from  EE  Prof.  James  Demetry,  '58,  and 
Joseph  Mieliniski,  '63  (projects  administrator),  and  others 
including  an  able  crew  of  students.  Inside  of  two  weekends  the 
area  was  completely  gutted  and  the  paint  house  had  become 
merely  a  memory. 

"A  pretty  grim  one  at  that,"  Hagglund  comments.  "It  was 
the  worst  demolition  project  that  we  had  to  tackle.  In  the  old 
days  when  the  paint  house  was  first  built,  there  must  have 
been  lots  of  nails  with  plenty  of  people  around  to  pound 
them.  There  were  several  board  partitions  pounded  into  2  x  4's 
with  paper  covering  each  partition.  The  entire  structure  was 
virtually  air  tight.  Finally  we  got  it  down,  and  we  managed  to 
salvage  some  of  the  boards  for  future  use." 

There  was  a  solid  floor-to-ceiling  partition  directly  in  the 
middle  of  the  main  attic  area  that  caused  trouble,  too. 
Demetry  managed  to  cut  through  it,  and  then  the  IQP 
Committee  decided  to  remove  it  entirely. 


Three  views  of  the  awful  mess  that  con- 
fronted Ray  Hagglund's  wrecking  crew. 


*^^  bout  this  time  the  IQP  Center  renovations  came  to  a 
^^kscreeching  halt.  There  were  rumblings  of  unrest  among 
the  campus  trade  unions  because  of  the  work  being  done  by 
faculty  and  students.  Some  feared  that  one  of  the  unions 
might  strike.  If  that  happened  would  the  "union  workers 
building  the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residences  strike  in  sym- 
pathy? But  beyond  the  labor-management  question,  there 
were  obviously  areas  in  which  professional  union  help  was 
needed.  City  building  codes,  for  instance,  require  that  licensed 
electricians  and  plumbers  perform  or  supervise  work  in  these 
areas. 

With  a  can-do  attitude  and  the  cooperation  of  the  skilled 
craftsmen  in  the  Buildings  and  Grounds  department,  these 
problems  were  solved.  The  Center  task  force  grew  to  include 
the  help  of  B&G  artisans  outside  of  their  regular  working 
hours  —  and  they  were  paid  accordingly. 

There  was  also  some  concern  about  insurance  coverage  for 
faculty  and  students  who  might  be  injured  while  working  on 
the  project  as  volunteers.  Arrangements  were  made  to  pay 
students  and  this  problem  also  disappeared. 

With  these  "details"  behind  him,  Hagglund  presented  a 
proposal  to  the  President's  Committee  outlining  his  plans  for 
completing  the  Center.  The  committee,  impressed,  gave  him 
total  responsibility  and  financial  authority.  Serving  as  his  own 
general  contractor,  Hagglund  underbid  other  competing  con- 
tractors. By  doing  their  own  work,  he  and  his  wrecking  crew 
(turned  builders)  saved  enough  money  to  include  wall-to-wall 
carpeting,  a  water  bubbler,  and  better  lighting,  none  of  which 
had  been  included  in  the  outside  bids.  Remarkably,  he  did  this 
while  employing  campus  union  workers  on  a  time-and-a-half 
basis. 


He  knew  how  to  cut  corners  and  come  out  ahead.  The  first 
decision  before  him  concerned  the  lighting.  By  following 
do-it-yourself  methods  he  was  able  to  buy  and  install  $120 
light  fixtures  (outside  contractor's  bid,  installed)  for  only  $42 
each. 

When  it  came  to  constructing  cubicles  where  students 
could  meet  and  work  in  small  (2-5  person)  groups,  toilet  room 
partitioning  at  $1  a  linear  foot  was  used.  "Why  not,"  Hagglund 
laughs.  "It's  the  same  stuff  they've  used  in  St.  Joseph's  Abbey. 
Repainted  it  looks  great.  Besides,  the  other  contractors  were 
bidding  anywhere  from  $12  to  $20  a  linear  foot  for  cubicle 
partitioning."  In  the  end  he  bought  more  than  he  needed  and 
resold  the  excess.  The  money  he  saved  by  using  the  unusual 
but  serviceable  partitioning  paid  for  the  carpeting. 

The  original  plans  had  no  provision  for  a  faculty  office 
area  in  the  Center,  but  Ray  felt  one  was  needed.  He  found 
enough  left-over  money  to  put  in  an  office  complex  in  which 
five  or  six  professors  can  work  at  the  same  time  in  relative 
privacy. 

"We  bought  used  walls  through  a  lumber  company  where  I 
used  to  wash  floors  as  a  student,"  Hagglund  explains.  "I 
collected  my  WPI  carpenter  crew  and  we  dismantled  the 
second-hand  partitions  (glass-topped,  steel-based)  and  brought 
them  back  here  for  $6  a  foot.  (Contractor's  price  new  —  $50  a 
footl) 

They  had  a  difficult  time  dislodging  the  partitions,  but  in 
spite  of  that,  and  in  spite  of  having  to  negotiate  the  walls 
down  a  steep,  winding  staircase  and  a  too-small  elevator,  they 
finally  managed  to  get  them  into  Washburn.  "It  was  worth 
every  bit  of  the  effort,"  Hagglund  says.  "And  not  just  because 
of  the  money  angle  either.  We  needed  those  partitions  to  make 


a  comfortable  faculty  section  in  the  Center.  Eventually  all  of 
the  faculty  will  be  connected  with  Interactive  Qualifying 
Project  work  and  they  may  want  to  hold  meetings  here,  right 
close  to  where  the  action  is." 

He  smiles  and  looks  at  a  high,  walled-in  area  at  one  side  of 
the  large  room.  "There's  very  little  action  going  on  in  there, 
though,"  he  says.  "That's  no-man's  land.  The  paint  house  was 
there  once.  Now  it's  just  a  storage  area  that  we  run  in  and  out 
of.  The  nuclear  reactor  is  directly  beneath  it  and  when  it's 
operating  it  sends  up  a  cone  of  radiation.  Something  like  the 
beam  of  a  flashlight.  There's  only  about  as  much  radiation 
loose  in  there  as  a  person  might  be  subjected  to  through  an 
airplane  window  on  a  flight  between  Boston  and  Los  Angeles. 
But  for  safety's  sake  and  because  it's  man-made  radiation,  we 
have  to  wall  it  up.  The  sun,  well,  we  can't  turn  that  off." 

Fortunately,  it  was  relatively  easy  to  turn  on  a  money  tap 
to  help  finance  the  renovations  at  the  Center,  mostly  from  one 
major  source.  In  1970  the  Sloan  Foundation  had  awarded  the 
college  $200,000  to  get  the  Environmental  Systems  Study 
Program  off  the  ground.  One  section  of  the  grant  allotted 
$15,000  to  refurbishing  office  space,  so,  with  that  and  other 
money  from  WPI,  the  renovations  went  ahead.  Sloan  grants 
also  covered  the  cost  of  typewriters,  closed-circuit  TV,  and  a 
computer  terminal. 

Hagglund  looks  around  the  facility  that  he  and  his 
wrecking  crew  had  helped  to  metamorphose  from  a  dingy  gray 
cocoon  into  a  modestly  colored  butterfly. 

The  bright  yellow,  white,  and  light  gray  outer  walls 
contrast  strikingly  with  the  walnut  and  lauan  paneling  of  the 
interior  walls.  Handsome  orange  tweed  carpets  the  floor.  The 
sloping,  beamed  ceiling  is  painted  a  chocolate  brown.  Many  of 
the  students'  private  work  cubicles  are  lined  up  directly  in 
front  of  a  large  bank  of  windows.  In  the  middle  of  the  room 
more  work  tables  are  situated  directly  under  rows  of  modern 
ceiling  lights.  Drawing  tables  are  scattered  throughout.  A  large 
conference  room  occupies  one  corner  of  the  Center.  The 
whole  area  is  spacious,  well  coordinated,  and  a  delight  to  the 
eye.  Annette  de  Rhoda  (coauthor  of  "Alpha  and  Omega,"  WPI 
Journal,  August  1973),  a  professional  interior  decorator, 
picked  the  colors  and  did  all  the  decorating,  donating  her 
services  to  WPI 


Both  Hagglund  and  Bernard  J.  Dodge,  '70  (associate 
projects  administrator)  are  enthusiastic  about  what  the 
IQP  Center  can  mean  to  the  student  just  becoming  involved 
with  the  world  of  the  Interactive  Qualifying  Project. 

"At  first  he  may  feel  overwhelmed  when  he  looks  at  the 
scores  of  projects  outlined  in  the  Projects  listing,"  Dodge  says. 
"But  by  coming  up  here  and  checking  the  Center  bulletin 
board  he'll  soon  find  others,  students  and  professors  alike, 
who  share  his  interests..  Before  he  knows  it,  he'll  have  zeroed 
in  on  a  project  that  really  interests  him." 

He  grins  and  adds,  "You  might  say  the  IQP  Center  is  a 
partner  in  a  three-sided  marriage,  along  with  the  faculty 
advisor  and  the  student,  with  each  partner  helping  the  others 
to  live  up  to  their  best  potential." 

"Actually,"  Hagglund  breaks  in,  "the  Center  is  a  noisy 
extension  of  the  library.  Study  and  research  can  be  carried  on 
here  side  by  side.  We're  open  from  8:30  A.M.  to  1 1  P.M.  and 
we  have  students  man  the  area  during  the  week  and  on 
weekends.  We're  almost  always  open  for  business." 

Introduction  to  Projects,  a  course  taught  by  Demetry  and 
Hagglund,  also  helps  the  student  over  the  hurdles  of  the 
project  approach  l>\  conditioning  him  to  think  broadly  and 
analytically.  One  of  the  problems  that  has  turned  up  in  this 
course  is:  "You've  got  guests  coming  to  a  fancy  dinner  at  your 
house.  You  discover,  to  your  dismay,  that  a  squirrel  has 
managed  to  get  into  your  chimney  and  is  scampering  around 
somewhere  above  the  closed  damper,  making  a  terrible  racket 
Your    resources    are     $10    and    you    have    one    hour    before 


Far  left:  One  end  of  the  attic  after  most  of  the  debris  and  junk  had 
been  cleared  out.  With  the  tearing  down  complete,  the  creation  of 
the  new  IQP  facility  could  begin. 

Left  and  right:  In  the  new  center,  project  work  is  well  underway 
with  students  and  faculty  in  planning  and  rap  sessions. 

Below:  A  formal  presentation  of  a  project  proposal  to  a  group  of 
interested  students  and  faculty  in  the  IQP  Conference  Room.  These 
presentations  are  made  after  preliminary  planning  work  is  complete, 
and  they  are  expected  to  be  done  professionally  using  all  relevant 
audio-visual  and  demonstration  aids.  Often  these  same  presentations 
will  be  repeated  to  enlist  the  aid  of  outside  sponsors. 


company  arrives.  What  would  you  do?"  Another  of  the  endless 
variations  is:  "A  woman  has  an  antique  glass  bottle  worth 
$700  into  which  her  daughter  puts  a  pet  bunny.  After  several 
weeks  the  bunny  is  too  fat  to  get  out  of  the  bottle,  and  very 
nearly  too  fat  to  remain  in  it.  Mother  and  daughter  are 
distraught  —  for  different  reasons.  What  should  be  done?" 

Of  course  these  problems  aren't  very  serious,  but  they  do 
act  as  mind-training  exercises  and  force  the  student  to  see  how 
technological  problems  can  exist  in  a  broader  human  context. 
Now  he  can  move  on  to  more  serious  problems  of  the  sort  an 
engineer  is  more  likely  to  encounter. 

Right  now  there  are  a  number  of  problem-solving  projects 
underway  at  the  Center.  Two  prime  examples  are  a  cable  TV 
study,  advised  by  EE  Prof.  James  Matthews,  and  Dial-A-Bus 
with  Jim  Demetry. 

Prof.  Matthews  and  his  students  are  putting  together  a 
study  for  the  town  manager  of  Holden,  Mass.  The  student 
project  group  is  weighing  the  pros  and  cons  of  each  potential 
cable  TV  system  from  every  angle,  all  the  way  from 
environmental  to  monetary,  in  the  event  that  commercial 
cable  TV  companies  approach  the  town.  Although  the  study  is 
presently  hypothetical,  the  students  hope  to  provide  the  town 
manager  with  enough  information  so  that  he  will  be  able  to 
make  the  wisest  possible  decision. 

Jim  Demetry  and  his  four  students  with  their  Dial-A-Bus 
project  are  looking  into  the  problem  of  public  transportation, 
particularly  in  the  area  of  busing.  Their  thesis  is  that  both  bus 
companies  and  the  public  might  be  better  served  if  smaller, 
15 -passenger  taxi-buses  were  used  as  feeder  vehicles  to  buses 
on  the  regular  lines.  In  suburban  towns,  particularly,  the 
regular  bus  often  stops  only  on  the  main  street.  If  taxi-buses 
were  made  available  in  the  residential  areas,  perhaps  the  public 


might  patronize  the  main  bus  line  more  often.  In  cities  the 
taxi-buses  could  cover  certain  routes  on  an  irregular  basis.  A 
person  could  phone  for  transportation  and  within  fifteen 
minutes  it  could  be  at  his  door,  and  he  would  then  join  fellow 
passengers  heading  in  the  same  general  direction. 

"The  students  quickly  found  that  what  had  originally 
looked  like  a  simple  idea,  was  really  very  complex,"  Demetry 
says.  "There  were  technical  aspects,  communications  difficul- 
ties, and  logistics  of  collecting  fares  to  be  considered.  Also, 
there  was  the  thorniest  question  of  all  —  how  would  the  public 
react  to  a  taxi-bus  proposal?" 

The  main  function  of  the  IQP  Center  is  to  bring  people 
like  Jim  Matthews  and  Jim  Demetry  together  with  students 
pursuing  similar  goals.  "In  these  particular  cases,  it  was  easy," 
according  to  Ray  Hagglund.  "It  doesn't  always  turn  out  to 
be."  The  concept  of  an  Interactive  Qualifying  Project  is 
difficult  for  some  professors  to  grasp  at  first.  "It  goes  against 
the  grain  of  an  engineer,"  Hagglund  observes.  "How  does  a 
physics  professor  go  about  advising  students  on  how  to  handle 
technology-related  social  problems?  He  has  a  physics  book  to 
guide  him  in  class.  But  there  is  no  such  thing  as  an  IQP 
textbook.  There  is  no  such  thing  as  a  people  meter  either.  He's 
completely  on  his  own." 

At  present,  another  slowing  factor  in  the  program  is  that 
too  many  professors  and  students  are  working  on  a  one-to-one 
basis  on  projects.  "They  have  to  learn  to  do  their  projects  in 
groups,"  says  Hagglund.  "It's  the  only  way  out.  There  simply 
aren't  enough  faculty  to  go  around."  He  laughs.  "But  they'll 
get  the  hang  of  everything  sooner  or  later.  Once  they  try 
advising  project  groups,  they  may  discover  that  they  like  it. 
Involvement  is  the  key.  .  .  involvement  and  commitment." 


Below:  Economics  professor  Robert  Bjork- 
lund  discusses  with  a  student  some  of  the 
points  he  ought  to  consider  in  his  project 
proposal. 


Ray  Hagglund  knows  what  he  is  talking  about.  He  has  had 
long  experience  in  helping  students  through  project  work. 
In  the  summer  of  1972,  for  example,  there  was  the  matter  of 
the  gyroscope  packages.  A  company  in  Uxbridge,  Mass., 
designed  a  package  supposed  to  protect  an  eight-pound 
gyroscope  in  a  30-inch  fall.  The  company  hired  Hagglund  as  a 
consultant  to  see  if  the  design  was  feasible.  Hagglund,  like  any 
other  consultant-professor,  made  his  own  calculations.  But 
then  he  did  something  else:  the  following  fall  he  put  the  entire 
project  into  the  hands  of  college  freshmen  who  had  yet  to 
open  an  engineering  textbook! 

"I  wanted  to  see  if  the  students,  working  in  small  groups, 
could  formulate  some  kind  of  approach  to  the  problem," 
Hagglund  explains.  "I  wanted  them  to  figure  out  exactly  what 
the  company  was  looking  for,  and  I  also  wanted  to  find  out  if 
they  knew  how  to  go  about  gathering  the  information 
necessary  to  solve  the  problem." 

Seven  weeks  later  the  freshmen  came  up  with  their  report. 
They  decided  that  the  cushioning  legs  in  the  package  would 
nut  be  adequate  to  protect  the  gyroscope  from  a  force  of  12 
G's  if  the  package  fell  on  its  side  from  a  height  of  30  inches, 
the  specifications  that  the  gyroscope  manufacturer  had  listed. 
They  suggested  that,  by  enlarging  the  container's  legs  and 
putting  them  in  different  positions,  the  specifications  could  be 
met.  One  of  the  failures  of  the  earlier  design  had  been  that  the 
too-short  legs  did  not  reach  the  corners  of  the  gyroscope's 
fiberglass  casing,  so  when  dropped  there  was  no  braking  action 
to  protect  the  instrument. 

But  it  wasn't  only  the  freshmen  who  had  a  go  at  the 
gyroscope  package.  As  an  experiment,  Hagglund  paid  a 
graduate  student,  a  senior,  and  a  junior  to  solve  the  same 
problem  as  a  competency  exam  inside  a  two-day  limit.  The 
result?  The  graduate  student  did  well,  the  senior  passed,  and 
the  junior  failed. 

This  problem  was  a  forerunner  of  the  kind  of  technical 
projects  required  in  the  WPI  Plan.  Students  must  complete  two 
projects  before  graduation,  one  in  their  major  field  and 
another,  the  IQP,  which  should  relate  technology  to  social 
problems 

"A  good  example  of  an  IQP  already  completed,"  Hagglund 
says,  "was  the  work  recently  done  by  eleven  WPI  students  in 
the  Worcester  Juvenile  Court  This  group  studied  the  flow  of 
information  in  the  court:  what  kind  of  information  is 
required,  and  how  it  is  gotten  and  used.  Computers  were  used 
to  speed  up  the  process  The  mam  object  <>l  ilns  project  wis  t<> 
discover  how  a  machine  based  information  System  would 
affect  people  " 


Right:  Prof.  Ray  Hagglund  discussing  the 
possibilities  of  a  project  dealing  with  energy 
measurement. 


Hagglund's  involvement  with  the  IQP  Center  during  the 
past  year  has  affected  a  number  of  people,  not  the  least  of 
whom  are  his  family.  "My  wife  and  daughters  certainly  didn't 
need  to  have  me  become  a  general  contractor,  in  addition  to 
being  a  professor,  to  get  the  IQP  program  and  Center  going, 
but  they  understood,"  he  says.  "Somebody  had  to  do  it.  I 
believe  in  the  Plan.  I  wanted  this  Center  to  be  worthy  of  the 
exciting  kinds  of  research  projects  that  are  starting  to  take 
root  here." 


Now  that  the  IQP  Center  has  been  completed,  the  IQP 
program  itself  moves  forward.  In  the  opinion  of  many 
observers  of  higher  education,  the  interactive  qualifying 
project  is  the  single  most  distinctive  feature  of  the  WPI  Plan, 
and  on  the  IQP's  success  or  failure  rests  the  success  or  failure 
of  WPl's  whole  educational  program  in  the  next  decade.  That, 
in  a  word,  is  commitment,  but  it  reflects  the  commitment  of 
most  faculty  and  students  to  make  the  WPI  Plan  work.  ■& 


M 


mm 


.mm*** 


: 


H 


•    ' 


ET^H 


MR 


Message  from  the  Middle  East 


WPI's  most  peripatetic  prof  probably  is  chemical 
engineering  professor  Alvin  H.  Weiss.  Last  year  he 
traveled  to  the  U.S.S.R.  as  American  coordinator  of  a 
joint  U.S. -Soviet  space  project.  For  1973-74  he  is  on 
sabbatical  leave,  teaching  in  the  Israeli  desert  at  the 
University  of  the  Negev. 

One  thing  about  Al  Weiss,  he  keeps  travel  diaries. 
The  account  of  his  Russian  visit  is  currently  being 
published  in  Chemical  and  Engineering  News.  Here  at 
WPI  we  have  just  received  a  letter  from  Al  telling  of  his 
experiences  in  attempting  to  enter  Israel  in  the  middle 
of  a  war.  We'd  like  to  share  this  with  Journal  readers, 
and  we  present  it  here  essentially  unedited. 


To  start  my  sabbatical  year  from  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute  the  Weiss  family  (Eileen,  Alvin  and  our  son,  Louis) 
flew  from  Boston  to  Zurich  on  September  1.  We  attended  the 
Third  Molecular  Sieve  Conference,  then  drove  through  the 
Swiss  Alps  and  stayed  at  Bregenz,  Austria,  on  the  Bodensee  in 
the  Bavarian  Alps.  Then  on  to  Munich  to  pick  up  our  Audi 
Fox  and  to  meet  our  daughter  Linda.  Munich,  especially  the 
Hofbrauhaus,  is  great  fun.  We  drove  south  through  the  Alps, 
staying  at  Innsbruck  and  then  through  the  Brenner  Pass  to 
Verona,  and  on  to  Rome,  where  we  spent  several  days  with 
dear  friends  (Alex  and  Vera  Logwinuk)  who  had  just  moved  to 
Italy.  They  have  rented  a  beautiful  villa  in  Ostia,  not  too  far 
from  the  sea.  Then  to  Sorrento  and  Capri  (in  the  rain-Feh!) 
and  by  ship  from  Brindisi,  Italy,  to  Patras,  Greece.  Louis  flew 
to  Israel  October  1,  and  the  rest  of  us,  after  a  few  days  south 
of  Athens  on  the  beach,  took  the  Hellenic  Mediterranean  Lines 
Cruise  Ship  "Appollonia"  from  Piraeus,  sailing  through  the 
Greek  Dodecanese  Islands.  A  nice  day  was  spent  on  the  most 
beautiful  island,  Rhodes,  and  then  Saturday  morning,  October 
6,  the  ship  stopped  at  Limassol,  Cyprus,  on  its  way  to  Haifa. 

And  that  is  when  the  war  started! 

The  captain  of  the  ship  was  not  permitted  by  his  Company 
to  proceed  to  Haifa,  100  miles  away,  and  instead  sailed  to 
Famagusta,  Cyprus,  on  Sunday,  October  7,  the  day  we  had 
planned  to  arrive  in  Israel.  The  tension  on  the  ship  was  fierce, 
the  Israelis  aboard  organized  the  passengers,  and  almost 
everyone  (except  round-trip  tourist  groups)  voted  not  to 
accept  their  passports  and  disembark.  At  night,  we  were  able 
to  see  explosion  flashes  in  Syria  right  from  the  ship. 


The  ship  stayed  at  the  dock,  with  passengers  and  crew  as 
tense  as  imaginable.  Consuls  from  the  embassies  and 
newsmen  were  constantly  present.  Finally,  on  October  9,  the 
Port  of  Haifa  was  officially  closed,  and  the  ship  had  a  legal 
excuse  to  terminate  the  voyage  at  Famagusta 

So  \\c.  and  all  others  destined  for  Haifa,  disembarked.  The 
young  people  camped  near  the  walled  Turkish  quarter,  those 
without    CMS  went    to  Nicosia   to  be  near  the  airport,  and  we 


rented  an  apartment  on  the  beach  in  Famagusta.  It  is  quite  a 
beautiful  place,  much  like  a  micro-Miami  Beach  with  a 
Greco-Turkish  flavor. 

On  the  morning  of  the  13th,  Eileen  learned  that  a  tramp 
steamer  was  leaving  for  Haifa  in  an  hour,  so  we  filled  our  car 
with  luggage,  practically  cleaned  out  a  Cyprus  Super  Market 
since  the  BBC  was  (erroneously)  claiming  there  were  great 
food  shortages  in  Israel,  and  drove  right  to  shipside  and 
watched  the  car  be  hoisted  aboard.  Then,  El  Al  arranged  a 
special  flight  in  the  wee  hours  the  following  night.  We  left 
Cyprus  with  only  normal  searches,  and  the  jet,  filled  with  very 
happy  and  relieved  people,  with  all  lights  on  and  "Fiddler  on 
the  Roof"  playing,  made  the  half-hour  flight  to  Lod  Airport, 
Tel  Aviv,  at  3:00  a.m.  on  October  15. 


As  a  warm  gesture  of  Israeli  hospitality,  we  were  met  at 
kthe  airport  by  Clive  Burton  of  the  University  of  the 
Negev,  who  drove  us  to  the  Desert  Inn  in  Beer  Sheva  (a  Las 
Vegas  without  crap  tables).  Convoys  of  troops  were  every- 
where, and  it  was  inspiring  to  see  elderly  men  and  women 
operating  volunteer  free  coffee  and  food  stands  along  the 
highways  for  them.  The  soldiers  were  incredibly  young, 
exhausted  on  their  way  from  the  Golan  Heights  to  the  Sinai. 

Wartime  Israel  was  an  interesting  situation.  Daily  com- 
merce and  civilian  driving  were  in  no  way  hampered.  Food, 
gasoline,  and  everything  except  tourists  were  plentiful.  The 
,  really  careless  blackout  at  night  was  the  only  apparent 
concession  to  the  emergency  to  which  every  last  man  and 
woman  in  the  country  was  committed.  Trains  ran  on  normal 
schedules,  and  we  went  to  Haifa  the  day  after  our  arrival  to 
retrieve  our  trunks  and  car  at  the  port.  We  also  attended  the 
Israel  Philharmonic  Orchestra  concert  that  night  with  Zubin 
Mehta  conducting  and  featuring  the  pianist  Jean-Bernard 
Pommier.  Proceeds  of  the  concert  went  to  the  war  effort. 

Our  apartment  in  Beer  Sheva  is  situated  on  one  of  the  two 
main  supply  routes  to  the  Sinai,  and  the  troop  activity  and 
convoys  during  the  nights  were  impressive.  We  have  an  air-raid 
shelter  in  the  building,  and  the  sirens  would  sound  whenever  a 
UFO  crossed  the  Suez.  By  the  date  we  arrived,  nobody 
bothered  to  go  to  the  shelter  except  us,  once,  since  the  Israelis 
figured  that  it  was  impossible  for  a  plane  to  penetrate  as  far  as 
Beer  Sheva. 

The  Israelis  are  very  efficient.  Monuments  serve  as  lookout 
towers,  for  example,  and  the  soldiers  enjoyed  having  us  come 


up  and  visit  with  them.  Troops  move  around  the  country  to 
their  posts  by  hitch-hiking,  and  we,  as  everyone  else,  always 
made  sure  we  had  a  car  full  of  soldiers,  usually  with  their 
machine  guns.  (Incidentally,  theirs  is  the  only  one  in  the  world 
with  a  bottle  opener  built  into  the  handle  —  that's  foresight.) 

We  drove  to  the  Dead  Sea  and  along  the  Jordanian  border 
on  the  20th.  Except  for  the  empty  hotels  and  hitch- 
hiking soldiers  one  would  not  imagine  that  he  was  looking 
across  the  border  of  two  warring  countries.  The  Dead  Sea 
Potash  Plant  was  in  full  operation  on  the  border.  Northern 
Negev  desert  and  Dead  Sea  area  are  very  reminiscent  of  the 
barren,  rugged  mountainous  desert  area  around  Hoover  Dam  in 
Nevada  and  Arizona,  and  not  at  all  sand  dunes  like  the  Sahara. 
Camels,  donkeys,  and  Bedouins  are  very  colorful  inhabitants 
of  this  area. 

Since  practically  all  the  students  and  professors  were  in  the 
army,  the  Technion  in  Haifa  was  totally  closed  down.  The 
University  of  the  Negev  remained  open  to  organize  volunteer 
services,  but  there  were  no  classes.  Linda  went  out  picking 
cucumbers  as  her  contribution  to  the  war  effort. 

Beer  Sheva  has  an  Absorption  Center  for  new  immigrants, 
who  are  constantly  coming  in.  They  are  mainly  Russian  Jews, 
and  literally  thousands  are  emigrating  here.  Many  are  very 
cultured  and  we  heard  an  excellent  chamber  music  concert 
from  them  one  evening. 

I  am  writing  this  on  the  22nd  of  October,  the  day  Kissinger 
visited  Israel.  Hopefully,  the  cease-fire  will  hold  and  peace 
will  come  to  this  dynamic,  determined  little  country.  Shalom 
from  all  of  us. 

Al  Weiss 


Your  Class 
and  Others 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  October  1 ,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information  re- 
ceived after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1910 


CARLYLE  A.  ATHERTON  has  moved  from 
Kimball  Towers  in  Springfield,  Mass.  to  533 
Konsigswinter,  Am  Domstein  9,  c/o  Joseph 

G.  Bradley,  Jr.,  West  Germany MILLARD 

F.  CLEMENT  has  returned  to  Massachusetts 
(Granby)  after  49  years  as  a  New  Yorker. 
He  writes  that  it  takes  more  than  one  genera- 
tion to  make  a  New  Yorker  out  of  a  New 
England  Yankee  who  was  "brought  up  in 
the  White  Mountains  of  New  Hampshire." 


1921 


GENERAL  WILLIAM  S.  LAWTON  (ret.) 
recently  received  Lambda  Chi  Alpha's  Order 
of  Achievement  Award  in  recognition  of  his 
38  years  of  distinguished  military  service. 
During  his  career  he  was  Chief  of  Staff  of 
Army  Field  Forces  in  Virginia,  Chief  of  Staff 
of  the  Central  Pacific  Area,  and  Chief  of  Staff 
for  the  East  Command.  He  served  as  Com- 
manding General  of  the  Korean  Communica- 
tion Zone  and  Comptroller  of  the  Army  in 
Washington.  Among  his  decorations  are  the 
Distinguished  Service  Medal,  Legion  of 
Merit,  and  the  Bronze  Star  Currently  he  is 
vice-chairman  of  the  Board  of  the  Govern- 
ment Savings  and  Loan  Corporation. 


1926 


Professor  Emeritus  KENNETH  G.  MERRIAM 
is  listed  in  the  1972-73  edition  of  Who's 
Who  For  many  years  he  taught  in  the 
mechanical  engineering  department  at  WPI, 
retiring  in  1969. 


1927 


ARTHUR  C.  MANNING,  owner  of  Arthur 
Manning  Associates,  Upper  Montclair,  N.J. 
has  been  elected  secretary  of  the  Society  of 
Professional  Management  Consultants,  Inc., 
New  York  City.  The  Society  is  the  oldest 
organization  serving  the  individual  profes- 
sional management  consultant  and  has  been 
accrediting  members  since  1 960. . . .  PURDY 
F.  MEIGS  recently  retired  to  Roswell,  N.M. 
where  he  was  interested  to  find  that  a 
Goddard  Tower  and  rocket  are  featured  at 
the  Roswell  Museum.  Dr.  Robert  H. 
Goddard,  '08,  "father  of  the  modern 
rocket,"  did  basic  research  at  Roswell 
during  the  1  930's  and  1  940's. 


1930 


Dr.  HARRY  A.  SORENSEN,  professor 
emeritus  of  mechanical  engineering  at 
Washington  State  University,  is  currently 
listed  in  Who's  Who.  He  is  the  author  of  the 
textbook.  Gas  Turbines. 


1934 


GEORGE  KALISTA  writes  that  he  recently 
attended  the  unveiling  of  the  portrait  of 
former  WPI  president  RALPH  EARLE,  '95, 
at  the  Officer's  Club  at  Naval  Ammunition 
Depot  Earle,  Colts  Neck,  N.J.  Earle  was 
president  of  WPI  from  1925  until  his  death 
in  1939.  Previously  he  had  served  in  the 
Navy  with  distinction  in  the  World  War  I 
era  and  later  as  Chief  of  the  Bureau  of 
Ordnance.  Kalista  says,  "When  I  first  came 
aboard  and  saw  (Admiral  Earle's)  picture,  I 
was  deeply  moved.  It  took  me  back  to  the 
days  at  Tech,  when  as  a  student,  I  knew 
him."  Kalista  is  connected  with  the  labora- 
tory at  the  station. 


1936 


JOSEPH  R  HASTINGS,  Jr.  is  vice  president 
and  director  of  Frank  B  Hall  &  Co.,  Inc., 
New  York  City. 


1937 


LAURENCE  F.  GRANGER  has  retired  from 
the  American  Iron  &  Steel  Institute,  New 
York  City.  He  is  presently  located  in  South 
Yarmouth,  Mass. 


1938 


ROBERT  A.  EVANS  has  been  appointed 
assistant  vice  president  of  mechanical  and 
nuclear  engineering  at  Northeast  Utilities, 
Berlin,  Conn.  In  1 955  he  joined  the  Hartford 
Electric  Light  Co.,  now  a  Northeast  sub- 
sidiary. He  transferred  to  Northeast  in  1967 
as  chief  mechanical  engineer  and  was  named 
manager  of  mechanical  and  nuclear  engi- 
neering in  1969.  .  .  .  ROBERT  W.  O'BRIEN 
is  purchasing  manager  at  Sealtest  Foods, 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  STICKLE 
is  a  group  leader  at  Dow  Chemical  Co., 
Midland,  Mich. 


1941 


Dr.  JOHN  B.  BELL,  Jr.  has  been  named 
director,  project  development,  of  Cyanamid 
International's  Latin  American  Region.  He 
has  been  manager  of  the  Market  Research 
Department  in  the  Commercial  Develop- 
ment Division  of  American  Cyanamid  Com- 
pany. Prior  to  entering  commercial  develop- 
ment he  was  a  research  chemist  with 
Jefferson  Chemical  Company,  a  joint  ven- 
ture of  Cyanamid  and  Texico  which  he  joined 

in  1  946 WILLIAM  R.  HIGGINS  is  senior 

staff  engineer  at  Schwitzer,  Division  of 
Wallace-Murray,  Indianapolis,  Ind.  .  . 
HILLIARD  W.  PAIGE,  president  of  General 
Dynamics  Corp.,  has  been  named  chairman 
and  chief  executive  of  the  CML  Satellite 
Corporation  of  Washington,  D.C.  Prior  to 
joining  General  Dynamics  two  years  ago,  he 
was  with  General  Electric  for  29  years, 
where  he  served  as  senior  vice  president  and 
aerospace  and  computer  group  executive. 
His  new  company,  CML,  was  formed  two 
years  ago  to  develop  a  domestic  satellite 
system  to  serve  business,  computer  and 
television  markets.  It  is  owned  equally  by 
the  Communication  Satellite  Corporation, 
the  MCI  Communications  Corp.,  and  the 
Lockheed  Missile  and  Space  Company.  The 


Portrait  of  Admiral  Ralph  Earle,  sixth  presi- 
dent of  WPI,  which  now  hangs  in  the 
Officers  Club  at  Naval  Ammunition  Depot 
Earle.  The  picture  was  sent  in  by  George 
Kalista,  '34. 


Federal  Communications  Commission  ap- 
proved CML's  application  to  develop  the 
satellite  in  1972. 


1942 


WARREN  B.  ZEPP  is  now  teaching  me- 
chanical drawing  at  Nashoba  Regional  High 
School,  Bolton,  Mass. 


1943 


ARNOLD  R.  JONES  was  recently  appointed 
divisional  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  Engineering  and  Construction 
Services,  a  new  position  at  Norton  Company, 
Worcester.  Previously  he  was  director  of 
Engineering  and  Construction  Services.  In 
his  new  post  he  is  responsible  for  E  &  C 
Services  support  of  Norton's  Worcester  and 
worldwide  facilities.  He  also  supervises  the 
negotiations  and  sale  of  Norton  abrasive 
technology  to  foreign  countries,  including 
two  agreements  with  the  Soviet  Union  and 
Rumania.  .  .  .  JACKSON  L.  DURKEE  writes 
that  he  extends  a  challenge  to  the  rest  of 
the  class  to  a  son-in-law  contest.  As  of 
August  25,  with  the  marriage  of  his  youngest 
daughter,  he  boasts  three — designated  S1, 
S2,  and  S3.  "Any  contenders?"  he  asks.  As 
for  professional  activities,  Jack  continues  as 
chief  bridge  engineer  of  Bethlehem  Steel's 
'  fabricated  steel  construction  division.  He 
was  recently  elected  a  Fellow  of  the  Institu- 
tion of  Civil  Engineers,  Great  Britain. 


1944 


RICHARD  K.  MERRELL  is  currently  a  sales 
engineer  at  Spectrumite  Corp.,  Worcester. 
.  .  .  JOHN  R.  McCLAIN,  Jr.  was  one  of  the 
co-authors  of  the  article,  "Manufacturing 
Development  For  the  Miniature  Wire  Spring 

J  Relay",  which  appeared  in  the  July  issue  of 
Western  Electric's  The  Engineer.  He  is  a 
planning  engineer  and  a  member  of  minia- 
ture wire  spring  relay  manufacturing  engi- 
neering at  the  Columbus  Works.  His  assign- 

'  ments  have  included  manufacturing  devel- 
opment engineering  for  Electronic  Switching 
Systems  and  products  engineering  for  the 


miniature  wire  spring  relay.  Mr.  McClain  is  a 
Registered  Professional  Engineer  in  the 
State  of  Ohio.  He  joined  Western  Electric  in 
1959. 


1945 


WILLIAM  C.  HOWARD  has  been  named 
corporate  vice  president  of  the  new  Abra- 
sives Marketing  Group  at  Norton  Company, 
Worcester.  Earlier  he  was  divisional  vice 
president,  sales,  Grinding  Wheel  Division. 
The  new  organization  will  provide  central- 
ized marketing  services  to  the  company's 
Grinding  Wheel  and  Coated  Abrasive  Divi- 
sions. Howard  joined  Norton  in  1948  as  a 
sales  trainee.  He  is  a  member  of  Sales  and 
Marketing  Executive  International  and  Ma- 
chinery and  Allied  Products  Institute  Market- 
ing Council.  .  .  .  HUGO  L.  NORIGE  is  now 
with  Millers  Falls  Co.,  Manchester,  Conn.  .  .  . 
SIDNEY  B.  WETHERHEAD  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  a  new  corporate  post,  interna- 
tional director  of  engineering  and  construc- 
tion services,  at  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester. 
He  had  been  area  director  for  Europe,  Africa, 
and  the  Middle  East,  Abrasive  Operations. 
He  joined  Norton  in  1947. 


1946 


JOSEPH  J.  CONROY,  Jr.  works  for  Seam- 
less Rubber  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
FOSTER  JACOBS  is  now  director  of  plan- 
ning and  plant  at  Southeastern  Massachu- 
setts University,  North  Dartmouth,  Mass. 
Previously  he  was  director,  physical  plant, 
at  Princeton  University.  Last  May  the 
Jacobses  enjoyed  a  trip  to  Switzerland  and 
France.  .  .  .  Currently  DONALD  J.  GIRARD 
is  general  manager  of  Trane  Western  Hemi- 
sphere, Inc.  and  vice  president  of  Caribbean 
Centrifugal    Services,    Inc.,    in    San    Juan, 

Puerto  Rico FREDERICK  J.  KULL  serves 

as  administrator-grade  crossing  program  in 
the  Safety  and  Freight  Claim  Prevention 
Department  of  the  Southern   Railway  Co., 

Atlanta,  Ga EDMUND  S.  OSHETSKY  is 

resident  manager  at  Lincoln  Pulp  &  Paper 
Co.,  Inc.,  Lincoln,  Me. 


1948 


ROBERT  H.  ADAMS  serves  as  vice  presi- 
dent-electrical products  group,  at  Gould, 
Inc.,  Chicago,  III.  .  .  .  EDMUND  J.  EAGER 
is  a  proposal  engineer  for  Westinghouse  in 
Greentree,  Pa. 


1949 


WILLIAM  A.  JULIAN  is  now  a  self- 
employed  land  developer  and  is  located  in 
McLean,  Va.  .  .  .  PAAVO  JUNNO  works  as 
a  plant  manager  for  J.  G.  Tilp,  Inc.,  Union, 
N.J. 


1950 


STANLEY  FRIEDMAN  has  been  appointed 
as  chairman  of  the  Corporate  Liaison  Com- 
mittee of  the  United  Way  of  the  Tonawandas 
(N.Y.),  Inc.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  W.  NORTON  is  a 
general  engineer  with  Monsanto  in  South 
Windsor,  Conn. 


1951 


WILLIAM  J.  CUNNEEN  is  now  assistant  to 
the  chief  control  system  engineer  at  Stone 
&  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  RODERICK  J. 
HORTON  holds  the  post  of  reliability  man- 
ager at  Industria  Electrica  De  Mexico,  S.A., 
in  Tlalnepantla,  Mexico.  .  .  .  DEWEY  R. 
LUND  works  as  assistant  product  manager 
at  Pressure  Products  (Division  of  Duriron 
Co.,  Inc.),  Hatboro,  Pa.  .  .  .  KENNETH  E. 
MAYO  and  his  company,  Tuned  Sphere 
International,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H.  are  devel- 
oping a  sphere  which  will  keep  oil  super- 
tankers 20  miles  offshore,  cut  unloading 
time  and  import  premiums,  and  also  satisfy 
the  environmentalists.  The  use  of  such 
floating  terminals  could  reduce  the  cost  of 
oil  imported  to  this  country  by  15  cents  a 
barrel  according  to  an  article  which  ap- 
peared in  a  recent  issue  of  New  Englander 
Yankee,  Inc. 


1953 


EMIL  G.  LARSON,  who  recently  retired 
from  the  Air  Force  with  the  rank  of  lieutenant 
colonel,  has  been  appointed  Public  Build- 
ings Commissioner  in  Newton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Dr.  HERBERT  SLOTNICK  has  been  pro- 
moted to  the  rank  of  full  professor  at  Central 
Connecticut  State  College,  New  Britain, 
Conn.  He  had  been  a  member  of  the  Chemis- 
try Department  since  1  967  and  has  received 
numerous  research  grants.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  S. 
ZUCKER  is  the  newly-elected  president  of 
the  Wappingers  (N.Y.)  Board  of  Education. 
His  district  is  one  of  the  largest  central 
districts  in  the  state  and  has  a  budget  in 
excess  of  $20  million. 


1954 


1958 


1959 


18 


GREGORY  P.  ARVANTELY  is  now  a  staff 
engineer  at  IBM  Corp.,  Manassas,  Va.  .  .  . 
MARVIN  V.  McCOY  serves  as  regional  sales 
managerfor  ITT-Blackburn,  Merrimack,  N.H. 
.  .  .  DAVID  F.  GILBERT,  works  manager  at 
E.I.  DuPont  deNemours  and  Company, 
Montague,  has  been  named  chairman  of  the 
Challenge  Division  for  the  1  974  United  Way 
Campaign  in  Whitehall,  Mich.  .  .  .  GEORGE 
H.  KAY,  Jr.  is  presently  quality  assurance 
managerfor  D.  G.  O'Brien,  Inc.,  Framingham, 
Mass. 


1956 


ALLAN  C.  HAMILTON,  Jr.  is  department 
chief-process  engineering  at  Western  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Inc.,  Richmond,  Va.  .  .  .  HALBERT 
E.  PIERCE,  department  superintendent  of 
fine  chemicals  at  Hooker  Chemical  Corp., 
has  joined  the  United  Way  1973  Campaign 
as  a  unit  chairman  in  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y. 
Previously  he  had  served  in  United  cam- 
paigns as  a  large  firms  captain,  as  Hooker's 
United  Way  Campaign  chairman,  and  as 
Niagara  plant  chairman.  Mr.  Pierce  is  also 
treasurer  of  the  Parents  Association  of  Hear- 
ing Handicapped  Children  of  Western  New 
York  .  .  .  ROY  A.  SEABERG  has  been  pro- 
moted to  associate  director  of  admissions  at 
WPI 


1957 


WARNER  I  CLIFFORD  holds  the  position 
of  superintendent  of  construction  at  Stone 
8.  Wobster.  Boston  .  .  .  JOHN  D  MINOTT, 
environmental  engineer  at  Continental  Oil 
Company's  vinyl  chloride  monomer  plant  81 
ike,  La .,  was  the  author  of  the  article, 
"A  W;it<r  Treating  Systom  For  a  VCM 
Plant"  in  the  August  issue  of  Chemical 
Engineering  Progreaa  (CI  P)  Currently 

PAUL  M  MITCHELL  is  produci  manager  .it 
■..  inc  ,  Brussels.  Belgium 


RAYMOND  A.  JOHNSON,  vice  president 
and  sales  manager  of  Johnson-Claflin  Corp., 
Marlboro,  Mass.  was  recently  named  "Celeb- 
rity of  the  Week"  in  Marlboro.  He  became 
the  third  generation  member  of  the  family  to 
become  associated  with  Johnson-Claflin  in 
1961  after  he  had  served  at  the  Missile 
Testing  Headquarters  of  the  Redstone 
Arsenal  in  Huntsville,  Ala.  for  two  years. 
Active  with  the  Young  Republicans,  he  was 
also  named  through  the  Jaycees  as  one  of 
the  "Outstanding  Young  Men  of  America" 
in  1  968.  In  1  969  he  was  presented  a  plaque 
by  the  editorial  board  of  Community  Leaders 
of  America  and  was  listed  in  "Who's  Who 
in  American  Politics."  .  .  .  SHERMAN  K. 
POULTNEY  is  currently  a  research  associate 
professor  at  Old  Dominion  University,  Nor- 
folk, Va.  In  his  new  position  he  will  work 
closely  with  a  NASA  Langley  group  on  a 
theoretical/experimental  program  to  develop 
active  optical  sensors  for  remote  measure- 
ments of  aerosol  and  gaseous  pollutants  in 
the  lower  atmosphere.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  A. 
RABINOVITCH  recently  opened  his  new 
studio-art  gallery,  Rabinovitch  &  Guerra 
Gallery,  at  63  Crosby  St.,  New  York  City. 


BURNHAM  H.  BAKER  is  director  of  corpo- 
rate planning  at  Addressograph-Multigraph 
in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  PETER  K.  BERTSCH 
serves  as  a  senior  development  engineer  for 
Cottrell    Co.    (Division    of    Harris-lntertype 

Corp.),  Westerly,  R.I Presently  THOMAS 

F.  HUMPHREY  is  director  of  Bureaus  of 
Transportation  Planning  and  Development 
for  the  Commonwealth  of  Massachusetts, 
Department  of  Public  Works,  Boston.  .  .  . 
ROGER  W.  KUENZEL  works  as  a  project 
representative  (sewer  improvements)  at 
Smith,  Miller  &  Associates,  Kingston,  Pa.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  U.  PURSELL,  Jr.  is  materials 
manager  for  Reed  Tool  Co.,  Houston,  Texas. 
.  .  .  GORDON  H.  SIGMAN  now  serves  as 
chief  of  the  Artillery,  Infantry  and  Combat 
Vehicle  Fire  Control  Division  at  Frankford 
Arsenal,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  .  PAUL  M. 
STONE  works  as  a  self-employed  civil 
engineer  in  Long  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  HOWARD 
H.  STREET  holds  the  position  of  product 
superintendent  at  E.I.  duPont  deNemours  & 
Co.,  Orange,  Texas. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mess.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1960 


GEORGE  S.  BEEBE  has  been  named  man- 
ager, plant  engineering  and  facilities,  at 
Compugraphic  Corporation,  Wilmington, 
Mass.  Formerly  he  was  facilities  planning 
manager  for  Digital  Equipment  Corporation, 

Maynard ANDREW  R.  MILLS  is  program 

development  manager  at  Hewlett  Packard, 
Sunnyvale,  California. 


1961 


Married:  JOSEPH  F.  GLIWSKI  to  Miss  Gail 
D.  Rozman  in  Chicopee,  Massachusetts  on 
August  11,  1973.  Mrs.  Gliwski  is  a  graduate 
of  the  University  of  Massachusetts.  Her 
husband  is  with  Hearthstone  Insurance  Co. 
of  Massachusetts  in  Boston. 

Dr.  JAY  A.  FOX  has  been  cited  at  the  U.S. 
Army  Mobility  Equipment  and  Development 
Center,  Fort  Belvoir,  Va.  for  co-authoring 
the  paper  "Laser  Induced  Shock  Effects  in 
Plexiglas  and  60061 -T6  Aluminum"  which 
appeared  in  the  June  issue  of  Applied 
Physics  Letters.  .  .  .  LEO  J.  ROBICHAUD  is 
superintendent  for  Cianbro  Corp.,  Presque 
Isle,  Maine. 


1962 


Dr.  CHARLES  F.  BELANGER,  Jr.  is  a  pedi- 
atrician in  Saco,  Maine.  .  .  .  JOHN  E.  MAT- 
SON  serves  as  branch  sales  manager  at 
Carrier  Air  Conditioning  Co.,  East  Syracuse, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Prof.  LEE  C.  SIROIS  is  the  new 
director  of  student  affairs  at  American  Inter- 
national College,  Springfield,  Mass.  He  has 
taught  psychology  at  AIC  since  1965  and 
has  published  articles  on  the  effects  of 
magnesium  pemoline,  a  memory  stimulant. 
...  Dr.  JOSEPH  T.  SWARTZBAUGH  is  an 
associate  research  physicist  at  the  University 
of  Dayton  in  Ohio. 


1963 


Married:  RICHARD  T.  DANN  and  Miss 
■  Charlene  T.  Lanza  on  September  22,  1973 
in  West  Hartford,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Dann 
was  graduated  from  the  Surgical  Technician 
Program  at  Hartford  Hospital.  Mr.  Dann  is 
an  assistant  editor  of  Machine  Design 
Magazine. 

PETER  BARSS,  who  has  been  a  member 
of  the  faculty  at  Nashoba  Regional  High 
School,  Bolton,  Mass.  for  the  past  six  years, 
is  taking  a  year's  leave  of  absence  so  that 
he  may  write  a  book.  He  and  his  family  are 
now  located  in  Nova  Scotia  where  he  is 
gathering  material  for  his  book  which  will 
be  a  photographic  essay  of  the  fishermen  in 
,    the  area. 


1964 


Prof.  BRADLEY  T.  GALE,  who  is  taking  a 
15-month  sabbatical  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts,  is  currently  at  Marketing 
Sciences  Institute,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
BARRY  J.  KADETS  is  now  with  the  Analytic 
Sciences  Corp.,  Reading,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID 
D.  McCAFFREY  holds  the  post  of  technical 
sales  representative  at  Union  Carbide  Corp., 
Chicago.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  MUSELER 
recently  joined  Long  Island  Lighting  Com- 
pany, Hicksville,  N.Y.,  where  he  is  assistant 
project  engineer  in  the  Nuclear  Projects  De- 
partment. He  is  primarily  involved  with  the 
Shoreham  Nuclear  Power  Station.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  B.  NEWMAN,  Jr.  works  as  a 
salesman  for  Teradyne,  Inc.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
Capt.  WALDEMAR  C.  ZISCH  has  received 
his  second  award  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Com- 
mendation Medal  at  Pease  AFB,  N.H.  He 
was  cited  for  his  meritorious  service  as  a 
missile  launch  control  officer  at  Vandenberg 
AFB,  Calif.  Presently  he  is  an  electrical 
engineering  training  officer  with  a  unit  of 
the  Strategic  Air  Command  at  Pease. 


1965 


Married:  Capt.  ERIC  P.  WAR  MAN,  USAF, 
and  Miss  Gisela  G.  Carlstrom  on  September 
8,  1973  in  Worcester.  The  bride  was  gradu- 
ated from  the  University  of  Connecticut  and 
is  a  social  worker  for  the  Massachusetts 
Department  of  Public  Welfare.  Her  husband 
is  stationed  at  Ft.  Walton  Beach,  Florida. 

RAYMOND  J.  AGNELLO  is  general  man- 
ager at  Humphreys  Exterminating  Co.,  Inc., 
Fallston,  Md.  .  .  .  PHILIP  BAKER,  a  senior 
systems  engineer  at  Polaroid  for  five  years, 
holds  several  patents  through  Polaroid.  In 
September  The  Times  of  Peabody,  Mass. 
announced  that  he  had  been  selected  as  a 
judge  for  its  "Phlugerhaggen  Contest."  .  .  . 
CHARLES  W.  CLARK  is  service  engineer 
at  Hewlett  Packard  and  is  located  in  Love- 
land,  Colorado.  .  .  .  CHARLES  S.  FRARY  III 
serves  as  commercial  supervisor-forecasting 
staff,  at  New  England  Telephone,  Boston. 
.  .  .  RONALD  G.  FRIEND  has  joined  the 
Masoneilan  Regulator  Company  of  Nor- 
wood, Mass.  where  he  is  chief  engineer. 
Formerly  he  was  associated  with  the  James- 


bury  Corporation,  Worcester.  .  .  .  WALTER 
E.  HENRY,  Jr.  works  as  plant  engineering 
manager  at  Hewlett-Packard  Co.,  Waltham, 

Mass MICHAEL  G.  KULLAS  is  assistant 

manager  at  Windsor  Gardens  Drug,  Denver, 

Colorado ROBERT  K.  WAITE,  Jr.  is  now 

manager  of  Peebles  Jewel  Shop  in  Berk- 
shire Plaza,  North  Adams,  Mass.  His  parents 
are  owners  and  operators  of  the  business. 
He  was  with  American  Machine  and  Foundry 
Corp. 


1966 


ANDREW  J.  FISH,  Jr.  has  received  his 
MSEE  from  the  University  of  Iowa.  .  .  . 
GRANT  P.  MAIER  writes  that  he  is  still  a 
senior  analytical  engineer  with  Pratt  & 
Whitney,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  His  wife, 
Beverly,  teaches  first  grade  in  Glastonbury 
where  the  Maiers  have  purchased  a  new 
colonial  home.  .  .  .  RAYMOND  G.  O'CON- 
NELL,  Jr.  is  manufacturing  engineer  at 
Hewlett-Packard,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Cur- 
rently EDWARD  PERO  serves  as  a  senior 
design  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft, 

East  Hartford,  Conn ROBERT  E.  SHAW 

is  a   manufacturing  engineer  at  Cryogenic 

Technology,  Inc.,  Waltham  Mass DAVID 

H.  STONE  is  a  plastics  processing  engineer 
at  Rohm  &  Haas  Plastics  Engineering  Lab., 
Bristol,  Pa.  .  .  .  ROBERT  D.  WILSON  works 
as  a  materials  engineer  in  the  area  of  casting 
development  technology  at  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 


1967 


ALLAN  T.  BU ROS,  Jr.  is  a  reliability  engineer 
for  Sanders  Associates,  South  Nashua,  N.H. 
...  Dr.  WILLIAM  E.  COBB,  who  received 
his  MD  from  the  University  of  Rochester,  is 
now  on  active  duty  with  the  U.S.  Navy  on 
the  USS  Francis  Marion  out  of  Norfolk,  Va. 
JOHN  R.  DAUGHERTY  has  been  em- 
ployed as  a  consultant  by  Barton  &  Asso- 
ciates, Santa  Monica,  Calif.  .  .  .  JOHN  F. 
GARBARINO  was  recently  appointed  office 
manager  of  the  Olde  Mistick  Village  Branch 
of  the  Union  Trust  Company  in  the  Mystic- 
Stonington  area  of  Connecticut.  He  has 
been  with  Union  Trust  since  1971  and  was 
assistant  manager  of  the  bank's  Old  Say- 
brook  Office  prior  to  his  latest  promotion 


RICHARD  M.  GUTKOWSKI  has  assumed 
an  assistant  professorship  in  the  Department 
of  Civil  Engineering  at  Colorado  State  Uni- 
versity in  Fort  Collins.  .  .  .  GUNNAR  J. 
STALEMARK    is    a    sales   engineer   at   the 

Foxboro  Co.,Tonawanda,  N.Y HERMAN 

A.  WOJDYLAK,  Jr.  serves  as  a  captain  in  the 
U.S.  Air  Force  and  is  presently  stationed  at 
Offut  AFB,  Omaha,  Nebraska. 


1968 


Married:  ALBERT  J.  BOHLIN  to  Miss  Joan 
E.  Honan  on  September  8,  1973  in  New- 
town, Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a  medical 
secretary.  The  bridegroom  is  an  executive 
with  the  Cape  Cod  Paper  Company,  Dennis, 
Mass.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  B.  KERRISSEY,  Jr.  to 
Miss  Eleanor  M.  Bushey  on  September  9, 
1973  in  Hingham,  Massachusetts.  Mrs. 
Kerrissey  graduated  from  Burdett  College 
and  is  employed  by  C.I.  Designs  in  Medford. 
.  .  LOUIS  H.  STRONG  to  Miss  Rita  K. 
Michel  on  August  4  in  Toledo,  Ohio.  Mrs. 
Strong,  a  realtor,  attended  the  University  of 
Toledo.  The  groom  is  a  biophysicist  and  a 
doctoral  candidate  at  the  University  of 
Michigan. 

RICHARD  L.  DUBSKY  is  at  Woodberry 
Forest  School,  Woodberry  Forest,  Va.  .  .  . 
ERIC  K.  DURLING  works  as  assistant  engi- 
neer for  the  Town  of  Acton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  B.  GILLIES,  associate  professor  of 
electronics  at  Quinsigamond  Community 
College,  Worcester,  is  exchanging  classes 
with  a  professor  at  Manchester  Polytechnic 
in  England  this  year.  Prof.  Gillies  was  one  of 
75  Americans  chosen  out  of  1 ,000  applicants 
for  the  exchange  professorships.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently GEOFFREY  L.  HARTUNG  is  a  corporate 
engineer  with  Uniroyal,  Inc.,  Middlebury, 
Conn.  .  .  .  BRUCE  G.  LOVELACE  has  been 
employed  as  a  research  engineer  at  Specialty 
Aromatics,  Dow  Chemical  Co.,  Midland, 
Mich.  .  .  .  JOHN  MacDOUGALL  works  at 
General  Electric  Company's  Knolls  Atomic 
Power  Labs  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ALAN 
D.  POTOFF  is  with  the  Dow  Chemical  Co., 
Midland,  Mich.  .  .  .  Currently  ROBERT  C. 
WIDEN  serves  as  a  structural  engineer  at 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 


1969 


Married:  ROBERT  J.  DASHNER  to  Miss 
Jane  B  Gersmeyer  on  August  25,  1973  in 
Havre,  Montana.  Mrs.  Dashner  graduated 
from  Montana  State  University.  The  groom 
is  a  computer  systems  analyst  for  the  Milli- 
pore  Corporation,  Burlington,  Mass.  . 
ANDREW  T.  PERREAULT  to  Miss  Katherine 
M.  Stapleton  in  Altamont,  New  York  on 
September  8,  1973.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Perreault 
are  employed  by  the  Knolls  Atomic  Power 
Laboratory,  where  the  bride  is  a  program 
planner  and  the  groom  is  an  engineer.  . 
STEVEN  L  ZIEVE  to  Miss  Frances  M. 
Wynings  in  Windsor  Locks,  Connecticut  on 
September  9,  1973.  The  bride  is  a  graduate 
of  Wittenberg  University.  The  bridegroom  is 
employed  by  Stanley  Works,  New  Britain, 
Connecticut. 


GEORGE  G.  DAVENPORT  is  a  construc- 
tion supervisor  at  the  United  Illuminating 
Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  MERRILL  F. 
SPROUL  serves  as  a  senior  heat  treat  engi- 
neer at  Corning  Glass  Works,  Corning,  N.Y. 


1970 


Married:  FREDERICK  A.  GOLEC,  Jr.  to  Miss 
Susan  M.  Robinson  on  September  1,  1973 
in  Tarrytown,  New  York.  The  newlyweds  are 
living  in  Seattle,  Wash,  where  both  are 
pursuing  their  doctorates  at  the  University  of 

Washington MICHAEL  S.  HORNER  and 

Miss  Marcia  A.  Wirsul  on  August  25,  1973 
in  Wethersfield,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Horner  is 
a  senior  at  the  University  of  Connecticut. 
Her  husband  is  employed  by  Pratt  and 
Whitney.  .  .  .  FRED  H.  TUTTLE  to  Miss 
Barbara  J.  Tettoni  on  August  4,  1973  in 
Mystic,  Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts  and 
Southern  Connecticut  State  College.  Mr. 
Tuttle  works  for  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton,  Conn. 

RICHARD    F.    ABRAMS    is    pilot    plant 
supervisor  at  Artisan  Industries,  Inc.,  Wal- 

tham.  Mass HENRY  R.  BLOCK  received 

his  MS  in  nuclear  engineering  from  Pennsyl- 
vania State  University  last  August.  .  .  . 
RASIKLAL  V.  CHOKSHI  is  a  stress  engineer 
at  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.,  Nuclear  Power 
Group,  in  Lynchburg,  Va.  .  .  .  PETER  J. 
DENONCOURT  has  been  appointed  chair- 
man of  the  science  department  and  will  also 
teach  drafting  and  electronics  at  the  New 
Independent  High  School  in  New  London, 
Conn.  .  .  .  RALPH  Di  IORIO  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  dial  equipment  supervisor  at  New 
England  Telephone  Co.,  Boston.  .  .  .  CARL  E. 
KRASNOR  and  his  wife,  Linda,  are  currently 
located  on  a  farm  1  20  miles  west  of  Toronto, 
Canada.  They  have  a  year-old  daughter, 
Rebecca.  .  .  .  LEE  C.  MALBON  is  a  mathe- 
matics   teacher    at    Maiden    (Mass.)    High 

School WILLIAM  M.  ROLYA  now  works 

for  the  Linde  Division  of  Union  Carbide 
Corporation  in  Tarrytown,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JUAN  F. 
WEISZ,  who  received  his  MS  in  physics 
from  the  University  of  Kansas  this  year,  is 
now  service  representative  for  IR  and  NMR 
spectrometers  at  Digilab,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


1971 


Married:  Ens.  MICHAEL  P.  ARMENIA  and 
Miss  Joanne  Ebbitt  last  summer  in  Newport, 
Rhode  Island.  The  groom  is  serving  aboard 
the  cruiser  Little  Rock,  flag  ship  of  the  Sixth 
Fleet.  The  Armenias  expect  to  live  in  Gaeta, 
Italy.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  A.  MATULEWICZ,  Jr. 
to  Miss  Patricia  Ann  Blake  on  August  11  in 
Hamden,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a  gradu- 
ate of  Western  Connecticut  State  College. 
.  .  .  CREGG  C.  McWEENEY  and  Miss  Linda 
Ann  DiLaurenzio  on  August  4,  1973  in 
Torrington,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  McWeeney 
teaches  in  Waterbury.  The  bridegroom  is 
co-owner  of  P  &  M  Industrial  Finishing  Co., 
Waterbury,  Conn. 

PAUL  BIENICK,  who  received  his  MSEE 
from  WPI  in  June,  has  begun  the  active 
duty  phase  of  the  ROTC  program.  .  .  .  PAUL 
J.  CLEARY  is  a  visiting  lecturer  in  the  English 
department  at  WPI.  .  .  .  GREGORY  S. 
DICKSON  is  a  production  development 
engineer  for  Dow  (Chemical)  ABC  Produc- 
tion, Midland,  Mich.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  B. 
ERICSON  works  at  Data  General  Corp., 
Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  PAUL  J.  EXNER  re- 
ceived his  MS  in  chemical  engineering  from 
the  University  of  Pennsylvania  last  May  and 
is  now  with  Day  &  Zimmerman  Environ- 
mental Engineers  in  Philadelphia.  ...  Dr. 
JAMES  A.  KAUFMAN  is  a  research  chemist 
for  Eastern  Research,  Dow  Chemical  Co.  .  .  . 
EDWARD  C.  LOWE  III  works  for  General 
Electric  Company  and  is  currently  located 
in  San  Jose,  Calif. 

RICHARD  P.  SAN  ANTONIO  is  now  in 
his  sophomore  year  at  Washington  Univer- 
sity School  of  Medicine,  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 
He  completed  his  MS  degree  at  MIT  in 
September  of  '72.  .  .  .  JOHN  R.  SHOTLIFF 
serves  as  associate  engineer  at  Electronic 
Associates,  Inc.,  West  Long  Branch,  N.J.  .  .  . 
FREDERICK  J.  SZUFNAROWSKI  is  a  photo- 
grammetric  engineer  employed  by  Col-East, 
Inc.,  at  Harriman  Airport.  He  obtains  surveys 
by  photography  and  makes  maps  from  aerial 
photographs.  He  and  his  wife,  who  have 
just  purchased  a  home  in  North  Adams, 
Mass.,  have  a  daughter,  Savitri,  2  14  and  a 
son,  Stephen,  eight  months.  .  .  .  DAVID  A. 
TRUE  is  now  chief  chemical  technologist  at 
New  England  Power  Co.,  Brayton  Point 
Station,  Somerset,  Mass.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  P. 
ZARRILLI  is  in  commercial  banking  at 
Manufacturers    Hanover    Trust    Co.,    New 


I  York  City.  He  received  his  MBA  this  year 
I  from  Wharton  School  of  Finance  at  the 
|  University  of  Pennsylvania. 

ELLEN     L.     BRUECK     (formerly     Sister 
I   Donald  M.  Brueck)  is  now  on  the  mathe- 
matics faculty  of  Wilbraham  and   Monson 
i  Academy  and  is  located  in  Monson,  Mass. 


1972 


Married:  JAMES  J.  ALTOONIAN  to  Miss 
Priscilla  M.  Piligian  on  August  18  in  Indian 
Orchard,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Altoonian 
graduated  from  Bridgewater  State  College. 
The  groom  is  working  for  his  MBA  at 
Wharton  School  of  Finance  at  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania.  .  .  .  JOHN  H.  BLAISDELL 
and  Miss  Cheryl  Ann  Coty  on  August  4, 
1973  in  Pittsfield,  Massachusetts.  The  bride, 
a  graduate  of  Anna  Maria  College,  is  a 
mathematics  teacher  in  Pittsfield.  The  bride- 
groom   is    with    Tectrol    Associates,    West 

Springfield,  Mass KENT  D.  BORNER  to 

Miss  Nancy  S.  Sparrow  in  Newington, 
Connecticut  on  June  18,  1973.  Mrs.  Borner 
is  a  graduate  of  Southern  Connecticut  State 
College.  The  groom  is  employed  by  Union 
Carbide  Co.,  Chicago,  III.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  G. 
HARKINS  to  Miss  Kristine  A.  Grundstrom 
on  September  8  in  Worcester.  The  bride 
attended  St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  Her  husband  is  a  computer  pro- 
grammer at  Norton  Company,  Worcester. 

Married:  THOMAS  C.  HUARD  to  Miss 
Susan  Dudek  on  July  22,  1973  in  Webster, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Huard  is  an  English 
teacher  at  Bay  Path  Vocational  Technical 
School,  Charlton.  The  bridegroom  teaches 
chemistry  at  Shepherd  Hill  School,  Dudley.... 
ROBERT  J.  LEDUC  and  Miss  Diana  Rucci 
on  August  25, 1973  in  New  Canaan,  Connect- 
icut. Mrs.  Leduc  is  a  graduate  of  Annhurst 
College.  Her  husband  is  with  Westinghouse 
Nuclear  Center,  Pittsburgh.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  M. 
SZLOSEK  and  Miss  Margaret  R.  Lombardi  on 
August  25  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island.  The 
brideteachesat  Perryville  Elementary  School, 
Perryville,  Md.  Mr.  Szlosek  works  for 
American  Cyanamid  in  Havre  de  Grace.  .  .  . 
PATRICK  E.  TAMBORRA  and  Miss  Christine 
M.  Alferi  on  August  18,  1973  in  Norwich, 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Tamborra  attended  West- 
ern Connecticut  College.  Her  husband  is 
studying  for  his  master's  at  WPI.  .  .  .  JOHN 
ZORABEDIAN,  Jr.  and  Miss  LESLEY  E. 
SMALL  on  June  9,  1973  in  Spencer, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  currently  a  staff 
engineer  for  New  York  Telephone  Co.  The 
groom  is  employed  by  the  Steam  Turbine 
Division  of  General  Electric  Company  in 
Schenectady,  New  York. 

MARK  G.  ANDREWS  works  as  produc- 
tion control  manager  at  C  &  M  Wire  Prod- 
ucts, Wauregan,  Conn.  .  .  .  MARK  DUPUIS 
won  the  discus  event  of  the  AAU's  Eastern 
Regionals  with  a  throw  of  1  59  feet  1 0  inches 
last  summer.  Earlier,  in  a  pre-meet  warm-up 
at  Bangor,  Me.,  he  threw  for  a  distance  of 
168  feet,  his  best  to  date.  Mark  is  a  member 
of  Proctor  and  Gamble's  management  train- 
ing program  in  Quincy,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  RAY- 
MOND M.  FISH  wrote  "A  Method  of  Coding 
Complex  Shapes  for  the  Blind  by  an  Auditory 
Display"  which  appeared  in  a  recent  issue 
of  the  Journal  of  the  Audio   Engineering 


i  amesbury 

fj  manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Society.  Dr.  Fish,  who  was  with  the  National 
Institutes  of  Health,  Bethesda,  Md.,  is  now 
attending  medical  school  at  the  University  of 
Chicago.  .  .  .  Airman  SCOTT  L  GRAHAM 
has  graduated  at  Chanute  AFB,  III.  from  the 
Air  Force  aircraft  maintenance  specialist 
course  conducted  by  the  Air  Training  Com- 
mand. He  is  being  assigned  to  Travis  AFB, 
Calif,  for  duty  with  a  unit  of  the  Military  Air- 
lift Command.  .  .  .  ANDREW  J.  LASKO  has 
been  named  assistant  engineer-test  at  the 
Connecticut  Light  and  Power  Co.,  Berlin, 
Conn.  He  joined  CL  &  P  in  1972  at  Mystic 
as  a  cadet  engineer. 

ANDREW  G.MAYSHAR  is  now  employed 
by  Aengus  Engineering  Co.,  Fayville,  Mass. 
.  .  .  DONALD  POLONIS,  who  recently  re- 
ceived his  master's  degree  from  the  Institute 
of  Administration  and  Management  at  Union 
College,  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  has  accepted  a 
position  as  industrial  engineer  systems 
specialist  with  Timex  Industries,  Millbury, 
Conn.  .  .  .  DAVID  RIEDEL  has  been  given  a 
teaching  assistantship  scholarship  in  the 
computer  science  department  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut  where  he  is  a  graduate 
student.  .  .  .  RAYMOND  P.  ROBERGE  has 
received  his  master's  in  chemical  engineering 
from  the  University  of  Michigan  and  is  now 
a  research  engineer  at  Union  Carbide  Corp., 


Tarrytown,  N.Y.  .  .  .  BRIAN  J.  SAVILONIS  is 
studying  for  his  doctorate  at  New  York 
University. 


1973 


Married:  ROYCE  E.  BRAINARD  to  Miss 
Susan  L.  Brown  on  August  11,  1973  in 
Springfield,  Vermont.  Mrs.  Brainard  gradu- 
ated from  Becker.  Her  husband  is  employed 
by  Harper  Buffing  Machines  in  East  Hart- 
ford, Conn.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  C.  CARTON  and 
Miss  Katherine  A.  Home  on  July  21,  1973 
in  Everett,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  Northeastern  University  College 
of  Education  and  is  a  computer  scheduler 
for  Paul  Revere  Insurance  Co.  Mr.  Carton 
works  for  Teradyne  of  Boston.  .  .  .  DANIEL 
L.  EIDE  and  Miss  Ethel  C.  Mastin  on  Sep- 
tember 1  5,  1  973  in  Ridgewood,  New  Jersey. 
Mrs.  Eide,  a  medical  secretary,  graduated 
from  Colby  College,  New  London,  N.H.  Her 
husband  is  a  process  engineer  at  Gordon 
Chemicals,  Inc.  in  Worcester.  .  .  .  PAUL  K. 
ERICSON  and  Miss  Gail  P.  Waitt  on  August 
11,  1973  in  Rochester,  New  Hampshire. 
Mrs.  Ericson  graduated  from  Clark  Univer- 
sity. The  groom  is  with  Van  Zelm,  Heywood, 
and  Shadford,  West  Hartford,  Conn. 


21 


Married:  STEVEN  E.  GALLANT  to  Miss 
Karen  Ann  Casavant  on  June  23  in  Gardner, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride,  who  is  a  graduate 
of  Worcester  Junior  College,  is  a  senior 
computist  with  Pratt  and  Whitney,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  Her  husband  is  with  Hamil- 
ton-Standard, Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  A.  KALINOWSKI  and  Miss  Patricia 
A.  Recko  in  Worcester  on  August  25,  1973. 
The  bride,  a  Becker  graduate,  is  a  secretary 
at  the  same  college.  .  .  .  FRANK  A.  KANIA 
and  Miss  Denise  A.  Riopel  on  August  25  in 
Leicester,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Riopel  is  a 
data  processor  at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worces- 
ter. Her  husband  is  employed  by  Rotmans 
Warehouse  &  Showrooms.  .  .  .  RONALD  J. 
LAK  to  Miss  Cynthia  J.  Tamashunas  on 
August  25,  1 973  in  Hudson,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  was  employed  by  New  England 
Tape  Co.  Mr.  Lak  is  with  Uniroyal  Chemical 
Co.  in  Connecticut. 

Married:  BARRY  S.  MENDELOFF  to  Miss 
Diane  C.  Kelley  of  Worcester  last  summer. 
The  bride  attended  Salter  Secretarial  School. 
Her  husband  is  with  the  Hamilton  Standard 
Division  of  United  Aircraft,  Windsor  Locks, 
Conn.  .  .  .  MARK  R.  OLESON  and  Miss 
Daralee  Ann  Nutting  on  July  28  in  Boston. 
Mrs.  Oleson  is  a  graduate  of  Brockton 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  The  bridegroom 
is  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  JOHN 
D.  PERREAULT  and  Miss  Joyce  Bartlett  on 
July  1,  1973  in  Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  teaches  at  Beal  School,  Shrews- 
bury. Her  husband  works  for  the  Worcester 
Department  of  Public  Works.  .  .  .  JAMES  A. 
RISOTTI  to  Miss  Deborah  J.  Carroll  on 
September  1  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Risotti  is  a 
graduate  nurse.  The  bridegroom  is  with 
General  Electric  Co.,  Erie,  Pa. 

Married:  ROBERT  C.  SYKES  and  Miss 
Dorothy  M.  Alger  in  Worcester  on  August 
10,  1973.  The  bride  was  a  staff  nurse  at  the 
Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  Her 
husband  is  with  Dupont  Co.,  Bridgeport, 
Conn. . .  .  ANGELO  P.  TSEFREKAS  and  Miss 
Iphegenia  Trempelas  on  July  1,  1973  in 
Watertown,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  an 
instructor  of  home  economics  in  the  Bedford 
school  system.  The  groom  is  a  member  of  the 
administration  staff  of  Framingham  Union 
Hospital.  .  .  .  HARVEY  A.  VIGNEAULT  to 
Miss  Deborah  Anne  Grocut  on  August  18, 
1973  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Vigneault  was  em- 
ployed at  Paul  Revere  Life  Insurance  Co. 
The  bridegroom  is  with  Combustion  Engi- 
neering, Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  ALAN  E. 
WARENDA  and  Miss  Patricia  A.  Pannese  on 
August  5,  1973  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Warenda 
graduated  from  Quinsigamond  Community 
College.  Her  husband  is  employed  by  New 
Departure  Hyatt,  Bristol,  Conn. 

SURESH  K.  AMIN  is  a  quality  control 
engineer  for  Okonite  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
STEVEN  W.  BRENNAN  is  at  the  Naval 
Ordnance  Station  in  Indian  Head,  Md.  .  .  . 
CHRISTOPHER  A.  BRODERS  has  accepted 
employment  with  Texas  Instruments.  .  .  . 
PAUL  B  CONTI  has  joined  the  engineering 
department  at  Cranston  Print  Works  Co., 
Webster,  Mass.  .  .  .  KEVIN  J.  CROSSEN  is 
attending  graduate  school  at  the  University 
of  Rhode  Island.  .  MICHAEL  E.  DeCOL- 
LIBUS  works  as  a  manufacturer's  engineer 
with  Torrington  Bearing  Co.,  Torrington, 
Conn. .  .  MICHAEL  GREENBAUM  has  been 
accepted  at  Rutgers  University  Law  School 


.  .  .  GEORGE  J.  GRUNBECK  is  a  field  engi- 
neer with  General  Electric's  Installation  and 
Service  Engineering  Department,  Schenec- 
tady, N.Y. . . .  DAVID  E.  HAFLICH  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Stanford  University,  Stanford, 

Calif HARRY  A.  KASPARIAN  works  for 

Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Boston DAVID  C.  KAY 

works  for  General  Electric  Company. 

RICHARD  L.  KIRK  is  a  physicist  for 
Sanders  Associates,  Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  J.  KOWALESKI  has  joined 
Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co.  .  .  . 
FREDERICK  C.  LEVITSKY  has  been  em- 
ployed by  General  Dynamics,  Electric  Boat 
Division.  .  .  .  PAUL  A.  LEWIS  is  a  field  engi- 
neer at  Factory  Insurance  Association, 
Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  MACKENZIE 
serves  as  an  environmental  engineer  in  the 
Design  Services  Division  at  the  New  Hamp- 
shire Highway  Department,  Concord,  N.H. 
.  .  .  PHILIP  C.  MAZZOLA  is  a  graduate  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  Kentucky. . . .  DAVID 
E.  MOOMAW  is  an  engineer-in-training  at 
Fisher-Price  Toy  Co.,  East  Aurora,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  D.  NORLIN  works  as  a  research 
assistant  in  the  Dept.  of  Nutrition,  Harvard 
School  of  Public  Health,  Boston.  .  .  .  NAZIR 
A.  QURESHI  is  with  Sargent  &  Lundy 
Engineers,  Chicago. 

DOROTHY  L.  O'KEEFE  has  been  awarded 
a  research  assistantship  at  WPI  where  she 
is  studying  for  her  master's  degree.  .  .  .  PAUL 
J.  PARULIS  is  a  research  and  development 
engineer  at  Richmond  Screw  Anchor  Co., 
Bronx,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PETER  R.  PASTORE  works 
for  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  a  New  York  based  engi- 
neering firm  which  specializes  in  community 
planning.  .  .  .  ELIZABETH  POULIN  is  em- 
ployed by  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  . 
PETER  B.  RUNYON  has  been  employed  as 
a  field  engineer  with  General  Electric's  In- 
stallation and  Service  Engineering  Depart- 
ment in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PETER  A. 
SHAW  is  in  technical  service,  marketing,  in 
the  Elastomers  Department,  Dupont,  Wil- 
mington, Delaware.  .  .  .  NORMAN  D. 
STALLER,  now  a  WPI  graduate  student, 
placed  fourth  in  a  nationwide  engineering 
student  design  contest  sponsored  by  Lincoln 
Arc  Welding  Foundation  of  Cleveland.  As  a 
senior  he  entered  his  design  of  an  automatic 
feeding  device  for  an  impactor  machine. 
For  his  invention  he  will  receive  a  $250 
prize  with  WPI  receiving  a  $300  grant. 


JOHN  F.  STASAITIS  is  with  Riley  Stoker, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  J.  STASZOWSKI 
works  for  the  Public  Service  of  New  Hamp- 
shire. .  .  .  ROBERT  N.  TORBIN  has  joined 
Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston.  .  .  .  JAMES  A. 
VIVEIROS  has  been  employed  by  Cottrell 
Company,  Westerly,  R.I.  .  .  .  PAUL  M. 
WATSON  is  attending  graduate  school  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston.  .  .  .  JOHN 
P.  WOLKONOWICZ  works  for  the  electrical 
division  of  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 


Completed 
Careers 


LYNN  I.  SCHOONOVER,  86,  former  act- 
ing head  of  the  economics,  government  and 
business  department  at  WPI,  died  August 
6,  1973  in  Worcester. 

A  native  of  River  Falls,  Wis.,  he  later 
studied  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin  where 
he  graduated  in  1912.  Before  coming  to 
Worcester  he  taught  in  the  public  schools  of 
Sioux  City,  Iowa;  at  the  University  of  Iowa 
School  of  Business;  and  at  Harvard  School 
of  Business  Administration.  Professor 
Schoonover  served  at  WPI  from  1947  until 
1963.  He  then  became  head  of  the  finance 
department  at  Northeastern  University  and 
a  lecturer  at  Becker  Junior  College. 

He  was  the  husband  of  Mrs.  Bonnie- 
Blanche  Schoonover,  librarian  emeritus  at 
WPI. 


ARTEMUS   O.  WILKINS,   '09  died  Sep- 
i  tember  3,  1 973  at  the  age  of  88  in  Bridgton, 
Maine  following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Wardsboro,  Vt.  After 
studying  at  WPI  he  became  a  machinist, 
owning  and  operating  the  Wilkins  Machine 
Shop  in  Brattleboro,  Vt.;  Cambridge,  Mass.; 
and  Everett,  Mass.  For  a  number  of  years 
he  worked  at  Howell  Laboratories  from 
1   which  he  retired  at  the  age  of  83. 

During  World  War  II  he  worked  at  Harvard 
University  helping  to  develop  a  counter- 
radar  system  known  as  the  "Window 
Project." 

For  over  25  years  he  had  served  as  select- 
man and  a  member  of  the  Planning  Board 
and  Chamber  of  Commerce  in  Bridgton. 
Twice  he  was  national  president  of  the 
Railroad  Enthusiasts  of  America. 

WILLIAM  R.  BELL,  '10,  the  retired  vice 
president  and  principal  officer  of  New 
England  Power  Co.,  passed  away  on  August 
15,  1973  in  Holyoke,  Massachusetts.  He 
was  85. 

He  was  born  in  East  Longmeadow  in 
1888  and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1910.  Early  in  his  career  he 
was  a  testman  for  General  Electric  Co.  For 
42  years  he  was  associated  with  the  New 
England  Electric  System  (New  England 
Power  Co.)  where  he  was  named  principal 
officer  in  1952. 

Mr.  Bell  was  a  former  Alumni  Council 
representative  from  the  Boston  chapter.  He 
belonged  to  AIEE,  NELA,  and  the  Boston 
Society  of  Engineers. 

DANIEL  H.  REAMY,  '10  passed  away 
on  September  20,  1973  in  Fort  Myers, 
Florida. 

A  native  of  West  Medford,  Mass.,  he 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  in  1910.  From  1926  until  1949  he 
was  a  machine  shop  instructor  and  depart- 
ment head  at  Whittier  Union  High  School, 
Whittier,  Calif.  He  also  taught  at  a  number 
of  other  high  schools  and  held  engineering 
positions  with  General  Electric  Company 
and  Douglas  Aircraft  Co.  For  several  years 
he  was  a  machine  shop  instructor  at 
Kamehameha  School  for  Boys,  Honolulu. 
Later  he  retired  to  Fort  Myers. 

Mr.  Reamy  belonged  to  the  National  Edu- 
cation   Association,    American    Vocational 
•   Association,  California  Industrial  Education 
Association,    and    the    California    Teachers 
Association. 

IRVING  L.  STOWE,  '14  of  West  Mill- 
bury,  Massachusetts  passed  away  on  August 
2,  1973. 

He  was  born  in  West  Millbury  on  Decem- 
ber 26, 1  892.  After  studying  civil  engineering 
at  WPI,  he  worked  for  three  years  at  Graton 
&  Knight  Mfg.  Co.,  Worcester.  Later  he 
became  a  self-employed  farmer. 

Mr.    Stowe    belonged    to    Sigma    Alpha 
.    Epsilon  Fraternity. 

HENRY  C.  WHITLOCK,  '14,  an  engineer 
for  the  City  of  Waterbury,  Connecticut  for  52 
;    years,   died    in    Waterbury   on    August   22, 
1973.  He  was  80. 

A  native  of  Naugatuck,  Conn.,  he  later 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer.  He 


started  working  for  the  City  of  Waterbury  in 
1915.  In  1947  he  was  appointed  chief 
engineer.  It  was  under  his  direction  that 
most  of  the  city's  water  mains,  sewer  lines, 
and  roads  were  constructed.  He  retired  in 
1971,  long  after  the  usual  mandatory 
retirement  age,  because  the  city  felt  that  his 
services  were  too  valuable  to  lose. 

Mr.  Whitlock  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon,  formerly  Delta  Tau. 

CAPT.     ROBERT     E.     HANCOCK,     '15 

(USN,  ret.)  died  July  31  in  Jacksonville, 
Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Erving,  Massachusetts  on 
October  28,  1889  and  received  his  BS  in 
electrical  engineering  from  WPI.  In  1915  he 
joined  what  is  now  known  as  Northeast 
Utilities  Co.  where  he  worked  in  the  design 
and  construction  of  power  plants  and 
transmission  lines. 

During  World  War  I  he  was  commissioned 
an  officer  in  the  regular  Navy  after  having 
been  an  officer  in  the  Civil  Engineer  Corps 
of.  the  U.S.  Naval  Reserves.  In  1942  he 
attained  the  rank  of  Captain.  During  World 
War  II  he  was  Officer-in-Charge  of  the 
multi-million-dollar  expansion  of  the  New 
York  Naval  Air  Station  (Floyd  Bennett)  on 
Long  Island,  N.Y.  and  the  Casco  Bay  Area 
at  Portland,  Me.  He  was  also  Public  Works 
Officer  at  the  Navy  Ship  Yard  at  Portsmouth, 
Va.  Prior  to  his  retirement  in  1 947  he  headed 
the  Power  Plant  &  Distribution  Division  of 
the  Bureau  of  Yards  and  Docks,  Navy  Dept., 
Washington,  D.C. 

Capt.  Hancock  belonged  to  the  Navy 
Civil  Engineering  Association,  Alpha  Tau 
Omega,  and  Skull.  He  was  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  Massachusetts  and 
Maine. 


RICHARD  L.  OLSON,  '19,  chairman  of 
the  board  and  former  president  of  Olson 
Manufacturing  Co.,  Holden,  Massachusetts, 
died  August  1  9  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  77. 
A  Worcester  native,  he  studied  mechan- 
ical engineering  at  WPI.  Following  service 
with  the  Army  Air  Corps  in  World  War  I, 
he  was  named  assistant  treasurer  at  Olson 
(screw  machine)  and  later  assistant  to  his 
brother,  Robert,  who  was  president  and 
founder  of  the  company.  He  became  presi- 
dent in  1948  and  chairman  of  the  board  in 
1962. 


Mr.  Olson  was  a  director  of  Guaranty 
Bank  &  Trust  Co.,  Worcester,  and  a  past 
director  of  the  Worcester  County  Purchas- 
ing Agency.  He  belonged  to  the  Worcester 
Mechanics  Association. 


CARL  G.  ENGLUND,  '20  died  August  8, 
1973  in  Jacksonville,  Florida  after  a  lengthy 
illness.  He  was  75. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  graduated 
from  WPI  as  a  civil  engineer.  During  his 
career  he  was  associated  with  the  U.S. 
Bureau  of  Public  Roads;  Potter  &  Shackel- 
ford, Inc.,  Greenville,  S.C.;  and  Daniel  Con- 
struction Co.  of  Florida  in  Jacksonville 
where  he  served  as  vice  president  and  later, 
after  semi-retirement,  as  a  consultant. 

Mr.  Englund  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta 
Pi.  He  was  the  brother  of  Theodore  J. 
Englund,  '28. 

ALEXANDER  L.  WILSON,  '21  passed 
away  September  8,  1973  in  Illinois. 

He  was  born  on  December  4,  1898  in 
Worcester,  and  later  studied  at  WPI  where 
he  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi  Fraternity.  In 
1 924  he  received  his  BSCE  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Illinois.  From  graduation  until  his 
retirement  in  1964  he  had  worked  in  many 
phases  of  Mississippi  Valley  Structural  Steel 
Co.  With  G.  A.  Caldwell  he  was  co-developer 
of  the  first  movable  welder  which  was  used 
by  MVSS  in  construction  of  the  Sky  Ride  at 
the  Chicago  World's  Fair  commemorating 
"A  Century  of  Progress"  in  1933. 

ROBERT  W.  CUSHMAN,  '22  died  on 
September  1 7,  1  973  in  Pennsylvania  follow- 
ing heart  surgery. 

He  was  born  at  Brattleboro,  Vt.  on  June 
22,  1901  and  graduated  from  WPI  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  During  his  career  he 
was  associated  with  the  Charles  H.  Tenney 
Co.,  Boston,  and  Central  Hudson  Gas  and 
Electric  Co.,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.,  where  he 
worked  until  May  1945  when  he  went  to 
Radio  Research  Laboratory  at  Harvard  Uni- 
versity as  a  special  research  associate.  At 
the  end  of  the  war  he  became  an  employee 
of  the  U.S.  Navy  and  was  stationed  at  the 
Naval  Air  Development  Center  at  Johns- 
ville.  Pa.  as  an  electronic  scientist. 

In  1966  he  retired  and  was  appointed 
zoning  officer  and  building  inspector  for  the 
Borough  of  Newton,  Pa.  He  was  a  member 
of  IEEE. 


JAMES  A.  HILLMAN,  '24  of  Grand  Is- 
land, New  York  died  on  July  3,  1973. 

He  was  born  in  New  Bedford,  Mass.  After 
graduating  from  WPI  as  a  chemist  in  1924 
he  joined  Allied  Chemical  where  he  served 
as  a  supervisor  for  the  National  Aniline 
Division  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  for  many  years. 

Mr.  Hillman  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Western  New  York  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association.  He  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society. 


DANIEL  S.  HORGAN,  '30,  retired  chief 
engineer  at  the  Massachusetts  Department 
of  Public  Works,  died  in  Worcester  on 
August  10,  1973.  He  was  64. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  later  studied 
civil  engineering  at  WPI.  He  started  as  an 
engineering  aide  with  the  DPW  in  1929. 
During  his  43  years  of  service  he  worked  in 
all  of  the  divisions  of  the  department — 
survey,  construction,  maintenance — and  was 
named  chief  engineer  in  1964.  He  origi- 
nated the  idea  for  the  southeast  connector 
between  the  Worcester  Expressway  and  the 
Massachusetts  Turnpike  and  had  a  hand  in 
the  construction  of  Route  9  and  Route  20. 
In  1962  he  was  named  chief  waterways 
engineer,  the  position  he  held  prior  to  his 
final  promotion  to  DPW  head.  He  retired 
earlier  this  year. 

Mr.  Horgan  was  a  former  director  of  the 
Massachusetts  Society  of  State  Engineers, 
the  Massachusetts  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers,  American  Roadbuilders  Associa- 
tion, Massachusetts  Safety  Council,  and  the 
National  Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

In  1951  he  was  awarded  the  Silver 
Beaver  by  the  Boy  Scouts,  the  highest  honor 
scouting  can  bestow.  In  1972  he  was  given 
the  Man  of  the  Year  Award  by  the  Auburn 
(Mass.)  Chamber  of  Commerce. 


STATEMENT  OF   OWNERSHIP, 
MANAGEMENT  AND   CIRCULATION 

(Act  of  August  1  2,  1  970:  Section  3685, 
Title  39,  United  States  Code) 

1.  Title  of  publication.  WPI  JOURNAL.  2.  Date  of 
filing.  September  28,  1973.  3.  Frequency  of  issue.  Six 
times  per  year  ( August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  April).  4.  Location  of  known  office  of  publi- 
cation (Street,  city,  county,  state,  zip  code).  Institute 
Road,  Worcester,  Worcester  County,  Massachusetts 
01609.  5.  Location  of  the  headquarters  or  general 
business  offices  of  the  publishers  (Not  printers).  Insti- 
tute Road,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01  609.  6.  Names 
and  addresses  of  publisher,  editor,  and  managing 
editor.  Publisher  (Name  and  address).  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 
Editor  (Name  and  address).  H.  Russell  Kay,  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Mass.  01  609.  Manag- 
ing Editor  (Name  and  address).  None.  7.  Owner  (If 
owned  by  a  corporation,  its  name  and  address  must  be 
stated  and  also  immediately  thereunder  the  names  and 
addresses  of  stockholders  owning  or  holding  1  percent 
or  more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a 
corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the  individual 
owners  must  be  given.  If  owned  by  a  partnership  or 
other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address,  as 
well  as  that  of  each  individual  must  be  given.)  Worces- 
ter Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts 
01609.  8.  Known  bondholders,  mortgagees,  and  other 
security  holders  owning  or  holding  1  percent  or  more 
of  total  amount  of  bonds,  mortgages  or  other  securities 
(If  there  are  none,  so  state).  None.  9.  For  completion 
by  nonprofit  organizations  authorized  to  mail  at  special 
rates  (Section  132.122,  Postal  Manual).  The  purpose, 
function,  and  nonprofit  status  of  this  organization  and 
the  exempt  status  for  Federal  income  tax  purposes 
have  not  changed  during  preceding  12  months.  (If 
changed,  publisher  must  submit  explanation  of  change 
with  this  statement  )  10.  Extent  and  nature  of  circula- 
tion. 


Actual  Number 
Average  No.         of  Copies 
Copies  Each  of  Single 

Issue  during    Issue  Published 


Preceding 

Nearest  to 

12  Months 

Filing  Date 

A. 

Total  no.  copies 
printed  (Netpress 

run). 

15,535 

17,700 

B. 

Paid  circulation. 
1 .  Sales  through 
dealers  and 
carriers,  street 
vendors  and 

counter  sales. 

0 

0 

2.  Mail  subscriptions 

0 

0 

C. 

Totalpaidcirculation. 

0 

0 

D. 

Free  distribution  by 
mail,  carrier  or 
other  means. 
1 .  Samples, 
complimentary,  and 

other  free  copies. 

14,888 

14,753 

2.  Copies  distributed 

to  news  agents,  but 

not  sold. 

0 

0 

E. 

Total  distribution 

(Sum  of  C  and  D). 

14,888 

14,753 

F 

Office  use,  left-over, 
unaccounted,  spoiled 

after  printing. 

647 

2,947 

G. 

Total  (Sum  of  E  & 
F — should  equal 
'net  press  run 

shown  in  A). 

15,535 

17,700 

I  certify  that  the  statements  made  by  me  above  are 
correct  and  complete. 

H.  Russell  Kay,  Editor 


Forging  For  the 
new  generation  of 
turbine  enginee 


Wyman  Gordon's  mechanical/metallurgical  skills 
have  allowed  designers  and  fabricators  to  stretch 
the  level  of  turbine  technology— on  land,  on  the  sea 
and  in  the  air. 

Wyman  Gordon  will  be  producing  the  super- 
strength  and  supersize  forgings  needed  as  land- 
based  gas  turbines  take  the  next  giant  step  into 
their  "new  generation." 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS 


r^ 


t/l*$&Kd 


9 


feedback 


Letters  to  the  editor  are  welcome.  All  points 
of  view  can  find  a  forum  in  this  section, 
and  we  encourage  the  exchange  of  ideas 
and  opinions  here.  For  reasons  of  space, 
variety,  timeliness,  and  interest  to  other 
readers,  we  may  not  publish  all  letters  re- 
ceived and  will  occasionally  excerpt  por- 
tions of  letters,  but  those  that  do  appear 
here  are  an  accurate  reflection  of  our  mail. 


I  am  forced  to  comment  on  the  "WPI 
Journal."  From  a  sensible  publication  it 
has  become  "cutesy". 

The  "Journal"  appears  to  have  been 
assembled,  like  the  giraffe,  by  a  committee 
— the  freshman  printing  class  at  a  slum 
trade  school.  Instead  of  dealing  in  vague 
opinions,  let's  examine  a  few  facts. 

In  the  past  several  years,  publication  has 
been  advertised  as  four,  five,  or  six  times 
per  year.  Delivery  is  erratic.  Some  issues 
were  either  not  printed  or  not  delivered. 
The  mailing  label  on  the  December,  1972, 
issue  arrived  detached  because  of  improper 
adhesive.  I  have  an  issue  labeled  Vol.  74, 
Fall,  with  three  small  cover  photos  on  a 
blue-line  design  on  a  white  background 
(delivered  December  18,  1969).  I  have 
another  issue  labeled  Vol.  74,  Fall  1970, 
with  a  U.S.  map  on  an  orange  cover 
(delivered  January  7,  1 971 ). 

Volume  76-6,  page  24:  "The  second 
half  of  the  'Where  are  you?'  list  will  be  run 
in  the  August  issue."  Of  what  year?  Volume 
76-4,  back  cover:  Showing  the  British  flag 
above  the  American  flag  is  not  only  bad 
taste  but  may  be  illegal. 

The  cover  of  the  February,  1972,  issue 
was  printed  on  recycled  paper.  Well, 
la-de-dal  If  that  and  subsequent  issues  had 
eliminated  the  unused  white  space 
throughout,  we  could  have  saved  a  couple 
of  forests.  The  ultimate  stupidity  was  the 
design  of  the  October,  1973,  cover — lots 
and  lots  of  wonderful  white  space  laid  out 
so  that  the  address  label  could  be  pasted 
over  the  photo  caption. 


And  in  the  October,  1973,  editorial  you 
tell  us  of  a  special  citation?  Are  you  sure  it 
wasn't  the  booby  prize? 

Picky,  picky,  picky!  Anyone  who  makes 
that  remark  will  reveal  that  he  knows 
nothing  of  the  havoc  that  is  created  in  the 
industrial  world  by  simple  mistakes,  6"  for 
6',  for  example.  You  need  six-foot  diameter 
pipe  for  hydro  station  penstocks,  and  you 
get  six-inch  pipe.  You  want  supports  every 
six  inches,  and  the  welder  installs  them  six 
feet  apart.  A  toaster  manufacturer  needs 
six-foot  power  cords  to  meet  the  Christmas 
rush  and  gets  100,000  cords  six  inches 
long.  Remember,  every  mistake  you  make 
is  multiplied  15,000  times. 

"First-class  men  hire  first-class  men; 
second-class  men  hire  third-class  men." 
What  37th-class  boob  hired  the  75th-class 
idiot  who  puts  the  "Journal"  together? 
(And  some  little  typist  has  just  run  into  the 
ladies'  restroom,  sobbing,  "I  have  only  one 
pair  of  hands!") 

I  have  the  impression  that  the  "Journal" 
is  a  reflection  of  WPI  in  general.  They  seem 
to  be  going  down  the  drain  together.  Since 
about  1  968  I  have  not  had  the  slightest 
interest  in  WPI.  The  reputable  Institute  had 
degenerated  beyond  recall.  Within  a  week 
after  my  graduation  I  had  discovered  that 
the  WPI  way  was  archaic  and  not  the 
modern,  commercial  way — the  result  of 
staff  negative  inbreeding.  By  1970,  WPI 
was  the  case  of  the  deaf,  dumb,  halt,  blind, 
and  idiotic  leading  the  innocent.  The 
institute  propaganda  has  so  informed  me — 
constantly. 

The  Institute  has  financial  difficulties? 
The  appeals  for  funds  could  be  compared 
to  Mr.  Rockefeller  riding  up  in  his  Cadillac 
and  sending  his  chauffeur  to  my  door, 
begging  alms.  WPI  is  supposed  to  be 
training  people  and  developing  their 
common  sense  so  that  they  can  use 
materials  and  techniques  effectively  and 
economically.  "Doctor,  cure  thyself!" 
However,  the  years  have  shown  (unless 
the  literature  lies)  that  WPI  cannot  function 
and  apply  its  assets  to  best  advantage. 
Prioritiesl 

If  the  nation  as  a  whole  is  in  trouble,  a 
full  share  of  the  blame  can  be  laid  on  the 
doorstep  of  Boynton  Hall. 

My  greatly-reduced  annual  contributions 
have  been  donations  to  charity — mainly  to 
pay  for  the  subscription  to  the  "Journal". 
I  enjoy  reading  the  obituaries.  (And  I 


notice  that  white-space  requirements  now 
necessitate  the  omission  of  survivors.) 

Please  don't  waste  your  time  and  postage 
on  a  reply  to  me;  your  efforts,  it  is  evident, 
are  sorely  needed  elsewhere.  And  don't 
waste  postage  sending  me  a  receipt.  For 
many  decades  my  cancelled  checks  have 
served  adequately  as  receipts.  If  WPI  had 
sufficient  business  acumen  within  its  ranks, 
it  would  not  have  to  send  forth  its 
prominent  alumni  to  beg.  WPI  is  soliciting 
funds  from  me.  I'm  not  seeking  handouts 
from  WPI.  Think  about  that. 

You  say  that  you  don't  print  negative 
letters  because  you  get  none.  Now  you 
have  one.  Fill  up  some  of  that  idle  white 
space.  (If  you're  not  going  to  use  the 
white  space,  send  it  to  the  bathroom 
tissue  factories.  Rumor  says  they  need  it 
badly.)  (It  would  be  fitting  if  the  present 
"Journal"  were  printed  on  bathroom 
tissue.) 

Joseph  W.  Blaine  '42 
Newport,  R.I. 


Vol.  77,  No.JB  6 


February  1 974 


Feedback 


2        The  Journal  Readership  Survey:  What  You  Had  to  Say 

The  editor  analyzes  the  returns  from  the  questionnaire  in  the 
August  issue. 

/        Skis:  They  Ain't  Barrel  Staves  Anymore 

by  Bryan  A.  Kashiwa,  '73 

The  former  star  of  the  WPI  Ski  Club  offers  some  insight  into  just 

what  makes  a  ski  work. 

iZ.        Snow  and  Ice 

by  Russell  Kay 

A  photographic  guessing  game. 

lO        Your  Class  and  Others 

22        Where  Are  You? 

The  second  half  of  our  "missing  alumni"  list — can  you  help  us? 


30        Completed  Careers 


Front  cover:  A  winter  detail  at  WPI — reproduced  in  more  normal 
form  on  page  17. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
Richard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
Editor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytecnnic  Institute.  Copyright©  1973 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  Presidents:  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman; 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


The  Journal  Readership  Survey 


What  You  Had  To  Say 


by  Russell  Kay 


RESPONSES  to  the  readership  questionnaire  in  the  August 
Journal  indicate  that,  by  and  large,  alumni  seem  to  like 
the  direction  the  Journal  has  taken  over  the  past  few  years  as 
compared  with  earlier  issues.  Journal  readers  want  more  news 
of  WPI  and  the  campus,  of  job  and  career  and  professional 
activity  and  possibilities,  and  of  the  application  of  technologi- 
cal skills  in  solving  pressing  current  problems. 

At  the  same  time  I  report  these  conclusions,  I  would  enter 
one  caveat.  When  the  questionnaire  was  published,  the 
Publications  Committee  was  hoping  for  a  10  to  20%  response. 
As  an  example,  a  recent  survey  by  Cornell  University's 
Engineering  Quarterly  generated  25%  responses.  But  it  didn't 
happen  here.  Of  the  10,588  living  WPI  alumni,  only  some  400 
returned  the  questionnaire.  The  information  to  be  presented 
below  is  based  on  the  tabulation  of  380  responses  —  3.6%.  The 
respondents  closely  parallel  the  total  alumni  population  in 
terms  of  age  distribution  and  geographical  residence,  as  I  will 
show  later.  Demographically,  the  3.6%  seem  quite  representa- 
tive of  the  96.4%  who  didn't  answer,  and  this  leads  us  to 
believe  that  their  feelings  and  opinions  are  also  an  accurate 
representation  of  the  total. 


The  Results  in  Detail 

In  this  section  I  will  present  the  results  of  the  survey  along 
with  certain  demographics  and  some  discussion  of  the  more 
involved  questions.  To  eliminate  the  tired  eye  syndrome  that 

inevitably    comes    from    looking   at    too    many    figures   neatly 

arrayed  in  tables  (1  am  quite  familiar  with  this  condition  after 


wading  through  the  hundreds  of  pages  of  computer  printout 
that  resulted  from  this  survey!),  the  information  will  bei 
presented  in  graphic  form  whenever  possible.  Unless  stated 
otherwise,  all  figures  refer  to  percentages  of  the  total  number, 
of  responses  to  each  question,  rounded  to  the  nearest  whole 
number. 


Best  single  source  of  information  about 
WPI 


Journal     77% 


How  much  of  the  Journal  do  you  read? 


Feature  articles 

17 

39 

43 

1 

Alumni  activity  reports 

22 

33 

38 

7 

Sports  reports 

22 

22 

37 

19 

Alumni  fund  reports 

17 

25 

44 

14 

Class  notes 

34 

33 

32 

1 

Completed  Careers 

27 

28 

38 

7 

How  much  time  do  you  spend  reading 
each  Journal  issue? 


30-60  minutes   52% 


1  hour  or  more   36% 


1  %     Don't  usually  read 


Frequency  of  Journal  publication 


About  right 

89% 

Not  often  enough 

8% 

Too  often 

3% 

Frequency  of  all  information  from  WPI 
and  Alumni  Association 


About  right 

86% 

Too  often 

9% 

Not  often  enough 

5% 

One  of  the  key  questions  the  Publications  Committee  and 
I  were  interested  in  was  how  continuing  education  would  fare 
in  this  questionnaire,  because  we  adopted  this  (and  the 
Association's  Executive  Council  endorsed  it)  as  a  basic  raison 
d'etre  for  the  magazine  in  a  statement  of  policy  published  two 
years  ago.  Survey  respondents,  however,  split  very  evenly  on 
the  issue:  24%  ranked  it  the  first  purpose,  12%  second,  24% 
third,  10%  fourth,  21%  fifth,  and  9%  considered  it  not  a 
proper  purpose  of  the  Journal.  Strongest  support  for  con- 
tinuing education  came  from  the  youngest  alumni  group 
identified  (classes  of  '68  to  '7  3,  with  34%  ranking  it  first)  and 
from  the  oldest  (prior  to  the  class  of  '3  3,  with  29%  ranking  it 
first). 


Do  you  feel  the  Journal  has  changed  over 
the  past  two  years  in  the  following  areas? 


Yes 

No 

Types  of  feature  articles 

95 

5 

Editorial  style  of  articles 

86 

14 

Use  of  illustrations 

78 

22 

Style  and  layout 

89 

11 

Cover  designs 

95 

5 

Treatment  of  traditional  departments 

and  articles 

58 

42 

This  question  did  not  leave  any  room  for  judgment  whether 
the  reader  considered  change  to  be  good  or  bad.  Two-thirds  of 
the  respondents  wrote  in  comments  here,  or  later  on,  that 
enabled  us  to  derive  the  following  statistic: 


90% 


10% 


Like  the  changes,  like 
the  current  Journal 


Don't  like  changes, 
preferred  older  Journals 


The  Purpose  of  the  Journal 

Asked  to  rank  various  items  in  order  as  main  purposes  of  the 
Journal,  respondents  clearly  indicated  that  alumni  news  was 
first  (47%  ranked  it  so)  and  campus  news  was  second  (21% 
ranked  this  first,  41%  second).  The  stimulation  of  alumni 
participation  in  WPI  and  Association  activities  came  further 
down,  and  the  stimulation  of  alumni  contributions  was  a  clear 
last  choice  (32%  ranked  it  fifth  of  five  given  choices,  and  11% 
marked  it  not  a  purpose). 


Degree  of  interest  in  areas  of  Journal 
coverage 

The  results  of  this  question  seemed  to  bear  out  the  pattern 
shown  in  the  previous  question  on  purpose  and  the  earlier 
question  about  the  readership  of  various  sections.  Respondents 
were  here  asked  to  rank  each  of  nine  types  of  Journal  articles 
and  departments  on  a  four-point  scale:  strong  interest  — 
interest  —  slight  interest  —  no  interest.  While  a  complete 
tabulation  is  presented  below,  the  results,  briefly,  show  readers 


Strong 
Interest 


Interest 


Slight 
Interest 


No 
Interest 


Feature  articles  for  continuing  education 

News  of  alumni  and  alumni  activities 

Biographies  and  background  stories  on  prominent  alumni  and  faculty 

News  of  campus  activities 

Sports  reports 

Class  notes 

Completed  Careers 

Alumni  fund  reports 

Letters  to  the  Editor 


22 

42 

27 

10 

51 

39 

9 

1 

33 

47 

17 

3 

33 

47 

18 

3 

17 

32 

32 

19 

57 

32 

10 

1 

26 

37 

32 

6 

8 

40 

42 

11 

10 

39 

38 

13 

most  interested  in  class  notes,  followed  closely  by  alumni 
news.  Campus  news  and  biographies/background  stories  on 
prominent  alumni  and  faculty  came  next,  with  virtually 
identical  distribution  of  answers.  Next  in  line  came  feature 
articles  for  continuing  education  and  obituaries.  Bringing  up 
the  tail  end,  in  order,  were  letters  to  the  editor,  alumni  fund 
reports,  and  sports  reports.  The  bottom  placing  of  these  last 
few  becomes  clearly  evident  in  the  "no  interest"  column. 

Several  patterns  relating  to  age  and  area  of  employment  show 
up  in  this  question.  Feature  articles  held  strongest  interest  for 
young  alumni  ('68-'73:  44%  strong  interest)  and  those  in 
education  (32%  strong)  and  research  (29%  strong  interest); 
they  were  least  interesting  to  the  oldest  alumni  group  (prior  to 
'3  3:  15%  indicated  no  interest).  Young  alumni  were,  by  a 
sizable  margin,  more  interested  in  news  of  WPI  and  the 
campus.  Three  areas  showed  a  definite  increase  in  interest  with 
increasing  age:  class  notes,  obituaries,  and  alumni  fund  reports. 
The  trend  is  particularly  strong  for  obituaries,  where  64%  of 
the  oldest  alumni  group  indicated  they  read  all  of  them  in  each 
issue,  and  56%  showed  strong  interest  in  responding  to  this 
question. 

One  curious  item  to  emerge  is  that,  of  all  job  categories  in 
this  survey,  those  respondents  in  corporate  management  — 
men  who  presumably  must  know  their  way  around  money 
matters  and  figures  —  showed  least  interest  in  alumni  fund 
reports  —  21%  said  "no  interest." 

Have  you  been  conscious  of  any 
differences  between  the  Journal  and 
Newsbriefs? 


Yes 
No 


84% 
16% 


Who  Was  It  Sent  in  These 
Questionnaires,  Anyway? 

As  we  mentioned  before,  this  3.6%  sample  is  remarkably  close 
to  the  total  alumni  population  in  age  and  geographic  distribu- 
tion. The  actual  figures  look  like  this: 


WPI  class 

%  Responding 

%  of  Total  Alumni 

'68-'73 

14 

21 

'63-'67 

14 

14 

'53-'62 

21 

20 

'43-'52 

16 

18 

'33-'42 

14 

13 

prior  to  '33 

21 

15 

Residence 

%  Responding 

%  of  Total  Alumni 

Worcester  Co 

unty 

10 

15 

Other  Massac 

husetts 

19 

15 

Other  New  England 

18 

18 

Subtotal 

(47) 

(48) 

Other  Northeast 

14 

Mid-Atlantic 

14 

Subtotal 

(75) 

(67) 

South 

6 

Midwest 

9 

Southwest 

2 

Far  West 

7 

Outside  U.S. 

0.3 

The  only  deviations  here  are  easily  explained  by  common- 
sense  reasoning.  The  youngest  group  would,  naturally,  be  most 
bound  up  in  their  present  and  future  concerns  and  least  likely 
to  be  concerned  with  their  immediate  past.  The  oldest  group, 
on  the  other  hand,  would  naturally  be  more  interested  in  their 
past;  and  since  most  of  them  are  retired,  they  also  have  more 
time  for  such  things  as  questionnaires. 


What  are  they  doing? 

Of  those  who  sent  in  questionnaires,  50%  describe  their  jobs  as 
supervisory,  22%  as  non-supervisory,  9%  as  self-employed,  and 
19%  as  retired.  Their  job  areas  broke  down  as:  engineering 
(40%),  corporate  management  (12%),  research  (10%),  market- 
ing and  sales  (9%),  education  (8%),  manufacturing  (7%), 
administration  (5%),  and  "other"  (8%). 

Nearly  half  the  respondents  didn't  check  any  of  the  boxes 
indicating  extent  of  alumni  activity. 


The  Comments 

We  gave  readers  a  real  chance  to  talk  back  to  us  in  this  survey 
(we  even  paid  the  postage),  and  most  took  the  opportunity  to 
mention  their  feelings  about  the  Journal,  about  WPI,  about 
life.  .  .  .  There  were  both  negative  and  positive  comments,  and 
many  seemed  happy  to  get  something  off  their  chests.  The 
single  type  of  article  most  requested  was  more  information  on 
the  WPI  Plan.  The  next  biggest  call  was  for  articles  dealing 
with  the  applications  of  technology  to  important  current 
problems:  pollution,  energy,  evnironmental  concerns,  urban 
problems,  transportation.  There  seemed  to  be  great  concern 
with  jobs  and  career  opportunities,  and  many  wondered  about 
the  effects  of  the  WPI  Plan  on  these. 

We  print  below  some  of  the  more  interesting  and  though- 
tful comments,  with  an  occasional  editor'-s  reply  to  the 
(usually)  anonymous  reader. 


first  name.  "Mr."  indicates  that  the  writer 
never  knew  them  personally. 


The  change  in  WPI  educational 
approach  came  as  a  shock  to  this  old  hand — 
'1 6 — but  the  more  I  learn  of  it  the  more  sure 
I  am  that  it  is  correct  and  should  have  come 
earlier. 


The  Journal  is  essentially  a  throw- 
away  magazine,  once  glanced  over — I 
don't  feel  you  need  to  spend  as  much  on  a 
"slick  paper"  production.  Editorial  content 
and  paper  quality  need  not  be  related  or 
dependent. 

There  isn't  paper  available  much  cheaper  than  what  we 
now  use  except  for  newsprint. 


The  continuing  liberalization  of 
curriculum  at  WPI  away  from  solid  engineer- 
ing has  steadily  decreased  my  desire  to 
contribute  to  the  school.  I  see  so  many  B.S. 
artists  (that's  bullshit)  in  engineering 
positions  who  don't  know  engineering 
fundamentals  that  I  feel  schools  are  teaching 
only  surface  subjects.  How  about  Dr. 
Moruzzi's  "learn  the  basics  or  flunk" 
approach?  That's  where  I  learned  to  pay 
attention  to  details  and  basics.  It's  the  only 
approach  that  get's  engineering  work 
done  .  .  .  (and  from  the  same  person)  .  .  . 
Newsbriefs  goes  into  the  trash 
immediately. 


Most  of  the  completed  careers  I  read 
are  about  men  I  knew.  Therefore,  I  would 
prefer  that  they  be  referred  to  by  their 


'When  I  read  of  the  conversion  of  my 
beloved  foundry  into  the  status  which 
approaches  a  ladies'  lounge,  my  depression 
is  so  deep  that  I  hardly  care  what  happens 
at  WPI.  I  go  to  the  basement  and  stare  at 
my  old  hand  grinder  which  was  born  in  the 
foundry. 

The  foundry  is  not  being  converted  into  anything  which 
"approaches  a  ladies'  lounge";  it  is  being  changed  into  a 
Project  Center,  a  place  where  students  can  work  on 
projects  (which  are  degree  requirements),  where  they 
can  construct  equipment  and  apparatus  they  may  need, 
where  they  can  receive  technical  assistance.  In  fact,  in 
many  ways  the  Project  Center  represents  a  return  to  the 
oldest  traditions  of  WPI,  with  emphasis  on  application 
as  well  as  theory.  To  be  sure,  the  Project  Center  does 
contain  a  ladies'  "lounge";  after  all,  there  will  be  women 
students  using  the  building  and  they  have  physical  needs 
too.  Finally,  when  you  look  at  your  old  hand  grinder, 
think  of  how  today's  students  will  feel  in  twenty  or 
thirty  or  forty  years  as  they  contemplate  items — tools, 
apparatus,  models,  etc. — that  they  will  have  designed  and 
built  themselves  using  the  resources  of  the  Project 
Center.  And  it's  a  far  better  use  for  the  foundry  building 
than  the  Buildings  and  Grounds  workroom  and  garage 
that  it  has  been  since  1958. 


D^F""How  about  printing  job  opportunities 
in  the  $25,000  to  $50,000  category? 


Ways  the  Journal  can  be  improved 
Cease  publication. 

Gesundheit. 


The  avant-garde  covers  leave  me  cold. 
The  old  "campus  view,"  to  me,  was  more 
appropriate. 


Liked  the  cover  on  this  issue;  a  credit 
to  your  effort. 


I  am  not  aware  of  any  "needs"  that 
the  Journal  could  help  to  provide. 


I  personally  don't  find  time  to  read 
WPI  material  and  believe  it  wastes  alumni 
funds  to  which  I  donate  regularly. 


The  Journal  is  a  lot  of  work  to  you  for 
a  very  minimal  interest  to  me — could  be 
considered  by  some  to  be  both  a  waste  of 
time  and  money. 


Too  much  emphasis  on  contributions. 

On  the  other  hand: 


Keep  up  the  high  standard  of  your 
publications. 

MF"The  editor's  job  is  almost  a  thankless 
task;  I  wouldn't  want  it  and  he  has  my 
sympathy. 


The  "new"  Journal  is  superb!  I  have 
no  idea  as  to  its  costs,  but  as  far  as  I'm 
concerned  it's  the  best  thing  that  we've 
ever  had  insofar  as  keeping  the  alumni  and 
school  together.  Keep  it  up. 


8^""Out  with  the  Newsbriefs.  More  about 
campus  and  what  a  visiting  alumnus  might 
expect  to  find.  Less  noise  about  alumni 
babies.  Try  to  justify  why  the  Institute 
deserves  our  continuing  financial  support. 


Write  more  about  WPI  people — there 
are  plenty  of  special,  technical  oriented 
magazines  with  articles  of  technical 
interest — too  many  to  read  !  Why  add  more? 


It's  fine  to  remember  the  past;  they 
were  great  times,  but  that  only  goes  so 
far.  In  addition  to  that,  keep  the  informa- 
tion articles  that  educate  as  well  coming. 
Alpha  and  Omega  is  an  excellent  example. 


I  much  prefer  the  old  WPI  Journal. 
Some  of  the  technical  articles  are  too  deep 
for  me,  such  as  appeared  in  a  recent  issue. 
I  don't  recall  the  title,  but  it  had  to  do  with 
technology. 


The  concept  of  continuing  education 
as  a  purpose  for  the  Journal  is  interesting. 
I  think  some  tentative  steps  have  been  taken 
in  this  direction. 


I  don't  read  the  Journal  to  be  educated ; 
nor  am  I  practicing  as  an  engineer.  I  am 
interested  in  knowing  where  my  friends 
are  and  what  they  are  doing. 


WPI  is  moving  in  the  right  direction. 
This  is  the  result  of  having  an  outstanding 
educator  as  administrator  instead  of  a 
retired  military  person  waiting  for 
retirement. 

But  it  was  one  of  those  retired  military  persons,  President 
Harry  Storke,  who  personally  initiated  the  faculty  self- 
study  program  that  developed  the  WPI  Plan. 


SO,  FOLKS,  that's  what  we  learned  from  the  survey.  The 
many  suggestions  for  articles  were  appreciated  and  should 
result  in  more  interesting  reading  in  the  issues  ahead.  We 
discovered  that  we  were  not  covering  some  areas  ol  particular 
interest  to  readers,  such  as  campus  news,  and  have  moved  to 
rectify  those  omissions.  Thank  you.  And  thanks,  too,  to  John 
Lyons  and  Ed  Perkins  of  the  Worcester  Area  College 
Computation  Center  for  their  invaluable  assistance  in  tabul- 
ating the  survey  results. 


A  brief  introduction  to  the 
complexities  of  the  little-known 
science  of  ski  design 

by  Bryan  A.  Kashiwa,  '73 


fy 


yA 


*9u 


eS 


4* 


ymo** 


THERE  ARE  BETTER  THINGS  to  do  in  life,"  said  Oliver 
Wendell  Holmes  (or  was  it  Robert  Benchley?),  "than  to 
strap  boards  to  one's  feet  and  slide  down  a  mountain."  That  is 
an  opinion  which  many  people  would  dispute.  They  wait 
eagerly  each  November  for  the  onset  of  snow  and  the  opening 
of  the  ski  slopes. 

But  what  about  those  boards  they  strap  on  their  feet?  In 
fact,  they  are  sophisticated  vehicles  with  carefully  engineered 
performance  characteristics  and  refined  behavior.  It  is  safe  to 
say  that  the  average  skier  has  little  awareness  of  the  engineer- 
ing considerations  that  go  into  the  design  and  construction  of 
snow  skis.  In  this  article  I  hope  to  introduce  Journal  readers  to 
some  of  those  considerations. 

In  hopes  of  giving  an  explicit  description  without  getting  into 
a  discussion  which  will  be  completely  foreign  to  the  non-skiing 
reader,  I  will  attempt  to  define  a  few  commonly  used  terms  in 
skiing  and  then  to  draw  an  analogy  between  the  relatively 
unknown  field  of  ski  design  and  the  more  familiar  field  of 
automobile  engineering. 

Before  getting  into  the  definitions  necessary  for  a  discus- 
sion on  skis,  it  can  be  said  that  the  design  of  snow  skis  consists 
mainly  in  the  basic  isolation  of  variables.  The  ski  design 
engineer  is  continuously  collecting  data,  both  in  the  laboratory 
and  on  the  ski  slope,  and  sorting  it  out  in  order  to  determine  a 


correlation  between  what  is  observed  in  laboratory  testing  and 
what  is  felt  in  on-slope  performance.  The  experienced  ski 
designer  has  a  bank  of  performance  related  data  —  some  of 
which  can  only  be  recorded  subjectively  in  his  mind  —  that 
allows  him  to  determine  what  effects  certain  changes  in  the  ski 
will  have  on  its  behavior  in  skiing;  the  most  advanced  ski 
designer  is  able  to  quantify  these  effects. 


Stability  and  Quickness 

There  are  two  major  qualities  which  define  to  a  large  degree 
the  general  behavior  of  a  ski.  Of  course  there  are  many  other 
qualities  which  define  the  way  a  ski  performs,  but  nothing  that 
says  more  about  a  ski  in  as  few  words  than  a  description  of  its 
relative  stability  and  its  relative  quickness. 


Stability  is  the  relative  degree  to  which  a  ski  is  comfortable 
to  ride. 

Quickness  is  the  relative  ease  with  which  a  ski  carves  a 
turn. 

A  ski  is  comfortable  to  ride  if  it  has  a  solid  feeling  to  it, 
meaning  that  as  you  slide  along  it  follows  a  smooth  path;  this 
gives  the  skier  a  feeling  of  security  that  enables  him  to  ski 
relaxed.  A  ski  is  unstable,  and  therefore  uncomfortable  to  ride, 
if  it  is  easily  deflected  in  all  directions  both  by  inconsistencies 
in  the  sliding  surface  and  by  forces  exerted  by  the  skier  which 
are  not  intended  to  change  the  direction  of  the  ski.  This  gives 
the  skier  a  feeling  of  insecurity  and  causes  him  to  ski  in  a  tense 
and  stressed  condition,  since  he  must  constantly  work  just  to 
keep  his  skis  aligned.  Thus  any  given  skier  will  become  tired 
faster  on  the  less  stable  of  two  different  pairs  of  skis,  for  he 
must  do  more  work  to  ski  properly  on  the  unstable  pair. 

A  ski  is  quick  if  it  carves  a  turn  with  very  little  effort. 
(Carving  is  an  expression  used  to  describe  the  turn  in  which 
the  ski  takes  the  shape  of  the  curved  path  it  is  following,  so 
that    it    "cuts"    a   path   through   the  snow  without  sideways 


The  experienced  ski  designer  has 
a  bank  of  performance-related 
data— some  of  which  can  only  be 
recorded  subjectively  in  his  mind. 
The  most  advanced  ski  designer 
is  able  to  quantify  these. 


slippage.)  A  ski  which  is  not  as  quick  as  another  will  require 
more  effort  to  execute  a  turn  of  given  radius. 

Obviously  there  are  many  different  degrees  of  stability  and 
quickness.  An  experienced  ski  tester  can  rate  a  group  of  skis  in 
order  of  their  relative  quickness  and  stability  by  skiing  on 
them  in  a  sequence  which  allows  him  to  make  one-to-one 
comparisons  between  them  all.  The  measure  that  he  uses  in 
doing  this  is  the  amount  of  work  that  he  must  do  to  keep  the 
skis  aligned,  and  the  effort  he  must  exert  in  turning  them.  For 
well  designed  skis  it  is  found  that,  within  a  group,  the  most 
stable  ski  will  be  the  least  quick  and  the  quickest  ski  will  be 
the  least  stable;  this  observation  is  apparent  in  the  definitions 
of  the  terms. 


By  way  of  analogy,  consider  different  types  of  auto- 
mobiles, classified  in  order  of  their  riding  comfort  and 
handling  qualities.  At  one  end  of  the  spectrum  you  have  the 
large  luxury  cars  which  are  very  comfortable  to  ride  in,  very 
"stable,"  but  are  not  as  good  in  handling  (in  terms  of  turning 
radius,  turning  response,  and  ultimate  cornering  capability)  as 
the  small  sporty  cars  on  the  other  end  of  the  spectrum,  whose 
handling  is  much  better  but  which  do  not  have  the  riding 
qualities  of  a  large  limousine.  Thus  the  automotive  engineer  is 
faced  with  the  same  situation  as  the  ski  engineer:  both  must 
strike  a  balance  between  ride  comfort  and  good  handling,  and 
the  trade-off  between  ride  and  handling,  stability  and  quick- 
ness generates  a  variety  of  models  in  both  fields. 


The  Trade-off 

As  we  have  just  seen,  a  ski  designed  for  maximum  stability  will 
be  more  difficult  to  turn  than  one  designed  for  maximum 
quickness.  A  very  quick  ski  will  in  turn  be  less  stable, 
characterized  by  a  greater  difficulty  in  keeping  the  skis  parallel 
—  a  difficulty  magnified  at  high  speeds.  Because  a  ski  must  be 
deflected  vertically  and  its  linear  motion  changed  simultane- 
ously in  order  to  carve  a  turn,  a  stable  ski  (which  is  not  easily 
deflected  in  any  direction)  will  be  more  difficult  to  turn  than 
an  unstable  ski.  A  very  quick  ski  will  be  easily  deflected,  both 
vertically  and  in  a  direction  away  from  its  linear  motion, 
therefore  making  it  less  stable  than  a  ski  which  requires  more 
force  to  change  its  direction. 

Now,  the  logical  question  to  ask  is,  "Why  not  just  build 
maximum  stability  and  maximun  quickness  in  one  ski  and 
consider  it  the  best  possible  ski  design?"  The  simple  answer  is 
that  a  different  balance  between  stability  and  quickness  is 
necessary  for  skis  of  different  performance  definitions.  That  is, 
a  ski  which  executes  large  radius  turns  at  high  speeds  well  will 
not  easily  make  small  radius  turns  at  low  speeds,  and  a  ski 
which  makes  good  small  radius  turns  at  low  speeds  will  feel 
unstable  if  a  large  radius  turn  at  a  high  speed  is  attempted. 

In  ski  racing  there  are  three  events,  slalom,  giant  slalom 
and  downhill,  each  requiring  skis  that  differ  widely  in  their 
balance  between  stability  and  quickness.  A  slalom  ski  is  very 
quick  in  small  radius  turns;  a  giant  slalom  ski  is  not  as  quick  in 
small  turns  but  is  stable  at  higher  speeds  and  in  larger  turns.  A 
downhill  ski  is  an  extreme  case  of  the  giant  slalom  ski,  made 
for  highest  speeds.  Within  each  of  these  three  major  divisions 
in  the  stability-quickness  balance  aspect  of  ski  design,  there  are 
a  number  of  slalom,  giant  slalom,  and  downhill  skis,  each 
having  its  own  varying  characteristics.  This  is  a  result  of  many 


Axes  of  a  ski  and  some  dimensions.  A  and  A'  are  the  widest 
points  fore  and  aft,  B  is  the  waist  width,  C  is  the  waist  location,  D 
and  D'  are  the  tangency  points  fore  and  aft,  E  is  the  running  surface 
length,  F  is  the  cord  length,  Yj  is  the  thickness  at  position  j  and  Cj  is 


the  camber  height  at  position  i.  The  fore  and  aft  widths,  waist  width 
and  location,  thickness  profile  and  camber  line,  together  with  the 
mass  distribution  of  the  ski  all  determine  the  riding  and  turning 
qualities  of  the  ski. 


different  ski  racers  having  very  different  abilities  and  using 
/ery  different  techniques.  Thus  there  is  a  whole  spectrum  of 
;ki  designs  ranging  from  the  quickest,  smallest  radius  turning 
>ki  to  the  most  stable  downhill  ski. 


The  Variables  the  Ski  Engineer 
Works  With 

The  analogy  between  the  automotive  design  engineer's  work 
and  the  ski  design  engineer's  work  can  be  extended  still 
further.  While  both  fields  involve  the  basic  performance 
qualities  of  ride  and  handling,  such  manufacturing  considera- 
tions as  parts  fabrication,  materials  and  assembly  costs,  as  well 
as  availability  of  materials,  enter  into  the  decisions  on  how  to 
achieve  certain  desired  qualities  in  the  product.  In  addition  to 
economic  considerations,  the  engineer  in  both  areas  must  look 
at  physical  things  such  as  durability,  fatigue  life,  and  behavior 
in  varying  ambient  conditions.  In  this  article,  however,  I  shall 
focus  on  the  variables  in  design  which  the  ski  engineer  has  to 
work  with  in  developing  a  ski  with  a  given  performance 
objective. 

The  engineer  designing  an  automotive  suspension  system 
has  four  basic  variables  which  he  can  control  independently  (at 
least  to  a  certain  degree):  (1)  the  length  and  width  of  the 
wheelbase;  (2)  the  stiffness  of  the  springs  and  tires;  (3)  the 
weight  of  the  car;  and  (4)  the  amount  of  damping  provided  by 
the  shock  absorbers.  The  automotive  engineer  has  a  bank  of 
knowledge  concerning  the  effect  of  these  variables,  both 
separately  and  collectively,  on  the  physical  behavior  of  the  car 
in  service.  The  ski  designer  has  the  same  four  variables,  but 


with  a  different  twist.  For  a  ski  of  a  given  length,  the  width, 
stiffness,  weight  and  dampness  (yes,  that's  what  it's  called)  are 
all  distributed  along  the  length  of  the  ski,  and  there  is  no  single 
numerical  value  that  can  be  given  to  these  four  qualities.  The 
essence  of  ski  design  is  in  the  manipulation  of  the  distribution 
of  the  four  variables,  in  finding  a  way  to  classify  the 
differences  in  this  distribution  and  in  correlating  all  this  to  the 
performance  of  the  ski  as  a  system. 

The  following  quick  run-down  on  each  variable  and  its 
influence  on  the  general  behavior  of  the  ski  will  help  give  a 
rough  understanding  of  the  function  of  a  ski,  and  to  further 
define  the  work  of  the  ski  designer. 


NORMAL 


SLOPE 


Angulation.  A  ski  has  a  side  cut  so  that  it  will  bend  when  angulated 
together  with  a  load  along  its  Y  axis.  The  thickness  profile,  which 
determines  the  stiffness  distribution,  must  be  designed  to  coincide 
with  the  width  distribution  in  order  that  the  ski  can  take  the  shape 
of  a  smooth  curve  at  a  given  angulation. 


1.  Width  and  its  distribution,  also  known  as  side-cut,  deter- 
mines the  radius  of  turn  that  the  ski  will  carve  for  a  given 
stiffness  distribution  and  angulation  (see  figures  1  and  2).  A 
ski  with  more  of  the  width  distributed  to  the  ends  (a  ski  with 
more  side-cut)  will  bend  more  for  a  given  angulation  than  a  ski 
with  less  side-cut.  Since  a  ski  is  flexible,  it  will  bend  when 
angulated  on  a  flat  surface  while  a  load  is  applied  along  its  y 
axis.  The  balance  or  symmetry  between  the  fore  and  aft 
sections  of  the  ski  when  divided  in  two  at  mid-running  surface, 
is  an  important  factor  to  the  turning  ability  of  the  ski.  A  ski 
with  a  tail  which  is  too  wide  in  relation  to  its  tip  will  be 
difficult  to  turn  since  there  will  not  be  sufficient  bend  in  the 
fore  section  of  the  ski  for  a  given  angulation.  A  ski  which  has 
too  wide  a  tip  in  relation  to  its  tail  will  turn  over  easily  since 
its  fore  section  will  tend  to  bend  much  more  than  its  aft 
section  for  a  given  angulation.  The  average  or  overall  width 
itself  is  an  important  factor  in  determining  stability  and 
1  o  quickness,  simply  because  the  wider  the  ski  is  overall,  the  more 

effort  is  required  to  deliberately  angulate  the  ski  in  order  to 
bend  the  ski  and  carve  a  turn.  A  very  narrow  ski  will  be 
angulated  or  "put  on  edge"  easier  than  a  ski  of  equal  side-cut 
but  of  greater  average  width. 

The  essence  of  ski  design  is  in  the 
manipulation  of  the  distribution 
of  the  four  variables,  finding  a 
way  to  classify  the  differences, 
and  in  correlating  all  this  to  the 
performance  of  the  ski  as  a 
system. 


2.  Stiffness  and  its  distribution  must  be  considered  in  three 
dimensions.  Vertical  stiffness  and  its  distribution  or  the 
resistance  of  the  ski  to  deflection  in  the  y  direction,  lateral 
stiffness  or  the  ski's  resistance  to  deflection  in  the  z  direction 
and  torsional  stiffness  or  resistance  to  torsional  deflection 
about  the  x  axis.  The  vertical  stiffness  distribution  is  fixed  by 
the-  thickness  profile  and  the  placement  and  configuration  of 
the  material]  of  the  structure.  This  determines  in  part  the 
carving  ability  of  the  ski  and  therefore  influences  the  stability 
of  the  ski  and  has  a  major  effecl  on  the  quickness.  A  ski  with  a 
greater  overall  stiffness  than  another  will  be  more  difficult  to 
turn,  if  all  other  factors  are  the  same. 


If  you  consider  the  ski  in  three  equally  divided  segments, 
and  its  mid-segment  is  too  soft,  then  the  ski  will  be  easy  to 
turn,  but  if  it  is  too  soft  the  ski  will  feel  unstable.  If  the 
mid-segment  is  too  stiff,  the  ski  will  be  very  difficult  to  bend, 
thus  requiring  more  effort  to  carve  a  turn.  If  the  forward 
segment  is  too  stiff,  the  ski  will  not  easily  initiate  a  turn,  since 
this  part  of  the  ski  must  begin  to  bend  before  the  rest  of  the 
ski,  in  carving  a  turn.  If  the  fore  section  is  too  soft,  the  skier 
will  have  an  insecure  feeling  like  driving  a  car  with  soft  front 
tires  or  play  in  the  steering  wheel,  since  the  fore  section  is  the 
part  of  the  ski  used  for  steering  (in  the  most  conventional 
turning  technique).  If  the  last  section  is  too  stiff  it  will 
side-slip  in  an  arcing  turn;  if  it  is  too  soft,  the  ski  will  feel 
sluggish,  in  that  it  will  not  provide  a  "vaulting"  effect  at  the 
end  of  the  turn.  Thus  the  balance  between  the  strength  of  the 
ski  in  its  various  segments  is  important  to  its  turning 
characteristics. 

In  addition  to  the  stiffness  and  its  distribution,  the  camber 
height  and  its  distribution  is  an  important  design  criterion.  A 
ski  is  cambered  so  that  there  is  pressure  on  the  snow  at  the 
ends  of  the  ski  to  provide  steering  ability.  The  camber  height 
determines  the  amount  that  the  ski  is  loaded  in  its  flat  position 
and  how  that  load  is  distributed,  for  a  given  stiffness  and 
stiffness  distribution.  Thus  the  camber  height  is  a  measure  of 
the  ski's  apparent  stiffness,  since  two  skis  of  identical  stiffness 
will  appear  to  be  different  in  stiffness  if  they  differ  in  camber 
height.  Both  vertical  stiffness  and  camber  height  control  the 
amount  of  effort  the  skier  must  exert  in  order  to  bend  the  ski 
in  to  a  given  curve.  If  the  camber  and/or  stiffness  is  too  high, 
the  ski  will  be  very  hard  to  turn,  if  one  or  the  other  or  both 
are  too  low,  then  the  ski  will  have  poor  steering  qualities,  and 
will  be  difficult  to  keep  aligned  and  therefore  unstable. 

The  torsional  and  lateral  stiffness  of  the  ski  determine  its 
ability  to  keep  from  slipping  sideways  in  a  carving  turn.  Since 
the  ski  is  actually  "scraping"  the  snow  in  the  turn,  one  which 
resists  deflection  in  torsion  and  laterally  will  provide  a 
"scraper"  with  more  pressure  and  a  steeper  angle  to  the  sliding 
surface,  especially  on  very  hard,  icy  surfaces. 

3.  Mass  and  its  distribution  determines  the  ease  with  which 
the  ski  can  be  rotated  about  its  y  axis.  A  ski  which  is  more 
easily  rotated  will  tend  to  be  quicker  than  one  which  is  more 
difficult  to  rotate  but  is  otherwise  identical.  A  ski  which  is  too 
massive  and/or  has  its  mass  distributed  too  much  to  the  ends 
will  feel  sluggish  in  coming  out  of  a  carved  turn  in  addition  to 
being  cumbersome  to  carry  around.  A  ski  which  is  too  light 
will  feel  insecure  at  high  speed,  since  it  will  be  too  easily 
deflected  sideways  and  vertically;  it  will  not  have  the  mass 
n<  cessary  to  develop  the  momentum  needed  for  a  smooth  ride. 


"Bucky"  Kashiwa  is  a  product  design  engineer  at  K2 
Corporation,  Vashon  Island,  Washington,  with  impeccable 
skiing  credentials.  He  is  a  former  senior  A  ski  racer,  and 
his  brother  Hank,  a  member  of  the  U.S.  Olympic  team  in 
1972,  is  currently  a  professional  ski  racer.  Bucky  entered 

The  three  variables  of  width,  stiffness,  and  mass  and  their 
distribution  are  all  interrelated  in  determining  the  performance 
of  the  ski.  Imbalances  in  stiffness  can  be  compensated  for  by 
changes  in  width;  imbalances  in  width  can  be  changed  by 
stiffness,  or  camber  changes;  and  either  or  both  can  cause 
discrepancies  in  performance  which  can,  in  some  cases,  be 
corrected  by  changes  in  mass  distribution.  This  is  the  reason 
there  are  many  differently  shaped  skis  on  the  market,  all 
differing  in  mass,  stiffness,  and  width  but  which  ski  in  a 
manner  comparable  to  one  another. 

4.  Dampness,  the  internal  energy  absorbing  capacity  of  the 
ski,  determines  in  part  the  comfort  of  the  ski's  ride.  A  very 
damp  ski  will  be  more  comfortable  to  ride  on  very  hard  snow 
and  ice  than  a  ski  which  has  very  low  internal  energy  absorbing 
capacity. 

Making  Measurements  Meaningful 

These  four  major  variables,  together  with  related  variables  such 
as  stiffness  in  three  dimensions  and  camber,  make  a  total  of 
about  nine  factors  that  contribute  to  the  ride  and  handling 
qualities  of  the  ski,*  and  the  ski  engineer  must  find  ways  to 
sort  out  and  define  the  variables  in  the  laboratory.  Before  any 
meaningful  correlation  between  laboratory  and  on-slope  per- 
formance  data   can   be  made,  the  laboratory  data  must  be 


WPI  in  September  1970  and  graduated  under  the  WPI 
Plan  in  March  1973.  His  major  qualifying  project  was  a 
study  of  drag  in  skiing  and  his  interactive  project  involved 
a  study  of  creativity.  He  is  a  native  of  Old  Forge,  New 
York. 

collected  in  a  manner  most  representative  of  the  actual  nature 
of  the  ski.  The  engineering  in  ski  design  takes  place  both  in 
determining  the  laboratory  description  of  ski,  and  in  learning 
qualitatively  the  degree  to  which  each  individual  change  in 
variable  affects  the  performance  of  the  ski.  The  effects  of 
various  changes  in  the  ski  on  its  behavior  is  something  learned 
only  through  experience;  from  continuously  collecting  bits  of 
data  both  subjectively  and  through  controlled  testing.  The 
optimum  method  of  describing  the  ski  is  also  something 
learned  only  through  experience,  through  trial  and  error  of 
various  methods  to  find  which  ways  are  most  representative  of 
the  true  nature  and  show  the  actual  differences  between  skis; 
it  is  aided  greatly,  however,  by  a  basic  understanding  of  the 
sciences  and  their  application  in  engineering.  Mechanics, 
dynamics,  beam  deflection  theory,  and  control  system  analysis 
are  all  necessary,  in  their  basic  theory,  for  the  most  complete 
description  possible  of  a  ski  and  are  therefore  prerequisites  for 
the  analytical  design  of  skis. 

*One  factor  which  has  a  great  influence  on  the  performance  of 
the  ski  is  the  binding  placement;  although  it  is  not  a  specific 
design  criterion,  it  must  be  considered  in  evaluating  the  ski  on 
the  slope.  A  binding  placement  change  of  only  about  4  mm 
can  change  the  turning  characteristics  of  some  skis,  while  it  is 
less  perceptible  on  skis  of  differing  stiffness,  width,  and  weight 
distributions.  I  Mil 


11 


12 


now 
and  Ice 

Can  you  identify  these 
WPI  buildings  -  -  or 
parts  of  buildings  -  -  in 
their  winter  uniform  of 
snow  and  ice? 

Answers  on  page  17 


photographs  by  Russell  Kay 


^T^nr^^^i 


111  lii—  «—■■■—  I 


■immmmmm  ■■■■■■■am 


8 


16 


11 


13 


!& 


M^     *^* 


v- 


XT 


AjBtUIBf  UI  sX^p  M9J  B  JOJ  3DUBJ1U3 

iuojj  aqi  jbsu  jjbh  uoiuAog  jo  jsujod    b    padBjp   auo 

siqi  'J9iS9DjOyv\  jo  Ajoisiq  aqi  ui  appi  isaSuoj  aqi  sdBqjaj  £\ 

£9jniDid  J9AOD  aqi  jo 

jbuiSuo  aqi  aziuSooa^j  dn-asop  'AjrtqsqBS  uo  Aj9DB.ii  aqx  21 

"IIBH  uoiuAog  01  aDUBalua  aqi  A"q  uoijbuuoj  9dj  ■  j  \ 

•JU3^  J31BMJV  J°  9P!S  9M1  iB  J3!^  B  uo  I!Bi3P  9DI  01 

■qBj  oi  XpBaa  —  squioq  uoiuAog  aqi  jo  auo  '6 

Aan/H  paojuBS  ib  modsuMop  jaunS  A^Baj  v  '8 

IFH  uoiuAog  puB  aSpug  ajJBg  /, 
soisAqj 

jo  ||bh  uqo  ujojj  a\3jS  iBqi  appi  Suoj  puB  aSuBJis  v  '9 

innqqsBM  •£ 
"IFH 

U3AB)I  JO  1UOJJ  UT  ISOd  319J0UOD  B  UO  3DI  JO  3DIUJOD  AuiJ  V      'f 

paSjauia  uns  aqi  \nun  sjnoq  jo  ajdnoD  b  paisBj  Ajuo 
iqSis  aqi  'sb|v  a\ous  jo  Xj3dbji  qaAuapids  b  oiui  pauijoj 
-subji   X||bdi3bui   Aai   aqi    qjiM    'sauoiBjoqBq    XjnqsqBg      £ 

saaunS  DiqjoS 
s(||bh  uoiuAog  uiojj  mojS  iBqi  sappi  aqi  jnq  asp  iBqM    "2 
J31U93  jamdujo^  aqi  oi  aouBjjua  aqi  —  AjBaqiq  uopao^      j 


1      >m 

m 

■ 

SJ9AVSXiy 


1926 


1932 


Your  Class 
and  Others 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  January  1,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information  re- 
ceived after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1910 


The  GEORGE  MARTINS  celebrated  their 
60th  wedding  anniversary  last  November 
4th  at  a  special  mass  offered  in  their  honor 
at  St.  Edward  the  Confessor  Church  in 
Westminster,  Mass. 


1913 


WILLIAM  R.  STULTS  writes  that  he  is  now 
residing  with  his  son  at  White  Oak,  Apt.  3A, 
41  56  Napier  Ave.,  Macon,  Georgia. 


1922 


Married:  ROBERT  B.  HALL  and  Effie  A. 
Reed  on  November  6,  1973  in  Sanbornton, 
New  Hampshire. 


1923 


RICHARD  H.  SHAW  has  retired  from  Allen- 
dale Mutual  Insurance  Co.,  Johnston,  R.I., 
and  is  now  living  in  Clearwater,  Florida.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  WALBERG  was  recently  elected 
chairman  of  the  board  at  San  Francisco 
Federal  Savings  &  Loan  Association.  He  is 
also  chairman  of  the  board  of  Swinerton  & 
Walberg  Company,  a  prominent  construction 
firm  which  operates  throughout  the  United 
States. 


WARREN  T.  WENTWORTH,  who  retired 
from  General  Electric  Co.  several  years  ago, 
is  teaching  mathematics,  drafting,  and  ma- 
chine design  at  Northeast  Institute  of  In- 
dustrial Technology  in  Boston.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
0.  WRIGHT  serves  as  treasurer  of  the  Indoor 
Gardener  Publishing  Company,  Knoxville, 
Tenn.  Previously  he  was  with  Valley  Materials 
Handling,  Inc.,  Knoxville. 


1927 


Last  June  CHARLES  H.  FOGG  retired  as 
chief.  Hydroelectric  Design  Branch,  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Dallas,  Texas. 


1929 


LAURENCE  F.  CLEVELAND  recently  retired 
as  a  professor  of  electrical  engineering  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston,  where  he 
has  been  named  Professor  Emeritus.  He 
plans  on  traveling  during  his  retirement.  .  .  . 
The  ARTHUR  W.  KNIGHTS  have  been  en- 
tertaining a  number  of  WPI  alumni  lately 
including  the  RICHARD  A.  BETHS,  '27; 
H0LBR00K  L.  HORTONS,  '29;  and 
FREDERICK  G.  BALDWINS,  '29.  They 
write:  "While  we  are  at  it — congratulations 
on  the  new  JOURNAL.  It  even  elicits  praise 
from  our  Cornell  son-in-law!" 


1930 


CARL  W.  BACKSTROM  retired  last  summer 
as  division  manager  of  the  Worcester  Wire 
Division  of  National  Standard  Co.  Currently 
he  is  executive  committee  member-at-large 
and  chairman  of  the  Citations  Committee 
for  the  Alumni  Association.  .  .  .  GEORGE  A. 
MARSTON  has  now  fully  retired  from  his 
duties  as  a  professor  of  mechanical  engineer- 
ing at  Western  New  England  College,  Spring- 
field, Mass.  Previously  he  was  dean  of 
engineering  at  the  University  of  Massachu- 
setts. 


1931 


EDWARD  J.  BAYON  has  been  awarded  the 
Arthur  Sydney  Bedell  Award  by  the  New 
England  Water  Pollution  Control  Association 
of  which  he  is  a  member.  The  award  is 
presented  annually  to  an  individual  who  has 
given  performance  and  expertise  in  the  field 
of  water  pollution  control  projects.  Bayon  is 
a  partner  in  the  engineering  firm  of  Tighe  & 
Bond,  Holyoke,  Mass.  .  .  .  GUSTAV  E. 
MANGSEN  is  a  retiree.  Formerly  he  was  a 
research  engineer  at  Greenlee  Diamond 
Tool  Co.,  Des  Plaines,  III.  He  now  resides  in 
Shrewsbury,  Mass. 


EDWIN  S.  BROWN  of  Pawcatuck,  Conn, 
recently  concluded  a  13-year  career  in  the 
engineering  department  of  the  Davis- 
Standard  Division  of  Crompton  &  Knowles. 
In  September  he  was  honored  at  a  retirement 
party  at  the  Pond  View  Country  Club,  where 
he  was  presented  gifts  by  the  company  vice 
president.  Brown  is  a  past  commodore  of 
the  Westerly  (R.I.  )Yacht  Club,  a  past  com- 
mander of  the  Westerly  unit  of  the  U.S. 
Power  Squadron,  and  a  member  of  the  U.S. 
Coast  Guard  Reserves.  Priorto  joining  Davis- 
Standard  he  was  employed  by  Electric  Boat 
and  Bostitch,  Inc. 


1933 


WILLIAM  A.  ANDERSON,  Manchester 
Division  electrical  engineerfor  Public  Service 
Company  of  New  Hampshire,  retired  in 
October  after  more  than  39  years  of  con- 
tinuous service  with  the  utility.  He  joined 
the  General  Engineering  Department  in 
Manchester  in  1934.  After  serving  in  the 
Navy  in  World  War  II,  he  was  transferred  to 
Laconia  as  division  electrical  engineer,  a 
position  he  held  until  1 963  when  he  returned 
to  Manchester.  Anderson  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  New  Hampshire,  a 
member  of  IEEE,  the  New  Hampshire  Society 
of  Professional  Engineers,  and  the  National 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 

ARTHUR  E.  SMITH,  chairman  of  the 
board  of  United  Aircraft  Corp.,  East  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  is  retiring  January  1,  1974.  He 
joined  the  company  as  an  experimental  test 
engineer  with  the  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft 
Division  in  1935.  He  was  elected  president 
of  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  1967  and  in 
January  1968  moved  into  senior  corporate 
management  as  executive  vice  president.  In 
October  1968  he  was  elected  president  of 
United  Aircraft  and  four  years  later  became 
chairman  of  the  corporation.  He  will  con- 
tinue as  a  director  and  executive  committee 
member  following  his  retirement. 

He  is  a  director  of  the  Connecticut  Bank 
and  Trust  Company,  the  Savings  Bank  of 
Manchester,  and  the  Manchester  Memorial 
Hospital.  In  1969  he  was  awarded  an 
honorary  degree  of  doctor  of  engineering 
by  WPI.  A  former  vice  president  of  the 
Hartford  Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association, 
he  also  received  the  Robert  H.  Goddard 
Award  from  the  Association  in  1967. 


1934 


Presently  J.  BOYLSTON  CAMPBELL  is  an 
editor  at  Pacer  Systems,  Inc.,  Fort  Wash- 
ington, Pa. 


1935 


MARK  ABELSON  is  a  staff  assistant  to  the 
secretary  at  the  U.S.  Department  of  the 
Interior,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  .  PRESTON 
H.  HADLEY,  Jr.,  is  vice  president  of  Gibbs  & 
Cox,  Inc.,  Hyattsville,  Md.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  A. 
JOHNSON,  former  program  manager  at 
Naval  Ships  Systems  Command,  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  has  retired.  .  .  .  Also  retired  is 
DOUGLAS  L.  WATKINS,  who  was  chief 
cable  engineer  at  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  Worcester. 


1936 


GEORGE  L.  CHASE  serves  as  executive  vice 
president    at    Ball    and    Socket    Mfg.    Co., 

Cheshire,  Conn HAROLD  F.  HENRICK- 

SON  writes  that  he  is  actively  retired  on  his 
farm  in  Holden,  Mass.,  and  cottage  in 
Vermont,  where  he  hunts.  He  also  has  been 
playing  golf  and  fishing  in  New  Brunswick, 
Me.,  and  the  Cape.  Formerly  he  was  with 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  North  Haven,  Conn. 
.  .  .  JOHN  J.  O'DONNELL  works  as  a  sales 
representative  for  Underground  Products, 
Livonia,  Michigan. 


his  own  business,  Hawkes  Grinding  and 
Tool  Corp.,  where  he  served  as  president 
until  1969.  After  selling  his  business  he 
spent  three  years  as  Director  of  Exhibit 
Production  at  the  Boston  Museum  of 
Science.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  JACKSON,  Jr.  is 
currently  regional  sales  manager  at  E.  I. 
duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  in  Houston, 
Texas. 


1944 


ROBERT  E.  FAY  works  as  a  research  and 
development  manager  for  E.  I.  duPont 
deNemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  E.  POWERS,  Jr.  is  engineering 
manager  at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Norwood,  Mass. 


1945 


JOHN  B.  McMASTER  works  for  Chevron 
Oil  Co.,  Perth  Amboy,  N.J.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
T.  WALSH  has  been  employed  by  Insilco 
Corporation,  Meriden,  Conn. 


1946 


RODNEY  S.  CHASE  serves  as  manager  of 
James  H.  Rhodes  &  Co.,  Long  Island  City, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  HAROLD  L.  SCHIMMACK  is  now 
a  management  consultant  at  the  Department 
of  Health,  Education  and  Welfare,  Atlanta, 
Ga FONG  Z.  YIH  holds  the  post  of  pur- 
chasing manager  for  Kayser-Roth  Interna- 
tional Ltd.,  in  Hong  Kong. 


1947 


LEO  W.  GEARY  is  a  project  engineer  for  the 
U.S.  Navy  at  the  Navy  Yard  in  Washington, 
D.C.  .  .  .  PAUL  D.  O'DONNELL,  general 
manager  of  the  Westinghouse  Specialty 
Metals  Division  at  Blairsville,  Pa.,  was  listed 
in  the  1973  edition  of  WHO'S  WHO.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  H.  TRUESDELL  was  recently 
named  manager  of  Systems  Installation  and 
Service  at  Turbo  Power  &  Marine  Systems, 
a  subsidiary  of  the  United  Aircraft  Corpora- 
tion, in  Farmington,  Conn.  Since  1969  he 


1937 


STANLEY  HYMAN  is  vice  president  of  re- 
search and  development  and  engineering 
for  Safety  First  Products  Corp.,  Elmsford, 
N.Y.  ...  A.  HALLIER  JOHNSON,  now  re- 
tired, is  still  located  in  Chesapeake  City,  Md. 
Previously  he  was  a  project  engineer  at  E.  I. 
duPont  deNemours  &  Co.,  Wilmington, 
Delaware. 


Nixon  to  Name  WPIer 
New  Patent  Chief 


19 


1938 


ALBERT  J.  KULLAS  holds  the  position  of 
director-project  management  and  technology 
at  Martin  Marietta  Data  Systems,  Towson, 
Maryland.  .  .  .  Recently  FRANCIS  WIT- 
KEG  E  and  his  wife,  Lorraine,  visited 
RICHARD  CLOUES  and  his  wife  in  Califor- 
nia during  a  nation-wide  tour  with  their 
24-foot  trailer.  The  Witkeges  gave  their 
hosts  a  first-hand  account  of  the  35th  class 
reunion  held  last  summer  at  WPI. 


1942 


ROY  F.  BOURGAULT,  professor  of  mechan- 
ical engineering  at  WPI,  has  been  elected  to 
the  Mohegan  Council  (Boy  Scouts  of 
America)  board  of  directors  in  Worcester. . .  . 
The  School  Committee  of  North  Reading, 
Mass.,  has  unanimously  chosen  RALPH  G. 
FRITCH  as  the  business  affairs  administrator 
for  the  town  school  system.  His  new  title  is 
Administrative  Assistant  to  the  Superin- 
tendent of  Schools  for  Business  Affairs.  For 
24  years  he  worked  for  the  Boston  and 
Maine  Railroad.  In  1963  he  resigned  to  run 


President  Nixon  announced  in 
December  his  intention  to  nominate 
C.  MARSHALL  DANN,  '35,  as 
Commissioner  of  Patents.  The 
appointment  is  subject  to  Senate 
approval. 

Mr.  Dann,  who  has  been  serving 
as  chief  patent  counsel  for  Du  Pont 
Co.,  will  be  taking  office  as  the 
third  patent  chief  since  the  start  of 
the  Nixon  administration.  He 
succeeds  Robert  Gottschalk  whose 
resignation  was  effective  last  June. 

A  special  panel  headed  by  Dr. 
Ancker-Johnson  screened  prospec- 
tive candidates  for  the  patent  post. 
Mr.  Dann's  qualifications  appear  to 
have  met  the  panel's  criteria.  He  is 
the  immediate  past  president  of  the 
American  Patent  Law  Association 
and  a  former  president  of  the 
Philadelphia  Patent  Law  Association. 
At  58  years  of  age  he  oversees  the 
work  of  90  patent  attorneys  in 
Du  Pont's  patent  division.  Associates 
describe  him  as  a  skilled  yet  not 
flamboyant  administrator  with  an 
excellent  analytical  mind.  His 


approach  is  "cool,  almost  clinical" 
they  say. 

When  asked  why  he  wants  to 
leave  Du  Pont  after  38  years  of 
service,  he  replied  that  he  had  been 
sitting  in  the  same  building  doing 
the  same  thing  for  too  long.  He 
looks  on  his  first  government  post 
as  a  challenging  one. 

Mr.  Dann  is  no  stranger  to 
Washington.  He  received  his 
bachelor  of  laws  degree  from 
Georgetown  University  in  1949. 
After  receiving  his  BS  in  chemistry 
from  WPI  in  1935,  he  earned  his 
MS  from  the  University  of  Delaware 
in  1942. 

As  patent  chief  it  is  expected  that 
he  will  play  a  pivotal  role  in  resolving 
the  rigorous  opposition  to  reform 
measures  now  before  Congress.  He 
will  also  have  to  tackle  such 
administrative  matters  as  resolving 
the  problems  of  the  quota  system 
for  counting  the  work  of  patent 
examiners  and  moving  ahead  with 
measures  to  speed  processing  of 
patent  applications. 


had  been  manager  of  Product  Support.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1965.  Turbo  Power  & 
Marine  Systems  designs,  sells,  installs  and 
services  a  variety  of  gas  turbine-powered 
electric  generating  stations  for  utility  com- 
panies throughout  the  world. 


1948 


Currently  W.  J.  WACHTER  is  engineering 
manager  at  Boeing  Aerospace  in  Kent, 
Washington.  .  .  .  OTTO  KERN  has  been 
named  an  associate  director  in  the  Building 
Services  Department  of  Massachusetts 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  He  joined  the 
company  in  1953  and  was  promoted  to 
building  engineer  in  1971. 


1949 


RENE  H.  BACHAND  was  recently  awarded 
the  position  of  registered  school  business 
administrator  in  the  Longmeadow  (Mass.) 
public  schools.  The  award  is  the  highest 
professional  status  that  can  be  attained  by  a 
practicing  school  business  official  and  is 
granted  by  the  Association  of  School  Busi- 
ness Officials  of  the  United  States  and 
Canada,  an  organization  of  which  he  is  a 
member.  Only  10  per  cent  of  the  active 
national  membership  have  earned  the  award. 
Bachand  is  director  of  business  services  in 
the  Longmeadow  public  schools,  which  he 
joined  as  the  system's  first  business  manager 
in  1960.  He  was  promoted  to  his  present 

position  in  1966 EDMUND  B.  BAKON, 

principal  of  the  Chenery  Middle  School  in 
Belmont,  Mass.,  has  been  elected  by  the 
School  Committee  to  the  position  of  Assist- 
ant Superintendent  for  Curriculum  and  In- 
struction. He  has  served  as  principal  at 
Chenery  since  1968,  when  the  then  Junior 
High  School  was  converted  to  a  Middle 
School,  a  transition  which  was  carried  out 
under  his  leadership.  Bakon  won  his  new 
administrative  position  out  of  a  field  of  115 
applicants.  .  .  .  ALFRED  HAPGOOD,  Jr.  has 
joined  Webster  (Mass.)  Lens  Company  as 
director  of  manufacturing.  Previously  he  had 
served  many  years  in  various  executive  lens 
manufacturing  capacities  at  American  Opti- 
cal Corporation,  Southbridge,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JOHN  D.  SAUNIER  is  a  professional  em- 
ployment counselor  at  Snelling  &  Snelling 
Personnel,  Edison,  N.J. 

JAMES  S.  ADAMS  has  been  appointed 
vice  president  of  marketing  for  General 
Instrument's  Electronic  Systems  Division 
(ESD)  in  Hicksville,  N.Y.,  with  additional 
responsibility  for  all  marketing  activities  of 
the  corporation's  Commercial  Data  Systems 
(CDS)  Division.  Adams,  who  held  the  post 
of  director  of  marketing  at  ESD  since  1968, 
previously  was  the  director  of  systems 
marketing  for  Sperry  Gyroscope  Division  of 
Sperry  Rand.  Earlier,  he  was  associated  with 
AT  &  T.  The  ESD  Division  of  General  In- 
strument specializes  in  electronic  systems 
for  military  and  defense  applications.  The 
CDS  Division  supplies  mini-computer  based 
data  handling  systems  for  business  installa- 
tions. 


1954 


Truesdell,  '47 


Adams,  '49 


1950 


Currently  Col.  FRANK  W.  HARDING  III, 
(USAF),  serves  as  Director  of  Procurement 
at  Rome  (N.Y.)  Air  Development  Center.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  0.  PARNAGIAN  has  been  ap- 
pointed manager  of  the  New  York  District 
Sales  Office  for  Joy  Manufacturing  Com- 
pany of  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  Formerly  he  was 
with  American  Standard  and  Fairbanks 
Morse  Co.  .  .  .  JOHN  W.  PEIRCE  is  vice 
president,  Corporate  Information  Services, 
at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
C.  PIEPER  works  as  a  production  manager 
for  Lear  Avia  Corp.,  Reno,  Nevada.  .  .  . 
LESTER  J.  REYNOLDS,  Jr.  is  presently 
product  manager-textile  chemicals  at 
American  Cyanamid  Co.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J. 


1951 


MARK  E.  BAKER,  a  project  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  is  presently  assigned  as 
engineering  representative  at  the  company's 
western  region  office  in  Los  Angeles,  Calif. 
.  .  .  JOHN  MARLEY  was  honored  by 
Motorola,  Inc.  for  a  patent  granted  jointly  to 
him  and  the  company  for  a  system  design 
for  a  vehicular  antiskid  device.  He  is  senior 
engineer  for  the  Motorola  Semiconductor 
Products  Division.  His  citation  included  a 
cash  award  and  membership  in  the  firm's 
prestigious  Scientific  and  Technological  So- 
ciety. .  .  .  CONSTANTINO  K.  MUSTAKIS 
works  for  Gerente  de  Gianoli  Mustakis  in 
Santiago,  Chile.  .  .  .  DONALD  F.  STOCK- 
WELL  is  now  D  &  E  operations  administrator 
at  the  Foxboro  Co.,  Foxboro,  Mass. . . .  PAUL 
E.  THOMAS  serves  as  manager-new  busi- 
ness development  at  E.  l.duPontdeNemours, 
Wilmington,  Delaware. 


1952 


BRUCE  S.  CAMPBELL  is  assistant  super- 
intendent of  construction  for  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Westlake,  Louisiana.  .  .  .  ALLAN 
R.  THAYER  holds  the  post  of  principal 
engineer  at  Raytheon  Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass. 


RICHARD  C.  LONG,  SIM,  has  been  elected 
assistant  treasurer  at  Commerce  Bank  & 
Trust  Co.,  Worcester.  He  is  administrator  of 
the  bank's  Master  Charge  Department.  .  .  . 
WESLEY  D.  WHEELER  was  recently  ap- 
pointed technical  director  of  American  Bulk 
Carriers,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  Previously  he 
was  technical  counselor  to  the  Bay  of  Cadiz 
new  shipyard  group  (NABAC)  of  Astilleros 
Espanoles,  S.A.  While  in  Spain,  he  presented 
a  paper,  "Shipping — How  Goes  It?",  to  the 
Asociacion  de  Ingenieros  Navales  of  Ma- 
drid, of  which  he  is  a  member. 


1955 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  ROBERT  H.  PEARCE 
a  son,  John  Robert,  on  November  22, 1 973. 
The  Thanksgiving  baby  joins  his  brothers, 
Bill  13,  Michael  10,  and  sister,  Maureen,  6. 
Bob  is  still  with  the  USE  Comm.  at  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  The  Pearces  have  purchased 
a  new  summer  home  at  Goose  Rocks  Beach, 
Kennebunkport,  Me.,  where  some  day  "we 
hope  to  retire." 

RICHARD  L.  GOLDMAN  is  a  product 
manager  at  Microwave  Associates,  Burling- 
ton, Mass.  .  .  .  Presently  BRIAN  J.  KELLY 
works  for  Bell  Telephone  Co.  in  Monroe- 
ville.  Pa. 


1956 


ROBERT  S.  ALLEN  serves  as  vice  president 
of  World  Wide  Construction  Services,  Inc., 

Wichita,  Kansas ALBERT  D.  BATTISTA, 

one  of  the  founders  and  part-owners  of 
Laser,  Inc.,  Sturbridge,  Mass.,  has  been 
named  president  of  the  new  company.  His 
firm  purchased  the  commercial  solid  state 
laser  and  accessory  business  from  American 
Optical  Corp.  last  July.  Earlier  Battista  was 
manager  of  engineering  at  American  Optical 
Corp.,  Southbridge,  Mass.  He  holds  several 
patents  on  laser  products  and  is  a  member 
of  the  Laser  Institute  of  America.  .  .  .  NOR- 
MAN B.  FISCHER  was  recently  appointed 
director  of  engineering  at  Yale-New  Haven 
Medical  Center,  New  Haven,  Conn.  He  also 
serves  as  Newsletter  editor  for  the  New 
England  Hospital  Engineers  Society  and  as 
public  relations  representative  for  the  Con- 
necticut Hospital  Engineers  Society.  He 
writes  that  one  of  his  highest  priorities  is  the 
effective  implementation  of  clinical  engineer- 
ing within  the  hospital  setting.  He  still 
maintains  his  engineering  consultant  busi- 
ness in  Madison,  Conn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  H. 
PHILHOWER  is  a  computer  applications 
specialist  for  DuPont,  Wilmington,  Dela- 
ware  ANTHONY  V.  SCANCELLA  works 

as  technical  superintendent  at  E.  I.  duPont 
deNemours  &  Co.,  Fairfield,  Conn. 


Forging  for  the 
new  generation  of 
turbine  engines 


Wyman  Gordon's  mechanical/metallurgical  skills 
have  allowed  designers  and  fabricators  to  stretch 
the  level  of  turbine  technology— on  land,  on  the  sea 
and  in  the  air. 

Wyman  Gordon  will  be  producing  the  super- 
strength  and  supersize  forgings  needed  as  land- 
based  gas  turbines  take  the  next  giant  step  into 
their  "new  generation." 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS 


Where  Are  You? 


The  Alumni  Association  tries  to  keep  track 
of  all  WPI  alumni,  but  10,600  people  make 
for  a  lot  of  moving  around,  and  we  don't 
a/ways  hear  about  it,  and  that  means  that  a 
sizable  number  of  alumni  aren't  getting  the 
Journal  or  Newsbriefs.  Last  April  we  ran  a 
list  of  some  of  the  people  for  whom  we 
didn't  have  addresses,  and  this  issue  com- 
pletes the  listing.  Please  help  us  if  you 
know  the  current  whereabouts  of  any  of 
these  alumni. 


Philip  L.  Barbaccia 
Fred  A.  Carmody 
Frank  J.  DeMarco,  Jr. 
Gerald  Fleit 
Morey  L.  Hodgman 
Robert  L.  Tagen 
George  M.  Cooley 
Ellsworth  R.  Cramer 
Leon  Hoogasian 
Mehmet  R.  Ozbas 
Ratanshaw  K.  Patel 
Mustafa  T.  Sonmez 
Dick  van  den  Berge 
David  F.  Wright 
John  D.  Writer 
Bernard  G.  Ziobrowski 
Jack  Y.  T.  Kwan 
Edmund  M.  Luzgauskas 
Lysle  P.  Parlett 
Bernard  J.  Petrillo 
Richard  G.  Schmitt 
Stanley  C.  Andrukonis 
Thomas  J.  Bagley 
Karl  H.  Bissell,  Jr. 
Martin  R.  Cohen 
Ernest  E.  Demar 
Nasuh  M.  Malas 
Hugh  R.  McLaughlin 
David  C.  Morrison 
Paul  C.  Murray 
Harold  G.  Rackett 
Philip  R.  Randall 
Dr.  Wu  Mei  Yao 
Framrose  M.  Karani 
James  F.  King 
Haralambos  N.  Kritikos 
Harold  Lake 
Jack  K.  Mackowiak 
William  J.  Mahota,  Jr. 
Robert  S.  Nahas 
Raymond  M.  H.  Naudin 
David  P.  Nygard 
James  E.  Clampett 
Markar  A.  D.  Markarian 
Richard  C.  Oldham 
Antonio  Aranguren 
Paul  A.  Cnossen 
Edwin  J.  Leonard 
Juozas  Orentas 
Herbert  P.  Schoeck,  Jr. 
Benjamin  J.  Thurlow,  Jr. 
Thomas  E.  Weber 
Santo  M.  Bramande 
James  F.  Fournier 
Thordur  Grondal 
Augusto  Ramirez  Barrera 
Michael  Spiegel 
Benjamin  G.  Uy 
Roger  R.  Billings 
John  F.  Daly 


1950 
1950 
1950 
1950 
1950 
1950 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1951 
1952 
1952 
1952 
1952 
1952 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1953 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1954 
1955 
1955 
1955 
1956 
1956 
1956 
1956 
1956 
1956 
1956 
1957 
1957 
1957 
1957 
1957 
1957 
1958 
1958 


Frank  K.  Lind 
Richard  E.  Lorenz 
Nicholas  S.  Petralias 
Dr.  Sherman  K.  Poultney 
Frank  A.  Seidel 
John  A.  Beede 
Alan  E.  Benson 
Roberto  Jaramillo,  Jr. 
James  W.  Mahoney 
Davis  C.  McLeod 
Robert  W.  Milik,  Jr. 
Harvey  J.  Rosenfeld 
Joshua  C.  Alpern 
Henry  W.  Brandt 
Arthur  D.  Brook 
Dr.  Douglas  E.  Bryant 
William  M.  Cannon 
Gungor  Dagistanli 
Capt.  Joseph  S.  Kaye 
Edward  D.  McGrath 
Kenneth  Roberts 
Peter  H.  Schneider 
Maung  T.  Swe 
Derin  K.  Turkomer 
Ara  Tutunjian 
Lt.  J.  Warren  Alford 
George  R.  Bolduc 
Kayhan  Bord 
Eduardo  Cruz 
Terry  W.  Donovan 
James  R.  Duca 
Suat  Gonen 
James  Kachadorian 
John  W.  Kappel 
Swang  Lee-Aphon 
Richard  A.  Levendusky 
Russell  C.  Lockwood,  Jr. 
Thomas  P.  Lopresti 
George  Matassov 
Maung  T.  Maung 
Dr.  Timothy  C.  Meyers,  Jr. 
Gordon  B.  Phillips 
Husein  Y.  Pothiawala 
Donald  E.  Schaaf 
Frank  E.  Thomas 
Donald  W.  Wilmot 
Maung  N.  Win 
Haines  J.  Boyle 
Robert  D.  Britton 
Mehmet  I.  Can 
Victor  B.  Castellani 
Louis  C.  S.  Fernandes 
Stuart  C.  Gillow 
Francis  J.  B.  Goddu 
Ralph  H.  Griswold 
Captain  Jackie  P.  Matteus 
Robert  G.  McDonald 
William  H.  C.  Reinert 
Albert  M.  Rockwell,  Jr. 
Basat  H.  Tilkicioglu 
Walter  M.  Adams 
Paul  Y.  Chan 
Thomas  W.  Greisamer 
Capt.  Herbert  W.  Head 
William  P.  Morrison 
Pundalik  U.  Prabhu 
Gordon  O.  Stearns 
Kendal  B.  Turner 
Harold  H.  Wright 
Stanley  J.  Andrysiak 
Bernard  Baron 
Krishnakumar  V.  Chaudhary 
Alan  K.  Cooper 
Richard  A.  Downe 
George  E.  Hammond 
Peter  C.  Trombi 
Paul  A.  Vajcovec 
John  T.  Apostolos 


1958  Arthur  M.  Dickey 

1958  James  P.  Molloy 

1958  Venkatesh  B.  N.  Rao 

1958  AN  H.  Ustay 

1958  DilipV.  Vora 

1959  Robert  G.  Bertrand 
1959  Satish  H.  Bhatt 
1959  David  M.  Burwen 
1959  Omer  M.  Cavusoglu 
1959  Shailesh  V.  Dave 
1959  Sharad  B.  Doshi 

1959  Roberto  Huyke-Luigi 

1960  Ahmet  G.  Kozanoglu 
1960  Gerald  W.  Lucas 
1960  Ahmet  Mavitan 

1  960  Edgar  P.  Rundlett,  Jr. 

1960  David  E.  Spencer 

1960  Subhashchandra  N.  Amin 

1960  James  R.  Braithwaite 

1960  Athanassios  H.  Canatsoulis 

1960  Fernando  Castillo 

1960  Mahendra  K.  Dave 

1960  Rein  C.  Freeberg 

1960  Philip  R.  Gaudet,  Jr. 

1960  Ronald  S.  Gosk 

1961  Richard  C.  Graham 
1961  John  P.  Keir 
1961  Mitchell  P.  Koziol 
1961  Leonard  J.  Lamberti 
1961  Alan  E.  Larson 

1961  Mohmedjarid  M.  Malek 

1961  David  R.  Malley 

1961  Denis  F.  McQuillen 

1961  Ajit  M.  Mody 

1961  Rajendra  M.  Pandya 

1961  Mafatbhai  N.  Patel 

1961  George  W.  Pomfret 

1961  Richard  A.  Shaw 

1961  Vishram  S.  Shinde 

1961  Alan  D.  Wentworth 

1961  Frederick  J.  Eckert 

1961  Robert  J.  Ellis 

1961  Thomas  E.  Fitzpatrick 

1961  John  Richard  Hilyard 

1961  John  D.  Hoyt 

1961  Gerald  G.  Junevicus 

1961  Sudhir  M.  Mody 

1962  Hareesh  S.  Shah 
1962  Malay  C.  Sheth 
1962  Donald  R.  Shurtleff 
1962  Jas.  P.  Singh 
1962  Robert  L.  Smith 
1962  Robert  J.  Strople 
1962  Warren  Lloyd  Anderson 
1962  Raj  K.  Chauhan 

1962  Dr.  William  G.  Clark 

1962  Steven  H.  Leece 

1962  Robert  J.  Magarian 

1962  James  H.  Morse 

1962  Harivadan  R.  Parikh 

1963  Harshad  K.  Patel 
1963  Rambhai  J.  Patel 
1963  Alfred  F.  Perrone,  Jr. 
1963  James  L.  Richey,  Jr. 
1963  Ronald  P.  Rosadini 
1963  Mohammad  Vakilian 
1963  David  M.  Alden 
1963  Muammer  Arikan 

1963  David  B.  Armitage 

1964  John  F.  Campanella 
1964  Demetrios  H.  Canatsoulis 
1964  Michael  J.  Demoga 
1964  William  A.  Ferranti 
1964  Jagdish  C.  Gupta 

1964  Andrew  Ann-Shong  Huang 

1964  Raymond  J.  Janus 

1964  Stephen  J.  Joyce 

1965  Steven  A.  Lacaire 


1965 
1965 
1965 
1965 
1965 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1966 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1967 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1968 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1969 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 


Praful  V.  Palan 

Rameshchandra  N.  Patel 

Arnon  Rieger 

Harkant  J.  Shah 

Krishna  S.  Tahilani 

Stephen  J.  Barlow 

Jeoffrey  N.  Berg 

Dr.  Sharadchandra  M.  Dave 

Joseph  A.  Dumais 

Robert  P.  Hart 

Chul  Kim 

Joseph  C.  Landwehr 

Bruce  E.  Leffingwell 

Richard  F.  Lukas 

William  P.  Mulloy 

John  G.  Parillo 

Mahendrakumar  K.  Patel 

Donald  B.  Seaton 

Paul  R.  Smith 

Lawrence  J.  Sniegoski 

Francis  Soares 

Martin  H.  Wolf 

Gary  Lee  Dunkleberger 

Chandrakant  H.  Kansagra 

Paul  Kelley 

Sudhir  P.  Patel 

Sureshchandra  N.  Patel 

Bertrand  A.  Pinel-Darrieux 

Alain  Roux 

Joyce  L.  Caplovich 

Mon-Her  Chen 

Vinod  K.  Sharma 

Sammy  G.  Shina 

Manubhai  G.  Thakkar 

Francis  W.  Yanuskiewicz 


1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1970 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1971 
1972 
1972 
1972 
1972 
1972 
1972 
1972 
1973 
1973 
1973 
1973 
1973 
1973 


Dr.  Cohen's  Slime  Molds 


1957 


Dr.  CHARLES  A.  TYSON  is  project  associate 
at  the  Institute  for  Enzyme  Research,  Madi- 
son, Wis.  .  .  .  D.  CARL  WEBSTER  now 
serves  as  the  director  of  program  manage- 
ment at  Army  Tactical  Data  Systems 
(ARTADS),  Fort  Monmouth,  N.J.  Formerly 
he  had  been  with  the  U.S.  Army  Satellite 
Communications  Agency  at  the  same  facility. 


1958 


WILLIAM  J.  O'NEIL  was  recently  appointed 
service  manager-automation,  New  Jersey 
and  Atlantic  Districts,  for  General  Electric's 
Installation  and  Service  Engineering  Depart- 
ment. He  joined  G.E.  as  a  sales  engineer  in 
West  Lynn,  Mass.  In  1966  he  transferred  to 
the  Electric  Utility  Automation  Sales  Opera- 
tion in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  as  a  sales  applica- 
tion engineer.  By  1969  he  had  become  an 
automation  sales  engineer  in  the  Power 
Generation  Sales  Division  in  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  NORMAN  J.  TAUPEKA,  after  having 
accepted  a  new  position  as  electronics 
engineer  with  the  project  manager,  Army 
Tactical  Data  Systems  (ARTADS)  in  1971, 
has  since  been  awarded  the  Outstanding 
Performance  Rating  for  two  consecutive 
years.  He  has  been  instrumental  in  furthering 
the  Army's  goal  of  automating  the  Field 
'  Artillery  through  the  development  of  the 
Tactical  Fire  Direction  System.  Previously  he 
had  been  with  the  Communications/Auto- 


Dr.  MORREL  H.  COHEN,  '47,  Louis 
Block  Professor  of  Physics  and 
Theoretical  Biology  at  the  University 
of  Chicago,  is  working  with  a  slime 
mold  called  Dictyostelium  discoide- 
um,  whose  way  of  life  may  help 
scientists  discover  secrets  of  cell 
differentiation  in  all  life  forms. 

The  cycle  of  this  fascinating  mold 
begins  when  a  spore  lands  in  a 
suitable  warm,  moist  place.  After  the 
case  softens,  a  speck  of  living  tissue 
emerges  and  enlarges  into  an  amoeba 
(a  single,  mobile,  unwalled  living 
cell),  which  immediately  starts 
engulfing  nearby  bacteria.  The  tiny 
amoebae  divide  into  identical 
daughter  cells  which  keep  on 
dividing  until  all  the  available 
bacteria  are  devoured,  a  process 
which  takes  about  eight  hours. 

At  the  onset  of  starvation,  certain 
key  members  of  the  group  begin  to 
signal  by  releasing  a  few  molecules 
of  a  chemical  called  cyclic  adenosine 
monophosphate  (cAMP)  from  their 
surfaces.  When  the  cAMP  reaches 
neighboring  cells,  two  things 
happen.  The  neighbors  repeat  the 
signal  and  in  about  15  seconds  they 
start  to  move  toward  the  original 
source  in  a  jerky  fashion.  Initially  the 
cell  can  do  this  only  once  in  six 
minutes,  but  later  is  able  to  repeat 
the  process  every  two  minutes. 

Dr.  Cohen's  time-lapse  movies, 
made  through  microscopes,  show 


how  the  cells  stream  inward  in 
swirling  droves  toward  the  source. 
Eventually  the  spiral  "differentiates" 
— it  grows  into  a  mound  with  a 
visible  tip,  which  becomes  the 
control  center  of  the  mass  of  cells. 
A  coating  of  slime  forms  on  the 
mound  and  hardens. 

As  the  mound  starts  to  grow 
upward,  the  tip  rises  and  the  whole 
thing  topples  over  and  crawls.  The 
creature  by  this  time  could  contain 
100,000  cells.  It  is  visible  to  the 
naked  eye  and  looks  almost  like  a 
slug.  As  it  migrates  toward  more 
favorable  living  conditions,  the  tip 
looks  much  like  a  flower  stem,  and 
forms  into  a  blossom-like  ball  of 
spores  setting  the  whole  life  cycle  in 
motion  again. 

Dr.  Cohen's  particular  forte  is 
applying  wave  pattern  equations 
derived  in  physics  to  this  biological 
phenomenon.  Other  researchers 
believe  their  time-lapse  photo- 
graphs of  chick  embryos  show 
similar  wave  action  at  the  time  of 
differentiation.  Perhaps  a  parallel 
can  be  found  in  the  diffusion  of 
chemicals  through  unstirred  liquids 
and  the  spread  of  signal  from  cell  to 
cell  which  will  help  us  to  under- 
stand the  processes  required  in 
forming  a  human  being  from  a 
microscopic  fertilized  egg. 


matic  Data  Processing  Laboratory  in  Fort 
Monmouth,  N.J.  His  present  location  with 
ARTADS  is  also  Fort  Monmouth. 


1959 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  PETER  A.  NELSON 
a  son,  Craig  Stephen,  on  October  14,  1973. 
Craig  has  a  brother,  Scott,  who  is  three.  Pete 
is  a  senior  test  engineer  at  the  Westinghouse 
Electro-Mechanical  Division  at  Cheswick, 
Pa.  He  is  responsible  for  the  testing  of  com- 
mercial and  naval  nuclear  canned-motor 
coolant  pumps  and  control  rod  drive 
mechanisms.  He  has  passed  his  professional 
engineer  registration  exam  in  Pennsylvania 
and  is  already  registered  in  Massachusetts. 
A  member  of  the  Pittsburgh  chapter  of 
PSPE,  he  also  serves  as  treasurer  of  the 
Westmoreland  section  of  ASME. 

ROBERT  G.  CHADWICK  has  been  named 
manufacturing  manager  at  Torrington  Com- 
pany's proposed  new  plant  in  Sylvania, 
Georgia.  He  joined  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co. 
in  1 961  as  a  project  engineer  in  the  bearings 
division.  Soon  after  he  attained  the  level  of 
superintendent  in  local  bearings  production. 
.  .  .  P.  D.  EDWARDS  holds  the  post  of  plant 
manager  at  American-Standard,  Piscataway, 


N.J.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F.  McKEON  works  for 
Farm  Bureau  Insurance  Co.,  Lansing,  Mich. 
.  .  .  ROGER  E.  MILLER  is  studying  to  be  an 
Episcopal  priest  at  Seabury-Western  Theo- 
logical Seminary  in  Evanston,  III JOSEPH 

B.  VIVONA  serves  as  an  administrative 
assistant  for  Fulton  County  in  Atlanta, 
Georgia.  He  received  an  advanced  degree 
from  Georgia  State  last  year. 


1960 


DWIGHT  M.  CORNELL,  an  engineering 
supervisor  for  Bechtel  Power  Corp.,  is 
temporarily  on  special  assignment  in  Water- 
ford,  Conn DAVID  A.  JOHNSON  serves 

as  a  customer  relations  specialist  in  the 
Graphics  Markets  Division  at  Eastman 
Kodak,  Rochester,  H.Y.  .  .  .  NATHANIEL  M. 
JOHNSON  is  employed  byTilton  Electronics 
Corp.,  Winnisquam,  N.H.,  as  plant  manager. 
.  .  .  STEPHEN  LEVY,  chairman  of  the  Ocean 
Township  Environmental  Commission,  has 
been  reelected  president  of  the  statewide 
Association  of   New  Jersey  Environmental 

Commissions WARREN  T.  MUNROE  is 

project  engineer  at  Datametrics,  Inc.,  Wil- 
mington, Mass.  .  .  .  BERNARD  J.  SEA- 
STROM  works  for  GTE  Sylvania,  Inc.,  Need- 


ham,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  CHARLES  A.  STEVENS  is 
assistant  professor  of  industrial  engineering 
at  Virginia  Polytechnic  Institute,  Blacksburg, 
Va.  .  .  .  GEORGE  G.  WILSON  holds  the 
position  of  engineering  manager  for  GTE 
Sylvania,  Needham,  Mass.  ...  Dr.  THOMAS 
F.  ZIMMIE  is  an  assistant  professor  at  RPI, 
School  of  Engineering,  Troy,  N.Y. 


1961 


PETER  D.  BEEKMAN  now  serves  as  market- 
ing representative  at  Itel  Corp.,  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  WAYNE  F.  GALUSHA  is  manager 
of  peripheral  products  at  Data  General, 
Southboro,  Mass G.  LEONARD  JOHN- 
SON has  been  appointed  nuclear  projects 
engineer  at  Northeast  Utilities  in  Berlin, 
Conn.  In  1 961  he  joined  the  Hartford  Electric 
Light  Co.  (now  a  N.U.  subsidiary),  as  a 
mechanical  engineer.  He  transferred  to 
Northeast  in  1966  as  a  project  engineer  for 
the  second  unit  of  the  Millstone  Nuclear 
Power  Station  in  Waterford.  .  .  .  ARTHUR 
W.  KROLL  in  engineering  manager  for 
Edmac  Associates,  Inc.,  East  Rochester,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  FRANK  MARRA  works  as  a  product 
manager  at  Four-Phase  Systems,  Inc., 
Cupertino,  Calif.  .  .  .  EUGENE  R.  MORSE 
serves  as  a  system  performance  specialist 
for  the  Federal  Aviation  Administration  in 
Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  WON  K.  PARK  is  on  the 
board  of  trustees  at  Duk  Sung  Foundation, 
Seoul,  Korea.  .  .  .  Currently  DAVID  W. 
PROSSER  works  as  an  associate  air  pollu- 
tion control  engineer  for  Region  6  at  the 
New  York  State  Dept.  of  Environmental 
Conservation,  Watertown,  N.Y. 


1962 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  WILLIAM  A. 
BRUTSCH  a  son,  David  William,  on  July  1 2, 
1973.  David  has  a  sister,  Melissa,  age  6. 
Bill  is  working  as  a  senior  mechanical 
engineer  with  the  Metropolitan  District 
Commission  in  Boston. 

Maj.  JAY  P.  HOCHSTAINE  is  currently 
stationed  with  the  U.S.  Army  Logistics  Com- 
mand, Ft.  Lee,  Virginia.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
MclNTOSH  has  been  spending  the  past  year 
in  Holland.  .  .  .  PETER  A.  PARRINO  serves 
as  a  senior  engineer  at  Emerson  Electric  Co., 
St.  Louis,  Missouri. 


1963 


STUART  D.  BATSTONE  is  president- 
manager  of  Logos  Bookstore,  Framingham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  D.  DONAHUE,  Jr.,  who 
works  for  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.  as  a  materi- 
als handling  specialist,  currently  resides  in 
Gosforth,  Newcastle-Upon-Tyne  3,  Eng- 
land. .  .  .  RICHARD  A.  GARVAIS  now  holds 
the  position  of  production  superintendent  at 
Corning  Glass  Works  (Electronics  Products 
Division)  in  Wilmington,  N.C.  .  .  .  RALPH 
D.  GELLING  is  a  patent  attorney  with  United 
Shoe  Machinery  Corp.,  Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  . 
FRANCIS  E  KENNEDY,  Jr.,  who  received 
his  PhD  from  RPI  last  year,  is  now  a  post- 


doctoral associate  at  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  ...  Dr. 
ROBERT  E.  MURPHY  has  been  named  the 
director  of  Maryland  Academy  of  Sciences. 
He  will  formulate  plans  for  the  Academy's 
move  in  late  1974  into  the  new  Maryland 
Science  Center  now  under  construction  in 
Baltimore's  Inner  Harbor  Redevelopment 
Area.  Formerly  Dr.  Murphy  was  assistant 
astronomer  at  the  University  of  Hawaii. 
Earlier  he  worked  two  years  as  a  research 
assistant  at  Georgetown,  18  months  as  an 
astronomer  for  the  U.S.  Army  Map  Service, 
and  three  years  as  a  research  assistant  at 
Case  Western  Reserve.  He  joined  the  staff 
at  the  University  of  Hawaii  in  1  969.  .  .  .  Maj. 
DAVID  G.  NEVERS  is  an  instructor  at  the 
U.S.  Army  Engineering  School  and  is 
located  in  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  .  PHILLIP  L. 
PARMENTER  serves  as  a  senior  application 
engineer  at  Fafnir  Bearing  Co.,  New  Britain, 
Conn.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  C.  ZINNO  holds  the 
position  of  manager  of  manufacturing 
planning  at  Industrial  Nucleonics  Corp., 
Columbus,  Ohio. 


1964 


ARTHUR  R.  BODWELL,  now  a  professional 
engineer,  is  employed  by  Damon  G.  Douglas 
Co.  (General  Building  Contractor)  in  New- 
ark, N.J.  .  .  .  RICHARD  R.  BROWN  was 
recently  appointed  advertising/sales  promo- 
tion manager  of  Data  General  Corporation, 
Southboro,  Mass.  He  will  be  responsible  for 
print  advertising  in  concert  with  Scali, 
McCabe,  Sloves,  Inc.,  New  York  City,  for 
collateral  materials,  trade  shows,  exhibits, 
audiovisual  and  direct  mail.  He  joined  the 
firm  in  1970  as  a  public  relations  specialist. 
. . .  RICHARD  G.  CARLE  is  presently  a  senior 
engineer-software,  at  Raytheon  Co.,  Bedford, 
Mass.  .  .  .  RALPH  R.  GERMANN  works  as  a 
pilot  for  Hawaiian  Airlines  at  Honolulu  Inter- 
national Airport.  ...  Dr.  EDWARD  P. 
IACCARINO  is  a  research  engineerfor  ESSO 
Research  &  Engineering  Co.,  Corporate  Re- 
search Labs.,  Linden,  N.J.  .  .  .  U.S.  Air  Force 
Capt.  ROBERT  S.  NAJAKA  has  entered  the 
Air  Force  Institute  of  Technology  (AFIT)  to 
study  toward  a  master's  degree  in  civil 
engineering.  Located  at  Wright- Patterson 
AFB,  Ohio,  AFIT  provides  resident  education 
in  scientific  engineering  and  other  fields. 
Capt.  Najaka  was  commissioned  in  1965 
upon  graduation  from  Officer  Training 
School  at  Lackland  AFB,  Texas. . . .  EUGENE 
E.  NIEMI,  Jr.,  is  an  assistant  professor  at 
Lowell  (Mass.)  Technological  Institute.  .  .  . 
Dr.  MASON  H.  SOMERVILLE  serves  as  a 
professor  of  mechanical  engineering  at  the 
University  of  North  Dakota  in  Grand  Forks. 
.  .  .  DAVID  T.  STONE  is  supervisor  of  oil 
circuit  breaker  development  at  Allis  Chalmers, 
Jackson,  Mississippi. 


1965 


Born:  Recently  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  DAVID  B. 
LUBER  their  second  son,  Peter  Andrew.  In 
addition  to  his  regular  job  at  Bell  Labora- 
tories, Luber  is  now  teaching  part  time  at 
Fairleigh  Dickinson  University,  Teaneck, 
N.J. 


RONALD  H.  CHAND  is  the  new  president 
of  Arsee  Design  &  Mfg.,  Inc.,  Forestville, 
Conn.  The  company  manufactures  sintered 
carbide  products  and  other  power  metal 
products.  .  .  .  NILS  E.  ERICKSON  is  a  vice 
president  at  Dufresne-Henry  Engineering 
Corp.,  North  Springfield,  Vt.  .  .  .  DAVID  W. 
GEIGER  has  been  promoted  to  superin- 
tendent of  pressed  metal  bearings  at  Tor- 
rington  Co.  in  Connecticut.  He  became  a 
bearing  engineering  trainee  in  1965.  Prior 
to  his  latest  advancement  he  was  assistant 
superintendent.  .  .  .  Presently  DONALD  G. 
G  REGOI RE  serves  as  development  engineer- 
manager  at  IBM,  Electronic  Systems  Center, 
Owego,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JAMES  A.  KEITH  is  a 
design  engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  F.  NICKERSON  holds 
the  position  of  R&D  engineer  at  Philco-Ford 
WDL  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif.  .  .  .  PAUL  R. 
PEARSON  is  employed  as  an  analytical 
engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn. 

Dr.  HOWARD  G.  SACHS  serves  as  an 
assistant  professor  at  the  University  of 
Illinois  Medical  School,  Chicago.  .  .  .  VIJAY 
D.  SHETH  is  the  owner  of  Visco  Enterprise, 
a  firm  which  manufactures  coin-operated 
equipment  in  Bombay,  India.  .  .  .  STEVEN 
G.  SUTKER  works  as  a  sales  representative 
at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Fairfield,  N.J. . . . 
EUGENE  G.  SWEENEY,  Jr.,  is  presently  an 
area  engineer  at  E.  I.  DuPont's  Spruance 
Plant,  Richmond,  Va. 


1966 


Married:  PETER  GRAY  IV  to  Miss  Sandra 
N.  Hewitt  in  Highland,  New  York  on 
October  6,  1973.  Mrs.  Gray  is  a  draftsman 
and  her  husband  an  engineer  in  the  engineer- 
ing department  of  New  York  Telephone 
Company,  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.  Pete,  who 
has  his  MSEE  from  Northeastern  University, 
was  formerly  employed  as  a  development 
engineer  at  General  Radio  Company  in 
Concord. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  HEYWARD  S. 
WILLIAMS,  their  first  child,  Hugh  Parry,  on 
September  23,  1973.  Williams  is  presently 
employed  as  chief  engineer  at  LRC,  Inc., 
Hudson,  N.H. 

ROBERT  J.  COATES  is  with  the  Stanley 
Works,  Cheraw,  S.C.  .  .  .  Lt.  JAMES  A. 
COCCI  has  graduated  from  the  Naval  Post 
Graduate  School  in  Monterey,  Calif.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  V.  COLLENTRO  has  been  em- 
ployed by  United  Engineers,  Inc.,  Boston. . . . 
ROBERT  B.  DOLAN  serves  as  a  development 
engineer  at  GTE  Sylvania,  Manchester,  N.H. 
.  .  .  RICHARD  L.  HEALER  is  a  senior  product 
development  engineer  at  the  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Company.  .  .  .  EDWARD  E.  JOHN- 
SON works  as  a  process  engineer  at  Oxford 
Precision,  West  Springfield,  Mass.  He  is  also 
attending  graduate  school  at  Western  New 
England. 

CHARLES  S.  KNOTHE  holds  the  position 
of  supervisor  of  data  processing  at  E.  I. 
duPont  deNemours,  Wilmington,  Delaware. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  PETE  was  recently  named 
foreman  of  the  rear  wheel  bearing  depart- 
ment at  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co.  .  .  .  STAN- 
LEY SCHMIDT  is  plant  engineer  at  Day 
Kimball  Hospital  in  Danielson,  Conn.  .  .  . 
GERARD  A.  TOUPIN  has  been  appointed 


CHECK  OUR  SPECS 

BEFORE  YOU  BUY  THEIR 

4  CHANNEL  RECEIVER. 


Sylvania 


Pioneer 


Sansui 


Fisher 


Harman- 
Kardon 


Marantz 


Model 

Continuous  (RMS) 
Power1 

4  channels 
Stereo  Bridge 

THD  at  rated  output 

IM  Distortion  at 
rated  output 

FM  IHF  Sensitivity 

50  db  signal  to 
noise  ratio 

Capture  Ratio 
Price 


RQ3748 

50Wx4 
125Wx2 

<0.5% 

<0.5% 

1.9m  v 

2.8mv 

1.5db 

$549.952 

'All  powermeasurements  taken  at  120  volts/60  cycles,  8  ohms,  20Hz-20kHz,  all  channels  driven  simultaneously. 
Manufacturer's  suggested  list  price  which  may  be  higher  in  some  areas. 


If  you're  in  the  market  for  four  channel,  you 
already  know  you've  got  to  spend  a  good  bit  of 
cash  for  a  receiver.  So  it'd  be  a  good  idea  to 
spend  a  good  bit  of  time  checking  specs  on 
everything  available  just  to  make  sure  you  get 
the  most  for  your  money. 

To  make  your  search  a  little  easier,  we've 
prepared  the  blank  comparison  chart  above 
with  spaces  for  some  of  the  best-known  brands 
and  most  important  specs.  Just  take  it  with  you 
to  the  store,  fill  it  in,  and  you'll  be  able  to  tell 
at  a  glance  what  you  get  for  what  you  pay. 

We  took  the  liberty  of  filling  in  the  Sylvania 
column  with  specs  forour  RQ3748fourchannel 
receiver.  We  did  it  because  we  know  we're  not 
the  best-known  name  in  four  channel,  and  we 
didn't  want  you  to  overlook  us  for  that  reason. 

Because  we  think  the  RQ3748's  specs 
are  really  worth  remembering. 

50  watts  of  RMS  power  per  channel  at  8 
ohms,  20-20kHz,  with  all  four  channels 
driven.  125  watts  perchannel  in  stereo  bridge 
mode.  A  THD  and  IM  of  less  than  0.5%  at 
rated  output.  An  FM  sensitivity  of  1.9  micro 
volts.  A  discrete  four  channel  receiver  with 


matrix  capabilities  so  you  can  use  either  type  of 
quadraphonic  material.  And  much,  much  more? 

We  can  offer  so  much  because  we  have  so 
much  experience.  We  were  one  of  the  first  in  the 
audio  field.  And  now  we're  applying  all  our  knowl- 
edge, all  our  engineering  skill  to  four  channel. 

Once  you've  proven  to  yourself  which  receiver 
has  the  best  specs,  move  on  down  to  that  last 
line  in  the  chart  and  compare  Sylvania's  price 
with  all  the  others.  Find  out  which  one  gives  the 
most  for  your  money. 

We  feel  pretty  confident  you'll  discover  that 
the  best-known  names  aren't  necessarily  your 
best  buy. 

3So  much  more  that  it  won't  all  fit  here.  So  send  us  a  stamped,  self- 
addressed  envelope  and  we'll  send  you  a  four-page  brochure  on  our 
four  channel  receivers. 


f?iT3  sy  LA/AN  I A 


Sylvania  Entertainment 
Products  Group,  Batavia,  N.Y. 


assistant  superintendent  of  pressed  metal 
bearings  at  Torrington  Co.  in  Connecticut. 
He  started  work  at  Torrington  in  1966  as  a 
bearings  division  engineer.  Later  he  was 
promoted  from  assistant  foreman  to  foreman, 
to  general  foreman  in  three  different  depart- 
ments in  less  than  three  years. 


1967 


EUGENE  J.  BALDRATE  is  a  senior  engineer 
at  Southern  New  England  Telephone  Co., 
New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  .  Currently  ROGER  V. 
BARTHOLOMEW,  S.J.  is  at  Spring  Hill 
College,  Mobile,  Alabama.  .  .  .  HUGO  W. 
CROFT  serves  as  a  captain  in  the  U.S.  Army 
and  is  located  in  Palo  Alto,  Calif.  .  .  . 
FRANCIS  L.  DACRI  works  as  a  senior 
engineer  at  E.  I.  duPont  deNemours  &  Co., 
Old  Hickory,  Tenn.  .  .  .  PETER  J.  DICKER- 
SON  has  joined  the  Badger  Co.,  Cambridge, 

Mass IOSEPH  F.  GOULART  is  with  the 

Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn,  Mich.  .  .  . 
Presently  RONALD  A.  JOLICOEUR  is  a  self- 
employed  manufacturer's  representative  in 
Worcester.  He  sells  industrial  ventilation  and 
air  pollution  control  equipment. 

LEON  E.  KRALS  is  now  senior  materials 
engineer  for  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn....  ROBERT  J.  LOCKWOOD, 
a  system  engineer  for  Raytheon,  Wayland, 
Mass.,  currently  provides  system  consultant 
services  to  the  FAA  at  Jacksonville  Air  Route 
Traffic  Control  Center.  .  .  .  ROBERT  R. 
MICHELIN  is  senior  associate  engineer  at 
IBM  in  Poughkeepsie,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ARNOLD  R. 
MILLER  holds  the  post  of  general  manager 
at  Electro-Craft,  Inc.,  Dorchester,  Mass.  Pre- 
viously he  was  senior  sales  engineer  for 
Eagle  Signal,  Davenport,  Iowa.  Recently  he 
published  "The  Automation  Dilemma: 
Choosing  a  Control  Technology"  in  Chilton's 
Instruments  &  Control  Systems.  He  has  also 
presented  papers  at  IEEE,  ISA,  and  SPI 
conferences  during  the  past  few  years. 

PAUL  J.  MILNE,  who  recently  received 
his  PhD  from  Kansas  State,  is  now  employed 
at  Merrimack  College,  North  Andover,  Mass. 
.  .  .  LEONARD  E.  ODELL  has  joined  the 
Hartford  Insurance  Group's  life  actuarial  de- 
partment as  an  associate  actuary.  He  will  be 
responsible  for  the  development  of  new 
individual  life  insurance  products.  Earlier  he 
was  with  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Com- 
pany of  America  and  Aetna  Life  and  Casualty 
where  he  was  an  assistant  actuary.  In  1971 
he  became  a  Fellow  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries.  .  .  .  JAMES  E.  SHEA  is  a  systems 
engineer  at  Raytheon  in  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
NEIL  M.  SHEA  has  been  appointed  a  physics 
instructor  at  Holyoke  (Mass.)  Community 
College.  Currently  he  is  working  toward  his 
PhD  at  RPI  where  he  also  earned  his 
master's  degree.  .  .  PAUL  G.  TRUDEL  works 
as  a  senior  engineer  at  Bechtel  Power  Corp., 
Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  ELLIOT  F.  WHIPPLE  is 
a  first-year  MBA  student  at  Wharton  School 
of  Finance  (University  of  Pennsylvania)  in 
Philadelphia. 


Odell,  '67 


1968 


Married:  ROBERT  J.  GALLO  to  Miss 
Candace  Costantino  on  November  3,  1973 
in  Torrington,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a 
registered  nurse  at  Charlotte  Hungerford 
Hospital.  The  groom  is  a  civil  engineer  with 
the    State    of    Connecticut    Public    Utilities 

Commission DAVID  B.  MORRIS  to  Miss 

E.  Diane  Francis  on  October  7,  1973  in 
Upton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Morris  is  a 
kindergarten  teacher  in  Lancaster.  Her 
husband  is  a  process  engineer  at  Foster 
Grant  in  Leominster,  Mass. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  THOMAS  J. 
PERARO  a  son,  Christopher  Thomas,  on 
October  6,  1973.  Tom,  who  is  with  Aetna 
Life  and  Casualty,  Hartford,  Conn.,  is  work- 
ing on  his  MBA  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut. 

MICHAEL  C.  ANNON  is  with  Stone  & 
Webster,  Boston.  .  .  .  ALBERT  J.  ATTER- 
MEYER  works  at  Norfolk  Naval  Shipyard, 
Portsmouth,  Va.  .  .  .  ROBERTA.  BALDUCCI 
will  be  assistant  to  the  chief  engineer  at 
Torrington  Company's  proposed  new  plant 
in  Sylvania,  Georgia.  He  has  worked  as  an 
industrial  engineer  for  Torrington  (Conn.) 
Co.  since  1968.  .  .  .  PAUL  G.  BEAUDET  is 
office  engineer  at  J.  A.  Jones  Construction 
Co.,  Charlotte,  N.C. . . .  DAVID  P.  CROCKETT 
serves  as  a  sales  engineer  for  Buffalo  Forge 
Company  in  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  RONALD 
E.  DANIELSON  is  a  division  manager  at 
Danielson  Flowers,  Shrewsbury,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JEFFREY  A.  DECKER  works  as  a  senior 
appraiser-real  estate  investments  at  Pruden- 
tial Insurance  Co.,  New  York  City. 

Presently  H.  PAXSON  GIFFORD  is 
supervisor-International  Fuel  Oil  Move- 
ments for  Texaco,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
STEVEN  C.  HALSTEDT,  who  graduated 
from  Amos  Tuck  School  (Dartmouth)  last 
year,  is  now  a  securities  analyst  for  Travelers 
Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Lt/jg 
RICHARD  W.  HEDGE  is  currently  stationed 
with  the  Coast  Guard  in  New  Orleans, 
Louisiana.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  F.  HILYARD  serves 
as  director  of  corporate  publications  at 
Safety  Electronics,  Inc.,  Durham,  N.C.  .  .  . 
FRANK  R.  JENSEN  is  a  technical  support 
specialist  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  May- 
nard,  Mass. .  . .  ROBERT  G.  KOHM  holds  the 
position  of  group  supervisor  in  production  at 
DuPont  Pigments  Dept.,  Newark,  N.J.  .  .  . 
ROUMEN  B.  KORDOF,  an  associate  of  the 
Denver  branch  office  of  Connecticut  General 
Life  Insurance  Company,  has  qualified  for 
Honor  Table,  the  company's  highest  honor 
for  its  field  sales  representatives.  Honor 
Table  membership  is  awarded  to  those  whose 
professional  skill  in  serving  clients  places 
them  in  the  top  10  per  cent  nationally  in 
performance  among  the  company's  career 
agents.  Ron's  specialty  is  in  overall  financial 
planning  design  for  corporate  business 
owners. 


GEORGE  H.  LANDAUER  is  president  of 
GDC  Medical  Electronics,  Richmond  Hill, 
N.Y.  GDC  is  the  instrumentation  division  of 
Generator  Development  Corp.  .  .  .  RICHARD 
H.  LANG  works  as  associate  maintenance 
engineer  at  New  England  Power  Co., 
Lebanon,  N.H.  .  .  .  ROBERT  MEADER  now 
serves  as  a  senior  planner  in  the  Fall  River 
(Mass.)  Planning  Dept.  Previously  he  was  a 
planning  specialist  at  Fall  River  Model  Cities 
Agency.  He  and  his  wife,  Betty,  are  the 
parents  of  a  son,  Robert,  age  2  %.  ,  .  . 
GEOFFREY  P.  TAMULONIS  is  with  ITT  in 
Ramsey,  New  Jersey. 


1969 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Jeffrey  C.  Knapp 
their  first  child,  a  son,  Lindsey  Clark,  on 
August  1,  1973.  Jeff,  who  is  with  LTP 
Enterprises,  recently  designed  and  helped 
to  build  the  Knapps'  new  home  in  Rye,  N.H. 

JAMES  P.  ATKINSON  works  for  the 
Metropolitan  Area  Planning  Council  in  Bos- 
ton....DONALD  E.  CASPERSON  is  present- 
ly using  the  new  LAMPF  accelerator  facility 
at  Los  Alamos,  N.M.,  for  research  leading 
to  his  PhD  in  physics  at  Yale.  .  .  .  JOHN  E. 
CONNELL,  Jr.,  serves  as  an  analyst  pro- 
grammer at  Aetna  Insurance  Co.,  Hartford, 

Conn JOHN  B.  CZAJKOWSKI  is  a  staff 

assistant  at  Bergere,  Providence,  R.I.  Last 
year  he  received  his  MBA  from  Western 
New  England  College,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  T.  DOE  works  at  State  Mutual 
Life  Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  JOSEPH 
E.  DORAN,  Jr.,  recently  received  his  BSEE 
from  the  University  of  New  Haven.  He  is 
vice  president  of  Doran  &  Johnson  Mfg. 
Corp.,  North  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  JAMES 
W.  FOLEY  is  with  Bell  Labs.,  Murray  Hill,  N.J. 
.  .  .  DOUGLAS  J.  GEORGE  is  currently  with 
George  Associates,  Inc.,  Needham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  STANLEY  J.  GOLDMAN  lectures  on 
constitutional  law  and  civil  rights  at  North- 
eastern University,  Boston.  .  .  .  JOEL  P. 
GREENE  has  become  associated  with 
Anderson  &  Pentland,  Attorneys  at  Law, 
Worcester. 

PETER  T.  GROSCH  is  studying  for  his 
MBA  at  Emory  University,  Atlanta,  Ga.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  D.  HARDY,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of 
senior  design  engineer  at  National  Steel, 
San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  .  Presently  RICHARD 
H.  GURSKE  is  project  manager  at  VTN 
Consol,  Inc.,  Irvine,  Calif.  .  .  .  THOMAS  M. 
GWAZDAUSKAS  works  for  Artisan  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  Waltham,  Mass.  ...  Air  Products 
&  Chemicals,  Inc.,  employs  ARTHUR  T. 
KATSAROS  as  a  senior  process  engineer  in 
Allentown,  Pa.  .  .  .  KENNETH  W.  KOPKA  is 
now  general  foreman  of  grinding  at  Torring- 
ton Co.,  Torrington,  Conn.  Formerly  he  was 
assistant  foreman  of  secondary  operations. 
He  joined  the  company  in  1 969  as  a  bearing 
manufacturing  engineer.  .  .  .  DANIEL  P. 
LORUSSO  works  in  computer  design  at 
General  Electric,  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

ERIC  H.  NICKERSON  holds  the  position 
of  senior  design  engineer,  connector  prod- 
ducts,  at  Texas  Instruments,  Inc.,  Attleboro, 
Mass PAUL  V.  NORKEVICIUS  is  study- 
ing for  his  MBA  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts. .  .  .  BIDYUT  K.  RATH  serves  as  a 
designer  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  .  .  . 
DONALD  W.  RULE  teaches  as  an  assistant 


Engineer,  which 
do  you  want... 
field  or  desk? 

Westinghouse 
offers  both. 


Some  of  you  fellows  want  to  be 
where  it's  invented.  Near  a  com- 
puter and  a  design  desk.  Fine. 
Westinghouse  has  one  of  the 
largest  R&D  operations  in  the 
country.  And  1 1 2  plants  here,  74 
abroad. 

But  a  lot  of  you  want  to  get  into  the 
field.  Fine.  We're  in  everything 


from  power  plant  startups  to  elec- 
tronic systems  trouble-shooting. 
It's  an  extensive,  diversified  list. 
Hardhat  country. 
You  can  be  sure  if  it's 
Westinghouse.  Write  to  George 
Garvey,  Westinghouse  Education 
Center,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  15221. 
An  equal  opportunity  employer. 


(§)  Westinghouse 


at  the  University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  J.  SCOTT  is  a  planner  for  the  city 
of  Virginia  Beach,  Va.  Recently  he  received 
his  MRP  from  Cornell.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  W. 
SKWIRA  works  as  a  proposition  engineer 
for  General  Electric  Co.,  Steam  Turbine/ 
Generator    Marketing    Dept.,    Schenectady, 

N.Y DAVID  W.  SWENSON  is  employed 

as  a  development  engineer  at  Western 
Electric  Co.,  North  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  F.  TAYLOR  works  for  General 
Electric  Co.,  Lynn,  Mass. 


1970 


Married:  RICHARD  DIAMOND  to  Miss 
Barbara  Marten  on  October  21  in  Plainview, 
LI.,  New  York.  A  graduate  of  BU,  the 
bride  is  a  speech  therapist  in  the  Uxbridge 
(Mass.)  school  system.  The  bridegroom  is 
affiliated  with  Peter  Lumber  Corp.,  Worces- 
ter  GEORGE  L.  FISLER  and  Miss  Shirley 

J.  Shove  in  Milford,  Connecticut  on  Novem- 
ber 2, 1  973.  Mrs.  Fisler  is  a  senior  at  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College,  New  Haven.  Her 
husband  is  a  computer  programmer  analyst 
at  Bridgeport  Hospital. 

Born:  To  Lt.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  JOLLS,  a 
son,  John  Richard,  on  November  18,  1973 
in  Honolulu.  Jack  missed  the  great  event 
since  he  sailed  November  8  on  the  USS 
Seadragon  for  an  extended  duty  tour  in  the 
Pacific. 

CHARLES  J.  ANDRESON  serves  as  a 
graduate  assistant  in  WPI'S  Civil  Engineer- 
ing Department. .. .  ROBERTA.  ANSCHUTZ 
is  with  G.E.'s  Knolls  Atomic  Power  Lab., 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOHN  T.  BOK  works 
as  a  sales  engineer  at  Allen  Mfg.  Co.,  Bloom- 
field,  Conn JOHN  P.  DEMASE  received 

his  MSME  from  RPI  last  year.  .  .  .  BERNARD 
J.  DODGE  has  been  named  associate 
projects  administrator  at  WPI.  Recently  he 
returned  to  this  country  after  spending  two 
years  with  the  Peace  Corps  in  Sierra  Leone, 
South  Africa,  where  he  served  as  a  secondary 
school  mathematics  teacher  and  librarian. 
.  .  .  JOHN  W.  GEILS,  Jr.,  and  his  nationally- 
known  J.  Geils  Band,  performed  at  Boston 
Garden  last  November.  .  .  .  DONALD  W. 
HARDING  works  for  Granger  Contracting 
Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROBERT  R.  MATTSON, 
who  received  his  MSME  from  WPI  last  year, 
is  presently  a  team  manager  at  Charmin 
Paper  Products,  Mehoopany,  Pa. 


Smialek,  '70 


CHESTER  J.  NAPIKOSKI  is  with 
EBASCO  Services,  Inc.,  Glenrock,  Wyoming. 
.  .  .  RANDY  SABLICH  serves  as  contract 
manager  at  Grumman  Aerospace  Corp., 
Bethpage,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  L  SMIALEK, 
supervising  engineer,  Kemper  Insurance 
Group  of  Rolling  Meadows,  III.,  was  recently 
recognized  at  the  Insurance  Institute  of 
America  National  Annual  Awards  Luncheon 
in  Chicago  for  having  achieved  the  highest 
grade  among  all  those  who  took  the  Insti- 
tute's Management  Studies  41  examination 
during  the  May  1973  examination  series. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  W.  SOFFELL,  who  is  located 
in  Parma  Heights,  Ohio,  is  currently  a 
development  engineer  for  the  Carbon  Prod- 
ucts Division  of  Union  Carbide  Corporation. 
.  .  .  JAMES  H.  VerGOW  works  as  a  manu- 
facturing engineer  at  Texas  Instruments, 
Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  PAUL  C.  WILSON  is  a 
graduate  assistant  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  in  the  Metallurgy  Dept. 


1971 


Married:  BRUCE  W.  BENNETT  and  Miss 
Sadie  E.  Taylor  on  October  20,  1973  in 
Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Bennett  graduated  from 
South  Kingston  High  School.  After  attend- 
ing WPI  her  husband  graduated  from  Plus 
School  of  Business  in  Providence.  .  .  . 
CARLTON  E.  CRUFF  to  Miss  Linda  M. 
Scieller  on  October  19,  1973  in  Waterbury, 
Connecticut.  ROBERT  PACE  served  as  best 
man  and  CREGG  McWEENEY  was  an  usher. 
The  bride  graduated  from  the  University  of 
Connecticut.  The  groom  is  serving  in  the 
U.S.  Army  Reserve.  .  .  .  GLENN  A.  TUOMI 
and  Miss  Debra  A.  Gavin  in  Vernon,  Con- 
necticut on  October  1 3,  1  973.  Mrs.  Tuomi  is 
a  Becker  graduate  and  also  attended  Cardinal 
Cushing  College,  Brookline,  Mass.  The 
bridegroom  is  employed  by  the  Barry 
Division  of  Wright  Line,  Inc.,  Worcester. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


JOSEPH  P.  BELLINO  is  with  General 
Electric  Co.,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PAUL  J. 
BIENICK  works  at  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
neering Corp.,  Boston.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  J. 
CALCAGNO  has  been  employed  as  a  securi- 
ties analyst  for  Irving  Trust  Co.,  New  York 

City ARTHUR  A.  JACKMAN  teaches  at 

Keefe  Tech.,  Framihgham,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN 
C.  JOHNSON  is  chief  of  the  bioinstrumen- 
tation  branch,  Bioengineering  Division,  U.S. 
Army  Aeromedical  Research  Laboratory, 
Fort  Rucker,  Alabama.  .  .  .  PHILIP  M. 
JOHNSON  was  recently  employed  as  a 
coatings  development  chemist  for  optical 
products  at  Omnitech,  Inc.  (a  subsidiary  of 
Gentex  Corp.).  .  .  .  2/Lt.  TIMOTHY  C. 
JOHNSON  has  completed  a  nine-week  air 
defense  artillery  officer  basic  course  at  the 
Army  Air  Defense  School,  Ft.  Bliss,  Texas. 
Last  year  he  received  his  MS  degree  from 
Ohio  State  University  in  Columbus. 

DOUGLAS  A.  KEILY  now  works  at  Com- 
bustion Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor,  Conn. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  G.  LIGHT  received  his  MS  in 
chemical  engineering  last  year  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  California  in  Berkeley.  He  is  now 

working  for  his  PhD CARL  T.  NELSON 

is  a  development  engineer  at  3M  Company, 
St.  Paul,  Minn.  Recently  he  received  his 
BSME  from  Kansas  State  University.  .  .  . 
DONALD  P.  ST.  MARIE  works  for  Camp, 
Dresser  &  McKee,  Boston.  .  .  .  ROBERT  M. 
SINICROPE  teaches  mathematics  at  Milton 
Academy,  Milton,  Mass.  .  .  .  MARTYN  H. 
STRONG  is  with  KAPL,  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
.  .  .  CALEB  H.  THOMAS,  Jr.,  serves  as  a 
design  engineer  at  Formation,  Inc.,  Cherry 
Hill,  N.J. 


1972 


Married:  RICHARD  L.  LOGAN  and  Miss  C 
Lorraine  Mullaly  on  August  18,  1973  in 
Worcester.  Mrs.  Logan  is  a  graduate  of 
Worcester  State  College  and  teaches  in 
Framingham,  Mass.  The  groom  is  a  graduate 
student  at  Northeastern  University. ...  JOHN 
C.  MODZELEWSKI  to  Miss  Christine  Ann 
Sorenson  on  October  27,  1973  in  Manches- 
ter, New  Hampshire.  The  bride  graduated 
from  St.  Vincent  Hospital  School  of  Nursing. 
She  is  a  registered  nurse  at  St.  Vincent.  Her 
husband  is  employed  by  the  Department  of 
Public  Works  in  Worcester. 

KENNETH  C.  ARIFIAN,  EDWARD  C. 
CLUKEY,  BRUCE  M.  ETESON,  DAVID 
HAYHURST,  JAMES  V.  LACY,  and  ROY 
LINDBLAD  are  all  doing  graduate  work  at 

WPI CHARLES  L.  DESCHENES  is  with 

Frank  Morrow  Co.,  Providence,  R.I.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  J.  EMERY  serves  as  a  process 
engineer  at  E.  l.duPontdeNemours,  Camden, 
S.C.  ..  THEODORE  A.  FREDERICKS  is  em- 
ployed as  a  mechanical  design  engineer  at 
Collins  Radio  Co.,  Richardson,  Texas.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  D.  GOODHUE  teaches  chemistry 
at  North  Chelmsford  (Mass.)  High  School. 
. . .  VAHE  KRIKORIAN  worksfor  Xerox  Corp., 
Webster,  N.Y.  .  .  .  PAUL  LACOUTURE  is  an 
associate  engineer  at  New  England  Tele- 
phone in  Boston. . . .  Raytheon  Co.,  Waltham, 
Mass.,  employs  DAVID  J.  McGORTY  as  an 
associate  engineer. 


! 


1974  ENGINEERI 


Naturally,  when  you  settle  down  to  a  career,  you  want 
to  do  it  where  you'll  also  enjoy  living.  That's  Sikorsky 
in  Stratford,  Connecticut,  home  of  the  famous 
American  Shakespeare  Festival,  set  amid  woody, 
hilly  country  near  Long  Island  Sound,  within  easy 
access  of  New  York  City. 

And  naturally,  you  want  to  be  where  your  long-term 
career  prospects  are  excellent.  That's  Sikorsky  too. 
We're  in  the  forefront  of  advanced  technology  for 
VTOL  (Vertical  Take-Off  &  Landing)  aircraft,  at  a  time 
when  these  remarkable  craft  are  being  increasingly 
utilized  commercially— in  construction,  short-haul 
transportation,  exploration,  film  making,  firefighting, 
traffic  control  and  other  areas. 

Yes,  VTOL  technology  is  definitely  a  field  of  the  future 
—yours,  if  you  like.  At  Sikorsky  you'll  enjoy  a 
stimulating  professional  environment  where  your 
ability  is  encouraged,  recognized  and  rewarded, 


where  your  career  can  really  take  off. 

We're  now  offering  opportunities— at  highly 
competitive  starting  salaries  and  excellent  benefits— 
for  Aeronautical,  Mechanical  and  Electrical 
engineers  in  the  following  areas: 

DESIGN  (aircraft  structures;  propulsion  systems; 
transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight  control 
systems;  electrical/electronic  systems). 

TEST  AND  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads,  dynamic, 
stress,  mass  properties,  reliability/maintainability; 
electrical/electronic  systems;  technical  computing). 

MANUFACTURING  ENGINEERING  (planning, 
methods,  processes). 

For  further  information,  see  your  Placement  Office 
for  our  brochure  and  the  date  of  our  forthcoming 
campus  interviews.  Or  write  directly  to 
Mr.  Leo  J.  Shalvoy,  Professional  Placement. 


Sikorsky  Rircraft 

STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT    06602 

An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M  &  F 


U 


DIVISION  OF  UNITED  AIRCRAFT  CORP. 


mm 


FRANK  D.  McMAHON  works  at  Good- 
kind  &  O'Dea  in  Clifton,  N.J.  .  .  .  Currently 
JOHN  A.  MINASIAN  is  a  sales  engineer  at 
Data  General  Corp.,  Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  A.  OLIVER  holds  the  position  of 
research  scientist  at  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dear- 
born, Mich.  .  .  .  RANDALL  D.  PARTRIDGE 
is  with  Mobil  Research  &  Development 
Corp.,Paulsboro,N.J..  EDWARD  SCHRULL 
is  studying  for  his  MS  in  nuclear  engineering 
at  the  University  of  Arizona  in  Tucson.  .  .  . 
Lt.  STEPHEN  A.  WILKINSON  commands  a 
Water  Purification  Detachment  for  the  U.S. 
Army  Corps  of  Engineers  at  Fort  Bragg,  N.C. 


1973 


Married:  DENNIS  R.  BELIVEAU  to  Miss 
Judith  E.  Barcheski  in  Fairfield,  Connecticut 
on  November  3,  1973.  Mrs.  Beliveau  was  a 
secretary  with  Harvey  Hubbell,  Inc.,  in 
Bridgeport.  Her  husband  is  a  manufacturing 
engineer  with  G.E.  in  Auburn,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
DAVID  S.  BOWEN  to  Miss  Jeannine  M. 
LaBrake  in  Portland,  Me.,  on  September  29, 
1  973.  The  bride  has  been  employed  by  W.  T. 
Grant  Co.  The  groom  works  for  Travelers 
Insurance  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  CHRIS- 
TOPHER A.  BRODERS  and  Miss  Bonnie  J. 
Sandy  on  September  22,  1973  in  Shrews- 
bury, Massachusetts.  The  bride  was  a  bank 
teller  at  Worcester  County  National  Bank. 
The  bridegroom  works  at  Texas  Instruments, 
Inc.,  Attleboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  LEO  BUCH- 
AKJIAN,  Jr.,  to  Miss  Elaine  H.  Triggs  on 
October  20  in  North  Brookfield,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Buchakjian  is  a  registered  nurse 
in  the  Surgical  Intensive  Care  Unit  at  the 
Memorial  Hospital,  Worcester.  Her  husband 
is  studying  for  his  MSME  at  MIT. 

Married:  MARK  J.  CICHOCKI  and  Miss 
Kathy  L.  Beardsley  on  October  20,  1973  in 
Bridgeport,  Connecticut.  The  bride  attended 
the  University  of  Bridgeport.  The  bridegroom 
is  production  control  administrator  with  the 
General  Electric  Co.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  De- 
COLLIBUS  to  Miss  Cheryl  Nilles  on  Novem- 
ber 10,  1973  in  Sudbury,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  DeCollibus  is  a  Becker  graduate.  Her 
husband  is  an  industrial  engineer  at  Raytheon 


in  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  C. 
LEVITSKY  and  Miss  Marcia  A.  Rossik  in 
Auburn,  Massachusetts  on  October  20, 
1973.  Mrs.  Levitsky  was  employed  in  the 
IBM  department  of  Johnson  Steel  &  Wire 
Co.  The  groom  works  for  General  Dynamics 

Corp.,  Groton,  Conn JOEL  S.  LOITHER- 

STEIN  and  Miss  Dianne  B.  Boyer  last  fall  in 
Brookline,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  Northeastern  University,  De- 
partment of  Allied  Health.  Her  husband  is 
doing  graduate  work  at  WPI. 

Married:  WILLIAM  H.  MAWDSLEY  and 
Miss  Beverly  Ann  Carr  on  August  4,  1  973  in 
Shrewsbury,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Mawdsley 
is  a  senior  at  Worcester  State  College.  The 
bridegroom  is  an  actuarial  assistant  at  State 
Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  G.  NELSON,  Jr.,  to  Miss  Janice  A. 
Kazak  on  October  20  in  Springfield,  Vermont. 
Mrs.  Nelson,  a  secretary,  graduated  from 
Becker.  Her  husband  is  a  graduate  student  at 

WPI EDWARD  F.  PECZYNSKI,  Jr.,  and 

Miss  Christine  M.  Laskoske  in  Meriden, 
Connecticut  on  November  3,  1973.  Mrs. 
Peczynski  teaches  in  the  Meriden  public 
schools.  Mr.  Peczynski  is  an  assistant  engi- 
neer at  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co.  in 
Berlin.  .  .  .  ROBERT  S.  VEITH  to  Miss 
Lucinda  Ann  Stirlen  on  September  1,  1973 
in  Wilbraham,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
student  at  Springfield  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  The  groom  is  employed  by  Thomas 
Taylor  and  Sons  in  Hudson. 

BRUCE  J.  BAKER  is  a  process  engineer 
at  DuPont  in  Towanda,  Pa.  .  .  .  JAMES  R. 
BUELL  serves  as  a  sales  service  representa- 
tive at  Wyman  Gordon,  Grafton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
DAVID  L.  BURKEY,  THOMAS  A.  MIKO- 
LINNAS,  and  ROSALIA  SCHLAEN  are  all 
graduate  assistants  at  WPI.  .  .  .  PAUL  A. 
CHRISTIAN  is  a  graduate  student  in  the 
chemistry  department  at  Stanford  University 
in  California.  .  .  .  JOHN  F.  CIRIONI  has  been 
employed  by  Foster  Forbes  Glass  Co.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  A.  DiMARZIO  works  for  Ray- 
theon Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID 
HUBBELL  is  a  student  at  Boston  University 
Medical  School.  .  .  .  DANIEL  KAZARIAN 
serves  as  an  intern  for  the  Defense  Dept.  at 
Rock  Island,  III.  .  .  .  Torrington  Co.,  Torring- 
ton,  Conn.,  has  employed  DAVID  A. 
KULCZYK  as  a  manufacturing  engineer  in 
needle  research. 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  0I605 


PHILIP  MEDIEROS  has  been  named 
chief  of  nuclear  test  trainee  and  support  at 
the  General  Dynamics  Corporation,  Groton, 
Conn.  .  .  .  MARK  MOORADIAN  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Harvard  University.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  J.  NIERANOWSKI  teaches  mathe- 
matics in  Milford,  N.H.  .  .  .  LEONARD 
REDON,  who  works  in  the  product  develop- 
ment department  at  Eastman  Kodak,  was 
featured  in  a  Kodak  advertisement  in  the 
October  8,  1973  issue  of  C  &  EN.  .  .  . 
PHILLY  M.  SADRI  is  with  the  Simplex  Time 
Recorder,  Gardner,  Mass. 


Completed 
Careers 


JAMES  E.  SMITH,  '06,  founder  and  for 
many  years  president  of  the  National  Radio 
Institute  in  Washington,  D.C.,  died  in 
McLean,  Virginia  on  September  30,  1973. 
He  was  92. 

The  school,  which  has  enrolled  nearly  a 
million  students,  is  said  to  be  the  oldest 
home  study  electronics  school  in  the  nation. 
It  was  founded  in  1914.  Mr.  Smith  was 
president  from  then  until  1956,  when  the 
school  was  bought  by  McGraw-Hill  pub- 
lishers and  he  became  chairman  of  the  board. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer  in  1906,  Mr.  Smith  went  to  Wash- 
ington to  teach  electrical  engineering  at 
McKinley  High  School,  where  he  built  a 
receiving  station  in  1910  and  introduced 
wireless  radio  to  public  schools. 

In  1917,  when  the  United  States  entered 
World  War  I,  he  became  director  of  radio 
instruction  at  Howard  University  where  he 
trained  800  wireless  telegraphers,  many  of 
whom  joined  the  Army  Signal  Corps. 

For  his  outstanding  professional  achieve- 
ment Mr.  Smith  was  given  the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  Award  in  1965,  and  in  1969  he  • 
received  an  honorary  doctor  of  engineering 
degree  from  WPI.  He  was  also  cited  by  the 
National  Home  Study  Council  Hall  of  Fame 
and  given  the  International  Knight  of 
Achievement  award. 

He  belonged  to  AIEE,  IRE,  and  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa.  He  also  was  a  Fellow  of  the  Radio 


Help  bring  a  better  environment  to  ozone's  life... 

The  Corps  of  Engineers  offers  exceptional  positions  of  challenge  and 
professional  satisfaction  to  engineers  who  want  to  help  solve  critical  environ- 
mental problems  so  all  our  people  can  enjoy  cleaner,  healthier  and  more 
productive  lives.  For  the  engineer  who  wants  to  take  part  in  new,  more 
advanced,  extremely  challenging  engineering/construction  projects,  the 
opportunities  are  virtually  limitless.  The  Corps'  activities  today  include  the 
broadest  sweep  of  professional  demands— planning,  design,  construction- 
water  resources  development,  navigation  and  flood  control  projects,  con- 
struction of  hospitals,  family  housing,  manufacturing  plants,  missile  and 
space  exploration  facilities,  research  in  Corps  laboratories  related  to  these 
programs— you  name  it!  This  is  the  organization  for  the  engineer  who  wants 
to  do  things,  plan  things,  become  involved,  grow— starting  right  now.  If  you're 
a  doer,  and  you  want  to  be  where  the  action  is,  write  to  us  today.  We'll  tell 
you  all  about  the  advantages  of  a  civilian  career  with  the  Corps  of  Engineers 
An  equal  opportunity  employer. 

CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS  DEPARTMENT  OF  THE  ARMY,  WASHINGTON,  D.C.  20314 


™ 


^© 


Club  of  America,  chairman  of  the  advisory 
board  of  the  D.C.  area  YMCA  and  president 
of  the  Round  Table  of  Washington.  He  was 
past  president  of  the  Washington,  D.C. 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association.  He  was 
the  father  of  J.  Morrison  Smith,  '37. 

JOHN  BARNARD,  '13,  a  retired  invest- 
ment broker,  died  November  4,  1973  in 
Weymouth,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  March  8,  1891  in  Worcester, 
and  graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical 
engineer  in  1913.  Until  his  retirement  in 
1955,  he  was  an  investment  broker  for  F.  S. 
Moseley  Company  of  Boston.  At  the  time  of 
his  death  he  was  serving  as  a  trustee  of  the 
company. 

Mr.  Barnard  was  a  member  of  the  Union 
Club  of  Boston,  a  former  president  of 
Rogerson  House,  Boston,  and  a  member  of 
the  executive  committee  of  the  New  England 
Deaconess  Hospital.  He  belonged  to  Skull 
and  Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 

ASA  HOSMER  IV,  '14,  died  September 
30, 1 973  at  Hartford  (Connecticut)  Hospital. 
He  was  81 . 

Born  in  Baldwinville,  Mass.,  he  went  to 
work  for  the  Factory  Insurance  Association 
of  Hartford  after  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  in  1914.  He  lived  in 
Charlotte,  N.C.  for  32  years  successively  as 
inspector,  engineer  and  as  southern  field 
manager  for  the  Association.  He  was  trans- 
ferred to  the  Hartford  office  as  a  senior 
engineer  in  1951. 

While  in  Charlotte  he  was  prominently 
identified  with  the  insurance  and  engineer 
groups  and  was  a  president  of  the  Charlotte 
Engineers  Club  and  chairman  of  the  local 
section  of  the  ASME.  He  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  North  Carolina.  He 
retired  in  1959. 

Mr.  Hosmer  belonged  to  the  Old  Guard  of 
West  Hartford. 

FRANCIS  T.  McCABE,  '16,  of  Cam- 
bridge, Massachusetts  died  on  November 
18,  1973  at  the  age  of  79. 

After  studying  at  WPI,  he  received  his  BS 
from  the  University  of  Maine  and  his  EdM 
from  Harvard  University. 

For  a  number  of  years  he  served  as  a 
teacher  of  physical  science  and  head  of  the 
department  at  Rindge  Technical  School, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  He  was  a  member  of 
ASME,  MAAT,  and  SPEE. 

JAMES  C.  WALKER,  '16,  a  life  trustee 
and  former  executive  vice  president  of  WPI, 
died  October  28,  1973  in  Pinehurst,  North 
Carolina.  He  was  79. 

He  was  a  native  of  Amesbury,  Mass.  In 
1916  he  graduated  as  a  chemist  from  WPI. 
During  World  War  I  he  served  in  the  U.S. 
Navy  as  an  ensign  in  the  Balloon  Corps. 
Until  1929  he  was  associated  with  the 
American  Woolen  Co.  From  1929  until  1960 
he  was  with  Sandoz,  Inc.,  New  York  City, 
an  international  chemical  company.  At  his 
retirement  he  was  executive  vice  president 
and  chairman  of  a  company  management 
committee. 

In  1961  he  was  appointed  executive  vice 
president  of  WPI  and  served  13  months. 
During  that  time  he  was  interim  president, 
between  the  terms  of  Arthur  Bronwell  and 
Harry  Storke. 


Mr.  Walker  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  Fraternity  and  a  charter  member  of 
the  American  Association  of  Textile  Chemists, 
Colorists.  He  received  an  honorary  doctor  of 
science  degree  from  WPI  in  1957. 

CLYDE  T.  HUBBARD,  '17,  died  on  No- 
vember 23,  1  973  in  Boston  at  the  age  of  80. 

Following  his  graduation  from  WPI  as  a 
civil  engineer,  he  joined  the  Bell  Telephone 
Co.  of  Pennsylvania.  From  1924  until  his 
retirement  in  1953  he  worked  for  the  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  He  re- 
tired as  division  plant  engineer-Western 
Division. 

Mr.  Hubbard  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  the  Telephone  Pioneers  of  America, 
and  the  Tech  Old  Timers.  He  was  a  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  the  state  of  Massa- 
chusetts. 

PHILIP  H.  SHERIDAN,  '17,  died  Octo- 
ber 6,  1973  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida. 

He  was  born  in  Grafton,  Mass.,  on  May 
1 6,  1 895  and  later  studied  at  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  with  Crompton  &  Knowles 
Loom  Works,  Worcester,  where  he  served 
as  assistant  foreman. 

MYRON  D.  CHACE,  '21,  died  on  Oc- 
tober 18,  1973  in  Arlington,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  February 
20,  1897,  and  graduated  in  1921  as  an 
electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  From  1922 
until  1962  he  worked  for  the  New  England 
Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  where  he  retired 
as  a  general  toll  engineer. 

Mr.  Chace  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  Fraternity.  He  was  a  registered  pro- 
fessional engineer  in  the  state  of  Massa- 
chusetts and  a  member  of  the  Telephone 
Pioneers  of  America. 

MAURICE  KORNBLUT,  '22,  passed 
away  on  November  1 8,  1 973  at  his  home  in 
Ansonia,  Connecticut.  He  was  73. 

A  native  of  Ansonia,  he  later  attended 
WPI  and  graduated  from  New  York  Univer- 
sity Law  School  in  1921  following  service 
in  World  War  I.  After  being  admitted  to  the 
Connecticut  bar,  he  practiced  law  in 
Ansonia  for  52  years.  Twice  he  was  the 
prosecuting  attorney  of  the  City  Court. 

Active  in  the  former  Ansonia  Jewish 
Community  Center,  he  was  also  past  presi- 
dent of  B'Nai  B'Rith. 

LEON  E.  HADLEY,  '23,  of  Fitchburg, 
Massachusetts,  passed  away  on  September 
30,  1973. 

He  was  born  on  May  4,  1901  in  Leomin- 
ster, Mass.  He  studied  mechanical  engineer- 
ing at  WPI.  For  many  years  he  worked  as  an 
estimator  at  Simonds  Saw  &  Steel  Co., 
Fitchburg. 

Mr.  Hadley  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  Fraternity. 

NORMAN    A.    BERGSTROM,   SR.,   '25, 

passed  away  very  suddenly  of  a  heart  attack 
on  October  1,  1973  in  New  Jersey.  He  was 
72  years  old. 

He  studied  electrical  engineering  at  WPI. 
In  1963  he  retired  as  a  supervisor  in  the 
Long  Lines  Dept.  at  the  American  Telephone 
&  Telegraph  Co.  in  Princeton,  N.J. 


DANIEL  A.  HOWE,  '25,  died  November 
23,  1973  at  his  home  in  Needham,  Massa- 
chusetts. He  was  68. 

He  was  a  mechanical  engineering  student     < 
at  WPI.  For  many  years  he  was  employed 
by  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston.  He  belonged 
to  Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 

WILLIAM  F.  RONCO,  '25.  passed  away 
on  September  22,  1973  in  Mt.  Kisco,  New 
York. 

He  was  born  on  January  17,  1903  in 
Clinton,  Mass.,  and  later  became  a  student 
at  WPI.  For  many  years  he  was  in  the 
electrical  business  in  Mt.  Kisco. 

EDMUND     F.     ROTHEMICH,     '34,     of 

Worcester  died  as  the  result  of  injuries  sus- 
tained in  an  auto  accident  last  October. 

He  was  born  on  August  16,  1913  at 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  In  1934  he  graduated  as 
a  civil  engineer  from  WPI  and  joined  Riley 
Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester,  where  he  was  em- 
ployed as  manager-customer  service  de- 
partment at  the  time  of  his  death. 

Mr.  Rothemich  was  a  member  of  Theta 
Chi  Fraternity  and  ASME. 

KINGSTON  C.  SMITH,  '35.  passed 
away  during  open-heart  surgery  at  Yale- 
New  Haven  Hospital  on  May  28,  1973  in 
Connecticut. 

He  was  born  on  September  25,  1911  in 
Rockville,    Conn.,   and    received    his    BSEE 
from  WPI  in  1935.  During  his  career  he  was 
affiliated  with  New  England  Power  Service 
Co.,  Curtiss-Wright  Corp.,  Monsanto  Chemi- 
cal Co.,  and  Gouverneur  Talc  Co.  For  many 
years  he  was  with  Sikorsky  Aircraft,  Strat-    « 
ford,  Conn.,  where  he  held  several  positions    j 
including  those  of  plant  electrical  engineer  '■! 
and  plant  mechanical  engineer. 

Among  the  organizations  of  which  he 
was  a  member  were  Lambda  Chi  Alpha 
Fraternity,  AIEE,  and  AIME.  He  was  a  past 
president  of  the  New  Haven  Chapter  of  the 
Alumni  Association. 

JOSEPH  P.  MANNA,  '46,  a  long-time 
resident  of  Duquesne,  Pennsylvania,  died  on 
September  5,  1973. 

He  was  born  on  December  22,  1920  at 
Franklin,  N.J.  After  graduating  as  a  me- 
chanical engineer  from  WPI,  he  joined 
Joseph  E.  Seagrams  &  Sons  from  1947  to 
1952.  Later  he  served  as  supervisor-fuel  and 
instruments  for  U.S.  Steel  at  the  Duquesne  , 
(Pa.)  Works. 

Mr.  Manna  belonged  to  ASME  and  ISA. 

ROBERT  A.  SHEIMAN,  '71,  was  killed 
while  on  duty  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  an  auto 
accident  in  Stuttgart,  Germany  on  June  20, 
1973. 

He  was  born  on  April  21,  1949  in 
Rochester,  N.Y.  He  graduated  as  a  chemical 
engineer  from  WPI  and  belonged  to  AICE. 


Nobody  can  guarantee  your  future. 
Not  even  Monsanto.  But... 

If  you're  an  engineering  student  and  believe  in  yourself  and 
your  ability . . .  you  could  be  one  of  those  who  will  walk 
through  the  Monsanto  doors  into  a  lasting  and  rewarding 
career.  Soon.  There's  no  better  road  to  a  successful  future. 

Monsanto  operates  in  a  very  competitive  field.  We  need 
innovative  engineers  to  help  us  stay  ahead  of  that  competition. 

There  are  openings  at  Monsanto  for  graduates  in  all  fields  of 
engineering  who  are  just  approaching  their  life's  work.  What 
you  need  most  with  your  degree  is  a  firm  idea  of  what  you 
want  to  do  with  your  life  and  your  willingness  to  work  for  it.  Hard. 

If  you  think  your  credentials  and  goals  are  in  tune  with  our 
needs;  if  you've  got  a  career  in  mind  and  the  motivation  to 
achieve— we  invite  you  to  look  at  our  company.  You  could 
start  something  that  will  last  a  long  time. 

Write  to  George  C.  Crook,  Manager,  University  Relations 
and  Professional  Recruiting,  Corporate  Personnel  Dept., 
800  North  Lindbergh  Boulevard,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  63166. 


Monsanto 

An  equal  opportunity  employer. 


Norton  micro-bubbles  can  minimize  your  troubles. 


Norton  Aeration  Systems  are  part  of  a  $77  million,  3%  year  pro- 
gram designed  to  increase  the  efficiency  and  capacity  of  New 
York  City's  Ward's  Island  waste  water  treatment  plant.  The 
upgraded,  secondary  treatment  facility,  designed  to  remove  90% 
of  solids,  will  serve  the  upper  East  Side  and  part  of  the  Bronx. 


1 


After  35  years  of  service  by  a  Norton 
Aeration  System  at  New  York  City's  Ward's 
Island  waste  treatment  plant,  a  similar 
Norton  system  will  be  furnished  as  part  of 
plant  upgrading.  The  in-going  system  will 
feature  ALUNDUM™  porous  media  of  the 
same  type  which  has  provided  a  constant, 
consistently  smooth-flowing  diffusion  of  fine 
bubbles  to  the  plant's  aeration  tanks  and 
distribution  channels  over  the  years. 

Today's  updated  Norton  line  offers 
complete  systems  of  ALUNDUM  porous 
ceramic  discs,  plates,  and  tubes  plus  the 
Dome  Diffusion  Systems  complete  with  PVC 
piping  and  fixtures.  A  uniquely  uniform 
pattern  of  pores  in  the  ceramic,  through 
which  clean  air  is  fed,  makes  possible  excel- 
lent oxygen  transfer  efficiency  .With 
proper  installation,  the  possibility  of 
clogging  is  precluded. 

Many  municipalities  are  breathing 
new  efficiency  and  economy  into  waste 
treatment  with  Norton  Aeration  Systems 
...  in  both  new  and  upgraded  installations. 
Write  for  details  before  planning  your  next 
plant.  Norton  Company,  Industrial  Ceramics 
Division,  New  Bond  Street,  Worcester, 
Mass.  01606. 


Porous  ALUNDUM  tubes  are 

available  in  a  wide  selection  of  wall 

thicknesses  and  lengths.  All  media  can  be  supplied  in  various 

grades  of  permeability  to  meet  individual  requirements. 


The  Dome  Diffusion  System  complete  with 
PVC  piping  &  fixtures  features  a  highly 
uniform,  anti-clog  pore  structure  and  is 
immune  to  the  chemical  action  of  sewage. 


ALUNDUM  plates  are  available  with 
full  bevel,  half  bevel,  Straight,  and 

rablx'ted  edges. 


NORTON 


INDUSTRIAL  CERAMICS 


APRIL  1974 


THE  FRATERNITIES 


• 


UIPpMrmMJJ 


Vol.  77,  No.  6 


April  1974 


2  Feedback 

3  On  the  Hill 

4  The  WPI  Fraternities  Today 

a  long  look  at  the  situation  of  the  Greek  houses  on  campus 

5  Changing  Times 

6  Why  Join? 

9  More  than  Just  Social  Life? 

11  Landlord  and  Taxpayer 

12  Offical  Viewpoints 
16  The  Houses  Today 

20  Now  You  See  it.  Now  You  Don't 

investigations  into  subjective  color — produced  from  black  and  white 

23  Your  Class  and  Others 

32  Completed  Careers 


'dkor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Mumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
r.,  '51,  Chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56; 
lichard  DeChard,  '56;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
38;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
r.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

ypography  and  printing:  Davis  Press, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts. 

ddress  all  correspondence  regarding 
I  ditorial  content  or  advertising  to  the 
ditor,  WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic 
istitute,  Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
3hone  617-753-1411). 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute.  Copyright  ©  1974 
by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute;  all 
rights  reserved. 


The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October, 
December,  February,  and  April.  Second 
Class  postage  paid  at  Worcester, 
Massachusetts.  Postmaster:  Please  send 
form  3579  to  Alumni  Association, 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  Presidents:  L.  Polizzotto,  '70; 
F.  S.  Harvey,  '37 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.,  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-Large: 

C.  W.  Backstrom,  '30;  B.  E.  Hosmer,  '61; 

D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M.  McNamara,  '55 

Fund  Board:  R.  F.  Burke,  Jr.,  '38,  Chairman; 

W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  Vice  Chairman; 

L  H.  White,  '41;  H.  I.  Nelson,  '54; 

P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J.  Maguire,  '66 


feedback 


Letters  to  the  editor  are  welcome.  All  points 
of  view  can  find  a  forum  in  this  section, 
and  we  encourage  the  exchange  of  ideas 
and  opinions  here.  For  reasons  of  space, 
variety,  timeliness,  and  interest  to  other 
readers,  we  may  not  publish  all  letters  re- 
ceived and  will  occasionally  excerpt  por- 
tions of  letters,  but  those  that  do  appear 
here  are  an  accurate  reflection  of  our  mail. 


Readers  Chill  Blaine 

This  letter  may  never  appear  on  the  printed 
pages  of  the  Journal  but.  at  least,  the  writer 
will  have  the  satisfaction  of  writing  it. 

The  writer  does  not  know  Joseph  W. 
Blaine  '42  who  wrote  the  diatribe  which 
appeared  on  "Feedback"  in  the  February 
issue  so  that  his  remarks  herewith  are 
obviously  impersonal.  The  writer  feels  that 
Blaine's  letter  was  ill-considered  and  mildly 
abusive.  It  was  read  by  him  with  rising 
indignation  and  the  feeling  that  some  sort 
of  rebuttal  should  be  made. 

While  the  writer  has  never  had  any  direct 
connection  with  the  modern  WPI  Journal 
he  does  have  a  certain  ancient  connection 
with  it.  In  1911-13  he  became  sophomore 
editor  of  the  old-time  Journal  under  the 
friendly  guidance  of  Dr.  George  H.  Haynes. 
of  memory,  who  was  the  guiding  force  be- 
hind its  make-up  and  publication.  In  the 
years  immediately  following  the  writer  be- 
came junior  and  then  senior  editor.  This  was 
in  the  early  days  when  Dr.  Haynes  appointed 
a  man  from  each  of  the  three  upper  classes 
to  care  for  the  business  affairs  of  the  Journal 
and  an  equal  number  for  editorial  duties. 

No  one  is  perfect  and  departures  from 
the  ideal  are  frequently  encountered  in  most 
of  our  modern  publications.  Errors  and  in- 
adequacies are  bound  to  creep  into  any 
enterprise  which  involves  the  written  word. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  everyone  cannot 
be  pleased.  And.  again,  what  pleases  one 
may  not  please  another. 

The  writer  has  been  critical  at  times  of  the 
modern  Journal  but  never  to  the  point  of 
committing  his  feelings  to  written  comment. 
He  found  for  instance  that  to  his  mind  the 
Alpha  and  Omega  article  was  incompre- 
hensible but  refrained  from  commenting  on 
it,  although  others  did.  pro  and  con.  For  the 
most  part  the  Journal  is  an  excellent  vehicle 
of  communication  between  Tech  and  its 
alumni.  It  serves  most  of  its  intended  ob- 
jectives efficiently  and  well.  The  writ'  i 
forward  to  each  issue  with  pleasurable 
anticipation. 


Mr.  Blaine  says  midway  in  his  letter  that 
"since  about  1968  I  have  not  had  the 
slightest  interest  in  WPI".  If  this  is  true  it 
seems  strange  that  he  would  take  the  time 
and  effort  to  write  his  lengthy  letter.  He  must 
have  had  some  slight  interest  as  he  ob- 
viously has  been  reading  the  Journal  in  the 
six  years  that  have  elapsed  since  1  968. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that,  with  all  his 
criticism,  he  makes  no  constructive  sugges- 
tions for  the  improvement  of  the  Journal  or. 
for  that  matter,  of  WPI.  He  deplores  the  use 
of  "unused  white  space".  So-called  white 
space  in  the  writer's  opinion  can  lend 
balance  and  dignity  to  any  publication  if 
judiciously  used.  In  this  connection  the 
writer  well  remembers  a  Tech  Banquet  of 
at  least  sixty  years  ago.  A  well  known 
figure,  whose  name  has  now  passed  into 
limbo,  was  the  principal  speaker.  In  the 
course  of  his  remarks  he  referred  critically  to 
the  attractive  banquet  program  which  was 
printed  on  a  single  sheet  of  paper  which 
had  been  folded  twice  to  make  a  neat  and 
attractive  four  page  leaflet.  The  speaker 
said  he  was  very  surprised  that  a  leading 
technical  school  would  have  permitted  the 
inefficiency  inherent  in  the  design  of  the 
program  inasmuch  as  it  utilized  only  half  of 
the  paper  involved.  (Actually  it  was  fifty 
percent  "white  space".)  At  this  juncture  the 
same  Dr.  Haynes  rose  and  interrupted  the 
speaker  abruptly.  In  his  quiet,  characteristic 
way  he  said.  "We  designed  it  this  way  for 
efficiency  and  economy  because  it  only  had 
to  go  through  the  press  once." 


M.  G.  Steele. 
Rome.  N.Y. 


'15 


I  read  with  interest  the  letter  written  by  Mr. 
Blaine  in  the  February  issue  of  the  WPI 
Journal.  He  brings  up  several  points  which 
are  worthy  of  comment. 

To  begin  Mr.  Blaine  accuses  the  Institute 
in  general  of  "degenerating  beyond  recall," 
and  while  this  is  his  opinion  he  also  states 
that  the  WPI  way  was  archaic  when  he 
graduated.  If  he  had  been  informed  as  to 
the  happenings  on  campus  he  would  have 
known  that  since  1968  several  interesting 
and  unique  changes  have  taken  place.  The 
archaic  system  he  mentions  has  been  re- 
vised substantially.  The  school  is  attempting 
to  bring  purpose  and  relevance  back  into  its 
curriculum.  In  short  he  has  condemned  the 
system  which  produced  him  and  is  also 
condemning  the  people  who  are  changing 
it.  A  most  admirable  bit  of  confused  logic — 
which  may  prove  his  first  contention. 

The  school  probably  changed  the  most 
during  my  four  years  as  an  undergraduate. 
It  went  from  a  traditional  engineering  school 
to  a  progressive  and  individual  institution. 
Yes.  there  were  some  problems  with  the 
conversion,  but  making  a  change  of  this 
type  not  only  means  changing  the  physical 
layout  but  some  thinking  as  well.  While  I 
was  not  on  the  Plan  I  believe  that  the  con- 
cept which  it  is  attempting  to  instill  is  valid. 
An  engineer  who  is  able  to  interact  with  his 
environment  in  a  positive  way  will  greatly 
aid  technology  as  a  whole. 


Your  publication  is  a  reflection  of  th( 
change  that  has  taken  place  on  campus, 
believe  that  is  what  your  purpose  shouk 
be — to  reflect  WPI  as  it  is  now  with  a  balance 
accorded  to  the  traditions  and  accomplish- 
ments of  its  alumni.  If  Mr.  Blaine  had  spen 
more  time  reading  the  Journal  he  might  have 
been  able  to  see  that  the  college  is  moving 
to  make  itself  less  archaic.  I  might  add  tha' 
it  seems  to  have  worked,  in  that  our  freshmar 
enrollment  was  down  slightly  at  500  + 
students  while  other  engineering  colleges 
are  being  forced  to  schedule  courses  everv 
other  year  for  lack  of  students. 

Joseph  J.  Magri,  '73 
Roslindale.  Mass. 


Our  Name  Again ! 

Some  time  ago,  some  one  complained  aboul 
the  size  of  the  title  on  the  cover  of  the 
Journal,  it  seems  that  the  letters,  WPI.  were 
lost.  Recently.  I  received  a  magazine  with 
the  word  Journal  in  large  letters.  I  opened 
it  and  noticed  all  those  Norwegians  and 
realized  that  it  was  a  North  Dakota  publica- 
tion. The  latest  Journal  is  improved  in  the 
matter  of  title,  but  somehow,  you  people 
could  do  better.  My  youngest  daughter  is  a 
student  at  Brown.  As  a  parent,  I  receive  the 
Brown  Alumni  Monthly.  There  is  only  one 
word  that  stands  out — Brown.  I  like  that. 

I  have  been  meaning  to  tell  you  that  the 
innovations  taking  place  at  Tech  sound 
exciting  and  stimulating.  Anyone  who  be- 
lieves that  the  engineering  education  of 
those  youngsters  is  being  watered  down  has 
a  dim  concept  of  what  is  really  happening! 
In  fact,  there  is  only  one  thing  that  excites 
me  more,  and  that  is  the  unveiling  of  Richard 
the  nixon! 

Thomas  R.  d'Errico.  '41 
Fargo.  N.D. 


on  the 
hill 


WPI  Sports— 
NOT  in  the  News? 

One  of  the  most  frequently  asked 
questions  of  Association  secretary- 
treasurer  Steve  Hebert,  '66,  as  he 
travels  across  the  country  is  why 
WPI  sports  scores  aren't  carried  in 
newspapers  across  the  country.     . 

A  large  number  of  people  want 
to  see  the  figures  for  WPI,  particu- 
larly for  football  and  basketball,  and 
apparently  few  newspapers  carry 
the  information.  They  have  it  avail- 
able, Athletic  Director  Bob  Pritchard 
assures  us,  on  both  the  AP  and 
UPI  wire  services. 

So  if  you  aren't  hearing  about 
WPI  sports  in  your  local  newspaper, 
wherever  you  live,  the  best  thing 
you  can  do  is  to  let  them  know 
what  you  want.  If  enough  people 
pester  any  paper,  they'll  print  the 
scores  just  to  get  rid  of  your  phone 
calls. 

Dean  of  Admissions 
Resigns 

Kenneth  Nourse,  head  of  admissions 
at  WPI  for  nine  years,  has  resigned 
.  to  become  director  of  public  affairs 
'  at  Middlebury  College,  Middlebury, 
Vermont,  his  alma  mater. 

Dean  of  Students  Donald 
Reutlmger,  in  announcing  the 
resignation,  stated  that,  "having 
come  to  us  from  Clarkson  College 
i  to  organize  our  first  admissions 
I  office,  his  planning,  counsel  and 
encouragement  have  brought  nearly 
a  decade  of  classes  to  WPI.  As  one 
I  of  the  senior  admissions  officers  in 

New  England,  in  point  of  service, 
|  his  dedication,  resourcefulness,  hard 
i  work,  and  optimism  will  be  sorely 
missed." 


Goodwin  Named  to  Head 
New  Social  Science  Dept. 

Leonard  Goodwin,  a  research 
associate  in  the  governmental 
studies  program  of  the  Brookings 
Institution,  Washington,  D.C.,  has 
been  appointed  to  head  up  a  new 
department  of  social  science  and 
policy  studies.  The  present  eco- 
nomics faculty  of  WPI  will  join 
three  new  faculty  hired  to  provide 
expertise  in  other  social-science 
areas  in  the  new  department. 

The  new  faculty  will  be  working 
at  the  boundaries  between  tech- 
nology and  other  areas  of  human 
endeavor — politics,  psychology, 
sociology,  bureaucracy.  The  em- 
phasis will  be  not  so  much  on 
specific  educational  backgrounds  as 
on  interest  in  the  interfaces  among 
the  areas.  The  department  will  be 
undergraduate  in  scope,  offering 


basic  courses  in  its  fields  and 
participating  in  a  major  way  in 
interactive  projects.  It  will  be 
responsible  for  the  existing  major 
program  in  economics  and  whatever 
other  programs  may  be  generated 
in  others  of  its  areas. 

Leonard  Goodwin,  the  new  head, 
holds  bachelor's  degrees  in  mathe- 
matics, physics,  and  English  from 
the  University  of  Michigan.  He  has 
a  master's  in  educational  psychology 
from  the  University  of  Chicago  and 
has  done  graduate  work  in  social 
psychology  at  Brandeis  and 
Columbia.  His  first  book.  Do  the 
Poor  Want  to  Work?  was  published 
in  1972,  and  another,  Can  Social 
Science  Help  Resolve  National 
Problems?  Welfare,  A  Case  in  Point. 
will  be  published  next  spring.  He 
has  taught  at  Earlham  College  and 
has  worked  in  industry  as  a  research 
engineer  and  physicist. 


See  Saws  Sell  Shells 

While  seesawing  is  not  your  average  college  student's  normal  occupation, 
two  members  of  the  women's  crew  team  spent  ten  hours  riding  up  and 
down  in  a  marathon  effort  to  raise  money  for  a  new  rowing  shell. 

The  project  was  conceived  in  the  brains  (and  executed  by  the  seats)  of 
Kristma  Perry  and  Lexy  Chito,  both  freshmen  (freshwomen?  freshpeople?). 
With  a  seesaw  borrowed  from  the  Worcester  Parks  Department,  the  pair  set 
out  to  collect  the  $250  which  was  pledged.  The  day  began  gray,  turned 
rainy,  and  finished  up  with  a  downpour  in  the  middle  of  the  afternoon.  For 
a  while  the  women  were  coming  down  into  three-inch-deep  puddles,  until 
a  campus  carpenter  took  pity  on  them  and  brought  out  some  duckboards. 

Passersby  contributed  another  $1  00  to  the  fund.  The  shell  they  are  working 
toward  costs  $4,400,  or  about  $6  an  inch,  so  they  now  have  about  five 
feet  worth. 

When  the  long,  wet,  tender  day  finally  ended  at  8:00  in  the  evening,  Tina 
and  Lexy  were  barely  able  to  stagger  off  home.  Reliable  reports  indicate 
that  neither  did  much  sitting  that  weekend. 


AZT 


AXA 


OTA 


The  WPI 

fraternities 

Today 


For  most  WPI  graduates,  fraternity 
membership  was  a  normal  part  of 
their  college  experience.  In  fact,  up 
until  about  five  years  ago,  around 
80  percent  of  all  WPI  students  were 
affiliated  with  one  or  another  of 
the  twelve  fraternities. 

But  in  the  last  few  years  the 
situation  has  changed  dramatically, 
to  the  point  where  now  only  about 
40  percent  of  eligible  students  are 
joining  the  fraternity  system. 
Admittedly,  in  the  same  time  period 
the  male  enrollment  in  the  freshman 
class  has  increased  from  325  to  500. 

With  this  in  mind,  we  are  devoting 
most  of  this  issue  to  the  fraternity 
system  at  WPI — its  present  status, 
activities,  problems,  and  some  look- 
ing toward  the  future.  On  the 
following  pages  we  will  examine 
various  aspects  of  fraternity  life  at 
WPI  through  the  viewpoints  of  the 
people  involved.  Toward  this  end,  in 
February  the  Journal  convened  a 
discussion  group  of  some  twelve 
people,  each  of  whom  spoke  from  a 
different  point  of  view.  All  but  two 
of  the  participants  are,  or  have  been, 
intimately  involved  with  the 
fraternities  at  WPI. 

A  brief  description  of  the  people 
involved  in  the  making  of  this 
fraternity  issue  is  in  order.  They  are: 


John  van  Alstyne,  dean  of  aca- 
demic advising  and  former  advisor 
to  the  IFC,  who  moderated  the 
discussion. 

Gary  Balboni,  senior,  president  of 
Phi  Gamma  Delta. 

Bernard  Brown,  associate  dean  of 
student  affairs. 

Danny  Funk,  freshman,  pledge  at 
Phi  Gamma  Delta. 
Bill  Giudice,  sophomore,  non- 
fraternity  member. 
Alexander  Gordon,  36,  treasurer 
of  the  Alpha  Epsilon  Pi  alumni 
board. 

William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  dean  of 
undergraduate  studies  and  past 
national  president  of  Phi  Kappa 
Theta,  current  advisor  to  PKT. 
Frances  Harvey,  '37,  WPI  trustee 
and  Phi  Kappa  Theta  alumnus. 
Stephen  Hebert,  '66.  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association,  president  of  the 
Cluvenus  Society  (the  alumni  IFC), 
and  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  alumnus. 
Mike  Parker,  junior,  president  of 
the  Interfraternity  Council,  and 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha. 
Brad  Thatcher,  sophomore,  non- 
fraternity  member. 
Robert  Wilcox,  executive  director 
of  Phi  Kappa  Theta  national 
fraternity. 


THE   WPI    FRATERNITIES 

Changing  Times 


HE  MOST  SIGNIFICANT  fact  of  life  for  WPI 
fraternities  today  is  that  they  are  in  a  period  of 
change,  readjusting  to  a  larger  student  population  and 
to  the  new  educational  approach  of  the  WPI  Plan. 
While  the  total  number  of  fraternity  members  is 
about  the  same  as  before,  only  about  40  percent  of 
eligible  students  are  pledging  fraternities  today,  half 
of  what  it  used  to  be.  What  are  the  reasons  for  this 
decline?  And  what  does  it  mean  for  the  future  of  the 
fraternity  system? 

There  are  two  factors  operating  here.  One  is  a 
national  trend  among  college  students  away  from 
fraternities.  The  other  is  the  changed  situation  at 
WPI. 

Locally,  the  WPI  fraternity  system  has  had  to 
contend  with  a  significantly  larger  entering  freshman 
class  in  recent  years  (540  in  1973  vs.  390  in  1966), 
with  a  greater  variety  of  WPI  operated  housing 
available  to  students,  with  WPI's  reorganization  of  the 
entire  educational  structure,  and  with  many  more 
social  and  recreational  activities  made  available  to 
students  by  the  college. 


© 


F  THE  NATIONAL  situation,  Robert  Wilcox, 
executive  director  of  the  Phi  Kappa  Theta  national, 
has  this  to  say: 

"Fraternities  across  the  country,  all  nationals, 
have  shown  cyclical  trends.  My  guesstimate  would  be 
that  the  bottom  of  the  current  cycle  was  about  1971, 
and  the  bottom  of  another  cycle  was  World  War  II. 
We.  and  the  other  national  fraternities,  would  classify 
the  current  situation  as  equal  to  or  worse  than  the 
World  War  II  crisis.  At  that  time  the  problem  was 
basically  manpower.  This  time  it  was  the  loss  of 
members  because  of  ideology,  and  because  in  one 
sense  fraternities  represent  the  establishment. 


"Everyone  is  experiencing  a  tremendous 
resurgence  of  interest.  It  is  greatest  in  the  South, 
which  never  really  felt  the  terrible  crunch  that  hit  the 
Northeast  and  the  Far  West.  But  even  at  schools  like 
the  University  of  Wisconsin  and  the  University  of 
California  at  Berkeley,  interest  and  membership  are 
up." 

Wilcox  also  comments  on  the  support  fraternities 
can  give  one  another  -  but  often  don't.  "Fraternities, 
I  think,  are  their  own  worst  enemies.  There's  always 
infighting  to  some  extent,  and  back-biting  and  so  on, 
especially  in  the  IFC  organizations.  And  that's 
unfortunate.  If  there  is  an  'enemy'  (if  we  want  to  use 
that  word  of  language),  it  would  be  non-fraternity 
men.  It's  not  the  other  Greek  houses,  although  for 
some  reason  we  always  look  to  each  other  and  say 
that  we've  got  to  get  more  pledges  than  XYZ 
fraternity.  We've  got  to  beat  them  out  in  every 
respect. 

"Healthy  competition  is  OK  up  to  a  point,  but 
not  when  we're  talking  about  our  very  lifeblood  in 
terms  of  new  membership.  I  know  there  are  some 
fraternities  on  the  WPI  campus  that  don't  have  full 
houses.  Maybe  if  the  IFC  sat  down  and  took  a  good 
hard  look  at  the  overall  approach  to  rushing,  some  of 
the  bigger  and  more  successful  houses  could  help  the 
smaller  ones.  The  thing  is  that  it  hurts  the  entire 
fraternity  system  for  one  house,  just  one  house  on 
campus,  to  be  doing  poorly.  And  I  think  a  lot  of  that 
can  be  eliminated  with  cooperation.  I  notice  a 
tremendous  amount  of  cooperation  on  the  national 
level." 

Dean  of  Students  Donald  Reutlinger  has  said  that 
he  doesn't  think  the  student  body  can  support  twelve 
fraternity  houses  any  more.  And  one  of  the  twelve, 
Alpha  Epsilon  Pi,  is  in  serious  financial  trouble. 
Several  consecutive  years  of  small  pledge  classes  were 
aggravated  by  a  lack  of  undergraduate  leadership  and 
a  moderately  unsavory  reputation.  AEPi  has  been 
unable  to  meet  the  heavy  tax  and  mortgage  burden  of 
a  new  house  built  in  1969.  WPI  owner  of  AEPi's 
mortgage,  has  had  to  foreclose. 

Thus  the  stresses  of  change  have  had  a  definite 
impact  on  the  WPI  fraternity  system.  How  well  the 
system  is  able  to  cope  with  these  changes  and  the 
problems  presently  confronting  it  will  determine  the 
direction  of  WPI  fraternities  for  some  years  to  come. 


mm 


FRATERNITIES   AS 
MEMBERSHIP  GROUPS 

Why  Join? 


W 


HY  JOIN,  INDEED?  Membership, 
obviously,  is  the  lifeblood  of  the  fraternity.  Each  year 
the  twelve  WPI  houses  make  a  concerted  effort  to 
recruit  some  230  new  members,  primarily  from  the 
entering  freshman  class.  Without  this  influx  of  new 
members,  the  fraternities  would  soon  go  out  of 
business  —  in  both  economic  and  social  terms. 

But  what  is  the  basis  for  their  attraction?  Why 
should  an  entering  student  join  the  minority  of 
fraternity  members?  Is  it  the  attraction  of  house 
living  and  the  camaraderie  that  seems  built-in?  The 
promised  social  life?  The  availability  of  other 
members  (particularly  upperclassmen)  for  help  with 
studies  when  you're  in  a  bind?  In  fact,  it  would  seem 
to  be  all  of  these  and  more. 

Steve  Hebert,  '66.  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Alumni 
Association:  "When  I  entered  as  a  freshman  in  1962, 
people  pledged  more  out  of  necessity  than  I  believe  is 
the  case  today.  We  joined  a  house  because  that  was 
where  the  action  was,  whatever  action  there  was." 

Danny  Funk,  freshman,  pledging  Phi  Gamma  Delta: 
"When  I  looked  at  fraternities  I  decided  that,  unless  I 
joined  one,  I  might  draw  myself  into  a  shell  and 
become  something  I  didn't  want  to.  The  fraternity 
would  force  me  to  be  outgoing,  meet  people,  to  live 
with  other  people,  which  I  always  felt  was  what  Life 
was  all  about." 

(iary  Balboni.  president  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta: 
"Primarily,  people  come  to  WPI  for  an  education 

the  book  learning  education  we're  all  familiar  with. 
And  anybody  in  this  kind  of  pressure  situation  needs 
some  relief.  The  fraternities  can  provide  that  relief, 
that  extracurricular  activity.  And  that's  why.  during 
rush,  you're  not  going  to  see  a  picture  of  somebody 
studying,  or  exams  laid  out  on  a  table,  but  instead 
rush  books,  maybe  showing  football  games  we've  had 
or  the  parties.  In  recruiting  new  members.  I  think  the 
fraternities  try  t<>  present  an  overall  view  of  what 
I  you  (,m  get  from  your  tune  in  college. 


"It's  too  bad,  in  a  way,  because  I  don't  think  I 
could  have  done  as  well  in  this  school  if  I  didn't  have 
this  fraternity  behind  me.  You  have  a  tutor  in  every 
field  of  education  —  mathematics,  physics,  chemistry 
-  you've  got  upperclassmen  majoring  in  everything. 
You've  got  somebody  you  can  go  to  who's  right 
there,  who  will  give  you  his  time  without  question, 
any  time  of  the  day  or  night.  And  that's  something 
hard  to  find  outside  the  fraternities.  You  can't  find 
professors  in  this  school  that  will  give  you  that  kind 
of  attention,  but  you  can  find  students  living  in  the 
next  room  who  will.  And  sure,  the  guy  living  next  to 
you  in  the  dormitory  might  be  able  to  help  you  in 
one  thing,  but  where's  the  guy  who  can  help  you  in 
the  next  subject?" 

This  particular  argument  carries  some  weight  at  WPI. 
Because  of  the  historical  pattern  of  most  students 
joining  fraternities,  WPI-owned  student  housing  has 
always  been  somewhat  scarce.  Only  this  year,  with 
the  opening  of  the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  residence 
complexes,  has  the  supply  even  begun  to  approach 
the  demand.  With  all  entering  freshmen  guaranteed 
dormitory  rooms,  1,500   upperclassmen  must 
compete  (in  a  lottery)  for  the  500  or  so  remaining 
vacancies.  And  they  must  compete  again  every  year,  a 
situation  which  has  caused  no  little  resentment 
among  students  who  want  to  retain  their  present 
rooms  for  the  following  academic  year.  So  the 
fraternity,  with  its  guarantee  of  renewable  housing, 
has  some  significant  attractions  just  from  that  point 
of  view.  And  since  it  is  in  the  upperclassmen  who  are 
short  changed  on  domitory  housing,  it  is  in  the 
fraternities  and  not  the  dormitories  that  one  will  find 
upperclassmen  in  large  numbers. 

UIPI 


Mike  Parker,  president  of  the  Interfraternity  Council, 
member  of  Lambda  Chi  Alpha:  "The  fraternity 
process  is  getting  people  to  learn  to  live  with  other 
people.  When  it  comes  to  fraternities,  I'm  something 
of  an  idealist.  I  think  fraternities  teach  the  lesson  that 
no  one  person  can  do  it  all  alone.  You  need  people 
when  you  get  out  into  society,  when  you  leave  WPI. 
You're  going  to  have  to  be  constantly  working  with 
other  people.  You  can't  just  do  everything  on  your 
own.  In  one  way,  too,  the  fraternity  doubles  as  your 
family  when  you're  away  from  home. 

"Also,  you  have  a  constant  change;  every  year 
there  are  new  people  coming  in  and  seniors  leaving. 
At  times  it  provides  for  a  lack  of  continuity.  You 
wind  up  making  the  same  mistakes  someone  else  did. 
But  you're  meeting  different  people,  seeing  their 
problems,  using  your  experience.  And  I  haven't  seen 
very  many  guys  come  into  the  house  with  a  problem 
that  somebody  else  hasn't  had  before." 


A^mNOTHER  WAY  of  asking  the  question  at  hand 
is:  Why  don't  students  join  fraternities? 

Bill  Giudice,  sophomore,  non-fraternity  member:  "I 

looked  into  pledging  one  of  the  fraternities,  but  I 
didn't  like  the  idea  of  doing  things  exclusively  with 
the  house.  Several  of  my  friends  joined  that 
fraternity,  and  that  was  the  main  reason  I  was  going 
to  pledge.  And  now  those  friends  don't  do  anything 
except  with  their  brothers.  It's  a  cliquish  thing. 

"I  don't  think  that  just  hanging  around  with  the 
brothers  is  going  to  provide  me  with  the  social  growth 
I  look  for  in  school.  Also,  I  don't  like  the  idea  of 
pledging.  The  whole  first-year  program  is  not 
something  that  makes  it  attractive  to  join  a 
fraternity:  having  to  go  down  and  learn  all  the 
brothers'  names  because  they  forced  you  to,  and  get 
their  signatures  and  know  their  girlfriends  and  know 
their  towns.  And  hell  week.  It's  not  the  kind  of 
growth  I'm  looking  for. 


"If  you  join  a  fraternity,  you're  sort  of  cutting 
yourself  off.  You  eat  dinner  with  the  house;  you  go 
bowling  with  kids  from  the  house;  and  that's  because 
you're  living  with  them.  You're  not  forced  into 
situations  where  you  have  to  go  out  and  find  some 
other  friends.  When  you're  not  in  a  fraternity,  you  do 
have  to  go  out;  you  don't  just  call  down  the  hall.  You 
have  to  go  out  and  visit  some  friends,  and  maybe  they 
have  some  other  friends  over.  It's  more  a  process  of 
being  able  to  look  toward  the  horizon." 

Brad  Thatcher,  sophomore,  non-fraternity:  "The 
fraternity,  in  my  mind,  is  instant  friends,  instant 
buddyhood,  plus  it's  a  place  to  live,  which  last  year 
was  kind  of  shaky  because  they  didn't  have  the  other 
dorms.  But  I  decided  that  I  already  had  a  million 
friends,  that  I  didn't  feel  I  needed  more,  that  I  was 
fairly  stable  the  way  I  was.  I  also  wasn't  as  interested 
in  the  extra  activities  that  fraternities  seem  to 
represent.  You  can  still  go  to  parties  and  things 
without  being  in  a  fraternity.  And  I  guess  I  was  sort 
of  scared  of  all  the  obligations  that  come  along  with  a 
fraternity;  you're  obligated  to  participate  in  an  awful 
lot  of  activities. 

"My  roommate  was  pledging,  and  he  had  a  little 
book  with  all  the  brothers  in  it.  He  had  to  learn  their 
girlfriends,  and  where  they're  from.  And  he  did  go  to 
a  fraternity,  and  I  wondered:  When  I  get  out  of 
school,  what  fraternity  am  I  going  to  join  then  so  I 
can  have  people  around  to  help  me  ...  to  tell  me 
everything  is  OK?  if  you're  not  in  a  fraternity  and 
you  want  to  do  something,  you  have  to  go  scrape  up 
somebody  to  do  it  with.  And  you  run  into  more 
people  that  way.  At  the  same  time,  you  might  be 
unsuccessful  in  finding  someone,  and  if  you're 
generally  that  type  of  person  you  probably  should 
join  a  fraternity.  I  feel  there  are  two  types  of  people. 
The  type  that  definitely  is  happiest  in  a  fraternity, 
that  needs  or  wants  or  almost  has  to  be  in  a  fraternity 
to  be  happy.  And  there's  another  set  of  people  who 
are  different,  who  really  don't  feel  they  belong  in 
that  type  of  environment.  You're  always  going  to 
have  the  two  types,  and  I  don't  think  the  difference 
has  anything  to  do  with  intellect." 


w 


HAT  ABOUT  the  students  who  do  join  the 
fraternities,  the  40  percent  we're  studying? 

John  van  Alstyne,  dean  of  academic  advising:  "I  keep 
hearing  the  Plan  is  attracting  a  different  type  of 
student.  And  it's  not  the  kind  of  student  that  some 
fraternities  say  they  want.  Now  the  question  is, 
What's  wrong  with  them?  Is  it  that  the  student  isn't 
the  kind  of  person  who's  socially  oriented?  Or  is  it 
that  the  fraternity  is  just  not  with  it?  You  must  have 
heard  that  in  your  IFC  meetings,  Mike,  when  you're 
talking  about  the  traditional  meat  market,  dividing  up 
the  people:  you  don't  want  too  much  turkey." 

Mike  Parker:  "I've  talked  with  a  lot  of  people  about 
their  impressions  of  the  students  we're  getting  here. 
And  the  general  consensus  is  that  we're  getting  some 
very  highly  intellectual  students  who  are  attracted  to 
the  school  because  of  the  Plan,  because  of  the 
intellectual  freedom.  We're  also  getting  some 
borderline,  marginal  students,  who  are  coming  here 
because  they  think  they  can  get  through  and  the 
school  accepts  them  under  the  negotiated  admissions 
policy.  The  general  feeling  is  that  we're  not  getting 
too  many  middle  or  average  students.  We're  getting 
the  high  people  and  the  low  people,  but  we're  losing 
the  ones  in  the  middle,  the  average  people.  And  a  lot 
of  fraternity  people  say  that  this  is  the  type  of  person 
that  fraternities  have  attracted. 

"In  years  past,  I  don't  think  we  had  the  feeling  on 
campus  that  there  were  so  many  marginal  people 
around.  I  don't  want  to  sound  like  an  intellectual 
snob,  but  there  is  that  feeling  on  campus,  whether  it's 
true  or  not.  And  it  disturbs  a  lot  of  people  that  we're 
losing  this  middle  stratum,  if  you  want  to  call  it 
that." 

John  van  Alstyne:  "Statistically,  we're  not.  But  the 
extremes  are  always  more  noticeable  than  the  middle; 
and  therefore  if  the  class  is  larger,  we  have  more  that 
are  at  the  top  and  more  at  the  bottom,  and 
immediately  one  tends  to  assume  that  this  represents 
the  whole  class.  He  forgets  the  middle,  and  he's 
pretty  nearly  all  wrong  in  doing  so." 


iHUS  IT  SEEMS  that  a  student  today  joins  a 
fraternity  because  it  represents  a  social  pattern,  a 
living  pattern,  that  appeals  to  him.  It  offers  a 
supportive  group  atmosphere  that  makes  him  feel  at 
home.  Because  of  changing  housing  patterns  and 
needs,  the  fraternity  is  no  longer  necessary  as  a  place  to 
live.  The  student  who  joins  a  fraternity  in  1974  does  so 
because  he  wants  to,  not  because  he  is  forced  into  it  by 
the  lack  of  housing  and  the  lack  of  other  campus 
social  activities.  And  because  of  this,  today's 
fraternity  members  represent  a  more  homogeneous 
and  presumably  more  dedicated  bunch  of  students 
than  ever  before,  a  group  which  is  probably  less 
diversified  than  any  of  their  predecessors.  In  the  short 
term,  there  are  definite  problems  for  the  fraternity 
system  and  the  individual  houses;  in  the  long  run,  this 
increased  homogeneity  may  be  the  downfall  of  the 
system— or  it  may  be  its  salvation.  The  fraternity 
leaders  at  WPI  believe  that  the  future  is  bright. 

UIPI 


FRATERNITIES  AS 
EDUCATIONAL  EXPERIENCES 

More  Than  Just 
Social  Life? 


A 


lSK  A  fraternity  member  what  he  gets  out  of 
house  life,  and  the  odds  are  he'll  tell  you  the 
fraternity  has  helped  him  come  to  terms  with  his  own 
possibilities.  We  asked  one. 

Gary  Balboni:  "We're  involved  in  every  major  activity 
on  campus.  It's  the  kick  in  the  pants  the  house  gives 
you.  I  know  I  couldn't  ever  have  become  as  active  as  I 
am  without  those  guys  in  the  upper  classes  urging  me 
on.  I  was  the  kind  of  guy  who  had  it  in  me,  but  it 
wasn't  going  to  come  out  without  some  help.  The 
fraternity  has  given  me  a  chance  to  realize  my 
potential. 

"Another  thing  about  fraternities  is  that  you're 
living  in  a  structured  group.  WPI  now  has  the  Plan, 
and  the  Plan  is  a  very  individualized  sort  of  educa- 
tion. They  want  individuals.  You  come  here  and 
you're  not  in  a  class  any  more;  you're  not  in  a  group. 
You're  by  yourself,  planning  your  own  curriculum, 
your  own  course  of  study.  In  our  civilization  it's  been 
proven  that  group  living,  one  way  or  another,  the 
family  unit,  is  the  best  way.  The  family  structure  is 
what  has  carried  us  on  over  the  years.  And  individuals 
can't  make  it  on  their  own.  I  think  fraternities  can 
provide  that  structure,  help  round  out  an  individual's 
life. 

"The  fraternity  is  a  very  responsible  place  to  be. 
You  consider  it  your  home,  not  your  dorm  room  or 
an  apartment  or  something  you  can  walk  away  from. 
We're  all  owners  in  this  establishment  we  call 
fraternity.  I'm  going  to  care  about  this  house  until 
the  day  I  die.  I  don't  know  if  you  could  say  the  same 
thing  about  Ellsworth  or  Fuller  or  Daniels.  I  know 
guys  who  live  in  Daniels  who  throw  knives  into  the 
doors.  People  just  don't  care  about  something  they 
can  walk  away  from,  but  they  do  care  about 
fraternities. 

"Finally,  I  feel  very  strongly  that  an  individual's 
education,  especially  in  an  engineering  school,  has  to 
enable  him  to  deal  with  people.  And  I  don't  know  of 
any  courses  I  could  ever  have  taken,  even  if  I  had  a 
master's  degree  in  business  administration  or 


psychology  or  sociology,  that  would  have  equipped 
me  to  deal  with  people  as  well  as  my  three  and  a  half 
years  in  the  fraternity.  The  experience  of  being 
president,  trying  to  make  decisions  for  people  — 
people  you  care  about  and  don't  want  to  hurt  —  is  a 
tough  thing  to  do.  And  it's  tough  with  forty,  never 
mind  two  thousand.  I  can  really  take  my  hat  off  to 
what  this  fraternity  has  done  for  me  and  a  lot  of 
other  people  ahead  of  me  and  behind  me." 


o 


N  THE  OTHER  END  of  the  academic  log, 
there  are  more  reservations.  The  two  deans  most 
involved  with  the  implementation  of  the  WPI  Plan, 
and  thus  the  future  of  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute,  are  concerned  about  the  impact  of  the 
fraternities  on  students. 

William  R.  Grogan,  dean  of  undergraduate  studies:  "I 

think  that  probably  the  greatest  non-changers  in  the 
world  are  fraternity  sophomores  and  fraternity 
alumni  one  year  out.  They  really  don't  want  to  see 
anything  changed  from  the  way  they  saw  it.  I  think 
this  acts  as  a  very  deadly  force. 

"Fraternities  have  started,  painfully,  getting  rid  of 
the  Gatsby-era  image  that  has  been  so  damaging  to 
them.  But  it's  up  to  the  undergraduates.  I  don't  see 
how  anybody  else  can  change  their  image.  There  has 
been  a  kind  of  fundamental  anti-intellectualism  that 
must  be  changed.  As  the  college  undertakes  a  much 
more  challenging  type  of  program,  where  the 
individual  is  really  on  his  own  to  a  much  larger 
extent,  the  fraternities  can  make  or  break  people 
much  more  easily.  Any  associations  people  get  into 
can.  A  fraternity  can  be  a  tremendous  support  to 
anybody,  but  if  the  fraternities'  total  program  — 
social  events,  athletics,  and  so  on  —  does  not  help 
create  a  positive  intellectual  climate,  then  people  are 
going  to  be  in  trouble.  It's  not  just  a  matter  of 
homework,  but  of  encouraging  people  to  be 
adventuresome  and  curious.  We've  started  a  little 


study  to  see  the  types  of  projects  that  fraternity  and 
non-fraternity  people  do.  I'm  not  sure  that  it's  going 
to  show  any  significant  differences,  but  we've  had 
some  tremendous  activity  on  both  sides.  We've 
known  before  that  people  who  are  in  fraternities 
never  did  all  that  badly  under  the  old  QPA  grading 
system.  We  didn't  find  a  great  percentage  of  very  top 
honors  people  there;  it  had  a  sort  of  median  effect. 
But  we  just  wonder  whether  that  will  happen  as  we 
get  into  opportunities  for  far  more  challenging 
intellectual  activity.  That  worries  me.  The  fraternity 
per  se  doesn't  mean  one  thing  or  another;  it  depends 
on  the  attitude  that  develops  within  the  system. 

"In  my  farewell  speech  as  national  president  of 
Phi  Kappa  Theta,  I  said  that  one  of  the  things  that 
can  keep  fraternities  in  the  dark  ages  is  their  own 
attitude  toward  the  type  of  things  characterized  by 
secret  initiations.  A  pledge  program  well  run  is  a  very 
supportive  thing  for  a  fraternity.  It  can  be  a  very  fine 
experience.  On  the  other  hand,  if  it  gets  overdone  by 
counting  how  many  times  people  go  to  the  house,  or 
all  kinds  of  other  little  things,  then  the  whole  process 
becomes  untenable. 

"For  the  last  fifteen  years  I've  heard  about  how 
much  school  spirit  we  would  have  if  we  didn't  have 
fraternities.  The  implication  is  that  fraternities  by 
their  nature  obstruct  school  spirit.  I  don't  think  that's 
true  at  all. 

"I  think  the  problem  of  school  spirit  concerns 
everybody  —  fraternities,  non-fraternity  people, 
commuters.  The  problem  is  a  basic  sense  of  identifica- 
tion with  the  college.  It's  very  hard  for  the  frater- 
nities to  identify  with  the  college  when  it  has  been  a 
college  with  which  it  has  been  hard  to  identify  on  any 
basis  at  all.  if  you  look  at  any  number  of  areas,  what 
is  the  central  focus  of  the  college?  It  certainly  hasn't 
been  our  athletic  teams.  Maybe  that's  the  answer  - 
maybe  if  we  had  a  winning  basketball  team  up  there 
on  S.iturday  nights,  WPI  would  mean  something  to 
people. 

"'I  think  the  problem  is  typified  by  Raven  Hall 
and  Atwater  Kent.  Our  buildings  are  designed  to  face 
out.  away  from  the  campus  rather  than  in.  And  this 
has  been  the  mental  attitude  too.  II  the  fraternities 
didn't  exist,  there  still  wouldn't  be  any  more  campus 
spirit,  there  would  just  be  more  people  going  home 
On  weekends.  There  is  something  lacking  .it  the  (  ore. 

"WPI  doesn't  have  the  same  ring  to  it  that  many 
other  colleges,  even  in  the  city.  have.  Collectively, 

fraternity  and  non  fraternity  people  alike,  we've  got 
to  work  toward  that  identification.  It's  ,i  very  elusive 


thing;  we  haven't  been  able  to  catch  it  yet.  We've  got 
to  be  proud  to  identify  with  WPI." 

John  van  Alstyne:  "One  reason  why  I  was  relieved  to 
give  up  my  position  as  advisor  to  the  IFC  relates  to 
this.  It  wasn't  anti-intellectualism.  It  was  anti-interest 
in  the  college.  I  sometimes  have  the  feeling  that 
they're  satellite  campuses,  and  the  only  connection 
they  have  with  the  WPI  up  on  the  hill  is  the  necessity 
to  go  up  and  take  tests  now  and  again.  But  the  real 
sense  of  being  an  integral  part  of  the  college 
community  is  lacking,  and  that  worries  me  terribly.  It 
seems  to  me  that  it's  part  of  the  fact  that  we've 
forgotten  what  the  central  role  of  the  fraternity 
should  be. 

"Fraternities  were  started  with  a  great  deal  of 
idealism  and  somehow,  in  the  process  of  expansion 
and  solidification  on  campuses,  they've  lost  a  good 
deal  of  it.  It  seems  to  me  that  if  we  took  a  hard  look 
at  what  the  real  purpose  of  a  fraternity  ought  to  be, 
wherein  lies  the  real  purpose  of  the  system,  if  we 
aimed  at  that,  then  perhaps  the  system  would  again 
attract  the  kind  of  person  that  ought  to  be  participat- 
ing. 

"Right  now,  I'm  inclined  to  be  in  sympathy  with 
the  student  who  says  I  don't  want  to  be  in  a 
fraternity  because  I  haven't  been  convinced  that  the 
fraternities  really  have  something  to  offer  the  student 
now.  And  I'm  sorry  about  it.  I  think  it's  too  bad." 

Alexander  Gordon,  '36,  treasurer  of  Alpha  Epsilon 

Pi:  "I  can  recall  many  years  ago  when  I  was  here, 
some  of  us  said  that  all  this  is  a  glorified  trade  school. 
What  was  lacking?  I'm  not  sure. 

"Certainly  there  were  all  kinds  of  efforts  made  to 
build  up  campus  spirit.  I  think  many  of  us  felt  that 
much  of  the  problem  perhaps  stemmed  from  the  fact 
that  this  was  a  technical  school      just  the  very  nature 
of  the  program,  the  almost  complete  lack  of 
humanities.  Always  busy  with  numbers  and  trying  to 
study  for  the  quiz  at  eight  o'clock  the  next  morning 
.  .  .  this  created  a  much  more  difficult  atmosphere 
than  in  the  typical  liberal  arts  college.  Not  to  say  that 
one  way  is  all  right  and  the  other  is  all  wrong,  but 
there  was  some  of  that  feeling.  Perhaps  some  of  it  still 
exists  today.  1  think  the  steps  that  have  been  taken, 
the  new  WPI  Plan,  the  general  type  of  curricula  which 
have  put  a  lot  more  of  the  humanities  in  the  program, 
can  go  a  long  ways  toward  changing  the  attitude  a 
student  has  toward  WPI.  At  least  I  hope  so." 

WPI 


FRATERNITIES 

AS   HOMEOWNERS 

Landlord  and 
Taxpayer 


W 


HATEVER  ELSE  they  may  be  or  do, 
fraternities  here  and  elsewhere  are  inescapably 
identified  with  the  house.  Fraternities  own  houses, 
and  fraternity  members  live  in  those  houses.  In  their 
capacity  as  homeowners,  fraternities  have  two 
problems:  First,  they  must  compete  with  WPI-owned 
housing.  Second,  they  must  pay  taxes. 

Balancing  the  budget  is  a  difficult  feat  for  all 
homeowners  in  these  days  of  rising  taxes,  sky- 
rocketing heating  and  maintenance  costs,  and  general 
inflation.  The  fraternities  face  all  these  problems,  of 
course,  but  there  are  a  couple  of  added  twists.  Unless 
the  fraternities  are  competitive  with  the  dormitory 
system,  with  comparable  charges  for  room  and  board, 
they  cannot  be  economically  viable  and  would 
inescapably  become  an  elitist  group  of  wealthier 
students.  So  there  is  an  external. constraint  on  what 
they  can  charge.  During  the  1973-74  year,  fraternity 
charges  averaged  about  $1,200,  compared  with 
SI, 175  for  dormitory  rates.  One  big  difference, 
though,  is  that  WPI,  as  a  not-for-profit  educational 
institution,  does  not  pay  taxes.  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  for 
instance,  paid  $8,000  in  property  taxes  last  year. 
With  40  members  living  in  the  house,  that  is  $200  a 
year  in  property  taxes  that  each  person  must  pay  for 
the  privilege  of  living  in  the  fraternity  house.  And 
that,  in  turn,  means  that  the  fraternity  has  $200  less 
per  person  to  spend  on  maintenance  of  the  house,  on 
food,  on  necessary  expenses.  All  this  while  the 
fraternities  are  housing  some  25  percent  of  the 
student  body.  And  they  can't  afford  to  keep  the 
houses  up. 

Frances  Harvey,  '37,  WPI  trustee:  "if  we  talk  about  a 
2,000  student  enrollment,  the  very  planning  of  the 
school  points  out  that  we  cannot  furnish  housing  to 
the  students  with  our  own  buildings.  We  then  get  to 


the  point,  one  I've  made  many  times,  where  I  disagree 
with  the  philosophy  we  have  around  here  for 
recruiting  students.  We  print  a  nice  fancy  catalog.  We 
tell  them  about  the  nice  dormitories,  and  all  of  a 
sudden  at  the  end  of  their  freshman  year  they  find 
out  that  they've  got  to  live  in  a  fire  trap  for  the  next 
three  years  because  the  school  is  not  taking  a  position 
to  supervise  anything  except  its  own  buildings  with 
respect  to  where  we're  forcing  students  to  live. 

"Around  1965,  Phi  Kappa  Theta  made  a  very 
thorough  study  when  it  was  decided  that  the  houses 
we  had  were  wearing  out.  And  we  proved  then,  at  6 
percent  money  and  a  tax  rate  half  of  what  it  is  today, 
that  it  was  an  economic  impossibility  to  build  a  house 
in  modern  design  and  to  have  it  supportable  by 
students  who  were  living  in  it  paying  rates  com- 
petitive with  dorm  room  rents." 

William  Grogan:  "if  the  college  does  not  deign  to 
assume  any  responsibility  for  the  housing  of  students 
who  are  in  fraternities,  which  it  has  not,  then  I  think 
fraternities  will  be  priced  out  of  the  business  because 
of  taxes,  because  of  the  inability  to  take  care  of  then- 
house.  The  cost  of  remodeling,  as  AEPi  and  Phi  Gam 
have  found,  is  atrocious,  because  there  is  not  only  the 
mortgage  but  also  the  incredible  tax  burden  upon 
revaluation.  This  makes  it  really  impossible  now,  I 
think,  for  a  fraternity  to  seriously  consider  major 
construction  or  even  very  significant  remodeling.  I 
think  that's  a  long-term  thing,  but  it's  going  to  catch 
up  with  the  fraternities.  The  college  has  not  taken  the 
route  of  Carnegie  Mellon  University,  Case  Western 
Reserve  University,  and  others,  where  the  fraternities 
were  made  a  part  of  the  college-owned  student- 
housing  system,  becoming  in  effect  a  special  kind  of 
dormitory.  I  think  that  unless  that's  done,  it  will  only 
be  a  matter  of  time  until  we  have  a  big  fire,  and  then 
the  college  will  act.  But  it's  a  shame  we  have  to  wait 
for  that."  ||||l| 


/.     STUDENT  AFFAIRS 
Responsibilty 


Cooperation  and 


THE    FRATERNITIES 
AND   THE   COLLEGE 

Official  Viewpoints 


12 


by  Donald  P.  Reutimger,  Dean  of  Student  Affairs 

Our  fraternities  supply  many  vital  needs  for  nearly  a 
quarter  of  our  students.  Many  of  the  values  of 
fraternity  life  are  so  individualized  and  personal  that 
only  fraternity  members  or  alumni  can  fully 
appreciate  this  experience.  However,  it  is  obvious  to 
all  that  fraternities  can  provide  true  brotherhood  at 
their  best  and  a  choice  of  a  style  of  living  distinct 
from  that  of  commuting,  apartment-living  or 
dormitory  life.  Fraternities  are  a  social  context  in 
which  much  can  be  learned  in  the  give  and  take  of 
interpersonal  relations,  helping  others,  community 
service,  self-reliant  management  of  the  house's  own 
affairs,  all  within  the  camaraderie  of  a  sense  of 
belonging.  For  all  of  these  reasons,  our  fraternity 
system  is  viable  and  well  worth  preserving. 

However,  there  is  a  very  real  question  as  to  how 
many  fraternities  can  be  supported  when  pledges 
must  be  drawn  from  a  relatively  small  student  body. 
Clearly  we  could  not,  for  example,  have  so  many 
fraternities  as  the  University  of  Massachusetts  in 
Amherst,  which  has  about  18  with  800  members 
drawn  from  a  student  body  five  times  larger  than  ours 
in  its  male  population.  We  have  had  some  450 
fraternity  members  in' twelve  fraternities  this  past 
year,  a  number  that  may  shrink  to  eleven  next  year. 

There  also  seems  to  be  evidence  that  two  of  these 
eleven  experienced  light  rushing  last  fall.  An  analogy 
may  help  to  make  our  difficulty  clear:  Only  a  few  of 
twelve  competitors  can  hope  to  derive  much 
satisfaction  from  a  pie  that  can  only  be  cut  into  9  or 
10  pieces.  There  are  only  two  ways  for  us  to  create  a 
larger  pie:  admit  larger  freshman  classes  or  generate 
more  interest  in  fraternity  life  among  the  freshmen 
we  have. 

Over  the  past  seven  years  the  student  body  has 
grown  fairly  rapidly  from  about  1500  to  2000 
students,  a  level  at  which  we  anticipate  no  increase. 
Freshman  classes,  the  rushing  pool,  have  been  469, 
349.  638,  534.  607,  562  and  565.  The  peri  entage  of 
freshmen  joining  fraternities  has  been,  respectively, 

.  67%,  47%,  42%,  38%,  36%,  and  33%.  (A  poll  of 
our  freshmen  prior  to  rushing  indicated  that  31% 
would  join  fraternities;  nationally  we  compare  well 
with  the  figure  of  17%.  which  has  also  been  dropping 


Independence,  maturity,  freedom, 
individual  responsibility  and  the 
right  kind  of  peer  group  influence 
are,  I  think,  what  fraternity  life  can 
foster  at  its  best. 


in  recent  years.)  It  can  readily  be  seen  that  frater- 
nities are  not  so  popular  as  they  were  even  a  half 
dozen  years  ago,  yet  some  changes  in  rushing,  worked 
out  with  the  IFC  and  the  Office  of  Student  Affairs, 
seemed  last  fall  to  stem  the  ebb  tide.  In  essence,  there 
was  much  greater  cooperation  among  fraternities 
which  have  traditionally  been  competitors  rather  than 
cooperators.  The  fraternity  system  as  a  system  was 
strengthened.  It  was  as  though  they  had  realized  that 
they  must  hang  together  to  avoid  hanging  separately. 

It  was  very  gratifying  for  me  to  work  with  the 
IFC,  supplying  an  early  mailing  list  of  the  freshman 
class,  going  over  copy  of  a  mailing  to  parents,  calling 
attention  to  the  values  of  fraternity  life  in  my  annual 
letter  to  all  incoming  freshmen,  and  suggesting 
successfully  that  all  fraternities  rush  first  in  the  dorms 
and  not  sit  back  any  longer  and  simply  wait  for 
freshmen  to  visit  the  houses  each  fall. 

Yet,  in  stemming  the  falling  tide,  it  still  becomes 
apparent  that  there  must  be  about  220  new  freshmen 
interested  in  joining  fraternities  each  year,  and  each 
fraternity  must  get  its  fair  share  of  these  pledges.  (A 
smaller  admitted  freshman  class  would  be  ominous.) 
Otherwise,  some  houses  will  continue  to  be  in 
financial  danger,  and  one  or  two  more  might  fail  until 
the  number  of  houses  declines  to  a  point  where  a 
viable  fraternity  system  reaches  its  level  of  survival 
strength. 


The  fraternity  system  as  a  system 
was  strengthened.  It  was  as  though 
they  had  realized  that  they  must 
hang  together  to  avoid  hanging 
separately. 


But  all  of  this  is  to  speak  only  of  the  problem  of 
numbers.  The  numbers  of  pledges  and  even  current 
brothers  could  fall  as  a  result  of  students  feeling  that 
fraternity  life  is  trivial  or  unimportant  or  detrimental 
to  student  life. 

Last  fall,  after  the  tradition  of  fraternity-Becker 
house  "raids"  had  gotten  out  of  hand  to  the  point 
where  much  damage  and  at  least  one  assault  had 
taken  place,  I  wrote  a  strongly  worded  letter  to  all 
our  fraternities.  I  ended  this  letter  by  saying  that 
"Our  fraternities,  instead  of  remaining  male  bastions 
with  a  locker-room  mentality,  could  aid  in  this 
process  of  growing  up."  Needless  to  say  I  did  not 
enjoy  making  such  an  observation,  and  many 
fraternity  members  took  offense,  to  say  the  least. 
Some  also  thought  that  this  letter  signaled  some  kind 
of  abandonment  of  interest  in  fraternities  by  WPI. 
Far  from  it;  I  would  not  have  written  such  a  strongly 
worded  letter  if  I  did  not  care.  And  when  I  said  that  I 
thought  that  direct  financial  subsidy  of  fraternities  by 
WPI  was  inappropriate,  I  was  speaking  only  of  one 
kind  of  help,  loans  and  subsidies.  Further,  when  I 
told  WPI  Police  not  to  protect  students  from  the 
Worcester  Police,  I  was  only  affirming  the  ordinary 
sense  of  responsibility  which  all  citizens  must  have 
including,  now,  eighteen  year  olds.  Independence, 
maturity,  freedom,  individual  responsibility  and  the 
right  kinds  of  peer  group  influence  are,  I  think,  what 
fraternity  life  can  foster  at  its  best.  I  want  to  see  our 
fraternity  system  strong  and  functioning  at  its  best. 
Then  the  fraternities  will  serve  a  vital  educational  role 
in  life  at  WPI  where  our  goals  depend  so  much  upon 
educating  future  graduates  for  lives  of  social 
responsibility. 


//.     PLANNING:  An  Alternative  Lifestyle 


III.     FINANCES:   Taxes,  Mortgages,  and 
What  Constitutes  a  Dormitory? 


by  Gardner  T.  Pierce,  Director  of  Physical 
Planning  and  Plant  Services 

I  view  the  fraternities  as  an  optional  social  area  that  is 
very  important  to  the  college  life  —  or  at  least  to 
certain  elements  on  campus.  There  are  students  who 
prefer  fraternity  life  and  fraternity  social  events,  and 
certainly  those  are  different  from  what  these  students 
would  experience  living  on  campus  or  living  off 
campus  in  a  room  or  an  apartment  house.  This  is 
what  we've  attempted  to  do.  to  provide  diversity. 
You  can't  satisfy  everyone  with  one  set  of  circum- 
stances. So  we  try  to  develop  alternatives.  This  is  one 
of  the  reasons  for  the  type  of  housing  we  chose  for 
the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller  dormitories  we  just  finished 
building.  An  alternative  to  what  we  already  had. 

So  first  of  all  I  view  the  fraternities  as  meeting  a 
social  need,  for  the  overall  benefit  of  the  college.  And 
then,  down  the  list,  they  meet  a  housing  requirement. 
They  are  filling  somewhere  between  400  and  450 
beds,  and  that's  a  major  part  of  our  housing  needs. 

We  have  no  more  plans  for  building  additional 
student  housing,  if,  for  some  reason,  the  fraternities 
find  they  are  not  able  to  continue  accommodating 
these  400  to  450  students,  then  the  college  will  have 
to  consider  how  to  house  them,  if  the  fraternities 
drop  down  much  below  their  present  level,  then  the 
college  will  have  to  take  some  sort  of  action       either 
operate  their  houses,  or  other  houses,  or  develop 
some  other  form  of  housing. 

But  my  own  personal  feeling  is  that  the  frater- 
nities ought  to  rem, mi  a  very  viable  and  interesting 
aspect  of  the  total  college  life. 


You  can't  satisfy  everyone  with  one 
set  of  circumstances.  So  we  try  to 
develop  alternatives. 


by  David  E.  Lloyd,  Vice  President  for  Business 
Affairs 

A  few  years  ago,  after  an  intensive  study,  we  worked 
with  the  Worcester  tax  assessor's  office  in  developing 
real  estate  tax  abatements  for  the  renovated  or  newly 
built  fraternities  that  were  high  on  the  real  estate  tax 
assessment  list.  These  were  Phi  Gamma  Delta,  Theta 
Chi,  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  and  Alpha  Epsilon  Pi. 

Tax  abatements  were  granted  for  these 
fraternities,  but  this  did  not  solve  all  of  their  financial 
problems.  Lambda  Chi  Alpha,  for  example,  became 
periodically  delinquent  in  their  mortgage  payments 
and  their  real  estate  tax  payments  were  dropping 
behind.  They  also  were  having  difficulty  paying  some 
of  their  operating  bills.  So,  as  an  experiment.  WPI 
developed  a  general  agreement  with  the  Cluverius 
Society  under  which,  in  essence,  WPI  took  over 
ownership  of  mortgaged  fraternity  properties  and 
rented  the  rooms  to  the  students,  thus  turning  these 
buildings  into  dormitories.  As  the  first  experiment 
WPI  took  over  the  Lambda  Chi  Alpha  property  by  a 
legal  arrangement  called  in  lieu  foreclosure. 

Shortly  after  this  it  became  evident  that  the 
Delta  Sigma  Tau  fraternity  members  would  have  to 
move  from  their  house  on  Trowbridge  Road  to  make 
way  for  construction  of  the  Ellsworth  and  Fuller 
dormitories.  WPI  had  just  purchased  a  house  on  8 
Boynton  Street  and  we  worked  out  the  same 
arrangement  with  Delta  Sigma  Tau  as  we  had  with 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  The  College  financed  the 
reconstruction  (with  the  students  assisting  the 
contractor  and  doing  much  of  the  planning  and  some 
work).  That  property  became  tax  exempt  because  it 
also  was  developed  into  a  dormitory. 

I  had  misgivings  frankly  about  this  latter  action, 
anticipating.  I  suppose,  some  of  the  problems  that 
were  developing  with  the  whole  t.ix  base  in  Worces 
ter.  With  our  action  on  Lambda  Chi  the  city  assessor's 
office  agreed  that   12  Boynton  Street  would  indeed 
Income  a  college  dormitory  and  thus  was  .tax  exempt. 
The  forty  people  living  (here  just  happened  lo  be 
Lambda  (Ins  and  they  were  no  different  from  forty 
other  students  who  might  be  living  in  a  section  <>i 

Stoddard.  There  is  .i  difference,  perhaps,  but 

in  him  all)  .ind  legally  the  arrangement  seemed  to  be 
all  right. 


If  a  fraternity  could  not  carry  its 
own  operation,  both  financially  and 
otherwise,  there  had  to  be  problems 
beyond  just  the  tax  base. 


In  any  event,  we  followed  the  same  procedure 
with  Delta  Sigma  Tau.  When  8  Boynton  Street  was 
removed  from  the  tax  rolls,  however,  we  tried  to 
alleviate  future  problems  somewhat  by  indicating  that 
WPI  would  no  longer  take  over  titles  of  fraternities  by 
in  lieu  foreclosure.  If  a  fraternity  could  not  carry  its 
own  operation,  both  financially  and  otherwise,  there 
had  to  be  problems  beyond  just  the  tax  base  that 
were  making  the  operations  financially  and  socially 
difficult. 

Lambda  Chi  Alpha  continued  with  some 
financial  problems  even  though  they  had  their  entire 
tax  burden  removed.  However,  they  are  now  getting 
along  reasonably  well  with  the  help  of  dedicated 
leadership. 

Now  the  problem  is,  what  do  we  do  in  the 
future?  Theta  Chi  fraternity  was  showing  evidence  of 
financial  problems  and  hoped  for  an  in  lieu  fore- 
closure arrangement.  We  had  to  tell  them  that  this 
was  impossible.  We  would  try  to  help  them  with  their 
problems,  but  if  they  wanted  to  retain  all  of  the 
elements  of  the  so-called  fraternity  independence, 
they  were  on  their  own.  There  is  no  way  that  WPI 
could  take  over  their  property  as  had  been  done  with 
the  other  two  houses. 

The  city  tax  assessment  revaluation  was 
developing  and  the  word  came  to  us  that  WPI  could 
quite  likely  end  up  being  taxed  on  all  of  its  dor- 
mitories. It  was  made  perfectly  clear  that  the  former 
"tax  dodge"  was  not  tolerable.  I  could  not  disagree 
with  this  honest  philosophy. 

And  there  are  more  problems,  AEPi  is  financial- 
ly almost  bankrupt.  The  alumni  leadership  came  to  us 
a  year  ago  and  quite  honestly  stated  that  their 
problems  were  insurmountable,  particularly  with  the 
tax  burden.  We  agreed  to  wait  until  this  past  fall,  to 
see  what  would  happen  in  the  rush  period.  Matters 
deteriorated  even  more.  Now  we  have  gone  a  whole 
year  with  no  mortgage  payments,  they  are  in  arrears 
in  property  tax  payments  and  have  many  other  debts. 
It's  impossible  for  them  to  pull  out  of  their  financial 
dilemma  operationally. 

After  studying  all  of  the  possible  options,  the 
Trustee  Finance  and  Investment  Committee  decided 


that  the  best  and  fairest  course  of  action,  in  the  best 
interests  of  both  AEPi  and  WPI,  was  to  foreclose  on 
the  mortgage  which  WPI  holds. 

Now,  either  AEPi  will  find  a  buyer  for  the  house 
at  a  sufficient  price  and  clear  up  the  financial 
situation  that  way,  or  there  will  be  a  public  auction  in 
a  few  months.  At  that  point  WPI  or  any  other 
interested  bidder  has  a  right  to  bid  and  acquire  all 
rights  to  the  property  providing  the  deed  and  title  are 
clear. 

It's  a  shame  that  things  have  developed  this  way. 
The  idea,  which  was  formulated  into  a  policy,  of  WPI 
granting  fraternity  mortgages  began  early  in  the 
1960's,  and  it  was  sound  then.  It  was  designed  to  help 
the  fraternities  upgrade  their  facilities.  But  it  seems  to 
have  created  some  problems  now.  Times  change. 

UIPI 


THE  WPI   FRATERNITIES 

The  Houses  Today 


FRATERNITY:      Alpha  Epsilon  Pi 
ADDRESS:     39  Dean  Street 
PHONE:      757-9927 
PRESIDENT:     Tom  Carnevale 

NO.  MEMBERS:      17 
NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:      8 
CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     40 
LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,150 
LAST  PROPERTY  TAX  BILL:      $9,000 
SPECIAL  PROBLEMS:      money 


16 


FRATERNITY:     Alpha  Tau  Omega 
ADDRESS:     10  Regent  Street 
PHONE:     756-5656 
PRESIDENT:      Peter  Arcoma 

NO.  MEMBERS:      72 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:      18 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:      43 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,100 

HOUSE  OWNER:     AT12  Alumni  Association 


FRATERNITY       Delta  Sigma  Tau 
ADDRESS:      8  Boynton  Street 
PHONE:      755-4139 
PRESIDENT:      Robert  J.  Byron 
NO.  MEMBERS:      37 
NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:      17 
CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:      21 
LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,075 
HOUSE  OWNER:      WPI 


FRATERNITY:      Lambda  Chi  Alpha 

ADDRESS:     12  Boynton  Street 

PHONE:     791-6066 

PRESIDENT:      Mark  R.  Cosenza 

NO.  MEMBERS:     58 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     16 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     45 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,290 

HOUSE  OWNER:     WPI 

SPECIAL  DISTINCTIONS:     28  waterbeds  at  last  count  (highest 

number  on  campus);  boa  constrictor  lived  in  house  during 

A  and  B  terms  (!) 


-    . 

■ 

FRATERNITY:      Phi  Gamma  Delta 

ADDRESS:     99  Salisbury  Street 

PHONE:     752-9581 

PRESIDENT:     James  D.  Aceto,  Jr. 

NO.  MEMBERS:     63 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     20 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     40 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      Comparable  to  dorms 

HOUSE  OWNER:      F.  A.  Morse  Corp. 

LAST  PROPERTY  TAX  BILL:      $8,000 


17 


FRATERNITY:      Phi  Kappa  Theta 
ADDRESS:     26  Institute  Road 
PHONE:     757-9971 
PRESIDENT:      Richard  Newhouse 
NO.  MEMBERS:     90 
NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     32 
CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     55 
LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,200 
OWNER  OF  HOUSE:     Aquinas  Association 
CAMPUS  STEREOTYPE:     Jocks 

SPECIAL  DISTINCTION:     Winner  of  1973  Founder's  Cup  Award  for 
being  best  PKT  chapter  of  65  in  the  country. 


18 


FRATERNITY:      Phi  Sigma  Kappa 

ADDRESS:     11  Dean  Street 

PHONE:     752-9483 

PRESIDENT:      Robert  Brennan 

NO.  MEMBERS:     52 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     28 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     50 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,200 

HOUSE  OWNER:      Kappa  Xi  Alpha  Corp. 


FRATERNITY:      Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon 

ADDRESS:      6  Humboldt  Avenue 

PHONE:     752-9667 

PRESIDENT:     Jeffrey  H.  Moody 

NO.  MEMBERS:      36 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:      14 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:      36 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,200 

HOUSE  OWNER:      Sigma  Alpha  Epsilon  Corp. 


FRATERNITY:      Sigma  Phi  Epsilon 
ADDRESS:     11  Boynton  Street 
PHONE:     798-3735 
PRESIDENT:     John  J.  Fitzgibbons 

NO.  MEMBERS.      47 
NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:      16 
NO.  NON-MEMBER  BOARDERS:      3 
CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:      48 
LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:      $1,233 
HOUSE  OWNER:      Alumni  Board 
CAMPUS  STEREOTYPE:      Jocks 


FRATERNITY:     Sigma  Pi 
ADDRESS:     17  Dean  Street 
PHONE:     757-9308 
PRESIDENT:      Mark  W.  Rockett 
NO.  MEMBERS:     46 
NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     15 
CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     35 
LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:     $1,200 
HOUSE  OWNER:      Psi  Theta  Nu  Corp. 
LAST  PROPERTY  TAX  BILL:      $1,800 


FRATERNITY.     Tau  Kappa  Epsilon 

ADDRESS:     1  Massachusetts  Avenue 

PHONE:        757-9701 

PRESIDENT:      Richard  Mariano 

NO.  MEMBERS:     49 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     23 

NO.  NON-MEMBER  BOARDERS:     3  English  exchange  students 

HOUSE  OWNER:     Zeta-Mu  Corp. 


19 


FRATERNITY:     Theta  Chi 

ADDRESS:     85  Salisbury  Street 

PHONE:     753-9952 

PRESIDENT:      Eric  E.  Paulson 

NO.  MEMBERS:     34 

NO.  PLEDGES  THIS  YEAR:     3 

CAPACITY  OF  HOUSE:     56 

LIVING  COSTS  IN  HOUSE:     $1,400 

HOUSE  OWNER:      Epsilon  Building  Association 

LAST  PROPERTY  TAX  BILL:      $10,000 

CAMPUS  STEREOTYPE:     Joe  Average 


Now  you  see  it, 
now  you  don't 


20 


Color:  That  aspect  of  things  that  is 
caused  by  differing  qualities  of  the  light 
reflected  or  emitted  by  them.  It  may  be 
defined  in  terms  of  the  observer,  or  of 
the  light. 


Most  of  us  are  intuitively  aware  of  what  color  is,  and 
if  we're  scientifically  inclined  we  probably  think  of 
color  in  terms  of  different  wavelengths  of  light. 
That's  the  second  part  of  the  definition  above. 

But  there's  another  kind  of  color,  related  to  the 
first  part  of  the  definition.  It's  called  subjective  color, 
and  it  involves  the  perception  of  color  from  black  and 
white. 

The  most  common  means  for  producing 
subjective  color  is  an  old  scientific  curiosity  called 
Benham's  Top,  a  disc  which  is  half  solid  black  and 
half  a  series  of  black  arcs  (see  the  illustration).  When 
this  is  rotated  at  approximately  six  revolutions  per 
second,  colors  appear.  If  you  cut  out  the  disc  here, 
mount  it  on  a  piece  of  cardboard  for  support,  and 
spin  it,  you  should  observe  the  phenomenon.  (If  no 
motor  is  available,  spin  it  by  hand  on  the  tip  of  a 
pencil.)  When  rotated  in  a  clockwise  direction,  the 
colors  red,  green,  and  blue  will  appear  in  the  inner, 
middle,  and  outermost  arcs,  respectively.  Rotate  the 
disc  in  the  opposite  direction  and  the  red  and  blue 
will  exchange  positions.  This  phenomenon,  known  as 
the  Provost-Fetchner-Benham  effect,  has  been  known 
for  almost  one  hundred  years;  what  causes  it  has  not 
been  known. 

Now  a  WPI  graduate  and  his  faculty  advisor  think 
they  have  found  the  key  to  subjective  color.  Leonard 
Polizzotto,  '70,  first  started  work  on  Benham's  Top 
as  .in  undergraduate  independent  research  project 


with  another  student.  Most  of  his  time  was  spent 
creating  new  patterns  to  produce  various  subjective 
color  sensations,  trying  to  understand  how  the  disc 
worked.  One  early  result  was  the  creation  of  a  black 
and  white  movie  film  which  yielded  subjective  color 
sensations  from  movie  frames  which  were  sequenced 
in  the  same  pattern  as  the  rotating  disc. 

After  graduating,  Lennie  stayed  on  at  WP1  for 
graduate  work  in  electrical  engineering.  He  became 
interested  in  biomedical  engineering  and  decided  to 
do  graduate  research  on  human  subjective  color 
perception.  Since  that  time  he  has  worked  with 
associate  professor  Robert  Peura,  '66,  both  while  in 
school  and  later  while  working  for  AT&T-Long  Lines 
and  (currently)  Polaroid  (where,  contrary  to  your 
expectations,  he  isn't  involved  with  color  at  all,  but 
rather  with  production). 

The  outcome  of  this  work  was  the  presentation  of 
papers  at  two  international  conferences  (one  in 
Goteborg,  Sweden,  in  August  1972;  the  other  in 
Dresden,  East  Germany,  in  August  1973)  and  one 
domestic  conference.  Vision  Research,  an  inter- 
national journal,  has  accepted  a  joint  article  by  Peura 
and  Polizzotto  for  publication. 

SUBJECTIVE  COLOR  -  HOW  DOES  IT  WORK? 

It  appears  from  their  research  that  subjective  color  is 
caused  by  intermittent  visual  stimuli,  as  opposed  to 
real,  or  physical,  color,  which  is  caused  by  steady 
visual  stimuli.  In  other  words,  the  normal  color  that 
we  see  in  everyday  objects  is  not  dependent  on  time 
variations,  or  the  duration  of  lighting.  But  the 
sensation  of  color  can  be  created  by  various  flickering 
patterns  of  black  and  white. 

If  Benham's  Top  is  producing  color  sensations,  it 
must  somehow  be  satisfying  the  three  variables  of 
physical  color.  These  variables  are  hue,   the  gradation 
of  color  (e.g.,  red  vis-a-vis  green);  saturation,  the 
purity  of  the  color,  or  its  mixture  with  white  (e.g., 
red  vis-a-vis  pink);  and  intensity,  the  amount  of  light 
(e.g.,  red  vis-a-vis  maroon).  The  problem  was  to 
determine  how  the  color  variables  could  be  related  to 
what  happens  on  the  disc. 

By  changing  the  arc  length  and/or  position,  the 
subjective  color  changes.  When  the  disc  is  rotated 
backwards,  for  example,  the  red  and  blue  change 
places.  This  obviously  relates  to  hue.  Polizzotto 
decided  to  analyze  the  disc  according  to  an  on-off 
(white-black)  basis.  Plotting  the  on-off  pulses  for  the 
arc  that  gives  the  red  sensation,  taking  the  right  side 
of  the  demarcation  line  between  black  and  white  as 
0°,  produces  a  waveform  that  is  off  for  60°,  on  for 
120°,  and  off  for  180°.  The  degree  amounts  are 
converted  to  time  increments  by  the  six-revolutions- 
per-second  rotation.  But  you  can  flash  a  light  on  and 
off  in  the  same  time  sequence,  and  no  color  sensation 
results.  This  one  variable,  obviously,  isn't  enough.  We 
must  need  all  three. 


BLUE  HUE 


120°  240°  360° 


i        r 


GREEN  HUE 

22 


120°  240°  360c 


RED  HUE 


120c 


I  I 

240° 


i       r 


360° 


SATURATION 


i        i        i        i        i        i        r 

120  240°  360° 


I  I  I 


Between  each  arc  is  a  pulse  which  is  on  for  180° 
and  off  for  180°.  If  this  arc  is  removed,  no  subjective 
color  appears,  and  therefore  the  presence  of  this  pulse 
is  required.  Polizzotto  termed  this  pulse  saturation. 
The  third  variable,  intensity,  is  merely  the  amount  of 
light  reflected  from  the  disc.  It  need  only  be  strong 
enough  to  exceed  the  energy  threshold  of  the  cones 
in  the  retina  of  the  eye. 

Now  that  he  had  isolated  the  color  variables      or 
at  least  their  analogues  —  on  the  disc.  Polizzotto  still 
was  faced  with  the  task  of  explaining  how  the  hue 
and  saturation  waveforms  produced  the  color 
sensations.  Because  the  eye-brain  path  is  a  type  of 
communication  system,  he  used  statistical  com- 
munications theory,  cross-correlation,  to  analyze  the 
waveforms  and  compare  the  signals.  This  showed  that 
each  color  waveform  had  a  distinctive  shape  and 
time-shifts.  Converting  them  to  the  frequency 
domain,  each  color  has  a  distinctive  phase  angle.  This 
implies  that  the  color  information  is  transmitted  in 
the  visual  pathway  by  means  of  an  angle-modulated 
system. 

Applying  this  information  to  current  theories  of 
physical  color  vision  (itself  not  completely  under- 
stood by  any  means),  has  indicated  a  possible 
explanation  for  the  subjective  color  perception.  The 
retina  of  the  eye  contains  receptors  sensitive  to  long, 
middle,  and  short  wavelengths  of  light  (red,  green, 
blue).  These  receptors,  in  turn,  send  information  to 
color  encoders,  of  which  there  are  a  red-green,  a 
blue-yellow,  and  a  black-white.  (For  purposes  of 
simplification  here,  the  various  layers  of  cells  in  the 
retina      bipolar,  amacrine,  etc.  —  are  lumped 
together  under  the  general  term  encoder.)  Since  white 
light  contains  all  colors  of  light,  the  light  reflected 
from  the  rotating  top  stimulates  all  three  receptors 
which  send  information  to  the  black-white  encoder. 
This  encoder,  in  turn,  sends  information  to  the  brain 
which  is  similar  to  the  information  sent  by  the  color 
encoders  when  they  are  stimulated  by  physical  color. 
The  brain  merely  interprets  the  information  it 
receives,  regardless  of  source,  as  color.  And  this  is 
how  the  black-and-white  flickering  is  interpreted  as 
color. 

Because  yellow  light  is  a  mixture  of  red  and  green 
light,  Peura  and  Polizzotto  reasoned  that  if  their 
waveform  analysis  was  correct,  combining  the 
waveforms  lor  red  and  green  should  result  in  a  new 
waveform  representing  an  arc  that  yields  yellow.  And 
this  was  exactly  the  case.  Similar  work  with  the  color 
orange  yielded  positive  results,  further  confirming  (In- 
validity of  their  method  of  analysis. 

Peura  and  Polizzotto  hope  that  their  work  may 
and  their  method  of  examining  color  may  hold  the 
key  to  a  better  understanding  of  just  how  the  e)  e 
perceives  color,  and  how  the  brain  interprets  it. 

I1IPI 


1915 


1932 


your  class 
and  others 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  April  1 ,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information  re- 
ceived after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1910 


Class  Secretary  CHARLES  E.  BARNEY  was 
hospitalized  over  the  holidays,  but  still  was 
able  to  send  in  the  following  news. 

OLIVER  JACOBS  starts  the  New  Year  off 
with  a  bang,  writing  that  he  is  looking  for- 
ward to  "seeing  some  of  the  gang  in  '75 
and  '80."  For  good  measure  he  says, 
"Hooray for  1910."...  LEONARD  HOWELL 
recently  flew  to  San  Francisco  to  attend  his 
grandson's  wedding.  Currently  he  is  living  at 
Foxwood  Drive,  Eastham,  Mass.  02142.  .  .  . 
ALVAN  GROUT's  address  is  Methodist 
House,  St.  Petersburg,  Fla.  He  is  enjoying 
his  new  location  on  the  shores  of  Tampa  Bay. 

ED  HANFF,  after  a  stay  in  the  hospital 
last  summer,  now  feels  as  good  as  usual 
except  for  "usual  old  age."  His  wife,  Tex, 
was  also  hospitalized  but  now  "gets  along 
O.K."  ...  The  GEORGE  MARTINS  of 
Westminster,  Mass.  were  given  a  surprise 
60th  wedding  anniversary  party  attended  by 
100  people  last  November.  "Hap"  is  a 
little  worried  about  joining  the  "Old  Man's 
Club",  but  still  went  out  and  renewed  his 
driving  license  for  another  four  years.  To 
date  the  Martin  family  stands  at  three 
children,  11  grandchildren,  and  "3  1/2  plus" 
great-grandchildren. 

IRVING  and  Clara  PETERS  are  proud  of 
their  grandson  who  graduated  from  college 
last  year.  A  good  athlete  (basketball),  he 
was  on  the  Dean's  list  all  four  years.  Irving 
recently  cracked  his  ribs  in  a  fall,  but  is 
coming  along  better  now.  .  .  .  PAUL  and 
Marion  TWISS  have  given  up  their  car  and 
weaving  loom.  Paul's  main  hobby  now  is 
his  Hammond  organ.  .  .  .  The  MILLARD 
CLEMENTS  are  getting  settled  in  their  new 
home  in  Granby,  Mass.  right  next  to  their 
son's  family.  .  .  .  CARLYLE  A.  ATHERTON 
has  returned  from  West  Germany  and  is  now 
residing  at  Sunny  Acres  Farm  in  Contoo- 
cook,  N.H. 

According  to  the  secretary,  "The  Barneys 
are  in  'Good  condition  for  the  shape  they 
are  in'."  Charles  is  recovering  from  a  suc- 
cessful operation  and  both  he  and  Mildred 
are  looking  forward  to  future  1910  contacts. 
They  wish  to  thank  everyone  who  sent  them 
class  news  over  the  holidays. 


During  his  retirement  CHARLES  B.  HURD 
has  been  specializing  in  collecting  fossil  sea 
shells  and  is  currently  in  charge  of  fossil 
shells  at  the  South  Florida  Museum  in 
Bradenton. 


1926 


The  HAP  WENDINS  write  that  this  has 
been  a  banner  year  as  they  have  enjoyed 
trailer  trips  to  Mexico,  Texas,  California, 
Oregon,  and  Nevada.  At  home  in  Mesa, 
Arizona,  Hap  teaches  classes  in  Creative 
Imagination  and  Beginner  Spanish.  Also 
Hap  was  a  group  leader  and  Barbara  an 
assistant  librarian  for  a  University  of  Buffalo 
extension  course  held  at  the  University  of 
California  last  summer. 


1930 


JOSEPH  H.  COGHILL  reports  that  to  date 
he  has  four  daughters  and  nine  grand- 
children, five  of  them  boys.  .  .  .  IRVING 
JOSEPH,  who  formerly  owned  Irving 
Joseph's  Appliance  Center  in  Worcester,  is 
now  retired  and  living  in  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Fla. 
.  .  .  JOHN  J.  LYONS  has  been  named  district 
highway  engineer  (top  administrative  officer) 
for  the  District  3  division  of  the  Massachu- 
setts Department  of  Public  Works.  He  joined 
the  DPW  in  1  929  in  the  survey  section.  Later 
he  became  a  district  materials  manager  and 
director  of  the  Division  of  Research  and 
Materials.  In  1972  he  was  appointed  deputy 
chief  engineer  for  maintenance,  the  post 
which  he  held  prior  to  his  latest  promotion. 


1931 


ALBERT  M.  DEMONT,  who  recently  retired 
as  manager  of  professional  manpower  de- 
velopment for  GE's  corporate  research  and 
development  operation,  has  been  named 
acting  director  of  cooperative  and  career 
placement  at  Schenectady  (N.Y.)  County 
Community  College.  His  office  is  responsible 
for  the  placement  of  students  in  cooperative 
education  jobs  and  of  college  graduates  in 
permanent  positions. 

In  1932  he  joined  GE  and  spent  many 
years  in  the  naval  ordnance  department. 
Later  he  was  associated  with  the  company's 
general  engineering  laboratory  as  manager 
of  program  development  and  manager  of 
employee  relations.  He  is  a  course  leader  in 
GE's  management  practice  course.  In  1972 
he  was  listed  in  "American  Men  and  Women 
of  Science." 

JOHN  E.  FLETCHER  retired  in  March.  He 
had  been  a  quality  control  engineer  at 
Bryant  Electric  Co.,  division  of  Westing- 
house,  in  Bridgeport,  Connecticut. 


LESTER  N.  LINTNER  is  a  special  projects 
engineer  at  the  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co.  .  .  . 
CONSTANTINE  ("Connie")  J.  ORFANOS, 
project  manager,  General  Electric  Co.  (Elec- 
tric Utility  Equipment  Projects),  was  recently 
elected  president  of  the  New  York  section  of 
the  Society  of  Harvard  Engineers  and  Sci- 
entists. At  the  December  meeting  of  the 
Harvard  Club  of  New  York,  he  introduced  the 
guest  speaker,  Dr.  Thomas  O.  Paine,  a  GE 
senior  vice  president  of  technology  planning 
and  development. 


1935 


KARL  H.  BOHAKER  is  director,  business 
development,  at  AMF  Incorporated  (elec- 
trical products  group),  Alexandria,  Va.  .  .  . 
WENDELL  D.  JEWELL  serves  as  a  senior 
design  engineer  at  Honeywell,  Inc.,  St. 
Petersburg,  Fla. 


1936 


ALLEN  C.  CHASE  is  president  of  Chase 
Pre-cast  Corp.  and  CUPEC  in  North  Brook- 
field,  Mass.  .  .  .  WALTER  G.  DAHLSTROM 
retired  January  1  from  U.S.  Steel  Corp., 
Worcester   Works,  where  he  was   division 

chief  of  Applied  Research L.  BREWSTER 

HOWARD  currently  serves  as  vice  president 
of  American  Saw  &  Mfg.  Co.,  East  Long- 
meadow,  Mass.  .  .  .  FRED  HYATT  works  at 
Ewing  Technical  Design,  Hicksville,  N.Y. 


1937 


Presently  GORDON  F.  CROWTHER  is  engi- 
neering personnel  administrator  at  Factory 
Insurance  Association,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
MORTON  S.  FINE  of  West  Hartford,  Conn., 
was  recently  named  a  director  of  Henry 
Souther  Engineering  Co.  He  serves  as  presi- 
dent of  Morton  S.  Fine  &  Associates,  Inc., 
Bloomfield,  Conn.  A  registered  engineer  and 
land  surveyor  in  Connecticut,  Massachu- 
setts, New  York,  New  Jersey,  and  New 
Hampshire,  he  is  also  a  registered  landscape 
architect  in  Connecticut  and  Massachusetts 
and  a  registered  planner  in  New  Jersey. 


1938 

Dr.  ARTHUR  E.  MARTELL  has  been  ap- 
pointed a  distinguished  professor  in  the 
chemistry  department  at  Texas  A  &  M  Uni- 
versity, College  Station. 


1939 


1943 


1950 


WILDER  R.  CARSON  has  retired  from  the 
U.S.  Army  Munitions  Command,  Dover, 
N.J.,  and  is  now  traveling  throughout  the 
U.S.,  Canada,  and  Mexico. 


1940 


CLYDE  L.  GERALD  is  with  Chesapeake 
Instrument  Corp.,  Glen  Burnie,  Md.  .  .  . 
RUSSELL  A.  LOVELL,  JR.  is  the  author  of  a 
new  book,  Thornton  W.  Burgess,  which 
includes  many  photos,  genealogical  charts, 
and  maps  of  the  areas  which  the  young 
Burgess  knew  so  well  on  Cape  Cod.  The 
book  also  contains  an  extensive  insight  into 
the  man  who  later  influenced  millions  of 
young  readers.  It  is  being  published  in  con- 
junction with  the  town  of  Sandwich 
(Mass.)  Thornton  W.  Burgess  Centennial 
which  is  being  celebrated  this  year.  Mr. 
Lovell,  who  resides  at  9  Jonathan  Lane, 
Sandwich,  Mass.  02563,  is  chairman  of  the 
Sandwich  Historical  Commission. 


1941 


CARL  W.  BETTCHER,  JR.,  owner  of  the 
50-man  production  machine  shop,  Van 
Dusen  and  Meyer,  Inc.,  for  eight  years,  has 
just  moved  into  a  new  30,000  square  foot 
plant  in  Shelton,  Conn.  The  Bettchers  are 
the  parents  of  two  teenage  daughters.  .  .  . 
ALVIN  A.  LUCE  currently  serves  as  district 
sales  manager  at  the  Torrington  Co., 
Torrington,  Conn. 


HENRY  C.  DURICK.  JR.  has  retired  after  20 
years  with  FMC  Corp.,  Lakeland,  Fla.  He  is 
now  doing  consulting  work,  a  recent  assign- 
ment taking  him  to  Cyprus.  .  .  .  JOSE  L. 
ZARAGOZA  is  currently  a  nuclear  facilities 
development  engineer  with  the  Navy  De- 
partment in  Portsmouth,  N.H. 


1944 


DAVID  M.  FIELD  works  as  supervisor- 
airframes  design  for  Boeing-Vertol  Co., 
Philadelphia,  Pa. 


GEORGE  E.  ENGMAN  is  employed  as  a 
product  support  engineer  at  Digital  Equip- 
ment Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Currently 
DAVID  G.  HUMPHREY  works  as  a  regional 
sales  engineer  at  Sprague  Meter  Division  of 
Textron  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  He  writes  that 
he  is  involved  with  Natural  Gas  Utilities, 
and  State  and  Federal  Public  Utilities  Com- 
missions in  Pennsylvania,  New  Jersey, 
Delaware,  Maryland,  D.C.,  and  Virginia.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  F.  SHANNON  has  been  named 
senior  research  engineer  for  the  Central  Re- 
search Department  of  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton, 
Conn.,  a  manufacturer  of  antibiotics,  pre- 
scription drugs,  and  industrial  chemicals. 
Formerly  he  was  engineer  in  charge  of  de- 
sign for  Pfizer's  central  research  pilot  plant. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01B05 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1942 


PAUL  C.  DISARIO  has  been  named  director 
of  the  newly  formed  Industrial  Division  at 
Burns  and  Roe  Inc.,  Paramus,  N.J.  Pre- 
viously he  was  the  chief  construction  and 
engineering  executive  responsible  for  proj- 
ects involving  laboratories,  material  handling 
facilities,  and  numerous  types  of  process 
plants.  .  .  .  ERIC  ESSEN  was  recently  ap- 
pointed a  legislative-membership  chairman 
for  National  Small  Business  Association,  the 
Washington-based  trade  organization  which 
represents  500  different  types  of  industry 
and  commerce.  He  is  a  director  for  General 
Business  Services  in  the  area  of  North  Attle- 
boro,  Mansfield,  Norton,  and  Easton,  Mass. 
He  has  had  over  20  years  of  experience  in 
the  management  of  local  and  nationally 
known  corporations.  .  .  .  RUSSELL  C. 
PROCTOR  is  project  manager  at  Rust 
Engineering  Co.,  Birmingham,  Ala.  .  .  . 
HOWARD  C.  WARREN,  chief  executive 
officer  and  chairman  of  the  Riley  Co., 
Skokie,  III.,  and  its  subsidiary,  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.,  Worcester,  became  president  of  the 
company  in  January 


1945 


HAROLD  FLEIT  has  retired  as  vice  president 
of  marketing  at  Dorr-Oliver,  Inc.,  Stamford, 
Conn. 


1946 


JOHN  J.  LANDERS  is  operations  manager 
at  Off-Track  Betting  Corp.,  New  York  City. 


1949 


JAMES  M.  GENSER  serves  as  engineering 
manager  at  Processes  Research,  Inc., 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 


Munro,  '51 


1951 


WILLIAM  J.  CUNNEEN  has  been  appointed 
assistant  chief  control  systems  engineer  at 
Stone  &  Webster.  He  will  be  responsible  for 
computer  systems  and  studies  groups. 
Cunneen  is  District  I  vice  president  of  the 
Instrument  Society  of  America. . . .  RICHARD 
E.  HOWARD  is  manager  of  Winkfield  Engi- 
neering Co.,  Inc.,  Medway,  Mass.  .  .  .  DUN- 
CAN W.  MUNRO  was  recently  elected 
secretary  of  the  American  Cemetery  Asso- 
ciation (ACA).  He  has  served  as  a  director 
of  ACA,  written  extensively  for  the  associa- 
tion's journal,  and  served  as  program  chair- 
man of  the  1 972  ACA  conference  in  Martin- 
ique, F.W.I.  Since  1967  he  has  been  super- 
intendent of  historic  Mount  Auburn  Cemetery 
in  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROGER  E.  WYE  is 
vice  president,  program  management,  at 
Amecom  Division/Litton  Industries,  College 
Park,  Maryland. 


Wyman-Gordon  is  the  country's  out- 
standing producer  of  forged  compo- 
nents for  America's  key  industries. 
Wyman-Gordon  has  supplied  forgings 
for  virtually  every  aircraft  in  the  skies 
today,  as  well  as  for  the  Saturn  and 
other  space  boosters.  Equally  important 
is  its  production  of  vital  components 
for  nuclear  and  turbine  power  plants, 
sea  and  undersea  vessels,  trucks,  trac- 
tors and  construction  equipment. 

Research  is  a  hallmark  of  Wyman- 
Gordon;  its  Research  and  Development 
teams  have  long  been  recognized  as  in- 
dustry leaders  in  the  developmentof  new 
techniques  for  advanced  materials  such 
as  titanium  and  other  space-age  alloys. 


WYMAN  -  GORDON' 


25 


1952 


1960 


ROBERT  A.  MEYER  is  now  a  senior  group 
engineer  at  Martin  Marietta  Corp.,  Orlando, 
Florida. 


1953 


SIDNEY  R.  HARVEY  has  been  named 
technical  service  manager  for  the  Elastomers 
and  Polymer  Additives  Department  of  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid  Co.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  technical  service  in 
rubber  chemicals,  Factice,  specialty  elas- 
tomers and  plastics  additives.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
J.  HASNERL  is  now  an  engineering  project 
manager  for  Bendix  Corp.  in  Newport  News, 
Va.  .  .  .  CHARLES  E.  HORNE  works  as  a 
senior  product  engineer  at  the  Torrington 
(Conn.)  Co.  .  .  .  GEORGE  L.  ROUSSEAU, 
SIM,  has  been  appointed  vice  president  of 
freight  car  engineering  for  the  Pullman 
Standard  Division  of  Pullman,  Inc.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1 940  and  previously  served 
as  a  director  of  freight  car  engineering. 


1957 


Presently  ALLAN  T.  DEVAULT  serves  as 
director  of  standard  products  at  General 
Automation,  Inc.,  Anaheim,  Calif.  .  .  . 
PASCAL  A.  MANCINI  was  recently  pro- 
moted to  manufacturing  manager  of  the 
Industrial  Chemical  Division  of  Stauffer 
Chemical  Co.  at  the  firm's  corporate  office 
in  Westport,  Conn. 


1958 


DR.  DAVID  S.  CRIMMINS  is  currently  a 
full-time  student  at  the  University  of  Penn- 
sylvania School  of  Dental  Medicine  partici- 
pating in  a  24-month  pilot  program  to  get 
people  with  PhD's  trained  as  dentists.  .  .  . 
BRUCE  B.  STORMS  is  a  stockbroker  with 
Kidder,  Peabody  &  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York 
City.  He  is  also  a  partner  in  Storms  Harvey 
Equipment  Co. 


1959 


RONALD  L.  MERRILL  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  at  Minnesota  Mining  &  Mfg.  Co. 
(3M),  St.  Paul,  Minn.  .  .  .  NEIL  A.  M. 
PETERS  is  a  self-employed  consultant  in 
Phoenix,  Arizona. 


JAMES  R.  BUCHANAN  holds  the  position 
of  New  York  district  manager  at  Shell 
Chemical  Co.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  DR. 
JOEL  I.  LEONARD  is  now  a  senior  bio- 
medical research  engineer  with  General 
Electric  in  Houston,  Texas.  He  has  been 
working  with  NASA  on  bioengineering 
analysis  of  physiological  control  systems 
and  Skylab  medical  experiments.  Last  year 
he  designed  and  built  an  ecological,  self- 
sufficient  house.  .  .  .  RONALD  F.  POKRAKA 
serves  as  regional  sales  manager  at  Fibre- 
board  Corp.,  Englewood  Cliffs,  N.J.  .  .  .  DR. 
HOWARD  A.  SHOLL,  who  is  an  assistant 
professor  at  the  University  of  Connecticut,  is 
currently  on  leave  at  the  University  of  Edin- 
burgh in  Scotland  for  the  1973-74  aca- 
demic year WILLIAM  M.  SPRY  works  as 

senior  engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Maynard,  Mass. 


1961 


DANIEL  D.  GELLER  is  assistant  Washington 
metropolitan  coordinator  at  the  U.S.  En- 
vironmental Protection  Agency  in  Arlington, 
Va.  .  .  .  GARO  PAPAZIAN  works  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard.  Mass.  .  .  . 
STEPHEN  D.  TRITTER  is  principal  pro- 
grammer at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  May- 
nard, Mass. 


1962 


JORGE  H.  CARVAJAL  is  now  Subdirector 
Estudios  Tecnicos  at  Carvajal  &  Cia,  Colom- 
bia. .  .  .  Presently  WILLIAM  J.  SHEPHERD 
works  at  McGraw-Hill,  Inc.,  New  York 
City.  .  .  .  PHILIP  DeCAPRIO  was  recently 
elected  a  legislative  council  member  (6th 
district)  in  Hamden,  Conn.  He  is  an  elec- 
trical engineer  with  the  Northeast  Utilities 
Service  Co.  and  also  serves  as  vice  president 
of  the  Dunbar  Hill  PTA.  He  is  a  professional 
engineer  in  the  state  of  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
PETER  J.  MARTIN  is  the  general  manager, 
J.  Derenzo  Co.,  Needham,  Mass. 


1963 


DR.  ANTHONY  E.  ALLEGREZZA,  JR.  has 
joined  the  materials  research  and  consulting 
firm  of  FRL  (an  Albany  International  com- 
pany) as  a  senior  research  associate.  At 
FRL  in  Dedham,  Mass.,  he  will  be  active  in 
the  development  of  hollow-fiber  filter  sys- 
tems for  industrial  water-pollution  control 
and  water  desalination  processes.  Formerly 
he  was  doing  postdoctoral  work  at  the 
University  of  Wisconsin  and  also  was 
affiliated  with  duPont's  Film  Department  at 
Buffalo,  NY.  He  is  a  member  of  VITA 
(Volunteers  in  Technical  Assistance),  an 
organization  which  helps  the  developing 
countries  of  the  free  world.  .  .  .  JOSEPH 
BELLOFATTO  serves  as  a  staff  engineer  at 
Itek  Corp.,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  THOMAS 
CECHILE  is  a  senior  structural  engineer  at 
Gilbert  Associates,  Inc.,  Reading,  Pa.  .  .  . 


ROBERT  S.  CURRY  holds  the  position  of 
service  planning  representative  for  IBM  in 
Rochester,  Minn. 

RUSSELL  E.  HOKANSON  is  currently  a 
shift  supervisor  at  E.  I.  duPont  de  Nemours  in 
Aiken,  S.C.  .  .  .  RONALD  E.  LEMANSKY 
has  been  promoted  to  manufacturing 
manager — precision  and  specialty  products, 
of  the  Fafnir  Bearing  Company,  New  Britain, 
Conn.  He  joined  the  company  in  1963  and 
for  the  last  four  years  has  served  as  super- 
intendent of  the  Super  Precision  Bearing 
Division.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  MANCUSO,  head  of 
the  Management  Engineering  Department, 
at  WPI,  has  written  a  new  book.  Fun  and 
Guts:  the  Entrepreneur's  Philosophy,  which 
was  recently  published  by  Addison-Wesley 
Publishing  Company,  Inc.  Mancuso  has 
served  as  director  of  eight  small  businesses 
and  as  a  consultant  for  over  300  companies 
in  the  past  seven  years.  .  .  .  National  Life  In- 
surance Co.,  Montpelier,  Vt.,  employs  DR. 
WILLIAM  J.  SAVOLA,  JR.  as  a  security 
analyst.  .  .  .  KEIVAN  TOWFIGH  is  now 
president  of  his  own  manufacturing  com- 
pany, the  Rangine  Corporation,  West  Med- 
ford,  Mass.  His  firm  deals  with  aluminum 
shelving  and  extruded  aluminum  devices. 
Previously  he  was  on  the  faculty  of  Tufts 
University  and  an  employe  of  Hewlett- 
Packard  in  Medford. 

Anyone  interested  in  viewing  an  exciting 
Super-8  color  motion  picture  film  starring 
JOE  MANCUSO,  BILL  ZINNO,  DON 
ROBERTSON,  ROBERT  MAYNARD,  RICH- 
ARD IACOBUCCI,  CHARLES  GODDARD, 
JOHN  GEFFKEN,  JAMES  KELLY,  JOHN 
LAWSON,  BILL  NEWHALL,  KENNY 
BACKER,  JOHN  SISTARE,  MARCEL 
CLAVIEN,  and  many  other  classmates  and 
spouses  should  contact  Dr.  RICHARD 
IACOBUCCI  at  Roctronics  Entertainment 
Lighting,  Inc.,  22  Wendell  St.,  Cambridge, 
Mass.  02138.  For  $3  the  film  will  be  lent  to 
any  classmate  who  wishes  to  see  this 
never-to-be-forgotten  silent  classic  of  the 
10th  Reunion  of  the  Class  of  1963.  A  tour 
of  the  campus  showing  the  new  library, 
auditorium,  and  science  building  plus 
scenes  of  Lincoln  Square  and  the  new  City 
Hall  Plaza  are  also  included  in  the  20- 
minute  film. 


1964 


FREDERICK  O.  BORGESON  is  a  senior 
engineer  at  Raytheon  Co.,  Wayland,  Mass. 
...  DR.  VICTOR  S.  DOLAT  was  a  co-author 
of  "L-band  reflective-array  compressor  with 
a  compression  ratio  of  5120,"  which  was 
used  as  a  reference  for  the  article  "SAW 
Technology"  (Surface  Acoustic  Waves) 
which  appeared  in  the  Dec. /Jan.  '74  issue 
of  Microwave  Systems  News.  .  ,  .  Presently 
PETER  R.  FENNER  serves  as  applications 
marketing  manager  at  Systems  Engineering 
Labs,  Ft.  Lauderdale,  Fla.  .  .  .  DAVID  L 
GENDRON  is  production  supervisor  at 
Monsanto  Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass. 


1974  ENGINEERING 


Set  yourself 
down  where 
the  living 
is  great,  too. 


i  V/ 


-« 


»sfc 


* 


•tfQhcr&mmi**- 


IRE  mmT  "~ 


Naturally,  when  you  settle  down  to  a  career,  you  want 
to  do  it  where  you'll  also  enjoy  living.  That's  Sikorsky 
in  Stratford,  Connecticut,  home  of  the  famous 
American  Shakespeare  Festival,  set  amid  woody, 
hilly  country  near  Long  Island  Sound,  within  easy 
access  of  New  York  City. 

And  naturally,  you  want  to  be  where  your  long-term 
career  prospects  are  excellent.  That's  Sikorsky  too. 
We're  in  the  forefront  of  advanced  technology  for 
VTOL  (Vertical  Take-Off  &  Landing)  aircraft,  at  a  time 
when  these  remarkable  craft  are  being  increasingly 
utilized  commercially— in  construction,  short-haul 
transportation,  exploration,  film  making,  firefighting, 
traffic  control  and  other  areas. 

Yes,  VTOL  technology  is  definitely  afield  of  the  future 
—yours,  if  you  like.  At  Sikorsky  you'll  enjoy  a 
stimulating  professional  environment  where  your 
ability  is  encouraged,  recognized  and  rewarded, 


mm 

^-^■fBy. 

Bt^T^'if^il 

\m§&?& 

^   r« 

Ys7^~\ 

KJ?..  m  -^Nj 

fc>^  -Xx       I 

ja 

[                   1 

HV^BHk 

s & 


where  your  career  can  really  take  off. 

We're  now  offering  opportunities— at  highly 
competitive  starting  salaries  and  excellent  benefits— 
for  Aeronautical,  Mechanical  and  Electrical 
engineers  in  the  following  areas: 

DESIGN  (aircraft  structures;  propulsion  systems; 
transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight  control 
systems;  electrical/electronic  systems). 

TEST  AND  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads,  dynamic, 
stress,  mass  properties,  reliability/maintainability; 
electrical/electronic  systems;  technical  computing). 

MANUFACTURING  ENGINEERING  (planning, 
methods,  processes). 

For  further  information,  see  your  Placement  Office 
for  our  brochure  and  the  date  of  our  forthcoming 
campus  interviews.  Or  write  directly  to 
Mr.  Leo  J.  Shalvoy,  Professional  Placement. 


Sikorsky  Rircraft 

STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT    06602 


U 

JITED  Ai 


DIVISION  OF  UNITED  AIRCRAFT  CORP 


An  Fnnal  ("Innnrhinitv/  Fmnlnwor  M  A   F 


28 


F.  CLARK  GESSWEIN  holds  the  position 
of  communications  specialist  at  the  Army 
Warrentown  (Va.)  Training  Center.  Last 
summer  he  returned  from  Manila  after 
spending  three  years  there  with  the  Diplo- 
matic Telecommunications  Service  which 
was  headquartered  at  the  American  Em- 
bassy. .  .  .  GARY  GOSHGARIAN,  who 
teaches  science  fiction  at  Northeastern  Uni- 
versity, Boston,  was  a  speaker  at  Technicon 
II,  a  science-fiction  convention  held  at  WPI 
during  Intersession. 

TERRANCE  B.  HARRIS  serves  as  a  senior 
field  sales  engineer  for  Union  Carbide  Corp., 
Molecular  Sieve  Dept.,  Tulsa,  Oklahoma.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  E.  MOURNIGHAN  received  his 
MS  in  chemical  engineering  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Akron  in  December.  .  .  .  BRIAN 
SINDER  is  now  project  manager  at  Fairfield 
(Conn.)  University.  .  .  .  PAUL  B.  WATSON 
is  studying  law  at  the  University  of  Maine 
in  Portland. 


1967 


1968 


1965 


Married:  PETER  D.  CHRISTENSEN  and  Miss 
Lorraine  Irene  Morang  on  December  15, 
1973  in  Gorham,  Maine.  The  bride  is  a 
graduate  of  the  University  of  Maine.  Her 
husbandteachesmathematicsat  Lake  Region 
High  School,  Naples,  Me. 

PETER  J.  BOWES  works  for  Huron  Ce- 
ment Co.,  Southfield,  Mich,  as  a  masonry 
representative  for  northeast  Ohio.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  J.  DeSIMONE  has  been  pro- 
moted to  corporate  banking  officer  in  the 
Hartford  Corporate  Department  of  the  Hart- 
ford (Conn.)  National  Bank  and  Trust.  He 
went  to  HNB  in  1972  from  the  Hamilton 
Standard  Division  of  UAC,  where  he  had 
been  a  chemical  engineer.  He  has  an  MBA 
in  finance  from  the  University  of  Hartford.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  R.  JAMESON  is  a  production 
design  engineer  for  Ford  Motor  Co.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  A.  JOBERT  works  as  general  fore- 
man at  the  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  J.  KOST  is  now  a  field  supervisor 
at  Hartford  Electric  Light  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  TERRY  TRACY  works  at  RCA  in  Prince- 
ton, N.J.  He  recently  received  his  master's 
degree  from  the  University  of  Michigan. 


1966 


ROGER  J.  ARMATA  is  a  methods  super- 
visor at  the  Torrington  Co.  in  Connecticut. 
.  .  .  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Mountain  View, 
Ca.,  employs  DAVID  M.  BURWEN  as  a  sales 
representative.  .  .  .  JOACHIM  W.  DZIALLAS 
serves  as  general  manager  for  Carl  Edelmann 
GMBH,  Heidenheim,  West  Germany.  .  .  . 
Currently  CAMERON  W.  HYDE  works  as  dis- 
trict sales  engineer  at  the  Torrington  (Conn.) 
Co.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  T.  PORTANOVA  is  a  mar- 
ket/product specialist  at  Digital  Equipment 
Co  ,  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  The  Massachusetts 
Division  of  Water  Pollution  Control,  Boston, 
employs  FRANK  P.  ROBINSON  as  a  senior 
sanitary  engineer  STUART  R.  ROSELLE 

is  a  resident  engineer  at  Central  Illinois 
Publir.  S':rvif.»:  in  Newton,  Illinois. 


Married:  JOHN  A.  FACCA  and  Miss  Jane 
Ann  Conlon  on  December  22,  1973  in  New 
Britain,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  attending 
New  Britain  General  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  Her  husband  works  at  Rowland 
Development  Corp.,  Kensington,  Conn.  .  .  . 
HARRY  J.  VAILLETTE  to  Miss  Judith  Ann 
Cloutier  last  fall  in  Leominster,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Vaillette  graduated  from  Salter 
Secretarial  School.  The  groom  is  employed 
by  Vaillette  Electric  Co.,  Leominster. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  WAYNE  M.  CHIAP- 
PERINI  their  second  child,  Kristen  Jan,  on 
October  15,  1973.  Wayne,  who  is  resident 
engineer  of  the  Water  and  Sewer  Commission 
in  Waterford,  Conn.,  is  currently  in  charge  of 
a  $6  million  water  program  and  proposed 
$30  million  town  sewer  project. 

EARL  D.  BERRY,  SIM,  was  recently 
elected  to  the  new  position  of  vice  president 
for  administration  of  Woodbury  &  Co., 
Worcester.  He  had  been  assistant  treasurer 
and  director  of  customer  relations.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  T.  BLANCHARD  has  been  pro- 
moted to  engineering  manager  of  the  Pneu- 
matic Ejector  Division  of  CPC  Engineering 
Corporation.  In  1971  he  started  work  at  the 
company  as  a  project  engineer.  .  .  .  EDWARD 
J.  BOTWICK,  who  recently  received  his  Juris 
Doctor  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
Law  School,  has  joined  the  law  firm  of  King, 
DuBeau  and  Ryan  in  Rockville,  Conn.  He 
belongs  to  the  Connecticut  and  American 
Bar  Associations. 


DeSimone,  '65 


DR.  ROGER  L.  GARIEPY  is  a  scientific 
systems  analyst  for  Air  Products  and  Chemi- 
cals, Inc.,  Allentown,  Pa.  .  .  .  FRANK  T. 
JODAITIS,  the  new  administrator  of  the 
water  and  sewer  department  in  Manchester, 
Conn.,  previously  was  with  HUD  in  the  Hart- 
ford area  as  a  contract  administrator.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  A.  KENNEDY  is  a  student  at  North- 
eastern University,  Boston.  .  .  .  DHAVAL  R. 
KIKANI  works  at  Ford  Motor  Co.,  Dearborn, 
Mich.  .  .  .  ARVIND  J.  PATEL  serves  as  a 
product  design  engineer  at  Ford  Motor  Co. 
Also  at  Ford  is  DINESH  C.  SHAH,  who 
holds  the  post  of  product  design  engineer. 
.  .  .  JOHN  H.  SOULLIERE  has  been  ap- 
pointed Northeastern  District  Sales  Manager 
for  Power  Systems  at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.) 
Company.  He  joined  the  company  in  1969 
as  a  sales  engineer  and  has  specialized  in 
power  systems.  From  1971  to  1973  he  was 
field  application  specialist  in  the  power  divi- 
sion. He  is  currently  based  in  the  Boston 
regional  office. 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  S.  MAZUR,  a 
son,  Jeremy  Adam,  on  August  31,  1973. 
John  is  an  applications  engineer  for  Wallace 
&  Tiernan  in  Belleville,  N.J.  ...  to  Mr.. and 
Mrs.  DAVID  H.  RICE,  a  son,  Jeffrey  Stephen, 
on  December  13,  1973.  Rice  is  an  informa- 
tion system  staff  member  at  Western  Electric, 
Newark,  N.J. 

DONALD  P.  BERGSTROM  has  been  pro- 
moted to  area  engineer  for  the  Wilmington 
office  of  Dufresne-Henry  Engineering  Corp. 
in  Vermont.  .  .  .  NORMAN  E.  BRUNELL, 
who  works  in  the  patent  department  of  the 
Foxboro  (Mass.)  Company,  passed  the 
Massachusetts  Bar  Examination  last  Novem- 
ber. .  .  .  WILLIAM  E.  CATTERALL,  JR.  is  a 
product  design  engineer  at  Ford  Motor  Co., 
Dearborn,  Mich.  .  .  .  ROBERT  V.  GEMMER 
received  his  PhD  April  from  Stanford 
University.  He  has  accepted  a  position  as 
Postdoctoral  Research  Associate  in  the  De- 
partment of  Chemistry  at  Johns  Hopkins 
University,  Baltimore,  Md.  .  .  .  ROBERT  J. 
HORANSKY  has  been  appointed  engineer  in 
the  Northeast  Utilities  engineering  depart- 
ment's computer  application  section.  Earlier 
he  had  been  an  assistant  engineer  in  the 
same  department....  MICHAEL  A.  DiPIERRO 
of  Polyform  Corporation  has  announced  that 
the  corporation  has  merged  with  Foam  En- 
gineering and  that  the  new  facilities  are  now 
at  69  Milk  St.,  Westboro,  Mass.  Mike  also 
runs  Auto-Tech,  Inc.,  a  chain  of  do-it-your- 
self auto  service  centers.  During  Intersession 
in  January,  Auto-Tech  hosted  over  a  hundred 
WPI  students  enrolled  in  auto  servicing 
courses,  thanks  to  Mike. 


1969 


Married:  DANIEL  C.  POND  to  Miss  Barbara 
M.  Weller  in  Silver  Spring,  Maryland  on 
November  1  7,  1  973.  Among  the  groomsmen 
were  JAMES  ATKINSON  and  BARRY  SHIF- 
FRIN.  Mrs.  Pond  teaches  in  the  Mont- 
gomery County  school  system  in  Maryland. 
Her  husband  is  employed  at  the  Johns 
Hopkins  University  Applied  Physics  Labo- 
ratory. .  .  .  BERNARD  WOOD  and  Miss 
Patricia  Dussault  in  Oxford,  Massachusetts 
on  December  14,  1973.  The  bride  is  a 
licensed  practical  nurse.  The  groom  is  with 
Stone  and  Webster  in  Boston. 

Born:  Recently  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN 
HISCOCK  a  daughter,  Lisa.  Hiscock  is  chief 
engineer  in  the  Second  Water  District  in 
Norwalk,  Conn. 

FRANCIS  P.  ARCHAMBEAULT  is  an 
instructor  at  Worcester  Junior/CNECT, 
Worcester.  .  .  .  ROGER  C.  DENNISON  works 
as  a  project  engineer  at  Hewlett-Packard, 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  VALLABHDAS  V. 
KANTESARIA  works  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Combustion  Engineering,  Inc., Windsor, Conn. 
. . .  ROBERT  E.  NAJEMY,  JR.  teaches  at  Haw- 
thorne House  Day  Care,  Roxbury,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Currently  GREGG  POLLACK  serves  as  dis- 
trict sales  manager  for  Canon  USA,  Inc.,  Lake 
Success,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ROBERT  L.  SIMONDS 
works  at  United  Engineers,  Inc.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
JOHN  S.  THOMPSON,  JR.  is  manager  of 
Continental  Investment  Corp.,  Boston. 


WESTERN  ELECTRIC  REPORTS" 


High  intensity 
Assembled  focused  infrared 
jar  cover  light 


A  cutaway  view  of  the  new  lead-acid  battery.  For  use  in 
the  Bell  System,  four  types— each  with  a  different  ampere- 
hour  capacity— will  replace  the  60  configurations  currently 
in  use  over  the  same  capacity  range. 


In  the  sealing  process,  focused  infra-red  light  is  absorbed 
in  a  carbon  black  coating  at  the  jar-cover  interface,  caus- 
ing localized  melting  of  the  plastic. 


The  positive  grids  are 
designed  so  that  as  cor- 
rosive growth  occurs 
the  space  between 
hoops  remainsconstant. 
Thus  contact  with  the 
paste  is  maintained  and 
electrical  capacity  ac- 
tually increases  with  age 
as  corrosion  produces 
additional  lead-dioxide 
material. 


Developing  a  new  lead-acid  battery. 


Every  year,  Bell  System  telephone  companies 
spend  over  $30  million  to  buy  and  maintain 
the  lead-acid  batteries  they  use  as  interme- 
diate sources  of  standby  power  during 
emergencies. 

So  they  know  just  how  susceptible  all 
lead-acid  batteries  are  to  problems  caused 
by  corrosion.  Problems  such  as  gradual  loss 
of  capacity,  short-  circuits  and  cracking  that 
could  result  in  acid  leaks  and  occasional  fires. 

That's  why  Bell  Labs  and  Western  Elec- 
tric engineers  recently  undertook  the  first 
major  improvements  on  what  is  essentially  a 
100-year-old  design. 

The  result:  a  revolutionary,  cylindrical 
lead-acid  battery  with  a  jar  and  cover  fabri- 
cated from  an  improved  flame-retardant,  im- 
pact-resistant polyvinylchloride.  The  bond 
between  jar  and  cover  is  leakproof  due  to  a 
new  infra-red  sealing  process. 

Inside  the  battery  are  circular,  cone- 
shaped  grids  cast  of  pure  lead  rather  than  a 
lead  alloy,  then  stacked  horizontally  in  a 
self-supporting  structure.  Positive  grids  are 
cast  with  large  grain-size  to  minimize  corro- 
sion. They're  then  filled  with  a  paste  (tetra- 
basic  lead  sulfate)  whose  rod-like  particles 
interlock  for  maximum  mechanical  stability. 

These  new  features  required  new  manu- 
facturing techniques.  For  example,  how 
could  potential  suppliers  best  mass-produce 
positive  plates  of  the  required  grain-size  and 
paste  the  grids  rapidly  and  efficiently,  given 
their  conical  shape  and  the  new  oxide  ma- 
terial's crystal  structure? 


Western  Electric's  Purchased  Product 
Engineering  organization  and  Bell  Labs  set 
up  a  design  capability  line  at  a  company  sub- 
sidiary, Nassau  Smelting  &  Refining. 

Using  machinery  developed  at  Western 
Electric's  Kearny  Works,  they  refined  pro- 
duction methods  and  materials  that  made  it 
possible  for  a  supplier  to  produce  the  new 
battery  economically,  in  commercial  quanti- 
ties and  to  Bell  System  specifications. 

And  Western  Electric  plans  to  achieve 
still  further  savings  through  a  continuing  cost- 
reduction  program. 

Conclusion:  Close  cooperation  between 
Bell  Labs  and  Western  Electric  has  resulted 
in  the  creation  of  a  superior  lead-acid  bat- 
tery. Its  expected  useful  lifetime  is  at  least 
30  years  —  double  that  of  even  its  best  prede- 
cessors. It  lowers  maintenance  costs  substan- 
tially. And  its  unusual  design  virtually  elimi- 
nates the  hazard  of  fire  due  to  mechanical 
failure. 


Western  Electric 


We  make  things  that  bring  people  closer. 


1970 


Married:  JOSEPH  CASCIO,  JR.  and  Miss 
Barbara  E.  Dow  on  December  29,  1973  in 
Falmouth,  Maine.  The  bride  graduated  from 
the  University  of  Maine.  Her  husband  is  em- 
ployed by  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Company. 
.  .  JOHN  N.  DUCIMO  to  Miss  Sharron  J. 
McCullough  in  Boston  on  November  17, 
1973.  Mrs.  Ducimo  is  a  nurse.  The  bride- 
groom is  a  sales  and  service  representative 
for  U.S.  Steel  Electric  Cable  in  Worcester.  .  . . 
ROBERT  G.  MERRITT  to  Miss  Mary  F.  Begg 
in  Connecticut  on  January  12,  1974.  Mrs. 
Merritt  graduated  from  Southern  Connecticut 
State  College.  Her  husband  is  employed  at 
Olson  Mfg.  Company,  Holden,  Mass.  .  .  . 
BRUCE  RUCKDESCHEL  to  Miss  Deborah 
Lee  Scott  on  November  9,  1973  in  West- 
brook,  Connecticut.  The  groom  is  employed 
at  CompuColor,  Inc.,  in  Stratford. 

W.  TODD  AKIN  works  in  the  Data  Proc- 
essing Division  at  IBM  in  Worcester.  .  .  . 
Lt.  KENNETH  C.  BASSMANN  is  chief- 
communications/electronics  operations  with 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  in  Takhli,  Thailand.  .  .  . 
GERRY  BLODGETT  serves  as  a  patent  agent 
with  Norman  S.  Blodgett,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
DAN  I  ELK.  BR  EEN  is  a  sales  trainee  at  Warner 
Electric  Brake  &  Clutch  Co.,  Beloit,  Wis.  .  .  . 
Merck  &  Co.,  Inc.,  Danville,  Pa.,  employs 
DONALD  T.  KREMER  as  a  process  super- 
visor. .  .  .  PETER  F.  LALOR  works  at  the 
Electric  Boat  Division  of  General  Dynamics 
in  Groton,  Conn. 

Lt.  JEFFREY  C.  MANTY  has  been  serving 
with  the  U.S.  Army  Ordnance  Corps  in  West 
Germany  as  a  shop  officer  and  executive 
officer  of  a  direct  support  maintenance  com- 
pany. In  June  he  plans  to  return  to  the 
Bethlehem  (Pa.)  Steel  Corporation  as  a  pro- 
duction engineer.  .  .  .  KALVIN  W.  NGOON 
is  a  programmer  at  Syntex,  Inc.,  Palo  Alto, 
Calif.  .  .  .  JOHN  P.  OBER  is  studying  at  the 
London  School  of  Economics  in  England. 
.  .  .  GIRISH  PATEL  works  at  Bechtel  Corp., 
Gaithersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  GEORGE  E.  PHILIP- 
PON  serves  as  district  representative  at  Nalco 
Chemical,  Chicago,  III.  .  .  .  Crowson  Con- 
struction Co.,  Boise,  Idaho,  employs  JOSEPH 
W.  SHAW  as  superintendent.  .  .  .  LAW- 
RENCE B.  COHEN  recently  received  his  MA 
in  chemistry  from  Boston  University  where 
he  was  a  U.S.  Office  of  Education  Fellow 
from  1971-73.  Currently  he  is  an  instructor 
of  chemistry  at  B.U. 


1971 


Lt.  DENNIS  CHIN  serves  with  the  U.S.  Army 
in  Thailand.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  E.  HELLIWELL, 
JR.  has  been  promoted  to  resident  service 
engineer  by  Riley  Stoker  Corporation.  He 
will  be  located  in  the  firm's  sales  office  in 
Denver,  Colo.  Formerly  he  was  a  field  en- 
gineer at  corporate  headquarters  in  Worces- 
ter. .  .  .  Presently  ERNEST  R.  JOYAL  works 
as  a  naval  architect  for  the  U.S.  Navy,  Super- 
visor of  Shipbuilding,  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  . 
BENJAMIN  H.  KATCOFF  is  now  a  compen- 
sation administrator  in  the  Personnel  Division 
at  Polaroid  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  is 
also  studying  nights  for  his  MBA  at  Boston 
University. 


It  writes  your 
language     > 


Adjustaole 

eraser  lifts  out  to 

expose  spare 

leads 


f/f 


Red  signal 
warns  of «        .f/j 
low  lead.  \  /// 


Clutch  holds 

floating  lead 

protector 

securely 


In  your  line  of  work,  odds  are  you  need  a  pencil  that  writes 
with  a  super  thin  line.  A  line  so  thin  that  it  can  show  a  lot  of 
detail  in  a  limited  space.  Or  crowd  a  lot  of  information  on  one 
small  line.  That  pencil  is  the  new  improved  Ultra-FINELINE  from 
Sheaffer.  Available  in  0.3mm  and  0.5mm  models. 

It's  a  mechanical  pencil  you  can  get  technical  with.  The 
exclusive  Floating  Lead  Protector  won't  wobble  or  allow  the 
lead  to  rotate ...  or  break  off.  If  it  ever  gets  jammed  with  broken 
lead,  you  simply  replace  the  Protector.  You  never  need  to  repoint 
a  lead  or  adjust  the  amount  of  lead  exposed.  And  the 
Ultra-FINELINE  even  signals  you  when  it's  getting  low  on  lead. 

The  Ultra-FINELINE.  It  makes 
designing  and  technical  drawing  so  r\n 

much  easier,  we  sometimes  n  n    c  bnp, 

wonder  how  we  designed  it .. .  I  U  I      I  U  (  ( 

without  it.  0.3mm  and  0.5mm 
models.  Just  $2.98  to  S5.98.  (How's 
that  for  talking  your  language?) 
Floating  Lead  Protector 
replacements  now  available . . . 
6for$1. 


Tineline 

SHEAFFER. 


worldwide.  » textron  comp»n\ 


JOSEPH  B.  KAYE  works  as  manager  of 
City  Cleaners,  Inc.,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Currently  STEPHEN  P.  KATZ  is  with  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Westfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  Pres- 
ently DONALD  C.  MILIA  serves  as  a  sales 
engineer  at  the  Torrington  Co.,  Torrington, 
Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  H.  READ  is  assistant  struc- 
tural engineer  at  Boston  &  Maine  Corp., 
North  Billerica,  Mass.  .  .  .  MARSHALL  H. 
SHEPARD  is  with  Bowmar/ALI  Inc.,  in 
Acton,  Mass.  .  .  .  EDWARD  C.  LOWE,  III 
has  accepted  a  job  with  General  Electric's 
sales  office  in  Wellesley,  Mass. 


1972 


Mrs.  Martin,  a  graduate  of  Hood  College,  is 
a  teacher.  Mr.  Martin  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Central  Connecticut  State  College. 

Married:  BRIAN  J.  SAVILONIS  to  Miss 
Janice  E.  McNamara  of  Jefferson,  Massa- 
chusetts on  December  29,  1973.  Recently 
Brian  was  a  runner-up  in  ASME's  Arthur  L. 
Williston  Medal-Charles  T.  Main  Award 
Contest.  His  entry,  which  was  concerned 
with  the  civic  and  cultural  responsibilities  of 
the  engineer  was  titled  "An  Interim  Pollution 
Abatement  Method:  Artificial  Aeration."  At 
present  he  is  a  doctoral  candidate  at  the 
State  University  of  New  York  at  Buffalo.  .  .  . 
Lt.  DONALD  A.  TAFT  to  Miss  Mary  Ellen 
Biggins  on  January  5,  1974  in  Worcester. 


Married:  PAUL  A.  FRITZSCHE  and  Miss 
ANNE  D.  RODIER,'74,on  January  19,  1974 
in  Oxford,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Fritzsche  re- 
ceived her  BS  in  mathematics  from  WPI  in 
February.  She  is  a  pension  service  coordi- 
nator for  Union  Mutual  Insurance  Co.,  Port- 
land, Me.  Her  husband  is  a  second  year  law 
student  at  the  University  of  Maine  School  of 
Law  in  Portland.  .  .  .  JAMES  L.  JARDINE  to 
Miss  Elaine  C.  Fagerquist  on  September  22, 
1 973  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Jardine  is  a  registered 
nurse.  The  groom  is  a  project  engineer  for  the 
State  of  Vermont  Agency  of  Environmental 
Engineering  in  Montpelier.  .  .  .  DAVID  A. 
MARTIN  and  Miss  Kathleen  Nestico  on  De- 
cember  22,   1973   in    Bristol,   Connecticut. 


Mrs.  Taft,  who  attended  Framingham  State 
College,  is  continuing  her  studies  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Maryland,  College  Park.  Lt.  Taft  is 
a  company  executive  officer  with  the  76th 
Engineer  Battalion  at  Ft.  Meade. 

DANN  DAVID  is  on  the  environmental 
and  safety  activities  staff  at  Saab-Scania  of 
America,  Inc.,  Orange,  Conn.  .  .  .  PETER  E. 
DAUPERN  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Cahn  Engineers  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
PAUL  W.  KELLEY  works  at  Digital  Equipment 
Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  ANTHONY  J. 
MANGANO  is  with  Polaroid  Corp.,  Waltham, 
Mass.  .  .  .  KENNETH  PRZYSTAS,  who  is 
employed  at  American  Optical  in  South- 
bridge,  Mass.,  is  also  the  author  of  a  new 
sports  column,  "Sports  Beat,"  which  cur- 
rently appears  in  Webster's  SOUTH  COUNTY 
ADVERTISER.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  C.  TSIANCO  is 
a  teaching  assistant  at  the  University  of 
Rochester  (N.Y.). 


1973 


Married:  STEPHEN  J.  BAUM  and  Miss 
ELIZABETH  KEEGAN  of  Cranston,  Rhode 
Island  on  August  25,  1973.  Mrs.  Baum  is  a 
senior  at  WPI  where  her  husband  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  in  the  Civil  Engineering  Depart- 
ment. .  .  .  PHILIP  BRODEUR  and  Miss 
Rosemary  P.  Bailey  on  January  19,  1974 
in  Holyoke,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Brodeur 
graduated  from  Bryant  College,  Smithfield, 
R.I. The  groom  is  coordinator  at  Bailey  Realty. 
. . .  MARK  D.  ERASMUS  and  Miss  Dianne  M. 
Valas  in  Oxford,  Massachusetts  on  December 
22,  1973.  The  bride  attended  St.  Vincent 
Hospital  School  of  Nursing  and  Quinsiga- 
mond  Community  College,  Worcester.  Her 
husband  is  studying  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut  School  of  Medicine  in  Farming- 
ton.  .  .  .  PETER  R.  PASTORE  to  Miss  Heidi 
S.  Klemme  in  Rowayton,  Connecticut  on 
November  24, 1 973.  Mrs.  Pastore,  a  graduate 
of  Garland  Junior  College,  is  presently 
assistant  manager  at  the  Corner  House  in 
Darien.  The  groom  is  with  Metcalf  &  Eddy, 
New  York  City. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  GEORGE  R. 
HARRIS  a  son,  Duncan  Stuart,  on  December 
1 , 1 973.  George  is  with  Towle  Manufacturing 
Co.  in  Newburyport,  Mass. 

SURESH  K.  AMIN  is  a  design  engineer  at 
the  Entwistle  Co.,  Hudson,  Mass. .  .  .  SALLY 
STOVOLD  BARRY  serves  as  a  scientific  pro- 
grammer at  MIT's  Lincoln  Laboratories, 
Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  RICHARD  B.  BEL- 
MONTE  works  as  a  safety  engineer  trainee 
with  the  U.S.  Army  Materiel  Command  at  the 
Red  River  Army  Depot,  Texarkana,  Texas. . . . 
DR.  HOWARD  S.  BILOFSKY  is  a  senior 
applicationsscientistat  Bolt,  Beranek  &  New- 
man, Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  Honeywell 
Information  Systems,  Inc.,  Framingham, 
Mass.  has  employed  TIMOTHY  R.  BROWN 

as  a  design  engineer BILL  CARTON,  who 

coordinated  the  well-received  Technicon  I 
during  Intersession  last  year,  organized  and 
spoke  at  Technicon  II  during  this  year's 
Intersession. 


J*amesbury 
manufacturers  of 
Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 
Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 
JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


KATHLEEN  COYLE  works  at  Hamilton 
Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  .  .  . 
KATHRYN  ZAWISLAK  DAGOSTINO  is  with 
the  Prudential  Insurance  Co.,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif.  .  .  .  DEBORAH  LaPLANTE  GOODWIN 
works  for  National  Commercial  Bank  &  Trust, 
Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  A.  KALINOWSKI 
is  an  industrial  engineer  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester. 

ROGER  LAVALLEE  teaches  mathematics 
at  Cathedral  High  School,  Springfield,  Mass. 
...  TIN  WAI  MAH  serves  as  a  computer 
programmer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corpora- 
tion, Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  MARYANN 
BAGDIS  PACE  has  been  employed  as  a  com- 
puter programmer  at  Philadelphia  Electric 
Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  .  J.  DIANE  PRIT- 
CHARD  is  a  self-employed  programmer- 
consultant  in  East  Greenwich,  R.I.  .  .  . 
KENNETH  C.  PULS  teaches  chemistry  at 
Immaculate   High   School,   Danbury,   Conn. 


...WILLIAM  A.  RICHARDS  works  asacom- 
puter  operator  at  Superior  Electric  Co., 
Bristol,  Conn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  SCHULTZ  is  a 
traveling   secretary  for   Lambda   Chi  Alpha 

Fraternity,  Indianapolis,  Indiana ROBERT 

STARNES  is  a  student  at  the  University  of 

Pennsylvania  Medical  School RICHARD 

H.  TURNER  serves  as  a  sales  consultant  with 
Sales  Consultants  of  Westboro  (Mass.).  .  .  . 
JOHN  A.  WILLIAMS,  JR.  works  for  Shell 
Chemical  Co.,  Axis,  Ala. 


31 


completed 
careers 


JAMES  G.  GOODELL,  "10,  passed  away 
at  St.  Clare's  Hospital,  Schenectady,  New 
York  last  May. 

He  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1910.  He  retired  as  engineer- 
inspectorfrom  Marsh  &  McLennan  Insurance 
Agency  in  1960  after  35  years  of  service. 

AUGUST  J.  REINHARD,  '12,  of  Katonah, 
New  York,  a  retired  project  engineer  from 
Western  Union  Telegraph  Co.,  New  York 
City,  died  last  November. 

He  was  born  January  23,  1890  in  New 
York  City  and  graduated  with  a  BS  in  elec- 
trical engineering  from  WPI.  From  1912 
until  1957  he  was  with  Western  Union. 

Mr.  Reinhard  was  a  professional  engineer 
in  New  York  state. 

HARRY  B.  LINDSAY,  '13,  a  trustee  emer- 
itus of  WPI, died  January  27, 1974in  Holden, 
Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  84. 

He  was  born  in  Hopkinton,  N.Y.  on 
December  17,  1889.  In  1913  he  graduated 
as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI.  An 
authority  on  abrasives,  he  retired  in  1951 
as  secretary-treasurer  of  the  Grinding  Wheel 
Institute  and  of  the  Abrasive  Grain  Associa- 
tion. 

During  World  War  II,  Mr.  Lindsay  was 
chairman  of  the  Abrasive  Council  for  War 
Production.  Earlier,  after  a  postgraduate  year 
at  WPI,  he  had  served  as  an  instructor  in 
electrical  engineering  and  Ordnance  Optics 
at  the  U.S.  Naval  Academy,  Annapolis,  Md. 

At  the  outbreak  of  World  War  I,  he  joined 
the  Army  and  was  in  charge  of  the  air 
services  school  for  radio  and  control  artillery 
fire  at  Ellington  Field,  Houston,  Texas. 

After  the  first  World  War,  he  worked  as  a 
sales  engineer  in  the  grinding  wheel  division 
at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  and  later  became 
sales  manager  of  the  refractories  and  ma- 
chine tool  divisions.  During  his  career  he 
was  also  associated  with  Tuska  Radio  Mfg., 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  In  1933  he  became 
deputy  administrator  for  the  National  Recov- 
ery Administration  in  Washington,  D.C.  and 
in  1934  he  was  named  secretary-treasurer  of 
the  Grinding  Wheel  Manufacturers  Associa- 
tion. 

Mr.  Lindsay,  who  was  trustee  of  Worcester 
Mechanic  Savings  Bank  and  Home  for  Aged 
Women,  was  a  past  president  of  the  WPI 
Alumni  Association  and  the  Worcester 
chapter  of  the  Association.  He  belonged  to 
Theta  Chi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  Sigma  Xi,  and  Skull. 


PAUL  W.  GLOVER,  '14,  died  July  10, 
1973  in  Hanover,  New  Hampshire.  He  was 
81. 

A  native  of  Woodsville,  N.H.,  he  later 
studied  civil  engineering  at  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  treasurer  of  the  Bath  (N.H.) 
Fiber  Co.,  Inc.  Previously  he  was  with 
Blandin  &  Glover. 

Mr.  Glover  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  Fraternity  and  Skull. 

ALFRED  C.  FENN,  '17,  died  on  December 
3,  1973  in  Clearwater,  Florida. 

He  was  born  May  3, 1 894  in  Essex,  Conn. 
After  receiving  his  BSEE  from  WPI,  he  joined 
Riley  Stoker  Corporation  in  New  York  City. 
In  1959  he  retired  as  a  sales  engineer  after 
nearly  40  years  of  service.  During  World  War 
II  he  worked  as  a  $1.00  a  year  member  of 
the  Power  Division  of  the  War  Production 
Board  in  Washington,  D.C. 

Mr.  Fenn  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and 
ASME. 

ALFRED  M.  WHITTEMORE,  '19,  died 
October  25,  1973  in  Concord,  New  Hamp- 
shire. 

He  was  born  in  Needham,  Mass.  on  June 
12,  1896  and  later  studied  civil  engineering 
at  WPI.  Early  in  his  career  he  was  employed 
by  the  New  York  Central  Railroad  in  Galion, 
Ohio  and  Strauss  Engineering  Corporation  in 
Chicago. 

In  1 962,  after  27  years  of  service,  he  retired 
from  the  New  Hampshire  Department  of 
Public  Works  and  Highways  where  he  had 
been  assistant  bridge  engineer.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  original  survey  party  on  the 
famed  scenic  Kancamagus  Highway  in  White 
Mountain  National  Forest. 

He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

ROBERT  G.  FERGUSON,  '21,  former  vice 
president  of  Teleregister  Corp.,  New  York 
City,  died  November  28, 1 973  in  Lake  Worth, 
Florida.  He  was  74. 

A  native  of  Chicopee,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1921. 
During  his  career  he  was  associated  with 
New  York  Edison,  Brooklyn  Edison,  and 
Teleregister  Corp.,  where  in  1 929  he  became 
assistant  to  the  vice  president  of  engineering. 
He  later  retired  as  vice  president  of  the 
corporation. 

Mr.  Ferguson  was  a  member  of  ATO  and 
Skull. 

RICHARD  P.  PENFIELD,  '21.  passed 
away  suddenly  on  January  6  in  Portland, 
Connecticut  at  the  age  of  73. 

He  was  born  in  Portland  and  in  1921 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI.  For  fifty  years  he  was  an  employe  of 
the  Hartford  Electric  Light  Company.  He  also 
had  served  as  secretary  to  the  Board  of 
Directors  of  the  Middlesex  Memorial  Hos- 
pital and  as  chairman  of  the  advisory  board 
of  the  United  Bank  and  Trust  Company. 

Mr.  Penfield  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  and  a  charter  member  and  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Portland  Exchange  Club. 


ULDERIC  F.  HURLEY,  '22,  died  at  his 
home  in  Southboro,  Massachusetts  on 
January  3,  1974. 

He  was  born  in  Marlboro,  Mass.  on 
August  12,  1901.  After  studying  at  WPI  he 
later  joined  the  New  England  Telephone  Co. 
where  he  was  employed  for  40  years. 

Mr.  Hurley,  who  was  to  have  been 
general  chairman  of  the  1974  Southboro 
Heart  Fund  Drive,  was  a  blood  courier  for 
the  American  Red  Cross,  past  president  of 
Southboro  Senior  Citizens,  treasurer  of  the 
Southboro  Historical  Society  and  a  member 
of  SAE.  He  was  past  president  of  the  William 
Denver  Chapter  of  the  Pioneers  of  America 
and  a  member  of  the  Southboro  Housing 
Authority. 

A  long-time  member  of  the  Southboro  Ad- 
visory Board  and  secretary  of  the  local  His- 
toric Commission,  he  also  served  as  an  active 
member  of  FISH.  In  1 971  he  was  selected  as 
the  Southboro  Rotary  Club  Man  of  the  Year. 

ROBERT  H.  ALBERTI,  '26,  of  Greenfield, 
Massachusetts,  died  January  2,  1974  at  the 
age  of  69. 

A  native  of  Greenfield,  he  later  earned  his 
BSCE  at  WPI.  He  worked  for  the  Water  De- 
partment in  Springfield,  Mass.;  the  town  of 
Greenfield  as  superintendent  of  streets;  the 
Massachusetts  Local  Control  Survey;  the 
U.S.  Dept.  of  Commerce;  and  the  Massa- 
chusetts Geodetic  Survey.  In  1969  he  retired 
as  chief  inspector  and  quality  control  man- 
ager at  Greenfield  Tap  &  Die. 

A  member  of  Theta  Chi  and  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Mr.  Alberti  also  belonged  to  ASTME,  the 
Franklin  County  Industrial  Management 
Club,  the  American  Ordnance  Association, 
and  ASQC. 

W.  SHELDON  CHAPIN,  '27.  of  Falmouth, 
Maine  passed  away  on  August  10,  1973. 

He  was  born  on  May  22,  1905  at  Lee, 
Mass.  For  many  years  he  was  the  editor  at 
Gannett  Publishing  Co.,  Portland,  Maine. 

Mr.  Chapin  belonged  to  Alpha  Tau  Omega. 

BUELLS.  DICKINSON, '27,  of  Granville, 
Massachusetts,  died  March  14,  1973. 
.  A  Granville  native,  he  was  born  on  June 
18,  1901.  After  studying  mechanical  en- 
gineering at  WPI,  he  joined  Wickwire  Spencer 
Steel.  Later  he  was  with  Walsh  Holyoke 
Steam  Baler,  Holyoke  Card  &  Paper  Co.,  and 
American  Abrasive  Co.,  Westfield,  Mass., 
where  he  was  a  plant  superintendent. 
He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

JAMES  M.  SIMMONS,  '27,  passed  away 
on  January  14,  1974  in  Cleveland  Heights, 
Ohio.  He  was  69  years  old. 

Born  in  New  York  City,  he  received  his 
bachelor's  degree  from  New  York  University 
in  1929  after  studying  civil  engineering  at 
WPI.  In  1929  he  joined  the  Erie  Railroad  in 
Cleveland  (now  Erie-Lackawanna  R.R.), 
where  in  1 969  he  retired  as  a  designer  in  the 
Department  of  Structures  after  40  years  of 
service. 

Mr.  Simmons  belonged  to  the  Society  of 
Engineers. 


DONALD  S.  BLISS,  '28,  education  spe- 
cialist, died  on  December  1 , 1 973  at  his  home 
in  Washington,  D.C.  He  was  71. 

A  native  of  Washington,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer.  In  1928 
he  joined  the  Bliss  Electrical  School,  which 
had  been  founded  by  his  father.  He  served 
as  vice  president  of  the  school,  which  in 
1 950  was  taken  over  by  Montgomery  Junior 
College.  Later  he  became  director  of  the 
Electronics  Division  atthe  U.S.  Navy  Training 
Publications  Center  in  Washington.  He  re- 
tired in  1967. 

Mr.  Bliss  belonged  to  ATO  and  was  a 
former  president  of  the  Federal  Schoolmen's 
Club  and  commodore  of  the  Washington 
Yacht  Club. 

THOMAS  G.  BERGIN,  '30,  died  Decem- 
ber 26,  1973  in  Elmira,  New  York  while  on 
a  visit  to  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Linda  Gudas  of 
Horseheads,  N.Y.  He  was  65. 

He  was  born  in  Swampscott,  Mass.  and 
ater  studied  at  WPI.  Last  June  he  retired  as 
an  engineer  from  the  A.F.  Holden  Metal- 
urgical  Laboratories  of  Detroit,  Michigan. 

Mr.  Bergin  was  the  husband  of  Mrs.  Doris 
3ergin,  who  was  the  secretary  in  the  WPI 
Vlanagement-Engineering  Department  for 
nany  years. 

WILLIAM  R.  HANNAH,  '36,  a  comptroller 
n  Massachusetts  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co., 
Springfield,  Mass.,  died  December  31,  1973 
n  Massachusetts  General  Hospital,  Boston, 
ifter  undergoing  open-heart  surgery. 

Mr.  Hannah  was  born  July  15,  1913  at 
Jpringfield  and  later  became  a  student  at 
VPI.  In  1934  he  became  associated  with 
/lass.  Mutual's  auditing  department  and 
vas  transferred  to  the  accounting  depart- 
lent  in  1938.  He  was  named  supervisor  in 
950,  manager  in  1953,  and  comptroller  in 
956. 

A  World  War  II  veteran,  he  also  served  on 
ie  Wilbraham  (Mass.)  Water  Commission 
Dr  12  years.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Sigma 
lappa. 

^NGELO  V.  MAURIELLO,  '36,  of  Natick, 
/lassachusetts  passed  away  on  November 
1,  1973. 

He  was  born  on  May  1 6, 1 91 3  in  Worces- 
ir.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  joined  the 
/lassachusetts  Department  of  Public  Works, 
ater  he  served  as  a  civil  engineer  in  the  U.S. 
vrmy  Corps  of  Engineers  in  Boston. 

Mr.  Mauriello  was  a  member  of  Phi  Kappa 
heta  Fraternity. 

OHN  FORD,  JR.,  '42,  of  Piedmont,  Cali- 
ornia,  died  December  20,  1973.  He  was  53. 

Born  in  Plymouth,  Mass.,  he  earned  his 
ISCE  from  WPI  in  1942.  During  his  career 
e  was  associated  with  Ben  C.  Gerwick, 
ic;  Raymond  International;  Merritt-Chap- 
lan  Scott;  Pomeroy-Gerwick;  and  Peter 
iewit  Sons  Co.  in  California  where  he  served 
s  project  superintendent. 

Mr.  Ford,  who  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
appa  and  ASCE,  was  also  a  former  vice 
resident  of  the  Northern  California  chapter 
f  the  Alumni  Association. 


DONALD  E.  FLOHR,  '48,  a  civil  engineer 
who  designed  fire  protection  systems  for  the 
U.S.  Navy  and  Post  Offices,  died  January  1, 
1  974  at  his  home  in  Arlington,  Virginia. 

He  was  born  in  Harrisburg,  Pa.  on  August 
29,  1924  and  served  on  an  aircraft  carrier  in 
the  Navy  in  World  War  II.  After  graduating 
from  WPI  in  1948,  he  joined  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association.  In  1952  he  became 
a  civilian  fire  protection  engineer  for  the 
Navy  and  helped  design  safety  systems  in 
the  U.S.,  Europe,  and  Japan. 

The  Post  Office  Department  hired  him  in 
1968  to  organize  fire  safety  programs  for 
post  offices  nationwide.  In  1  972  he  returned 
to  the  Naval  Facilities  Engineering  Command 
headquartered  in  Alexandria,  Va. 

Mr.  Flohr,  a  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts,  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha,  the  Society  of  Fire  Protection 
Engineers,  and  the  National  Fire  Protection 
Association.  He  was  a  past  secretary  of  the 
Washington,  D.C.  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

JOHN  F.  BRIERLY,  '50,  founder  and  presi- 
dent of  Valuation  Counselors,  Inc.,  Chicago, 
died  suddenly  November  30,  1973  in  Glen- 
view,  Illinois.  He  was  48  years  old. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  as  a 
civil  engineer  from  WPI.  While  at  the  Insti- 
tute, he  served  as  a  respected  president  of 
his  class  and  of  his  fraternity,  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa.  He  belonged  to  Skull  and  as  a  fresh- 
man was  named  the  most  outstanding  mem- 
ber of  his  class. 

While  serving  as  a  quartermaster  third 
class  with  the  Navy  in  World  War  II  aboard 
the  destroyer  escort  "Tabberer",  he  and  other 
crew  members  were  cited  by  Admiral  William 
Halsey  for  rescuing  55  survivors  from  two 
typhoon-wrecked  destroyers  off  Luzon  in 
1944. 

Following  graduation  from  WPI,  he  be- 
came a  field  representative  for  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association.  Then  he  joined  the 
American  Appraisal  Company.  Priortofound- 
ing  Valuation  Counselors,  Inc.,  he  served  as 
vice  president  in  charge  of  the  corporate 
marketing  and  sales  department  of  Marshall 
&  Stevens  in  Chicago. 

Mr.  Brierly  was  a  special  associate  member 
of  the  Chicago  Real  Estate  Board,  an  asso- 
ciate member  of  the  National  Association  of 
Accountants, and  a  memberof  the  Executives' 
Club  of  Chicago.  He  was  vice  president  of 
the  Union  League  Boys  Club  Foundation  of 
Chicago.  A  past  president  of  the  Chicago 
chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  Mr. 
Brierly  also  was  very  active  in  admissions 
work  for  WPI  in  the  Chicago  area. 


CALVIN  E.  BACKSTROM,  '61,  died  De- 
cember 1 4, 1 973  in  Buffalo,  New  York  at  the 
age  of  35. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  earned  his 
BSEE  at  WPI.  Following  graduation  he 
joined  the  Blackstone  Valley  Electric  Co.  in 
Lincoln,  R.I.  In  1968  he  started  work  as 
supervising  distribution  engineer  in  the 
Electrical  Division  of  the  Department  of 
Public  Utilities  in  the  city  of  Anaheim,  Calif. 
Prior  to  his  death  he  was  utilities  manager 
for  the  Penn  Yan  (N.Y.)  Municipal  Board. 

Mr.  Backstrom  was  a  member  of  AIEE, 
the  Western  Underground  Committee  and 
Pacific  Utilities  Electric  Service  Require- 
ments Coordinating  Committee.  Active  in 
Boy  Scout  work,  he  was  also  a  former  presi- 
dent of  the  Jaycees  in  Rhode  Island  and 
served  on  the  national  Jaycees  board  for 
three  years.  He  was  the  nephew  of  Richard 
W.  Rhodes,  '34. 

LLOYD  H.  BOSTWICK,  SIM  '61,  died 
December  28,  1973  in  Nashua,  New  Hamp- 
shire. He  was  57. 

A  Worcester  native,  Mr.  Bostwick  was  a 
former  vice  president  of  Ball  Valve  Co., 
Worcester  (now  Smith  Valve  Co.)  Later  he 
was  a  purchasing  agent  for  Lytron  Co.  in 
Woburn,  Mass.  At  his  death  he  was  general 
manager  of  the  National  Pollution  Control 
System  in  Nashua. 

He  was  past  president  of  the  Worcester 
Lodge,  National  Association  of  Purchasing 
Management. 

ROBERT  W.  SUHR,  '65,  a  senior  engi- 
neer at  the  Westinghouse  Defense  and  Elec- 
tronics Systems  Center,  Baltimore,  Md.,died 
at  his  home  in  Elkridge,  Maryland  on  De- 
cember 12,  1973.  He  was  33  years  old. 

Mr.  Suhr,  a  native  of  Dover,  N.J.,  gradu- 
ated from  Brown  University  in  1963  with  a 
BS  in  arts  and  engineering.  He  received  his 
MSME  from  WPI.  Following  graduation  he 
was  employed  at  the  Westinghouse  Aero- 
space Division  at  Friendship  Airport  in 
Baltimore. 

His  contributions  to  space  technology  in- 
cluded a  dry  drilling  technique  for  soil 
sampling  used  on  the  Apollo  lunar  probe,  a 
deployable  boom  antenna  for  the  Environ- 
mental Technology  Satellite,  and  work  on 
the  television  cameras  for  the  current  Skylab 
mission. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  American  Society 
of  Mechanical  Engineers. 

WAYNE  Y.  MORSE,  '69,  died  as  a  result 
of  a  mountain-climbing  accident  in  Wood- 
land Hills,  California  on  December  23,  1973. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  July  26, 1 947 
and  graduated  as  a  mechanical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1 969.  For  the  past  four  years  he 
had  worked  at  Rocketdyne  Division  of  North 
American  Rockwell  in  Los  Angeles. 

He  was  a  member  of  ASME  and  the 
Sierra  Club  of  California  and  was  the  brother 
of  Robert  H.  Morse,  '64. 

J.  PAUL  NESSLER,  '71,  died  on  October 
20,  1973  in  Dearborn,  Michigan. 

Born  in  Pittsfield,  Mass.  on  December  21, 
1 946,  he  later  attended  Clarkson.  In  1 971  he 
received  his  MSME  from  WPI. 

At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was  a  produc- 
tion design  engineer  at  Ford  Motor  Co.  in 
Dearborn. 


When  it  comes  to  construction  products, 

your  Clipper  Dealer 
can  color  your  thinking 


For  35  years  Clipper  has  been  painting  their 
construction  products  orange. 
It  could  have  been  green  or  purple  or  any  other  color. 
But  they  picked  orange.  Of  course  the  rest  is  history. 
Today  that  bright  orange  color  is  known  throughout  the 
construction  world  for  quality,  efficiency  and  precision- 
engineering. 

Just  as  your  Local  Clipper  Dealer  is  known  for 
dependable  service,  efficiency  and  integrity. 

He  can  help  you  select  from  any  of  the  many  fine 
Clipper  construction  products.  Including  concrete  saws, 


masonry  saws,  core  drills,  diamond  core  bits  and  cost 

cutting  diamond  and  abrasive  blades. 

Clipper  can  help  you  by  building  the  expert  knowledge 

of  the  world's  largest  manufacturer  of  abrasives  into 

every  product  they  offer. 

This  year,  go  with  the  Pros . . . 

Your  Clipper  Dealer  and 


clipper 


NORTON 


August  1974 


jmmmm 


\m?*- 


%. 


f^A-p  * 


•  if 


';:■■  "l. 


,-,. 


I 


Energy:  where's  it  going  to  come  from? 


m 


UIPPQIMMJ 


Vol.  78,  No.  1 


August  1974 


3  On  the  hill 

4  Feedback 


7      SPECIAL  SECTION:  Where's  It  going  to  come  from?  Energy 
sources  and  resources 

9      "Don't  sleep  with  two  women  in  your  bed" . . .  perspectives  on 
energy  production 

A  four-point  program  for  energy  development  proposed  by 
Dr.  Edward  Teller,  sometimes  known  as  the  "father  of  the 
hydrogen  bomb." 

15      Let  the  sun  shine  in 

Therealpossibilitiesfortheuseofsolarenergynow.astoldby 
Dr.  Peter  Glaser 


20      Commencement  and  reunion 

27      Your  class  and  others 

38      Completed  careers 

The  cover:  a  pen  drawing  by  Steve  Tozier,  '74,  done  as  a  final 
project  for  a  course  on  the  philosophy  of  environmental 
controls. 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51 ,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56;  Rob- 
ert C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22; 
Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I. 
Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.Russell  Kay 

Typography:  Typesetting  Service,  Provi- 
dence, Rhode  Island 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts 

Address  all  correspondence  regarding  edi- 
torial content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 


WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609 
(phone  61 7-753-1 411). 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Copyright©  1 974  by  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute; all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  and  April.  Second  Class  postage 
paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Post- 
master: Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alumni 
Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  W.  A. 
Julian,  '49 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B. 
E.  Hosmer,  '61 ;  D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M. 
McNamara,  '55;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

FundBoard:\N.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.  H.  White,  '41 ;  G.  A.  Anderson,  '51 ;  H.  I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J. 
Maguire,  '66 


1 3  seniors  confront  the 
administration 

A  quiet  revolution  surfaced  on 
campus  this  spring.  A  small  group  of 
students,  all  seniors  and  campus 
leaders  discovered  last  winter  that 
they  allielt  that  students  get  the  short 
end  of  the  stick  in  dealing  with  the 
WPI  administration. 

"We  decided  that  we  would  have' to 
take  the  initiative  to  improve  the 
situation,"  says  Len  Brzozowski,  leader 
of  the  group.  "In  a  rapid  four-year  stay 
at  WPI,  a  student  doesn't  even  begin  to 
become  aware  of  many  of  the  realities 
of  our  campus  until  senior  year.  By 
that  time,  either  it's  too  late  to  try  to 
initiate  change  or  the  graduating  class 
is  too  wound  up  in  j ob-hunting  to  care. 
The  'Well,  it's  not  our  problem 
anymore'  syndrome  is  the  rule  rather 
than  the  exception.  We  were 
determined  not  to  let  this  happen  to 
us." 

So  Len  and  John  Young,  Lee  Turner, 
and  Garry  Balboni  started  talking  with 
other  students  to  determine  a  viable 
course  of  action.  Len  freely  admits, 
"some  of  our  early  thoughts  were 
based  in  anger  and  disgust  and  would 
have  served  no  one."  Peter  Thacher 
provided  a  moderating  influence  on 
the  group,  which  responded  to  his 
concern  for  not  making  false 
accusations,  not  being  spiteful  and 
contemptuous.  The  group's  concerns 
ranged  from  the  cost  of  food  on 
campus  to  the  lack  of  communication 
among  the  WPI  community. 

By  the  beginning  of  April,  the  group 
had  decided  to  proceed  with  factual 
exposes  of  some  of  the  practices  they 
felt  were  unfair,  to  meet  with  the 
President's  Committee,  to  publish  a 
series  of  detailed  articles  and  reports  in 
the  campus  newspaper,  and  finally  to 


meet  with  individual  members  of  the 
administration  about  specific 
problems. 

The  group  had  been  operating 
quietly,  and  the  first  public  indication 
of  their  existence  came  on  Tuesday, 
April  30,  when  the  entire  front  page  of 
the  WPI  Newspeak  was  devoted  to  an 
open  letter  from  the  group,  by  then 
numbering  thirteen.  The  group 
identified  themselves  as  those 
"responsible  for  the  big  social 
weekends,  the  Class  of '  74  kickoff s,  for 
the  operation  of  many  clubs,  the 
student  government,  campus  hearing 
board,  the  IFC,  and  several  other 
bodies.  We  are  . .  .  just  beginning  to 
grasp  the  nature  of  this  institution,  its 
business  functions,  its  power 
structure,  its  services,  and  the  sources 
of  support  for  our  endeavors  as  well  as 
the  sources  of  bureaucratic  doubletalk 
and  noncooperation  which  only  serve 
to  make  our  efforts  more  difficult." 

The  letter  went  on  to  discuss 
specific,  representative  gripes  and 
problems.  There  was  the  $192.75 
charge  by  Buildings  and  Grounds  for 
the  use  of  Alden  Memorial 
Auditorium  one  evening,  which  by 
the  student's  reckoning  was  $125  too 
much.  There  were  complaints  about 
the  food  service  on  campus,  charging 
that  one  could  eat  better  for  less  at 
certain  local  restaurants  which 
operated  at  a  profit.  There  was  the  lack 
of  communication,  and  where  are 
faculty  and  students  supposed  to  meet 
outof  class?The  only  apparent  answer, 
the  Pub,  was  described  by  the  thirteen 
as  "suffering  from  the  same  cancer 
that  infects  the  snack  bar."  In  the  same 
vein,  groups  of  students  had 
attempted,  during  the  year,  to  invite 
faculty  members  to  lunch  and  dine 
with  them  on  occasion.  The  campus 
food  service  was  asked  to  contribute 
the  faculty  member's  meals  ($2— vs.  the 
$1.50  charged  in  the  faculty  dining 
room  for  allegedly  better  food),  but 
they  refused.  Dean  Grogan  solved  that 
problem  by  dipping  into  one  of  his  own 
budgets. 


The  long  list  of  complaints,  small 
and  large,  added  up  to  a  serious 
problem.  But  it  was  a  problem  that  they 
wanted  to  solve,  not  ignore. 

"In  our  opinion,  the  students  on 
WPI's  campus  are  effectively  noth- 
ing more  than  second  class  citi- 
zens. This  is  in  spite  of  efforts  on 
the  part  of  some  Boynton  adminis- 
trators and  because  of  some  other 
Boynton  Hall  inhabitants . . .  The 
'Tute'  has  been  quite  good  to  us 
though,  and  for  that  we  are  thank- 
ful, but  we  cannot  accept  the  way 
the  college  is  and  some  of  the  ways 
it  is  being  run.  There  are  so  many 
crying  needs,  yet  so  much  blatant 
waste  and  bureaucracy.  We 
believe  that  WPI  is  one  of  the  few 
engineering  schools  in  the  world 
that  is  really  trying  to  be 
innovative  and  we  feel  that  its 
objectives  are  both  vital  and 
noble.  Yet  we  are  cursed  with  less- 
than-innovative  administrators, 
back-stabbing  politics,  kingdom- 
building,  and  cases  of  people  work- 
ing against  each  other.  This 
institution's  growing  pains  are 
intense  right  now,  and  we  are  not 
at  all  sure  that  even  our  lofty  goals 
and  high  philosophies  will  get  us 
through.  Brown  University, 
which  possessed  an  innovative 
program  similar  to  ours,  just  this 
year  threw  in  the  towel  and 
retreated  to  a  more  conservative 
and  rigid  program.  We  want  very 
much  to  insure  that  WPI  will  not 
suffer  a  similar  fate. " 
The  letter  recommended  action 
that  would  be  felt:  we  have 
decided  that  we  simply  cannot  jus- 
tify in  our  minds  making  any  con- 
tributions to  the  general  WPI 
Alumni  Fund  when  we  graduate 
this  June  second.  Instead  we  shall 
submit  only  restricted  contribu- 
tions . . .  This  is  one  of  the  surest 
ways  to  help  formulate  school  pol- 
icy even  as  an  alumnus.  We  have 
just  not  seen  it  demonstrated  that 
those  who  administer  the  school 
policies  have  a  good  perception  of 
how  best  to  use  those  funds  in  a 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/3 


manner  which  meets  the  need  of 
the  student  body . .  .  We  feel  it's 
about  time  that  someone 
indicated  the  urgency  of  the  situ- 
ation .  .  .  We  also  wish  it  to  be 
known  that  we  stand  ready  now, 
in  four  weeks,  or  in  ten  years,  to 
help  WPI  in  any  way  that  we  can 
to  effect  whatever  changes  are  ever 
necessary  to  make  this  a  better  col- 
lege for  its  students. " 

Not  heralded  in  that  first  Newspeak 
letter,  but  voiced  to  the  President's 
Committee  and  later  published,  was  a 
complaint  about  the  content  of  the 
WPI  Journal  (reprinted  below  in 
Feedback). 

The  thirteen  seniors,  (including, 
besides  those  already  mentioned,  Bill 
Delphos,  Ted  Ledden,  Mike  Boyden, 
Tom  Burns,  Dave  Demers,  Jim 
Rubino,  Dean  Stratouley,  and  Dave 
Lapre)  were  cordially  received  by  the 
President's  Committee,  which 
included  President  Hazzard,  Vice 
President  and  Dean  of  Faculty  Ray 
Bolz,  Vice  President  for  Business 
Affairs  David  Lloyd,  Vice  President  for 
University  Relations  Thomas 
Denney,  Dean  of  Student  Affairs 
Donald  Reutlinger,  and  Director  of 
Physical  Planning  and  Plant  Services 
Gardner  Pierce;  Steve  Hebert, 
secretary-treasurer  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  was  also  at  the  meeting. 

The  students  presented  their  case 
and  encountered,  in  Brzozowski's 
words,  "a  responsiveness  which  I  have 
not  seen  in  some  time.  Each 
administrator  seemed  concerned 
about  the  problems  we  brought  to  his 
attention."  Vice  president  Denney 
was  impressed  with  the  concern  the 
students  showed  for  WPI  and  the 
entire  campus  community,  and  with 
how  well  they  had  done  their 
homework.  "These  students  have 
done  a  real  service  to  WPI.  They  have 
brought  out  some  problem  areas  which 
we  had  relegated  to  the  back  burner,  so 
to  speak,  and  given  us  what  is  perhaps  a 
more  realistic  perspective  on  campus 
life  from  the  students'  point  of  view. 
Most  of  their  suggestions  and 
proposals  were  constructive  and  really 
helpful,  and  I  hope  we  in  the 
President's  Committee  can  maintain  a 
continuingdialoguc  with  them.  Their 
input  is  importantand  valuable, and  it 

is  too  easy  tor  us  not  to  give  proper 
weight  to  students' views  when  we  a  re 
too  well  insulated  from  them." 
In  the  weeks  that  followed  this 


meeting,  the  student  members  held 
talks  with  individual  administration 
people  about  the  specific  problems. 
Agreements  were  worked  out 
regarding  hall  rental  charges  and  the 
campus  Pub,  which  has  been  speeded 
up  with  the  help  of  some  money 
released  ahead  of  schedule  by  WPI,  a 
restricted  gift  from  the  Class  of  74,  and 
the  offer  of  students  to  help  with  the 
work. 

The  juniors  and  sophomores  who 
were  recruited  by  the  original  thirteen 
plan  to  continue  their  efforts  in 
representing  the  student  viewpoint  to 
the  administration.  They  will  meet 
periodically  with  the  President's 
Committee  so  that  their  ideas  and 
view  will  be  accurately  presented  to 
those  charged  with  making  policy. 

The  thirteen  seniors  are  now 
thirteen  alumni,  and  their  part  in  the 
situation  has  changed,  their 
leadership  roles  passed  on  to  the  Class 
of  75.  About  the  experience,  Len 
Brzozowski  feels  pleased.  "I  think  we 
accomplished  about  everything  we 
could  realistically  have  expected  to 
this  year.  But  I  sometimes  wonder  if 
our  concerns  about  communications 
and  a  student-centered  campus  were 
really  understood.  I  hope  so." 


The  greening  of  the 
campus  —  but  where 
are  you  going  to  park? 

With  the  (so  far  temporary)  closing  of 
the  West  Street  and  the  virtually 
complete  elimination  of  vehicle  access 
to  the  East  Campus  from  Salisbury  to 
Boynton,  there  has  been  a  real  change 
in  attitude  among  the  WPI  staff.  Most 
people's  reaction  is  resentment  and/or 
disapproval.  Before,  a  campus  visitor 
was  reported  to  have  said  that  the 
college  staff  could  park  closer  to  their 
offices  than  he  could  to  his  house. 
That'sall  changed,  with  some45  fewer 
parking  spaces  available,  but  the  real 
crunch  is  yet  to  come;  right  now  it's 
only  inconvenient.  Come  September 
and  the  return  of  the  students,  things 
are  going  to  get  crowded  and  the 
campus  police  are  likely  to  have  a  field 
day  ticketing  parking  offenders.  Come 
December  and  the  return  of  ice  and 
snow,  the  climb  up  Boynton  Hill  from 
the  lower  reaches  of  the  Gordon 
Library  parking  lot  may  become  a  real 
adventure. 


It  used  to  be  that  you  could  hardly 
see  what  certain  buildings  really 
looked  like,  because  they  appeared 
built  on  a  foundation  of  automobiles. 
Now  everything  is  bare,-  being 
summer,  of  course,  there  isn't  much 
pedestrian  traffic  to  make  the  place 
looked  lived  in.  The  roadway  in  front 
of  Boynton  Hall  was  sawn  in  half 
lengthwise,  and  the  outer  half  of  the 
pavingremoved  and  grassed  over.  The 
ex-parking  area  along  Washburn 
facing  Salisbury  has  been  similary 
depaved. 

If  you  come  to  campus  now,  there 
are  precisely  four  places  you  can  enter 
(vs.  the  previous  nine),  and  in  no  case 
can  you  get  very  far.  Visitor  parking  is 
still  on  the  West  Campus,  but  there  is 
only  one  entrance  (off  Institute  Road 
between  Daniels  and  Riley)  and  one 
exit  (alongside  Morgan).  No  traffic  is 
permitted  on  the  circle  betwen  Alden 
and  Higgins,  the  one  with  the  flagpole 
and  the  beech  tree  in  the  middle. 
There  is  also  an  entrance  off  West 
Street  (which  ends  at  that  point)  to  the 
small  parking  lot  behind  Goddard. 

On  the  East  Campus,  you  can  enter 
off  West  Street  between  Atwater  Kent 
and  Salisbury.  That  deadends  in 
another  small  parking  lot.  The  last 
place  left  is  the  Gordon  Library 
parking  lot,  entrance  off  Boynton 
Street  as  before.  This  lot  has  been 
extended  to  the  south,  where  it  joins 
the  road  coming  down  the  hill.  No 
traffic  is  allowed  on  the  upper  hill  road. 


Fraternity  life  supported 

In  response  to  your  recent  issue 
devoted  to  Wl'I  fraternities,  I  would 
like  to  point  out  that  fraternity  means 
brotherhood;  and  that  fact  is  no  less 
significant  by  virtue  of  its  being  so 
obvious.  Brotherhood  presupposes  a 


4/ August  1974   WPI  Journal 


commitment  to  subvert  individual 
interests  in  pursuit  of  mutual  benefits. 
This  sort  of  spirit  seems  to  be  lacking  at 
WPI. 

The  old-style  curriculum  was  highly 
standardized  and  regimented.  There 
was  little  flexibility  or  opportunity  for 
individual  expression.  The  Plan  is 
radically  different  in  that  it  has  few 
requirements,  is  almost  completely 
flexible,  and  allows  each  individual  to 
march  to  the  beat  of  his  own  personal 
drummer.  I  submit  that  such  a 
fundamental  change  in  educational 
philosophy  coincided  with  a 
fundamental  change  in  student 
attitude. 

Evidently,  today's  student  is  more 
self-contained  and  less  of  a  "joiner." 
He  seems  to  shy  away  from 
organizations  and  institutions  as  a 
threat  to  his  individuality.  Witness 
the  coincident  decline  of  such  campus 
activities  as  student  government,  the 
campus  newspaper,  etc.,  with  that  of 
fraternities.  Such  an  overemphasis  on 
individuality  is  anathema  to  school 
spirit,  fraternity  spirit,  "social 
responsibility,"  and  to  the  concept  of 
the  "humane  technologist."  Indeed, 
such  an  attitude  breeds  paranoia, 
elitism,  and  a  lack  of  the  "common 
touch." 

Fraternity  life,  while  not  for 
everyone,  is  completely  consistent 
with  the  educational  goals  of  the  WPI 
Plan.  Fraternities  are  not  anti- 
intellectual;  rather  they  are  non- 
intellectual  in  nature.  Fraternity  living 
serves  to  develop  interpersonal  rather 
than  academic  skills.  It  complements 
regular  studies  much  as  does  project 
work. 

Fraternities  are  not  anti-school- 
spirit.  Historically,  they  have  provided 
the  bulk  of  class  officers,  intermural 
athletes,  and  heads  of  professionaland 
honorary  societies  and  other  campus 
organizations. 

Nor  do  fraternities  foster 
immaturity  or  "locker-room 
mentality."  Immature  or  destructive 
behavior  is  usually  more  prevalent  in 
the  dorms.  In  fact,  fraternity  living 
promotes  responsibility  and  maturity 
due  to  the  cooperative  nature  of  the 
experience. 


More  importantly,  fraternities 
provide  a  "supportive  group 
atmosphere"  which  tends  to  stabilize 
otherwise  turbulent  student  life.  The 
institutional  nature  of  the  fraternity 
helps  maintain  a  dynamic 
equilibrium  which  allows  for  growth 
and  change  while  serving  as  a  frame  of 
reference.  Fraternity  living  doesn't 
foster  parochialism  or  shorten 
horizons.  It  serves  as  a  foundation,  not 
an  anchor.  It's  something  to  build  on. 
Jack  Zorabedian,  12 
Saratoga  Springs,  N.Y. 


The  Current 
WPI  Journal 

An  area  deserving  greater  effort  is  the 
WPI  Journal.  Upon  receiving  the 
Journal,  tha  alumnus  seeks 
information  concerning  his  Alma 
Mater  and  the  fellow  students  he  knew 
so  well  during  his  years  here.  The 
parents  of  the  students  look  for 
information  about  the  school's 
academic  and  physical  growth  which 
distinguishes  WPI  from  many  other 
colleges,  or  for  information  on  their 
sons'  or  daughters'  friends.  In  the 
current  [February  1974]  issue  of  the 
WPI  Journal,  the  alumnus  and  the 
parent  find  a  small  amount  of  the 
information  they  seek  and  discover  a 
large  amount  of  completely 
unwarranted  and  ludicrous  pictures  of 
ice,  a  technical  report  on  the 
engineering  of  snow  skis,  and  a  small 
amount  of  alumni  news. 

Photographs  of  ice  on  the  WPI 
campus  are  pleasant  and  should  be 
displayed  in  a  photography  show  or 
hung  on  many  of  the  campus's  blank 
walls,  but  these  photographs  should 
not  be  the  main  portion  of  the  WPI 
Journal.  One  or  two  pictures  of  WPI  in 
winter  would  be  appropriate,  but  so 
many  photographs  with  so  little  news 
on  WPI  or  the  alumni  tend  to  lead  the 
reader  into  believing  WPI  and  its 
alumni  are  inactive  and  that  the  only 
means  of  filling  up  the  publication  is 
pictures. 

The  technical  report  on  the  design 
of  snow  skis  by  Brian  Kashiwa  73  in 
his  article,  "Skis:  They  Aren't  Barrel 
Staves  Anymore,"  is  another  example 
of  the  WPI  Journal's  failings.  The 
alumni  and  parents  are  interested  in 
what  recent  graduates  are  doing,  but 
such  a  lengthy  report  is  unnecessary 


and  certainly  not  the  correct  material 
for  a  feature  article .  The  feature  article 
ought  to  contain  information 
concerning  the  greening  of  the 
campus,  alternative  plans  for  WPI's 
educational  or  physical  growth,  the 
new  projects  being  worked  on,  this 
year's  excellent  job  market  for 
engineers,  how  well  the  Plan  and  the 
exchange  programs  with  colleges 
overseas  are  working,  the  continuing 
problems  and  advantages  of  the 
Consortium,  the  exchange  of  teachers 
within  the  Consortium,  or  any  of  the 
many  endless  topics  which  show  WPI 
is  alive  and  striving  to  become  a  better, 
more  exciting  site  for  learning. 

Finally  in  an  area  of  great  concern  to 
both  the  alumni  and  the  parents  of 
students,  the  news  of  the  alumni,  the 
WPI  Journal  is  far  too  concise  and 
terse.  Rarely  was  more  than  five  lines 
of  a  narrow,  printed  column  devoted 
to  only  one  alumnus.  The  WPI  Journal 
needn't  be  so  brief,  and  it  really  ought 
to  elaborate  on  the  alumnus's  news. 
The  magazine  should  state  not  only 
the  alumnus's  new  job  promotions, 
new  children,  and  marriages,  but  it 
should  also  include  the  alumnus's  new 
address,  interests,  extra  curricular 
activities,  recent  trips,  or  any  other 
peculiarity  which  would  be  of  interest 
to  his  classmates. 

If  the  current  issue  of  the  WPI 
Journal  is  a  fair  representation  of  the 
staff's  goals,  then  these  goals  must  be 
changed.  The  WPI  Journal  must  be 
changed  into  a  source  of  information 
concerning  WPI  and  its  alumni;  it 
should  not  remain  a  picture  book  with 
a  technical  report  as  a  feature  article. 
Many  other  schools  and  colleges 
produce  viable  alumni  publications. 
Why  can't  WPI?  According  to  the 
magazine's  poll,  the  WPI  Journal  (not 
the  WPI  newsletter)  is  the  "best  single 
source  of  information  about  WPI"  to 
77  percent  of  its  receivers.  If  this 
publication  is  a  main  source  of 
information  on  WPI,  then  the  WPI 
Journal  has  a  serious  responsibility  to 
its  recipients  and  ought  to  report  the 
changing  educational  and  recreational 
life  of  the  students  and  the  alumni. 
WPI  is  not  dormant  and  neither  are  the 
alumni,-  however,  the  last  issue  of  the 
WPI  Journal  is. 

The  Committee  of 
Concerned  Seniors 
WPI 


WPI  Journal/ August  1974/5 


SPECIAL  SECTION: 


Where's  it  going  to  come  from? 


Energy 
Sources 
and 
Resources 


ENERGY  IS  ABOUT  as  overworked  as  any  word  can  be 
these  days.  Perhaps  only  Watergate  is  heard  more.  First 
there  was  the  gasoline  shortage  predicted  for  last  summer, 
which  mostly  never  materialized.  Then  came  war  in  the 
Middle  East,  the  Arab  oil  embargo,  and  Lo  and  Behold!  we 
had  the  "energy  crisis"  on  our  hands,  and  we  all  spent  last 
winter  hunting  for  open  service  stations  or  waiting  in  line  at 
the  pumps.  But  Secretary  Kissinger  worked  things  out  in  the 
Middle  East,  the  gas  stations  stopped  keeping  banker's  hours, 
and  the  federal  government  told  us  energy  was  now  only  a 
"problem."  Of  course  energy,  in  whatever  form  we  got  it, 
suddenly  cost  a  heck  of  a  lot  more. 

But  it's  more  than  a  consumer  problem.  As  engineers  and 
scientists  and  businessmen,  as  inventors  and  mechanics,  as 
people  living  in  an  age  whose  very  fabric  has  been  shaped  by 
technology  and  the  Industrial  Revolution,  as  people  whose 
lifework  is  inextricably  tied  to  technology  -  energy  is 
particularly  important  to  us.  Indeed,  we  can  define 
technology  in  its  broadest  sense  as  the  ability  to  produce  and 
use  energy  -  to  extract  the  most  energy  from  available 
resources,  to  use  that  energy  most  efficiently  to  meet  our 
needs  and  wants, 

So  WPI,  which  is  committed  to  a  technological  society, 
has  a  special  concern  with  energy.  More  than  a  year  ago, 
before  the  effects  of  limited  energy  resources  were  apparent 
to  many,  the  mechanical  engineering  department  at  WPI 
began  assembling  a  year-long  colloquium  with  noted 
speakers  discussing  various  aspects  of  energy  production 
and  utilization.  Professor  John  Mayer,  whose  interests 
encompass  both  antipollution  automobiles  and  nuclear 
reactors,  put  together  a  series  of  nine  lectures  which,  in  their 
entirety,  constitute  a  remarkable  statement  on  the  energy 
situation. 

With  this  issue  of  the  Journal,  we  are  publishing  two 
articles  derived  from  that  ME  colloquium,  both  dealing 
primarily  with  non-nuclear  energy  resources.  In  the  next 
issue,  we  plan  to  present  a  further  series  of  articles  dealing 
with  the  problems  and  promise  of  nuclear  energy. 


WPIJournal/ August  1974/7 


4S 


"Don't  sleep  with  two  women 
in  your  bed" 


Perspectives  on 

Energy 

Production 

By  Dr.  Edward  Teller 


Dr.  Edward  Teller  was  born  in  Budapest  in  1908.  He  received 
his  doctorate  from  the  University  of  Leipzig  in  1 930,  then 
taught  at  Gottingen,  Copenhagen,  and  London  before 
coming  to  the  U.S.  and  George  Washington  University  in 
1935.  He  was  a  theoretical  nuclear  physicist  until  1939, 
when  the  discovery  of  controlled  fission  and  the  menace  of 
Nazi  Germany  and  imperial  Japan  drew  him  into  workon 
atomic  explosives.  His  wartime  assignments  took  him  to 
Columbia  and  then  the  University  of  Chicago.  After  World 
War  11,  he  continued  work  on  atomic  weapons,  believing 
their  development  necessary  for  worldpeace.  This  work  has 
givenhim  the  sobriquet  of  "father  of thehydrogenbomb." 
Dr.  Teller  is  currently  University  Professor  of  Physics  atthe 
University  of  California  and  associate  director  for  physics 
atthe  Lawrence  Livermore  Laboratory,  the  nation's  second 
weapons  laboratory,  which  he  helped  establish. 


I  DON'T  THINK  it  is  right  to  speak  of  an  energy  crisis, 
and  certainly  not  in  the  past  tense.  If  there  was  an 
energy  crisis,  the  real  difficulties  are  yet  to  come.  Oil  has 
become  the  prime  source  of  energy  throughout  the  world, 
partly  because  it  is  easily  transported,  partly  because  at  least 
for  the  time  being  it  is  accessible  (or  was  so  until  recently), 
and  partly  because  our  instruments  to  use  energy  have 
been  adapted  to  oil  so  therefore  we  have  a  tremendous  capi- 
tal investment  in  oil. 

To  appreciate  what  has  happened  and  what  is  likely  to 
happen,  I  would  like  to  mention  to  you  one  of  my  great 
accomplishments.  I  have  invented  a  new  unit.  I  don't  like  to 
talk  about  billions  of  barrels  —  it's  a  little  hard  to  imagine 
them  —  instead  I  talk  about  A  units.  An  A  unit  is  the  amount 
of  oil  reserves  that  the  Arabs  have.  Now,  the  known  reserves 
of  the  rest  of  the  world  are  one-half  of  an  A  unit,  and  what  is 
really  accessible  in  additional  oil  is  unknown.  It  is  clear  that, 
within  a  year,  the  price  of  oil  has  risen  by  a  factor  of  four. 
That  has  caused  some  slight  disturbances  in  the  United 
States.  The  effect  in  Europe  and  in  Japan  is  much  more 
serious.  The  consequences  in  developing  countries  like 
India  may  be  tragic  because  their  new  crops,  which  yield 
more  per  acre  and  which  they  need  for  survival,  will  not 
grow  without  nitrogen-based  fertilizer.  And  in  order  to 
produce  these  fertilizers,  one  needs  gas  or  oil,  which  the 
Indians  could  afford  before  the  recent  price  rise;  whether 
they  still  can  afford  them  is  more  questionable.  The 
starvation  of  millions  of  people  is  certainly  a  horrible  effect, 
compared  to  which  anything  we  have  gone  through 
becomes  insignificant. 

So  here  we  have  an  energy  problem  which  is  made  more 
difficult  because,  with  the  world-wide  growth  of  energy 
demand  —  and  most  of  this  growth  is  not  in  the  United  States 
—  the  shortage  is  apt  to  become  more  severe.  Now,  the 
solution  to  this  problem,  in  my  opinion,  is  in  one  field  and 
essentially  only  in  one  field  —  technology.  Technology  can 
solve  the  energy  shortage,  and  furthermore  can  solve  it 
without  deterioration  of  the  environment.  The  question  is 
only,  How?  The  possibilities  are  many,  and  the  practical 
possibilities  are  more  than  I  can  mention  here  in  a  way  that 
will  make  sense.  Whatever  I  omit,  I  omit  because  I  believe 
that  these  are  not  practical  solutions. 

WPI  Journal /August  1974/9 


Oil  and  Gas 

I  propose  that  there  are  essentially  four  ways  in  which  the 
energy  shortage  can  be  alleviated  and,  in  the  long  run, 
remedied.  The  first  of  these  is  to  look  for  more  oiland  more 
gas.  Today  we  have  IVi  A  units.  Perhaps  the  total  accessible 
oil  in  the  world  is  not  more  than  another  IV2  A  units, 
altogether  3;  perhaps  it's  lots  more. 

Let  me  mention  an  exciting  possibility.  The  continental 
shelf  is  an  extension  of  the  continent  under  the  ocean,  a 
shallow  part  down  to  a  depth  of  roughly  800  feet,  which  was 
laid  bare  in  the  ice  ages.  Oilhas  been  produced  by  decaying 
living  things  where  the  decay  occurred  under  conditions 
practically  excluding  oxygen.  People  have  been  looking  at 
the  continent  and  the  shelf  as  the  main  regions  where  these 
decaying  living  products  have  been  deposited  over  many 
millions  of  years.  At  the  limit  of  the  continental  shelf  there 
comes  the  continental  slope,  a  very  steep  section  which  goes 
down  to  a  depth  of  a  few  thousand  feet.  And  beyond  that 
comes  the  continental  rise.  (I  don't  know  why  they  call  it 
rise  when  it  goes  downward,-  but  if  you  look  at  it  from  the 
point  of  view  of  the  abyss,  the  deepest  part  of  the  ocean,  then 
it  is  indeed  a  rise. )  It  is  believed  that  this  rise  was  formed  by 
loose  material  from  the  continental  shelf  being  shaken 
down.  It  has  been  found  that  on  the  continental  rise  there 
are  great  masses  of  sedimentary  deposits,  and  in  these 
deposits,  you  find  the  kind  of  trap  in  which  oil  accumulates, 
like  soil  domes.  And  drilling  near  such  soil  domes,  oil  has 
actually  been  found  in  the  Gulf  of  Mexico  at  a  depth  of  many 
thousand  feet.  There  are  those  who  believe  that  more  oil  is 
on  the  continental  rise.  There  may  be  10  Aunits  there.  If  so, 
it  will  be  quite  a  technical  problem  to  produce  that  oil 
cheaply.  It  will  have  to  be  done  with  the  help  of  apparatus 
which  works  by  remote  control  and  under  very  high 
pressure. 


In  all  the  oil  fields  where  the  oil 
has  been  pumped  out,  the  "dry" 
wells  still  have  two-thirds  of  their 
original  hydrocarbon. 


There  is  another  question,  a  very  important  one:  What 
about  the  American  continental  shelf?  Along  the  eastern 
seaboard,  in  the  wide  expanses  of  the  continental  shelf 
which  essentially  belong  to  Florida,  there  is  no  drilling  on 
both  sides  of  Florida,  I  )n  I  ling  has  been  essentially  forbidden 
tor  tear  of  oil  spills.  These  oil  spills  a  re  exceedingly  unlikely. 
The  oil  spill  m  Santa  Barbara  never  should  have  occurred. 
One  of  the  simple  rules,  to  have  a  casing  going  all  the  way 
down,  was  violated.  There  is  also  a  rule  which  says  that  an  oil 
company  that  wants  to  drill,  m  whichever  region,  has  to 
make  a  deposit  of  $32  million  which  the  company  forfeits  to 
that  region  it  there  is  a  spill  But  on  top  of  that,  the 
permission  is  simply  not  given.  Now  having  said  that,  I 
would  like  to  ask  you  to  guess  how  much  money  we  spend, 
in  the  whole  of  the  United  States  per  year,  f  01  the  purpose  of 
cleaning  up  an  oil  spill  it  it  occurs  The  figure  is  $2  million.  It 


is  incredible.  It  might  be  justified  to  spend  so  little  if  there 
would  be  no  hope  of  success,  but  there  is.  One  can  corral 
these  spills.  One  can  sop  up  the  oil.  The  best  way  may  well  be 
to  drop  bacterial  cultures,  bacteria  which  have  the  peculiar 
habit  of  living  only  on  oil  —  funny  taste.  However,  these  poor 
oil-eating  bacteria  starve  and  die  off,  and  if  there  is  an  oil 
spill,  there  are  no  bacteria  to  eat  it.  It  takes  a  year  until  they 
multiply  back  and  then,  in  the  end,  Santa  Barbara  is  clean 
again.  We  could  have  these  bacterial  cultures  ready  to  go  if 
there  is  an  oil  spill.  And  there  is  hope  of  cleaning  up  the  oil 
spills  promptly.  Here  is  a  little  piece  of  technology  which 
should  be  pursued  and  isn't. 

There's  still  another  way  of  getting  oil.  In  all  the  oilfields 
under  our  feet  in  the  United  States  where  the  oil  has  been 
pumped  out,  the  "dry"  wells  still  have  at  their  bottoms  two- 
thirds  of  the  original  hydrocarbon.  There  are  various 
reasons  why  one  cannot  get  at  that.  The  most  common  is 
that  what  remains  is  too  viscous.  One  of  the  possible 
remedies  is  called  fire  drive.  You  pump  air  down  one  oil  well, 
light  a  fire  and  try  to  pump  out  of  a  neighboring  well.  The  fire 
will  heat  the  neighboring  oil  and  decrease  its  viscosity. 
Furthermore,  as  the  oil  burns  it  makes  carbon  dioxide, 
which  is  sucked  ahead  of  the  flames  and  dissolves  in  the  oil. 
And  oil  in  which  carbon  dioxide  is  dissolved  has  a  lower 
viscosity  still.  One  probably  could  get  a  second  third  of  the 
oil  reserve  this  way.  Good  work  by  the  oil  companies  is 
proceeding,  but  this  sort  of  thing  should  be  encouraged. 

Wherever  one  finds  oil,  one  usually  finds  gas.  We  need 
more  gas:  we  seem  to  be  running  out  of  it  and,  unlike  oil, 
gas  is  not  easily  transportable.  To  liquify  it  and  transport  it 
is  very  expensive,  about  $1  per  thousand  cubic  feet  of  high 
BTU  oil,  where  the  regulated  price  today  is  approximately 
27c.  We  could  produce  more  gas  from  tight  formations,  for- 
mations with  small  pore  sizes  which  have  to  be  shattered 
by  hydraulic  fracturing,  by  high  explosives,  or  by  nuclear 
explosives.  All  three  methods  have  to  be  tried.  Research  of 
this  kind  is  apt  to  pay  off  more  than  100  to  1  if  it  is  success- 
ful. I  believe  all  three,  but  in  fact  only  one  will  be  success- 
ful, and  one  does  not  know  which  approach  will  be 
successful,  because  whichever  of  the  three  is  cheapest  will 
get  rid  of  the  other  two.  But  nobody  can  predict  which  will 
be  the  cheapest,  which  will  be  the  most  adaptable.  What 
has  to  be  done  is  to  proceed  on  all  these  fronts  because  here 
is  the  possibility  of  much  more  oil,  much  more  gas  . .  . 
though  not  enough.  So  this  is  the  first  step.  It  could  come  at 
the  earliest  time.  It  could  suffice  for  a  few  years,  but  where 
do  we  go  next' 

Other  fossil  fuels 

So  the  second  point  in  the  program  which  I  am 
recommending  is  to  utilize  other  fossil  fuels.  These  can  be 
used  in  a  variety  of  ways.  I  want  to  zero  in  on  the  method 
which  I  believe  is  the  cheapest  and  best,  the  in  situ 
utilization  of  these  resources  where  we  convert  the  fossil 
fuel  into  something  that's  usable  right  where  the  fossil  fuel 
sits. 

In  the  case  of  coal,  this  has  been  tried,  it  hasn't  worked, 
and  we  know  why  it  hasn't  worked.  You  pump  in  air  or 
oxygen  in  one  well  that  you  have  sunk  into  a  coal  field  and 
you  try  to  draw  out  gas  out  of  a  neighboring  well,  having 
added  water  and  using  the  old  city  gas  process  according  to 
w  Inch  coal  ami  high  pressure  steam  will  give  hydrogen  and 
methane  and  carbon  monoxide.  Now  let  me  discuss  how  it 
works  itit  works  well  .  .  .  and  it  usually  doesn't.  You  sink  a 


10/ August  1974   WPI  Journal 


well  to  a  shallow  coal  vein  only  a  few  feet  thick  and  you 
pump  in  oxygen  if  you  want  high. quality  gas,  or  air  if  low 
quality  is  sufficient.  (It's  just  as  good  as  the  high  quality  gas, 
but  the  nitrogen  remains  in  it  and  dilutes  it,  and  then  it 
becomes  too  expensive  to  pump  around  in  pipe  lines.  You 
have  to  use  it  on  location.)  Now  you  try  to  pump  out  here 
from  another  well.  What  happens  first  of  all  is  that  the  whole 
thing  is  shallow,  so  you  can't  put  in  high  pressure  steam. 
Otherwise  it  blows  up.  Second,  if  the  burning  begins,  it 
proceeds  in  a  funny  profile.  It  burns  out  here  and  there  but 
then  the  gases  rise  and  only  the  top  of  the  field  burns.  And 
even  that  doesn't  burn  completely,  because  the  combustion 
goes  around  the  regions  which  are  less  permeable.  You  will 
find  fingers  which  extend  from  one  well  to  the  other,  and  the 
process  is  uneconomical. 

What  should  be  done,  what  my  colleagues  in  Livermore 
are  trying,  is  to  go  to  Montana  or  Wyoming  where  there  are 
deep  coal  layers  which  are  50  or  100  or  200  feet  thick,  and 
which  are  not  mined  because  they  are  too  deep.  Now  we  start 
by  planting  high  explosives,  one  ton  of  them.  An  explosion 
of  this  kind  at  a  depth  of  500  feet  or  more  will  just  tickle  your 
soles  if  you  stand  right  on  top  of  it,  so  there  is  no  trouble 
about  it.  With  these  explosions,  as  we  found  out  from 
nuclear  explosions  in  Nevada,  we  can  reduce  coal  to  rubble 
with  caves  in  between.  Now  we  pump  down  again,  let  us  say, 
oxygen  and  try  to  saturate  the  top  with  oxygen  and  light  it. 
We  light  it  throughout  the  whole  surface  of  many,  many 
acres  so  that  the  top  is  burning.  The  flame  will  not  spread 
farther  down  until  the  top  has  been  consumed.  This  way 
gravitation  works  for  us  and  we  can  burn  essentially  all  of  the 
coal;  furthermore,  we  now  have  a  head  of  500  feet  of  water, 
which  gives  enough  pressure  to  operate  where  the  chemical 
reaction  will  best  proceed. 

Maybe  this  process  won't  work,  but  it  should  be  tried.  We 
had  the  hardest  time  trying  to  sell  it,  and  we  now  have  $3.6 
million  to  try  it  nextyear,  enough  to  try  it  in  one  location.  It 
should  be  tried  simultaneously  in  a  dozen  locations  of 
different  properties.  We  believe  we  can  make  gas  this  way, 
not  for  the  regulated  27c  but  for  50c.  This  is  cheaper  than 


You  can  easily  get  confused 
about  oil  shale,  because  it  is  not 
shale  and  it  contains  no  oil. 


bringingin  the  gas  from  abroad.  This  is  cheaper  than  digging 
up  the  coal  from  below.  This  does  not  have  environmental 
disadvantages.  It  does  not  endanger  the  miners  and  it 
essentially  does  not  hurt  the  environment.  There  might  be, 
if  we  succeed,  some  subsidance,  but  we  are  not  going  to 
destroy  the  vegetation  on  the  surface.  What's  most 
important,  we  are  not  going  to  import  the  one  ingredient 
that  really  disturbs  the  environment  —  man.  If  we  wanted  to 
mine  the  coal  and  then  convert  it  in  man-made  steel  vessels, 
we  would  need  plenty  of  water,  and  in  addition  to  the 
300,000  souls  already  living  there,  a  million  more  would 
have  to  go  into  Wyoming;  strangely  enough,  the  people  in 
Wyoming  don't  look  forward  to  such  ample  company. 

There  is  a  similar  situation  with  respect  to  oil  shale.  (You 
can  easily  get  confused  about  oil  shale  because  it  is  a  material 
which  is  not  shale  and  it  does  not  contain  any  oil.)  Instead  of 
shale  it  is  essentially  a  calcium  carbonate  —  limestone.  And 
it  has  hydrocarbons  which  are  not  oil  but  which  will  become 
something  like  oil  when  you  heat  them  to  several  hundred 
degrees.  You  do  the  same  thing  as  I  described  to  you  in  thein 
situ  production  of  gas  from  coal.  It  is  beautiful.  First  of  all, 
you  don't  want  to  pump  in  oxygen,  you  pump  in  air  — 
because  what  you  are  going  after  is  not  gas  but  oil,  and  air  will 
not  mix  with  oil.  Second,  you  omit  the  water.  You  don't  need 
the  water.  You  dry  it  up.  Thirdly,  oil  shale  deposits  come  in 
phenomenally  thick  layers.  There  is  a  region  in  the 
northwest  corner  of  Colorado,  quite  desolate,  where  you 
find  these  oil  shale  deposits  in  a  thickness  of  2,000  feet.  The 
deposit  in  that  one  place  alone  amounts  to  four  A  units.  Now 
in  this  case  if  you  want  to  do  it  cheaply  you  should  make  a 
nuclear  explosion  below  the  oil  shale  layer.  In  the  case  of  coal 
I  did  not  propose  it  because  the  layer  was  too  thin.  Such  a 
nuclear  explosion  2,500  feet  below  the  surface  will  make  a 
cavity  200  feet  across,  relatively  small,  filled  with  rock  vapor 
and  carbon  dioxide  liberated  from  limestone.  Then,  as  the 
vapor  cools  the  roof  collapses  (we  have  seen  it  many  times  at 
our  test  site  in  Nevada )  and  this  continuing  collapse  extends 
upward  maybe  800  or  1 ,000  feet.  Now  you  have  rubble  there 
forming  a  natural  rubble  chimney,  a  natural  retort  in  which 
the  process  can  be  executed.  We  estimate  that  we  could 
make  oil  for  approximately  $3  a  barrel  by  this  method  in 
ample  amounts.  We  haven't  been  allowed  to  try  it,  not  even 
once.  Environmentalists  should  like  it  because  it  gives 
minimal  environmental  disturbance.  They  are  opposed  to 
it,  perhaps  because  they  think  of  a  nuclear  explosion  as  a 
nuclear  explosion  and,  of  necessity,  evil.  So  this  is  the  second 
possibility,  the  in  situ  production  of  gas  and  oil  in  a  vault. 
We  could  have  plenty  and  both  could  be  produced  relatively 
cheaply.  $3  per  barrel  and  50c  per  thousand  standard  cubic 
feet  are  costs  which  are  pretty  close  together  in  dollars  per 
calorie. 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/11 


Nuclear  Reactors 

Now,  a  third  approach  is  electricity  produced  with  the  help 
of  nuclear  reactors.  Some  people  raise  the  false  objection  that 
we  are  goingto  run  out  of  nuclear  fueland  therefore  we  need 
something  very  difficult  and  very  new  —  the  fast  breeder.  I 
used  to  think  this  wasa  really  important  project . . .  but  we've 
been  trying  to  get  it  going  for  29  years  and  it  hasn't  worked 
yet.  I  think  there's  a  lesson  there. 

About  thermal  pollution  we  have  an  expert,  and  the 
expert  sits  in  the  right  place .  She  is  Dixie  Lee  Ray,  head  of  the 
Atomic  Energy  Commission,  and  she  happens  to  be  a 
limnologist,  a  person  who  studies  the  fish  and  the  spinach  to 
be  found  in  lakes.  Her  remark  on  thermal  pollution  is  that 
the  fish  are  much  more  adaptable  than  most  people  think 
and  she  wishes  the  environmentalists  would  be  as  adaptable 
as  the  fish. 

Now  we  must  deal  with  the  radioactive  hazard  in  normal 
reactor  operation.  One  of  my  colleagues  at  Livermore,  Dr. 
Tamplin,  went  to  a  hearing  for  the  Dresden  III  reactor  in 
Illinois,  and  protested.  An  AEC  employee  asked  him,  "Dr. 
Tamplin,  from  which  do  you  think  you  would  get  more 
radiation  —  from  leaning  up  against  this  reactor  for  a  full 
year  or  from  your  habit  of  sleeping  with  your  wife  each 
night?"  Well,  Dr.  Tamplin  was  a  little  confused.  So  the  AEC 
guy  explained,  "I  don't  want  to  imply  that  your  wife  is  par- 
ticularly dangerous,  but  she,  as  all  of  us,  has  some 
potassium  in  her  blood  and  some  of  the  potassium  is 
radioactive  and  of  course  you  get  more  radiation  when  you 
are  next  to  her  than  from  your  own  potassium.  So  for  the 
sake  of  comparison,  the  reactor  or  your  wife?"  Dr.  Tamplin 
still  didn't  know.  So  the  AEC  man  went  home  and  wrote  a 
report,  which  fortunately  he  did  not  classify  (I  got  a  copy  of 
it).  He  describes  all  this  and  then  he  says,  "I  made  the 
calculation  and  I  found  that  one  gets  a  little  more  radiation 
from  Dresden  III,  and  therefore  I  will  not  recommend  to  the 
AEC  that  each  married  couple  should  purchase  twin  beds. 
However,  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  radiation  hazard,  I 
warn  against  the  practice  of  sleeping  each  night  with  two 
girls.  Then  you  get  more  than  from  Dresden  III."  So  he  has 
neatly  bracketed  the  danger  from  Dresden  III.  I  think  I  have 
answered  the  normal  radiation  danger  from  reactors  on  the 
level  which  this  worry  deserves. 


Therefore  I  will  not  recommendto 
the  AEC  that  each  married  couple 
should  purchase  twin  beds. 
However  I  warn  against  sleeping 
each  night  with  two  girls.  Then 
you  get  more  radiation  than  from 
Dresden  III. 


The  rare  accident  that  may  liberate  most  of  the  radiation 
of  a  reactor  is  a  much  more  serious  affair.  It  could  kill 
thousands  of  people.  It  could  shorten  the  lives  of  many  more 
thousands,-  but,  what  is  worse,  with  the  present  radiation 
hysteria  literally  millions  of  people  would  imagine  they 
were  dying.  This  is  something  that  never  must  happen.  So 
one  has  to  prevent  these  accidents,  even  though  reactors  can 
behave  in  all  kinds  of  surprising  ways.  I  have  been  chairman 
of  the  world's  first  reactor  safeguard  committee.  I  want  to 
quote  to  you  one  of  the  favorite  definitions  of  a  great 
physicist,  Neils  Bohr,  his  definition  of  an  expert.  An  expert  is 
a  man  who  through  his  own  painful  experience  has  found 
out  all  the  mistakes  one  can  commit  in  a  very  narrow  field. 

And  I  claim  that,  in  reactor  accidents,  no  experts  exist 
because  we  haven't  yet  found  out  all  the  mistakes  that  one 
might  commit.  We  have  been  very  careful  and  not  a  single 
major  accident  has  occurred  so  far.  But  we  must  be  even 
more  careful. 

I  want  to  make  one  suggestion  which  I  think  is  reasonable. 
Let's  build  reactors  by  first  digging  a  pit  in  dry  soil,  putting 
the  reactor  at  the  bottom  of  it  and  then  filling  up  the  pit  with 
appropriate  kinds  of  earth  —  dense  but  not  rock,  so  that  it 
won't  split,  and  200  feet  between  the  top  of  the  reactor  and 
the  surface  will  be  enough  to  guarantee,  from  all  our 
experience  with  hundreds  of  nuclear  explosions,  that  even  if 
the  reactor  destroys  itself  and  causes  damage  of  $500 
million,  not  a  single  person  will  be  hurt.  If  we  have  the 
reactor  underground,  we  need  pipes  going  down  and  that's  a 
little  dangerous.  Pipes  to  carry  cooling  water,  to  bringup  the 
steam.  The  turbines  can  be  on  the  surface  or  just  under 
grade.  They  need  lots  of  cooling  water,  the  reactor  does  not. 
You  need  an  access  shaft.  All  these  have  to  be  closed  up  if 
there's  real  trouble  but  you  have  200  feet  or  more  in  which  to 
make  the  closure.  And  the  greater  the  distance,  the  greater 
the  certainty  that  you  can  close  safely.  I  think  this  is  worth 
considering. 

Some  of  my  friends  have  estimated  that  this  will  cost  more 
than  present  reactorconstruction.  Others  say  it  will  cost50 
percent  more.  And  my  answer  to  that  is  so  what,  because 
today,  having  to  go  back  to  square  one  in  discussing  any 
reactor  wastes  years.  To  make  a  new  reactor  today  takes  ten 
years.  We  could  easily  and  safely  build  them  in  four  years  if 
we  only  could  convince  people  that  they  are  really  safe. 
Putting  them  underground  will  make  them  much  safer  and 
the  difference  between  four  and  ten  years,  in  the  present 
money  market,  corresponds  to  practically  doubling  the  price 
of  the  reactor. 

I'm  not  sure  that  putting  reactors  underground  is  the  best 
answer.  It  is  a  possible  answer,  and  the  scandal  is  that  no 
really  decent  engineering  study  has  been  made  yet. 
Nuclear  reactors  are  competitive  today.  They  could  be 
available  the  world  over  and  not  only  in  countries  which 
are  rich  in  oil  or  gas  or  coal  or  oil  shale  or  tar  sand.  1  hey 
could  be  used  everywhere  and  should  be.  And  furthermore 
there  is  no  danger  that  we'll  run  out  of  fuel.  Uranium,  par- 
ticularly poor  grade  uranium  which  we  can  afford,  is  abun- 
dant. We  know  in  present  reactors  how  to  use  an  auxiliary 
fuel,  thorium,  and  one  could  run  present  reactors  as  they 
are  or  with  slight  modifications,  in  such  a  way  that  four 
units  of  thorium  are  used  for  every  unit  of  uranium.  And 
thorium  is  and  will  remain  dirt  cheap.  And  as  time  goes  In 
gradual  improvements  Will  mean  that  you  need  less  and 
less  uranium  and  can  use  more  and  more  thorium.  So  here 


12      jgust1974   WPI  Journal 


is  an  important  solution.  Today  35  percent  of  our  energy 
goes  into  producing  electricity.  In  the  nuclear  form  it  is 
cheap  and  clean  and  we  can  make  it  safe.  And  I  hope  that 
by  the  turn  of  the  century  50  percent  of  our  energy  will 
come  from  reactors.  This  may  mean  a  thousand  reactors 
for  the  United  States,  which  may  mean  an  investment  of 
$500  to  $700  million.  We  can  afford  it.  In  fact,  other  energy 
sources  are  much  more  expensive. 

Don't  waste  it! 

The  last  point  of  technological  achievement  is  simply  to  cut 
down  on  the  wasteful  use  of  energy.  Of  course  that  can  be 
done  by  setting  the  thermostat  at  an  appropriate  level  or 
generally  being  a  little  more  spartan.  And  I'm  not  arguing 
against  such  principles.  But  the  real  point  is  that  an 
incredible  amount  can  be  saved  just  by  putting  in  more 
insulation. 

Now  I  would  like  to  give  you  two  examples  on  how  to 
save  energy.  One,  of  course  is  the  automobile.  I  have  saved 
all  my  criticism  for  Detroit,  because  if  someone  deserves  it, 
it  is  Detroit.  I  am  sure  that  except  for  the  mental  inertia  in 
Detroit  we  could  have  a  fifty  mile  per  gallon  car  in  perhaps 
as  short  a  time  as  three  years.  It  would  be  a  smaller  car, 
between  2,000  and  2,500  pounds.  It  should  be  a  hybrid,  hav- 
ing a  gasoline  engine  coupled  with  batteries,  maybe  simply 
lead-acid  batteries,  maybe  something  better.  The  latter  will 


The  way  we  make  steam  today  is 
to  boil  water  —  and  that's  wrong. 


be  too  heavy  if  you  want  to  run  on  batteries  alone  but  I 
want  to  run  on  batteries  only  for  short  trips,  twenty  miles 
or  less.  Then  you  can  plug  in  your  car  and  use  the  more  effi- 
cient electricity.  But  even  without  that  you  "can  get  fifty 
miles  per  gallon  if  you  take  the  best  gasoline  engine,  use  it 
at  its  optimal  speed  and  at  no  other  speed,  and  use  the  bat- 
teries partly  for  the  energy  surges  that  you  need  and  partly 
as  a  reservoir  into  which  to  put  back  energy  when  other- 
wise you  would  have  applied  your  brakes.  You  don't  throw 
away  the  energy  when  you  brake  your  car;  you  charge  up 
your  battery.  With  a  smaller  car  and  better  energy  econ- 
omy, you  could  have  cars  that  will  cost  more  but  which 
will  save  energy  and  in  a  couple  of  years  at  the  high  gasoline 
prices  which  are  and  may  be  coming,  you  will  have  the  cap- 
ital investment  paid  back.  We  are  not  going  to  get  some- 
thing for  nothing. 


Except  for  the  mental  inertia  in 
Detroit,  we  could  have  a  fifty  mile 
per  gallon  car  in  perhaps  three 
years. 


The  other  application  I  would  like  to  tell  you  about  also 
requires  some  investment  and  this  is  simply  the  use  of 
processed  steam,  which  is  one  of  the  biggest  energy  users  in 
the  United  States,  well  above  1 0  percent  of  all  our  energy  use. 
Now  let  me  tell  you  how  I  would  do  it.  The  way  we  make 
steam  today  is  to  boil  water  —  and  that's  wrong.  At  least  we 
shouldn't  boil  it  at  the  boiling  point.  And  we  certainly 
shouldn't  use  a  real  hot  flame  to  boil  it,  because  that's  high 
grade  energy,  and  it's  not  right  to  throw  away  these  high 
temperatures  and  the  entropy  that  this  implies  for  such  a 
relatively  minor  purpose  as  boiling  water.  One  way  to  do  it  is 
to  use  solar  heat,  solar  energy.  I  do  not  believe  in  the  use  of 
solar  energy  in  producing  electricity,  but  I  know  that  if  you 
are  satisfied  with  water  of  50  or  60°  C,  that  you  can  get  that  by 
using  black  surfaces  and  flowing  water  over  them  in 
appropriate  ways  and  covering  it  up  with  some  cheap  and 
transparent  covering  using  the  greenhouse  effect  —radiation 
in  but  not  out.  I  suggest  that  you  boil  water  at  50  or  60°  C, 
which  you  can  do  by  creating  a  modest  vacuum.  The 
vacuum  is  not  thin  enough  to  require  very  big  turbines  or 
very  much  machinery,  but  some  is  required.  You  are  using 
cheap  and  easily  replenished  solar  energy  or  other  low  grade 
energy.  Then,  you  use  work  derived  from  electricity  to 
compress  this  cool  steam  into  denser  hot  steam,  but  this 
costs  only  a  little  less  than  10  percent  of  all  the  energy.  Even 
today  we  can  produce  electricity  with  40  percent  efficiency, 
and  with  improved  methods  we  could  step  it  up  to  60 
percent. 

Now  these  are  the  four  legs  on  which  I  propose  to  build  an 
energy  program.  More  oil  and  gas,  the  in  situ  exploitation  of 
other  fossil  fuels,  nuclear  reactors,  and  technological  tricks 
to  utilize  energy  in  the  best  possible  ways.  There  is  no 
question  in  my  mind  that  if  we  go  after  the  main  points,  if  we 
are  not  distracted  by  will-o'-the-wisps,  and  if  we  use  the 
ample  resources  of  the  United  States,  we  in  this  country  can 
have  plenty  of  energy.  There  is  a  broader  problem  —  can 
there  be  enough  energy  for  the  world?  I  hope  yes,  but  I  have 
to  acknowledge  that  this  is  a  bigger  problem  about  which  I 
do  not  know  enough.  IP! 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/13 


Let  the  sun  shine  in 


Solar  Energy 


by  Dr.  Peter  E.  Glaser 


Dr.  Peter  Glasei  is  vice  president  and  head  of  engineering 
sciences  at  Arthur  D.  Little  Inc.  He  directs  advanced  engi- 
neering development  projects  on  the  use  of  solar  energy, 
space  and  lunar  science  instrumentation,  and  technology 
assessment.  Dr.  Glaser  is  a  graduate  of  Leeds  College  of 
Technology,  England,  and  Charles  University,  Prague.  He 
has  advanced  degrees  from  Columbia  University.  He  is  a 
past  president  of  the  Solar  Energy  Society  and  is  editor-in- 
chief  of  the  society's  journal. 


PEOPLE  DON'T  LAUGH  at  the  sun  these  days.  More 
people  are  interested  in  solar  energy,  and  they're  more 
attentive.  For  some  reason  they  don't  look  on  my  colleagues 
and  me  as  being  wild-blue-yonder  misguided  people  who 
obviously  are  working  on  something  that  may  never  come, 
or  if  it  does  come  it  will  be  at  some  future  time  and  have  a 
very  small  impact  on  the  way  we  organize  our  lives.  It  is  clear 
that  solar  energy  today  is  a  much  more  serious  proposition.  I 
would  like  to  survey  some  of  the  possible  applications  of 
solar  energy  today  and  indicate  where  we  can  go  from  here, 
what  some  of  the  challenges  are,  and  indicate  also  where 
some  of  the  costs  have  to  be  in  order  for  solar  energy  to  take  a 
place  in  the  competitive  scheme  of  our  future  energy  supply. 

The  sun  smiles  on  us  today,  so  in  a  sense  we  are  no  longer 
dealing  with  a  subject  that  is  strange  to  the  people  in  our 
government.  For  the  first  time,  the  United  States  is  spending 
a  significant  amount  for  solar  energy  research  and 
development.  Over  the  next  five  years  this  may  reach  about 
$200  to  $600  million,  dependingupon  which  of  the  various 
solar  energy  bills  passes  congress.  That  $200  million  is  the 
sum  of  money  which  Dr.  Dixie  Lee  Ray  has  proposed  as  part 
of  the  President's  $10  billion  funding  program  for  Project 
Independence;  the  $600  million  is  what  several 
congressmen  feel  and  what  industry  feels  is  a  more  realistic 
figure. 

By  the  time  we  receive  solar  energy  here  on  earth,  it  is 
about  1  kilowatt  per  square  meter.  As  such  it  is  highly 
diffused,  and  that's  where  some  of  the  problems  lie. 
Compared  even  to  the  flame  at  the  end  of  a  match,  we  have  to 
be  able  to  convert  it,  we  have  to  be  able  to  harness  it,  and  we 
therefore  have  to  be  able  to  cover  large  areas  in  order  to  do 
this  effectively.  We  have  used  solar  energy  in  many  ways 
without  even  thinking  about  it:  for  example,  the  drying  of 
fertilizer  in  Chile,  salt  in  Utah,  fish  on  countless  seacoasts,  or 
today,  in  these  energy-saving  days,  even  our  Monday 
morning  wash.  We've  tried  to  use  solar  energy  to  help  other 
people,  particularly  in  developing  countries,  with  the 
development  of  solar  cookers.  We've  learned  there  are  some 
problems  in  overcoming  cultural  resistance,  because  many 
of  these  peoples  prefer  to  eat  their  main  meal  at  night  rather 
than  at  lunch  time.  We've  also  thought  it  would  be  nice  to 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/15 


develop  these  solar  cookers  for  our  more  pleasurable 
moments,  and  indeed  some  of  these  devices  are  on  the 
market  today.  Somehow  they  haven't  quite  caught  on  as 
popularly  as  the  hula  hoop  did.  We've  also  learned  how  to 
take  the  heat  of  the  sun  and  use  it  to  distill  brackish  or  ocean 
water  in  a  solar  still  to  produce  fresh  water.  On  island 
communities  this  makes  eminent  economic  sense, 
particularly  if  you  use  10,000  gallons  or  less.  And  in  the 
Greek  islands  and  some  of  the  Pacific  islands,  on  the  coast  of 
Pakistan,  and  in  Australia,  these  kinds  of  solar  stills  are  in 
operation  today. 

The  next  step,  rather  than  just  vaporizing  water,  is  to  use 
the  sun's  heat  to  produce  hot  water.  There  are  plastic  hot 
water  heaters  developed  by  the  Japanese  which  you  can  buy 
for  S 10,  enabling  us  to  provide  hot  water  at  a  very  low  cost. 
Various  large  Japanese  companies  have  produced  millions  of 
these  hot  water  heaters  and  sold  them  all  over  the  world.  The 
Australians  have  added  an  electric  heater  so  that  you  can 
still  have  hot  water  even  when  the  clouds  obscure  the  sun, 
and  that's  what  it's  all  about.  They're  producing  about 
63,000  square  feet  of  these  hot  water  heaters  a  year  now  in 
Australia.  They've  equipped  schools,  hospitals,  and  other 
public  buildings  with  it.  The  Grover  Cleveland  Junior  High 
School  in  Boston  was  equipped  just  recently  with  similar  hot 
water  heaters,  so  we  can  learn  from  others.  There  are  four 
schools  in  all  which  were  equipped  with  these  hot  water 
heating  solar  collectors.  What  is  significant  about  this  is  that 
from  the  time  the  National  Science  Foundation  decided  to 
do  it  to  the  time  it  was  operational  took  exactly  two  months. 
That  says  something  about  the  maturity  of  the  technology 
and  our  capacity  to  produce  about  25,000  square  feet  of  solar 
collector  area.  With  this  we  can  also  heat  air  and  use  the  air 
for  such  prosaic  purposes  as  the  drying  of  wood,  which  of 
course  conserves  energy. 


There  is  a  house  in  Washington 
D.C.  that  cost  $1 2  to  heat  with  oil 
last  year. 


We  used  to  do  the  same  thing  in  this  country;  in  Florida 
solar  hot  water  heaters  were  very  popular  40  years  ago.  Today 
of  course  they  no  longer  are  because  natural  gas  came  in  and 
electricity  was  cheaper  and  it  was  just  simpler  not  to  bother 
with  things  on  the  roof  of  the  building.  I  talked  with  an 
acquaintance  who  had  one  of  these  on  his  roof  and  he  said, 


'  'Well,  the  price  oil  and  gas  are  now,  I  wish  I  still  had  mine  on 
the  roof  working."  If  you  look  at  the  amount  of  solar  energy 
we  have  available  to  us  in  the  United  States,  we  are  a 
fortunate  country,  because  just  about  everywhere  there  is 
enough  solar  energy  to  take  care  of  our  heating  and 
eventually  our  cooling  needs.  The  principle  involved  is  very 
straightforward.  We  put  a  so-called  solar  collector  on  the  roof 
of  the  building  and  we  pass  a  fluid  through  it,  which  may  be 
air  or  water  or  a  water-glycol  mixture  if  we  are  in  freezing 
climates.  This  heated  fluid  is  then  stored  in  a  tank  from 
which  it  may  be  withdrawn  whenever  we  wish  to  heat  the 
building.  We  use  an  auxiliary  heat  source,  since  it  wouldn't 
make  economic  sense  to  rely  completely  on  solar  energy. 
The  principle  of  solar  collectors  has  been  explored  for  many 
years,  analyzed  and  is  well  known.  Typically  one  or  two  glass 
panes  are  used  to  keep  the  convection  and  conduction  losses 
to  the  outside  to  a  minimum.  A  blackened  surface  is  used  to 
absorb  the  sun's  rays,-  if  this  is  insulated  as  an  absorber  plate, 
typically  metal,  we  can  obtain  reasonably  high 
temperatures,  between  170-200°F.  The  fluid  is  then  passed 
through  passages  in  the  absorber  plate  and  this  is  the 
objective,  to  heat  the  house.  M.I.T.  built  such  a  house  in  the 
1950's,-  it  operated  very  nicely  and  was  then  abandoned 
because  a  barrel  of  oil  cost  $1.75  and  the  solar  house  just 
didn't  make  any  economic  sense .  There  is  a  similar  house  in 
Washington,  D.C,  that  last  year  cost  about  $  1 2  to  heat  with 
oil.  There's  a  house  in  Denver,  Colorado,  in  which  the 
owner  has  lived  for  15  years  and  he  hasn't  had  to  maintain 
the  solar  collector  on  top  of  his  roof.  The  design  of  solar 
houses  is  usually  quite  pleasing  and  certainly  is  effective. 

We  can  go  the  next  step,  not  only  to  heat  but  also  to  cool, 
because  the  heat  can  be  used  to  actuate  a  refrigerator  based 
on  an  absorption  or  a  rankine  cycle  principle.  You  may  recall 
there  once  were  gas-operated  refrigerators.  So  we  have  a 
system  which  provides  heat  in  the  winter  and  cooling  in  the 
summer  with  some  auxiliary  input  from  electricity,  oil,  or 
gas. 

The  next  step  is  to  provide  not  only  heating  and  cooling 
but  electricity,  and  we  can  place  solar  cells  in  a  collector.  A 
house  has  been  built  by  the  University  of  Delaware  which 
also  produces  electricity  while  heating  and  cooling  the 
house.  We've  just  completed  the  design  of  a  laboratory  for 
the  Desert  Research  Institute.  This  will  primarily  use  solar 
energy  for  cooling,  and  it  indicates  that  you  can  have  a  fairly 
large  structure  supplied  with  solar  energy.  It  can  be 
aesthetically  pleasing  and  all  of  the  various  functions  of  a 
laboratory  can  be  built  into  it.  We've  also  completed  a  design 
for  an  office  building  for  the  Massachusetts  Audubon 
Society  in  Lincoln,  Massachusetts. 

You  might  ask  if  all  this  makes  economic  sense.  For  those 
of  you  who  wish  to  study  the  subject  I  urge  you  to  obtain  the 
NSF/NASA  Solar  Energy  Report  from  the  department  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  the  University  of  Maryland.  In 
1972thisrcportindicated  thatsolarheatingwas  competitive 
with  electrical  heating  in  eight  major  cities  of  the  United 
States.  With  the  upward  changes  in  the  cost  of  gas  and  oil,  of 
course,  it  may  now  be  competitive  in  many  other  regions  as 
well.Recognizingthispotcntial,  weat  Arthur D.  Littlehave 
started  what  we  call  our  solar  climate  control  project,  whose 
objective  is  to  look  at  the  possibility  of  developing  ;i  new 
industry  and  to  see  whether  we  can  indeed  make  technical 
sense  out  of  this  and  what  the  marketing,  economic,  and 
business  feasibilities  are.  We  now  have  HO  sponsors  of  this 


16/ August  1974   WPI  Journal 


project,  and  this  leads  me  to  believe  that  we  nave  an 
excellent  opportunity  to  see  in  this  country  in  perhaps  three 
to  five  years  at  a  cost  which  will  be  very  attractive  the  kind  of 
equipment  that  you  may  use  in  a  residential  setting  or  for 
public  buildings.  I  might  say  that  industry  can  make  an  offer 
which  most  people  will  find  hard  to  refuse. 

Another  way  we  are  using  solar  energy  and  expect  to  use 
more  is  to  grow  trees  and  algae  and  to  use  municipal  wastes. 
We  have  a  number  of  processes  which  allow  us  to  turn 
organic  materials  into  solid,  liquid,  or  gaseous  fuels.  One  ton 
of  dry  organic  material  produces  about  100,000  cubic  feet  of 
methane  and  about  two  barrels  of  oil  if  you  use  a  pyrolysis 
process.  We  can  also  use  our  municipal  wastes,  and  pilot 
plants  are  going  up  in  various  cities  so  that  we  can  recycle 
some  of  the  products  of  photosynthesis. 

The  concentration  of  sunlight  has  for  many  years  been  of 
great  interest  and  there  are  solar  furnaces  going  back  to  16 1 2. 
In  this  country,  a  solar  furnace  was  constructed  at  Natick 
and  used  by  the  U.S.  Army  to  do  high  temperature  research, 
to  expose  materials  to  temperatures  of  about  6,000°  F.  The 
French  have  built  a  solar  furnace  in  a  beautiful  setting  in  the 
southern  part  of  France.  They  have  heliostats  in  front  of  the 
huge  mirror  which  follow  the  sun  during  the  day  and  direct 
the  sun's  rays  toward  the  parabolic  mirror  where  they  can 
concentrate  the  sun's  rays  to  reach  6,000°F  and  have  an 
equivalent  output  of  1,000  kilowatts.  This  furnace,  for 
example,  can  burn  a  two-foot  diameter  hole  through  half- 
inch  thick  steel  plate  in  about  20  seconds,  a  really  awesome 
demonstration  of  solar  energy. 

Of  course  we  are  very  interested  in  the  production  of 
electricity  from  sunlight  and  we  have  a  number  of  routes 
open  to  us  —wind,  ocean,  thermal,  burning  the  clean  and 
renewable  fuels  such  as  I've  mentioned,  the  concentration 
of  sunlight,  and  the  direct  conversion  of  sunlight  into 
electricity  by  the  Photovoltaic  process.  Windmills  are 
thousands  of  years  old,  and  we  are  rediscovering  that  this  is 
indeed  a  workable  way  of  extracting  power  which  can 
operate  day  and  night.  A  windmill  was  constructed  in  the 
1940's  at  Grandpa's  Nob  in  Vermont  near  Rutland  and  it 
produced  1,125  kilowatts.  It  broke  during  an  ice  storm, 
teaching  us  that  construction  is  really  a  major  engineering 
problem.  Today  you  can  buy  windmills  of  this  size 
commercially,  and  there  are  thousands  of  them  in  use 
throughout  this  country  and  the  world.  Before  the  rural 
electrification  administration  came  along  in  the  1930's, 
farms  in  the  Midwest  produced  about  50,000  kilowatts  with 
windmills  of  this  type. 


We  can  extract  heat  from  the  sun-warmed  oceans.  The 
process  was  first  suggested  in  the  1890's  and  then  worked 
upon  by  Claude  in  1900.  A  plant  was  built  on  the  coast  of 
Cuba  in  1926,  another  on  the  coast  of  Africa  in  1956.  What 
we  do  is  scoop  up  the  sun- warmed  ocean  waters,  boil  off  a 
working  fluid  like  ammonia  or  propane,  and  finally  con- 
dense the  fluid  after  it  has  passed  through  a  turbine,  with 
very  cold  water  pumped  from  several  thousand  feet  below 
the  ocean  surface.  It  can  be  done  in  principle.  Again,  there 
are  engineering  problems  —  how  do  you  build  very  large 
heat  exchangers  which  are  efficient?  The  accent  here  must 
be  on  efficiency  since  the  overall  process  is  only  about  5  per- 
cent efficient  at  the  maximum.  Practical  efficiencies  are 
about  IVi  percent.  The  University  of  Massachusetts  has 
designed  a  platform  which  might  be  anchored  in  the  Gulf 
Stream  to  produce  400  megawatts  of  electrical  power,-  it  is 
possible  to  consider  anchoring  hundreds  of  these  platforms 
in  the  Gulf  Stream  without  unduly  affecting  the  tempera- 
ture of  the  current. 


We  can  extract  heat  from  sun- 
warmed  oceans ...  we  can 
consider  anchoring  hundreds  of 
these  platforms  in  the  Gulf 
Stream  without  unduly  affecting 
its  temperature. 


Direct  production  of  power  from  sunlight  has  again  been 
of  interest  for  many,  many  years.  In  1968 1  received  a 
Christmas  card  showing  the  central  attraction  of  the  Paris 
exposition  of  1 8  78,  which  was  a  solar  powered  steam  engine 
drivinga  printingpress  on  which  was  published  a  newspaper 
called  the  Sun.  The  idea  was  so  worthy  of  imitation  that  a 
man  built  such  a  device  in  California  in  1901  which 
produced  50  horsepower.  An  Egyptian  application  of  this 
was  designed  by  two  British  engineers,  Schuman  and  Boyd, 
who  produced  100  horsepower  to  pump  Nile  water  tor 
irrigation  purposes.  The  Israelis  produced  a  much  smaller 
device  which  was  competitive  with  the  diesel  engine  and 
was  exhibited  at  the  1961  United  Nations  Conference  on 
New  Sources  of  Energy  in  Rome.  In  this  country  this  solar 
steam  engine  has  been  rediscovered,  and  a  so-called  solar 
farm  was  proposed  by  Professor  Meinel  about  three  years 
ago,-  it's  remarkable  how  closely  it  parallels  the  work  done  in 
Egypt  in  1913.  Of  course  we've  learned  to  place  the  tubes 
which  are  heated  by  focused  sunlight  in  an  evacuated 
enclosure,  and  to  use  selective  radiation  coatings  which 
allow  us  to  heat  the  material  to  several  hundred  degrees  F. 


WPI Journal  August  1974/17 


The  principle  of  a  selective  radiation  coating  deserves  some 
explanation.  If  you  just  place  a  black  surface  in  sunlight,  in 
the  visible  part  of  the  spectrum  it  will  heat  up  and  then  in  the 
infrared  it  will  radiate,  reaching  a  fairly  high  temperature. 
But  the  radiant  heat  loss  is  what  we  want  to  do  away  with, 
and  therefore  we  use  a  coating  that  remains  black  in  the 
visible  and  acts  like  a  mirror  in  the  infrared,  and  we  can 
achieve  much  higher  temperatures  with  this. 

Pilot  plants  are  now  being  discussed  for  this  type  of  solar 
thermal  energy  conversion  plant.  The  disadvantage  of  such  a 
plant  is  that  you  have  to  have  heat  transfer  loops  and  the 
larger  the  plant  the  larger  the  heat  losses,  so  there's  a  practical 
limit  on  the  size  of  power  plant.  One  approach  to  obviate 
these  heat  losses  is  to  reflect  the  sun  rays  onto  a  steam  boiler 
with  a  series  of  mirrors,  and  the  Russians  did  this  about  15 
years  ago  in  a  power  plant  which  produced  about  1,500 
kilowatts. 


I  BELIEVE  that  really  the  future  of  solar  energy  con- 
version on  a  very  large  scale  lies  in  the  successful  realiza- 
tion of  a  low-cost  photovoltaic  process.  We  know  how  to 
convert  sunlight  directly  into  electricity.  This  was  done  at 
Bell  Labs  in  1953  with  a  silicon  solar  cell.  Silicon  is  the 
material  we  know  most  about.  It's  quite  familiar  in  the 
semiconductor  electronic  industry,  although  there  are 
some  other  materials  which  are  quite  interesting.  The  larg- 
est application  of  solar  cells  has  been  in  Skylab,  which  pro- 
duced 25  kilowatts.  In  spite  of  the  various  problems  they 
had  with  deploying  the  solar  cells,  it  was  a  very  successful 
space  mission  and  all  the  power  that  the  astronauts  used 
was  obtained  by  direct  conversion  of  sunlight  into  electric- 
ity. Now  this  tells  us  that  today  we  can  produce  large  arrays 
of  these  solar  cells.  But  we  don't  have  to  go  into  space  to  use 
solar  cells.  We  can  use  them  on  the  ground  for  communica- 
tion purposes;  on  the  sea  for  flashing  buoys,  where  during 
the  sunny  part  of  the  day  we  charge  up  batteries  and  then 
during  the  rest  of  the  day  they  provide  the  power  to  a  flash- 
ing light  or  communication  system,  as  on  an  unattended 
drilling  platform.  It  is,  of  course,  worth  a  lot  of  money  if  we 
don't  have  to  go  out  to  it  every  few  months  just  to  replace 
batteries.  The  Russians  have  done  a  lot  of  work  in  this  field 
and  they  have  produced  solar  cells  which  allow  concentra- 
tion of  sunlight  thereby  reducing  the  area  of  solar  cells 
required. 

Today  you  can  buy  solar  cells  for  these  applications  for 
about  $20  a  peak  watt  —  that  is,  at  the  maximum  sunshine 
available.  Within  two  years  this  is  expected  to  drop  to  $5  a 
watt,  and  within  ten  to  fifteen  years  to  about  $  1  a  watt  or  less,- 
there's  a  high  likelihood  that  perhaps,  as  a  market  develops, 
that  cost  will  reach  30  to  50  cents,  or  $500  a  kilowatt.  It's 
really  primarily  dependent  on  how  large  a  market  this  is.  A 
group  of  photovoltaic  specialists  got  together  a  conference  in 
Cherry  Hill,  New  Jersey,  last  October  and  projected  that  for 
$250  million  we  could  develop  the  process  and  do 
everything  necessary  to  come  up  with  this  low  cost.  By  the 
way,  this  cost  of  30  cents  is  five  times  the  cost  of  plate  glass, 
the  major  difference  being  the  energy  input  to  the  process. 
There  are  other  materials,  for  example  the  cadmium  sulfide 
thin  film  cells  which  can  be  mass  produced  again  at  low  cost. 
The  difference  is  that  a  silicon  cell  tends  to  be  more  efficient, 
about  15  percent;  the  cadmium  sulfide  thin  film  cell  about  5 
to  7  percent,  so  you  have  to  cover  a  much  larger  area. 
Somewhere  in  the  future  is  the  possibility  of  developing 
organic  semiconductors.  At  the  moment  these  are  still 
laboratory  curiosities  with  very  low  efficiency,  but  we  can 
imagine  producing  certain  plastic  materials  with  the 
semiconducting  properties  to  convert  sunlight  into 
electricity,  and  this  looks  very  interesting  for  the  future. 
This  then  allows  us  to  design  larger  areas,  on  rooftops  or  in 
the  sunny  part  of  the  Southwest,  where  we  can  directly 
convertsunlightintoelectricity.  Rememberthatifwehavc 
one  square  mile  of  these  devices,  even  if  they're  just  10 
percent  efficient,  we  can  generate  180,000  kilowatts  while 
the  sun  shines.  The  challenge  is  "while  the  sun  shines."  It 
means  that  since  it  does  not  always  shine,  we  have  to  ha\  e 
sonic  form  of  energy  storage  on  Earth,  which  may  include 
batteries,  pumping  water  to  a  higher  placed  reservoir, 
electrolysis  of  water  to  produce  hydrogen. 


18      jgust1974   WPI  Journal 


I'm  suggesting  we  use  a  fusion 
power  plant  which  has  been 

operating  successfully  for  billions 
of  years. 


I  suggested  in  1968  that  one  way  we  can  overcome  this 
difficulty  is  to  place  a  satellite  in  synchronous  orbit  around 
the  earth  where  we  have  continuous  sunlight  available  to  us. 
The  advantage  then  of  doing  that  is  that  in  this  particular 
location  we  not  only  have  no  weather  to  contend  with  and 
no  day  and  night,  but  also  because  we  are  in  zero  gravity  we 
can  use  very  flimsy  structures  greatly  reducing  the  weight 
requirements  and  theamount  of  materials  weuse.  Wehave 
studied  the  concept  of  a  satellite  solar  power  station,  and  it 
looks  to  us  like  this  is  not  only  technically  feasible  but  it  will 
be  a  very  interesting  and  competitive  way  of  producing 
power  on  a  very  large  scale  on  Earth.  The  way  this  is  done  is  to 
use  solar  cells  and  partial  concentration  of  sunlight  to  reduce 
the  area  of  solar  cells.  Then  the  electricity  from  the  solar  cells 
is  fed  to  microwave  generators  which  form  part  of  a 
transmitting  antenna,  which  allows  us  to  direct  a  beam  of 
microwaves  back  to  earth  where  the  microwaves  can  be 
converted  directly  into  electricity.  Today  we  can  convert 
microwaves  directly  to  DC  with  an  85  percent  efficiency. 


be  about  twice  the  cost  of  nuclear  power,  based  on  the  cost  of 
all  the  equipment  in  space  and  on  the  ground  as  well  as  the 
space  transportation  system.  And  we  find  that  all  of  the  other 
methods  which  rely  on  nonrenewable  fuel  most  likely  will 
increase  in  cost  as  the  fuels  get  scarce.  Even  nuclear  power, 
which  today  is  very  important,  though  perhaps  a  temporary 
stopgap  measure  to  meet  our  needs  over  the  next  thirty  or  so 
years,  will  eventually  have  to  be  costed  at  its  true  cost, 
including  insurance  as  well  as  the  disposal  of  radioactive 
waste  material.  We're  quite  confident  that  under  the 
conditions  we  expect  will  prevail  when  this  kind  of  device  is 
ready  twenty  or  so  years  from  now,  it  will  be  very 
competitive  with  just  about  any  other  energy  production 
method  and  thus  this  option  for  the  longer  term  ahead 
would  make  us  independent  of  any  other  energy  source  that 
we  may  need. 

I  believe  that  solar  and  fusion  power,  and  in  a  sense  both 
rely  on  the  same  physical  process,  can  be  the  key  to  the  long 
term  energy  independence  that  we  all  seek.  The  major 
difference  is  thatl'm  suggestingwe  use  a  fusion  power  plant 
which  has  been  operating  successfully  for  billions  of  years 
and  which  we  know  is  really  available  to  us  and  benign,  since 
all  life  depends  upon  it.  IIIDI 


Ifwehaveonesquaremile  of  solar 
cells  just  1 0  percent  efficent,  we 
can  generate  1 80,000  kilowatts  — 
while  the  sun  shines. 


There  is  no  thermodynamic  process  based  on  the  thermal 
cycle  which  can  obtain  this  kind  of  efficiency  on  Earth. 
Furthermore,  the  power  density  in  the  microwave  beam  is  so 
low  that  it  does  not  constitute  a  hazard.  We  are  able  to  devise 
a  system  for  locking  the  microwave  beam  onto  the  receiving 
station  so  that  it  cannot  move  to  any  other  place,-  even  if 
somebody  would  try  and  do  so,  the  beam  would  demodulate 
and  the  signal  level  then  reaching  the  earth  would  be  that  of  a 
TV  signal.  Since  we  have  a  lot  of  space  available  to  us  in 
synchronous  orbit,  we  can  talk  about  very  large  solar 
collector  arrays  to  produce  power  on  Earth  which  may  range 
from  2,000  to  20,000  megawatts  and  do  so  in  any  desired 
location.  You're  no  longer  restricted  to  having  a  sun  area, 
and  you  can  imagine  what  this  means  to  nations  that  don't 
have  areas  like  Arizona  within  their  boundaries.  It  may  also 
be  interesting  to  look  at  the  cost,  which  today  we  project  will 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/19 


Commencement  and 


A 

E»*t. 

Ik 

^^^           ^^ 

'  vQ 

■t 

r    1  ^^1 

STREAK       0 

3 

TEO  LEN    UNO    JOHN    1 

MERC    RUSS  STEVE     RUBES    CHOOCM 
truo  KARL    Lit    8»RB   HAMOUO    \ 
STOr«      >BE      LORRfHOHIC     ROLL  IE 
LiRRr   ANN    BILLT  MCX  vljAY    HELEN    ! 


"CONGRATULATIONS 


THE  RAIN  GODS,  which  spent  all 
spring  trying  to  flood  New 
England  and  maybe  float  it  out  to  sea, 
apparently  liked  the  idea  of 
Commencement  and  Reunion  this 
year,  for  both  events,  on  separate 
weekends,  were  blessed  with  fine 
weather. 

Commencement  was  its  usual 
mixture  of  pageantry  and  pomp,  relief 
that  the  four-year  college  trip  was  now 
officially  over,  and  celebration  of  jobs 
and  marriages  and  grad  schools  to 
come.  Exactly  400  degrees  were  given 
out,  including  the  single  honorary 
doctor  of  engineering  presented  to 
former  U.S.  Attorney  General  Elliot 
Richardson. 

In  his  commencement  address, 
Richardson  called  for  the 
decentralization  of  federal 
government  power.  "One  of  the 
byproducts  of  Watergate  should  be  a 
speedingup  of  the  process  of  givingthe 
individual  a  greater  degree  of 
participation  in  the  federal 
government . .  .  Watergate  warned  us 
of  the  dangers  of  a  powerful 
centralized  government  —  a 
suppression  of  privacy,  widespread  use 
of  electronic  surveillance." 
Richardson  argued  that  the  federal 
powers  should  be  subdivided,  "even  if 
it  reduces  the  efficiency  of 
government,  but  it's  unlikely  that  we'd 
have  to  pay  that  cost."  Commenting 
on  the  course  of  the  Watergate 
investigation  since  his  resignation  last 
October,  when  he  refused  to  fire 
special  prosecutor  Archibald  Cox, 
Richardson  concluded  that  "we've 
seen  that  the  Constitution  system  of 
two  hundred  yearsago  is  working  well. 
The  courts  and  Congress  are  playing 
their  proper  roles.  Congress  is  doing  a 
particularly  creditable  job  in  avoiding 
partisan  politics." 

Richardson  spoke  at  WPI  as  one  leg 
of  a  marathon  commencement- 
speaking  tour  which  saw  him  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  and  Yale 
before  WPI,  and  at  the  Worcester 
Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology 
afterwards. 


20 /August  1974   WPI  Journal 


REUNION  THIS  YEAR  attracted 
nearly  a  thousand  people  to  the 
WPI  campus,  by  the  time  the  families 
of  returning  alumni  were  all  counted. 
Along  with  many  individual  class 
functions,  the  Association  sponsored  a 
Friday  night  "Good  Old  Days  Get- 
Together"  with  beer,  peanuts,  and 
banjo  music.  A  day-long  seminar  on 
"Changing  American  Values"  had 
been  scheduled,  but  this  had  to  be 
canceled  because  not  enough  people 
registered  to  make  the  program 
possible. 

On  Saturday,  Reunion  Day,  some 
450  people  turned  out  to  visit  with  one 
another,  tour  the  campus  (including 
car- free  West  Street),  and  attend  the 
annual  Reunion  luncheon.  At  that 
time,  the  Class  of  1924,  celebrating 
their  fiftieth  anniversary,  walked 
away  with  the  attendance  cup  (and  the 
accompanying  bottle  of  champagne) 
for  having  75  percent  of  the  living  class 
members  there. 

One  of  the  important  events  of  the 
day  is  the  presentation  of  the  annual 
awards.  Recognition  for  dedicated 
service  to  WPI  and  the  Alumni 
Association,  in  the  form  of  the  Herbert 
F.  Taylor  awards,  was  given  to  Chester 
F.  Inman,  '14,  one  of  the  founders  of 
the  Alumni  Fund  and  a  man  long 
concerned  with  investment  returns 
from  Association  funds;  to  C.  Eugene 
Center,  '30,  architect  of  the  current 
alumni  trustee  selection  process;  and 
to  Luther  C.  Leavitt,  '34,  an  active 
chapter  leader,  Council  and  Fund 
Board  member. 

Robert  H.  Goddard  awards,  for 
outstanding  achievement  in  their 
professional  life,  were  presented  to 
Howard  C.  Warren,  '42,  an 
entrepreneur  who  started  an 
instrument  company  in  his  basement 
and  parlayed  it  from  there  until  he  is 
now  board  chairman  and  chief 
executive  of  the  Riley  Company;  to 
William  R.  Grogan,  '46,  WPI's  dean  of 
undergraduate  studies  and  one  of  the 
guidinglights  of  the  WPI  Plan's  design 
and  development;  to  Ravindra  L. 
Kirloskar,  '38,  founder  of  the  largest 
electrical  equipment  firm  in  India  and 
a  leader  in  his  country 's  economic  and 
industrial  development;  and  to 


Reunion 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/21 


George  R.  Rich,  '19,  honorary  DEng 
'48,  an  engineer  instrumental  in  the 
design  and  building  of  the  Tennessee 
Valley  Authority,  the  Saint  Lawrence 
River  Power  Development,  and  many 
other  steam  power  plants,  flood- 
control  facilities,  and  hydroelectric 
developments. 

Association  officers  for  the  coming 
year  include  the  following  elections 
and  reelections:  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46, 
reelected  president,-  William  A.  Julian, 
'49,  vice  president;  Leonard  Polizzotto, 
70,  member-at-large  of  the  Executive 
Committee;  Bradley  E.  Hosmer,  '61, 
reelected  to  the  Executive  Committee; 
Walter  J.  Charow,  '49,  reelected  to  the 
Fund  Board;  G.  Albert  Anderson,  '51, 
newly  elected  to  the  Fund  Board;  Paul 
W.  Bayliss,  '60,  Trustee  Search 
Committee;  and  Stephen  J.  Hebert, 
'66,  still  secretary-treasurer. 

The  week  before,  the  WPI  Board  of 
Trustees  welcomed  two  new  alumni 
trustees  and  reelected  a  third.  The 
returning  trustee  is  John  E.  Hossack, 
'46,  vice  president  and  director  of  the 
American  Appraisal  Company  of 
Milwaukee,  Wisconsin.  Hossack  has 
been  a  WPI  Board  member  since  1964 
and  is  chaiman  of  the  Board's  Finance 
Committee.  The  new  trustees  are  C. 
Marshall  Dann,  '35,  currently  U.S. 
Commissioner  of  Patents  in  the 
Department  of  Commerce,  and 
Hilliard  W.  Paige,  '41,  chairman  and 
chief  executive  officer  of  CMLSatellite 
Corporation  and  until  last  year 
president  of  General  Dynamics 
Corporation. 


Immediately  above,  Richard 
Burke,  '38,  is  shown  talking 
with  Ravindra  Kirloskar,  his 
classmate.  Burke  retired  as 
chairman  of  the  Alumni  Fund 
Board  after  six  years  of  lead- 
ership. 


22      <jgust1974    WPI  Journal 


1912  -  62nd 

It  may  be  that  1912  has  come  to  the  end  of 
an  era.  We  had  only  three  at  our  reunion : 
Henry  and  Madeline  Rickett  and  Harri- 
son Brown.  But  we  increased  the  party 
33%  by  adopting  Joseph  K.  Schofield, 
1909,  for  the  evening. 

From  letters  received  from  16  of  our  24 
living  members  and  from  1 1  of  our  20 
widows,  we  find  there  is  still  a  lot  of  life  in 
the  class.  Only  a  few  are  in  poor  health. 
But  many  have  given  up  or  reduced  driv- 
ing a  car,  especially  at  night.  Those  who 
live  1000  or  more  miles  away  are  reluc- 
tant to  make  the  trip. 

At  our  50th  in  1962  we  invited  our 
wives  for  the  first  time  and  spent  two  full 
days  at  Northfield.  We  then  voted  to 
meet  every  year  with  our  wives,  also  wid- 
ows of  our  deceased  classmates.  For 
eleven  years  we  have  had  a  minimum  of  8 
at  these  reunions.  We  consider  this  a  suc- 
cess. Next  year  we  may  have  an  informal 
meeting  but  as  long  as  we  get  letters  from 
two-thirds  of  our  members,  our  spirits  our 
running  high. 

Harrison  G.  Brown 
Secretary 


1914  -  60th 

The  day  arrived!  Warm,  sunny,  beautiful, 
with  just  a  gentle  breeze  to  make  the  sun 
feel  even  softer.  What  could  be  more 
lovely  than  this,  our  day  in  June?  It  was 
Friday,  the  seventh  of  the  month  in  1974, 
and  some  of  the  Class  of  1914  were  arriv-' 
ing  with  their  wives  at  the  Copper  Lan- 
tern Motel  in  West  Brookfield,  the  same 
place  that  we  celebrated  our  last  reunion 
five  years  ago.  Impossible  but  true,  that 
this  was  our  60th  year  out  of  Tech.  The 
busy  eventful  years  had  slipped  by  so  fast 
and  here  we  were  old  only  by  recorded 
time,  but  still  young  in  spirit. 

Most  of  us  arrived  in  the  morning  early 
enough  to  sit  outdoors  in  earnest,  inter- 
esting conversation  on  the  lovely 
spacious  lawn  that  sloped  gradually  down 
to  the  Quabog  River  in  the  distance.  We 
talked  of  everything,  children,  grand- 
children, families,  former  professors  and 


about  how  different  was  the  world  of 
1974  compared  with  1914. 

To  make  our  discussions  more  relax- 
ing, and  perhaps  more  interesting,  our 
genial  and  generous  Class  President,  Mike 
Dufault,  invited  us  to  use  his  room, 
which  was  adequately  stocked  with  vari- 
ous beverages  such  as,  gingerale,  coke, 
soda  water,  and  some  other  colored  con- 
coctions. This  helped  out  our  thirst  and 
our  tongues,  and  contributed  to  a  sense  of 
complete  well  being  and  enjoyment.  As 
we  left  Mike's  room  for  the  last  time 
before  lunch,  it  appeared  that  some  of  the 
colored  fluid  containers  were  empty, 
whereas  the  gingerale,  and  the  coke  bot- 
tles had  hardly  been  disturbed. 

Sixty  years?  Well  perhaps  those  of  us 
who  are  left  deserved  that  friendly  relax- 
ing and  wonderful  time  together.  Lunch 
at  Salem  Cross  Inn,  a  little  way  up  the 
road,  was  enjoyable  and  good.  Our 
tongues  continued  to  wag  because  we  had 
so  much  to  say  to  each  other  and  we  sat  at 
the  table  long  after  our  food  was 
consumed. 

The  afternoon  conference  again  on  the 
lovely  back  lawn  was  perhaps  a  little  less 
talkative  until  the  official  photographer, 
whom  Mike  had  arranged  for,  arrived  in 
the  late  afternoon  to  record  our  gathering 
on  film. 

Our  dinner,  again  at  the  Salem  Cross 
Inn,  was  quite  an  affair,  good  food, 
excellent  service,  and  congenial  class- 
mates and  wives  to  communicate  with. 
The  following  sixteen  people  were 
present:  Win  and  Mary  Brown,  Horace 
Cole,  Al  and  Matilda  Crandon,  Mike  and 
Chris  Dufault,  Bud  and  Dorothy  Hen- 
nessy,  Earl  Hughes,  Chet  Inman,  Kirt 
Marsh,  George  Ross  and  his  daughter-in- 
law  Helen  Ross,  Bill  and  Frances  Spratt. 
Following  the  dinner,  Mike  Dufault 
called  the  roll  of  the  class,  just  as 
"Coombsie"  (Prof.  Coombs)  used  to  do  it 
in  our  Freshman  year.  With  only  ten  men 
to  answer  "Here",  out  of  the  hundred 
plus  who  formerly  replied,  we  had  an 
opportunity  for  deep  thought,  and 
another  chance  to  thank  God  that  we 
were  indeed  alive  and  "Here".  We  stayed 
at  the  table  a  long  long  time  discussing 
many  things,  our  absent  classmates,  our 
former  professors,  and  our  new  and 


changing  College  of  today,  and  tomorrow. 
What  will  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, our  Alma  Mater,  be  like  in  the  years 
to  come?  Who  knows?  But  assuredly  we 
will  not  be  here  to  find  out. 

Letters  were  read  from  some  of  our 
interested  but  absent  classmates.  They 
sent  their  best  wishes  for  a  Happy  Reun- 
ion and  explaining  that  they  were  with  us 
in  spirit,  if  not  in  body.  A  second  letter 
was  received  from  Si  Zung  Yang,  who 
came  to  Tech  in  1914,  originally  from 
Mainland  China,  and  now  living  in  Tai- 
wan, some  12,100  miles  away.  He  told 
Mike  that  he  celebrated  our  Reunion  by 
eating  a  "boiled  duck's  foot"  for  dinner. 
"It  is  simple,"  he  says,  "but  is  considered 
a  gourmet  item  here  in  Tapei,  Taiwan." 
How  we  wish  that  Yan  and  our  other 
absent  class  members  could  have  been 
with  us. 

Following  a  good  breakfast  at  a  nice 
little  restaurant  in  the  town  the  next 
morning  we  assembled  on  the  campus  in 
the  lobby  of  Harrington  Auditorium  for 
the  1  LOO  a.m.  50  Year  Associates  Meet- 
ing. President  Hazzard  interestingly 
addressed  the  group  as  did  the  young,  per- 
sonable and  energetic  president,  Bill  Del- 
phos,  of  the  Class  of  1974.  Bill's  remarks  to 
the  old  graduates  were  concise,  to  the 
point,  and  worthwhile.  His  delivery  was 
friendly,  clear,  impressive  and  most 
remarkable. 

It  was  our  pleasure  to  find  Clayt  and 
Marion  Wilcox  at  the  Reunion  Lun- 
cheon. We  were  sorry  not  to  have  had 
their  company  in  West  Brookfield. 

All  members  of  the  1914  Class  were 
proud  to  rise  in  tribute  to  Chester  M. 
Inman,  as  he  was  presented  an  award 
from  the  Head  Table  by  the  College  for 
"Sixty  Years  of  an  uninterrupted  carrer  of 
service  to  WPI."  Chet,  our  Class  extends 
its  best  wishes  to  you  with  very  great 
pride  in  the  honor  you  have  received  for 
your  worthwhile  achievements  for  our 
College. 

For  this  60th  Reunion  we  owe  a  great 
deal  of  gratitude  to  our  energetic  and 
hard  working  President,  Mike  Dufault, 
for  what  he  did,  and  he  did  it  all,  to  make 
the  reunion  a  success.  Indeed,  we  owe 
him  our  thanks  for  all  of  his  work  in  pre- 
siding over  our  class  for  the  entire  sixty 
years.  He  has  been  an  excellent  President, 
an  efficient  executive,  a  charming  gentle- 
man, a  good  friend,  and  a  real  nice  all 
around  guy.  Mike,  we  love  you  and  sin- 
cerely thank  you. 

To  those  of  the  Class  of  19 14  who  could 
not  come  to  this  Reunion,  and  to  those  of 
you  who  have  never  come,  we  send  our 
best  wishes.  As  Win  Brown  so  sincerely 
put  it  "we  ask  for  God's  Blessing  upon 
you  all." 

Ellwood  N.  "Bud"  Hennessy 
Secretary 


WPI  Journal  August  1974/23 


1924  -  50th 

The  50th  anniversay  class  of  1924  were 
graciously  entertained  with  a  cocktail 
hour  given  by  President  and  Mrs.  Hazzard 
on  Thursday,  June  6th,  1974.  Orchid  cor- 
sages for  the  ladies  added  a  festive  note. 
The  reception  was  followed  by  a  banquet 
in  the  feudal  atmosphere  of  the  Higgins 
House  given  by  WPI  in  honor  of  the  occa- 
sion. President  Hazzard,  introduced  by 
the  Alumni  Secretary,  Steve  Hebert,  wel- 
comed the  class  and  brought  us  up  to  date 
on  the  present  operation  of  the  Institute. 
The  booklet,  edited  and  printed  by  Don 
Wilson  and  Les  Hooper,  containing  the 
history  of  our  class  was  distributed  by  Les 
Hooper.  This  will  be  made  available  to  all 
class  members.  They  contain  the  avail- 
able resumes  of  the  entire  class. 

Travel  by  bus  between  appointments 
had  been  thoughtfully  provided  by  the 
Alumni  Association. 

Buffet  luncheon  was  served  at  Morgan 
Hall,  at  noon  on  Friday,  June  7th.  This 
was  followed  by  a  walking  tour  of  the 
campus.  The  Harrington  Auditorium 
brought  back  many  memories  of  the  old 
Gym.  The  new  bowling  alleys,  with  a 
champion  bowling  team,  were  a  far  cry 
from  the  two  alleys  we  remembered.  The 
campus  tour  ended  at  the  Seminar  Room, 
Gordon  Library.  Some  members  went 
from  here  to  the  Worcester  Art  Museum, 
while  the  rest  met  with  Roger  Perry, 
Director  of  Public  Relations  and  Prof.  Roy 
Bourgault.  They  explained  the  WPI  Plan 
and  the  operation  of  the  IPI  program.  A 
good  question  and  answer  period 
followed. 

We  gathered  for  our  50th  reunion  class 
picture  at  the  Sheraton,  Yankee  Drum- 
mer Inn.  From  left  to  right,  standing;  M/ 
M  Ronca,  Gallotte,  Terry  Counihan,  M/ 
M  Bragg,  M/M  Storms,  M/M  McElroy, 
M/M  Johnson,  Nilson,  Bartlett,  Estes,  M/ 
M  Danielson  &  M/M  Burke.  Front  row,- 
M/M  Hooper,  M/M  MacAdam,  M/M 
Leyland,  M/M  Alberti,  M/M  Hurd,  M/M 
Miller,  M/M  Wilson,  M/M  Anderson. 
Present  but  not  in  picture  M/M  Wilcox 
&  M/M  Kallander.  M/M  Preston  Hale 
and  Warren  Fish  with  guest  attended  the 
Alumni  Dav  Dinner 

Following  the  reunion  banquet  a  meet- 
ing was  called  by  Helge  Johnson.  The  fol- 
lowing motions  were  approved :  ( 1 )  the 
balance  of  all  class  funds  would  be  turned 
over  to  the  Alumni  Association  by  the 
treasurer  after  all  bills  had  been  paid;  (2) 
it  was  voted  that  the  class  gift  be  given  to 
the  Alumni  Association  to  be  used  at 
their  discretion;  (3)  also  voted  that  the 
present  class  officers  would  propose  a  new 
slate  of  officers,  the  slate  to  be  mailed  to 
the  class  membership  for  their  consid- 
eration There  was  a  discussion  of  future 
reunions  and  five  year  periods  were 
agreed  upon.  A  letter  was  read  from 
Dorothy  Styffe,  widow  of  lack  Styffe, 


regretting  that  she  could  not  be  with  us 
but  sending  the  class  of  1924  her  best 
wishes.  Letters  were  read  from  Lionel 
Lundgren  and  Frank  Linsley.  Each  mem- 
ber and  their  wife  spoke  briefly.  Mrs. 
Alberti  added  this  bit  of  wisdom:  "I  can 
see  through  my  bifocals,  my  dentures  suit 
me  fine,  I  can  live  with  my  arthritis  —  But 
how  I  miss  my  mind!" 

We  attended  our  first  50  year  Associa- 
tion Meeting  on  Saturday  and  received 
our  50  year  diplomas  at  the  Reunion  lun- 
cheon held  in  Harrington  Auditorium. 
The  class  gift  was  presented  by  Norm 
Alberti.  We  received  the  best  attendance 
cup. 

All  arrangements  for  this  successful, 
enjoyable  reunion  were  made  by  one  of 
our  busiest  members,  Dr.  Leslie  Hooper. 
We  were  grateful  for  the  cooperation  and 
help  given  to  us  by  Steve  Hebert,  Alumni 
Secretary  and  by  his  staff.  Please  notify 
them  of  any  change  of  address. 
Don  Wilson 


1929  -  45th 

When  the  preliminary  Reunion  meeting 
was  held  last  Fall,  no  one  dreamed  that  we 
were  on  the  verge  of  an  energy  shortage. 
Then  during  the  winter,  there  were  times 
when  it  seemed  that  there  might  not  be 
any  Reunions.  Fortunately,  by  June,  the 
situation  had  eased,  so  that  we  were  able 
to  count  38  at  the  banquet.  Attending 
were:  Berry,  Cook,  O'Connell,  Gilbert, 
Richmond,  Heald,  Crosby,  Petrie,  Carl- 
son, Deranian,  Donahue,  Horton,  Barn- 
ard, Matson,  and  Labonte,  all  with  their 
own  wives.  Alone  were  Dobie,  Wiley, 
Wiesman,  Robinson,  Newton.  In  addi- 
tion it  was  with  real  pleasure  that  we  were 
able  to  welcome  Bea  Merrill,  Norm's 
widow.  Stone,  Nims,  and  Abadjieff  were 
able  to  make  the  General  Alumni  Reun- 
ion Luncheon  Saturday  Noon.  The 
Berrys,  who  drove  up  from  Florida,  take 
the  prize  for  distance,  and  are  to  be  con- 


gratulated. The  weather  was  perfect  both 
days.  For  the  first  time,  Art  Knight  was 
unable  to  attend  because  of  his  health. 
We  sincerely  hope  that  he  will  continue 
to  improve,  and  will  be  with  us  at  the 
50th.  Another  sad  note  was  the  realiza- 
tion that  24  of  our  classmates  have  passed 
on,  8  since  the  last  reunion.  This  year, 
some  traditions  were  pushed  aside  in 
order  to  afford  as  much  time  as  possible 
for  visiting  with  each  other.  We  did  not 
have  any  entertainment  nor  speakers. 
Even  then,  the  time  passed  all  too 
quickly.  After  Dinner,  each  in  turn  gave  a 
summary  of  current  activities.  At  one 
time,  the  interest  was  in  the  growing  fam- 
ilies. More  recently,  grandchildren  were 
at  the  center  of  the  stage,  Now,  it  is  how 
retirement  time  is  being  spent.  It  seems 
that  almost  everybody  has  retired 
already.  In  fact,  those  of  us  who  are  still 
working  feel  a  little  out  of  step.  How 
times  change.  Letters  and  notes  of  regret 
were  received  from  Knight,  Cushman, 
Clapp,  Chin,  Holt,  and  Burr.  Burr  is  now 
head  of  the  mechanical  engineering 
department  at  the  University  of  the 
Americas,  Puebla,  Mexico.  He  would  be 
happy  to  see  anyone  who  happened  to  be 
in  that  area.  He  has  been  traveling  all  over 
the  world,  teaching  and  lecturing  in 
South  America,  India  and  Australia. 
Many  of  the  retirees  are  also  becoming 
world  travelers,  with  trips  to  all  parts  of 
North  and  South  America  and  Europe. 
Time  was  taken  for  elections.  Wiesman 
was  elected  Chairman  of  the  50th;  Hor- 
ton, Chairman  of  the  Gift  committee, 
and  to  round  out  our  slate  of  officers, 
Barnard  was  elected  Vice  President.  A  big 
vote  of  thanks  is  due  the  committee  for 
their  willing  efforts  during  these  trying 
times:  Wiesman,  Donahue,  Deranian, 
and  O'Connell.  Each  Reunion  seems  bet- 
ter than  the  last  and  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
old  classmates  increases  every  time.  We 
look  forward  with  great  anticipation  to 
the  50th.  We  are  sure  that  everyone  who 
possibly  can,  will  be  there. 

1929 


24/ August  1974   WPI  Journal 


#a* 


ft  V 


& 


7949 


7979 


7944 


7924 


1944  -  30th 

The  Class  of  1944  began  its  30th  reunion 
activities  on  Friday  evening,  June  7,  at  the 
"Good  Old  Days  Get  Together"  held  at 
Morgan  Hall.  This  gave  us  a  chance  to 
unwind,  renew  acquaintances,  and  sing 
and  dance  to  a  banjo  band. 

Saturday,  June  8th,  proved  to  be 
another  beautiful  day  with  various  activi- 
ties lined  up  for  us  plus  other  activities 
that  came  up  including  a  heralded  tennis 
match  between  the  Roths  and  Clayton- 
Terpo.  Our  30th  reunion  dinner  was  held 
at  the  Worcester  Country  Club,  preceded 
by  a  cocktail  hour  by  the  pool,  giving  us 
another  opportunity  to  renew  acquaint- 
ances with  those  who  arrived  on  Satur- 
day. After  sitting  down  to  a  delicious 
roast  beef  dinner,  Jim  Donahue  opened 
the  reunion  meeting  in  his  usual  rare 
form.  Our  speaker,  Tom  Denney,  brought 
us  up  to  date  on  WPI  today  in  a  most 
interesting  and  humorous  way.  Len  Israel 
was  responsible  for  all  of  the  banners, 
signs,  tags,  and  hats  which  livened  up  fes- 
tivities. John  Patterson  was  responsible 
for  the  awards  and  prizes  made  that  eve- 
ning, and  they  were  outstandingly 
unique.  Following  the  meeting  we  were 
invited  to  attend  a  floor  show,  and  this 
was  followed  by  dancing  to  conclude  the 
evening.  For  those  real  hardy  souls  who 
stayed  on,  and  there  were  a  large  number, 
we  sang  to  Jim  Donahue's  piano  accom- 
paniments into  the  wee  hours  of  the 
morning. 

Members  of  the  class  in  attendance 
were:  Gordon  Anderson,  Roy  Baharian, 
John  Bateman,  Tom  Bombicino,  Dave 
Clayton,  Charlie  Cooper,  Jim  Donahue, 
Roger  French,  Len  Israel,  Bud  Holbrook, 
Erl  Lagerholm,  Dick  Merrell,  Bill  Ray- 
mond, Miles  Roth,  Dick  Russell,  John  Pat- 
terson, Kim  Woodbury,  and  Chris  Terpo. 
For  all  of  you  unable  to  attend,  our  deep- 
est sympathies!  Your  regrets  and  greetings 
were  read  to  the  class. 

See  you  at  the  next  reunion! 
Christopher  T.  Terpo 
Chairman 


place  on  the  Tech  Campus.  "You  haven't 
changed  a  bit"  was  the  greeting  most  com- 
monly voiced  to  one  another  by  the 
slightly  graying,  slightly  balding  and 
slightly  overweight  Forty-Niners. 

Saturday  was  an  active  day  with  tours 
arranged  for  the  campus,  the  art  museum 
and  the  science  museum.  Swimming 
dominated  the  informal  activities.  At  the 
reunion  luncheon  our  good  President, 
Jim  Adams  presented  our  class  gift  to  the 
school.  Our  class  gift  exceeded  $23,000.00 
and  was  the  largest  class  gift  ever  given  to 
our  Alma  Mater.  Congratualtions  must 
be  given  to  Steve  Spencer,  Walt  Charow 
and  Jim  Adams  for  the  hard  work 
expended  in  raising  this  money.  Nor 
should  we  forget  any  Forty-Niner  who 
pledged  and  gave  to  this  great  cause. 

Saturday  night  provided  a  fitting  cli- 
max with  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Hazzard  acting  as 
perfect  hosts  with  a  cocktail  party  par 
excellance  at  their  home .  After  posing  for 
a  reunion  picture  in  Higgins  House  gar- 
den a  gourmet  roast  beef  dinner  was 
served  in  the  Great  Hall. 

After  dinner  and  before  the  music  and 
dancing  lingered  on  into  the  night,  Jim 
Adams  refresed  our  memory  of  the  great 
events  of  twenty-five  years  ago,  reminisc- 
ing about  such  old  landmarks  as  the 
Boynton  and  the  Blue  Marlin. 

Since  no  reunion  would  be  complete 
without  bestowing  recognition  of  the 
accomplishments  of  class  members  a  lim- 
ited number  of  awards  were  made.  Paul 
Feeney  received  the  first  award  for 
becoming  a  father  most  often.  Dean 
Amidon  received  an  award  for  having 
children  who  made  him  a  grandfather 
most  often.  Hugh  Robinson  and  Fred 
Brennan  were  honored  for  traveling  the 
greatest  distance  having  both  come  from 
California.  Allen  Campbell  was  recog- 
nized for  driving  the  greatest  distance 
from  Melbourne,  Florida.  This  award  was 
challenged  unsuccessfully  by  Bob  Law- 
rence who  drove  his  airplane  from  Boul- 
der, Colorado.  The  final  award  went  to 
our  own  Yul  Brynner,  none  other  than 


Moe  Nirenstein,  for  having  the  cleanest 
shaven  head. 

Bob  Pritchard  and  his  wife  were  guests 
at  our  reunion  dinner.  Ken  Scott  and  Bill 
Grogan  and  their  wives  also  stopped  by  to 
extend  their  greetings  to  us.  It  should  be 
mentioned  that  Steve  Hebert  and  the  girls 
in  the  Alumni  office  did  a  great  job  of  put- 
ting together  all  the  details  that  contrib- 
uted to  a  great  reunion. 


1959  -  15th 

Twenty-two  members  of  the  class 
attended  their  15th  reunion  on  June  7 
and  8. 

Most  of  us  began  the  weekend  at  the 
Good  Old  Days  Get  Together  on  Friday 
evening  and  after  a  few  beers  together, 
wound  up  at  Worcester's  famed  El 
Morocco. 

On  Saturday  there  were  some  who 
arranged  to  take  the  campus  tour  and 
were  much  impressed  with  the  improve- 
ments made  over  the  last  few  years. 

Saturday  evening  was  started  with  a 
social  hour  at  6:p.m.  and  followed  by  a 
well  prepared  banquet  at  the  Wachusett 
Country  Club.  After  the  food  was  served, 
we  all  got  a  chance  to  summarize  our  trav- 
els and  good  fortunes  of  the  past  fifteen 
years. 

Our  good  fellowship  didn't  stop  there 
for  we  were  all  invited  to  Bob  Kelly's 
house  after  the  banquet  to  taste  some 
home-made  wine  prepared  and  served  by 
Ed  Fenny.  I'm  sure  that  Ed's  talents  have 
never  been  more  appreciated. 

Those  attending  the  weekend  festivi- 
ties were:  Mr.  6c  Mrs.  Richard  Bratt,  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  Lee  Courtemanche,  Mr.  &  Mrs. 
John  Gale,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Michael  Gasek, 
Dr.  Frederick  H.  Lutze,  Jr.,  Mr.  Norman 
Monks,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edward  Saulnier,  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  David  Sawin,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  George 
Schreiner,  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Edwin  Fenny,  Mr. 
&  Mrs.  Robert  Berg,  and  Mr.  &  Mrs.  Rob- 
ert Kelly. 

1959 


1949  -  25th 

Over  one  hundred  Forty-Niners,  wives, 
sons  and  daughters  from  near  and  far 
found  their  way  to  Boynton  Hill  on 
Friday,  June  7th  to  begin  a  reunion  that 
was  to  be  one  of  the  greatest  WPI  reun- 
ions of  all  time  At  the  "Good  Old  Days 
Get-Together"  at  Morgan  Hall  "change" 
was  the  main  topic  of  conversation.  "Tre- 
mendous" was  the  adjective  most  used  to 
describe  the  changes  that  have  taken 


26 /August  1974   WPIJoumal 


1915 


MAURICE  G.  STEELE,  who  retired  15  years 
agofromRome(N.Y.)Cable,thenformedand 
sold  his  own  successful  firm,  M.  G.  Steele, 
Inc.,  is  again  retiring.  For  five  years  he  has 
been  serving  as  a  salaried  consultant  to  his 
former  firm,  but  he  is  now  making  retirement 
more  or  less  official.  He  will,  however,  be 
available  for  further  consultation. 


"Reese,"  as  he  is  known  to  his  friends,  is 
still  on  the  go.  Currently  he  is  historian  or  the 
Rome  Rotary  Club,  of  which  he  is  a  past  presi- 
dent. An  art  enthusiast,  and  former  tenor 
soloist,  he  is  also  an  accomplished  magician 
and  has  given  a  number  of  professional 
performances. 

One  of  his  best  professional  performances 
was  his  development  of  an  electric  brazer  for 
joining  sections  of  copper  wire  by  soldering,  a 
device  he  perfected  and  patented  through 
research  at  Rome  Cable  and  later  at  M.  G. 
Steele,  Inc.  The  brazer,  which  is  still  the  lead- 
ing product  of  the  Steele  Company,  is  supe- 
rior to  other  methods  of  joining  wire  in  its 
precision  and  in  the  resulting  tensile  strength 
of  the  joint,  which  is  greater  than  that  of  the 
wire  itself. 


1923 


Dr.  PAUL  R.  SWAN,  former  associate  dean  of 
admissions  and  students  at  WPI  and  the 
retired  president  of  Leicester  (Mass.)  Junior 
College,  recently  moved  into  an  apartment  in 
WinterPark,  Fla.  He  writes  that  he  and  his  wife 
are  enjoying  life  and  the  Florida  climate. 


1926 


RUDOLPH  T.  DANSTEDT,  assistant  to  the 
president  of  the  National  Council  of  Senior 
Citizens,  Inc.,  Washington,  D.  C,  has  been 
appointed  to  the  Statutory  Social  Security 


Advisory  Council.  The  council  reportstoCon- 
gress  on  the  financing,  scope,  and  adequacy 
of  the  benefits  of  the  Social  Security  program, 
Old  Age  Insurance,  and  Medicare. 

Mr.  Danstedt  was  also  appointed  a  public 
member  of  the  key  Committee  on  Finance 
which  will  review  the  actuarial  and  tax 
aspects  of  the  Social  Security  program.  The 
committee  isa  1 3-man  statutory  body  which  is 
composed  of  a  chairman,  three  representa- 
tives of  employers,  three  representatives  of 
employees  and  six  public  members. 


1928 


FORREST  S.  NELSON  has  been  elected  a 
member  of  the  Corporation  of  the  New 
England  Baptist  Hospital  in  Boston.  Currently 
he  is  a  real  estate  consultant  to  the  First  Fed- 
eral Savings  and  Loan  Association,  Worces- 
ter, which  he  has  served  for  over  40  years  as 
senior  vice  president,  director,  and  chief 
appraiser.  He  belongs  to  the  American  Insti- 
tute of  Real  Estate  Appraisers,  the  Society  of 
Real  Estate  Appraisers,  the  Worcester  Eco- 
nomic Club  and  the  Worcester  Board  of 
Realtors.  The  New  England  Baptist  Hospital  is 
known  internationally  for  its  treatment  of 
complicated  medical  and  surgical  problems. 
LEONARD  M.OLMSTED,  formerly  a  senior 
editor  at  McGraw-Hill  Publishing,  Inc.,  New 
York  City,  retired  last  year. 


George  Rich, 
Distinguished  Engineer 

The  Engineering  Societies  of  New  England 
have  presented  George  R.  Rich,  '19  with  the 
Distinguished  New  England  Engineer  Award 
at  a  luncheon  ceremony  which  was  held  in 
Boston  to  highlight  Engineers'  Week. 


The  32nd  recipient  of  thisaward,  Mr.  Rich  is 
senior  vice  president  of  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc., 
professional  engineers  based  in  Boston.  He 
has  overall  responsibility  for  the  firm's  activi- 
ties in  the  hydroelectric,  thermal  power,  and 
electrical  transmission  and  distribution  fields. 

The  Distinguished  New  England  Engineer 
Award  is  presented  annually  to  "a  living  engi- 
neer, resident  of  New  England  who,  by  out- 
standing achievement,  merits  recognition  of 
hisaccomplished  works  as  well  as  hischarac- 
ter  by  his  fellow  engineers  of  the  New  England 
states." 

During  a  career  spanning  55  years  of  engi- 
neering and  managerial  activities,  Mr.  Rich 
has  contributed  to  the  design  and /or  con- 
struction supervision  of  such  major  projects 
as:  the  Passamaquoddy  tidal  power  project, 
the  Cornwall  pumped-storage  project,  the 
Niagara  power  project,  and  the  St.  Lawrence 
power  project.  More  recent  projects  in  which 
he  has  been  involved  include:  the  Blenheim- 
Gilboa  pumped-storage  power  project  and 
the  Bear  Swamp  pumped-storage  project. 

Mr.  Rich  is  licensed  as  a  Professional  Engi- 
neer in  33  states  and  by  the  National  Bureau  of 
Engineering  Examiners.  Before  going  to 
Main,  he  was  chief  design  engineer  for  the 
Tennessee  Valley  Authority,  in  charge  of 
engineering  forall  hydroelectric,  steam-elec- 
tric, and  other  power  work  undertaken  by 
TVA. 


In  addition  to  his  involvement  in  numerous 
international  power  projects  for  Main,  Mr. 
Rich  has  also  represented  the  United  States 
as  a  member  of  this  country's  delegations  to 
the  International  Commission  on  Irrigation 
and  Drainage,  and  the  International  Commis- 
sion on  Large  Dams. 

Mr.  Rich  has  lectured  on  hydraulic  engi- 
neering at  Columbia  University  and  served  as 
the  Gordon  McKay  Visiting  Lecturer  in  Civil 
Engineering  at  Harvard  University.  In 
publishing  activity,  he  authored  the  book, 
Hydraulic  Transients,  and  has  contributed 
technical  papers  to  numerous  professional 
journals  and  trade  magazines. 

Among  the  professional  societies,  Mr.  Rich 
is  an  Honorary  Member  of  the  American 
Society  of  Mechanical  Engineers,  and  of  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  a  Fellow  of 
the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  and 
a  member  of  the  American  Institute  of  Con- 
sulting Engineers.  His  memberships  in  honor- 
ary societies  include  Sigma  Xi,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
and  National  Honor  Member  of  Chi  Epsilon. 
He  was  also  awarded  an  Honorary  Doctorate 
of  Engineering  from  WPI  in  1948  and 
presented  with  the  Rickey  Medal  Award  from 
the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  in 
1968.  This  year  he  received  the  Robert  H. 
Goddard  award  from  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association.  Illfll 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/27 


1929 


FRANK  R.  JOSLIN,  the  former  vice  president 
of  New  England  Electric  Systems  and  Power 
Service  Co.,  Boston,  has  retired.  .  .  . 
HALBERT  E.  PIERCE,  JR.,  who  was  with 
Northeast  Utilities,  New  England  Power  Plan- 
ning, WestSpringfield,  Mass.  for  many  years, 
is  recently  retired. 


1930 


WILLIAM  W.  LOCKE,  professor  of  electrical 
engineering  at  WPI,  who  had  served  44  years 
on  the  faculty,  retired  in  June. . .  DONALD  R. 
SIMONDS,  past  vice  president  of  Beloit  (Wis.) 
Corp.,  retired  in  February.  .  .  .  RALPH  H. 
GILBERT  is  presently  employed  at  Modern 
Concrete  Pumping  Co.  in  West  Hartford, 
Conn. 


1931 


WALLACE  N.  BAILEY,  JR.  retired  in  June.  He 
was  with  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co. .Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  where  he  served  as  a  system 
operations  coordinator.  .  .  .  FRANK  S. 
FINLAYSON,  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  WPI,  also  retired  in  June.  He 
joined  the  faculty  in  1937  and  received  his 
MSME  from  WPI  in  1 945.  . .  .  GEORGE  RAK  is 
a  retiree.  He  was  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft, 
East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  C. 
SODANO,  who  has  been  serving  as  president 
of  Asian  Economic  &  Tech  Service  Co., 
Tokyo,  Japan,  is  now  chairman  of  the  board  of 
the  company  and  is  currently  located  in 
Scottsdale,  Arizona. 


1932 


WILLIAM  F.  REARDON  has  retired  from  Gen- 
eral Electric's  real  estate  and  construction 
operation  after  25  years.  This  operation  han- 
dles the  design  and  construction  of  major 
facilitiesforGE  worldwide,  with  an  annual  vol- 
ume in  excess  of  $150  million.  During  his 
career  at  GE  Mr.  Reardon  held  positions  of 
manager-construction,  manager-engineer- 
ing, and  manager-advanced  facilities 
planning. 


1933 


HUGO  P.  BORGATTI  retired  from  Uniroyal, 
New  York  City,  this  summer  .  .  .  ALBERT  H. 
ENSOR  recently  retired  from  New  England 
Electric  System  as  superintendent  of  commu- 
nications and  controls  after  39  years  of  serv- 
ice. Currently  he  is  located  in  Brewster,  Mass. 


1934 


B.  "GUS"  LARSON  retired  in  April.  He  had 
been  a  staff  assistant  at  New  England  Power 
Service  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass. 


1936 


ROGER  W.  BRUCE,  who  is  retired  as  general 
superintendent  from  United  States  Steel 
Corp.,  Worcester  plant,  is  a  candidate  for  the 
Republican  nomination  for  state  representa- 
tive in  the  20th  Worcester  District.  He  is  a 
former  member  of  the  Worcester  Planning 
Board  and  the  Central  Massachusetts 
Regional  Planning  Commission.  He  is  past 
president  of  the  Worcester  County 
Republican  Club  and  president  of  the 
Worcester  Area  Mental  Health  Association. 


1937 


ARTHUR  P.  MOOSSA  works  for  American 
Optical  Corp.,  Southbridge,  Mass.  .  . .  DANA 
W.  WOODWARD  is  now  president  of  Ameri- 
can Shoe,  Division  of  Katy  Industries, 
Wakefield,  Mass. 


1938 


THOMAS  M.  BONNAR,  assistant  vice  presi- 
dent and  director  of  administrative  services  of 
the  Eastman  Kodak  Company,  was  recently 
elected  president  of  the  Genesee  Hospital 
Board  of  Governors  in  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Presently  DONALD  L.  MILLIKEN  is  employed 
at  Bechtel  Corp.,  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  E.  O'NEIL,  western  manager-busi- 
ness development  for  Chemical  Construction 
Corp.,  New  York  City,  is  now  located  in 
Phoenix,  Ariz. . . .  MAURICE  PRESSMAN  has 
been  nominated  for  the  Commander's  Award 
for  Technological  Achievement  at  the  U.S. 
Army  Mobility  Equipment  Research  and 
Development  Center,  Fort  Belvoir,  Va.  The 
award  is  given  for  science,  leadership,  and 


support  and  is  considered  the  most  presti- 
gious the  Center  can  present.  Nominated  by 
the  Military  Technology  Department,  Mr. 
Pressman  was  cited  for  his  work  as  an  analyti- 
cal chemist  in  the  Sanitary  Sciences  Division 


leading  to  the  development  of  new  and  origi- 
nal water  treatment  processes  enabling 
kitchen,  laundry  and  shower  waste  waters  to 
be  reused  for  nonconsumptive  purposes. . . . 
FRANCIS  B.  RITZ  works  for  Pittsburgh-Des 
Moines  Steel  Co.,  San  Jose,  Calif. 


1939 


CHARLES  W.  CUMMINGS,  who  has  retired 
from  Pacific  Telephone  &  Telegraph  in  Los 
Angeles,  Calif.,  is  now  raising  show  cats.  .  . . 
DONALD  E.  HOUSER  serves  as  assistant  to 
the  president  of  Bostik  Division,  United  Shoe 
Machinery  Corp.,  Middletown,  Mass.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  J.  MULLER  works  for  Tucker 
Assoc,  East  Longmeadow,  Mass. 


1940 


LEWIS  F.  BEHRENT  is  with  Laboratory 
Equipment  Sales  &  Service  in  Renton,  Wash. 
...  Dr.  WALTER  E.  CRANDALL  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  vice  president-manager  at  Corporate 
Laboratory,  Hawthorne,  Calif.  .  .  .  H.  ROGER 
ERICKSON  is  personnel  manager  at  Worces- 
ter County  Institution  for  Savings,  Worcester. 
.  .  .  ROLFE  G.  JOHNSON,  a  self-employed 
consultant,  is  currently  with  Crawford  & 
Russell,  in  Grangemouth  Stirlingshire, 
Scotland.  .  .  .  PHILIP  LEVINE  works  as  a 
supervisor  for  the  U.S.  Postal  Service  in 
Worcester.  .  .  .  JUDSON  D.  LOWD  has  been 
named  president  of  C-E  Natco  (National  Tank 
Co.),  a  Tulsa-based  subsidiary  of  Combustion 
Engineering,  Inc.  As  chief  executive  officer 
he  will  direct  the  operations  of  the  company's 
domestic  manufacturing,  sales  and  service 
facilities  and  itsfive  international  subsidiaries 
located  in  Canada,  United  Kingdom,  Austra- 
lia, and  Singapore.  Lowd,  who  belongs  to 
ASME,  the  Institute  of  Petroleum  (London), 
and  is  a  trustee  and  member  of  the  Academic 
Board  of  Management,  Beirut  University 
College  in  Lebanon,  formerly  served  as  exec- 
utive vice  president  of  C-E  Natco.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  C.  McDONALD,  who  has  retired 
from  the  U.S.  Civil  Service,  writes  that  he  is 
"Enjoying  the  warm  Florida  weather  in  the 
brand  new  house  I  designed." 

Prof.  LAWRENCE  C.  NEALE,  director  of 
WPI's  Alden  Research  Laboratories,  has  won 
the  Worcester  Engineering  Society's  1974 
Scientific  Achievement  Award. . . .  FRANK  G. 
GUSTAFSON,  senior  product  engineer  with 
Bay  State  Abrasives  Division,  Dresser  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass.,  was  a  featured 
speaker  at  the  13th  Abrasives  Conference 
held  in  Philadelphia,  Pa.  in  June.  His  topic 
was  "High  Wheel  Speeds  in  Precision  Grind- 
ing." He  has  had  wide  experience  in  the 
grinding  wheel  industry  both  as  a  manufac- 
turing process  engineer  and  product  engi- 
neer, and  has  written  numerous  articles  on 
grinding  wheel  applications. 


28       jgust  1974   WPI  Journal 


1941 


DONALD  E.  SMITH,  president  of  Smith, 
Legge  &  Darcy,  Inc.,  Rochester,  N.Y.,  was 
recently  reelected  to  a  three-year  term  on  the 
Genesee  Hospital  Board  of  Governors.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  F.  WILSON  is  employed  by  Field, 
Eddy  &  Buckley,  Springfield,  Mass. 


1942 


JOSEPH  N.  CHRISTIAN  is  a  realty  salesman 
for  Apple  Valley  Rancheros,  Apple  Valley, 
California. 


1943 


ARNOLD  R.  JONES  has  been  promoted  to 
divisional  vice  president  and  general  man- 
ager of  the  Abrasive  Materials  Division  at 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  He  was  divisional  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  engineer- 
ing and  construction  services.  In  his  new 
position  he  will  be  responsible  for  the  world- 
wide operations  of  the  division.  A  registered 
professional  engineer,  he  is  also  a  director  of 
Worcester  Episcopal  Housing  Corp.  arid  a 
member  of  the  Governor's  Business  Advisory 
Task  Group  on  the  Energy  Crisis.  ...  J. 
FRANCIS  SULLIVAN  is  a  purchasing  agent  at 
Scott  Graphics,  Inc.,  Holyoke,  Mass. 


1944 


Currently  JAMES  W.  DASHNER  ischief  prod- 
uct engineer  for  Consolidated  Brass  Co., 
Matthews,  N.  C. . .  .  MARTIN  J.  REILLY  works 
as  a  product  engineer  at  Allis-Chalmers 
Corp.,  Jackson,  Mississippi.  .  .  .  RALPH  D. 
SCHULTHEISS  has  been  appointed  vice 
president-engineering,  Engineered  Machin- 
ery Group,  York  Division,  Borg  Warner  Corp., 
York,  Pa.  .  .  .  HERBERT  E.  SHELDON  is  with 
the  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co., 
New  York  City. 


1945 


PAUL  A.  MARSHALL,  JR.  works  at  Brockway 

Glass  Co.,  Inc.,  Brockway,  Pa ROGER  N. 

PERRY,  JR.,  WPI's  public  relations  director, 
has  been  accredited  by  the  Public  Relations 
Society  of  America.  Of  the  7,200  profes- 
sionals who  belong  to  PRSA,  only  2,459  are 
accredited.  PR  programs  directed  by  Roger 
have  won  four  national  awards  in  recent 
years KNOWLTON  P  RICE  is  a  contrac- 
tor with  Falcon  Research  &  Development, 
Denver,  Colo. 


1946 


EARL  J.  BALKON  is  a  general  manager  at 
Resurrection  Cemetery  in  Grand  Rapids, 
Mich CUSHING  C.  BOZENHARD,  presi- 
dent of  the  Bozenhard  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester, 
was  recently  elected  a  trustee  of  Memorial 
Hospital.  A  registered  professional  engineer, 
he  has  served  as  past  president  of  the 
Exchange  Club  of  Worcester  and  is  a  director 
of  the  Friends  of  Goddard  Library.  He  is  also 
on  the  advisory  board  of  the  YWCA.  . 
CHARLES  D.  CUMMINGS  works  for  Atlas 
International,  Inc.,  Littleton,  Colo.  .  .  .  WIL- 
LIAM R.  GROGAN,  dean  of  undergraduate 
studies  at  WPI,  participated  in  dedication  cer- 
emonies marking  the  opening  of  the  new 
international  headquarters  of  Phi  Kappa 
Theta  Fraternity  in  Worcester  last  May.  Dean 
Grogan  is  a  past  national  president  of  the  fra- 
ternity. . . . 

GORDON  A.  HOLLIS  works  for  Mobile  Pipe 
LineCo.,  Mobil  Oil  Corp.,  EastDouglas,  Mass. 
. . .  HAZEN  L.  HOYT  III  is  with  Duplicon,  New- 
port Beach,  Calif.  . . .  VINCENT  M.  LaSORSA 
serves  as  assistant  marketing  manager  at 
Dynell  ElectronicsCorp.,  Melville,  L.I.,  N.Y. . . . 
CARLTON  G.  LUTTS  is  product  manager, 
USM  Corp.,  Beverly,  Mass.  .  .  .  FRANK  L. 
MAZZONE  presently  holds  the  position  of 
manager  of  engineering  at  Bechtel,  Inc.,  San 
Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  .  Col.  IRVING  T. 
McDONALD,  JR.,  USAF  retired,  is  now 
residing  in  Deland,  Florida.  Formerly  he  was 
assistant  chief  of  staff/intelligence  at  USAF 
HQ,  Pentagon,  Washington,  D.C. 

CHARLES  B.  MICZEK,  former  assistant 
engineering  manager  at  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering  Corp.,  Boston,  has  been  named 
vice  president  of  the  corporation.  Associated 
with  the  firm  since  1946,  he  has  also  been 
appointed  engineering  manager.  ...  Dr. 
PETER  B.  MYERS  is  director,  advanced  sys- 
tems analysis  office,  at  Magnavox,  Silver 
Spring,  Md.  .  .  .  EDWARD  R.  STOKEL  has 
been  promoted  to  a  new  high-level  staff  posi- 
tion, director  of  public  transportation  at  GMC 
Truck  and  Coach  Division  of  General  Motors, 
Pontiac,  Michigan.  Formerly  he  was  assistant 
general  sales  manager  in  charge  of  coaches. 
In  his  new  position  he  will  be  responsible  for 
coordinating  GMC  truck  and  coach  activities 
related  to  public  transportation  with  engi- 
neering, manufacturing,  product  planning 
and  sales  operations.  .  .  .  MALCOLM  K. 
WHITE  is  employed  by  Dutchess  Shoe, 
Salem,  Mass. 


1947 


PAULH.  MUGFORD  is  aforeman  at  A.  C.  Law- 
rence Leather  Company,  Peabody,  Mass. 


1948 


FRANK  S.  HOLBY  serves  as  supervisor-con- 
pensation  at  GAF  Corp.,  in  Birmingham,  N.Y. 
Previously  he  was  with  General  Electric.  .  .  . 
STURGIS  A.  SOBIN,  the  former  mayor  of 
Ansonia,  Conn.,  was  recently  appointed 
executive  director  of  the  Connecticut  Racing 


Division.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the  plan- 
ning and  supervision  for  flat  and  harness 
horseracing,  dog  racing,  andjai-alai. 


1949 


RUSSELL  P.  BR  ADLAW  is  a  project  engineer 
at  Turner  Construction  Co.,  New  YorkCity. . . . 
NORMAN  E.  COTNOIR,  whowaswith  Fellows 
Corp.  (Springfield,  Vt.)  for  20  years,  is  now 
with  Brown  &  Sharpe  Mfg.  Co.,  North  King- 
stown, R.I. . . .  NEAL  W.  COX  works  as  a  plant 
engineer  at  the  Connecticut  Foundry  Co., 
Rocky  Hill,  Conn. . .  .  GEORGE  M.  DEWIRE  is 
product  marketing  manager  at  Martin-Mar- 
ietta Corp.,  Orlando,  Fla.  .  .  .  ROBERT  N. 
GOWING  holds  the  post  of  directorof  market- 
ing at  New  England  Electric  System,  West- 
boro,  Mass. 

BERNARD  J.  KAWECKI  is  marketing  sales 
manager  at  Bulova  Watch  Co.  (Systems  and 
Instruments  Div.,)  Valley  Stream,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  LEHTO  serves  as  a  systems  analyst 
at  Vitro  Labs  Div. /Automation   Industries, 

Silver  Spring,  Md EDWARD  A.  LUIZ  is  a 

mechanical  design  engineer  at  Killmorgen 
Corp.,  Northampton,  Mass.  .  .  .  WALTER  J. 
MUSSONI  is  with  Feecon  Corp.,  Westboro, 
Mass.  . . .  DONALD  R.  SKEFFINGTON  works 
as  a  self-employed  consulting  engineer  in 
Ipswich,  Mass.  .  .  .  Presently  JOHN  A. 
SNYDER  is  employed  as  a  market  manager  at 
Union  Carbide  Corp.,  Bound  Brook,  N.J.  .  .  . 
CLAUDE  F.  VERAA  is  with  Watkins-Johnson 
Company,  Gaithersburg,  Md.  .  .  .  BERNARD 
C.  WALSH  works  as  a  principal  engineer  at 
Polaroid  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 


1950 


The  work  of  JOHN  P.  BURGARELLA  was 
used  as  a  reference  for  the  article,  "Behind 
the  Lens  of  the  SX-70"  which  appeared  in  the 
December  1973  issue  of  "IEEE  Spectrum". 
He  is  the  director  of  engineering  for  electronic 
products  at  the  Polaroid  Corporation  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  . .  .  JAMES  N.  DuCHARME  has 
been  named  chief  engineer  at  Rutland  (Vt.) 
Hospital.  Previously  he  had  spent  23  years 
with  the  General  Electric  Company,  most 
recently  serving  in  the  Ordnance  Dept.  at  GE 
in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 


1951 


PAUL  E.  RADASCH  serves  as  branch  office 
manager  at  Nelson,  Haley,  Patterson  & 
Quirk,  Inc.,  Greeley,  Colo.  .  .  .  VARTKES 
SOHIGIANispersonnelmanagerforSimonds 
Cutting    Tools,    Wallace-Murray    Corp., 

Fitchburg,  Mass JOHN  D.  WRITER  holds 

the  position  of  sales  manager-N.E.  region,  at 
Aydin  Controls,  Ft.  Washington,  Pa. 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/29 


1952 


1954 


JOHN  W.DIACHENKOisthe  chief  engineer  at 
Imperial  Spring  Co.,  Inc.,  Milldale,  Conn.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  L.  FAVREAU  was  recently  installed 
as  the  11th  president  of  the  Manufacturers 
Association  of  Schuylkill  County,  Pa.  He  is 
manufacturing  manager  of  the  Pottsville  plant 
of  Exxon  Chemical  Company,  U.S.A.  The 
manufacturing  plant,  Exxon's  largest,  pro- 
duces polyethylene,  polypropylene  and  lami- 
nated films. . . .  RICHARD  C.  GILLETTE  is  vice 
president  of  the  TelecheckWashington-Tele- 
check  Management  in  Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  . 
WAYNE  ROBERTSON  is  not  only  a  senior 
specialist  at  Monsanto  (Springfield,  Mass.), 
he  is  also  a  "specialist"  in  music  behind  the 
footlights.  To  date  he  has  sung  in  a  number 
of  amateur  musical  theater  productions  in 
the  Springfield  area  including  "Ruddigore," 
"The  Mikado,"  and  "The  Merry  Widow."  He 
also  appears  with  a  Simsbury  (Conn.)  group 
called  the  West  Bank  Pops  Singers.  While  at 
WPI  he  was  a  member  of  the  men's  octet. 


1953 


JOHN  R.  BLACK  is  manager  of  engineering  at 

W.  P.  Keith  Co.,  Inc.,  in  Pico  Rivera,  Calif 

Currently  CARLETON  C.  COMINS  holds  the 
position  of  product  safety  consultant  at  the 
Foxboro(Mass.)Co. . . .  PHILIPA.  CHARRON 
serves  as  plant  manager  at  Rochester  Button 
Co.,  Duplan  Corp.,  Wellsville,  N.Y ROB- 
ERT B.  CRAIG  is  a  programmer  at  Raytheon 
Co.,  Norwood,  Mass.  .  .  .  GEORGE  H. 
CROZIER,  JR.  works  as  director-project 
management,  Monsanto  Environmental 
Chemical  Corp.,  Chicago.  .  .  .  R.  TAYLOR 
HOLMES,  JR.  is  with  Bay  State  Abrasives, 
Westboro,  Mass. 

ROBERT  C.  JACINO  is  currently  assistant 
to  the  vice  president  at  Charles  Pfizer,  Inc., 
NewYorkCity.  ...PHILIPJ.KAMINSKY  works 
forG.  S.  Grumman  &  Associates,  Inc.,  Boston. 
...  MARSHALL  J.  KIDDER  is  a  resident  chem- 
ist at  Philips  Labs,  Briarcliff  Manor,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
DONALDG.  POST  is  now  marketing  manager 
at  Foster  Grant  Co.,  Inc.,  Leominster,  Mass. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  V.  RASZKA  works  for  Colony, 
Inc. .Quincy,  Mass....  ARTHUR  M.SHEPARD 
serves  as  manager  of  projects  at  Yankee 
Atomic  Electric  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  R  SMITH  is  with  C.  R.  Smith 
Agency,  Manchester,  Conn.  . .  .  HERBERT  S. 
PETERSON  is  now  with  Dana  Corp.,  Toledo, 
Ohio. 


DAVID  K.  BEACH,  JR.  is  president  of  Beach 
Engineering,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C. 
PICKFORD  is  manager/systems  and  proce- 
dures at  Warner-Lambert  Co.,  Morris  Plains, 
N.  J.  .  .  .  MILTON  MECKLER,  president  of 
Meckler  Associates,  Los  Angeles,  Calif., 
delivered  a  technical  paper,  "Peltier  Effect 
Heat  Pump  System"  at  the  94th  Annual 
ASME  Winter  Meeting  in  Detroit.  His  firm  is 
currently  working  on  the  system's  devel- 
opment as  a  viable  alternative  to  meeting 
long  range  industrial  energy  needs.  He 
writes  that  his  company  is  also  working  on 
the  development  of  a  fully  earthquake  resis- 
tant tubular  structural  system.  In  April  he  had 
a  paper  describing  the  fluid  logic  published 
in  Hydraulics  &  Pneumatics  and  even  more 
recently  he  spoke  before  the  Third  World 
Congress  of  Engineers  &  Architects  in  Tel 
Aviv.  Meckler,  a  registered  mechanical  and 
chemical  engineer  in  California,  Michigan, 
Ohio,  Hawaii,  Guam  and  Nevada,  holds  sev- 
eral patents  and  has  written  many  technical 
articles  and  papers. 


1955 


MARTIN  J.  BURDEN  is  currently  employed  at 
Schlegel  Mfg.  Co.,  Rochester,  N.Y. . . .  KIRBY 
S.DUCAYET  III  serves  as  administrative  man- 
ager for  Kimberly-Clark  Corp.,  Schweitzer 
Division,  Lee,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C. 
SMOLINSKI  works  at  Zurich  Insurance  Co., 
Detroit,  Mich.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  STEMPEL  is 
special  assistant  to  the  president  at  General 
Motors  Corp.,  Detroit.  .  .  .  ROBERT  K. 
NEUNHERZ  has  been  named  production 
manager  of  the  Fiberloc  Division  of  the  Felters 
Company  in  Millbury,  Mass.  Previously  he 
was  vice  president  of  manufacturing  at  GEM 
Industries,  Gardner,  Mass. 


1956 


ERNEST  BERNSTEIN  serves  as  assistant 
chief  engineer  for  Turbo  Power  and  Marine, 
Farmington,  Conn. . . .  HOWARD  H.  BROWN, 
who  has  been  studying  at  Boston  University, 
received  his  doctorate  in  educational  admin- 
istration in  May.  Last  September  he  joined  the 
faculty  at  Southeastern  Massachusetts  Uni- 
versity in  the  Department  of  Business  Admin- 
istration. . . .  HENRY  J.  DUMAS,  JR.  isworking 
at  Honeywell,  Inc.,  Lexington,  Mass.  ...  Dr. 
RAYMOND  R.  HAGGLUND,  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  WPI,  has  been 
selected  the  outstanding  teacher  of  the  year 
at  Tech,  the  announcement  being  made  at  the 
annual  faculty  banquet  held  at  Morgan  Hall  in 
May.  Dr.  Hagglund  received  his  master's 
degree  from  WPI  in  1 959  and  earned  his  doc- 
torate at  the  University  of  Illinois  in  1962.  He 
joined  the  WPI  faculty  in  1 956  and  was  one  of 
the  prime  movers  in  developing  student 
project  activity  under  the  WPI  plan. 


ARNOLD  M.  HALL  is  vice  president,  engi- 
neering at  Hovermarine  Corp.,  Pawcatuck, 
Conn.  He  helped  to  found  the  firm  five  years 
ago.  The  company  is  the  only  commercial 

builder  of  "sidewall"  hovercraft THOMAS 

W.  HANSEN  works  at  IBM  Corp.,  Boulder, 
Colo ROBERT  E.  KLEID  owns  and  oper- 
ates Robert  E.  Kleid  Nautical  Instruments, 

Fairfield,  Conn FREDERICK  J.  LINDSEY 

is  a  manufacturing  engineer  at  Dow  Corning 
Corp.,  Trumbull,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  R. 
MacH  ARG  is  with  Sperry  Systems,  Division  of 
Sperry  Rand,  Great  Neck,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOSEPH 
MORGAN,  JR.  serves  as  a  dynamics  engineer 
at  Raytheon  Co.,  Burlington,  Mass. .  . .  ROB- 
ERT V.  VIERAITIS  is  a  design  supervisor  at 
Perkin-ElmerCorp.,  Norwalk,  Conn. 


1957 


JOHN  D.  DALY  is  employed  by  the  Columbia 
Gas  System,  Inc.  in  Charleston,  W.  Va.  .  .  . 
GERALD  FINKLE  holds  the  post  of  president 
of  Wachusett  Molding  Corp.,  West  Boylston, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  W.  FRANKLIN  is  a  com- 
mander with  NOAA  and  is  presently  stationed 

in  Miami,  Florida DANIEL  J.  FISHER,  JR. 

has  been  promoted  to  project  manager  in  the 
Fibers  and  Film  Product  Group  at  Leesona 
Corp.,  Warwick,  R.  I.  Formerly  he  was  with 

General  Dynamics'  Electric  Boat  Division 

CHARLES  I.  FRIEDMAN  worksat  Prime  Com- 
puter, Inc.  in  Wellesley,  Mass. 

JOHND.  MINOTT  is  an  environmental  engi- 
neer at  Ashland  Chemical  Co.,  Columbus, 
Ohio.  .  .  .  ALAN  H.  MITCHELL  is  with  Turbo 
Power  &  Marine  Systems,  Farmington,  Conn. 
.  .  .  WAYNE  E.  PENDLETON  has  been 
employed  at  Global  Marine  Development  Co., 
El  Segundo,  Calif. . . .  ARAM  H.  SOHIGIAN  has 
been  named  a  senior  project  engineer  in  the 
research  and  engineering  department  of  Bay 
State  Abrasives,  division  of  Dresser  Indus- 
tries, Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass. 


1958 


WILLIAM  L.  BYARS,  III  works  for  Signetics, 
Orem,  Utah.  .  .  .  JERRY  A.  COLLAMORE  is 
with  Forest  Industre  (Tele-Comm.,  Inc.), 
Eugene,  Oregon.  .  .  .  Digital  Market  Assoc, 
Sudbury,  Mass.  employs  MICHAEL  S. 
GUTMAN. .  . .  DAVID  A.  HELMAN  serves  as  a 
financial  analyst  at  Tecna,  Emeryville,  Calif. .. 
.  CARL  R.  JOHNSON  works  as  a  senior 
instrument  engineer  at  Fluor  Engineering  and 
Construction,  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  ROBERT 
M.  KANEN  is  with  Robert  Wager  Co.,  Chat- 
ham, N.J. 

JOHN  H.  PORTER  works  at  American  Can 
Co.,  Greenwich,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOAQUIM  S.  S. 
RIBEIRO,  vice  president  and  treasurer  of  the 
Jamesbury  Corporation,  Worcester,  has 
been  elected  a  trustee  of  Memorial  Hospital. 
He  also  serves  as  a  trustee  for  the  Central  New 
England  Colleges  of  Technology,  corporator 
of  the  Worcester  County  Institution  for  Sav- 
ings, and  director  and  treasurer  of  the  Visiting 
Nurse  Association.  .  .  .  ROBERT  C.  SIM- 
MONDS,  JR.  is  head  of  the  design  section  at 
United  Shoe  Machinery  Corp.,  Machinery 
Division,  Beverly,  Mass. . .  .  JOHN  B.  VESEY  is 
with  Excel  Industries,  Inc.,  Lakewood,  N.J. 


30/  August  1974   WPI  Journal 


1959 


1961 


1962 


The  Rev.  HARVEY  D.  EGAN,  S.J.,  who 
received  his  PhD  from  Munster,  Germany  last 
year,  is  now  an  assistant  professor  at  Santa 
Clara  University  in  California.  . .  .  ANTHONY 
E.  ENGSTROM  is  a  real  estate  salesman  for 
Home  &  Land  Co.,  San  Rafael,  Calif WIL- 
LIAM N.  FELENCHAK  serves  as  a  designer 
with  United  Aircraft  Research  Labs.,  East 
Hartford,  Conn. . . .  THOMAS  R.  KEEFE  works 
for  Dennison  Mfg.  Co.,  Framingham,  Mass. . . . 
ROBERT  W.  KELLEY  is  now  manufacturing 
engineer  and  production  supervisor  at  the 
Berlyn  Corp.,  Millbury,  Mass.,  which  isa  man- 
ufacturer of  machinery  for  the  plastics  indus- 
try. Previously  he  was  a  consultant  and  had 
spent  some  time  at  Colt  Firearms  developing 
the  manufacturing  process  for  two  new 
stainless  steel  handguns.  .  .  .  MARSHALL  P. 
KRUPNICK  currently  practices  law  in 
Hallandale,  Florida. 

Dr.  ALLEN  H.  LEVESQUE  was  recently 
promoted  to  unit  manager  at  Sylvania  Elec- 
tronic Systems,  Needham,  Mass.  Prior  to  his 
promotion  he  was  manager,  special  commu- 
nications projects,  GTE  Labs,  in  Waltham.  He 
is  completing  his  term  as  chairman,  Boston 
Chapter  IEEE  Information  Theory  Group; 
serves  as  a  member,  Educational  Advisory 
Committee  for  the  Chelmsford  (Mass.) 
Schools;  and  represents  Chelmsford  on 
Nashoba  Valley  Technical  High  School  build- 
ing committee. ...  Dr.  FRANKLIN  SALEK  is  at 

the  Newark  (N.J.)  College  of  Engineering 

RICHARD  P.  SCHOU  works  as  a  project  engi- 
neer with  Aberthaw  Construction  Co.,  South 
San  Francisco,  Calif. . . .  LEE  D.  SMITH,  JR.  is 
now  a  senior  supervisor/process  for  Du  Pont 
in  Old  Hickory,  Tenn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  F. 
STRACHAN  serves  as  assistant  vice  presi- 
dent at  Commerce  and  Industry  Insurance 
Company,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  ERNEST  F. 
WOODTLI  is  principal  product  engineer  at 
Honeywell,  Inc.,  Ft.  Washington,  Pa. 


1960 


GARY  AUGERI  now  serves  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer in  the  Guidance  and  Control  Division  at 
Litton  Industries,  Woodland  Hills,  Calif. ...  Dr. 
DOUGLAS  E.  BRYANT  holds  the  position  of 
sales  manager  at  Foseco,  Inc.,  Cleveland, 
Ohio. . . .  EDWARD  P.  DONOGHUE  is  Boston 
area  sales  manager  for  Data  1 00  Corporation, 
a  manufacturer  and  distributor  of  remote 
computer  terminals.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  FIRLA, 
JR.  writes  that  he  is  "Back  from  an  enjoyable 
year  in  England."  He  is  still  with  IBM  in 
Boston. ... 

Lambda  Electronics  of  Melville,  L.I.,  N.Y., 
employs  THOMAS  A.  POOLE  as  a  chief  engi- 
neer. . . .  BRUCE  A.  MacPHETRES  now  works 
at  American  Telephone  &  Telegraph,  New 
York  City. . . .  ALAN  T.  REED  has  been  named 
district  superintendent  for  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co.,  Haverhill,  Mass.  He  joined  the 
company's  Worcester  office  in  1 960  and  has 
held  positions  at  the  Brayton  Point  Station  in 
Somersetand  in  Leominster.  Most  recently  he 
was  assistant  district  superintendent  in  Bev- 
erly. .  .  .  WARREN  J.  E.  TALBOT  works  for 
Varion  Associates,  Palo  Alto,  California. 


Dr.  NORMAN  F.  BOLYEA  is  associate  profes- 
sor in  the  Department  of  Civil  Engineering  at 
the  University  of  Nebraska  in  Omaha.  .  .  . 
STEPHEN  B.  BRODY  is  production  manager 

atFlambeau  Southeast  Corp.,  Monroe,  Ga 

DAVID  M.  CHESMEL  serves  as  product  man- 
ager at  West  Chemical  Products,  Inc.,  Long 
IslandCity,  N.Y. ...  Dr.  HAROLD  A.  CHRISTO- 
PHER currently  works  as  manager  —  battery 
development  group  at  Esso  Research  &  Engi- 
neering Co.,  Linden,  N.J.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F. 
DOWLING  is  a  manager  of  advanced  design 
atBabcock&  Wilcox,  Lynchburg,  Va PRE- 
STON W.  HALL,  SIM,  has  been  named  presi- 
dent of  the  Knife  Division  of  Rexnord,  Inc.,  in 
Maynard,  Mass.  He  joined  the  company  in 
1973  and  had  been  manager  of  the  Knife 
Division.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all  the 
activities  of  the  division  which  manufactures 
agricultural  knives  and  rotary  lawn  mower 

blades HENRY  J.  KOSIBA,  JR.  works  at 

Fenwal,  Inc.,  Ashland,  Mass. 

DAVID  Q.  OLSON  is  a  systems  analyst  at 
Computer  Congeries  of  Texas  in  Dallas.  .  .  . 
Currently  DAVID  M.  RAAB  is  with  Draper  Lab., 
San  Diego,  Calif. . . .  DONALD  C.  ROOT  writes 
that  he  recently  joined  the  Terry  Steam 
Turbine  Co.,  Windsor,  Conn.,  as  a  senior 
engineer-gear  products.  The  Roots,  who 
reside  in  Windsor,  are  the  parents  of  two 

daughters Presently  DAVID  L.  ST.  ONGE 

works  for  United  Nuclear  Corp.,  Montville, 

Conn Dr.  ROBERT  E.  SEAMON,  organist 

at  Trinity-on-the-Hill  Episcopal  Church,  Los 
Alamos,  N.M.,  presented  an  organ  recital  at 
Wesley  Methodist  Church  in  Worcester  in 
May.  Dr.  Seamon  is  a  staff  member  of  the  Los 
Alamos  Scientific  Laboratory  of  the  Univer- 
sity of  California  in  New  Mexico.  .  .  .  FRED- 
ERIC A.  STEVENS  is  vice  president  of 
Vantage  Computer  Systems,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  STEWART,  SIM,  teaches  at 
Uxbridge  (Mass.)  School.  .  .  .  PAUL  S. 
SLEDZIK,  former  president  of  the  Berkshire 
Chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  is  now 
located  in  Waukesha,  Wisconsin,  where  he  is 
manager  of  Waukesha  Operations  in  the 
Medical  Systems  Division  at  General  Electric 
Co.  .  .  .  THOMAS  P.  LOPRESTI,  a  systems 
engineer  for  the  Data  Processing  Division  at 
IBM,  is  currently  located  in  Omaha,  Nebraska. 


Sledzik,  '61 


Krein,  '62 


Dr.  KENNETH  J.  ANUSAVICE  currently 
serves  as  an  assistant  professor  in  the  Dental 
Materials  Section,  Department  of  Restorative 
Dentistry  at  the  School  of  Dentistry  at  the 
Medical  College  of  Georgia  in  Augusta.  He  is 
also  pursuing  a  course  of  study  leading  to  a 
DMD  degree.  .  .  .  ROBERT  J.  BAGDIS  has 
been  appointed  as  a  member  of  the  Millbury 
(Mass.)  Finance  Committee.  Presently  he  is  a 

senior  engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester 

WILLIAM  C.  BORLA  is  employed  by  the  Dept. 
of  Transportation,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  M. 
PHILIP  DeCAPRIO  has  been  appointed  to  the 
position  of  senior  engineer  at  Northeast  Utili- 
ties in  Berlin,  Conn.  He  became  a  cadet  engi- 
neer at  Connecticut  Light  and  Power  Co.  in 
1965.  After  serving  as  an  assistant  distribu- 
tion engineer,  he  was  named  a  division  plan- 
ning engineer  in  19  70  and  in  that  capacity  was 
on  loan  to  Northeast  Utilities  in  1 973. . . .  PAUL 
R.  CULTRERA  is  assistant  to  the  director  of 
industrial  security  (corporation  fire  marshall) 
at  United  Aircraft  Corp. .East  Hartford,  Conn. 

ARTHUR  E.  DOBRESKI  is asenior  facilities 
engineer  at  Gillette  Co.,  Andover,  Mass.  .  .  . 
STUART  C.  GILLOW,  who  is  presently 
located  in  Mundelein,  Illinois,  worksfor  IBM. . 
. .  WILLIAM  A.  KREIN  has  been  named  man- 
ager, financial  section,  for  General  Electric's 
installation  and  service  engineering  depart- 
ment in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  After  receiving  his 
MBA  from  Babson  Institute  in  1964,  he  joined 
G.E.'s  advanced  manufacturing  training  pro- 
gram. From  1968  to  1972  he  held  domestic 
and  foreign  audit  assignments  with  the  Cor- 
porate Audit  Staff.  His  most  recent  position 
was  that  of  manager,  financial  operations 
analysis,  group  finance  operation  for  the 
Power  Generation  Business  Group  in 
Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  P. 
LaJEUNESSE  has  been  appointed  product 
manager  for  the  time-series  analysis  systems 
at  Time-Data  Corp.,  Palo  Alto,  Calif.  Since 
1962  he  has  held  marketing  and  engineering 
positions  with  General  Radio  Co.,  of  which 
Time-Data  is  a  subsidiary.  Earlier  he  was 
assistant  product  marketing  manager  at  Gen- 
eral Radio  headquarters. 

Presently  KENNETH  J.  LaLIBERTE  is  a 
coordinator/  microfilm-micrographics  at 
Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  D.  LeBLANC  has  been  appointed 
assistant  plant  superintendent  at  Maine  Yan- 
kee Atomic  Power  Company,  Wiscasset,  Me. 
He  joined  the  company  in  1 966  as  a  technical 
assistant  in  the  Reactor  Engineering  Dept.  in 
Rowe,  Mass.  In  1967  he  earned  his  reactor 
operator  license.  In  1969  he  became  acting 
reactor  engineer  and  was  assigned  to  the 
Maine  Yankee  project.  He  was  appointed 
reactor  and  computer  supervisor  at  the 
Wiscasset  plant  in  1970  and  directed  Maine 
Yankee's  initial  startup  test  program.  LeBlanc 
earned  his  senior  reactor  operator's  license 
in  1972  and  was  appointed  assistant  to  the 
plant  superintendent  in  1973. 

DONALD  R.  MARCY  is  with  Johnson  & 
Higgins,  New  York  City.  .  .  .  JOHN  V. 
MEREGIAN  serves  as  an  administrator  at 
Kendall  Co.,  Walpole,  Mass.  .  . .  WALTER  D. 
WADMAN  has  been  named  district  superin- 
tendent of  operations  for  the  Connecticut 
Lightand  Power  Co.,  Bristol,  Conn.  He  joined 
CL&P  in  1963  at  Norwalk  Harbor.  In  1964  he 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/31 


becameajuniorengineeratDanielsonandan 
assistant  engineer  in  1967.  Later  he  was 
named  area  operating  engineer  and  area 
operating  supervisor. . .  .STEVEN  W.  ZIEMBA 
was  recently  named  principal  of  John  F.  Ken- 
nedy Junior  High  School  in  Springfield,  Mass. 
He  was  assistant  principal  and  had  been  act- 
ing principal  since  December.  A  doctoral 
candidate  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts, 
he  formerly  taught  physics  and  chemistry  at 
Technical  High  School  and  Roger  L.  Putnam 
Vocational  Technical  High  School.  Prior  to 
his  teaching  career,  he  had  been  an  industrial 
chemist  with  the  U.S.  Rubber  Co. 


1963 


WILFRED  E.  BROWN,  III  is  with  the  U.S.  Dept. 
of  Transportation  T.S.C.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
.  . .  LAWRENCE  N.  ESCOTT  serves  as  a  sys- 
tems analyst  at  Blue  Cross/Blue  Shield,  New 
York  City.  .  .  .  WILLARD  W.  GOODWIN,  JR. 
has  been  promoted  to  engineering  manager- 
precision  products  at  the  Fafnir  Bearing  Co. 
(Divison  of  Textron)  in  New  Britain,  Conn. 
Since  1 964  he  has  worked  in  application  engi- 
neering with  extensive  experience  in  the  cus- 
tom precision  field.  He  is  president  of  the 
Avon  Secret  Lake  Association  and  is  a 
member  of  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers. 

JAMES  M.  KELLY,  JR.  district  sales  man- 
ager, pollution  control  division  at 
Carborundum  Environmental  Systems,  Inc., 
is  located  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  L 
KUBICK  is  working  in  Sonar  Research  at 
Dynell  Electronics  Corp.,  Melville,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
JOSEPH  MANCUSO,  of  the  management 
engineering  department  at  WPI,  has  been 
named  to  the  board  of  directors  of  Laser,  Inc., 
Sturbridge,  Mass.  He  isalsothe  presidentand 
founder  of  Applied  Marketing,  Inc.,  a  manage- 
ment consulting  firm.  Currently  he  sits  on  the 
board  of  nine  small  businesses.  ...  Dr.  and 
Mrs.  R.  MICHAEL  MALBON  and  their 
daughter  Beth  recently  returned  to  the  U.S. 
after  spending  two  years  as  private  citizens  in 
Chile  with  the  Peace  Corps.  Dr.  Malbon  was 
granted  a  full  professorship  and  taught  in  the 
Electronic  Division  at  the  University  of 
Valparaiso  and  the  Naval  School  of  Santiago. 
Mrs.  Malbon  taught  English  to  Chilean  stu- 
dents at  the  same  university.  Dr.  Malbon  has 
now  returned  to  his  position  in  the  Allied  Solid 


States  Division  of  the  Howard  Hughes 
Research  Laboratories  in  Newport  Beach, 
Calif. 

KENNETH  OLSEN  is  a  patent  attorney  at 
Schlumberger  Limited,  Ridgefield,  Conn. .  . . 
At  present  WARREN  R.  STANDLEY  is  on 
leave  of  absence  as  a  senior  engineer  at  Pratt 
&  Whitney  Aircraft,  South  Windsor,  Conn,  and 
is  completing  research  for  a  PhD  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut.  ...  In  April  CARL 
STOUTENBERG  received  an  honorable 
mention  award  for  his  entry  in  the  1 973  Mate- 
rials Utilization  Contest  sponsored  by  Pro- 
duction, the  magazine  of  manufacturing.  His 
entry  was  slated  to  be  published  in  the  July 
1 974  issue.  A  former  research  engineer  at  the 
Stanley  Works,  New  Britain,  Conn.,  he  was 
recently  promoted  to  product  line  engineer- 
ing manager  of  the  New  Britain  Product  Line 
Group.  .  .  .  CONRAD  P.  SUPSKI  works  for 
Herbert  Engineering,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
GERALD  D.  WAXMAN  teaches  at  Santa  Mon- 
ica (Calif.)  City  College.  .  .  .  PAUL  E. 
CAHALEN  serves  as  district  manager  for 
Strong  Scott  Mfg.  Co.  He  is  located  in 
Lakewood,  N.J. 


1964 


Married:  CARL  YOUNGMAN  and  Miss  Joan 
S.  Blackman  in  Providence,  Rhode  Island  on 
May  1 9,  1 974.  Mrs.  Youngman,  a  graduate  of 
Wheelock  College,  teaches  in  Quincy,  Mass. 
The  groom  is  a  partner  in  the  management 
consulting  firm  of  Youngman,  Charm  and 
Associates,  Brookline. 

J.  MICHAEL  ANDERSON  is  currently  vice 
president,  MBA  Communications,  Inc.,  New 
York  City.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  B.  BRINKMANN  is  a 
senior  metallurgical  engineer  for  G.E.- 
Advanced  Technology  Operation,  Bridge- 
port, Conn.  .  .  .  PAUL  A.  COVEC  works  at 
Teradyne,  Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  . .  RICHARD  A. 
DOWNE  is  reliability  engineer  at  Fairchild 
Semiconductor,  South  Portland,  Me. 

WALTER  J.  GONIA,  SIM,  holds  the  post  of 
regional  sales  manager  in  the  Johnson 
Division  of  Universal  Oil  Products  Co.,  St. 
Paul,  Minn.  .  .  .  Presently  WILLIAM  S. 
INGALLS,  JR.  is  marketing  supervisor  for 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  in  New 
York  City.  He  had  been  with  New  England 
Telephone.  .  .  .  CARLETON  F.  KILMER,  JR. 
serves  as  manager,  administrative  services 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01B05 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


division,  Arthur  Andersen  &  Co.,  Boston.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  KLANDER  is  with  UCAC 
(Unemployment  Compensation  Advisory 
Corp.),  Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  .  RONALD  E. 
LUBOWICZ  works  for  Distrigas  Corp., 
Boston,  Mass. ...  Dr.  BRUCE  MACCABEE  is  a 
research  physicist  in  the  Naval  Ordnance 
Lab.,  Silver  Spring,  Md. 

BRUCEA.OCHIEANOiswith  William  Blair, 
Inc.,  Los  Altos,  Calif.  ...  Dr.  ALFRED  R. 
POTVIN  holds  the  position  of  director  and 
associate  professor  of  bio-medical  engineer- 
ing at  the  University  of  Texas  at  Arlington 

JOHN  C.  RYDER  is  now  vice  presidentat  Fab- 
ricated Machine,  Massilon,  Ohio.  The  com- 
pany designs  and  manufactures  test 
equipment  for  the  tire  industry. . . .  EDWARD 
N.SANTOS  works  as  a  district  sales  engineer 
for  General  Electric  in  Detroit,  Mich MAU- 
RICE R.  SILVESTRIS,  who  is  with  New  Jersey 
Zinc  Co.,  Palmerton,  Pa.,  received  his  MBA 
from  Lehigh  University  in  December.  .  .  . 
EUGENE  N.  SPRAGUE  works  at  W.  N. 
Sprague,  Inc.,  Leicester,  Mass.  .  .  .  MARIO 
TAMA  is  self-employed  with  Contemporary 
Builders,  Woodstock,  Vt.  .  .  .  PAUL  A. 
LILIENTHAL  is  owner  and  president  of  Aqua 
Wells,  Inc.,  Thetford  Center,  Vt Dr.  ROB- 
ERTA. PEURA,  assistant  professorof  electri- 
cal engineering  and  life  sciences  at  WPI,  has 
been  named  as  an  outstanding  young  leader 
of  Worcester  County  for  1 974  by  the  Greater 
Worcester  Jaycees. 


1965 


PETER  F.  BEHMKE  is  a  project  engineer  with 
FramCorp.,  East  Providence,  R.I. . .  .ROBERT 
H.  CAHILL  serves  as  a  product  manager  at 
Hilti  Fastening  Systems,  Stamford,  Conn. . . . 
ROBERT  K.  DAWLESS  works  for  ALCOA  in 
New  Kensington,  Pa.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  S. 
DEMBSKI  is  marketing  manager  at  Brockway 

Glass  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York  City RONALD 

GREENE  has  been  employed  at  Data  General 
Corp.,  Southboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  S. 
HAGAR  is  a  process  engineer  at  General 
Cable  Corp.,  Pownal,  Vt. 

ROBERT  L  JOHNSON  works  for  IMLAC 
Corp.,  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  .  ROBERT  D. 

KLAUBER  is  studying  in  Belgium Systems 

Research  Laboratory,  Dayton,  Ohio,  employs 
PETER  E.  OBERBECK.  .  .  .  THOMAS  E. 
PEASE  is  with  Quirk,  Lawlor  &  Matusky, 
Tappan,  N.Y. . .  .  Presently  WAYNE  D.  PONIK 
is  a  product  manager  at  Teradyne,  Inc.,  in 
Chatsworth,  Calif. . . .  HARVEY  ROSENFIELD 
is  president  of  Rosenfield  &  Associates,  Inc., 
Jamaica  Plain,  Mass. .  . .  Currently  PHILIP  B. 
RYAN  serves  as  a  partner  in  N.  F.  Bigelow  & 
Co.,  Manchester,  N.H. 


32    ■jgust1974   WPI  Journal 


ROBERT  D.  SCHLEE  works  at  IBM  Corp., 
San  Jose,  Calif.  .  .  .  Presently  ALFRED  G. 
SYMONDS  is  a  senior  field  service  represen- 
tative for  General  Electric  Ordnance  Sys- 
tems, Pittsfield,  Mass.  He  is  on  assignment  at 
U.S.  Naval  Weapons  Lab.,  Dahlgren,  Va.  .  .  . 
MADHUKAR  B.  VORA  holds  the  post  of  gen- 
eral manager  at  Cambridge  Memories,  Inc., 
Poughkeepsie,  N.Y. . . .  Lt.  Cmdr.  FRANCIS  X. 
WATSON  is  in  charge  of  construction  at  the 
new  U.S.  naval  base  in  the  Indian  Ocean 
(Diego  Garcia).  He  is  a  project  engineer.  . .  . 
JOHN  H.  ZIFCAK,  JR.  serves  as  engineering 
manager  at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co.  .  .  .  Dr. 
RICHARD  FORTIER  has  joined  Stone  & 
Webster  i  n  Boston.  Formerly  he  was  an  assist- 
ant professor  in  mechanical  engineering  at 
Southeastern  Massachusetts  University. 
Dick  writes  that  he  and  his  wife,  Gail,  and  son, 
Jason,  now  live  in  Concord,  Mass. 


1967 


1966 


Married:  DAVID  E.  WILSON  to  Miss  Barbara 
A.  Davis  of  Chevy  Chase,  Maryland  on 
December  15,  1973.  He  serves  as  a  senior 
systems  analyst  for  UNIVAC,  Washington, 
D.C. 

BORN:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  MICHAEL  T. 
PORTANOVA  a  daughter,  Camy,  in  July  of 
1973.  He  is  with  Digital  Equipment  Co.,  May- 

nard,  Mass. 
GARY  ANDERSON  isa  sanitary  engineer  at 

Ken  R.  White  Co.,  Denver,  Colo.  Last  year  he 
received  his  MS  in  environmental  engineer- 
ing from  Duke  University.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  R. 
BOND,  JR.  works  as  a  staff  engineer  at 
Chicago  Finish  Metals,  Bridgeview,  III —  Dr. 
LIONEL  A.  CARREIRA  is  an  instructor  in  the 
Chemistry  Department  in  the  University  of 

Georgia  in  Athens DENNIS  FLANNERY 

works  for  the  New  York  Department  of  Trans- 
portation,  Albany,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Currently 
RICHARD  E.  GOODELL  serves  as  a  plant 
manager  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Victorville,  Calif.  .  .  . 
JOHN  S.JENKINS,  who  is  a  staff  engineer  for 
Terry  Corp.  of  Connecticut,  Terry  Steam 
Turbine,  is  located  in  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  . 
EDWARD  A.  KAZANJIAN,  JR.  has  been 
appointed  director  of  school  plant  for  the 
Brookline  (Mass.)  Public  Schools.  Previously 
he  was  assistant  director  in  Brookline  and 
assistant  director  of  buildings  and  grounds 
for  the  Framingham  Public  Schools. 

JOHN  C.  LEE  serves  as  project  office  engi- 
neer at  Bechtel  Assoc,  Washington,  D.C 

PAUL  G.  MESSIER  works  at  Consolidated 
Controls  Corp.,  Bethel,  Conn.  .  .  .  PAUL  F. 
PETERSON  is  a  technical  consultant  in  Soft- 
ware AG  of  North  America,  Reston,  Va. . . .  The 
First  National  City  Bank,  New  York  City, 
employs  MELVYN  L.  SACK.  .  .  .  PETER  K. 
SOMMER  has  joined  his  father  Kenneth  R. 
Sommer,  in  partnership  to  continue  the  prac- 
tice of  patent,  trademark  and  copyright  law  as 
Sommer  &  Sommer  in  Buffalo,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Presently  ROBERT  J.  ZAVATKAY  works  at 
the  Stanley  Works,  Hand  Tools,  New  Britain, 
Conn. 


Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RICHARD  H.  COURT, 
JR.,  a  son,  Jonathan  Douglas,  on  December 
21,  1973.  Dick,  who  received  his  MS  from 
Adelphi  University  last  year,  was  recently 
named  supervisor  of  quality  control  for  BMC 
in  Danbury,  Conn To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JONA- 
THAN A.  TITUS,  a  son,  Christopher  Hendrie, 
on  April  1,  1974.  Jon  has  started  a  business 
(Titus  Labs,  Blacksburg,  Va.)  which  is  con- 
cerned with  custom  electronic  design  and 
computer    interfacing.    He    has    also 
coauthored  several  recent  articles  on  com- 
puter interfacing  for  Analytical  Chemistry. 
MIC H AEL  B.  BAR R  works  as  plant  manager 

at  M  &  T  Chemicals,  Inc.,  Elizabeth,  N.J 

CHARLES  L.  BLAKE  serves  as  a  staff  engi- 
neer at  Helena  Chemical  Co.,  Memphis, 

Tenn CHARLES  T.  BLANCHARD  is  the 

Republican  candidate  for  the  Water  and 
Sewer  Commission  in  Sturbridge,  Mass.  He 
holds  the  post  of  manager  of  engineering  for 
the  Pneumatic  Ejector  Division  of  CPC  Engi- 
neering Corp.  A  member  of  the  New  England 
Water  Pollution  Control  Association,  he  also 
belongs  to  the  Society  of  Mechanical  Engi- 
neers and  the  Water  Pollution  Control  Fed- 
eration. .  .  .  WILLIAM  F.  CARBONI  works  for 
Albert  A.  Web  Assoc,  Riverside,  Calif.  .  .  . 
ROBERT  H.  CARON  is  with  TRW,  Inc., 
Redondo  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  Rohm  and  Haas 
Company,  Philadelphia,  Pa.,  employs 
RICHARD  E.  DEGENNARO.  .  .  .  ROBERT  E. 
DeNIGRIS  teaches  mathematics  at  the  Mas- 
ters School  in  Dobbs  Ferry,  N.Y. 

JOHN  F.  DOWNES,  JR.  has  been  appointed 
district  manager  of  Fafnir  Bearing  Company's 
Detroit  sales  office.  He  has  been  sales  man- 
ager in  the  Detroit  area  for  three  years  and 
was  previously  in  Moline,  Illinois —  JOHN  A. 
FACCAisan  operating  room  engineerat  Hart- 
ford (Conn.)  Hospital.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  G. 
FERRARA  serves  as  a  sales  engineer  for 
Mount  Hope  Machinery  Co.,  Taunton,  Mass. 
." .  .  Capt.  DAVID  K.  HEEBNER  (U.S.A.)  is 
presently  attending  Naval  Post  Graduate 
School  where  he  is  studying  for  his  master's 
degree  in  Operations  Research.  He  is  located 

in  Monterey,  Calif FREDERICK  P.  HELM 

works  at  Hazeltine  Corp.,  Greenlawn,  N.Y. . . . 
PAUL  HINKLE  is  senior  buyer  at  Arrow-Hart, 

Hartford,  Conn 

EDWARD  W.  PILTZECKER,  JR.  is  with  the 

Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co JOSEPH  R.  PYZIK 

was  recently  awarded  a  $1 00  savings  bond  as 
the  winner  of  an  employee  contest  to  name 
the  new  unbreakable  replacement  glazing 
material  being  manufactured  by  his  firm, 
Rowland  Products,  Inc.,  Kensington,  Conn. 
He  called  the  new  product,  "Perma-Pane." 
Pyzik,  who  is  working  on  his  MBA  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Hartford,  is  employed  as  a  general 
foreman  in  the  Sheet  Products  Division  at 
Rowland. . . .  GEORGE  H.  RAND,  JR.  works  as 
a  technical  salesman  at  Union  Carbide, 
Tarrytown,  N.Y.  .  .  .  ERNEST  L.  SMITH,  SIM, 
chief  industrial  engineer  at  the  Cincinnati 
Milacron-Heald  Division,  recently 
announced  his  candidacy  for  the  three-year 
term  on  the  Auburn  (Mass.)  School  Com- 
mittee. He  currently  holds  an  appointed  posi- 
tion on  the  committee  and  previously  he  has 
served  asan  elected  member. . . .  DUNCAN  C. 
VANDENBERG  is  a  manufacturing  engineer 
at  Dow  Corning  Corp.,  Trumbull,  Conn.  .  .  . 


ELLIOT  F.  WHIPPLE  has  completed  the 
course  of  study  required  for  a  master  of 
science  degree  at  Brown  University,  Provi- 
dence, R.I.  . .  .  U.S.  Air  Force  Captain  JONA- 
THAN P.  WORTHLEY  has  received  his 
master's  degree  at  the  Air  Force  Institute  of 
Technology  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB,  Ohio. 


1968 


Married:  KENNETH  A.  CRAWFORD  to  Miss 
Mona  Atallah  on  December  29,  1973  in 
Worcester.  The  bride  attended  schools  in  Tri- 
poli, Lebanonandisacytotechnologistinthe 
Hahnemann  Hospital  laboratory.  Her  hus- 
band is  a  research  assistant  at  WPI's  Alden 
Labs  and  is  also  a  graduate  student  in  the 
physics  department.  .  .  .  RONALD  F. 
GOLASZEWSKI  to  Miss  Carole  Ann  Grace  on 
April  20,  1974  in  Fall  River,  Massachusetts. 
Mrs.  Golaszewski  graduated  from  Bridge- 
water  State  College  and  teaches  in  Fall  River. 
Her  husband  is  a  rate  analyst  for  the  Provi- 
dence Washington  Insurance  Co.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  A.  DiPIERRO  to  Miss  Jean  Marie 
Mahoney  on  January  19,  1974  in  West 
Harwich,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  an  inte- 
rior decorator  and  graduated  from  Mary- 
mount  College.  The  groom  runs  Polyform 
Corp.,  Westboro,  Mass. 

JOSEPH  S.  ADAMIK,  JR.  is  a  sales  repre- 
sentative at  Price  Brothers  Co.,  Dayton,  Ohio. 
.  . .  ARNOLD  ANTAK,  who  is  a  planner-engi- 
neer for  Howard,  Needles,  Tammen  &  Ber- 
gendoff,  is  presently  working  as  assistant 
project  director  for  the  preparation  of  the 
Final  Environmental  Impact  Statement  for  the 
controversial  relocation  of  Route  2  through 
Lexington,  Lincoln,  Concord,  and  Acton  in 
Massachusetts.  .  .  .  JOHN  J.  BRESNAHAN, 
JR.  works  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
JAMES  R.  CRABB  is  general  superintendent 
at  M.  Rondano,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
MARSHALL  J.  DANA  currently  serves  as  a 
design  engineer  at  Westinghouse  Electric, 
Sunnyvale,  Calif. . . .  GAETANO  DECARO  is  a 
production  supervisor  at  Leaf  Confections, 
Ltd.,  Scarboro,  Ontario,  Canada. 

CARL  A.  ENGSTROM  works  for  Eastern 
Refractories  Co.,  Inc.,  Belmont,  Mass.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  F.  GAMACHE  of  Watertown,  Mass. 
was  recently  appointed  construction  man- 
ager for  Star  Market  which  is  currently 
engaged  in  a  vast  expansion  program.  He 
joined  the  59-store  supermarket  chain  as  a 
projectengineer  in  May  of  1 972. . . .  CHESTER 
J.  KASPER  serves  as  a  sales  engineer  at 
Pearse/Pearson,  Bloomfield,  Conn.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  KUNG,  who  received  his  MS  from 
WPI  in  December,  is  now  studying  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts.  .  .  .  ROUMEN  B. 
KORDOF,  CLU,  is  a  partner  in  Kordof  & 
Golden  Company,  Denver,  Colo.  . . .  JOHN  J. 
KORZICK  holds  the  post  of  account  manager 
at  Industrial  Nucleonics,  Columbus,  Ohio — 
WILLIAM  D.  MAHONEY  is  president  of 
Mahoney-Smith,  Inc.,  Union  Dale,  Pa.  .  .  . 


WPI  Journal  August  1974/33 


JOHN  H.  McCABE  was  recently  promoted  to 
assistant  treasurer  at  Hammond  Plastics, 
Inc.,  Worcester,  the  country's  largest  inde- 
pendent manufacturer  and  distributor  of 
polystyrene.  He  joined  Hammond  as  director 
of  information  systems  in  1970.  Previously  he 
had  worked  as  a  systems  engineer  and  mar- 
keting representative  at  IBM.  Jack,  who  has 
his  MBA  from  Clark  University,  is  a  member  of 
the  Presidents'  Club  of  the  Worcester  Area 
Chamber  of  Commerce  and  a  member  of  the 
Chamber's  Leadership  Program.  He  is  vice 
president  of  the  Worcester  County  Chapter  of 
the  WPI  Alumni  Association. 

Dr.  JOSEPH  F.  OWENS,  III  is  a  research 
associate/lecturer  at  Case  Western  Reserve 
University,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  He  received  his 
PhD  from  Tufts  last  year. ...  Dr.  MICHAEL  R. 
PAIGE  works  at  Sperry  Research  Center, 

Sudbury,  Mass Capt.  RICHARD  G.  PER- 

REAULT  has  graduated  from  the  Engineer 
Officers'  Career  Course  at  Ft.  Belvoir,  Va.  and 
is  now  assigned  to  the  Far  East  Engineer  Dis- 
trict in  Seoul,  Korea JOHN  M.  PETRIE  is 

the  senior  project  engineer  at  ESE  Limited, 
Toronto,  Ontario,  Canada.  .  .  .  DAVID  B. 
POTTER  has  been  appointed  Central  Maine 
Power  Company's  local  manager  in  Dam- 
ariscotta.  In  1 968  he  joined  CMP  as  assistant 
power  sales  engineer  in  the  Portland  office.  In 
1 972  he  became  division  operations  assistant 
in  Brunswick. 

WALTER  SACKMANN  is  a  sales  engineer 
for  the  Hope  Company,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  S.  SADOWSKI  was  recently 
promoted  to  manager  of  the  Fuel  Burning 
Engineering  Dept.  at  Riley  Stoker  Corpora- 
tion in  Worcester.  He  joined  the  firm's 
research  and  development  department  in 
1968.  After  serving  in  Viet  Nam  and  winning 
two  bronze  stars  and  the  Army  Com- 
mendation medal,  he  returned  to  join  Riley's 
fuel  burning  department  in  1971.  In  1972  he 
joined  the  gas  cleaning  systems  department 
coordinating  the  engineering  of  the  first  fuel- 
sized  utility  sulfur  dioxide  removal  system 
sold  by  the  company.  He  was  co-author  of  a 
paper  entitled:  "An  Experimental  Correlation 
of  Oxides  of  Nitrogen  Emissions  from  Power 
Boilers  Based  on  Field  Data,"  which  was 
presented  to  the  American  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineersin  1972.  Riley Stokeris 
one  of  the  country's  largest  designers  and 
builders  of  power  generating,  fuel  burning, 
and  gas  cleaning  systems. 

RUSSELLB.  SNYDER  serves asaninstruc- 
tor  in  the  Department  of  Business  Administra- 
tion and  Economics  at  St.  Michael's  College, 
Winooski,  Vt.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  J.  STADNICKI, 
JR.  is  a  graduate  student  at  Princeton.  .  .  . 
MICHAEL  J.  TRUE  is  a  sales  and  marketing 
representative  for  Maine  Building  Spec.  Co., 
Portland,  Me.  .  .  .  RICHARD  B.  VAUGHN,  who 
iswith  General  Electric  in  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  is 
also  a  part-time  MBA  student  at  Clark  Univer- 
sity. Worcester. .  . .  ROBERT  A.  WILEY  serves 
as  a  product  engineer  for  Raytheon  Co. ,  West 


Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  EDWARD  F.  CANNON, 
former  WPI  All  America  soccer  player,  has 
been  appointed  assistant  athletic  director  at 
SaintAnselm'sCollege,  Manchester,  N.H.  He 
will  also  direct  the  college  intramural  pro- 
gram, and  serve  as  assistant  soccer  coach 
and  varsity  golf  coach.  Since  graduating  from 
WPI,  he  has  taught  math  and  science  at 
Worcester  Academy  where  he  also  coached 
soccer  and  basketball.  In  1 972  he  was  named 
assistant  athletic  director  of  the  Academy. 
That  same  year  he  led  the  Worcester  Scans 
semi-pro  soccer  squad  to  the  Mass.  State 
Soccer  League  title. 


1969 


Married:  Lt.  DAVID  J.  PIETRASZEWSKI  to 
Miss  Kathleen  M.  Stochmal  on  May  25, 1 974  in 
New  Britain,  Connecticut.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  Saint  Joseph  College  and  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College.  She  is  a  special 
education  teacher.  Presently  her  husband  is 
assigned  at  the  U.S.  Coast  Guard  Research 
and  Development  Center,  Groton,  Conn. . . . 

2/Lt.  DAVID  J.  MANCHESTER  toMiss  Mary 
M.  Beaudry  on  February  2,  1974  in  Newport, 
Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Manchester  graduated 
from  Beaver  College,  Glenside,  Pa.,  and  is  an 
administrative  assistant  at  the  Naval  War 
College.  The  bridegroom  recently  graduated 
from  Officer  Training  School,  Lackland  AFB, 
Texas. . . .  ROBERT  W.  SMITH  and  Miss  Joan 
M.  Bucci  on  May  18,  1974  in  Canton,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Smith  graduated  from  Bridge- 
water  State  College.  Her  husband  is  a 
metallurgist  at  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co., 
Westboro,  Mass. 

RICHARD  ALPERT  is  a  technical  writer  at 
Unitrode  Corp.,  Watertown,  Mass.  .  .  .  WIL- 
LIAM A.  BENSCH  works  as  a  senior  program- 
mer at  General  Electric's  space  division  in 
King  of  Prussia,  Pa.  .  .  .  HARVEY  S. 
BIERENBAUM  serves  as  a  research  engineer 
at  Celanese  Research  Co.,  Summit,  N.J. 

JOHN  F.  DODA  works  at  Underwriters 
Labs,  Inc.,  Melville,  N.Y.  .  .  .  CHARLES  T. 
DOE,  who  recently  became  an  associate  of 
the  Society  of  Actuaries,  has  been  promoted 
to  actuarial  associate  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Company  of  America  in  Worces- 
ter. .  .  .  STEPHEN  A.  ERIKSON  is  employed 
by  Anderson  Bros.,  Pharmacy,  Worcester. . . . 
JOSEPH  E.  FITZGERALD,  JR.  is  a  design 
engineer  at  Babcock  &  Wilcox,  Lynchburg, 
Va.  . . .  WARREN  F.  FOLLETT  is  with  Hughes 
Aircraft  Co.,  Culver  City,  Calif.  .  .  .  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.,  Fram- 
ingham,  Mass.,  employs  CHARLES  E. 
FORAND.  .  .  .  JOHN  GRANT  is  with  the  sales 
office  of  Cambion  (Cambridge  Thermionic 
Corp.)  in  Cambridge,  Mass.  He  had  been  with 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard. 

EDWARD  L.  GRIFFITH,  JR.  is  now  with 
Emcon  Associates  in  California.  He  works  in 
the  field  of  waste  management. . . .  RICHARD 
M.  GROSS  received  his  PhD  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Utah  in  June.  This  fall  he  will  serve  as  a 
research  engineer  at  Dow  Chemical  Co., 
Midland,  Mich.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  W.  HAMMOND 
works  for  the  Morris  County  Dept.  of  Public 
Works,  Morristown,  N.J.  .  .  .  PAUL  HAYNER 
holds  the  post  of  estimating  engineer  at 
Spaulding  &  Slye  Corp.,  Boston.  .  .  .  GREG- 
ORY T  HOPKINS  is  with  MitreCorp,  Bedford, 


Mass.  .  .  .  RONALD  L.  JONES  was  recently 
appointed  sales  engineer  for  Jones'  Enter- 
prises, Inc.,  in  East  Hartford,  Conn.  Pre- 
viously he  was  with  Kelly-Springfield  Division 

of  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber  Co JAMES  P. 

MILLS  works  as  a  nuclear  project  engineer  for 
General  Dynamics,  Electric  Boat  Division, 
Groton,  Conn. 

STEPHEN  F.  NAGY  serves  as  a  systems 
sales  application  engineer  at  the  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Co.  .  .  .  MATTHEW  T.  NECLERIO  is 
plant  engineer  and  general  manager  of  Para- 
mount Wire  and  Harness  Co.,  New  Haven, 
Conn.  He  is  also  working  for  his  MBA  at  the 
University  of  New  Haven.  He  has  had  several 
articles  published  in  various  medical 
journals.  .  .  .  JOEL  F.  O'ROURKE  teaches  at 
Holy  Name  High  School,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
STEPHEN  O.  ROGERS  holds  the  position  of 
plant  production  supervisor  at  DuPont  in 
Denton,  N.C.  .  .  .  Presently  THOMAS 
SEMPREBON  is  vice  president  of  his  family's 
business,  Calmont  Beverage,  in  Barre,  Vt. 

Formerly  he  was  with  Goodyear ROBERT 

S.  TEMPLIN  is  an  attorney-at-law  in 
Haddonfield,  N.J.  .  .  .  PETER  R.  WALSH 
serves  as  a  field  engineer  for  General  Electric 
in  Millburn,  N.J. 


1970 


Married:  Lt.  DANIEL  B.  BENTLEY  (U.S.A.) 
and  Miss  Dianne  M.  Budney  on  March  30, 
1974  in  Auburn,  Massachusetts.  The  bride 
attended  Holy  Family  College  in  Philadelphia, 
Pa.  and  received  a  BA  degree  in  mathematics 
from  Worcester  State  College  in  January.  Lt. 
Bentley  recently  returned  from  a  tour  of  duty 
in  Turkey. 

ROBERT  B.  CALLAN  is  with  Wang  Labora- 
tories, Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  DONALD  A. 
COLANGELO  holds  the  post  of  transportation 
planner,  at  Harland  Bartholomew  &  Assoc, 
Memphis,  Tenn. . .  .  CHRISTOPHER  J.  COW- 
LES  is  senior  systems  analyst  at  Program- 
ming Methods,  Inc.,  GTE,  New  York  City 

VICTOR  J.  DENNIS  works  as  a  forms  analyst 
for  Hartford  Insurance  Group,  Harford,  Conn. 
.  .  WILLIAM  A.  FERRANTI,  who  is  with  Fac- 
tory Insurance  Assoc,  is  located  in 
Waitsfield,  Vt.  .  .  .  DOMENIC  F.  FORCELLA, 
JR.  has  been  nominated  for  the  1 974  Jaycee 
Distinguished  Service  Award  in  Plainville, 
Conn.  He  is  recognized  for  his  concern  for  the 
environment,  participation  in  governmental 
affairs,  and  his  political  involvement. 


34       jgust1974    WPI  Journal 


HOWARD  V.  GOLDBERG  is  employed  at 
Kennecott  Copper,  Lexington,  Mass. . . .  ROB- 
ERT W.GRADY  is  a  field  engineer  for  General 
Electric  Technical  Services  Co., 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  Currently  he  works  as  an 
overseas  technical  advisor  on  G.E.  gas 
turbines.  .  .  .  ERIC  W.  HENRY  is  studying  at 
Collegeof  the  Atlantic  in  Maine. . . .  SHELDON 
KATZ  serves  as  a  computer  programmer  at 
Hoffman  LaRoche,  Cranbury,  N.  J. . . .  PAUL  A. 
LEE  holds  the  post  of  principal  engineer  at 
Lockheed  Electronics,  Plainfield,  N.J.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  T.  LLOYD  is  with  G.  T.  Schjeldahl 
Co  ,  East  Providence,  R.I. 

FRANKD.  MEOLI  works  as  a  sales  engineer 
at  Eastern  Fire  Door  Co.,  Inc.,  West  Haven, 
Conn.  .  .  .  GREGORY  O.  MOBERG  is  a 
research  engineer  at  Eastman  Kodak  Com- 
pany, Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  .  GEORGE  P. 
MOORE,  who  received  his  JD  from  Suffolk 
University,  is  a  self-employed  attorney  in 
Worcester.  .  .  .KENNETH  W.  OBERG  now 
works  for  Narragansett  Electric,  Providence, 
R.I.  He  is  also  a  WPI  evening  graduate 
student. 

GERALD  E.  PIEPIORA  is  a  sales  engineer 

for  Freemire  &  Assoc,  Inc.,  Baltimore,  Md 

RICHARD  B.  ROCK,  who  has  received  his 
professional  engineer's  license  in  Pennsylva- 
nia, works  at  United  Engineers  and  Construc- 
tors, Inc.,  Philadelphia.  He  is  in  the  nuclear 
power  plant  field.  .  .  .  ROBERT  A.  ROSEN- 
BERG serves  as  manager,  special  services,  at 
Tahoe  Donner,  a  4,000-acre  resort  commu- 
nity in  the  California  Sierras  at  Truckee.  His 
responsibilities  include  community  relations, 
working  as  local  marketing  coordinator,  spe- 
cial projects  manager  and  being  responsible 
for  setting  up  the  Property  Service  Company 
for  the  parent  company,  Dart  Resorts.  .  .  . 
STEPHEN  A.  TUREK  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut,  Storrs.  .  .  . 
PHILIP  C.  WARREN  is  a  staff  engineer  in  the 
plant  engineering  department  at  Nashua 
(N.H.) Corp. . . .  JUAN  F.  WEISZ  iscurrently  a 
graduate  teaching  assistant  at  Northeastern 
University,  Boston.  .  .  .  PAUL  C.  WILSON,  a 
PhD  candidate  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut, has  been  awarded  the  $750  Michael 
Perry  Memorial  Scholarship  of  the  Hartford 
Section  of  the  American  Welding  Society.  His 
research  focuses  on  welding  and  casting  of 
metals  and  he  will  use  the  award  to  support  a 
portion  of  his  studies  of  weld  metal  solidi- 
fication in  electroslag  welding. 


1971 


Married:  CHARLES  E.  BROADHURST  and 
Miss  Shireen  Rahavy  on  February  1 ,  1 974  in 
Blackstone,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Broadhurst 
graduated  from  Endicott  Junior  College  in 
Beverly  and  is  employed  by  the  Blackstone 
Valley  National  Bank.  She  is  also  "Wendy  the 
Weathergirl"  on  radio  station  WMRC,  Milford. 
The  groom  is  assistant  branch  manager  of  the 
Blackstone  Valley  National  Bank  in  Millbury. 
.  .  .  JAMES  W.  REGAN  to  Miss  Joan  H. 
Huesner  on  February  16,  1974  in  Worcester. 
The  bride  is  a  registered  nurse  at  Memorial 
Hospital.  Her  husband  is  a  civil  engineer  for 

Zoppo  Construction  Co.,  Norwood,  Mass 

ROBERT  A.  WOOLLACOTT,  JR.  to  Miss 
Nancy  J.  Marchak  on  May  11,1 974  in  West 
Hartford,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Woollacott,  a 
Becker  graduate,  is  a  secretary  with  Henry 
Schadler  Associates,  Architects,  West  Hart- 
ford. The  groom,  who  is  with  Curtis  1000  in 
West  Hartford,  is  an  MBA  candidate  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut. 

HAROLD  B.  ALTER  is  a  graduate  student  in 
the  City  and  Regional  Planning  Department  at 
the  University  of  North  Carolina,  Chapel  Hill. 
This  year  he  receives  his  MRP. . ...  RICHARD 
A.  ARENA  serves  as  a  foreman  at  U.S.  Steel 
Supply,  Brighton,  Mass.  .  .  .  DON  A. 
BACKLUND  is  an  insurance  and  real  estate 
broker  with  R.  E.  Backlund  Insurance 
Agency,  Inc.,  Rehoboth,  Mass.  .  .  .  WILLIAM 
R.  BELOFF  is  employed  at  Soil  &  Rock 
Instrumentation,  Newtonville,  Mass.  .  .  . 
AVANISH  I.  BH  AG  AT  is  an  MBA  student  at  the 
University  of  Bridgeport  in  Connecticut.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  C.  BLAKE  is  with  GM  Detroit 
Diesel,  Detroit,  Mich.  .  .  .  BRUCE  N. 
BOSSERMAN  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Connecticut  in  Storrs. 

ROBERT  M.  BYRNE  works  as  an  assistant 
engineer  at  Hartford  Electric  Light  Co., 
Wethersfield,  Conn.  .  .  .  THOMAS  R.  COPP, 
product  engineer  in  Simonds'  research  and 
development  department,  Fitchburg,  Mass., 
was  profiled  in  the  May  3rd  issue  of  Simonds 
Spotlighter.  Tom,  who  has  been  with  the  com- 
pany since  1972,  analyzes  the  problems 
occurring  in  marketed  productswhich  are  not 
performing  properly.  He  then  develops  a  pro- 
gram to  improve  product  performance. 
Currently,  with  the  aid  of  a  new  dynamic  test- 
ing machine,  he  is  working  to  improve  the 
fatigue  resistance  of  the  backing  material 

usedforacarbidetippedbandsaw JAMES 

F.  CRITTENDEN  is  an  engineering  trainee  at 
Packer  Machine  Company,  Meriden,  Conn. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  S.  DELIS  works  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn. . . .  ROBERT  C. 
DUGGER,  JR.  serves  as  an  accountant 
trainee  at  Acnat  Corporation,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  RICHARD  E.  DYNIA  works  for 

MonsantoCo.inBloomfield.Conn JAMES 

R.  FAY  is  a  structural  engineer  for  the  U.S. 

Army  Corps  of  Engineers,  Waltham,  Mass 

MICHAEL  J.  GITLEN  holds  the  post  of  opera- 
tions auditor  at  E-B  Industries,  Inc.Simsbury, 
Conn. . . .  NORMAN  E.  JOHNSON  is  a  process 
development  engineer  for  General  Electric, 
Mt.  Vernon,  Indiana. 


MICHAEL  J.  KAJENisagraduatestudent  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  JOHN  J.  LARAMEE  works  at  New 

England  Telephone  in  Framingham,  Mass 

Dr.  RICHARD  P.  LINDSAY,  a  senior  research 
engineer  at  Heald  Division,  Cincinnati 
Milacron,  Worcester,  was  a  featured  speaker 
at  the  13th  Abrasives  Conference  held  in 
Philadelphia  in  June.  His  topics  were:  "Chat- 
ter-Free Grinding  Time,"  "Evaluating  Grind- 
ing Fluid  Performance,"  and  "Factors 
Affecting  Borazon  CBN  Grinding  Systems." 
He  has  worked  extensively  in  the  research 
and  development  of  grinding  systems  and 
machine  hardware.  He  is  widely  published  in 
technical  books,  professional  journals,  and 
trade  magazines.  .  .  .  SCOTT  T. 
McCANDLESS   works   for   Environmental 

Research  &  Technology,  Lexington,  Mass 

W.ROBERT  MELVILLE  isafacilitiesengineer 
at  Rochester  Products/General  Motors  in 
Rochester,  N.Y.  He  is  also  studying  for  his 
MBA  at  Rochester  Institute  of  Technology. 

DAVID  P.  MURPHY  works  for  the  Fairfax 
(Va.)  county  government.  .  .  .  THOMAS  A. 
PANDOLFI  is  on  the  professional  technical 
staff  at  Princeton  University.  .  . .  DONALD  K. 
PETERSON  has  been  promoted  to  invest- 
ment analyst  at  the  State  Mutual  Life  Assur- 
ance Co.  of  America  in  Worcester.  He  joined 
State  Mutual  in  1973  after  graduating  from 
Dartmouth's  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business 
Administration.  .  .  .  Currently  JOHN  G. 
PLONSKYisa  graduate  student  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Massachusetts.  .  .  .  ABBAS  A.  SALIM 
works  for  Martin  Marietta  Corp.,  Denver, 
Colo.  .  .  .  LAWRENCE  SNIEGOSKI  is  com- 
pleting requirements  for  his  master's  degree 
at  Fairleigh  Dickinson  College,  Rutherford, 
N.J. . . .  DENNIS  J.  STABA  is  with  Combustion 
Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  DONALD 
TANANA,  now  a  warehouse  supervisor  for 
Clairol,  Inc.,  in  Glendale,  Calif.,  is  attending 
USC  in  the  MBA  evening  program.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  V.  TINO,  JR.,  who  is  a  quality 
improvement  engineer  at  Polaroid  Corp., 
Waltham,  Mass.,  was  married  July  8,  1973  to 
Miss  Clare  E  Snow  of  Easton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
URMAS  A.  VOLKE  is  a  design  engineer  with 
Dynamac  Inc.  (consulting  engineers)  in 
Natick,  Mass. . . .  STEVEN  C.  WATSON  is  the 
outside  plant  manager  at  New  England  Tele- 
phone Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  TRENT 
GERMANO  works  for  Parsons,  Brinckerhoff, 
Tudor  and  Bechtel  in  Atlanta,  Ga.  The 
Germanos  have  a  daughter  Kristen,  who  is  a 
year  old. 


1972 


Married:  GLENN  E.  CABANA  and  Miss  Denise 
T.  Robichaud  April  21 , 1 974  in  Methuen,  Mas- 
sachusetts. Mrs.  Cabana  is  a  secretary.  The 
bridegroom  is  with  Western  Electric  in  North 
Andover.  .  .  .  Lt.  JOHN  A.  WOODWARD  to 
Miss  Nancy  D.  Roden  on  March  9,  1974  in 
Pensacola,  Florida.  The  bride  is  a  senior  at 
Montevallo  University  in  Alabama.  Her  hus- 
band is  serving  with  the  U.S.  Marine  Corps  at 
Cherry  Point,  N.C. 


WPI  Journal  /August  1974/35 


jamesbury 

fj  manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


RALPH  A.  BLACKMER  is  with  Astra  Phar- 
maceutical Products,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
CHARLES  R.  CAIN,  JR.  is  a  graduate  student 
in  the  electrical  engineering  department  at 
WPI.  .  .  .  SAMUEL  T.  DAVIS  is  foreman-MMP 
Program  at  General  Electric  in  Danville,  Illi- 
nois. .  .  .  JOSEPH  V.  GOTTA  serves  as  a  pro- 
duction controller  at  Ludlow  Corporation, 

Holyoke,  Mass ROBERT  A.  GRANT  is  an 

assistant  engineer  at  Howard,  Needles, 
Tammen  &  Bergendoff,  Boston.  .  . .  Currently 
CHRISTOPHER  L.  HATCH  is  an  associate 
engineer  at  New  England  Telephone  Co., 
Framingham,  Mass. 

JOHN  M.CUTH  works  as  an  associate  engi- 
neer at  Raytheon  Co.,  Portsmouth,  R.I. 
GARY  A.  FOOTE  is  an  analyst/programmer 
at  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty,  Hartford,  Conn.  . 
JEFFREY  S.  HUNTER  works  for  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  ROY  A.  LINDBLAD 
holds  the  post  of  equipment  engineer  at  Lane 
Construction  Corp.,  Meriden,  Conn.  .  .  . 
DOUGLAS  MACH  is  with  General 
Instruments  Corp..  Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  . 

LARRY  J.  PRICKETT  is  a  process  engineer 
at  du  Pont-Spruance,  Fibers  Division, 
Richmond,  Va.  .  .  .  KENNETH  S.  PRIGGEN 
works  at  United  States  Gypsum  Co.,  Stony 
Point.  NY. . . .  MARCELLO  A.  RANALLI  iswith 
NAB  Coronado,  Coronado,  Calif. . . .  KEITH  F. 
SIMONS  serves  as  a  design  engineer  at 
Morgan  Construction  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
2  Lt  BRUCE  M.  SZYPOT,  a  member  of  the 
millimeter  wave  radar  team  from  the  Army 
Ballistic  Research  Laboratories,  Aberdeen 
Proving  Ground,  Md.,  is  also  a  coach.  He 
coaches  the  first-place  Colts  team  in  the  9-1 3 
year  old  division  of  the  Junior  Basketball 
League  Bruce  joined  the  Recreation  Serv- 
ices Youth  Activities  basketball  program  last 
season  and  coached  the  Colts  to  a  second- 
place  spot  in  the  League.  While  at  WPI,  he 
served  as  coach  to  a  team  of  1 3  and  1 4-year- 
olds  RICHARD  S  TUMOLO  presented  a 
paper,  "An  Experimental  Determination  of 


Listeners'  Ability  to  Detect  and  Decode 
Simultaneous  Messages  on  the  Basis  of 
Pitch,"  before  the  psychological  acoustics 
section  of  the  Acoustical  Society  of  America 
in  New  York  last  April.  Presently  a  graduate 
research  assistant  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts, his  work  is  supported  by  the 
National  Institutes  of  Health.  This  summer  he 
receives  his  MS  in  electrical  engineering. . . . 
Terry  Steam  Turbine  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. 

employs  ROBERT  F.  WEIR RICHARD  E. 

WILLEY  holds  the  post  of  publication  special- 
ist at  Norton  Company  in  Worcester. 


1973 


Married:  Miss  KATHLEEN  A.  COYLE  to  Mr. 
Gordon  S.  Nichols  on  January  5,  1974.  The 
bride  is  employed  as  an  analytical  engineer  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn., 
where  her  husband  serves  as  a  cost  engineer. 
.  .  .  GEORGE  P.  GOSSELIN  and  Miss  Glenna 
Marshall  in  Falls  Village,  Connecticut  on  April 
20, 1974.  Mrs.  Gosselin  attended  Anna  Maria 
College  and  graduated  from  the  Yale-New 
Haven  Nursing  Program.  Mr.  Gosselin  is 
employed  by  Travelers. . . .  PETER  B.  WEBER 
and  Miss  Ann  Marie  Schonning  on  January 
1 2, 1 974  i  n  Worcester.  The  bride  is  a  senior  at 
Worcester  State  College.  The  groom  is 
asssociated  with  his  father  at  Allied  Metal 
Products  Co. 

ERIC  BERGSTEDT  is  a  product  engineer  at 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  JEFF  E. 
BLAISDELL  has  been  appointed  building 
inspector  in  Upton,  Mass.  He  is  a  project  engi- 
neer with  the  George  B.  H.  Macomber  Co. 


STEVEN  M.  BUBA  has  been  employed  as 
director  of  computer  operations  at  United 
Restaurant  Equipment  Co.,  North  Smithfield, 
R.I. . . .  JOYCE  L.  CAPLOVICH,  who  has  been 
with  WICN  (radio)  in  Worcester,  plans  to  join 
VISTA  shortly.  .  .  .  HAN-TEE  (HSI)  CHEN  is  a 
research  assistant  at  Rutgers  Medical 
School,  Piscataway,  N.J.  .  .  .  RICHARD  D. 
CRISPINO  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.,  Windsor, 
Conn. . . .  Currently  THOMAS  P.  DAGOSTINO 
is  a  design  engineer  with  Tektronix,  Inc., 
Beaverton,  Oregon. 

THOMAS  J.  DUTKIEWICZ  works  for  North- 
east Utilities,  West  Springfield,  Mass. . . .  WIL- 
LIAM S.  ELLIOTT  is  presently  working  for 
General  Electric  at  South  African  General 
Electric,  New  Castle,  South  Africa.  Previously 
he  had  spent  five  months  in  France  at  one  of 
the  world's  largest  steel  mill  complexes  near 
Marseille.  ...RICHARD  T.GARAGLIANO  is  a 
development  engineer  at  Hercules, 
Hopewell,  Va.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  ADRIEN  L. 
GAUDREAU,  JR.  (USAF)  is  now  stationed  at 
L. G.  Hanscom  Field,  Bedford,  Mass. . . .  JOHN 
F.  GIBSON  has  been  teaching  religion, 
mathematics,  and  science  to  elementary  and 
high  school  students  at  Above  Rocks,  St. 
Catherine,  Jamaica.  He  is  a  novice  for  the 
Society  of  Jesus,  New  England  Province,  and 
is  studying  at  Weston  College  of  Theology, 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  GREEN- 
BERG  is  at  The  U.S.  Navy  Nuclear  Power 
School,  Mare  Island,  Calif.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  J. 
MAGRI  works  as  a  loss  prevention  represen- 
tative for  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Co., 
Boston. 

MICHAEL  E.  MERKLE  has  been  employed 
as  a  design  engineer  at  Taylor,  Wiseman  & 
Taylor,  Moorestown,  N.J.  .  .  .  AMERICO  V. 
PASQUAZZI  is  a  research  assistant  in  the  EE 
department  at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island 
in  Kingston BILL  C.  PENNEY  is  a  cardio- 
vascular technician  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital, 
Department  of  Cardiology,  Worcester. 

BERTRAND  PINEL-DARRIEUX  is  with 
Siibela  in  Paris,  France.  .  .  .  NANDUBHAI  M. 
PR  AJ  APATI  serves  as  a  mechanical  designer 
at  Mikropul  Canada,  Ltd.,  Bramalea,  Ontario, 
Canada.  .  .  .  DANIEL  H.  PRIOR  is  now  with 
MassachusettsElectricCo.,Hopedale,Mass. 
. . .  STEPHEN  R.  SLAVICK  is  a  junior  engineer 
in  the  main  office  of  the  New  York  State 
Department  of  Transportaion,  planning  and 
research  bureau.  .  .  .  2/Lt.  RICHARD  F. 
SLIWOSKI  is  with  the  8th  (Army)  Infantry 
Division  in  Dexheim,  Germany,  where  he  is  a 
platoon  leader  in  Company  B  of  the  1 2th  Engi- 
neer Battalion. 

GREGORY  L.  STAMPER  is  now  an  ensign 
in  the  USNR  where  he  serves  as  a  student 
naval  aviator.  He  is  located  in  Kingsville, 
Texas. . . .  M  ANUBHAI G.  TH  AKKAR  serves  as 
a  quality  assurance  supervisor  at  Royal 
Industries,  Mississauga,  Ontario,  Canada. 
ANTHONY  R.  URJIL  is  a  sales  trainee  at 
Morse  Chain,  Ithaca,  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOSEPH  J. 
VALLERA  is  an  engineer-advance  products/ 
generator  advance  engineering,  for  General 
Electric  Co.  in  Lynn,  Mass.  .  .  ROBERT  R. 
WOOD  works  as  an  application  engineer  at 
Ingersoll-Rand,  Wellesley,  Mass.  .  . 
GEORGE  E.  YESOWITCH  teaches  science 
for  the  North  Smithfield  (R.I.)  School 
Department. 


36/August  1974   WPI  Journal 


It  was  here  three  years  ago 

and  two  years  ago  we  found  it  coming  back 

and  just  last  year  it  showed  up  again. 

Homecoming. 

Look  for  it  at  WPI  October  11  and  12! 


A  brochure  on  this  program  was 
mailed  to  all  alumni  in  May.  Add- 
itional brochures  and  reservation 
forms  may  be  obtained  upon  re- 
quest from  the  Alumni  Office. 


plus  10%  tax  and  service 


Departing  from  Boston  on 
Tuesday  evening,  November  5. 
Returning  to  Boston  on 
Wednesday,  November  13. 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/37 


PHILIP  L  SIBLEY,  '04,  of  Pasadena,  Califor- 
nia died  recently.  Born  on  May  27,  1883  in 
Westfield,  Mass.,  he  later  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  During  his 
lifetime  he  was  associated  with  E.  P.  Noyes, 
Standard  Plunger  Elevator  Co.,  Otis  Elevator 
Co.,  Sinclair  Motor  Co.,  and  Henry  Hunting 
Book  Store.  From  1 926  until  1 939  he  was  with 
G.  Lawrence  Stimson  Co.  in  Pasedena. 


ROY  A.  FITCH,  '05,  died  on  February  28, 1 974 
in  Potsdam,  New  York.  Born  on  July  12,  1881 
in  Hopkinton  Mass.,  he  later  became  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI.  In  1905  he  graduated  as  a  civil 
engineer.  His  entire  professional  career  was 
devoted  to  structural  engineering. 

In  1 905  he  was  employed  at  the  Pennsylva- 
nia Steel  Co.  at  Harrisburg,  Pa.  He  also  held 
positions  with  Virginia  Bridge  and  Iron  Com- 
pany, Roanoke,  Va.  and  the  Department  of 
Structures  of  the  New  York  Central  Railroad 
where  he  was  employed  from  1909  until  his 
retirement  in  1949. 


ALBERT  G.  BELDEN,  '07,  the  retired  man- 
ager of  Research  and  Engineering  of  the 
Grinding  Machine  Division  of  Norton  Com- 
pany, died  in  Worcester  on  March  30,  1974. 

He  was  born  on  June  5,  1885  in  Lenox, 
Mass  In  1907  he  received  his  mechanical 
engineering  degree  from  WPI.  During  his 
career  he  was  with  O.K.  Tool  Holder  Co.; 
Pneumatic  Scale  Corp.;  Mfg.  Equipment  & 
Eng.  Co.;  Heald  Machine  Co.;  and  United 
ShoeMachineryCorp  Heretiredfrom  Norton 
in  1950  after  38  years  of  service.  While  at 
Norton,  he  was  responsible  for  over  30  grind- 
ing machine  patents. 

Mr.  Belden  belonged  to  the  American 
Society  of  Tool  &  Manufacturing  Engineers. 
He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts. 


ROBERT  C.  BLISS,  '07,  of  Bedford,  New  York 
died  on  February  1 7, 1 973.  He  was  88. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  was  born  on  N  ovem- 
ber  13,  1884.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  was 
self-employed  for  several  years  and  then 
joined  the  Travelers  Insurance  Co.  Later  he 
was  an  industrial  engineer  at  Remington 
Rand,  Inc. 


ARTHUR  J. 

KNIGHT,  '07,  who 

taught  civil  engi- 
neering at  WPI  from 
1910  until  1957, 
died  in  Worcester 
on  June  1, 1974.  He 
was  89  years  old. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  from  WPI 
as  a  civil  engineer  in  1 907.  For  three  years  he 
was  a  resident  engineer  for  the  Northern 
Pacific  Railroad  before  returning  to  WPI  as  an 
instructor  in  1910.  In  1916  he  became  an 
assistant  professor  and  superintendent  of 
buildings  and  grounds.  He  was  made  acting 
head  of  the  civil  engineering  department  in 
1 956.  In  1 957  he  retired  from  teaching,  but  he 
continued  working  with  the  school  plant  and 
was  named  Professor  Emeritus,  C.E.  and 
Consultant  for  Building  Planning. 

Prof.  Knight  supervised  the  construction 
and  renovation  of  a  number  of  campus  build- 
ings including  Kaven  Hall  and  Olin  Hall.  He 
was  treasurer  of  the  Athletic  Association  and 
a  member  of  the  Athletic  Council  from  its 
founding  in  191 5  until  1968.  He  was  a  member 
of  the  Consulting  Committee  on  Development 
and  Building. 

In  1960  he  was  awarded  a  citation  which 
read  in  part:  "there  is  some  of  'A.J.'  in  every 
facility  constructed  at  Worcester  Tech  over 
the  last  50  years."  The  students  honored  him 
by  dedicating  the  Peddler  to  him  in  1 956,  and 
in  1963  WPI's  athletic  field  became  known 
officially  as  the  A.J.  Knight  Athletic  Field. 

Prof.  Knight,  who  was  also  active  in  traffic 
planning  in  Worcester,  was  a  member  of  the 
Worcester  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  the 
Boston  Society  of  Civil  Engineers,  MSPE, 
ASEE  and  AAUP.  He  wasa  past  vice  president 
of  the  Northeastern  Section  of  ASCE  and 
belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon,  Sigma  Xi,  and 
Skull. 


HERBERT  P.  SAWTELL,  '08,  died  in  Worces- 
ter on  March  1 ,  1 974.  He  was  89. 

Mr.  Sawtell  was  a  sales  engineer  at  the 
former  Leland-Gifford  Co.,  where  he  worked 
for  47  years  before  retiring  in  1 959. 

He  was  born  in  Clinton,  Mass.  on  December 
23,  1884.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1 908,  he  worked  at  Bath 
Grinder  Co.  and  Sullivan  Machinery  Co. 
before  joining  Leland-Gifford  in  1912. 

He  was  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old-Timers 
Club,  and  a  charter  member  and  past  master 
of  Roseof  Sharon  Lodge  of  Masons.  Hewasa 
32nd  degree  Mason,  a  member  of  all  Scottish 
Rite  Bodies,  and  the  Massachusetts  Con- 
istory  in  Boston 

Mr.  Sawtell  was  the  father  of  Edward  A. 
Sawtell,  '36. 


CHARLES  G.  LIDSTROM,  '09,  died  April  18, 
1974  in  Mt.  Vernon,  New  York.  He  was  92 
years  old. 

In  1949  he  retired  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
the  New  York  City  Board  of  Transportation. 
Previously  he  had  been  associated  with 
Rodman,  New  York  City;  the  Catskill  Aque- 
duct Board  of  Water  Supply,  City  of  New  York; 
and  the  Sewer  Construction  Department  in 
Brooklyn. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  Nov.  26, 1 881 
and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1909.  A  profes- 
sional engineer  and  land  surveyor  in  New 
York  state,  he  was  also  a  member  of  the  New 
York  City  Municipal  Engineers. 


FRED  L.  HEWES  OF  Old  Bridge,  New  Jersey, 
class  president  of  the  Class  of  1 91 0,  died  on 
March  12,  1974. 

He  was  born  on  December  9, 1 889  in  West- 
field,  Mass.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
civil  engineer,  he  worked  for  Fred  W.  Marks  in 
Worcester  and  for  the  Harris  Co.  in  New  York 
City.  Later  he  was  with  Turner  Construction 
Co.,  Donald  Hewes,  and  M.  Shapiro  &  Sons. 
Healso  ran  Fred  L.  HewesConstruction  Co.  in 
New  York  City,  retiring  in  1 958. 

Mr.  Hewes  was  a  member  of  Tau  Beta  Pi 
and  Sigma  Xi. 


RAYMOND  E.  KELLEY,  '10,  of  Harwich, 
Massachusetts  passed  away  on  January  31, 
1 974  at  the  age  of  85  following  a  long  illness. 

A  native  of  Greenwich,  Mass.,  hegraduated 
as  a  civil  engineer  from  WPI  in  1910.  After 
graduation  he  spent  two  years  in  Santo 
Domingo  and  Puerto  Rico  on  railroad  surveys 
and  narrow  gauge  work  for  transportation  of 
sugar  cane  from  plantations  to  the  sugar  mill. 
Upon  his  return  to  the  states,  he  spent  30 
years  in  Hartford,  Conn.,  first  with  Architects 
&  Engineers  and  large  construction 
companies. 

Later  he  founded  his  own  building  and  con- 
tracting firm  which  he  headed  for  22  years. 
After  his  retirement,  he  bought  four  old 
houses  in  succession  which  he  restored  while 
living  in  them. 

Mr.  Kelley  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
fraternity. 


38/ August  1974 /WPI  Journal 


PHILIP  C.  FOSTER,  '14,  editor  of  Foster's 
Daily  Democrat,  Dover,  New  Hampshire,  died 
in  Dover  on  February  1 0, 1 974.  He  was  81 . 

He  was  born  in  Dover  on  February  1 9, 1 892 
and  later  studied  at  WPI.  From  1911  to  1913 
and  from  1935  until  his  death,  he  had  served 
as  editor  of  the  Democraf.  He  also  had  been  in 
the  newspaper  business  in  Sheraton,  Wyo- 
ming and  Old  Orchard  Beach,  Maine,  and  in 
the  printing  business  in  Portland.  For  several 
years  he  published  directories  in  Portland 
and  Springfield,  Mass.  During  World  War  II, 
he  was  with  Sylvania  Electric  Co.  in  Dover. 

Mr.  Foster  was  a  trustee  of  the  Woodman 
Institute  in  Dover  and  during  the  last  ten  years 
spent  much  time  rearranging  and 
recataloguing  the  Institute's  displays  and 
records.  He  was  a  director  of  the  United 
Appeals  Drive  and  a  member  of  the  South- 
eastern New  Hampshire  Mineral  Club,  the 
Smithsonian  Associates,  the  Maine  Miner- 
alogical  Society,  and  a  past  president  of 
Typothetae.  He  was  a  life  member  and  former 
president  of  the  Lifelong  Colonists. 


CLINTON  C.  HUBBELL,  '1 4,  of  Norwalk,  Con- 
necticut passed  away  last  winter  at  the  age  of 
84. 

He  was  born  on  November  8,  1889  in 
Wilton,  Conn.  For  many  years  he  served  .as  a 
civil  engineer  and  surveyor  in  Norwalk.  In  the 
1920's  he  developed  the  Hubbell  Marine 
Cooler  which  enabled  Ford  autoengines  to  be 
used  in  boats. 

During  his  career  he  was  associated  with 
the  Connecticut  Co.,  New  Haven;  Goodhue  & 
Hubbell,  Norwalk;  and  Nash  Engineering  Co. 
He  also  served  as  assistant  city  engineer  in 
Norwalk  and  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  France 
during  World  War  I.  He  belonged  to  the  Fair- 
field County  Engineers  Association. 


EDWARD  T.  JONES,  '14,  died  in  Salem,  Ore- 
gon on  January  27, 1974.  He  was  84  years  old. 

Born  on  August  1,  1890  in  North  Adams, 
Mass.,  he  later  graduated  from  WPI  as  a  civil 
engineer.  From  1914  to  1916  he  worked  for 
the  Public  Service  Commission  in  New  York. 
After  a  stint  with  the  New  York  State  Highway 
Dept.,  he  spent  two  years  as  a  lieutenant  in  the 
Corps  of  Engineers  and  saw  duty  with  the 
A.E.F.  in  France  during  World  War  I. 

From  1919  to  1937,  he  was  plant  engineer 
and  then  manager  and  vice  president  of 
Stevens  &  Thompson  Paper  Mill  in  Green- 
wich, N.Y.  He  was  next  associated  with  the 
Brown  Co.,  Berlin,  N.H.,  and  from  1945-57 
was  project  engineer  with  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc., 
Boston,  where  he  specialized  in  paper  mill 
design,  including  plants  in  Mexico  and  Brazil. 
Following  his  retirement  in  1958,  he  devoted 
himself  to  genealogical  research,  producing 
21  volumes  and  monographs. 

Mr.  Jones  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon 
fraternity,  the  Technical  Association  of  the 
Pulp  &  Paper  Industry,  and  ASCE. 


WALTER  E.  SPICER,  '14,  of  North  Palm 
Beach,  Florida,  passed  away  on  March  7, 
1974.  He  was  83. 

He  was  born  in  Boston  on  March  9, 1890.  He 
graduated  from  WPI  as  an  electrical  engineer 
in  1914.  Following  graduation  he  joined 
Worcester  Consolidated  Street  Railroad  Co. 
Later  he  was  with  United  Electric  Light  Co., 
Springfield,  Mass.;  New  England  Power  Co., 
Worcester;  U.S.  Ordnance  Dept.,  Springfield; 
Turner  Falls  Power  Co.,  Westfield;  Ludlow 
(Mass.)  Mfg.  Associates;  and  the  Clark 
Thread  Co.  and  the  Heller  &  Mertz  Co.,  in 
Newark,  N.J.  In  1959  he  was  retired  from  the 
American  Rayon  Corp.,  Elizabethton,  Tenn., 
after  30  years  of  service. 

Mr.  Spicer  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity. 


DWIGHT  E.  ALLEN,  '1 5,  passed  away  on  April 
3, 1 974  in  Bradenton,  Florida.  He  was  82. 

He  was  born  in  Northboro,  Mass.  on  April 
11,  1891  and  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI  in  1915.  From  1918  to  1957  he  was 
employed  as  a  chemical  engineer  by  the 
Carborundum  Co.,  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y. 

In  1963  he  moved  to  Florida  where  for  the 
last  seven  years  he  and  Mrs.  Allen  have  been 
residents  of  Bradenton  Manor,  a  Presbyterian 
retirement  home. 


ALBERT  H.  DERVIN,  '15,  of  North  Canton, 
Ohio,  died  on  April  3, 1974 

Hewas  born  on  October28, 1 893  in  Clinton, 
Mass.  After  studying  civil  engineering  at  WPI, 
he  became  an  assistant  sales  manager  at 
Worcester  Pressed  Steel.  Later  he  was  gen- 
eral sales  manager  at  Canton  (Ohio)  Forge  & 
Axle  Co.  and  district  manager  for  Endicott 
Forging  &  Mfg.  Co.,  Endicott,  N.Y.  He  also 
served  as  a  district  manager  for  Worcester 
Pressed  Steel  Co.  and  Dollin  Corp.,  Irvington, 
N.J. 

Mr.  Dervin  belonged  to  the  Pressed  Metal 
Institute,  Drop  Forging  Institute,  and  Ameri- 
can Die  Casting  Institute. 


CARL  F.  PALMER,  '1 5,  died  January  1 3, 1 974 
in  Lowell,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  in  New  Bedford,  Mass.,  June 
14,  1892  and  received  his  BS  in  electrical 
engineering  from  WPI.  He  was  a  member  of 
old  Delta  Tau  fraternitiy  and  Tau  Beta  Pi  hon- 
orary. In  1915  he  joined  the  electrical  power 
test  section  of  General  Electric, 
Schenectady.  For  many  years  he  was 
engaged  with  the  Locks  and  Canal  System  of 
Lowell,  Mass.  as  chief  engineer,  and  with 
John  A.  Stevens  Consulting  Engineering  of 
Lowell,  Mass.,  in  charge  of  electrical  design. 

In  later  years,  he  was  associated  with  Cen- 
tral Maine  Power  and  Chas.  T.  Main  of 
Boston  specializing  in  power  plant  design,  his 
last  work  involving  the  Niagara  Power  Plant. 
He  was  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Maine,  New  Hampshire,  Massachusetts, 
Rhode  Island,  and  New  York.  In  1961  he 
retired  to  his  farm  in  East  Pittston,  Maine, 
where  he  was  active  in  Maine  Historical 
Society  work. 


PHILIP  N.  COOKE,  '1 6,  retired  vice  president 
of  Norton  Behr-Manning  Overseas,  Inc.,  died 
February  16,  1974  in  Clearwater,  Florida.  He 
was  79. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  In  1916  he 
joined  Norton  as  a  sales  engineer.  From  1920 
until  1946  he  served  as  a  sales  manager  and 
managing  director  of  Norton  Co.  of  Canada, 
Limited.  In  1946  he  returned  to  Worcester  as 
manager  of  theforeigndivisionand  in  1951  he 
was  elected  vice  president  in  charge  of  abra- 
sives products  for  Norton  Behr-Manning 
Overseas,  Inc.  He  retired  in  1953  after  37 
years  with  the  company. 

After  his  retirement  he  moved  to  Florida 
where  he  hel  ped  to  form  the  firm  of  J.  W.  Horn- 
brook,  Inc.,  which  built  luxury  homes  in  the 
Clearwater  area. 

Mr.  Cooke,  a  past  president  of  the  Hamilton, 
Ontario  (Canada)  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
was  the  father  of  Kenneth  G.  Cooke,  '48. 


HAROLD  C.  LEONARD,  '16,  of  Baton  Rouge, 
Louisiana,  died  in  May  of  1 973. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  October  14, 
1 894  and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1916.  In  1919  he  received  his 
MSEE  from  Union  College.  A  naval  veteran  of 
World  War  I,  he  also  was  associated  with  Gen- 
eral Electric  Company  and  the  Submarine 
Boat  Corporation. 

During  his  lifetime  he  was  with  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston  and  Virginia;  served  as 
general  superintendent  of  the  El  Paso  Elec- 
tric Company;  and  worked  for  the  Gulf  States 
Utilities  Company  where  he  retired  as  execu- 
tive vice  president  and  director  in  1 959.  Later 
he  founded  the  Leonard  Agency  (Insurance) 
in  Baton  Rouge. 

Active  in  civic  and  business  activities,  he 
was  president  of  the  United  Givers  Fund  and 
of  the  local  chapter  of  the  Society  of  the 
Advancement  of  Management.  He  helped 
found  the  Baton  Rouge  Port  Development 
Association,  served  as  president  of  the  South- 
eastern Electric  Exchange,  and  received  the 
Andrew  M.  Lockett  Civic  Leadership  Medal 
from  the  Louisiana  Engineering  Society. 


RAYMOND    W.    T.    RICKER,     '16,    of 

Philadelphia,  Pennsylvania  died  on  April  5, 
1974. 

Hewas  born  on  September  21 , 1 895  in  New 
Durham,  N.H.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
chemist,  he  joined  du  Pontde  Nemours  &  Co., 
Wilmington,  Del.  During  World  War  I  he 
served  as  a  lieutenant  aviator  with  the  Signal 
Reserve  Corps  in  France. 

Later  he  was  with  McGraw  Hill  Co.,  New 
York  City;  Hames  Electric  Protection  Co., 
New  York;  and  Brown  Instrument  Company, 
Philadelphia.  He  was  advertising  manager  of 
the  Autogiro  Co.  of  America,  account  execu- 
tive for  Watson  &  Co.,  and  a  member  of  the 
advertising  department  at  Minneapolis- 
Honeywell  Co.,  Philadelphia  upon  his  retire- 
ment in  1960. 

Mr.  Ricker  belonged  to  the  National  Indus- 
trial Advertisers  Association,  Lambda  Chi 
Alpha,  and  Skull. 


WPIJournal/ August  1974/39 


DONALD  T.  CANFIELD,  '19,  of  West  Lafay- 
ette, Indiana,  professor  emeritus  of  electrical 
engineering  at  Purdue  University,  died  on 
February  22, 1974. 

Prof.  Canfield  was  born  in  Brooklyn,  N.Y.  on 
Sept.  25, 1 895.  He  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI,  where  he  belonged  to  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  fraternity.  During  World  War  I 
he  was  a  second  lieutenant  in  the  Air  Corps. 
Later  he  was  with  Jencks  Knitting  Machine 
Co.  From  1921  until  1964  he  served  on  the 
electrical  engineering  staff  at  Purdue  Univer- 
sity. He  also  worked  as  a  consultant  for 
Duncan  Electric  Co.  for  many  years. 

He  belonged  to  Sigma  Xi.Tau  Beta  Pi,  Skull, 
Eta  Kappa  Nu,  and  Scabbard  and  Blade.  A 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Indiana, 
he  also  was  a  member  of  ASEE,  AIEE  and 
NSPE. 


EDGAR  R.  JONES,  '19,  of  Framingham 
Center,  Massachusetts,  died  on  March  21, 
1973. 

He  was  born  on  March  14,  1894  in  North 
Smithfield,  R.I.  After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a 
mechanicalengineer,  hejoined  MohawkCar- 
pet  Mills,  Amsterdam,  N.Y.  He  was  with  the 
Roxbury  Carpet  Co.,  Saxonville,  Mass.  from 
1927  until  1942  and  from  1947  until  1960 
when  he  retired  as  chief  plant  engineer.  From 
1 942  until  1 947  he  was  employed  by  Jones  & 
Lamson,  Springfield,  Vt. 

During  World  War  II,  while  with  Jones  & 
Lamson,  he  was  associated  with  the  Office  of 
Scientific  Research  and  Development- 
National  Defense  Research  Committee, 
Washington,  D.C.  He  worked  on  a  secret 
project  (which  was  also  being  undertaken  by 
Canada  and  England)  to  help  develop  a  pro- 
jectile that  would  pierce  a  9V2  inch  steel  plate 
at  a  45°  angle  and  be  capable  of  blowing  up  a 
German  tank.  He  designed  and  set  up  a  range 
that  was  reportedly  one  of  the  best  in  the 
country.  The  project  was  a  success  and  he 
was  awarded  a  certificate  in  appreciation  of 
exceptional  service. 

After  retiring  in  1 960,  Mr.  Jones,  who  was  a 
registered  professional  engineer,  became  a 
self-employed  consultant.  He  was  a  member 
of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa. 


PAUL  M.  ABBOTT,  '20,  died  on  January  4, 
1 974  in  Boca  Raton,  Florida. 

He  was  born  on  August  16,  1897  in  Terre 
Haute,  Ind.  After  graduating  from  WPI,  he 
worked  for  a  while  as  a  general  electrician.  He 
then  became  advertising  manager  for  Motion 
Picture  News.  For  two  years  he  was  with 
McGraw  Hill  Publishing  Co.  in  the  New 
England  area.  In  1 932  he  became  a  partner  in 
Sutherland-Abbott  Advertising  Agency, 
Boston,  Mass. 

Mr.  Abbott  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
fraternity. 


AUGUSTUS  L.  DUTTON,  '21,  died  on  Febru- 
ary 28,  1974  in  Winchester,  Massachusetts. 
He  was  76  years  old. 

He  was  born  on  September22, 1 897  in  Low- 
ell, Mass.  After  studying  electrical  engineer- 
ing at  WPI,  he  went  on  to  Lowell  Institute  and 
MIT.  Later  he  was  with  Lowell  Electric  Light 
Co.  and  Walter  B.  Foster  Co. .Hingham,  Mass. 
For  38  years  he  was  employed  as  a  profes- 
sional engineer  at  Boston  Edison.  He  retired 
in  1962. 

Active  in  Masonic  circles,  Mr.  Dutton  was 
also  a  former  director  of  the  Reading  (Mass.) 
Red  Cross  and  past  president  of  the 
Wakefield  Retired  Men's  Club.  He  was  a  life 
member  of  the  National  Heating  Association. 


LESTER  S.  EASTMAN,  '22,  died  at  his  home 
in  Lancaster,  Pennsylvania  on  April  23, 1974. 
He  was  74  years  old. 

In  1964  he  retired  as  sales  representative 
for  Norton  Co.  (Worcester)  in  its  Eastern 
Pennsylvania  Division. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  August  1,  1899,  he 
graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from  WPI  in 
1 922.  After  graduation  he  was  a  construction 
engineer  for  the  City  of  Worcester  for  three 
years.  From  1925  until  1964  he  was  associ- 
ated with  Norton  Co. 

Mr.  Eastman  belonged  to  the  Worcester 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and  ASTME. 


HALSEY  A.  GALLUP,  '23,  of  Norwich,  Con- 
necticut died  March  25, 1974  at  the  age  of  73. 

A  retired  teller  of  the  Hartford  National  Bank 
&  Trust  Co.,  Norwich,  he  was  also  a  former 
trustee  and  Treasurer  of  the  Otis  Library  and 
treasurer  of  the  Gallup  Family  Association. 

A  Norwich  native,  he  was  later  a  student  at 
WPI.  During  World  War  II  he  served  in  the  U.S. 
Air  Force. 


RANDOLPH  A.  HOLTON,  '25,  of  Worcester 
passed  away  suddenly  on  January  1 2, 1 974. 
He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  May  9,  1 902, 
later  becoming  a  student  at  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  owner  and  manager  of  R.  A. 
Holton  Co.,  Worcester.  He  had  also  worked 
for  the  New  York,  New  Haven  &  Hartford 
Railroad. 


RUSSELL  F.  BARKER,  '26,  passed  away  on 
December  18,  1973  in  Atlantic  City,  New 
Jersey  at  the  age  of  69. 

He  was  born  in  Leominster,  Mass.  On  July 
10,  1904  and  graduated  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was 
with  Sullivan  Machinery  Co.,  Armstrong  Cork 
Co.,  Atlantic  Sewerage  Co.,  Philadelphia 
Storage  Battery  Co.,  Day  &  Zimmerman  (con- 
sulting engineers),  Campbell  Soup  Co., 
Wright  Aeronautical  Corp.,  and  E.  R.  Squibb  & 
Sons.  For  1 7  years  he  was  associated  with  the 
Continental  Can  Co.  of  Wilmington,  Del.  and 
he  later  joined  the  Public  Housing  Authorities 
of  Pleasantville  and  Atlantic  City. 

Mr.  Barker,  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  belonged  to  the  Delaware  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers,  and  was  a  past  presi- 
dent and  charter  member  of  the  Delaware 
Chapter  of  the  American  Institute  of  Plant 
Engineers.  He  also  belonged  to  the  South 
Jersey  Chapter  of  AIPE,  the  executive  board 
of  the  New  Jersey  Society  of  the  Sons  of  the 
American  Revolution,  the  Huguenot  Society 
of  New  Jersey,  the  Descendants  of  the  Colo- 
nial Governors,  and  the  Atlantic  County  His- 
torical Society.  He  was  a  past  secretary  of  the 
Philadelphia  chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni 
Association. 


HOSMER  R.  KIMBALL.  "19,  of  East  Boothbay, 
Maine,  died  on  February  8,  1974. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  19,  1898  in  Jersey 
City,  N.J.  In  1919  he  graduated  with  a  BSEE 
from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was  with  Gen- 
eral Electric,  Fort  Wayne,  Ind.;  Forbes  & 
Meyers  in  Worcester;  B.  F.  Sturtevant  Com- 
pany. Hyde  Park;  Sundh  Electric  Co.,  and  the 
Clark  Controller  Company  of  Cleveland, 
where  he  served  as  New  England  manager 
and  district  manager  for  many  years.  In  1955 
he  became  a  self-employed  manufacturers' 
agent  with  his  own  firm,  Hosmer  R.  Kimball, 
Inc 


CARLETON  S.  PERKINS,  '22,  passed  away 
on  February  19,  1974  in  Hyannis,  Massachu- 
setts. He  was  73  years  old. 

A  native  of  Boston,  he  later  became  a  stu- 
dent at  WPI.  During  his  career,  he  was  with 
Electrical  Research  Products  (a  subsidiary  of 
Western  Electric  Co.);  and  Altec'selectronics 
Division,  which  during  World  War  II  assem- 
bled, tested,  and  installed  highly  complex 
gunnery  training  devices.  In  1962  he  retired 
as  vice  president  and  general  manager  of 
Altec's  electronics  Division. 

Mr.  Perkins  was  a  former  town  official  in 
Plymouth,  Mass.,  where  he  served  as  a 
member  of  the  Finance  Committee,  chairman 
of  the  Water  Commission,  and  a  member  of 
the  Sewage  Treatment  Construction  Com- 
mittee. Later  he  was  a  member  of  the 
Yarmouthport  Finance  Committee  and  the 
chairman  of  the  Capital  Outlay  Committee, 
which  he  organized. 


WILBERT  T.  MOORE,  '26,  founder  of  Moore 
Survey  &  Mapping,  Shrewsbury,  Massachu- 
setts, died  on  April  22, 1974  in  Worcester.  He 
was  69. 

Until  his  retirement  in  1970  he  was 
chairman  of  the  board  of  directors  of  the  com- 
pany. A  registered  professional  engineer  and 
land  surveyor,  he  was  also  a  member  of  the 
American  Congress  on  Surveying  and 
Mapping  and  a  past  president  of  the  Central 
Massachusetts  Region  of  Massachusetts 
Association  of  Land  Surveyors  and  Civil 
Engineers. 

He  was  born  in  Huntington,  Mass.  on 
September  8,  1 904.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he 
worked  as  an  engineer  with  the  Massachu- 
setts Department  of  Public  Works  for  20 
years. 


40      jgusl1974   WPI  Journal 


In  1946  he  founded  W.  T.  Moore  &  Son, 
which  later  became  Moore  Mapping  &  Survey 
Corp.  From  1951  to  1959  he  took  leaves  of 
absence  to  direct  survey  work  at  U.S.  Air 
Force  bases  in  Greenland  and  Spain  for  the 
consulting  firm  of  Metcalf  &  Eddy,  Boston. 

Mr.  Moore  belonged  to  the  Worcester 
Society  of  Civil  Engineers. 


LESLIE  T.  MILLER,  '29,  of  Baltimore,  Mary- 
land passed  away  on  December  30, 1 973. 

He  was  born  on  August  9,  1908  at  Towns- 
end,  Mass.  In  1929  he  received  his  mechani- 
cal engineering  degree  from  WPI.  He  was 
employed  by  the  Wright  Aeronautical  Corp., 
Paterson,  N.J.,  and  the  Glenn  L.  Martin  Co.  in 
Baltimore,  where  he  served  as  a  power  plant 
engineer.  For  a  number  of  years  he  was  an 
executive  assistant  at  Johns  Hopkins  Univer- 
sity, Baltimore.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi  and 
Sigma  Xi. 


CLYDE  K.  CARPENTER,  '30,  of  Beach 
Haven,  New  Jersey  died  last  August. 

He  was  born  on  October  17,  1906  at 
Norwich,  Conn,  and  later  studied  civil  engi- 
neering at  WPI.  For  over  30  years  he  worked 
for  Western  Electric  Co.,  Kearny,  N.J.,  where 
he  served  as  department  chief  of  industrial 
engineering.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi 
fraternity. 


WARREN  R.  PURCELL,  '30,  a  Raytheon  offi- 
cial and  a  former  instructor  in  physics  at  WPI, 
died  February  3, 1 974  in  Newton  Falls,  Massa- 
chusetts. He  was  64. 

Born  on  July  30, 1909  in  Woonsocket,  R.I., 
he  later  graduated  from  WPI  with  a  BS  in  elec- 
trical engineering.  While  studying  for  his  mas- 
ter'sdegreein  physics  atWPl.heserved  as  an 
instructor. 

Early  in  his  career  he  was  associated  with 
Westinghouse  Corp.  and  the  Aetna  and  New 
York  Life  Insurance  companies.  Later  he  was 
the  manager  of  quality  control  of  the  lighting 
division  of  the  Sylvania  Corp.  plant  in  Dan- 
vers,  Mass.;  director  of  quality  control  at 
Brown  Co.,  Berlin,  N.H.;andastaff  consultant 
of  Rath  and  Strong,  Boston.  At  the  time  of  his 
death  he  was  a  corporate  director  of  quality 
assurance  at  Raytheon  Corp.,  Lexington, 
Mass.  Previously  he  had  been  a  quality  con- 
trol manager  of  the  Raytheon  plant  in  Lowell. 

Mr.  Purcell,  a  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon,  was  a  fellow  of  the  American  Society 
of  Quality  Control  and  had  served  as  director 
and  vice  president  of  the  society.  He  was  a 
founding  member  and  first  chairman  of  the 
Boston  Chapter  of  the  society.  The  author  of 
many  articles  on  quality  control,  he  also  had 
been  on  the  staff  of  the  department  of  contin- 
uing education  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut for  25  years. 


HAROLD  T.  CUTLER,  '31,  died  suddenly  in 
Washington,D.C.onMay4,1974.Hewas65. 

A  native  of  Fitchburg,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
as  an  electrical  engineer  from  WPI  in  1931. 
From  1933  until  1964  he  was  employed  by  the 
Chesapeake  and  Potomac  Telephone  Co.  in 
Bethesda,  Md.  During  his  career  he  served  as 
outside  repairman,  central  office  repairman, 
test  man,  and  service  engineer.  In  1964  he 
retired  as  commercial  representative. 

Mr.  Cutler,  who  was  past  president  of  the 
Washington,  D.C.  chapter  of  theAlumni  Asso- 
ciation, was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega 
fraternity. 


The  Reverend  WALKER  T.  HAWLEY,  '31, 

died  on  March  20,  1974  in  Brattleboro, 
Vermont  at  the  age  of  65. 

Last  February  he  retired  as  executive  sec- 
retary of  the  Boston-based  Board  of  Pastoral 
Supply  of  the  United  Church  of  Christ,  a  posi- 
tion which  he  had  held  since  1 968. 

He  was  born  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  on  June  10, 
1908.  In  1931  he  graduated  from  WPI  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  and  in  1934  he  gradu- 
ated from  Andover  Newton  Theological  Semi- 
nary. Prior  to  his  latest  position,  he  had  served 
as  pastor  at  Congregational  or  Federated 
churches  in  Dummerston,  Greensboro,  Man- 
chester, and  Middlebury,  Vt. 

Rev.  Hawley  was  a  past  trustee  of  Burr  and 
Burton  Seminary,  Manchester,  Vt.;  past 
director  of  Otter  Valley  Special  School, 
Middlebury;  and  past  chairman  of  the  Camp 
Commission  for  the  Vermont  Congregational 
Conference. 

A  member  of  Theta  Chi  fraternity,  he  was 
the  brother  of  C.  Freeman  Hawley,  '23;  the 
uncle  of  Bradford  F.  Hawley,  '51;  and  the 
cousin  of  Frederick  H.  Knight,  '28. 


ALBERT  J.  MAGEE,  '33,  passed  away  on 
June  26, 1 973  in  Worcester. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  August  8, 
1912.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  received  his 
BSCE  from  Northeastern  University.  The 
major  portion  of  his  career  he  served  as  a  lead 
field  engineer  for  the  foundation  consultants, 
Mueser,  Rutledge,  Wentworth  &  Johnston  of 
New  York  City.  Larger  projects  included: 
Albany  Mall,  Denver  Mall,  a  Columbia  River 
bridge  (early  60's),  and  some  assignments  at 
Cape  Kennedy  and  Wyman-Gordon  (massive 
press  foundations). 

Mr.  Magee,  who  was  a  founder  of  the 
Auburn  (Mass.)  Sportsman's  Club  and  an 
army  veteran  of  World  War  II  (New  Guinea), 
was  the  brother  of  John  E.  Magee,  '33. 


P.  ERNEST  SALMINEN,  '35,  died  in  Worces- 
ter on  February  20, 1 974  at  the  age  of  61 . 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  and  studied  at 
WPI.  For  37  years  he  was  a  project  engineer  at 
Morgan  Construction  Co. 

Mr.  Salminen  was  a  former  chairman  of  the 
Leicester  (Mass.)  Recreation  Committee.  He 
belonged  to  the  Worcester  Engineering 
Society. 


ELWYN  A.  MURDOCK,  '36,  died  of  a  heart 
seizure  on  May  3,  1974  in  Hamden  Con- 
necticut after  he  and  his  wife  were  held  at 
gunpoint  during  a  robbery  at  their  home- 
operated  antique  shop. 

Police  have  been  seeking  their  last  evening 
customer,  a  well-dressed  man  in  his  30's,  who 
forced  the  couple  into  the  basement  where  he 
tied  them  up  and  handcuffed  them  to  chairs. 
Shortly  after  being  bound,  Mr.  Murdock 
suffered  the  seizure.  He  died  later  after  his 
wife  freed  herself  and  both  were  taken  to  the 
Yale-New  Haven  Hospital. 

He  was  born  on  May  1 , 1 91 4  in  New  Haven, 
Conn.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  became  asso- 
ciated with  the  C.W.  Murdock  Co.  as  a  civil 
engineer  and  later  became  owner  of  the  com- 
pany. Hewasalsoan  appraiser  and  insurance 
adjustor  and  had  been  employed  by  the  Leo 
Bronson  Co. 


ROBERT  S.  DENNING,  '37,  passed  away  on 
March  2,  1974  in  Hartford,  Connecticut.  He 
was  60  years  old. 

He  was  born  in  Worcester  on  June  28, 1 91 3. 
After  attending  WPI,  he  became  the  inventory 
manager  at  Webber  Lumber  &  Supply  Co., 
Fitchburg,  Mass.  During  World  War  II  he 
served  as  a  captain  in  the  U.S.  Army.  Later  he 
was  branch  manager  of  the  Manchester 
(Conn.)  warehouse  of  Gregg  &  Son,  Framing- 
ham,  Mass.  At  the  time  of  his  death  he  was 
assistant  manager  of  Brewster  Lumber  Co., 
Hartford. 


STANLEY  L.  HYMAN,  '37,  of  New  York  City 
passed  away  on  December  2,  1973.  He  was 
58. 

A  native  of  New  York  City,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1937  as  an  electrical  engineer. 
During  his  career,  he  was  associated  with 
Westinghouse  Electric  &  Mfg.;  served  as  a  Lt. 
Commander  in  the  U  .S.  Navy;  and  worked  as  a 
manufacturers'  representative.  At  the  time  of 
his  death ,  he  was  vice  president  of  Safety  First 
Products  Corp.,  Elmsford,  N.Y.  He  was  a 
member  of  the  National  Fire  Protection 
Association. 


JOHN  M.  GRAY,  '38,  of  Sea  Cliff,  New  York, 
passed  away  on  July  28, 1973. 

Born  on  August  10,  1907,  he  later  studied 
electrical  engineering  at  WPI.  He  was  presi- 
dent of  the  Aircrib  Corp.,  Sea  Cliff,  N.Y. ,afirm 
which  produced  the  Skinner  Baby  Box,  a 
partly  soundproof  plexiglas-enclosed 
chamber  used  for  isolating  babies  up  to  two 
years  of  age. 


WPI  Journal /August  1974/41 


Forging  for  the 
new  generation  of 
turbine  engines 


Wyman  Gordons  mechanical/metallurgical  skills 
have  allowed  designers  and  fabricators  to  stretch 
the  level  of  turbine  technology— on  land,  on  the  sea 
and  in  the  air. 

Wyman  Gordon  will  be  producing  the  super- 
strength  and  supersize  forgings  needed  as  land- 
based  gas  turbines  take  the  next  giant  step  into 
their  "new  generation." 


issued      #<       U)P1Z 


rr       ix  i  J  c^r  <p  xo.4u aU^ 


OCTOBER  1974 


^ 


^ 


F/y  SS/ 


€ 


€M 


Nuclear  energy 

The  promise  and  the  problems 


mppMjmfflJ 


Vol.78,  No.  3 


October  1974 


3  On  the  hill 

4  Feedback 

5  Intersession 

7  SPECIAL  SECTION:  Nuclear  energy  —  the  promise  and  the  problems 

8  Yes,  Virginia,  nuclear  power  plants  do  affect  the  environment 

Dr.  Morton  I.  Goldman  examines  the  overall  impact  of  nuclear  power 
plants  on  the  environment  —  and  then  compares  the  corresponding 
impact  of  fossil-fueled  plants  in  this  energy-scarce  age.  . 

14      Nuclear  reactors  —  safe  or  not? 

A  leading  nuclear  engineer,  Dr.  Norman  Rasmussen  looks  at  the  safety 
issues. 

20      Power  Production  and  the  public  interest?  What's  that? 

Myron  Cherry,  a  leading  citizen  action  lawyer  proposes  a  major 
restructuring  of  the  federal  power  regulatory  agencies  to  ensure  pub- 
lic participation  in  the  decision-making  processes. 

26      Your  class  and  others 

39      Completed  careers 


iitor:  H.Russell  Kay 

umni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Jblications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
.,  '51 ,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56;  Rob- 
t  C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22; 
oger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I. 
vanson,  '45 

dsign. H.Russell  Kay 

'pography:  Typesetting  Service,  Provi- 
.  snce,  Rhode  Island 

inting:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
assachusetts 

idress  all  correspondence  regarding  edi- 
'  'ial  content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 


WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  61 7-753-1 411). 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Copyright  ©  1 974  by  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  and  April.  Second  Class  postage 
paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Posf- 
master:  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alumni 
Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  W.  A. 
Julian,  '49 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B. 
E.  Hosmer,  '61 ;  D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M. 
McNamara,  '55;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.  H.  White,  '41 ;  G.  A.  Anderson,  '51 ;  H.  I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J. 
Maguire,  '66 


^  F 


A 


I 


**'  ^F^v 


Hk 


by  the  editor 


New  faculty 


With  the  beginning  of  a  new  year,  the 
campus  seems  to  abound  in  new  stu- 
dents. This  year  WPI  also  has  an  espe- 
cially heavy  influx  of  new  faculty  blood. 
There  are  1 9  new  members  this  year ,  out 
of  a  total  of  1 73  full-time  teaching  fac- 
ulty. This  1 1  percent  change  is  almost 
three  times  the  turnover  a  year  ago. 

Vice  President  and  Dean  of  Faculty 
Ray  Bolz  attributes  the  large  change  to 
several  factors.  "There  were  five  retire- 
ments, an  unusually  high  number.  Two 
of  the  faculty  who  left  had  only  tempo- 
rary appointments,  and  three  more  were 
accounted  for  in  the  Military  Science 
department  —  they,  of  course,  are  rotated 
by  the  Army.  In  addition,  several  of  our 
people  had  extremely  attractive  outside 
offers." 


Musical  offices 

To  an  outside  observer  it  may  very  well 
have  seemed  that  the  WPI  adminis- 
trative staff  who  inhabit  Boynton  Hall 
were  playing  some  crazy  sort  of  game 
this  summer  in  which  people  and  furni- 
ture were  shuffled  around  from  room  to 
room. 

All  told,  more  than  twenty  people 
were  shifted  as  Boynton  Hall  creaked 
and  groaned  and  managed  to  accom- 
modate a  few  extra  people  and  office 
spaces. 

One  of  the  major  undertakings 
involved  enlarging  the  Admissions  area 
to  include  a  bigger  waiting  room,  a  spe- 
cial room  for  audiovisual  presentations, 
a  conference  room,  and  an  office  for 
Financial  Aid  Director  Edgar  F. 
Heselbarth. 


The  space  that  Admissions  got  was 
taken  from  Business  Affairs,  as  Con- 
troller William  Barrett  moved  over  to 
what  used  to  be  the  Information  Office 
and  Vice  President  David  E.  Lloyd 
moved  up  to  the  third  floor,  taking  what 
used  to  house  the  offices  of  the  Worcester 
Consortium  for  Higher  Education  (now 
located  downtown). 

The  Registrar's  Office,  bursting  to  the 
seams,  was  "enlarged"  by  removing  the 
inside  counter  and  building  a  shelf  along 
the  corridor  wall  below  a  window  for 
counter  service. 

On  the  second  floor,  Academic  Advis- 
ing Dean  John  van  Alstyne  moved  over 
two  spaces.  His  old  office  was  given  to 
yours  truly,  and  the  scheduling  office  to 
University  Relations,  which  reshuffled 
many  of  its  office  assignments  to  consoli- 
date a  staff  which  had  grown  with  the 
addition  of  several  part-time  people  dur- 
ing the  past  year. 

All  in  all,  it  was  a  hectic  summer. 
When  you  went  away  on  vacation  you 
didn't  know  quite  what  to  expect  when 
you  got  back.  Blank  walls  suddenly  had 
doors  in  them;  walls  and  partitions 
moved  and  disappeared.  But  now  it's 
over  for  a  few  years. ...  in  Boynton. 
Gome  December,  though,  and  a  much 
bigger  moving  job  begins  when  Salis- 
bury Laboratories,  possibly  the  busiest 
single  building  on  campus,  will  be 
vacated  so  that  it  can  be  gutted  and  the 
insides  rebuilt. 

Four  departments  (Management 
Engineering,  Computer  Science,  Life 
Sciences,  and  Humanities)  will  have  to 
relocate  in  new  homes  for  a  year  or  two. 

WPI  publications 
receive  awards 

Four  WPI  publications  have  won  awards 
in  recent  national  competitions.  The 
announcement  poster  for  the  WPI  Plan 
to  Restore  the  Balance  was  cited  by  the 
American  Institute  of  Graphic  Arts  and 
by  the  American  College  Public  Rela- 
tions Association.  One  of  its  companion 
pieces,  a  12-page  booklet  entitled  "The 
Learning  Environment"  also  received 
ACPRA  recognition. 


The  unique,  two-sided  1973-74  Spec- 
trum poster  won  a  silver  medal  from  the 
Art  Director's  Club  of  Boston  and  an 
award  from  the  American  Alumni  Coun- 
cil. The  AAC  also  cited  the  letterhead  of 
the  Annual  Alumni  Fund  for  special 
merit. 

Alumni  trustee 
nominations  open 

For  approximately  fifty  years,  the  Board 
of  Trustees  of  WPI  has  granted  to  the 
Alumni  Association  the  privilege  of  rec- 
ommending to  the  Board  three  candi- 
dates per  year  for  Alumni  Term  Trustee 
positions.  Thus  there  are  always  fifteen 
alumni  members  of  the  Board  who  serve 
for  a  term  of  five  years  and  may  be  re- 
elected once.  It  is  one  of  the  largest  per- 
centages of  alumni  on  the  Board  of 
Trustees  among  colleges  of  comparable 
size  in  the  country. 

For  the  past  three  years  the  By-Laws 
of  the  WPI  Alumni  Association  have 
provided  for  a  Trustee  Search  Com- 
mittee which  is  charged  with  the  respon- 
sibility of  recommending  annually  to  the 
Alumni  Council  the  name  of  at  least  one 
alumnus  for  each  alumni  vacancy  which 
exists  on  the  WPI  Board  of  Trustees. 
The  committee  is  composed  of  five 
members  representing  five  decades  of 
alumni.  The  Alumni  Council  each  May 
nominates  a  candidate  for  each  of  the 
three  positions  and  forwards  these  nomi- 
nations to  the  Board  itself  for  election. 

In  June  1975,  Thomas  B.  Graham, 
'38,  Lincoln  Thompson  '21,  and  Daniel 
F.  O'Grady,  '30  will  be  completing  then- 
five  year  terms  on  the  Board.  Only  Mr. 
Graham  is  eligible  for  re-election,  for 
Mr.  Thompson  and  Mr.  O'Grady  have 
completed  two  consecutive  five  year 
terms  and  are  now  ineligible  according  to 
the  By-Laws. 

The  By-Laws  provide  that  there  are 
two  distinct  ways  in  which  alumni  may 
participate  in  the  selection  of  alumni 
members  of  the  Board  of  Trustees.  First 
is  the  actual  proposal  of  an  alumnus  to 
the  Alumni  Council  through  the  sub- 
mission of  a  signed  proposal.  The 
mechanics  of  proposal  are  threefold. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1974/3 


Alumni  chapters  may  propose  candi- 
dates to  the  Council  by  submitting  a 
signed  proposal  of  fifteen  signatures  or 
more,  together  with  a  statement  by  the 
candidate  of  his  willingness  to  serve,  to 
the  Trustee  Search  Committee.  A  sec- 
ond method  is  for  any  group  of  at  least  25 
alumni  to  propose  a  candidate  by  sub- 
mitting a  signed  proposal,  together  with 
a  statement  by  the  candidate  of  his  will- 
ingness to  serve,  to  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee.  For  1975  these  proposals 
must  be  received  by  the  Trustee  Search 
Committee  in  care  of  the  Secretary- 
Treasurer  of  the  Alumni  Association  on 
or  before  Wednesday,  November  1 3, 
1974. 

The  second  method  for  alumni  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  Trustee  selection  process 
is  by  suggesting  names  of  alumni  directly 
to  the  Trustee  Search  Committee  for 
consideration.  Each  year  this  is  a  signifi- 
cant input  of  new  names  to  the  com- 
mittee from  which  point  they  are 
researched  and  involved  by  the  com- 
mittee as  it  is  deemed  appropriate.  It  is 
the  hope  of  the  committee  that  a  large 
reservoir  of  potential  candidates  who 
would  be  honored  by  this  consideration 
can  be  maintained.  Please  contact  any 


member  of  the  Committee  with  such 
names  or  submit  the  names  to  Stephen  J. 
Hebert  '66,  Alumni  Secretary-Trea- 
surer, c/o  WPI  Alumni  Office. 

The  third  method  is  for  the  Trustee 
Search  Committee  itself,  which  has  the 
responsibility  of  assuring  that  there  is  at 
least  one  candidate  for  each  position. 

Formal  notice  is  hereby  given  that 
petitions  for  proposing  alumni  for  posi- 
tions on  the  Board  of  Trustees  are  now 
being  received  and  may  be  received  by 
the  Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer  on  or 
before  Wednesday,  November  15, 1974. 
Sample  forms  for  the  proposal  of  candi- 
dates are  available  upon  request  from  the 
Alumni  Secretary-Treasurer. 

The  Committee  thanks  all  alumni  of 
WPI  for  their  interest  and  involvement 
in  this  most  important  area  which  pro- 
vides for  the  best  possible  members  to  be 
elected  to  the  Board  of  Trustees  of  their 
Alma  Mater.  The  Committee  for  the 
1974-75  year  is  composed  of  C.  Eugene 
Center,  '30,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.,  Chairman; 
Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37,  Worcester, 
Mass.;  William  A.  Julian,  '49,  McLean, 
Va.;  Paul  W.  Bayliss,  '60,  Pennington, 
N  J.;  and  William  J.  Hakkinen,  '70,  Led- 
yard,  Conn. 


Letters  to  the  editor  are  welcome.  All  points  i 
view  can  find  a  forum  in  this  section,  and  w 
encourage  the  free  exchange  of  ideas  ar 
opinions  here.  For  reasons  of  space,  variet 
timeliness,  and  interest  to  other  readers,  w 
may  not  publish  all  letters  received  and  w 
occasionally  use  portions  of  letters,  but  thoi 
that  do  appear  here  are  an  accurate  reflectic 
of  the  Journal's  mail. 

Completed  Careers 
too  heavy  on  careers 

Could  Completed  Careers  be  modified 
so  that  we  are  saying  our  graduates  were 
more  than  job  oriented?  Surely  these 
men  and  women  married,  had  families 
hobbies,  and  outside  interests.  Surely  th 
record  of  their  life  is  not  only  the  posi- 
tions they  have  held! 

Prof.  Betty  B.  Hoskins 
WPI  Life  Sciences 


"From  the  Titanic  to  the  Thresher,"  the  announcement  read,  "man  has  constructed  great 
nautical  masterpieces  of  obvious  seaworthiness."  With  that,  the  Create-a-Faire  Committee 
from  the  interactive  project  center  launched  The  Great  Boat  Race.  Held  in  Washburn  on 
September  1 9,  the  competition  was  "to  construct  and  sail  a  uniquely  designed  aquatic  vehicle, 
size  restricted  to  less  than  1  Vt  feet  in  length."  All  materials  were  supplied  by  the  committee, 
including  styrofoam,  pipe  cleaners,  pill  bottles,  potato  chips  (do  you  suppose  this  was  meant  as 
a  construction  material?),  balloons,  marbles,  lead,  and  "large  body  of  water." 

About  25  students  showed  up  to  compete  for  prizes,  consisting  of  playdough  and  lifesavers, 
awarded  for  Grand  Design,  Most  Aesthetic,  Cleverest,  Fastest  (with  wind-power  and  non-wind 
categories).  Most  Absurd,  and  Biggest  Dud 

4      'Jctober  19/4     WPI  Journal 


Energetic  applause 

I  wanted  to  take  a  few  minutes  to  tell  yot 
how  much  I  enjoyed  the  "Energy"  arti- 
cles in  the  August  1974  issue.  I  usually 
read  "Your  Class  and  Others,"  "Com- 
pleted Careers,"  and  after  scanning  the 
major  content  toss  the  Journal  into  the 
basket. 

However,  this  month  I  read  the  arti- 
cles by  Dr.  Teller  and  Dr.  Glaser  with 
interest.  They  were  current,  right  to  th 
point,  and  of  interest  to  everyone.  In  lac 
I  would  like  your  permission  to  distrib- 
ute copies  to  the  Science  Department 
Heads  of  the  Worcester  Public  School 
System. 

Richard  G.  Bedard,  '57 
Worcester,  Mass. 

The  August  issue  was  a  great  issue.  Th 
two  articles  on  energy  were  good  and  I 
am  looking  forward  to  the  next  issue. 

I  would  appreciate  receiving  fromyoi 
two  more  copies  of  this  issue  for  use  wit! 
associates  in  our  electric  utility. 

William  E.  Eaton,  '38 
Eugene,  Oregon 


INTERSESSION 


Intercession  —  that  joyous  experience  in 
diversity  you  have  come  to  know  and  look 
forward  to  each  year  —  will  return  to 
campus  January  6-17  for  a  two-week  run. 
Once  again,  WPI  will  offer  to  students, 
alumni  and  the  community  at  large  a  wide 
variety  of  courses  to  further  their  profes- 
sional competence,  advance  their 
avocational  interests,  offer  intellectual 
enrichment,  provide  personal  enjoyment 
and,  perhaps  most  importantly,  get  to 
know  one  another. 

The  list  here  is  representative  of  the  total 
offerings  for  Intersession  '75  and  repre- 
sents approximately  one-third  the  total 
number  of  courses  to  be  given.  Your 
inquiry  is  invited  and  your  participation 
hoped  for.  For  further  information,  contact 
the  Director  of  Continuing  Education, 
Boynton  Hall  310J,  WPI,  Worcester  01609. 

Schedule 

The  schedule  for  Intersession  1975  is  as  follows: 
Session  A     January    6-8     (M,Tu,W) 
Session  B      January    9-14     (Th,  F,  M,  Tu) 
Session  C      January  15  -17     (W,  Th,  F) 

Registration 

Visit,  phone,  or  write  the  Office  of  Continuing  Education 
(Boynton  Hall  310)  to  register  for  Intersession.  Some  courses  have 
low  population  limits  so  early  registration  is  encouraged.  Regis- 
tration will  not  be  considered  complete  until  the  total  fee  has  been 
received.  Tuition  rates  are  as  follows: 
$115  -  Regular 

95  -  Regular  early  registrant  (on  or  before  December  20) 
80  -  Alumni,  WPI  evening  students  and  parents  of  WPI 

students 
30  -  Courses  printed  in  bold-face  (darker)  type 
450  -  Group  rate  for  6  people  (if  registered  on  or  before 
December  20) 


ABC504 

Scanning  Electron  Microscopy  in  Biology 

BC517 

Using  the  IBM  Scientific  Subroutine  Package  (SSP): 

Programming  and  Mathematical  Aspects 

B518,  C518 

Introduction  to  Wines 

A527 

The  Elements  of  Programming  Style 

A528 

Micro-Computer  Applications 

A529 

Engineering  Economy 

A531 

Audio  Amplifier  Design 

A533 

Human  Engineering 

A534 

Metric  Workshop 

A539  . 

The  American  Indian  in  Literature 

A545 

Mathematical  Models  in  the  Social  Sciences 

A547 

The  Pianoforte-Its  Care  and  Maintenance 

A550 

Astronomy 

A552 

Superconductivity 

A554 

Ballroom  Dancing  1 

A565 

Data  Base:  Concepts,  Design  and  Management 

B528 

Astrology 

B529 

Occult  Religions  and  Psychic  Phenomena 

B531 

The  Political  Economics  of  Energy 

B532 

Investment  Philosophy 

B535 

Introduction  to  Loudspeaker  System  Design 

B536 

Scanning  Electron  Microscopy 

B537 

Solar  Energy 

B538 

Environmental  Measurements 

B542 

On  Reading  Joyce's  Ulysses 

B546 

Rock  Hounding 

B548 

1  Corinthians 

B554 

The  Art  of  Near  and  Middle  Eastern  Dance 

C527 

Introduction  to  the  PDP-10  for  Non-Computer  Scientists 

C528 

Introductory  Analog  Computer  Programming 

C529 

Accounting  for  Managers 

C530 

Income  Tax  Preparation  for  Individuals 

C531 

Survey  of  Everyday  Law 

C533 

Building  Design  for  Fire  Safety 

C534 

The  Synthesis  of  Design 

C541 

Survey  of  Biomedical  Engineering 

C544 

Operation  Logistics 

C545 

Ethics  and  Technology 

C546 

Celestial  Navigation 

C547 

Neutron  Activation  Analysis 

C549 

Introductory  Photoelasticity 

C550 

Practical  Astronomy 

C552 

The  Ancient  Art  of  Backgammon 

C557 

Heredity  and  Environment— the  Jensen  Controversy 

Special 

AEC  Citizens  Workshop  on  Energy-3-hour  workshop  to 

be  presented  several  times  during  Intersession  at  no  cost 
to  participants. 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974/5 


**•  J* 


^^ 

^k^^fl 

iSSIb 

I^IFII 

adU      rV^S^I                 ^vb^«  m* 

Tim  '  i  **  1 

■B*       1 

gHHBptttf! 


Kffl 


felwi 


my 


III 


1 


.»•  ><• 


Nuclear  energy  — 

the  promise  and  the  problems 


TTiE  ENERGY  SITUATION  contin- 
ues to  be  a  major  problem  for  the 
United  States.  Project  Independence,  the 
announced  national  goal  of  becoming 
energy  self-sufficient  by  1983,  has  caused 
considerable  debate.  Many  knowledgeable 
people  doubt  that  this  goal  can  be  achieved; 
if  it  can  it  appears  that  we  will  require  a 
massive  commitment  to  the  generation  of 
electrical  power  by  nuclear  reactors. 

This  is  a  sensitive  subject  to  many.  There 
are  concerned,  strong,  and  highly  vocal 
advocates  for  and  against  nuclear  power. 
The  issues  involved  cover  the  range  from 
environmental  damage  to  radiation  hazard 
to  economic  factors  to  fuel  security  to  con- 
flicting interests  among  the  power  pro- 
ducers. The  pro-industry  faction  is  opposed 
by  many  consumer  and  citizens'  groups. 

WPFs  involvement  with  nuclear  reactors 
goes  back  to  1959,  when  the  open-pool  reac- 
tor was  installed  in  Washburn.  Nuclear 
engineering  is  an  established  graduate 
degree  program,  and  courses  are  also  avail- 
able to  undergraduates.  In  1971,  the  college 
sponsored  an  evening  course  entitled  "The 
Nuclear  Power  Controversy."  The  four- 
teen-week series  was  videotaped  (with  the 
aid  of  a  grant  from  Yankee  Atomic  Electric) 
and  has  since  been  made  available  to  col- 
leges and  high  schools  all  over  the  North- 
east. The  increased  social  conscience  and 
awareness  of  the  faculty  and  students  have 
led  us  here  at  WPI  to  examine  all  sides  of 
the  question.  (There  may  be  some  irony  in 
the  fact  that  a  part  of  the  Interactive  Quali- 
fying Project  Center  is  at  times  off-limits  to 
people  because  it  is  located  directly  over  the 
radiation  cone  of  the  Washburn  reactor.) 


So  this  issue  of  the  WPI  Journal,  as 
promised  in  August,  takes  up  the  nuclear 
energy  situation.  The  three  articles 
presented  here,  like  the  two  before,  stem 
from  the  year -long  series  of  guest  lectures 
arranged  last  year  for  the  mechanical  engi- 
neering department. 

I  don't  pretend  that  five  articles  and  some 
25,000  words  can  adequately  begin  to  cope 
with  the  energy  situation  except  in  the  most 
elementary  way.  I  must  further  acknowl- 
edge that  this  series  is  an  "import"  —  it  hap- 
pened at  WPI,  but  it  does  not  represent  the 
words  or  the  work  of  WPI  people.  There  are 
hundreds  —  perhaps  thousands  —  of  WPI 
alumni  who  work  in  the  energy  production 
and  distribution  field.  I'd  like  to  hear  from 
some  of  you  about  your  reactions  to  this 
series  —  good,  bad,  indifferent.  There  are 
some  major  areas  (coal,  for  instance)  that 
have  been  only  lightly  touched.  If  you're 
involved  in  one  of  these,  you  have  a  valuable 
point  of  view  that  I  invite  you  to  share  with 
other  Journal  readers. 

-R.K. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1974/7 


Yes,  Virginia, 
nuclear  power  plants 
do  affect  the  environment 


by  Dr.  Morton  I.  Goldman 


Everyone  is  concerned  with  the 
environmental  effects  of  nuclear  power 
plants  —  but  have  you  ever  stopped  to 
consider  the  effects  of  not  going 
nuclear,  of  building  enormous  new  fossil 
fuel  plants? 

Dr.  Morton  I.  Goldman  is  senior  vice  presi- 
dent of  the  Environmental  Systems  Group  of 
NUS  Corporation,  Rockville,  Md.  He  is 
responsible  for  all  the  site,  environmental, 
waste  disposal,  and  safety  activities  conducted 
by  NUS  at  over  fifty  nuclear  and  fossil-fueled 
plants  in  the  United  States  and  abroad. 

Before  he  joined  NUS  in  1961,  he  spent 
eleven  years  with  the  U.S.  Public  Health 
Service,  working  for  several  years  at  Oak 
Ridge  National  Laboratory  on  waste  disposal 
research  and  two  years  as  a  nuclear  installa- 
tion consultant  from  the  PHS  to  state 
agencies. 

He  has  been  chairman  of  the  Committee  on 
Sanitary  Engineering  Aspects  of  Nuclear 
Energy  of  the  ASCE,  and  was  a  member  of 
the  group  that  drafted  the  radioactivity  sec- 
tion of  the  PHS  drinking  water  standards 
issued  in  1962.  In  1968  he  chaired  a  panel 
convened  by  the  International  A  tomic  Energy 
Agency.  He  is  currently  active  on  several  com- 
mittees of  the  American  Nuclear  Society. 

Dr.  Goldman  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  New  York,  Maryland,  and  the 
District  of  Columbia.  He  holds  advanced 
a  in  sanitary  engineering  and  nuclear 
>;,  ering  from  M.I.T. 


THERE  ARE  TWO  big  problems  in 
discussing  the  environmental  impact 
of  nuclear  facilities.  One  is  the  difference 
that  exists  between  what  I'll  call  the  abso- 
lute value  of  an  environmental  impact  and 
the  perception  of  an  impact  by  a  particular 
group  or  an  individual.  If  I  can  state  that  th 
impact  of  a  facility  in  absolute  terms  is  the 
entrapment  and  death  of  1,000  fish  of  a 
given  species,  that's  an  impact.  However,  it 
perception  may  well  vary  between  the  dif- 
ferent people  who  are  involved  in  looking  a 
that  number  offish  of  that  particular  spe- 
cies. For  the  Isaak  Walton  League  it  may  t. 
nearly  the  end  of  the  world.  For  the  power 
plant  operator,  it's  one  of  the  smaller  num- 
ber of  fish  kills  that  we've  had.  For  the  stat 
resources  agency  it  may  be  hardly  any  diffi- 
culty, although  they  recognize  that  some- 
thing has  happened. 

A  second  area  of  difficulty  in  dealing  with 
environmental  impact  of  nuclear  facilities  i; 
encompassed  by  the  scope  —  how  broad  an 
area  of  consideration  you  include  in  deter- 
mining the  impact  of  a  nuclear  generating 
station.  To  some  it  would  be  the  impact  of 
the  construction  and  the  operation  of  that 
station  on  its  own  local  environment.  Othei 
people  have  suggested,  and  in  fact 
demanded,  that  looking  at  an  isolated 
nuclear  power  station  is  not  sufficient,  that  i 
is  necessary  to  consider  the  total  impact  of 
the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  from  the  mining  of 
the  uranium  through  the  refining  and  pro- 
cessing, enrichment  operations,  fuel  fabri- 
cation, the  use  in  the  reactor,  transporation 
of  the  spent  fuel  to  a  recovery  facility  and 
the  effluents  associated  with  that  facility,  as 
well  as  the  ultimate  disposal  of  the  radio- 
active wastes  produced.  Other  people  will 
go  still  further  and  say  that  we  should  not 
only  look  at  what  the  normal  operating 
modes  of  these  stations  are  but  also  ought  t< 
consider  the  range  of  accidents  that  are  asso 


8  i  October  /  ')/4     WPI  Journal 


ciated  or  potentially  associated  with  them  — 
"what  if'  kinds  of  considerations  which 
may  range  from  accidents  at  stations  to 
diversion  of  fissile  material,  somebody 
stealing  a  truck  of  spent  fuel  and  manufac- 
turing his  own  private  arsenal.  So  there  is 
quite  a  range  in  what  might  be  covered  in 
assessing  the  environmental  impacts  of 
nuclear  generating  facilities. 

The  themes  I  will  discuss  here  include 
the  environmental  effects  of  power  genera- 
tion, that  is  nuclear  power  generation  with  a 
primary  focus  on  thermal  and  radiological 
effluents,  since  these  encompass  most  of  the 
question  which  are  normally  asked  about 
nuclear  power  plants  and  which  are  primar- 
ily dealt  with  in  impact  assessments.  I  will 
also  discuss  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  particu- 
larly in  the  area  of  the  disposition  of  high 
activity  fuel  reprocessing  wastes,  about 
which  there  have  also  been  signigicant  dis- 
cussion. The  areas  that  relate  to  accidents 
deserve  an  entirely  separate  discussion,  and 
the  next  two  articles,  by  Professor  Rasmus- 
sen  and  Mr.  Cherry,  will  cover  that  ground. 
I  should  stress  that  the  radiological  and 
thermal  areas  are  not  the  only  impacts  asso- 
ciated with  energy  generation.  The  consid- 
erations that  would  enter  into  a  fossil  plant's 
environmental  report  are  not  greatly  differ- 
ent that  those  we  would  look  at  for  a  nuclear 
facility.  Basically,  the  areas  involved,  aside 
from  the  construction  of  the  facility, 
include  resource  extraction,  transportation, 
waste  heat,  and  transmission  of  the  pro- 
duced energy  from  the  facility.  Combustion 
residues  could  be  loosely  interpreted  to  con- 
sider the  radiological  area.  I'm  not  propos- 
ing to  deal  with  resource  extraction  for 
nuclear  facilities  as  compared  to  fossil  fuels, 
although  I'll  have  a  few  comments  later. 
Transportation  is  certainly  an  issue  in  both 
instances;  100-car  coal  trains  or  huge  super- 
tankers coming  from  the  Middle  East  have 
their  own  environmental  impacts.  As  far  as 
transmission  is  concerned,  the  people  who 
live  along  a  right  of  way  don't  have  any  idea 
whether  the  electricity  in  those  lines  comes 
from  a  steam  plant,  a  hydroelectric  plant,  or 
from  a  nuclear  plant.  They  don't  normally 
like  the  transmission  lines,  but  that's  not  a 
nuclear  problem.  The  waste  heat  question 
does  have  some  special  aspects  that  are  asso- 
ciated with  nuclear  facilities,  and  obviously 
the  equivalent  of  the  combustion  residues 
are  also  specifically  nuclear  insofar  as  they 
involve  radioactivity. 

Before  going  on  to  discuss  the  impact  of 
nuclear  facilities  in  greater  detail,  it  would 
be  helpful  to  review  briefly  the  kinds  of 
nuclear  power  plants  that  are  currently 
being  operated  or  built  in  the  U.S.  There 
are  two  types  of  reactors  moderated  and 
>    cooled  by  light  water  which  have  been 
widely  accepted  for  power  generation.  In 
the  boiling  water  reactor,  the  core  consists 
of  a  latticework  array  of  perhaps  thousands 
of  rods,  each  a  centimeter  or  so  in  diameter, 
arranged  in  assemblies  called  fuel  elements; 


these  in  turn  are  located  in  this  lattice  to 
form  the  reactor  core.  Each  rod,  which  may 
have  an  active  length  of  about  4  meters,  con- 
sists of  a  number  of  pellets  of  only  slightly 
enriched  uranium  in  the  form  of  uranium 
dioxide  (a  ceramic,  high  sintered  material) 
stacked  inside  a  sealed  tube  commonly 
made  of  a  zirconium  alloy.  The  zircolloy 
cladding  and  the  fuel  serve  to  retain  the  fis- 
sion products  generated  within  the  fuel  and 
to  inhibit  at  least  their  release  into  the  rest  of 
the  system.  In  the  boiling  water  reactor  con- 
cept, steam  is  generated  directly  in  the  reac- 
tor vessel.  The  water  coolant  is  allowed  to 
boil;  it  travels  to  the  turbine,  turns  the  tur- 
bine, is  condensed  by  some  external  cooling 
water,  and  returns  to  the  reactor  vessel.  One 
of  the  more  significant  aspects  of  this  par- 
ticular type  of  nuclear  power  plant  is  that 
any  radioactive  gases  that  may  be  released 
from  the  core  have  a  straight  shot  through 
the  turbine  to  the  condenser  system.  The 
condenser  is  usually  maintained  under  a 
vacuum  in  order  to  improve  the  thermal 
cycle  efficiency,  and  that  vacuum  will 
remove  any  gases  that  are  evolved  from  the 
core  and  take  them  out  of  the  circulating 
system.  In  the  older  plants,  and  in  fact  in 
almost  all  of  them  currently  operating,  these 
gases  were  vented  after  a  relatively  short 
delay  to  a  tall  stack,  usually  on  the  order  of 
300  feet,  from  which  they  were  dispersed 
into  the  environment.  This  is  not  being 
done  any  more. 

The  other  kind  of  light  water  reactor  in 
common  use  in  the  U.S.  is  an  indirect  cycle, 
pressurized  water  plant,  in  which  sufficient 
pressure  is  maintained  in  the  primary  sys- 
tem to  keep  the  water  from  boiling.  The  hot 
water  is  circulated  through  an  external  heat 
exchanger  or  steam  generator  secondary 


over  a  core  lifetime.  In  the  process  of 
absorbing  neutrons  and  doing  its  function, 
the  boron,  at  least  in  part,  is  converted  to  an 
isotope  of  hydrogen  called  tritium  which  in 
turn  combines  with  oxygen  in  the  water  to 
form  tritiated  water.  Tritium  is  not  a  par- 
ticularly large  biological  hazard,  but  it  does 
present  some  special  problems  in  waste 
management  because  there  is  no  feasible 
way  of  separating  tritiated  water  from  ordi- 
nary (or  light)  water.  Another  difficulty  that 
has  been  encountered  recently  in  several 
plants  relates  to  the  steam  generator  itself, 
which  in  practice  turns  out  not  always  to  be 
isolated  from  the  reactor  coolant.  Steam 
generator  tubes  leak,  they  corrode,  and  there 
have  been  occasions  in  which  radioactivity 
has  been  transferred  from  the  primary  cir- 
cuit to  the  secondary  circuit  where  radio- 
activity is  really  not  supposed  to  be  in  the 
first  place. 

A  third  type  of  power  plant  is  becoming 
very  slowly  more  accepted  —  the  high  tem- 
perature gas  cooled  plant.  In  this  type  of 
plant  the  moderator  is  composed  of  graph- 
ite, and  helium,  rather  than  water,  is  the 
coolant.  The  combination  of  the  graphitic 
core  material  and  the  helium  gas  coolant 
allows  the  reactor  to  operate  at  a  much 
higher  temperature  than  the  light  water 
reactors  can  achieve  using  present  fuel 
materials.  The  heat  from  the  helium  reactor 
coolant,  transferred  through  a  heat 
exchanger  to  a  secondary  water  circuit,  pro- 
duces the  steam  which  drives  the  turbine. 
The  combination  of  the  material  properties 
and  coolant  properties  results  in  a  signifi- 
cantly higher  thermal  efficiency  for  these 
plants  with  a  resulting  decrease  in  heat 
rejection  to  the  condenser  cooling  water. 
The  first  moderate  size  unit  of  this  type, 


Considering  the  current  problems  in  dealing  with  30 
to  35  million  tons  of  coal  ash  every  year,  the  disposal 
of  nuclear  wastes  is  a  small  problem. 


system  where  steam  is  generated  to  turn  the 
turbine.  There  is  nominally  a  high  degree  of 
isolation  between  the  reactor  coolant  circuit 
and  the  steam  circuit  or  secondary  side,  and 
the  isolation,  at  least  to  some  extent,  serves 
to  eliminate  the  source  of  radioactive  waste 
gas  that  is  present  in  the  basic  boiling  water 
reactor  concept.  The  pressurized  water 
reactor  has  its  own  particular  problems  with 
potential  avenues  of  escape  for  radio- 
activity. For  one  thing,  the  system  normally 
employs  a  dissolved  chemical,  boric  acid,  in 
the  reactor  coolant  water  to  control  reac- 
tivity (neutron  fission  rate  in  a  gross  sense) 


about  300  megawatts,  is  about  to  begin 
operation  in  Colorado. 

The  sources  of  radioactive  materials,  the 
things  that  we're  concerned  about,  include 
fission  products  produced  by  fissioning  ura- 
nium, activation  products,  and  corrosion 
products.  The  latter  two  are  artificial  mate- 
rials that  are  created  by  exposing  stable  ele- 
ments in  the  core  and  coolant  to  the  neutron 
flux.  The  fission  products  are  by  and  large 
maintained  within  the  fuel  and  its  cladding. 
Small  quantities  of  uranium  normally  will 
be  present  on  the  surface  of  the  cladding, 
and  this  so-called  tramp  uranium  will 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974/9 


release  some  fission  products  into  the  cool- 
ant. But  the  most  significant  source  of  activ- 
ity will  arise  when  there  are  minor  defects, 
pinholes,  and  the  like  in  the  fuel  cladding 
itself;  then  gaseous  fission  products,  volatile 
fission  product  elements  will  migrate  from 
the  hot  fuel  to  the  coolant.  Of  the  three 
sources,  the  fission  products  are  the  major 
headache  in  a  nuclear  plant.  Almost  all 
operating  plants  at  me  present  time  have 
had  some  small  fraction  of  fuel  elements 
which  have  had  defects  in  them,  and  usually 
the  practice  has  been  to  design  waste  han- 
dling systems  which  are  capable  of  manag- 
ing quantities  of  radioactivity  and  volumes 
of  both  gas  and  water  which  are  greater  than 
those  expected  during  the  plant's  lifetime. 
In  view  of  the  unfortunate  way  in  which 
nuclear  energy  was  introduced  to  the  world, 
it's  perhaps  not  surprising  that  the  nuclear 
power  industry  is  the  only  one  in  the  history 
of  technology  in  which  regulations  for  con- 
trol and  standards  preceeded  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  industry.  As  a  very  quick 
comparison,  it's  very  easy  to  recognize  that 
it  is  only  now,  within  the  last  few  years,  that 
we're  getting  standards  and  criteria  for 
atmospheric  pollution  resulting  from  burn- 
ing of  fossil  fuels  —  many,  many  years  after 
the  problem  was  first  recognized.  The  first 
air  pollution  law,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  was 
written  in  1493.  Queen  Elizabeth  I  didn't 
like  the  soot  in  London  and  forbade  the 
burning  of  sea  coal  at  that  time.  The  penalty 
for  burning  sea  coal,  or  even  for  selling  it, 
was  hanging  followed  by  drawing  and  quar- 
tering in  the  public  square.  That's  a  little  bit 
harsher  than  some  of  the  things  we  get  into 
now.  But  nevertheless  it  has  been  only  in  the 
last  two  years  that  we've  had  standards  for 
both  ambient  concentrations  and  emission 
levels  of  sulfur  and  other  pollutants  from 
fossil  plants. 

The  standards  and  criteria  for  radiation 
exposure  of  members  of  the  public  have 
been  in  fact  unchanged  since  1954,  about 
three  years  prior  to  the  start-up  of  the  Ship- 
ping Port  plant,  which  was  the  first  one  to 
produce  electric  energy  on  a  pseudo-com- 
mercial basis.  These  radiation  protection 
standards  have  been  established  inter- 
nationally by  the  International  Commission 
on  Radiological  Protection  and  are  essen- 
tially followed  by  all  nations.  We  and  the 
Soviet  Union  agree  on  the  recommenda- 
tions of  the  ICRP.  In  the  United  States  we 
have  our  own  National  Council  on  Radi- 
ation Protection  and  Measurement  which 
was  formed  in  1930  or  1931,  at  least  a  few 
vcars  before  AEC  was  founded.  The  Fed- 
eral Radiation  Council  was  established  in 
1959  and  in  I960  it  essentially  adopted  the 
same  international  standards.  The  National 
Academy  of  Sciences  in  1955  and  in  1960 
also  reviewed  the  then-existing  standards 
and  supported  them.  All  of  these  national 
and  international  agencies  have  agreed  upon 
the  basic  radiation  protection  standards  for 
members  of  the  public,  standards  essentially 
unchanged  since  1954. 


In  view  of  the  unfortunate  way  nuclear  energy  was 
introduced  to  the  world,  it's  not  surprising  that  the 
nuclear  power  industry  is  the  only  one  in  the  history 
of  technology  for  which  regulations  and  standards 
preceded  the  establishment  of  the  industry  itself. 


All  of  these  standards  provide  for  a  maxi- 
mum dose  to  an  individual  in  the  general 
public  of  500  millirem  or  0.5  rem  per  year. 
For  those  of  you  who  may  not  be  particu- 
larly familiar  with  the  radiation  literature, 
this  is  about  equivalent  to  five  chest  x-rays 
per  year.  To  account  for  individual  variabil- 
ity, the  United  States  through  the  Federal 
Radiation  Council  adopted  the  practice  of 
using  a  value  of  about  one-third  of  the  indi- 
vidual standard,  or  170  millirem  per  year, 
where  it  is  impossible  to  monitor  individ- 
uals (as  is  the  case  so  far  as  the  public  is  con- 
cerned). To  cover  this  individual  variability 
and  the  possibility  that  one  person  may  be 
more  sensitive  by  a  factor  of  three,  say,  than 
the  average,  the  practice  has  been  to  use  this 
170  millirem  per  year  for  individuals.  In 
order  to  control  exposure  to  large  popu- 
lation groups,  in  which  the  genetic  effects 
on  the  gene  pool  of  the  entire  population  is 
important,  a  limit  to  all  sources  of  radiation 
of  artificial  origin  except  for  medical 
exposure  of  5000  millirem  or  5  rem  over  a 
thirty  year  period  has  been  specified  by  the 
International  Commission  on  Radiological 
Protection  and  adopted  by  the  U.S.  This  is 
identical  to  the  170  millirem  per  year 
described  earlier  for  individuals. 

However,  from  the  original  inception  of 
radiation  protection  standards  for  the  pub- 
lic, both  national  and  international  organi- 
zations have  specified  that  exposure  should 
be  kept  as  far  below  these  limits  as  prac- 
ticable. This  precept  has  been  applied  by 
the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  in  two 
ways.  The  first  is  by  establishing  discharge 
limits  for  power  plant  sites  which  are  con- 
servative, by  which  I  mean  that  if  one  were 
to  discharge  at  the  authorized  limits,  the 
radiation  exposures  produced  to  the  public 
would  be  substantially  lower  than  the  170 
millirem  limit  per  year  specified.  The  regu- 
latory staff  does  this  by  generally  granting, 
as  an  example,  substantially  less  credit  for 
atmospheric  dilution  than  a  site  mete- 
orological program  would  indicate.  The 
AEC  creates  some  very  interesting  locations 
and  habits  of  the  people  who  live  next  to 
power  plants.  They  will  have  somebodv  sit- 
ting naked  on  a  fencepost  downward  for  365 
I  year,  24  hours  a  day  —  that  is  the  indi- 
vidual who  is  the  limiting  case,  even  though 
I  don't  know  of  anybody  who  behaves  like 
that,  particularly  on  a  day  like  today.  They 


will  specify  that  one  has  to  consider  a  cow 
tethered  to  this  fence-post,  grazing  on  gras; 
located  in  the  most  exposed  downwind  loca 
tion,  and  from  this  cow  an  infant  chained  t< 
its  right  hind  leg  continually  sucks  milk. 
They  assume  that  you  will  obtain  your 
drinking  water  directly  from  the  discharge 
pipe,  not  from  the  river  or  the  lake  into 
which  the  plant  discharge.  You  are  just  so 
eager  to  get  this  stuff  that  you  can't  wait  foi 
it  to  be  diluted  in  the  natural  environment. 
(I  don't  know  of  anybody  who  does  that 
either.)  And  all  of  the  fish  that  you  eat  are 
born,  raised,  and  caught  in  the  discharge 
line  before  any  environmental  dilution.  So 
using  these  kinds  of  assumptions  the  regu- 
latory staff  of  the  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
mision  works  backwards  and  says  these  are 
the  allowable  limits  then  for  discharges 
from  this  plant.  Needless  to  say  since  there 
are  very  few,  if  any,  locations  at  which  we 
have  either  the  naked  fellow  on  the  fence- 
post  or  the  infant  chained  to  the  cow's  righi 
rear  leg  or  people  drinking  water  from  the 
discharge  line  prior  to  dilution,  the  radi- 
ation exposures  received  from  discharges  t( 
real  people  at  real  locations  living  in  houses 
going  to  work,  moving  away  from  the  plant 
having  cows  on  feed  or  indoors  or  perhaps 
even  no  cows  at  all  —  the  actual  doses  to 
actual  people  are  substantially  lower  than 
those  that  would  correspond  to  the  1 70  mil- 
lirem dose  limits.  That's  the  first  way  in 
which  the  regulatory  staff  applies  this  "as 
low  as  practicable"  philosophy. 

The  second  way  has  been  to  require  pro- 
cess equipment  capability  in  the  plant 
which  is  more  than  ample  to  reach  the  dis- 
charge limits  that  they've  set.  So  that  you 
have  to  have  equipment  in  plant  which 
would  meet  those  conservatively  estab- 
lished discharge  limits  under  conditions  of 
plant  performance  (fuel  failures,  equipmen 
outages,  etc.)  which  would  require  the  plan 
to  be  shut  down  for  other  reasons  such  as 
too  much  radiation  in  the  plant  for  people  tc 
stay  there.  Now  the  success  of  the  approach 
employed  by  the  Atomic  Energy  Commis- 
sion has  been  demonstrated  by  the 
accumulated  experience  at  operating 
nuclear  power  plants.  With  one  or  two 
exceptions,  there  has  been  no  measurable  oi 
significant  change  in  radiation  exposure  to 
plant  neighbors  before  and  after  these 
plants  have  started  operations.  The  only 


10     October  Vi/A     WPI  Journal 


exceptions  are  some  early  boiling  water 
reactor  plants  with  the  problem  I  mentioned 
earlier,  where  poor  fuel  performance 
resulted  in  measured  increases  in  site 
boundary  doses  from  gases  released  as  a 
result  of  the  defective  fuel.  As  I  also  men- 
tioned, all  boiling  water  reactors  are  either 
currently  being  built  or  back  fitted  with 
additional  hold-up  capability  for  those 
gases.  Other  than  these  few  exceptions, 
plant  releases  have  been  only  a  few  percent 
of  the  discharge  limits,  and  the  discharge 
limits  themselves  correspond  to  radiation 
exposures  substantially  below  the 
standards. 

In  1969  and  1970  controversy  developed 
in  this  country  about  the  validity  of  the 
radiation  protection  standards  and  the 
potential  radiological  effects  of  a  nuclear 
powered  economy  on  the  U.S.  This  con- 
troversy was  fueled  initially  by  Dr. 
Sternglass  at  the  University  of  Pittsburgh 
and  carried  on  and  expanded  by  Drs.  Goff- 
man  and  Tamplin  of  the  University  of  Cal- 
ifornia Livermore  Laboratory,  using  (at  the 
very  best)  questionable  biological  extra- 
polation and  just  plain  wrong  physical 
extrapolation.  Their  lecture  tours,  if  I  might 
describe  them  that  way,  stimulated  quite  a 
bit  of  activity  and  interest,  including  con- 
gressional hearings  and  a  few  other  things. 
They  also  stimulated  a  review  of  the  avail- 
able biological  data  and  standards  by  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences  which  set  up 
a  committee  on  the  biological  effects  of 
ionizing  radiation,  the  BEIR  Committee,  to 
examine  where  we  stood  and  what  we  knew 
and  what  we  didn't  know  about  radiation 
effects. 


be  a  few  worms  still  remaining  in  the  can. 
One  of  the  worms  turned  out  to  be  the  very 
clear  indication  that  the  regulatory  staff  in 
practice  proposed  to  employ  the  same 
approaches  to  individual  plant  licensing  as 
they  had  in  the  past  —  first,  to  establish  these 
discharge  limits  in  a  very  conservative  way 
with  the  cow  and  the  naked  people  and 
everything  else,  and  second  to  again  require 
the  in-plant  process  systems  be  capable  of 
dealing  with  more  than  what  you  would 
expect  to  see.  These  approaches  used  with 
the  original  limits  had  resulted  in  experi- 


natural  background  radiation  in  the  U.S.  is 
about  1/10  rem  per  year.  There  are  200  mil- 
lion people  in  the  U.S.  So  the  U.S.  popu- 
lation dose  from  natural  background  is  the 
product  of  these  two,  or  about  20  million 
person  rems.  Under  the  assumption,  and  I 
would  stress  that  it  is  only  an  assumption, 
that  any  radiation  exposure  regardless  of  the 
level  of  dose  or  dose  rate,  is  equally  harmful 
per  unit  dose,  then  the  population  dose  is  a 
measure  of  risk  or  harm. 

From  the  environmental  point  of  view, 
natural  radiation  is  about  100  to  102  milli- 


They  will  specify  that  you  have  to  consider  a  cow 
tethered  to  this  fencepost,  grazing  on  grass  located 
in  the  most  exposed  downwind  location,  from  which 
an  infant  chained  to  its  right  hind  leg  continually 
sucks  milk. 


ence  that  generally  ranged  about  a  few  per- 
cent of  the  older  limits.  However,  applying 
the  same  philosophy  to  the  new  limits, 
lower  by  a  factor  of  100,  would  not  only  be 
very  expensive  if  they  resulted  in  the  same 
kind  of  margin,  they  might  very  well  be  less 
favorable  from  a  biological  point  of  view. 

Now  this  proposed  rule  has  been  con- 
tested, not  only  by  environmentalists  but  by 
the  utility  industry  and  by  the  State  of  Min- 


Theywill  have  somebody  sitting  naked  ona  fence- 
post  downwind  of  a  nuclear  plant  for  365  days  a 
year,  24  hours  a  day  —  that  is  the  individual  who  is 
the  limiting  case. 


Before  this  committee  came  in  with  its 
answer  however,  the  AEC  came  out  with  a 
new  rule,  decreasing  by  about  100  times  the 
allowable  radiation  discharge  limits.  This 
rule,  which  provides  numerical  guidance  to 
the  as  low-as-practicable  philosophy,  was 
justified  by  the  AEC  regulatory  staff  on  the 
basis  that  the  excellent  operating  experience 
accumulated  up  to  that  time  showed  that 
this  was  in  fact  a  practical  goal  to  set  up. 
That  is  sort  of  analogous  to  saying,  if  you 
can  run  a  car  at  5  miles  an  hour  and  its  obvi- 
ously safer  than  at  70  miles  an  hour,  why  not 
run  them  at  5?  However,  when  people  who 
were  interested,  and  that  includes  about 
everybody  from  the  environmentalists  to 
the  utility  industry  to  their  suppliers  and 
engineers,  looked  into  this  there  appeared  to 


nesota  since  January  of  1972.  The  position 
of  the  utilities  generally  speaking  has  been 
that  the  proposed  rule  alone  is,  with  minor 
modifications,  desirable  and  acceptable  but 
that  when  it's  combined  with  the  con- 
servative implementation  that  the  bureau- 
crats on  the  regulatory  staff  use,  it's  not 
justifiable  from  either  an  economic  or  more 
importantly  from  a  health  standpoint.  In 
this  instance  we're  looking  at  almost  a  clas- 
sic cost-benefit  analysis.  But  in  order  to 
explain  these  points  I  would  like  to  use  a 
unit  of  population  radiation  exposure,  the 
man-rem  (or  these  days,  the  person-rem), 
which  is  simply  the  sum  of  distribution  of 
people  and  their  exposure.  Or  another  way 
is  the  product  of  the  average  dose  per  person 
and  the  number  of  people  so  exposed.  Thus 


rems  per  year.  Fallout  contributes  4.  In 
1970  nuclear  power  contributed  0.003. 
Medical  diagnostic  exposure  contributed 
72,  radiopharmaceuticals  1,  miscellaneous 
3.  The  total  is  about  182  average  millirems 
per  capita  per  year.  In  person-rems,  about 
21  million  from  background,  700  from 
nuclear  power.  Nuclear  power  then  contrib- 
uted about  16  millionths  of  the  total  per 
capita  radiation  dose  in  the  U.S.  In  1970, 
under  the  miscellaneous  area,  one  can  esti- 
mate that  commercial  air  travel  in  the  U.S., 
which  was  some  104  billion  passenger  miles 
traveled  at  an  average  speed  of  350  miles  per 
hour,  resulted  in  some  300  million  passen- 
ger hours  exposed  from  cosmic  rays  at  a  rate 
of  about  0.3  millirem  per  hour  or  a  popu- 
lation exposure  of  some  90,000  person- 
rems.  That's  over  100  times  more  radiation 
from  flying  in  jet  aircraft  than  from  nuclear 
power  in  the  same  year. 

In  looking  ahead  to  the  year  2000  which 
seems  to  be  popular  with  a  lot  of  people, 
nuclear  power  in  that  year  is  projected  by 
the  Atomic  Energy  Commision  to  be  about 
38,000  person-rems  per  year.  The  National 
Academy  of  Sciences  said  about  51,000  — 
not  very  greatly  different.  And  either  figure, 
or  in  fact  the  sum  of  both!  -  is  less  than  the 
general  public  got  from  air  travel  in  1970.  If 
air  travel  patterns  continue  the  way  they 
have  been,  air  travel  will  still  be  a  sub- 
stantially greater  contributor  to  overall  pop- 
ulation exposure  than  will  nuclear  power. 
One  deficiency  in  both  the  AEC  and  the 
National  Academy  of  Sciences  view  of  the 
future  from  radiation  exposure  is  that  both 
neglect  exposure  incurred  by  nuclear  plant 
operating  staffs.  Present  experience  is 
highly  variable,  but  data  assembled  by  the 
United  Nations  Scientific  Committee  on 
Effects  of  Atomic  Radiation,  by  ICRP,  and 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1974/11 


In  1 970,  nuclear  power  contributed  about  1 6 
millionths  of  the  total  per  capita  radiation  dose 
in  the  U.S.  Commercial  air  travel  contributed 
over  1 00  times  more  radiation  exposure. 


by  ourselves  indicate  that  a  mean  in-plant 
exposure  of  about  1.4  person-rems  per 
megawatt  year  of  nuclear  electricity  is 
obtained  in  nuclear  plants.  If  this  value  is 
maintained,  the  average  contribution  to  per- 
son-rems, about  15  to  20  times  what  we're 
looking  at  here  for  the  general  public.  If  this 
projection  holds,  and  there  is  no  reason  to 
suspect  substantial  reduction  of  in-plant 
exposure  unless  we  radically  change  the 
way  we  design  and  build  nuclear  power  sta- 
tions, it  is  the  view  of  many  that  overly 
restrictive  discharge  limits  may  increase  the 
overall  population  dose  rather  than  decrease 
it.  This  is  a  classic  case  of  squeezing  down 
on  the  balloon  one  place  and  having  it  pop 
up  somewhere  else.  Since  the  overall  bio- 
logical insult  to  the  U.S.  population,  in  a 
genetic  sense,  is  directly  related  to  the  popu- 
lation dose  to  any  and  all  segments  of  the 
population,  the  proposed  restriction  by 
AEC  is  much  more  likely  to  harm  than  to 
help.  And  the  difficulty  is  that  they  have 
refused,  at  least  to  this  time,  to  recognize  the 
fact  that  restricting  discharges  does  imply 
an  increase  in  in-plant  occupational 
exposure. 

This  rule  on  discharges  will  result  in  sub- 
stantial additional  economic  cost,  because 
taking  out  the  last  2  percent  of  anything 
usually  costs  as  much  as  removing  the  first 
98  percent.  And  if  in  addition  to  that  it 
results  in  an  increased  population  insult, 
from  a  genetic  viewpoint,  any  rational  con- 
sideration must  reject  that  proposal  as  unde- 
sirable. Even  the  National  Academy  of 
Sciences  expressed  their  view  on  this  point. 
"The  public  must  be  protected  from  radi- 
ation, but  not  to  the  extent  that  the  degree  of 
protection  provided  results  in  the  sub- 
stitution of  a  worse  hazard  for  the  radiation 
avoided.  Addtionally,  there  should  not  be 
attempted  the  reduction  of  small  risks  even 
further  at  the  cost  of  large  sums  of  money 
that  spent  otherwise  would  clearly  produce 
greater  benefits."  At  an  estimated  cost  of 
something  like  $5-7  million  per  nuclear 
plant  per  year,  from  any  municipal  or  cor- 
porate sense  that  is  money  down  the  drain 
since  the  same  people  who  are  asked  to  pay 
the  utility  rates  to  cover  the  cost  of  these 
systems  are  also  the  same  ones  who  arc 
asked  to  finance  sewer  bonds,  school  bonds, 
water  supply  bonds,  etc.  In  any  event  I 
think  it  is  clear  to  anyone  at  all  who  has 
taken  a  significant  look  at  the  situation  of 
normal  radiation  discharge  from  nuclear 
power  plants  that  there  is  no  environmental 
impact  worth?  <»f  the  tervor,  newspaper 


space,  or  TV  time  that  has  been  devoted  to 
this  issue. 

There  remains,  so  far  as  nuclear  plants 
are  concerned,  the  question  of  heat  dis- 
charge, a  problem  common  to  all  steam 
electric  stations,  whether  fossil  or  nuclear. 
The  1969  average  thermal  efficiency  for  all 
U.S.  fossil  plants  was  about  33.2  percent. 
This  results  in  slightly  over  2  kilowatts  of 
heat  being  rejected  for  every  kilowatt  of 
electric  energy  generated.  Now  of  this  total 
heat  rejection,  about  15  percent  goes  via  the 
stack  gases  and  the  remainder  via  the  con- 
denser cooling  system.  Since  nuclear  reac- 
tors do  not  reject  heat  via  combustion  gases, 
essentially  all  of  the  waste  heat  is  rejected  to 
the  condenser  cooling  water.  Present  light 
water  reactors  operate  with  an  efficiency  of 
about  32  percent,  which  is  only  slightly 
worse  than  the  U.S.  average  for  1969;  but 
since  there  are  no  stack  gases,  all  of  the 
waste  heat  goes  into  the  water  and  that 
results  in  a  larger  heat  rejection  to  the  water 
environment  than  is  the  case  for  an  equiva- 
lent fossil  plant.  The  best  U.S.  fossil  plant 
has  a  thermal  efficiency  of  about  40  percent, 
again  with  heat  rejection  both  to  stack  gases 
and  to  the  water.  The  high  temperature  gas 
cooled  reactor  also  has  an  efficiency  of  about 
40  percent,  but  again  without  stack  gases  to 
remove  at  least  a  portion  of  the  waste  heat. 
All  of  it  goes  to  the  water,  so  the  HTGR, 
although  thermally  equivalent  to  the  best 
U.S.  fossil  plant  at  the  present  time,  will 
reject  more  heat  to  the  water  environment. 
It  is  estimated  that  the  breeders  may  run 
with  efficiencies  of  somewhere  between  45 
and  50  percent,  which  will  reduce  the  heat 
rejection  below  that  currently  attained  with 
the  best  fossil  plants. 

The  combination  of  lower  thermal  effi- 
ciency and  large  unit  size  for  central  station 
plants  has  resulted  in  a  more  difficult  situ- 
ation. There  are  relatively  few  fossil  plants 
that  have  been  proposed  for  and  certainly 
not  operated  in  the  past  for  2,400  megawatts 
of  electric  energy.  Nuclear  plants  are  quite 
commonly  attempted  to  be  sited  with  as 
many  as  possible  on  one  site,  because  sites 
arc  getting  hard  to  come  by.  The  waste  heat 
issue  has  been  raised  primarily  in  associa- 
tion with  nuclear  power  plants,  but  the  dif- 
ference between  nuclear  and  fossil  steam 
plants  is  literally  just  one  of  degree,  which 
relates  both  to  thermal  efficiency  and  station 
size,  for  the  present,  techniques  are  avail- 
able for  controlling  the  discharge  of  heat  to 
the  water  environment  on  its  way  to  the 
atmosphere  (which  is,  after  all,  the  ultimate 


repository  for  waste  heat).  Once-through  or 
open-cycle  cooling  has  been  the  method 
most  frequently  chosen  to  transfer  rejected 
heat  to  the  water  environment.  This  system 
can  be  most  effectively  employed  on  large 
water  bodies  with  which  the  heated  dis- 
charge flows  can  be  rapidly  mixed.  How- 
ever, certain  environmental  factors  must 
usually  be  considered  in  the  particular 
design.  For  example,  if  fish  spawning 
occurs  in  the  vicinity  or  if  there  are  large 
numbers  of  young  fish,  the  intake  structure 
must  be  located  and  designed  to  minimize 
entrainment  of  larvae  and  fry.  I  saw  some 
interesting  examples  of  studies  going  on 
over  here  at  Alden  Research  Labs  related  to 
this.  Similarly,  return  of  the  discharge  water 
via  a  long  canal  for  example  may  not  be 
most  desirable  in  those  circumstances  where 
winter  shutdowns  may  result  in  large  fish 
kills  due  to  thermal  shock.  That  has  hap- 
pened at  Oyster  Creek  on  a  few  occasions. 
Submerged  discharge  lines  using  multiport 
jet  diffusers  can  avoid  that  problem  as  well  a: 
produce  such  rapid  mixing  that  surface 
areas  of  only  a  few  acres  are  produced  in 
which  water  temperatures  are  as  much  as 
three  degrees  above  the  ambient  tempera- 
ture. 

Cooling  towers  are  frequently  suggested 
as  alternatives  where  once-through  cooling 
isn't  feasible.  These  discharge  the  heat 
directly  to  the  atmosphere.  However,  these 
alternate  methods  of  heat  rejection  also  have 
their  own  disadvantages  which  need  to  be 
weighed  carefully  before  a  choice  is  made. 
The  economics  aside,  natural  draft  cooling 
towers  may  be  as  tall  as  a  forty  to  fifty  story 
building,  and  the  plume  that  they  produce  is 
a  hell  of  a  lot  taller.  They're  not  exactly 
unobtrusive. 

These  and  the  lower  profile  mechanical 
draft  towers  discharge  a  considerable 
amount  of  water  vapor  to  the  atmosphere, 
which  can  have  significant  climatological 
effects  in  the  vicinity  of  the  station.  It's  not 
unusual  in  Europe,  where  stations  are  built 
very  much  closer  to  highways  and  roads,  to 
come  across  a  stretch  of  ice  on  an  autobahn 
when  you're  doing  160  kilometers  an  hour 
because  the  cooling  tower  plume  has  been 
across  there  in  the  winter  time.  In  cold, 
humid  weather  the  likelihood  of  fogging 
and  precipitation  is  increased;  around  some 
plants  in  cold  climates  it's  a  little  hard  to  see 
anything  becaused  the  plume  is  right  over- 
head. These  towers  have  created  icing  prob- 
lems on  nearby  plant  structures,  roads,  and 
streets.  There  is  a  2,900  megawatt  fossil 
generating  station  in  Germany,  the  largest 
fossil  plant  entirely  on  cooling  towers  in  the 
world  -  and  it's  wet  there.  Farmers  like  it, 
but  I  don't  know  that  anybody  else  does. 
In  addition  to  cooling  towers,  ponds  or 
lakes  are  another  alternative.  These  require 
substantial  land  areas  which,  depending  on 
the  climate,  may  average  1  to  3  acres  of 
water  surface  per  megawatt  of  plant  capac- 
ity. Thus  a  plant  with  1,000  megawatts  of 
generating  capacity  might  require  as  much 


12     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


as  3,000  acres  for  a  cooling  lake  or  pond. 
This  area  can  be  reduced  by  using  power 
sprays  to  augment  heat  transfer  but  with  an 
increased  consumption  of  water.  And  these 
ponds  do  create  some  local  fogging  on  cold 
days  due  to  the  evaporation.  The  potential 
impact  of  these  thermal  discharges  is  open, 
shall  we  say,  at  the  present  time.  On  an  indi- 
vidual plant  basis  there  have  been  plants  of 
substantial  size  that  have  been  operating  for 
a  number  of  years  without  observable 
effects  as  a  result  of  heat  dissipation  or  heat 
discharge.  There  have  been  other  plants 
located  poorly,  with  the  wrong  kind  of  cool- 
ing system,  which  have  resulted  in  sub- 
stantial damage  to  streams.  Means  are 
available  for  mitigating  those  kinds  of  cir- 
cumstances, but  we  appear  to  be  caught  up 
in  another  kind  of  hysteria  which  is  similar 
to  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission's  on  the 
radiation  issue,  and  that  is  the  Environ- 
mental Protection  Agency  and  its  potential 
guidelines  for  steam  plant  discharges  of 
heat.  We  have  no  idea  at  the  present  time  of 
how  the  EPA  is  going  to  deal  with  the 
requirement  of  Congress  that  the  best  avail- 
able and  the  best  practicable  technology  be 
used  by  1983  with  the  goal  of  eliminating  all 
discharges  into  water.  However,  a  draft 
report  of  the  contractor  for  EPA  who 
reviewed  the  state  of  the  art  recommended 
in  their  view  the  technology  that  they  con- 
sidered to  meet  these  criteria,  that  cooling 
toweres  be  used  on  essentially  all  plants, 
regardless  of  location,  size,  age  (with  a  few 
restrictions).  This  recommendation  did  not 
consider  whether  the  substantial  con- 
sumptive use  of  water  by  evaporation  in 
such  towers  would  be  more  harmful  than 
the  heat  in  water-short  areas,  whether  the 
local  topographic  or  climatic  condiditions 
would  produce  fogging  or  icing  hazards, 
whether  the  salt  drift  from  towers  on  brack- 
ish or  salt  waters  might  cause  agricultural 
damage  and  enhance  corrosion.  It  did  not 
consider  any  of  these.  If  there  is  any  envi- 
ronmental impact  area  at  all  in  which  deci- 
sions logically  must  be  site-specific,  it  is  in 
the  area  of  thermal  effects  but  as  yet  we  have 
no  information  as  to  whether  the  proposed 
guides  emanating  from  EPA  will  reflect  this 
logic  or  some  mysterious  workings  that  go 
on  in  Washington. 

The  final  area  of  environmental  concern 
is  radiological,  and  is  concerned  with  the 


spent  fuel  reprocessing.  Despite  the  recent 
attention  to  the  subject,  I  should  point  out 
that  it's  not  exactly  new.  Almost  twenty 
years  ago  I  was  conducting  research  and 
development  work  on  chemically  inert 
forms  for  high  activity  fission  product 
wastes,  first  at  Oak  Ridge  and  later  at 
M.I.T.  The  other  way  of  controlling  high 
activity  wastes  other  than  conversion  to  a 
chemically  inert  form  involves  putting 
them  in  a  regime  in  which  they  are  isolated 
from  the  biosphere.  It  was  back  in  1954 
when  the  National  Academy  of  Sciences 
recommended  bedded  salt  forma- 
tions as  the  type  of  geologic  structure  most 
likely  to  provide  the  degree  of  isolation 
desired.  During  the  years  between  then  and 
now,  work  has  been  underway  to  develop 
optimum  solidification  methods  and  sites 
for  the  wastes  projected  to  be  developed  in 
the  future.  There  was  a  controversy  that 
involved  AEC  a  few  years  ago  (in  fact  most 
of  the  controversies  involve  AEC's  own 
activities  rather  than  those  of  the  utilities). 
There  was  a  problem  a  few  years  ago  fol- 
lowing a  disclosure  that  a  salt  mine  in  Kan- 
sas that  the  Commission  had  been  using  for 
the  field-test  program  on  salt  as  a  disposal 
medium  and  was  considering  as  an  ultimate 
repository  was  not  in  fact  acceptable  for  that 
purpose  because  of  mineral  explorations 
that  had  been  made  for  gas  and  oil  in  that 
area  which  had  punched  a  few  holes  into  or 
near  their  proposed  storage  area.  To  provide 
assurance  that  there  will  be  some  place  to 
put  the  first  waste  loads  that  are  coming  in 
the  early  1980s,  the  AEC  is  proceeding  with 
a  plan  for  constructing  engineered  surface 
storage  facilities  while  these  other  salt  bed 
regions  are  being  examined  for  suitable 
repository  sites.  Although  storage  facilities 
will  receive  only  solidified  waste,  they're 
being  designed  to  provide  complete  isola- 
tion of  the  stored  material  from  the  environ- 
ment under  essentially  all  foreseeable 
circumstances.  We  should  really  keep  in 
mind  that  the  volume  of  wastes  to  be  stored 
is  not  really  very  large.  The  total  volume 
projected  to  be  produced  for  storage  by  all 
nuclear  plants  through  the  end  of  the  cen- 
tury, there's  that  magic  year  again,  is  about  a 
million  cubic  feet,  or  basically  a  large  ball- 
room full,  about  200  by  200  by  25  feet  high. 
Considering  the  current  problems  we  have 
in  dealing  with  the  thirty  to  thirty-five  mil- 


It's  important  that  we  don't  sit  back  and  let  Congress 
try  to  rewrite  the  first,  second,  and  third  laws  of 
thermodynamics  —  and  then  watch  while  some 
people  in  Washington  attempt  to  implement  that 
legislation! 


lion  tons  of  coal  ash  every  year,  this  is  a 
rather  small-scale  problem,  even  when  we 
consider  the  toxicity  and  the  time  scales 
involved.  Consider  for  comparison  the  rela- 
tively primitive  engineering  techniques  that 
were  available  to  the  pharaohs;  they  built 
pyramids  which  protected  essentially  the 
same  kind  of  volume  we're  talking  about  for 
periods  on  the  order  of  3,000  to  5,000  years, 
which  is  about  what  we  have  to  aim  for.  And 
if  we  can't  do  it  better  now  than  the  pha- 
raohs were  able  to  do  it  then,  then  we  really 
have  not  progressed  very  far. 

In  concluding  I  think  a  few  remarks 
about  the  role  of  nuclear  fuels  might  be 
appropriate.  There  is  a  basic  problem  in 
attempting  to  rely  solely  or  even  very  much 
on  fossil  fuels.  Gas,  which  is  certainly  the 
most  desirable  fuel  from  an  environmental 
viewpoint,  is  in  far  too  short  a  supply  to  be 
used  at  new  central  stations,  and  even  exist- 
ing ones  are  having  a  great  deal  of  difficulty 
in  getting  it.  Oil,  whose  use  has  increased 
rather  dramatically  in  response  to  require- 
ments for  lower  sulfur  emissions  and  par- 
ticulate emissions,  was  seriously  threatened 
even  before  the  1973  Arab  oil  embargo  and 
the  dramatic  increases  in  prices.  The  U.S. 
holds  about  half  of  the  total  world  reserves 
of  coal,  about  600  or  900  years'  worth  of  our 
use  at  current  usage  rates.  But  coal  has 
become  a  dirty  word,  literally  as  well  as  fig- 
uratively, due  both  to  the  resouces  extrac- 
tion problems  and  to  the  sulfur  problems 
associated  with  it.  It  may  be  that  the  sulfur 
problem  will  be  successfully  dealt  with 
within  the  next  few  years,  but  current  atti- 
tudes on  surface  mining  (which  affects  well 
over  half  of  our  low  sulfur  coals)  may  elimi- 
nate a  very  large  fraction  of  our  reserves  of 
that  fossil  fuel  as  well.  So  for  the  bulk  of  our 
base-load  generating  capability,  it  appears 
that  nuclear  power  is  a  requirement  even  if 
our  growth  rate  is  slowed  down  and  only 
modest  growth  rates  are  maintained. 

Nuclear  power  plants,  any  more  than  any 
other  kind  of  industrial  plant  or  for  that 
matter  a  shopping  center,  can't  be  built 
without  having  some  environmental 
impact.  Nuclear  plants,  if  they're  located 
properly,  designed  properly  and  operated 
correctly,  can  have  an  essentially 
insignificant  impact  in  comparison  to  the 
benefits  derived  from  the  electric  energy 
they  produce  and  to  the  alternative  means  of 
generation  that  are  available  and  these  may 
not  be  very  many  in  the  not  too  distant 
future.  However,  it  is  important  that  we  do 
not  sit  back  and  let  Congress  try  to  rewrite 
the  first,  second,  and  third  laws  of  ther- 
modynamics and  watch  while  some  people 
in  Washington  attempt  to  implement  that 
legislation. 

U1PI 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974  /  13 


Nuclear  Reactors 
safe  or  not? 


by  Dr.  Norman  C.  Rasmussen 

What  kinds  of  accidents  could  happen  to 
a  nuclear  power  reactor?  And  just  what  is 
the  likelihood  of  any  of  these  actually 
happening?  For  an  involved  engineer's 
judgment,  consider  this  . . . 


Dr.  Norman  C.  Rasmussen  is  professor  of 
nuclear  engineering  at  Massachusetts  Insti- 
tute of  Technology  and  director  of  the  M.  I.  T. 
summer  course  in  nuclear  reactor  safety. 

A  graduate  of  Gettysburg  College,  Dr. 
Rasmussen  recieved  his  PhD  in  physics  from 
M.I.T.in  1956. 

He  serves  as  a  consultant  to  government 
and  industry,  including  the  A  EC,  the 
Nuclear  Energy  Property  Insurance  Associa- 
tion, Brookhaven  National  Laboratory 
Safety  Review  Committee,  and  the  New  York 
State  Atomic  and  Space  Development 
Authority.  He  recently  headed  up  a  one-year 
study  for  the  A  EC  evaluating  the  overall  risks 
from  reactor  accidents. 


T'hE  FIRST  THING  to  understand 
about  nuclear  reactor  safety  is  what  the 
risk  is.  The  risk  is  simply  the  release  of  the 
radioactive  content  of  the  core.  That's  about 
the  only  risk  that  anybody  conjures  up  as 
being  a  public  danger  and  it's  the  only  one 
I'm  aware  of.  One  thing  a  reactor  is  not  is  a 
potential  nuclear  explosive.  It  is  physically 
impossible  for  today's  reactors  to  detonate 
like  a  nuclear  weapon,  for  good  principles 
of  nuclear  reactor  physics.  Everybody  who's 
studied  the  matter  agrees  on  this.  So  the 
thing  we  worry  about  is  that,  in  the  course 
of  operation  of  this  plant,  we  accumulate  in 
the  core  some  1010  curies  of  radioactive  fis- 
sion products.  This  is  about  the  equivalent 
of  10,000  tons  of  radium;  it's  a  lot  of  radio- 
activity. We  are  therefore  obligated  as 
nuclear  engineers  to  give  a  high  degree  of 
confidence  that  this  amount  of  radioactivity 
or  any  significant  fraction  of  it  won't  be 
released  to  the  environment  where  it  could 
cause  serious  harm  to  the  public.  There's  no 
question  that  if  you  release  a  sizeable  frac- 
tion of  the  activity  in  the  core,  you'd  have  a 
very  serious  accident.  I  personally  don't 
believe  it  would  be  the  same  order  of  mag- 
nitude and  dimensions  that  the  nuclear 
reactor  critics  claim  it  would  be.  They  over- 
estimate the  effects  of  such  an  accident  by 
an  order  of  magnitude  or  more,  but  none- 
theless it's  a  bad  accident;  we  should  avoid  it 
and  make  its  possibility  of  occurrence  very 
low. 

The  radioactivity  in  the  core  of  the  reac- 
tor is  bound  up  in  the  fuel  itself,  which  is 
uranium  dioxide,  a  ceramic-like  material 
that  melts  at  about  5000°F.  And  in  fact  to 
release  this  radioactivity  in  any  substantial 
quantity  requires  the  melting  of  that  ura- 
nium dioxide.  So  the  problem  of  protecting 
the  public  from  serious  accidents  reduces  to 
one  of  assuring  ourselves  that  the  core  won't 
melt.  Certainly  there  are  lesser  releases  that 


14     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


we  also  want  to  protect  against,  but  the  very 
serious  accident  that  our  critics  worry  most 
about  is  an  accident  that  can  come  about 
only  if  we  melt  a  sizeable  fraction  of  ura- 
nium dioxide  core,  and  that  means  raise  it  to 
about  5000°F.  At  first  glance  that's  not  such 
a  difficult  problem,  but  it  turns  out  that, 
although  its  a  relatively  easy  matter  to 
assure  ourselves  that  the  chain  reaction  is 
shut  off  (and  the  surest  way  we  have  if  all 
else  fails  is  to  boil  the  water  away  because 
after  the  water  has  boiled  away  the  chain 
reaction  can  no  longer  proceed),  nonetheless 
this  1010  curies  of  radioactivity  generates 
heat  at  a  very  significant  rate.  Right  after  the 
reactor  shuts  down  it's  about  5  percent  of 
the  core  power.  Now  5  percent  may  not 
seem  like  much  but  a  large  power  station  is 
3,000  megawatts  and  5  percent  of  that  is  1 50 
megawatts.  In  1950  the  largest  power  gener- 
ating station  in  New  England  was  150 
megawatts,  and  that's  the  decay  heat  you're 
left  with  in  a  large  power  station  when  it  is 
first  shut  down.  This  heat  rate  gradually 
decays  as  the  radioactivity  dies  away,  but 
nonetheless  it  presents  a  heat  source  suf- 
ficient enough  under  adiabatic,  or  non- 
cooled,  conditions  to  melt  the  core.  And  so 
we  must  be  assured  that  we  continue  to 
maintain  cooling  of  that  core  even  after  the 
reactor  shuts  down. 

The  principal  accident  that  has  been  the 
controversy  over  the  last  two  years,  which  is 
a  design  basis  accident  for  the  power  plant, 
is  the  loss  of  the  coolant  water  from  the  pri- 
mary cooling  system.  You  recall  that  in  a 
reactor  you  have  a  series  of  pumps  which 
pump  water  through  the  core,  remove  the 
heat,  the  water  comes  out  either  in  the  form 
of  steam  or  hot  water  that's  used  to  generate 
steam  to  turn  the  turbine,  the  condenser 
condenses  that  water,  and  it  gets  pumped 
back  through  the  cycle  again.  Now  if  the 
primary  system,  which  in  a  reactor  typically 
operates  at  a  pressure  of  1000  to  2000  psi 
and  at  temperatures  of  about  600°F,  if  it 
ruptures  or  breaks,  it's  clear  that  the  water 
inside  will  rapidly  flash  to  steam  and  blow 
out  the  hole  and  we'll  be  quickly  left  with  a 
dry  or  essentially  dry  system.  That  is,  you'll 
have  lost  enough  water  that  you  can  no 
longer  circulate  it  and  cool  the  plant.  This  is 
a  recognized  problem  that's  dealt  with  by 
the  addition  of  what  we  call  the  emergency 
core  cooling  system  in  the  reactor.  The  sole 
function  of  that  system,  which  never  oper- 
ates under  normal  conditions,  is  to  be  there 
to  deliver  extra  water  to  flood  the  core  in 
case  the  primary  system  itself  loses  the 
water  that  normally  cools  the  core.  And  for 
two  years  there's  been  a  legal  proceeding  in 
Washington  arguing  the  pros  and  cons  of 
the  method  we  use  to  calculate  the  emer- 
gency core  cooling  effectiveness. 

As  a  result  of  those  two  years  of  hearings, 
in  December  1973  the  AEC  issued  a  set  of 
criteria  which  shall  be  used  by  all  utilities 
(and  that  means  the  vendors  that  supply 
them  must  show  the  utility  and  the  utilities 
show  the  AEC  that  their  plants  meet  those 


criteria)  which  assure  that  the  fuel  does  not 
exceed  2200°F  as  a  result  of  a  loss  of  cooling 
accident.  Now  2200°F  is  well  below  the 
point  we  think  the  fuel  gets  into  trouble. 
The  melting  point  of  the  cladding  is  about 
3300°F,  but  it  goes  under  severe  oxidation 
reactions  in  a  steam  atmosphere  and  begins 
to  deteriorate  at  temperatures  at  the  2700  or 
2800°  range.  So  the  AEC  feels  its  safe  if  you 
can  guarantee  that  you  don't  exceed  2200°. 
But  to  further  guarantee  that  you  don't 
exceed  2200°  they  specify  how  you  must 
calculate  what  temperature  you  achieve  as  a 
result  of  this  accident.  And  that  calculation 
includes,  as  you  might  guess,  a  large  num- 
ber of  conservatisms  because  the  blow  down 
of  this  large  primary  system  steam  into  the 
containment  is  a  rather  dramatic  and  com- 
plicated accident  whose  details,  even  with 
today's  largest  computer,  can't  be  calculated 
with  the  precision  that  we  might  desire. 
Nonetheless  we  use  what  all  engineers  use 
and  that  is  conservative  values  for  the  vari- 
ous quantities  needed  in  the  calculation  to 
calculate  an  outer  bound  of  what's  the  worst 
that  could  be.  And  that's  exactly  what  the 
AEC  requires.  They  make  you  assume  a 
whole  variety  of  pessimistic  assumptions  in 
your  calculations  to  assure  yourself  that  the 
2200°  you  calculate  is  in  fact  the  worst  pos- 
sible temperature  it  could  achieve  and  not 
what  you  anticipate  it  might.  In  fact,  people 
who  calculate  it  on  their  best  engineering 
judgment  calculate  that  the  temperature 
achieved  in  these  accidents  is  between  1200- 
1400°.  In  such  accidents,  the  good  engi- 
neering estimate  is  that  we  would  expect 
that  you  would  get  1200  to  1400°  in  the 
worst  kinds  of  accidents;  the  fuel  gets  in 
trouble  at  2800°,  and  so  the  margin  of  safety 
is  some  1400°  —  nothing  happens  to  the 


they'll  find  that  there  are  other  points  to 
argue  about  that  may  be  more  fruitful  to 
them,  that  is  where  the  research  work  isn't 
as  detailed  and  the  amount  of  hard  informa- 
tion isn't  as  complete.  And  so  they  raise  a 
number  of  other  issues  that  I  thought  would 
be  worthwhile  to  outline  here. 

One  in  the  forefront  today  is  the  failure  of 
the  pressure  vessel  itself,  of  the  plant.  In  a 
large  modern  nuclear  power  station,  the 
pressure  vessel  is  a  steel  vessel.  It's  typically 
between  10  and  15  feet  in  diameter  and 
between  30  and  60  feet  high  and  it  must 
contain  the  primary  water  at  pressures 
between  1000-2000  psi.  It  is  felt  that  the 
failure  of  that  vessel  is  so  unlikely  that  there 
are  no  systems  in  the  reactor  to  defend 
against  its  failure.  And  should  it  fail  in  a  cat- 
astrophic way,  there's  little  question  but 
what  the  core  would  be  uncoolable  and  it 
would  melt  by  virtue  of  its  fission  product 
heat.  And  the  argument  today  is,  how  con- 
fident are  we  that  pressure  vessels  won't  fail 
by  some  of  the  mechanisms  by  which  steels 
have  been  known  to  fail?  Probably  the  best 
compiled  document  for  the  case  of  the  prob- 
ability of  pressure  vessel  failure  has  been 
recently  released  by  the  Advisory  Com- 
mittee on  Reactor  Safeguards.  This  a  com- 
mittee of  fifteen  eminent  scientists  who 
review  all  reactors  and  reactor  projects  and 
report  to  the  AEC  their  findings  relative  to 
their  safety,  at  least  in  regard  to  their  safety 
as  far  as  public  risk  is  concerned.  And  this 
body  of  people  has  issued  a  generic  report  of 
their  consideration  of  the  pressure  vessel 
failure  argument  and  what  they  find.  They 
have  compiled  from  various  sources 
throughout  the  United  States  and  the  world 
the  statistics  on  the  behavior  of  pressure 
vessels  in  other  kinds  of  service. 


In  1 950,  the  largest  electric  power  generating  sta- 
tion in  New  England  was  1 50  megawatts;  that  repre- 
sents the  decay  heat  you're  left  with  when  you  first 
shut  down  a  large  nuclear  reactor. 


fuel.  However,  the  outside  limit  we  think 
we  could  ever  get,  if  all  our  best  engineering 
judgment  is  wrong  in  the  most  pessimistic 
way,  is  that  it  might  be  as  high  as  2200°  and 
we  still  have  about  300  to  400°  margin  to 
safety.  So  that  issue  has  been  argued  and  I 
don't  know  if  it  has  been  put  to  bed  because 
the  interveners  have  the  right  to  take  this  to 
the  courts  now  if  they're  not  satisfied  with 
the  AEC's  judgment.  There's  no  indication 
yet  that  they  intend  to  do  so.  Rather  I  think 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974  I  15 


In  the  nuclear  business  we  have  barely  a 
few  thousand  vessels  years  of  history  on 
which  to  base  our  statistics  so  that's  not 
enough  to  convince  ourselves  that  the  fail- 
ure probability  is  one  in  a  million  or  one  in 
ten  million  or  some  number  that  we'd  be 
happy  with.  The  American  Boiler  Manu- 
facturers Association  has  worked  in  recent 
years  compiling  all  the  information  known 
about  the  performance  of  boilers  in  the 
United  States.  They've  specifically  limited 
their  investigation  to  boilers  in  use  in  com- 
mercial electric  generating  stations.  These 
are  typically  boilers  manufactured  since 
1939,  either  under  ASME  Section  1  or  Sec- 
tion 8,  two  codes  that  have  been  commonly 
used  to  specify  the  way  the  vessel  should  be 
manufactured,  operated  and  serviced, 
inspected  and  so  on.  Their  accumulated 
records  show  723,000  vessel  years  of  service 
and  no  catastrophic  failures  of  those  vessels. 
By  catastrophic  I  mean  a  failure  big  enough 
so  that  had  it  occurred  in  a  nuclear  vessel,  it 
would  have  denied  us  the  use  of  the  emer- 
gency core  cooling  system  to  recover  from 
the  accident.  They  have  found  some  ten  or 
twenty  "potentially  disruptive"  failures. 
These  were  small  failures,  cracks,  leaks  and 
so  on,  which  if  left  unattended  and  allowed 
to  propagate  through  thermal  cycling  or 
other  means,  could  have  lead  to  a  larger 
break  in  the  vessel.  All  of  these  cases  were 
detected  and  repaired  in  time  and  the  ves- 
sels put  back  into  service.  Many  of  them 
were  characteristic  cracks  around  small 
penetrations  in  the  vessel  which  of  course 
don't  exist  in  nuclear  vessels  by  and  large. 
They  also  reviewed  the  data  of  the  British, 
which  have  about  100,000  years  of  vessel 
service,  and  some  data  the  Germans  have 
gotten  together  on  a  much  broader  class  fo 
vessels,  down  to  a  very  small  vessels  for  a 
variety  of  applications  other  than  power 
plants,  a  total  accumulated  experience  there 
of  about  1 .7  million  vessel  years  of  service. 
The  combination  of  all  this  data  in  which 
there  are  no  disruptive  accidents  in  vessels 
similar  to  the  kind  used  in  nuclear  service, 
that  is  large  vessels  in  power  plants,  but  a 
few  have  been  noted  in  smaller  services.  At 
any  rate,  as  a  result  of  statistical  analysis  of 
all  this  data,  they  conclude  that  in  non- 
nuclear  service,  the  history  of  statistical  data 
from  these  three  sources  —  Germany.  Brit- 
ain and  the  U.S.  —  provides  ample  reason  to 
believe  with  99  percent  confidence  that  the 
failure  rate  of  such  vessels  is  less  than  1  in 
100,000  per  vessel  per  year.  They  further 
reviewed  the  techniques  used  to  fabricate 
nuclear  vessels,  which  are  much  stricter. 
They  are  what  we  call  Section  3  of  the 
ASME  code.  They  are  much  stricter  in 
terms  of  the  class  of  materials  that  arc  quali- 
fied for  such  service,  in  terms  of  the  fabrica- 
tion techniques,  in  terms  of  the  quality 
assurance  procedures,  in  terms  of  the  in- 
service  conditions  that  are  allowed  —  they 
may  be  cycled  thermally  fewer  times,  thev 
must  be  inspected  more  often,  and  the  code 
also  specifies  what  kinds  of  inspection 


It  is  physically  impossible  for  today's  reactors  to 
detonate  like  a  nuclear  weapon,  for  good  principles 
of  nuclear  reactor  physics. 


should  be  used.  In  considering  all  these  fac- 
tors that  would  lead  one  to  believe  that 
nuclear  vessels  in  fact  may  be  even  safer 
than  the  other  vessels  on  which  the  10s  num- 
ber were  based,  the  ACR  concluded  that 
one  could  conservatively  assume  a  factor  of 
about  10  better  for  nuclear  vessels.  They 
feel  that  it  may  even  be  better  than  that,  but 
they're  quite  confident  that  it's  a  factor  of  10 
better.  So  what  they  finally  concluded  was 
that  the  failure  rate  of  nuclear  vessels,  with 
99  percent  confidence,  was  less  than  106  or  1 
in  1,000,000  per  vessel  per  year.  Now  the 
question  remains,  is  that  a  low  enough  prob- 
ability to  satisfy  people?  We  as  engineers 
can  suggest  what's  reasonable  probability, 
but  really  society  must  decide  and  it  won't 
decide  blind.  You've  got  to  point  out  to 
them  what  are  the  risks  they  take  and  so  on. 
But  the  AEC  has  suggested  through  its 
regulatory  division  that  a  failure  rate  of  less 
than  106  per  plant  per  year  of  a  kind  worse 
than  the  plant  is  designed  to  handle,  that's 
for  these  very  serious  accidents,  would  be  an 
acceptable  design  goal. 

There  are  several  other  issues  that  keep 
coming  up,  not  having  to  do  with  the  equip- 
ment or  the  plant  itself.  One  particular  one 
that  keeps  surfacing  is  the  safeguarding  of 
nuclear  materials.  The  threat  that  some 
demented  or  otherwise  erratic  person  will  try 
and  steal  in  some  way  enough  materials  to 
fabricate  a  crude  explosive,  thereby 
blackmail  or  somehow  threaten  society,  is  a 
real  threat  that  we  shouldn't  pass  by  lightly. 
We  should  defend  as  best  we  can  the  fuel 
cycle  from  such  attempts  at  diversion.  For- 
tunately, in  the  commercial  reactor  fuel 


cycle  we  operate  with  lightly  enriched  ura- 
nium, less  than  5  percent  U235.  This  mate- 
rial as  it  stands  is  not  at  all  suitable  for  the 
manufacture  of  a  nuclear  explosive  —  in 
fact,  it's  impossible  to  do  with  that  kind  of 
material.  The  only  place  in  the  commercial 
fuel  cycle  where  one  runs  across  something 
that  could  be  fabricated  into  an  explosive  ii 
in  the  plutonium  that's  produced  in  the  fue 
during  operations  and  extracted  from  the 
fuel  at  the  reprocessing  plant.  This  material 
although  not  what  the  military  people 
would  call  weapons  grade,  is  in  fact  a  mate- 
rial that  a  crude  device  could  be  made  frorr 
Our  most  outspoken  opponents  argue  that 
because  of  this  threat  we  should  cease  and 
desist  with  the  nuclear  power  program  in 
this  country.  I  think  my  basic  argument  to 
that  is  as  follows.  If  we  stopped  all  nuclear 
power  plants  in  this  country,  there  is  no 
question  that  there  would  be  some  reduc- 
tion in  the  potential  risks  of  threats  of  this 
kind.  However,  the  most  desirable  things  t( 
divert  from  such  a  person  are  not  cans  of 
plutonium  dioxide  from  a  reprocessing 
plant  but  completed  weapons  from  the  mili- 
tary or  parts  of  completed  weapons  from  th( 
production  that  goes  into  making  the  mili- 
tary devices.  And  so  by  far  the  biggest  threa 
from  this  source  comes  not  from  the  nuclear 
power  industry  at  all  but  from  this  nation's 
and  at  least  four  other  nations'  programs  to 
manufacture  nuclear  explosives  for  the  pur- 
poses of  national  security  and  in  a  few  cases 
for  purposes  of  civilian  applications.  And  so 
what  we  would  do  is  give  up  all  the  benefits 
that  nuclear  power  offers  for  a  very  small 
reduction  in  the  total  risk  of  threats  of  this 


We  could  pack  up  our  nuclear  wastes  in  a  rocket  and 
fire  it  off  to  the  sun  —  but  we  want  to  make  surethat  if 
the  rocket  falls  back  to  earth  the  waste  capsule  won't 
deteriorate  or  break  open.  And  looking  at  the  matter 
as  an  engineer,  if  we  can  make  it  that  good,  why  not 
put  the  material  in  the  can,  set  it  somewhere  on 
earth,  and  forget  about  it? 


76     October  Vi/ 4      WPI  Journal 


kind,  which  seems  to  me  not  a  sensible  or 
rational  policy  for  society  to  follow. 

There  are  other  things  that  our  critics 
worry  about.  One  of  the  most  commonly 
spoken  of  is  the  waste  from  nuclear  plants. 
Nuclear  plants  in  the  1,000  megawatt  size 

produce  about  1  ton  of  very  highly  radio- 
active waste  a  year.  It  is  a  very  nasty  mate- 
rial that  must  be  handled  carefully  and  must 
be  sealed  in  such  a  way  that  it  doesn't  get 
into  the  biosphere  where  it'll  get  in  our  food 
cycle.  The  worst  part  of  this  material  has  a 
half-life  of  twenty  or  thirty  years  but  there 
are  trace  elements  with  half-lives  of  thou- 
sands of  years  in  this  material.  Our  critics 
argue  that  we  leave,  through  the  generation 
of  power  by  nuclear  means,  a  legacy  to 
unborn  generations  that  we  have  no  right  to 
leave.  There  is  no  question  that  we  leave 
something  that  will  be  around  for  a  long 
time.  I  think  though  that  there  are  ways  that 
we  can  deal  with  it  safely  and  protect  it  in 
such  a  way  that  it  won't  get  into  the 
biosphere. 

Let  me  point  out  that  one  ton  of  material 
produced  in  the  generation  of  about  $100 
million  worth  of  electricity  is  not  a  very  big 
problem,  because  you  can  take  a  rather  large 
amount  of  dollars  per  ton,  without  ever 
noticing  it,  off  the  top  of  that  $100  million 
worth  of  electricity  that  this  1 ,000  megawatt 
plant  generates  each  year.  And  so  we  can 
afford  an  enormous  amount  of  money  with- 
out ever  affecting  the  cost  of  electricity  to 
assure  ourselves  that  this  material  doesn't 
get  free  in  the  environment  and  affect  future 
generations.  Now  the  current  policy  of  the 
Atomic  Energy  Commission  is  that  this 
material  be  converted  into  a  glassy  like  sub- 
stance that's  insoluble  in  water  and  normal 
environments  that  you  encounter,  and 
encapsulate  it  and  store  it  in  what's  called 
interim  storage,  whose  length  of  storage  is 
felt  to  be  20-50  years,  while  we  decide  on 
which  of  these  technologies  we  want  to  use 
to  dispose  of  it  in  its  ultimate  way.  There  are 
at  least  three  techniques  currently  under 
investigation,  any  one  of  which  looks  like  it 
has  the  capability  of  ultimately  getting  rid 
of  this  material.  One  is  burying  it  in  deep 
layers  of  salt  underneath  the  country.  The 
country  is  underlain  with  salt  about  one- 
third  of  the  area  in  depths  of  1,000  to  a  few 
thousand  feet,  in  seams  from  a  few  hundred 
to  a  few  thousand  feet  thick,  and  it  provides 
a  very  good  place  to  store  something  per- 
manently for  several  reasons.  One  is  the 
fact  that  the  salt  has  been  there  for  geologi- 
cal times  means  that  there  are  not  under- 
ground water  streams  or  the  salt  would  have 
dissolved  and  been  washed  away.  So  there's 
no  problem  of  underground  waters  in  bed- 
ded salt.  Earthquakes,  which  might  tend  to 
crack  and  cause  faults  in  other  kinds  of  geo- 
logical formations,  crack  and  cause  faults  in 
salt,  but  it's  a  plastic  material  that  reseals  and 
it  makes  a  sealed  containment  around  your 
radioactivity  even  if  temporary  cracks 
develop.  And  finally  salt  is  a  good  ion 


exchange  medium  so  that  any  radioactivity 
gets  loose  immediately  gets  trapped  on  the 
salt  and  still  doesn't  move  anywhere  into  the 
environment.  So  for  all  these  reasons  it 
seems  to  be  the  most  desirable  method. 

There  are  other  methods,  including  such 
things  as  firing  the  wastes  off  into  the  sun. 
It's  within  the  realm  of  our  technological 
capability  now  and  even  at  today's  prices 
wouldn't  make  electricity  prohibitive  from 
this  source.  There  are  however  some  safety 
problems  involved  with  that  because  we'd 
want  to  assure  ourselves  that  should  our 
rocket  fail,  the  capsule  won't  deteriorate 
when  re-entering  the  atmosphere  and  com- 
ing back  to  earth.  And  as  an  engineer  when  I 
look  at  it,  if  you  make  the  capsule  good 
enough  to  survive  all  that,  why  not  just  can  it 
and  set  it  somewhere  on  the  earth  and  forget 
about  it.  And  there  are  other  kinds  of  geolog- 
ical disposal.  There  are  places  where  the 
earth's  crust  is  going  down  toward  the 
core  and  its  been  suggested  that  the  radio- 
activity be  buried  in  these  places  and  in  geo- 
logical time  it'll  move  into  the  earth's  core 
and  be  gone  as  far  as  getting  into  the 
biosphere  is  concerned.  So  all  these  things 
seem  to  be  reasonable  ultimate  disposals. 
None  of  them  have  been  developed  to  the 
point  of  being  put  into  full-scale  operation 
and  a  temporary  storage  scheme  is  the  one 
currently  being  used. 


the  time  would  have  been  consumed  by  nor- 
mal expected  shut  downs  for  repair,  main- 
tenance, and  refueling,  and  the  other  20 
percent  or  so  has  been  because  of  unex- 
pected failures  in  plant  equipment  that 
required  the  plant  to  be  shut  down  for 
unpredicted  repair.  About  half  of  this  shut 
down  time  was  due  to  the  non-nuclear  parts 
of  the  system  and  about  half  was  due  to  the 
nuclear  parts  of  the  system.  I  don't  think 
that's  an  outstanding  record.  About  the  only 
thing  I  can  say  in  its  defense  is  that  its 
exactly  the  same  record  that  large  fossil  fuel 
plants  put  into  service  and  operated  over  the 
last  ten  years  also  exhibited.  I  think  both  can 
be  improved. 

I  think  our  critics  have  a  point  when  they 
say  unreliability  is  in  their  minds  unsafety. 
Well,  I  think  reliability  is  related  to  safety 
because  certainly  unexpected  events  all  have 
the  potential  of  creating  a  safety  problem. 
Our  record's  been  outstanding.  The  things 
that  have  gone  wrong,  even  in  vital  systems 
when  they've  happened  have  not  come  close 
to  compromising  the  plant  or  getting  it  into 
any  condition  close  to  melting  the  fuel.  And 
for  that  we  should  thank  the  engineers  who 
put  in  a  great  amount  of  redundancy  and  the 
regulatory  agencies  who  require  it  to  defend 
against  all  kinds  of  unexpected  break  downs 
and  failures  of  the  system.  There's  never 
been  a  major  release  from  a  nuclear  plant. 


I  don't  think  nuclear  plants  have  had  an  outstanding 
record  of  reliability.  But  it'sexactly  the  same  record 
as  fossil  fuel  plants  put  into  service  during  the  last 
ten  years. 


I  would  point  out  that  any  other  way  we 
generate  electricity  leaves  a  legacy  to  our 
unborn  generations,  whether  it  be  the  mil- 
lions of  tons  of  CO2  we  put  into  the  atmo- 
sphere that  could  change  the  earth's  climate, 
whether  it  be  the  depletion  of  our  fossil 
fuels  or  the  creation  of  enormous  ash  piles 
from  the  burning  coal  —  any  one  of  these  is  a 
serious  deprivation  of  future  generations  if 
they  desire  to  use  these  resources  too,  and  I 
think  we  all  realize  that.  So  a  lot  of  the 
things  we  do  leave  a  legacy  to  unborn  gener- 
ations and  I  hate  to  see  the  argument  used 
just  against  nuclear.  I  thing  we  ought  to  be 
careful  about  everything  we  use. 

That  reviews  some  of  the  key  arguments 
that  the  critics  raise  against  us.  They  contin- 
ually argue  about  the  reliability  of  these 
plants.  Our  reliability  record  has  not  been 
outstanding  with  nuclear  plants.  In  the  last 
ten  years  their  availability  for  the  genera- 
tion of  power  has  been  about  at  the  rate  of 
68  percent  of  the  available  time  had  they 
actually  been  able  to  generate  and  deliver 
electricity.  About  10  percent  of  the  rest  of 


There  has  never  been  a  claim  against  a 
nuclear  plant  by  a  third  party  for  injury  to 
them  by  virtue  of  nuclear  incidents  in  the 
plant.  That's  an  outstanding  record  which  I 
think  we'll  only  continue  to  achieve  if  we're 
diligent  and  pay  attention  to  safety  details. 
I'd  surely  like  to  see  us  get  the  reliability  of 
the  plants  higher.  I  think  that's  achievable, 
and  the  pay-off  is  enormous.  Any  utiltiy 
which  can  get  1 0  percent  extra  out  of  its  plant 
gets  about  1,000  extra  hours  of  operation  a 
year,  and  this  comes  to  several  million  dollars, 
worth  of  electricity  extra  a  year,  and  the  pay- 
off is  really  real.  I  don't  think  in  general  the 
utilities  have  devoted  enough  effort  to  this 
problem  but  the  Electric  Power  Research 
Institute  is  committing  substantial  funds  to 
reliability  studies  and  I  think  this  will 
improve  rapidly. 

The  basic  argument  between  the  nuclear 
power  proponents  and  the  critics  centers 
around  this:  there  are  risks  from  the  opera- 
tion of  the  nuclear  plant,  risks  of  rather  seri- 
ous and  bad  accidents.  The  critics  say  the 
risk  is  much  too  high;  the  proponents  say 


WPI  Journal     October!  974     17 


Any  way  we  generate  electricity  leaves  a  legacy  to 
our  unborn  generation,  whether  it  be  CO2  in  the  air 
that  could  change  the  climate,  whether  it  be  the 
depletion  of  fossil  fuels  or  the  creation  of  enormous 
ash  piles,  whether  it  be  buried  atomic  waste 
products. 


the  risk  is  very  small  and  acceptable;  and 
that's  really  the  battleground  that  we're 
fighting  in.  It's  very  hard  to  prove  that 
you're  safe  as  1  in  a  million  per  year  because 
there  are  no  statistics  to  prove  it  so  its  a  very 
fruitful  ground  for  them  to  press  their  argu- 
ment. And  so  in  looking  at  this  you  must 
always  ask  yourself,  well  if  there's  a  risk, 
and  there  is,  what  are  the  consequences  of 
not  going  with  nuclear  power?  We  now  pro- 
pose to  have  in  operation  in  this  country 
about  one  hundred  1,000  megawatt  electric 
generating  stations  from  nuclear  power 
within  six  or  seven  years,  by  the  early  1980s. 
And  I  ask  myself,  What  alternative  would 
we  have?  Well,  in  today's  world  climate  the 
only  alternative  we  have  here  in  the  United 
States,  I  would  argue,  is  coal.  The  potential 
for  buying  enough  oil  I  feel  is  out  of  the 
question.  The  price  is  out  of  the  question. 
We  have  substantial  amounts  of  coal  and  we 
can  generate  the  power  that  way  and  I'll 
gladly  argue  with  anyone  that  there's  not 
other  technology  available,  now  or  other- 
wise, that  could  be  brought  on  line  in  this 
quantity  and  this  size  by  1983.  So  let  me  ask 
then,  what  is  the  difference  to  society 
between  operating  100  coal  stations  at  the 
1,000  megawatt  level  or  100  nuclear 
stations? 

What  I'm  going  to  talk  about  is  the 
annual  effect  of  one  hundred  1 ,000  megawatt 
electric  power  plants.  Now,  a  1,000  mega- 
watt power  station  is  an  enormous  piece  of 
equipment  that  generates  enormous 
amounts  of  energy.  Just  to  put  it  in  per- 
spective, a  1 ,000  megawatt  coal  plant  con- 
sumes coal  at  the  rate  of  10,000  tons  a  day. 
That  is,  a  1 00-car  freight  train  load  is  pulled 
up  to  the  plant  and  dumped  every  day.  In 
fact  it  consumes  coal  so  fast  that  they  can  no 


longer  dump  coal  cars  by  opening  that  little 
hatch  at  the  bottom.  They  actually  pick 
them  up  and  turn  them  over  to  dump  the 
coal  out.  Otherwise  it  takes  too  long  to  get 
the  coal  into  the  bin.  A  plant  this  size  uses  3 
million  tons  of  coal  a  year.  If  it  were  an  oil 
plant  it  would  burn  about  12  million  barrels 
of  oil  a  year,  and  that's  enough  to  heat 
250,000  homes  in  the  city  of  Worcester  for 
that  same  year.  It's  just  enormous  magni- 
tudes we're  talking  about  that  few  people 
perceive  or  realize  who  haven't  really  gotten 
close  to  these  plants  and  thought  about  it. 
Now  let's  ask  ourself  what's  the  health 
effect?  The  best  article  I  know  that  discusses 
these  effects  is  one  by  Lave  and  Freeburg 
which  appeared  in  a  recent  issue  of  Nuclear 
Safety  and  I  recommend  it  to  you.  They've 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  if  you  compare 
the  effects  of  health  of  air  pollution  from 
coal  plants  versus  the  effects  on  health  of 
low  levels  of  radioactivity  emitted  from 
nuclear  plants,  the  coal  plants  are  24  to 
18,000  times  a  bigger  health  hazard  so  let 
me  just  call  that  worse.  24  comes  from  the 
old  boiling  water  reactors  which  released  a 
significant  amount  of  short-lived  radio- 
activity from  their  air  ejectors  on  their  con- 
densers, and  18,000  is  the  best  new 
pressurized  water  reactor  which  has  very 
low  emissions.  And  new  boiling  water  reac- 
tors are  at  least  50  times  better  than  this,  so 
for  new  plants  it's  about  1,000-18,000 
depending  on  the  variety  of  plant  you  use. 
What  about  the  health  effects  on  the  work- 
ers? This  is  to  the  general  public.  In  mining 
that  coal  we  would  expect  from  coal  mine 
statistics  to  have  between  300  and  400  min- 
ers killed.  (This  actually  is  the  number  for 
the  whole  fuel  cycle  but  most  of  the  acci- 
dental deaths  occur  in  the  mines  so  we'll  put 


A 1 ,000  megawatt  coal  plant  consumes  1 0,000  tons 
of  coal  a  day —a  1 00-carfreight  train  —  so  fast  that 
they  can  no  longer  dump  coal  cars  by  opening  the 
hatch  in  the  bottom.  They  pick  them  up  and  turn 
them  over. 


it  down  there.)  300  represents  the  surface 
mining,  400  the  underground  mining.  In 
nuclear  operations,  about  15  to  22.  Again 
remember,  this  is  for  100  plants,  the  coal 
needed  for  100  plants.  The  long-term  health 
effects,  which  include  such  things  as  black 
lung,  about  18  times  worse  in  the  coal  min- 
ing industry  than  the  effects  of  lung  cancer 
and  other  diseases  which  sometimes  appear 
in  uranium  miners.  Just  to  give  you  an  idea 
of  these  chronic  effects  in  the  coal  mine 
industry  in  the  United  States,  in  1972  the 
U.S.  government  paid  out  $554  million  in 
claims  for  black  lung  disability  —  a  half  a 
billion  dollars  in  health  claims  just  from  the 
coal  industry  alone.  It's  a  substantial  item. 
We  hope  it'll  get  better  with  new  mining 
regulations,  but  we  just  don't  have  statistics 
enough  to  know  how  much  impact  that'll 
have.  Presumably  it'll  be  better.  Presum- 
ably the  nuclear  part  will  be  better  with  the 
new  health  effects  there  too.  Bear  in  mind 
that  each  miner  can  mine  so  much  more  fuel 
(in  terms  of  the  megawatts  it  produces)  in 
uranium  that  there  are  substantially  fewer 
miners  needed,  and  that's  basically  the  rea- 
son that  the  numbers  are  so  different. 

How  about  air  pollution?  In  air  pollution, 
there  are  about  20  million  tons  of  particu- 
lates released  per  year  from  these  hundred 
coal  plants.  There  are  about  10  million  tons 
of  SO2.  There  are  about  100,000  tons  of  car- 
bon monoxide.  And  there  are  about  2  mil- 
lion tons  of  NOx.  The  nuclear  plant,  of 
course,  has  none.  No  chemical  pollutants 
are  emitted  from  a  nuclear  plant,  no  chem- 
ical air  pollutants  other  than  the  diesel  gen- 
erator which  is  tested  regularly. 

Now,  waste.  From  a  fossil  fuel  plant  with 
uncontrolled  burning,  so  that  most  of  the 
stuff  is  in  this  particulate  number,  there  are 
still  about  5  million  tons  of  ashes.  And  the 
nuclear  is  1  ton  of  waste  per  plant,  that's  100 
tons  of  highly  radioactive  waste. 

Environmental  effects.  It  requires,  if  we 
strip  mine,  the  tearing  up  of  140,000  acres  to 
get  the  coal  and  it  requires  1600  acres  if  we 
strip  mine  the  uranium  —  substantial  differ- 
ence in  the  amount  of  environmental  impact 
from  the  mining. 

Finally  the  economics.  At  today's  price 
structure,  nuclear  plants  have  somewhere 
between  0.5  and  lc  advantage  in  the  price 
per  electricity  per  kilowatt  hour.  Let  me 
point  out  to  you  that  today's  nuclear  plants 
generally  can  achieve  electrical  production 
at  the  cost  of  about  1.2  to  1.5c  per  kilowatt 
hour.  Oil  at  the  cost  of  $6  a  barrel  is  a  fuel 
cost  of  lc  per  kilowatt  hour,  to  which  we 
have  to  add  the  capital  costs  and  operating 
costs  of  the  plant,  which  put  oil  between 
2  and  3c  a  kilowatt  hour  (and  oil  today  is 
closer  to  $10  a  barrel.)  Coal  is  somewhat 
lower  than  that,  probably  around  1.9  to  2c; 
it  depends  how  close  you  are  to  the  mine.  So 
with  domestic  coal  there's  0.5c  difference. 
With  oil  the  nuclear  advantage  is  more  like 
lc.  What  does  that  mean?  We  have  100 
plants.  Let's  assume  they  operate  for  6,000 
hours  a  year.  That  gives  the  annual  savings 


18     October  1''  WPI  Journal 


To  calculate  the  worst-case  accident  involving  a 
commercial  airliner,  we  would  have  to  assume  it 
crashed  into  the  Rose  Bowl  during  the  afternoon  of 
New  Year's  Day;  thousands  of  people  would  be 
killed.  But  the  risk  of  that  happening  is  very  small. 
And  the  risk  of  nuclear  accidents  is  in  the  same 
range  as  that. 


to  society  of  somewhere  between  $3  and  $6 
billion.  That's  not  a  small  amount  of  money 
to  be  sneezed  at.  We've  always  felt  in  this 
country,  particularly  during  the  50's  and 
60's,  that  we  had  all  the  capital  we  wanted  to 
do  anything  we  wanted.  We're  fast  becom- 
ing a  capital-short  rather  than  a  capital-rich 
country,  as  the  interest  rates  show  us.  I 
would  submit  that  to  be  able  to  save  society 
$3  to  6  billion  for  some  other  activity  is  a 
worthwhile  thing  to  try  and  achieve. 

Against  all  these  advantages  for  nuclear 
power  we  must  weigh  the  chance  that  they 
can  cause  an  accident  much  more  severe 
than  a  coal  plant  accident  of  any  kind  we  can 
imagine.  And  we  have  to  decide  for  our- 
selves what  probability  we're  willing  to 


accept  for  such  a  severe  accident.  We  have 
been  working  for  two  years  in  Washington 
to  try  and  define  what  this  risk  is,  both  its 
probability  and  its  consequences.  The 
results  aren't  out  yet,  but  basically  we  find 
no  alarmingly  high  probability.  I  think  its 
fair  for  you  to  assume  that  means  some 
number  like  1  in  1,000,000  or  less  is  prob- 
ably in  the  range  that  our  results  might 
come  out.  What  we  also  find  is  that  the  most 
likely  consequence  of  melting  the  core  is  a 
much  smaller  accident  than  that  perceived 
by  the  critics  of  nuclear  power.  They  get 
their  very  bad  accident  by  not  only  assum- 
ing the  core  melts,  they  assume  it  melts  in 
the  worst  way,  the  worst  thing  happens,  the 
worst  weather  exists,  the  highest  population 


exists  around  the  plant,  and  predict  rather 
staggering  numbers  of  fatalities  and  injuries 
as  a  result  of  this.  There  is  a  rather  high 
number  if  you  really  dump  the  whole  fis- 
sion product  inventory  out  into  the  atmo- 
sphere under  the  very  worst  conditions,  but 
the  probability  of  such  an  event  is  many 
grders  of  magnitude  down  from  what  you 
would  ordinarily  expect  to  happen. 

If  I  asked  you  what's  the  likely  con- 
sequence of  an  airplane  crash,  you'd  say  1 00 
or  200  or  300  people  killed.  But  we've  done 
calculations  to  see  what  we  get  if  we  take  this 
same  kind  of  approach  toward  airplane 
crashes,  and  we  find  that  airplanes  can  crash 
and  cause  between  10,000  and  20,000 
deaths.  This  comes  about  simply  because 
airplanes  fly  over  places  where  large  groups 
of  people  congregate.  Specifically,  take  the 
Rose  Bowl  during  the  Rose  Bowl  game  or 
any  one  of  our  many  sports  stadiums,  race 
tracks  or  other  public  events  during  the  time 
that  the  activity  is  going  on.  The  probability 
is  very  small  that  an  airplane  will  crash  into 
them,  but  there  seems  no  question  that  if  it 
crashed  into  the  crowded  stands  of  one  of 
these  stadiums,  literally  thousands  of  people 
would  be  killed.  Now  I  think  we  all  under- 
stand that,  and  we  judge  that  the  risk  is  very 
small.  I  think  the  risks  from  these  nuclear 
accidents  are  in  the  same  range  as  that.  And 
I  think  they're  perfectly  acceptable  for  the 
benefits  we  get.  mm 


Drawing  by  Chas.  Addams;  ©  1974 
The  New  Yorker  Magazine,  Inc. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1974  /  19 


Power  production 
and  the  public  interest? 
What's  that? 


by  Myron  M.  Cherry 

So  you  think  the  Atomic  Energy 
Commission  knows  all  about  nuclear 
power?  Then  you  probably  believe  it 
serves  the  interest  of  the  general 
public,  too  . . . 


Myron  M.  Cherry  is  an  attorney  with  the 
Chicago  firm  ofjenner  &  Block.  He  attended 
the  University  of  Illinois  and  the  North- 
western University  Law  School,  graduating 
in  1962.  Since  1970  he  has  specialized  in 
environmental  litigation,  being  particularly 
concerned  with  the  "lack  of  rational  behavior 
in  the  construction  and  operation  of  nuclear 
power  plants.  "  He  has  represented  citizens' 
and  environmental  groups  throughout  the 
country  in  opposing  nuclear  power  plants.  He 
is  counsel  to  Ralph  Nader  and  the  Friends  of 
the  Earth  in  a  lawsuit  seeking  to  shut  down 
nuclear  power  reactors  throughout  the  United 
state  and  local  agencies  in  connection  with 
state  and  local  angencies  in  connection  with 
power  siting  bills,  nuclear  moratorium  bills, 
and  particularly  bills  dealing  with  increasing 
the  ability  of  the  public  to  participate  in  gov- 
ernmental decisions  concerning  power 
production. 


I  HOPE  TO  SUGGEST  some  ways  of 
solving  what  I  choose  to  call  an 
accountability  crisis  rather  than  an  energy 
crises.  Participatory  decision-making  is  an 
accepted  theorem  of  our  form  of  govern- 
ment, business  and  other  institutions.  In 
practice,  however,  we  make  decisions  in  a 
manner  which  avoids  as  much  as  possible 
factoring  in  all  of  the  various  interests. 
More  specifically  in  terms  of  power  produc- 
tion, decision-making  has  been  monopo- 
lized by  a  few  and  ripped  from  the  grasp  of 
the  many.  Historically  the  interests  which 
have  made  decisions  have  been  the  ones  to 
profit  handsomely  and  enormously,  and  the 
interests  which  have  gone  unrepresented 
have  suffered  and  been  abused.  These 
abuses  have  run  the  energy  gamut  from 
being  subjected  to  unreliable,  dangerous, 
and  unethical  ventures  such  as  nuclear  fis- 
sion plants  to  slick  ad  campaigns  that  tells  us 
to  brush,  wash,  cook,  and  make  love  electri- 
cally, and  portray  a  juvenile  he-man  philos- 
ophy in  being  able  to  pop  a  can  of  beer,  all 
more  expensive  and  all  made  at  the  sacrifice 
of  the  many  unwary  who  used  to  believe 
that  the  government  and  the  president  don't 
lie.  Even  at  the  so-called  professional  or 
academic  levels  in  organizations  such  as  the 
American  Nuclear  Society  and  the  Atomic 
Industrial  Forum,  the  password  has  been 
keep  the  lid  on  and  let 's  solve  the  problems 
ourselves.  This  kind  of  flavor  of  a  lack  of 
professional  responsibility  is  in  my  judg- 
ment evidenced  by  the  failure  of  the  Ameri- 
can Nuclear  Society  to  have  tackled  openly 
and  in  a  series  of  public  meetings  the  safety 
and  reliability  problems  associated  with 
nuclear  development  and  by  the  dishonest 
lack  of  openness  that  pervades  the  entire 
nuclear  industry  as  well  as  Washington's 
version  of  machine  politics,  the  Atomic 
Energy  Commission.  Statements  of  this 
nature  arc  not  made  only  by  those  critical  of 
the  industry  such  as  myself.  Thus  the 


20  '  bet  1974     WPI  Journal 


November  1973  issue  of  Power  Engineering 
magazine  said  of  the  nuclear  industry's  out- 
look and  credibility:  "The  nuclear  commu- 
nity seems  to  profit  little  from  some  pretty 
plain  and  important  lessons  of  recent  his- 
tory." And  a  study  of  AEC  licensing  pro- 
cedings  completed  in  August  1973  under  a 
National  Science  Foundation  grant  at 
George  Washington  University  School  of 
Law  concluded  that,  "despite  lip  service 
paid  to  citizen  participation  in  govern- 
mental decision  making,  agency  arrogance, 
expert  elitism,  stacked-deck  proceedings, 
and  the  consigning  of  citizens  to  help- 
lessness before  the  steamroller  of  big  gov- 
ernment is  the  rule  rather  than  the 
exception."  James  Madison  once  wrote, 
"knowledge  will  forever  govern  ignorance, 
and  the  people  who  mean  to  be  their  own 
governors  must  arm  themselves  with  the 
power  knowledge  gives.  A  popular  govern- 
ment without  popular  information  or  the 
means  of  acquiring  it  is  but  the  prologue  to  a 
farce  or  a  tragedy." 

Decision-making  in  power  production 
has  been  more  than  just  farce  or  tragedy.  It 
has  been  a  long-running,  worldwide  pro- 
duction whose  continually  renewed  objec- 
tive has  been  to  seek  a  profit;  and  demand, 
when  not  manipulated,  is  satisfied  only 
when  the  price  of  admission  has  been  paid 
in  advance  many  times  over.  Yet  merely 
having  the  people  seek  entry  into  decisions 
affecting  their  lifestyles  is  only  part  of  the 
solution.  The  other  and  necessary  part  is  a 
sincere  invitation  from  those  presently  in 
power.  Without  desire  to  participate  by  the 
people  and  a  willingness  to  share  in  a  mean- 
ingful way  by  industry  and  government, 
decision-making  resembles  little  more  than 
despotism,  a  despotism  which  is  benevolent 
only  when  it  pays.  When  I  speak  therefore 
of  public  participation,  I  am  talking  about  a 
partnership  which  does  not  exist  today  in 
the  power  production  arena.  Let  me  pose  a 
few  examples.  When  a  utility  decides  to 
build  to  expand  its  facilities,  it  likely  tells 
reporters,  shareholders,  and  others  who  lis- 
ten that  it  is  doing  a  noble  thing,  satisfying  a 
public  need  and  demand.  That  public  need 
and  demand  is  manipulated;  it  is  a  forced 
objective  based  upon  what  the  utility's  large 
industrial  customers  want  to  build  or  sell 
and  feeds  a  consumer  market  most  aptly 
characterized  as  needed  or  not.  To  be  sure, 
we  need  power.  To  be  sure,  however,  we 
encourage  wasteful  uses  of  electricity  and 
no  one  has  ever  accused  utility  executives  of 
spending  too  much  time  talking  to  those 
whose  environmental  destinies  they  daily 
affect.  At  the  regulatory  level  in  the  federal 
agency,  the  public  is  similarly  treated.  Ten- 
nessee Valley  Authority,  the  Corps  of  Engi- 
neers, Federal  Power  Commission,  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  —  all  actively  avoid 
facing  up  to  public  input  or  actively  try 
through  unfair  hearing  rules  to  face  it  down. 
And  when  was  the  last  time  that  a  state  pub- 
lic service  commission  had  more  on  its  mind 
than  giving  its  monopolistic  partner,  the 


utility,  a  fair  return  on  its  investment. 
Critical?  Indeed  these  remarks  are  criti- 
cal. Factual?  I  think  they  are  supported  by 
the  record.  The  point  is  that  we  can  no 
longer  in  our  society  permit  any  group,  no 
matter  what  its  interest,  to  spend  time  in  a 
room  of  mirrors  facing  only  approval  from 
its  peers  and  avoiding  the  shake  and  jar  of 
contrary  opinion  and  the  enlightened 
insight  that  perhaps  prior  practices  were  in 
error.  We  can  no  longer  avoid  the  luxury  of 
a  Chet  Hallowfield  who  scorns  nuclear  crit- 
ics for  wanting  to  prove  the  civilian  nuclear 
power  program  wrong  all  these  years  rather 
than  inviting  them  into  the  safety  hearings 
which  the  joint  committee  has  promised  for 
more  than  three  years.  Before  we  examine  in 
some  detail  the  present  status  of  the  public 
participation  partnership  and  how  we  might 
institute  changes  to  ameliorate  it,  I  think  it 
useful  to  see  what  changes  an  enlightened 
public  opinion  can  force  even  under  the 
present  system  of  unfairness.  In  my  judg- 
ment, the  present  examination  worldwide  of 
our  energy  problems  was  brought  into  focus 
by  a  series  of  public  interest  victories  which 
exposed  the  profit-demand  syndrome  which 
has  afflicted  power  production  decision- 
making. The  Arab  oil  embargo  was  perhaps 
the  excuse  for  examining  the  energy  indus- 
try and  the  values  it  both  serves  and 
neglects.  It  was  not,  however,  the  reason. 

Back  in  1970  when  the  National  Environ- 
mental Policy  Act  had  not  yet  emerged  as 
the  instrument  of  social  and  economic 
change  it  is  today,  energy  interests  were  not 
subjected  to  critical  examination.  The  oil 
interest  had  succeeded  in  playing  both  sides 
of  the  fence,  urging  an  oil  import  quota 
when  they  wished  to  expand  to  abroad  and 
seeking  changes  in  our  import  program 
when  domestic  capacity  was  at  full  tilt. 
Nuclear  power  plants  were  being  purchased 
at  an  alarmingly  fast  pace  without  any 
examination  of  their  potential  legacy,  or  for 
that  matter  any  concern  that  safety  prob- 
lems of  the  1960s  which,  rather  than  being 
resolved,  were  added  to  with  more  problems 
of  increasing  severity  and  complexity.  And 
energy  conservation  —  that  can  be  answered 
by  simply  referring  to  the  large  illuminated 
sign  that  Commonwealth  Edison  had  in  full 
view  of  all  those  traveling  into  Boston  from 
Logan  Airport.  It  said  simply,  Electricity  Is 
Your  Best  Buy. 

So  in  1970,  when  the  so-called  public 


interest  movement  began  on  its  way,  people 
clamored  for  answers.  Citizens'  groups,  dis- 
tressed by  the  quality  of  response,  secured 
lawyers,  economists,  engineers,  and  stu- 
dents and  began  the  battle.  It  began  with 
thermal  pollution,  the  heating  of  large 
masses  of  water  from  the  waste  heat  of 
nuclear  power  plants.  It  then  exposed  the 
poor  workmanship  of  construction  and 
operation  of  nuclear  power  plants  and 
forced  the  AEC  to  focus  on  a  problem  per- 
haps emerging  as  the  Achilles  heel  of  the 
nuclear  civilian  power  program  —  unre- 
liability and  poor  quality  control  and  qual- 
ity assurance.  No  less  than  American 
Electric  Power  Corporation  and  Consoli- 
dated Edison  of  New  York  have  said  no  to 
nuclear,  rejecting  future  plants  with  an 
unsatisfying  and  bitter  reaction  to  their 
experience.  These  experiences  are  presently 
growing  with  large  nuclear  mistakes  spread- 
ing through  the  country.  Indian  Point  I  and 
II,  Pilgrim,  Vermont  Yankee,  Palisades, 
Midland  —  not  battles  in  some  revolution- 
ary war  but  monuments  to  waste,  neglect 
and  wrong  thinking.  And  many  others  fac- 
ings so  many  problems  that  the  Wall  Street 
Journal  investigated  and  then  quipped  that 
nuclear  plants  were  atomic  lemons  whose 
unreliability  was  their  most  dependable  fea- 
ture. Right  now  in  New  England  you  have 
five  nuclear  power  plants,  four  of  which  are 
not  operating.  And  it's  the  same  throughout 
the  United  States. 
As  nuclear  critics  became  more  educated 
and  as  the  industry's  lack  of  honest  informa- 
tion became  apparent  in  the  frenzied  propa- 
ganda that  brownouts  were  in  store,  safety 
became  the  focus  of  the  controversy.  Along 
with  the  failures  of  emergency  core  cooling 
testing  at  Aerojet  Nuclear  came  the  Union 
of  Concerned  Scientists  and  scores  of  local 
and  national  citizen  groups,  exposing  the 
soft  underbelly  of  nuclear  power  —  the  lack 
of  safety  regulations.  As  1971  emerged  into 
1972  and  '73,  public  exposure  brought  us 
emergency  core  cooling  systems  whose 
reliability  is  guesswork,  steam  generator 
tubes  that  leak,  nuclear  fuel  that  densifies, 
valves  important  to  safety  whose  pedigrees 
were  unknown,  structural  mistakes  which 
cost  millions  to  repair  and  operation  error 
and  just  plain  stupidity,  such  that  an  AEC 
report  recently  concluded  that  the  absence 
of  death  or  serious  injury  was  largely  "the 
result  of  good  luck."  Most  recently,  through 


For  as  long  as  one  can  remember,  policy  in 
connection  with  power  production  has  been  made 
and  maintained  by  those  in  control  of  the  sources 
and  distribution  of  power  production. 


WPI  Journal     October  1974  I  21 


the  courtesy  of  Mr.  Dye  of  the  Los  Angeles 
Times  and  not  the  reporting  industry  of  the 
ANS  or  the  AEC,  we  have  been  treated  to 
radioactive  leaks  at  storage  facilities  so  per- 
vasive and  so  serious  that  an  entire  river 
basin's  drinking  water  is  threatened  and  the 
AEC  is  concerned  about  a  critical  mass 
forming,  not  in  a  nuclear  weapon  but  in  a 
radioactive  waste  storage  facility  at  Han- 
ford,  Washington.  The  exposure  of  faults  in 
the  power  production  arena  have  not  been 
limited  to  nuclear.  Thus  we  have  seen  off- 
shore drilling  that  violates  first  principles  of 
environmental  protection,  a  wavering  U.S. 
oil  production  capacity  geared  solely  to 
profit,  the  Alaskan  pipeline  controversy  that 
exposed  not  only  environmental  degrada- 
tion but  also  the  monopolistic  evils  of 
integrated  oil  companies  smothering  inde- 
pendent competition,  and  the  fact  that  price 
structures  governing  the  distribution  of 
electricity  favor  the  high  user,  forcing  the 
poor  once-again-unrepresented  public  to  in 
effect  subsidize  the  damage  done  to  its 
independence  and  environment. 

Now  before  you  think  that  my  litany  of 
horrors  in  power  production  is  an  end  in 
itself,  let  me  tell  you  that  each  and  every  one 
of  these  matters  was  brought  to  light  by 
public  prodding  and  by  the  desire  of  the 
public  to  execute  its  half  of  the  public  parti- 
cipation partnership.  Each  and  every  one  of 
these  matters  was  fought  by  industry  and 


reasonable  decisions.  It  can  serve  as  a  safety 
valve,  allowing  interested  persons  and 
groups  to  express  their  views  before  policies 
are  announced  and  implemented.  It  can  ease 
the  enforcement  of  administrative  programs 
relying  upon  public  cooperation.  And  it  can 
satisfy  judicial  demands  that  agencies 
observe  the  highest  procedural  safeguards." 
Professor  Gellhorn  then  concluded  that  if 
agency  hearings  were  to  become  readily 
available  to  public  participation,  confidence 
in  the  performance  of  government 
institutions  and  in  the  fairness  of  adminis- 
trative hearings  might  be  measurably 
enhanced. 

A  survey  of  the  types  of  public  participa- 
tion presently  permitted  by  the  adminis- 
trative agencies  which  regulate  power 
reveals  the  following:  there  are  six  major 
administrative  agencies  which  have  a  sig- 
nificant voice  in  power  production.  These 
are  the  Tennessee  Valley  Authority,  the 
Corps  of  Engineers,  the  Federal  Power 
Commission,  the  Atomic  Energy  Commis- 
sion, and  the  Departments  of  Interior  and 
Commerce.  The  first  four  are  concerned 
primarily  with  regulating  the  power  itself 
while  the  last  two,  Commerce  and  Interior, 
have  jurisdiction  over  various  forms  of  our 
natural  energy  resources.  Generally  speak- 
ing, no  form  of  active,  trial-type  public  par- 
ticipation is  permitted  in  four  of  these 
agencies  and  while  two  of  them,  the  FPC 


Power  production  has  proceeded  with  only  two 
objectives  in  mind  —  profit  and  comfort  —  with  no 
long-range  plan  except  to  nourish  and  prod  an 
insatiable  demand. 


government,  sometimes  in  openly  dishonest 
ways,  thus  violating  completely  its  half  of 
the  partnership.  Public  participation  in  a 
meaningful  way  is  not  the  result  of  organ- 
ized society.  It  is  rather  a  crucial  pre- 
condition to  the  maintenance  of  organized 
society. 

Now  that  we  have  in  mind  perhaps  the 
philosophy  of  public  participation,  and 
have  set  out  some  of  its  achievements 
despite  the  opposition  and  lack  of  account- 
ability of  those  in  power,  its  time  to  focus  on 
the  present  system  and  offer  some  sugges- 
tions for  change.  Ernest  Gellhorn,  a  profes- 
sor of  law  at  the  University  of  Virginia  and  a 
long-time  student  of  public  participation  in 
administrative  decision-making,  recently 
wrote  in  a  law  journal  on  this  subject.  He 
said,  "there  arc  a  number  of  potential  social 
advantages  to  public  participation  in 
administrative  hearings.  Public  inter- 
vention can  provide  agencies  with  another 
dimension  useful  in  assuring  responsive  and 


and  AEC,  have  authority  to  hold  public 
hearings,  they  have  rules  so  strict  that  it's 
very  difficult  if  not  impossible  to  explore 
fairly  power  production  issues  before  them. 
No  agency  actively  solicits  public  participa- 
tion from  public  interest  groups  as  a  matter 
of  routine  and  no  agency  provides  funds  to 
pay  costs  and  expenses  of  public  participa- 
tion. The  most  general  type  of  permissible 
public  interest  input  is  gathered  in  the  so- 
called  "notice  and  comment  hearing," 
where  groups  can  submit  written  comments 
to  an  agency.  This  type  of  proceeding,  while 
perhaps  satisfactory  for  broad  future  policy 
decisions,  is  inapposite  and  even  unfair  in 
most  situtations.  A  public  interest  group  in 
notice  and  comment  hearings  has  no  oppor- 
tunity to  see  other  views  submitted  and  has 
no  opportunity  to  question  or  cross-examine 
the  agency's  viewpoint.  Thus  this  type  of 
proceeding  permits  an  agency  to  advertise 
that  it  receives  public  interest  type  com- 
ments without  however  actively  promoting 


and  soliciting  that  comment  under  fair 
procedures.  Moreover,  even  if  such  infor- 
mal procedures  were  satisfactory  to  solicit 
the  views  of  public  interest  groups,  agencies 
rarely  give  adequate  notice  of  their  deliv- 
erations  so  that  all  interested  persons  and 
groups  even  know  that  a  hearing  is  to  take 
place.  Rarely  are  agency  proceedings 
noticed  in  anything  except  the  Federal  Reg- 
ister, a  daily  compilation  of  agency  action 
which  is  quite  expensive  and  not  readily 
available  to  local  citizen  groups. 

I  hesitate  to  leave  this  portion  of  my 
remarks  without  a  word  about  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  procedure,  a  proce- 
dure with  which  I  have  had  more  than  pass- 
ing acquaintance.  I  have  been  involved  with 
the  AEC's  regulatory  adjudicatory  process 
for  more  than  three  years  and  in  connection 
with  more  than  ten  contested  interventions 
and  three  generic-type  national  rule-making 
hearings  involving  the  emergency  core 
cooling  system,  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  and 
the  transportation  of  radioactive  waste. 
Briefly,  the  AEC's  procedures  can  be  out- 
lined as  follows.  A  utility  files  an  appli- 
cation explaining  as  little  as  it  can  get  away 
with  and  dubbing  whatever  it  does  reveal  of 
substance  as  proprietary.  No  notice  of  filing 
is  given  anyone,  and  a  person  or  group  who 
is  interested  in  utilities  application  is  usu- 
ally not  aware  of  the  filing  and  may  not  usu- 
ally get  a  copy  of  the  application.  The 
application  is  then  the  subject  of  periodic 
review  by  the  AEC  regulatory  staff  and  the 
Advisory  Committee  on  Reactor 
Safeguards.  Many  meetings  are  held  with 
the  utility  and  vendor  and  most  all  meetings 
go  unrecorded  in  any  formal  fashion.  Let- 
ters between  and  among  the  utility,  vendor, 
AEC  and  ACRS  are  conveniently  placed  in 
a  Washington,  D.C.,  document  room, 
hardly  providing  notice  or  information  to 
citizens  outside  that  area.  This  procedure 
continues  for  about  two  years  until  the  nego- 
tiating procedure  is  resolved  in  a  deal.  The 
regulatory  staff  has  accepted  the  utility's 
promise  that  all  will  be  worked  out  during 
construction,  and  an  appropriate  research 
program  has  been  appropriately  imple- 
mented. Thus  the  director  of  regulation  at 
the  end  of  this  two-year  back-room  review 
agrees  to  issue  a  construction  permit  or 
operating  license.  If  the  director  of  regu- 
lation is  not  so  disposed,  then  the  back-door 
negotiations  continue  until  he  is.  Also  at  the 
end  of  this  negotiation  period,  the  Advisory 
Committee  on  Reactor  Safeguards  issues  its 
usual  letter  saying  that  all  is  well  provided 
the  utility  keeps  the  various  promises  it  has 
made  and  continues  generally  to  consider 
problem-solving  and  advise  the  ACRS. 
Ironically  and  as  a  mark  of  the  ACRS's  lack 
of  responsibility  and  credibility,  it  is  inter- 
esting to  note  that  since  1965  the  ACRS  has 
been  issuing  such  conditional  letters  about 
emergency  core  cooling  system  resolution 
but  never  has  answered  the  quite  simple 
question  of  why  it  hasn't  recommended  sus- 
pension or  revocation  of  permits  or  licenses 


22     October  Vi/ A     WPI  Journal 


issued  upon  condition  of  the  fulfillment  of  a 
promise  which  has  never  been  fulfilled.  I  am 
speaking  about  the  promise,  to  resolve  the 
ECCS  problem,  extracted  from  but  not  ful- 
filled by  every  utility  since  the  Indian  Point 
II  construction  letter  in  1965.  At  the  end  of 
the  negotiating  period,  having  advised  the 
utility  that  intends  to  issue  a  permit  or  a 
license,  the  AEC  finally  decides  to  issue  a 
notice  of  public  hearing,  soliciting  inter- 
vention by  persons  whose  interest  might  be 
affected. 

This  point,  however,  is  when  an  inter- 
ested party  first  begins  his  analysis  of  what 
he  wishes  to  raise  in  his  petition  to  inter- 
vene. He  has  thirty  days  to  file  a  petition  and 
it  must  be  supported  by  an  affadavit  which 
attempts  to  justify  his  position  from  a  scien- 
tific standpoint.  Thus  the  public  interest 
group,  not  having  access  to  any  information, 
unless  it  travels  to  Washington  to  see  it,  is 
expected  to  analyze  and  justify  intervention 
of  an  application  which  has  undergone  two 
years  of  review  by  the  AEC  and  do  it  in 
shortly  under  thirty  days.  The  process  of 
catch-22  unfairness  continues.  AEC  rules 
provide  that  a  petition  to  intervene  or  part 
of  it  is  to  be  denied  if  it  isn't  set  forth  in  very 
specific  terms,  but  they  won't  give  you  access 
to  information  necessary  to  be  specific  unless 
the  information  is  relevant  to  an  already 
made  specific  contention.  Let  me  restate  this. 
A  public  interest  intervener  is  not  entitled  to 
discovery  of  information  unless  he  has  stated 
a  specific  position  related  to  the  information, 
and  since  he  doesn't  have  the  information  to 
therefore  make  a  specific  showing,  he  fails. 
And  what  happens?  You  have  a  lot  of  peti- 
tions intervened  that  run  the  gamut  from 
complaining  about  celery  to  the  sun,  but 
that's  the  fault  of  information  not  being 
available  and  people  being  forced  into  those 
kinds  of  options .  It's  a  fine  way  to  run  public 
hearings  if  you  don't  want  public  hearings. 

If  an  intervener  manages  to  get  by  this 
hurdle  by  using  or  relying  upon  informa- 
tion relating  to  similar  power  plants,  he  is 
met  at  the  hearing  by  the  following  addi- 
tional obstacles:  (1)  a  three-man  licensing 
board  paid  by  the  AEC  and  well-schooled 
in  the  art  of  bias;  (2)  claims  by  utilities  and 
vendors  that  access  to  information  is  secret 
and  proprietary  and  may  not  be  seen  unless 
you  sign  an  agreement  which  prohibits  you 
from  disclosing  the  information  to  the 
experts  on  whom  you  may  have  to  rely  for 
your  case;  (3)  a  claim  by  the  Atomic  Energy 
Commission  that  regulatory  staff  and  out- 
side consultant  reports  on  the  safety  of  the 
reactor  are  unavailable  because  the  govern- 
ment needs  to  protect  its  sources  to  dis- 
charge its  obligation  (note  carefully,  secrecy 
is  a  justification  for  protecting  the  public 
health  and  safety);  (4)  a  claim  of  urgency  by 
everyone  to  hurry  up  the  hearing  because 
electricity  is  needed.  The  agency  and  utility 
are  prepared  to  go  forward  —  they've  had 
two  years,  and  they've  made  their  deal. 


No  one  has  ever  accused  utility  executives  of 
spending  too  much  time  talking  to  those  whose 
environmental  destinies  they  daily  affect. 


I'd  like  to  make  the  following  comments 
about  AEC  procedures.  The  Atomic 
Energy  Commission  is  insular  and  tries  to 
actively  promote  and  protect  the  utility  at  a 
hearing.  This  insular  unfairness  is  caused 
by  the  dual  functions  of  the  Atomic  Energy 
Commission,  which  is  obligated  both  to 
promote  and  to  regulate  nuclear  power  at 
the  same  time,  as  well  as  by  the  normal 
occupational  zeal  of  an  institution  which 
has  no  other  mandate  but  to  nuclearize 
America.  The  AEC  is  dishonest  and  is  not 
susceptible  to  openness  and  change.  The 
AEC  is  afraid  to  face  issues  squarely  and  has 
adopted  a  protectionist  policy  to  preserve  its 
own  bureaucratic  interest.  As  examples,  look 
how  long  it  takes  the  AEC  to  publicly 
acknowledge  accidents  in  violation  of  its 
own  regulation.  And  it's  a  matter  of  public 
record  that  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission 
has  never  turned  down  a  utility  after  a  hear- 
ing, despite  safety  problems  remaining 
unresolved  and  promises  unfulfilled,  and  has 
never  revoked  a  permit  or  a  license  despite 
the  fact  that  a  recent  AEC  study  disclosed 
that  in  the  last  two  years  there  have  been 
more  than  800  reported  violations  of  AEC 
.  regulations  and  technical  specifications  by 
the  utilities  around  the  United  States. 
Finally,  the  hearing  board  selected  by  the 
Atomic  Energy  Commission  to  preside  is, 
in  addition  to  being  biased,  largely  com- 
posed of  administrative  hacks  and  hangers- 
on  who  have  little  feel  for  or  interest  in  a 
judicial  system. 

In  my  judgment  the  AEC  today  is  worse 
than  it  was  under  Glenn  Seaborg  from  the 
standpoint  of  open  information  and  protec- 
tion of  all  various  forms  of  interest.  I  fear 
that  in  order  to  accomplish  the  necessary 
change,  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission 
must  disappear  and  come  back,  if  at  all,  in  a 
totally  restructured  and  different  way.  My 


analysis  of  the  need  for  and  lack  of  public 
participation  in  power  production  has  led 
me  to  suggest  some  specific  and  general  pro- 
posals about  the  structuring  of  the  energy 
industry  today.  The  present  system  of  regu- 
lation and  creation  of  power  production  is 
in  the  hands  of  the  wrong  people.  The  sys- 
tem is  diffuse  and  cumbersome  and  is  not 
susceptible  to  easy  change  or  accom- 
modation of  important  and  emerging  inter- 
est. Given  the  lack  of  honesty  and  candor  of 
industry  and  government,  its  structure  —not 
its  motivation  —  must  be  tampered  with. 
Only  if  we  build  into  a  new  system  a  barrier 
to  industry  insularity  and  remove  the  hur- 
dles to  public  participation  while  at  the 
same  time  encouraging  such  participation 
can  we  begin  to  resolve  the  crisis  of  respon- 
sibility and  accountability  which  we  now 
face.  I  propose  an  energy  commission  for 
regulation  of  all  forms  of  power  production. 
This  Energy  Regulation  Commission,  or 
ERC,  would  have  no  promotional  or  devel- 
opmental authority,  but  it  would  supplant 
every  existing  regulatory  agency  at  the  fed- 
eral level  having  anything  to  do  with  the 
regulation  of  power  production,  including 
siting,  construction,  operation,  and  energy 
conservation.  Its  authority  would  include 
also  the  power  to  order  that  a  specific  power 
plant  be  built  or  not  be  built,  that  inter- 
connections be  made  or  not  be  made.  It 
would  have  authority  to  reallocate  existing 
distribution  of  fuels,  and  it  could  veto  util- 
ity expansion,  requiring  instead  energy  con- 
servation measures  or  expanded 
interconnections  with  utilities  having  dif- 
fering peak  periods  of  loads. 

The  advantages  of  this  proposal  to  indus- 
try, government  and  public-interest  groups 
are  numerous.  First,  government  would 
finally  be  able  to  create,  apply,  and  execute  a 
rational,  national,  consistent  energy  policy. 


The  public  has  become  rightly  concerned  with  the 
realization  that  it  has  been  forced  into  a  lifestyle 
about  which  it  has  had  no  decision-making  input. 


WPIJournal  I  October  1974  I  23 


No  more  would  we  have  the  Federal  Power 
Commission  saying  as  it  does  now  that 
energy  conservation  is  relevant  while  the 
Atomic  Energy  Commission  says  it  is  irrele- 
vant. No  more  would  we  have  a  policy  set  or 
unset  by  numerous  divisive  interests  in  gov- 
ernment and  no  more  would  we  have  to 
have  a  situation  where,  as  we  have  now,  the 
administration  needs  several  committees 
just  to  find  out  the  current  state  of  the  chaos. 

Second,  industry  would  have  a  one-stop 
for  its  power  production  problems.  If  a  util- 
ity wants  to  go  nuclear  but  that's  wrong,  the 
ERC  would  have  the  power  to  grant  alter- 
nate authorization  for  a  fossil  or  other  type 
plant,  thus  eliminating  the  possibility  of  and 
wastefulness  inherent  in  the  utility  having 
to  file  another  application  with  another 
agency.  And  let  me  suggest,  and  digress  for 
a  moment,  that  there  are  many  reasons  why 
an  ERC  might  tell  a  utility  not  to  go  nuclear 
even  if  all  nuclear  problems  were  resolved. 
It  is  a  question  of  the  balance  of  mix;  it  is  a 
question  of  the  adequate  use  of  resources. 
We  are  in  a  position  today  where  we  are 
building  nuclear  power  plants  under  a  short 
supply  of  uranium,  hoping  that  we'll  get  a 
breeder  off  the  ground  when  we've  just 
found  out  that  the  safety  problems  in  con- 
nection with  the  breeder,  are  more  insur- 
mountable than  we  have  dreamed  with  light 
water  reactors  and  the  whole  economics  of 
the  production  problem  has  just  gone  to  pot 
after  the  recent  economic  analysis  the  AEC 
did.  There  are  fine  and  discrete  issues  which 
can  be  drawn  about  the  kinds  and  types  of 
decisions  a  utility  makes,  and  they  ought  to 
be  done  by  one  agency. 

Moreover,  if  the  reason  a  utility  has 
decided  not  to  build  a  gas  facility,  for 
example,  is  because  of  a  lack  of  gas  to  a  par- 
ticular utility's  area,  the  ERC  if  it  ordered  a 
gas  facility  as  the  best  source  of  expansion, 
would  have  the  authority  to  reallocate  avail- 
able supplies  of  gas  to  fuel  the  new  plant. 

Finally,  if  the  utility  was  told  it  had  not 
made  out  a  case  for  expansion,  the  ERC 
would  have  the  authority  to  order  the 
institution  of  energy-saving  programs  on  all 
levels,  including  the  price  structure  at 
which  electricity  is  marketed,  or  order  inter- 
connections to  assure  the  meeting  of 
demand  by  existing  albeit  distant  supplies. 
In  areas  outside  of  the  economics  of  power 
production  the  ERC  would  rely  upon  the 
expertise,  for  example,  of  the  Internal  Reve- 
nue Service  or  the  Environmental  Protec- 
tion Agency  to  assist  it  in  determining,  on  a 
case  by  case  basis,  what  action  will  best  pro- 
mote our  energy  policy  considering  the 
effects  and  interests  of  the  incentives  or 
depressants  offered  by  tax  and  environ- 
mental laws. 

Third,  and  perhaps  most  important,  the 
public  interest  can  be  protected.  The  public 
interest  can  be  protected  structurally 
because  the  ER< !  is  not  wedded  —  and 
expressly  should  not  be  permitted  to  be 
wedded  -  to  any  particular  form  of  energy 


The  AEC's  Catch-22:  A  petition  is  to  be  denied  if  it 
isn't  specific,  but  you  can't  have  access  to  the 
information  necessary  for  specificity  unless  you're 
specific. . .  It's  a  fine  way  to  run  public  hearings  if  you 
don't  want  public  hearings. 


production.  No  more  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
mission with  its  built-in  insular  and  biased 
attitudes,  no  more  unbalanced  approaches 
to  energy  production;  the  ERC  would  be 
directed  by  statute  to  balance  and  consider 
the  various  trade-offs  which  today  are 
omitted  from  consideration  unless 
introduced  in  the  process  by  a  public  par- 
ticipant. The  ERC  would  hold  hearings  on 
every  application  and  provide  a  system  of 
fair  procedures.  It  would  release  informa- 
tion in  advance  and  provide  assistance  to 
public  interest  organizations.  Since  the 
ERC  would  not  be  wedded  to  a  single 
power  source,  many  of  the  due  process 
problems  now  apparent  in,  for  example,  the 
Atomic  Energy  Commission  would  be 
eliminated.  Furthermore,  acknowledging 
both  the  past  and  future  contributions 
which  have  and  can  be  made  by  public 
interest  groups,  the  ERC  would  be  autho- 
rized upon  proper  showing  by  responsible 
groups  to  provide  expenses  and  attorneys' 
fees  to  such  groups  to  encourage  their  role 
in  public  participation. 

Contemporaneous  with  the  estab- 
lishment of  an  ERC,  I  also  propose  that  we 
establish  an  Energy  Development  Commis- 
sion or  EDC.  This  agency  would  be  statu- 
torily separate  and  apart  from  the  ERC.  Its 
mandate  would  be  to  explore  and  develop 
alternate  sources  of  power  not  commercially 
viable,  to  investigate  better  ways  to  produce 
power  from  existing  sources,  and  to  analyze 
existing  energy  use  patterns  to  devise  ways 
to  conserve  energy  use  as  well  as  energy 
production.  The  EDC  would  again  not  be 
wedded  to  any  specific  power  source  and 
would  be  statutorily  obligated  to  justify  its 
development  in  any  area,  each  year,  and 
could  recommend  to  its  sister  agency,  the 
ERC,  to  halt  approval  of  certain  types  of 


power  production  which  have  not  reached 
or  have  lost  sufficient  maturity  so  as  to  be 
safe,  efficient,  reliable,  and  environmentally 
sound. 

With  the  creation  of  the  ERC  and  the 
EDC,  I  would  propose  the  creation  of  a 
third  temporary  agency  which  would  exist 
approximately  two  years.  The  mandate  of 
this  temporary  agency  would  be  singlefold: 
to  assist  the  ERC  and  EDC  in  gathering  ini- 
tial information  and  to  eliminate  the 
presently  existing  scandal  of  the  century 
concerning  the  lack  of  energy-related  statis- 
tics. Today  no  agency  of  the  federal  govern- 
ment has  authority  to  or  is  in  the  process  of 
gathering  information  on  supplies  of  vari- 
ous forms  of  energy  resources  or  the  state  of 
the  art  of  future  forms  of  energy  devel- 
opment. Today  if  we  want  to  know  how 
much  oil  and  gas  there  is,  we  ask  the  oil  and 
gas  industry.  And  if  you  want  some  detail 
on  how  information  in  this  industry  is 
manipulated,  I  commend  your  reading  of  a 
three-part  series  entitled  "Oil,  the  Created 
Crises"  by  Messrs.  Donald  Bartlett  and 
James  Steele  of  the  Philadelphia  Inquirer. 

The  lack  of  information  base  today  is  also 
evident  in  the  nuclear  industry.  Today, 
believe  it  or  not,  if  the  AEC  wants  to  know 
about  nuclear  safety  it  must  ask  the  industry 
it  regulates.  The  AEC  for  example  is  often 
refused  information  on  the  grounds  of  "pro- 
prietary." And  today,  notwithstanding  the 
grave  emergency  core  cooling  system  crisis 
in  your  industry,  it  has  not  access  to  the 
actual  computer  codes  used  by  the  industry. 
I  might  add  that  the  AEC  has  approved  by 
regulation  each  of  these  codes  and  appar- 
ently has  had  no  reluctance  to  approve  that 
which  it  has  not  seen.  The  temporary 
agency  would  end  this  scandalous  nonsense 
and  would  order  the  submission  of  all  types 


The  Atomic  Energy  Commission  must  disappear 
and  come  back,  if  at  all,  in  a  totally  restructured  and 
different  way. 


24     October  VifA     WPI  Journal 


of  energy  information,  including  informa- 
tion on  reserves.  The  information  gathering 
agency  will  have  the  authority  to  impose 
fines  and  seek  jail  sentences  for  corporate 
executives  unwilling  to  comply.  Maybe 
then  we'll  find  out  why  the  oil  industry  has 
failed  these  past  years  to  use  secondary  and 
tertiary  recovery  methods  to  extract  the  70 
to  80  percent  of  oil  it  leaves  in  the  ground 
each  time  it  caps  a  well. 

I  realize  that  my  suggestions  for  a  revi- 
sion of  our  energy  policy  and  regulating 
structure  may  be  far  off  or  even  impossible 
because  of  bureaucratic  inertia  and  the 
obvious  interests  of  existing  agencies  to 
hold  and  expand  their  own  constituencies. 
So  I  wish  to  conclude  by  going  back  to  my 
earlier  theme  with  the  knowledge  that  the 
present  system  will  breed  more  and  more 
litigation  opting  for  change.  It  is  clear  that 
the  demand  for  broadened  public  participa- 
tion in  decision-making,  as  Professor  Gel- 
Ihorn  has  observed,  rests  on  the  belief  that 


government,  like  all  others,  rarely  responds 
to  interests  not  before  it.  Thus  public  inter- 
est groups  will  continue  to  seek  entry  to  the 
process  and  a  fair  government  will  welcome 
them,  realizing  the  contribution  they  can 
make.  Public  participation  is  a  right  and 
therefore  agencies  have  a  mandate  to  assist 
that  right,  and  a  failure  to  offer  that  assistance 
amounts  to  a  practical  subversion  of  the 
right.  In  the  end,  agencies  and  industry 
would  do  better  to  assist  and  be  open  because 
a  failure  to  do  so,  which  unfairly  restricts 
public  participation,  will  only  result  in  court 
reversals  and  expensive  retrials  of  hearings 
and  delays  in  the  ultimate  resolution  of 
important  issues. 

As  each  of  you  read  this,  I  hope  you  will 
be  thinking  about  your  own  personal  obli- 
gation to  improve  the  system,  to  assist  the 
public  in  its  quest  for  honesty  and  candor, 
and  have  the  personal  courage  to  rock  the 
boat  and  challenge  the  system  when  that's 
necessary.  Because  of  the  nuclear  safety 
dilemma,  the  American  Nuclear  Society 


Each  and  everyone  of  these  matters  was  brought  to 
light  by  public  prodding,  and  was  fought  by  industry 
and  government,  sometimes  in  openly  dishonest 
ways. 


and  academicians  in  the  mechanical  and 
nuclear  engineering  circles  have  a  particu- 
larly important  obligation  which  is  not  cur- 
rently being  executed.  Ask  yourself,  What 
went  wrong?  and  What  can  the  ANS  and  its 
affiliates  do  to  open  up  the  system?  Ask 
yourself,  What  can  I  do  to  make  utilities  in 
the  nuclear  industry  more  open  and  honest 
and  responsive  to  public  demands?  What 
can  I  do  to  help  promote  responsibility  in 
the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  and  other 
agencies  regulating  power  sources?  Ask 
yourself,  if  your  employer  is  not  honest  with 
the  public,  Why  don't  I  go  in  and  tell  him 
and  if  he  refuses  to  change,  write  somebody 
a  public  letter?  Ask  yourself  why  you  are 
not  objecting  to  the  Atomic  Energy  Com- 
mission's current  desire  to  eliminate  and 
restrict  public  hearings  when  it  was  those 
public  hearings  that  brought  to  light  signifi- 
cant safety  problems.  Have  you  offered  your 
assistance  to  a  public  interest  group  seeking 
to  help  expand  information  knowledge  base 
in  connection  with  a  reactor  or  any  environ- 
mental problem?  Have  you  told  the  next 
guy  who  says  it's  all  the  fault  of  the  environ- 
mentalists to  shut  up?  And  have  you 
thought,  Who  ought  to  go  to  jail  for  the 
mess  we're  in?  If  you  respond  positively  to 
any  of  these  questions,  I  assure  you  we'll  all 
be  better  off.  If  you  respond  to  all  or  most  of 
them,  unfairness  will  be  past  and  a  real  part- 
nership of  public  participation  will  be 
begun. 

mm 


WP I  Journal  I  October  1974/25 


1929 


1933 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  September  1,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information 
received  after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1914 


ELLWOOD  N.  HENNESSY  was  recently  hon- 
ored at  a  dinner  celebrating  his  50th 
anniversary  as  a  life  insurance  salesman.  He 
is  a  chartered  underwriter  with  Phoenix 
Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.,  Worcester,  and  a 
life  member  of  the  company's  Million  Dollar 
Round  Table.  A  trustee  of  Westboro  State 
Hospital,  he  has  served  on  the  Westboro 
Finance  Committee,  was  a  selectman,  town 
moderator  and  member  of  the  Republican 
town  committee. 


1926 


DOUGLAS  S.  BURNS  writes  that  he  is  work- 
ing part  time  as  a  real  estate  salesman  (May  1 
to  Nov.  1 )  for  Sweetwater  Lake,  Inc.,  Nineveh, 
Ind.  He  spends  his  winters  in  Marathon,  Fla. 
.  .  .  WARREN  P.  GLEASON,  a  member  of  the 
Winter  Harbor  (Me.)  planning  board,  recently 
designed  a  special  town  ordinance  using 
documents  from  the  State  of  Maine's  various 
agencies  and  the  University  of  Maine's  model 
ordinances.  His  11-page  proposal  and 
shoreland  zoning  map  of  the  town  drew  com- 
mendations from  those  gathered  at  a  public 
hearing  last  May. 


1928 


IVAN  V.  ABADJIEFF  is  a  self-employed 
research  and  development  engineer  in 
Worcester  .  .  .  WINSLOW  C.  WENTWORTH 
has  been  elected  chairman  of  the  board  of 
directors  at  Greenfield  (Mass.)  Cooperative 
Bank.  Since  his  retirement  in  1971  he  has 
been  a  consultant  to  Western  Massachusetts 
Electric  Co  (formerly  Turners  Falls  Power 
and  Electric  Co  )  with  which  he  was  associ- 
ated for  42  years  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  and  registered  land  surveyor 
Active  in  civic  affairs,  he  is  past  chairman  of 
the  Franklin  County  planning  board,  past 
president  of  the  Turners  Falls-Montague  and 
the  Greenfield  Area  Chambers  of  Commerce 

26     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


JOHN  L.  MOOSHIAN,  who  retired  two  years 
ago  after  32  years  of  federal  service  as  a  gen- 
eral engineer,  recently  moved  to  Sacra- 
mento, Calif,  following  extensive  world-wide 
travel. ...  Dr.  ARTHUR  H.  BURR,  head  of  the 
department  of  mechanical  engineering  at  the 
University  of  Americas  in  Puebla,  Mexico,  is 
having  a  busy  year.  Besides  his  duties  with  the 
university,  he  has  a  day-a-week  consulting 
and  lecture  arrangement  with  the  engineers 
at  a  local,  modern  steel  mill(Hylsa).  He  is  also 
completing  a  book.  He  writes  that  he  and  his 
wife  are  a  stone's  throw  from  one  of  the  larg- 
est (base  area)  pyramids  in  the  world  and  are 
enjoying  the  delightful  Mexican  climate. 

Prof.  LAURENCE  CLEVELAND,  retired 
Northeastern  University  professor  of  engi- 
neering, was  awarded  an  honorary  doctor  of 
engineering  by  Northeastern  at  com- 
mencement exercises  in  June  at  Boston 
Garden.  After  graduating  from  WPI,  he 
received  his  MSEE  from  MIT  in  1935.  In  1929 
he  started  as  an  instructor  at  Northeastern; 
wasmade  assistant  professorin  1936;  associ- 
ate professor  in  1942  and  full  professor  in 
1 960.  From  1 957  to  1 959  he  was  supervisor  of 


the  electrical  engineering  laboratories.  He 
was  executive  officer  of  the  electrical  engi- 
neering department  from  1 959  to  1 962;  acti  ng 
chairman  of  the  EE  Dept.  from  1 962  to  1 963; 
and  director  of  the  power  systems  engineer- 
ing program  from  1963  to  1973.  In  June  of 
1973  he  was  named  curriculum  director  of 
power  program  courses  in  Northeastern's 
Lincoln  College.  .  .  .  The  ARTHUR  W. 
KNIGHTS,  who  missed  the  45th  reunion  of  the 
Class  of  1929,  write  that  if  any  members  of 
the  class  visiting  Vermont  within  a  10-mile 
radius  of  St.  Johnsbury  would  like  to  visit 
them,  to  phone  802-748-9000  for  directions  to 
their  home  in  White  Village,  Lower  Waterford, 
Vt. 


1931 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  EDGAR  A.  PHANEUF,  Sr.,  cele- 
brated their  40th  wedding  anniversary  on  July 
4, 1 974.  They  were  honored  at  a  special  party 
and  by  a  mass  celebrated  at  St.  Matthew's 
Church  in  Southville,  Mass. 


1932 


JOHN  D  LANE  has  been  named  as  Worces- 
ter's first  single  assessor  in  the  24-year  his- 
tory of  Plan  E,  council-manager  government. 
A  real  estate  broker  and  appraiser  since  1 940, 
he  was  chosen  by  the  City  Manager  over  24 
other  candidates  forthe  powerful  post  He  has 
the  sole  power  to  set  property  values  and  to 
grant  or  deny  tax  abatement  requests.  Lane 
has  been  an  assistant  city  assessor  since 
1972. 


JAMES  B.  RAFTER  retired  in  September  as 
district  sales  manager  for  Armco  Steel  Corp., 
Middletown,  Ohio.  Currently  he  is  a  consul- 
tant in  Boca  Raton,  Fla On  April  1  RALPH 

J.  VOIGT  retired  following  35  years  of  service 
with  the  Narragansett  Electric  Co.  He  writes 
that  he  is  now  catching  up  on  maintenance 
work  on  two  houses.  He  also  plans  to  travel 
and  visit  his  son,  Richard,  who  is  an  intern  in 
Hanover,  N.H.;  Ralph,  Jr.,  who  is  a  pharmacist 
in  Colorado;  and  daughter,  Janet,  who  is  a 
physical  therapist  in  New  York  City. 


1935 


JOHN  J.  MOLLOY  retired  in  December  after 
37  years  of  government  service.  For  over  35 
years  he  waswith  the  U.S.  Geological  Survey. 
His  final  position  was  that  of  district  chief, 
Ohio  District,  Water  Resources  Division, 
U.S.G.S. 


1936 


RICHARD  W.  KEENAN,  senior  structural 
engineer  and  consultant  with  Stone  & 
Webster,  was  recently  featured  in  an  issue  of 
Duncan  Report.  He  is  a  registered  profes- 
sional engineer  in  Massachusetts,  Georgia, 
Louisiana  and  Texas.  A  member  of  ASCE,  he 
is  also  a  member  of  ASCE's  committee  on 
publications,  Power  Division.  He  belongs  to 
the  Massachusetts  and  National  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers. 


1938 


RICHARD  W.  CLOUES  received  the  "Engi- 
neer of  the  Year  Award"  from  the  Peninsular 
Chapter  of  the  California  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers (CSPE)  in  May  and  the  presi- 
dential award  from  the  California  Society  of 
Professional  Engineers  in  June.  He  received 
the  first  award  principally  for  his  work  on  the 
CSPE  legislation  and  registration  committees 
which  he  chaired.  He  was  recognized  in  the 
second  for  distinguished  service  to  the  engi- 
neering and  scientific  community,  industry, 
education,  and  government  as  well  as  for  his 
work  with  the  CSPE  legislation.  Cloues,  a 
project  engineer,  has  been  with  Bechtel 
Corp.,  San  Francisco,  for  nine  years —  ROB- 
ERT A.  EVANS,  assistant  vice  president  of 
generation  engineering  and  construction  at 
Northeast  Utilities,  recently  pointed  out  in  an 
article  in  the  Times  (Hartford,  Conn.)  that 
nuclear  plants  that  produce  electricity  can 
produce  the  heating-cooling  energy  needed 
by  people  in  large  cities.  He  went  on  to  say  that 
with  a  3,000  megawatt  thermal  high 
temperature  gas-cooled  reactor,  working  on 
a  gas  turbine  cycle,  that  in  addition  to 
providing  1,110  MW  of  electricity,  enough 
heat  could  be  recovered  to  service  50,000 
homes.  Evans  is  past  chairman  of  the  Con- 
necticut section  of  the  American  Nuclear 
Society. 


PETER  P.  KOLISS,  head  of  the  Loop  distri- 
bution apparatus  and  methods  department  at 
Bell  Labs,  Whippany,  N.J.,  celebrated  his 
35th  anniversary  with  the  company  in  July.  He 
joined  Bell  in  1 939  and  in  1 963  was  appointed 
head  of  the  outside  plant  apparatus  design 
and  development  department.  He  assumed 
hispresentpositionin1971  and  is  responsible 
for  the  design  and  development  of  connective 
systems  for  the  telephone  cable  plant  and 
customer  premises.  He  has  three  patents  for 
his  inventions  and  has  written  four  articles. 


1943 


1939 


CHARLES H.AMIDON,  Jr.  had  16of  hiscircus 
oil  paintings  on  display  at  the  Barnum 
Museum  in  Bridgeport,  Conn,  last  summer. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  Circus  Historical 
Society. . . .  JACK  BOYD,  former  owner  of  the 
Nashua  (N.H.)  Brass  Company,  now  repre- 
sents Hollis  and  Brookline  in  the  state  legisla- 
ture, where  he  has  been  active  on  the 
resource,  rehabilitation  and  development 
committee.  Currently  he  is  fiscal  agent  for 
Betty  Hall,  candidate  for  the  New  Hampshire 
Senate,  District  12. 


1940 


EDWARD  E.  J.  HAFEY,  owner  of  Hafey  Air 
Conditioning  Co.,  Laguna  Beach,  Calif., 
writes  that  his  company  now  distributes,  for 
diversification,  a  line  of  hand  hydraulic  cable 
and  strand  cutters  in  the  U.S.  and  Canada. 
The  cutters  are  used  by  telephone  com- 
panies, electrical  contractors,  and  electric 
public  utilities.  His  firm  also  markets  12  volt 
fluorescent  service  lights  including  an  under- 
water model.  Ed,  along  with  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
DONALD  R.  BATES,  have  developed  a  small 
import  business  covering  jewelry  and  works 
of  art  from  Korea,  Nepal,  and  India.  Ed  adds 
that  "Don  has  cornered  the  market  on  age-old 
buddhas  from  the  temples  of  the  Orient." 
ARTHUR  R.  KOERBER  is  a  camp  ranger  for 
the  Frontier  Girl  Scout  Council  in  Las  Vegas, 
Nevada.  After  working  for  General  Electric 
Co.  for  25  years,  he  is  now  semi-retired  and 
living  at  Camp  Foxtail,  elevation  8,500  ft., 
doing  work  similar  to  the  volunteer  type  he's 
done  for  23  years.  He  maintains  a  large 
campsite. 


1941 


Prof.  CHARLES  O.  SMITH,  of  the  engineering 
faculty  at  the  University  of  Detroit,  presented 
"Case  Studies  as  Laboratory  Exercises"  in  a 
post-conference  workshop  on  engineering 
materials  at  the  82nd  Annual  Conference  of 
the  American  Society  for  Engineering 
Education  held  at  RPI,  Troy,  N.Y.  in  June. 


1942 


RONALD  J.  BORRUP  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Sierracin,  Thermal  Systems,  Los  Angeles, 
Calif. 


CARL  I.  BENSON,  Jr.  is  chief  engineer  at 
Paragon  Gears,  Inc.,  in  Taunton,  Mass.  .  .  . 
LEONARD  HERSHOFF,  who  is  with  IBM, 
writes  that  he  is  very  active  in  community 
affairs,  is  president  of  B'nai  B'rith,  sings  with 
the  Mendelssohn  Club,  and  is  on  the  board  of 
directors  of  his  synagogue.  He  is  also  busy 
with  United  Jewish  Appeal.  His  son,  Larry,  an 
honor  graduate  of  Clark  University  and  the 
University  of  Rochester,  is  with  the  Industrial 
National  Bank  in  Providence,  R.I.  His 
daughter  graduated  from  Clark  with  honors, 
also.  ...  Dr.  RICHARD  T.  WHITCOMB,  who 
has  been  with  NACA  and  NASA  for  31  years 
and  heads  the  eight-foot  tunnels  branch  of 
Langley  Research  Center's  high  speed  air- 
craft division,  was  awarded  $25,000  cash  in 
June  by  NASA  for  his  invention  of  the  super- 
critical wing.  He  won  the  Collier  Trophy  in 
1954  for  applying  the  area  rule  to  design  of 
supersonic  aircraft,  and  last  year  he  received 
the  National  Medal  of  Science,  the  govern- 
ment's highest  honorary  scientific  award. 


1944 


GORDON  C.  ANDERSON,  P.E.  is  a  super- 
visory engineer  at  Insurance  Services  Office, 
New  York  City. 


1945 


JAMES  J.  CLERKIN,  Jr.  has  been  elected  to 
the  newly  created  position  of  executive  vice 
president-planning  of  General  Telephone  & 
Electronics  Corporation,  Stamford,  Conn. 
Prior  to  being  elected  executive  vice  presi- 
dent-telephone operating  group  in  1964,  he 
had  served  as  president  of  GTE  International 
Incorporated  since  1961.  Mr.  Clerkin  isaWPI 
trustee. 


Clerkin  '45 


Barrett  '46 


1946 


RICHARD  H.  ANSCHUTZ  has  been  named 
manager  of  the  new  management  systems 
department  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft's 
Research  and  Development  Center  in  Palm 
Beach,  Fla.  Formerly  he  was  manager  of  the 
engine  program  for  the  Air  Force  YF-1 6  light- 
weight fighter.  He  has  been  with  the  firm  27 
years. 

JOHN  H.  BARRETT  was  recently  named 
vice  president-chief  operating  officer  at 
Chas.  T.  Main  International,  Inc.,  Boston.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  general  management 
of  the  firm's  international  operations  in  over 
20  countries.  He  also  serves  in  an  executive 
capacity  in  the  management  of  joint  ventures 
involving  Main  and  foreign  engineering  com- 
panies. In  1972  he  became  vice  president  in 
charge  of  international  operations.  He  joined 
the  firm  in  1956  as  an  assistant  office  engi- 


neering manager  on  the  St.  Lawrence  Power 
Project.  He  is  a  registered  professional  engi- 
neer in  eight  states  and  serves  as  vice 
chairman  of  the  International  Engineering 
Committee  of  the  American  Consulting  Engi- 
neers Council. 

JAMES  I.  DICK  is  now  vice  president  — 
manager  of  the  press  division  at  Harris  Corp 
Fort  Worth,  Texas. . . .  The  Rev.  PRESCOTT  E. 
GROUT  has  assumed  his  ministerial  duties 
for  the  United  Methodist  Church  (South- 
bridge,  Mass.)  and  Charlton  Methodist.  Dur- 
ing his  career  he  has  served  as  a  pastor  in 
Maiden,  Springfield,  Whitinsville  and  Pea- 
body  and  as  an  officer  in  a  number  of  minis- 
terial associations.  He  has  also  taught  at 
Worcester  Junior  College,  New  England 
Institute  and  Nichols  College.  Previously  he 
was  employed  with  Pullet  Raising  for  Egg  Pro- 
duction and  served  as  a  plant  engineer,  elec- 
trical engineer,  and  a  draftsman. 


1948 


LAWRENCE  MINNICK  hasjoined  the  Electric 
PowerResearch  Institute,  Palo  Alto,  Calif.,  as 
director  of  the  nuclear  engineering  and 
operations  department  in  the  Nuclear  Power 
Division.  Formerly  he  was  vice  president, 
Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Company,  Westboro, 
Mass.;  vice  president-engineering,  Maine 
Yankee  Atomic  Power  Company;  and  vice 
president,  Vermont  Yankee  Nuclear  Power 
Corporation.  He  became  associated  with  the 
Yankee  Atomic  staff  in  1957.  Earlier  he  was 
with  Atomic  Power  Development  Associates, 
Detroit,  Mich. 


1949 


LEONARD  W.  FISH,  senior  vice  president- 
planning,  American  Gas  Association,  was  the 
author  of  the  article,  "Conservation —  A  Mar- 
keting Dilemma,  A  Research  Challenge" 
which  appeared  in  the  May  issue  of  Public 
Utilities  Fortnightly.  .  .  .  Currently  IRVING 
HASS  is  manager,  contract  publications,  for 
Sperry  Gyroscope  in  Great  Neck,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
DAVIDN.  POULIN.acareerstateemployee,  is 
the  new  regional  transit  manager  for  the  Dan- 
bury-Bethel  (Conn.)  area  and  other  points  in 
Fairfield  County. 


1950 


Dr.  RICHARD  G.  BESCHLE,  director  of  the 
biomedical  engineering  program  at  WPI 
developed  the  scientifically  designed  head- 
gear and  backpacks  which  are  being  used  in 
a  perception  study  conducted  jointly  by  Clark 
University  and  WPI.  The  goal  of  this  study  is  to 
determine  the  development  of  changes  in 
relation  to  perception  and  body  action.  .  .  . 
EVERETT  S.  CHILD,  Jr.  is  general  manager  of 
Child  Associates,  Inc.,  Seekonk,  Mass.  Both 
he  and  his  wife,  Janet,  are  real  estate  brokers. 
. . .  HAROLD  A.  STYFFE,  Jr. ,  who  recently  sold 
the  lyanough  Inn,  Hyannis,  Mass.,  is  now 
semi-retired. 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974/27 


This  is  your  key  to  unprecedented 
calculating  power. 

Only  Hewlett-  Packard  offers  it. 

In  1928  a  Polish  mathematician,  Dr.  Jan 
Lukasiewicz,  invented  a  parenthesis-free  but 
unambiguous  language.  As  it's  evolved  overthe 
years  it's  come  to  be  known  as  Reverse  Polish 
Notation  (RPN),  and  it's  become  a  standard 
language  of  computer  science. 

Today,  it's  the  only  language  that  allows  you  to 
"speak"  with  total  consistency  to  a  pocket-sized 
calculator.  And  the  only  pocket-sized  calculators 
that  use  it  are  Hewlett-Packard's 

lENTER+l  is  the  key  to  RPN  because  it  enables 
you  to  load  data  into  a  4-Register  Operational 
Stack  with  the  following  consequences: 

\m  You  can  always  enter  data  the  same  way, 
i.e.  from  left  to  right,  the  natural  way  to  read 
any  expression. 

^•You  can  always  proceed  through  your  problem 
the  same  way.  Once  you've  entered  a  number 
you  ask:  "Can  I  operate?"  If  yes,  you  perform 
the  operation.  If  no,  you  press  [ENTERtl  and 
key  in  the  next  number. 

,3.  You  can  see  all  intermediate  data  anytime,  so 
you  can  checkthe  progress  of  your  calcula- 
tions as  you  go. 

4«You  almost  never  have  to  re-enter  intermediate 
answers  — a  real  time-saver,  especially  when 
your  data  have  eight  or  nine  digits  each. 

5#You  don't  have  to  think  your  problem  all  the 
way  through  beforehand  to  determine  the  best 
method  of  approach. 

fom You  can  easily  recover  from  errors  since  each 
operation  is  performed  sequentially,  imme- 
diately after  pressing  the  appropriate  key,  and 
all  data  stored  in  the  calculator  can  be  easily 
reviewed. 

^  You  can  communicate  with  your  calculator 
efficiently,  consistently  and  without  ambiguity. 
You  always  proceed  one  way,  no  matter  what 
the  problem. 


The  HP-45  uses  RPN. 

That's  one  reason  it's  the  most  powerful  pre- 
programmed pocket-sized  scientific  calculator. 
Here  are  8  others: 


1 


•  It's  pre-programmed  to  handle  44  arithmetic, 
trigonometric  and  logarithmic  functions  and 
data  manipulation  operations  beyond  the 
basic  four  (  +  ,  — ,  X,  -*-). 


It  offers  a  4-Register  Opera- 
tional Stack  that  saves  inter- 
mediate answers  and 
automatically  retrieves  them 
when  they  are  required  in 
the  calculation. 


It  lets  you  store  up  to  nine  separate 
constants  in  its  nine  Addressable 
emory  Registers. 


Exceptional  Values.    A 

I 

2  2  5.  D  0 

3?5s.0D 

1 

[ 

1 

Jt  gives  you  a  "Last  X"  Register  for  error 
correction  or  multiple  operations  on  the  same 
number.  If  you  get  stuck  midway  through  a 
problem,  you  can  use  the  "Last  X"  Register 
to  unravel  what  you've  done. 

SCI 

It  displays  up  to  10  significant  digits 

in  eitherfixed-decimal  or  scientific 
notation  and  automatically  positions 
the  decimal  pointthroughout  its 
200-decade  range. 


HP-45:  $325°  HP-35:  $225* 

The  exceptional  value  of  these  exceptional 
machines  becomes  even  more  apparent  when  you 
considertheir  prices.  You  can  own  the  world's  most 
powerful  pocket-sized  preprogrammed  scientific 
calculator,  the  HP-45,  for  just  $325*  The  HP-35  costs 
only  $225* 

Ask  your  dealer  for  our  booklet, 
"ENTER  VS.EQUALS." 

It  demonstrates  the  superiority  of 
Dr.  Lukasiewicz'  language  by 
comparing  it  to  other  calculators' 
systemson  a  problem-by-problem 
basis,  and  it  explains  the  algo- 
rithm shown  to  the  left  which  lets 
you  evaluate  any  expression  on  a 
calculatorthat  uses  RPN  and  an 
Operational  Stack. This  booklet  is 


]  Start  | 

w 

■* 

>  ir  " 

Olf  Yes 

Key  in  next 
number 

If  No^> 

/Can  you\ 
perform  an 
operation? 

Press 

Do  all 

ENTERf 

operations 
possible 

6. 


7 


•D.MS    D.MS 


STO  I  RCL 


■It  converts  angles  from 
decimal  degrees,  radians 
or  grads  to  degrees/minutes/ 
seconds  and  backagain. 


R 


It  converts  polar  coordinates  to  rec- 
tangular coordinates.  ..or  vice-versa. 
In  seconds. 


8. 


I  Its  Gold"Shift"  Key  doubles  the  func- 
V     W  tions  of  24  keys  which  increases  the 
HP-45's  capability  without  increasing  its  size. 


The  HP-35  uses  RPN  too. 

If  the  HP-45  is  the  world's  most  powerful  pre- 
programmed pocket-sized  scientific  calculator,  the 
HP-35  is  runner-up.  It  handles  22  functions,  has  a 
4-Register  Stack,  one  Addressable  Memory  Register 
and  also  displays  up  to  10  digits  in  either  fixed- 
decimal  or  scientific  notation. 


must  reading  for  anyone  seriously  interested  in 
owning  a  powerful  pocket-sized  calculator. 

Available  at  leading  department  stores 
and  college  bookstores. 

Stop  in  for  a  free  copy  of  "Enter  vs.  Equals',' 
detailed  specifications  on  eitherthe  HP-35  or  HP-45 
and  demonstrations  of  both  machines.  Call  Hewlett- 
Packard  Customer  Service,  (408)  996-0100  for  the 
dealer  nearest  you. 

Ask  about  our  HP-65  and  HP-70 
while  you're  there. 

Chances  are,  he'll  also  have  ourtwo  newest 
pocket  calculators  on  display— the  fully  program- 
mable HP-65that  lets  you  write,  edit  and  record 
programs  on  magnetic  cards  and  the  HP-70  business 
calculatorthat  can  help  all  business  students  to 
excell  in  their  business  courses. 

A  Hewlett-Packard  pocket  calculator  can  help  you 
in  school  today,  on  the  job  tomorrow. 

HEWLETT  Jffj  PACKARD 


U 


Sales  and  service  from  172  offices  in  65  countries. 
Dept.  216  ,  19310  Pruneridge  Avenue,  Cupertino,  CA  95014. 


614/30 
''Domestic  U.S.A.  prices,  not  including  applicable  state  and  local  taxes. 


1952 


1958 


1961 


HAROLD  R.  ALTHEN  has  been  appointed  as 
manager  of  support  systems  for  the  MikroPul 
division  at  United  States  Filter  Corporation  in 
Summit.  N.J.  Previously  he  was  general  sales 
manager  for  Cochrane  Environmental  Sys- 
tems Division. . . .  W.  DIETER  HAUSER  writes: 
"Have  recently  been  appointed  as  managing 
director  of  Airco  Singapore  (PTE),  Ltd.,  and 
will  reside  with  my  family  in  Singapore,  half 
way  around  the  world  from  Worcester  and  just 
85  miles  north  of  the  equator." 


1955 


J.  R.NORMANDCASAUBONisnow assistant 
engineering  manager  at  AT.  &  T.  Co.  in  New 
York  City. . . .  RICHARD  L.  GOLDMAN  serves 
as  product  line  manager  at  Aertech  Indus- 
tries, Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  .  .  MARSHALL  LEV- 
INE  was  recently  awarded  patents  covering 
the  development  of  an  automated  blood  ana- 
lyzer. The  instrument,  of  which  Levine  is  a  co- 
inventor,  utilizes  a  new  principal  of  electronic 
pattern  recognition  to  examine  and  classify 
blood  cells,  a  boon  in  the  detection  of  leuke- 
mia and  other  blood  disorders.  The  invention 
is  embodied  in  a  computerized  microscope 
which  is  now  being  produced  by  Geometric 
Data  Corporation  of  Wayne,  Pa.,  a  company 
founded  in  1 970  by  Mr.  Levine  and  Dr.  Melvin 
Miller.  The  company,  a  subsidiary  of 
SmithKline  Corp.,  will  market  the  Hematrak 
instrument  to  large  hospitals  and  clinics 
worldwide.  .  .  .  CHARLES  F.  McDONOUGH  is 
plant  manager  at  American  Cyanamid's  plant 
at  Shippan  Point,  Stamford,  Conn.  At  this 
location  vulcanized  vegetable  oils  are  manu- 
factured for  use  in  rubber  compounding. 


1956 


EDWARD  A.  BLAKESLEE  serves  as  a 
research  instructor  at  Upstate  Medical 
Center,  Syracuse  N.Y.  .  .  .  JOHN  K.  DERBY 
has  been  appointed  business  manager  for 
polyvinyl  alcohol  in  the  Polymers  Chemicals 
Division  of  Air  Products  and  Chemicals,  Inc., 
Allentown,  Pa.  He  will  be  responsible  for  the 
production  and  marketing  of  polyvinyl 
alcohol,  incl uding  the  firm's  Vinol  and  Unisize 
lines.  Polyvinyl  is  used  in  the  adhesive,  paper, 
plastics,  and  textile  industries. 


1957 


PAUL  R  BESWICK  of  Beswick  Engineering, 
Ipswich, Mass  ,  visitedTHORDUR GRONDAL 
in  Reykjavik,  Iceland  last  summer.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  F.  CHARRON  received  his  MBA 
from  Rutgers  in  May.  .  .  PAULM.  MITCHELL, 
SIM,  is  on  a  temporary  two-year  assignment 
with  the  world-wide  expansion  of  operations 
of  Dresser  Industries  and  is  located  in 
Brussels.  Belgium  He  is  a  product  manager. 
DAVID  N  OLSON  serves  assales  manager 
for  Fleetwood  Enterprises.  Riverside.  Calif 


Dr.  JOSEPH  E.  BOGGIO  has  been  named  as 
one  of  the  Outstanding  Educators  of  America 
for  1974.  He  is  chairman  of  the  chemistry 
department  in  the  undergraduate  College  of 
Arts  and  Sciences  at  Fairfield  (Conn.)  Univer- 
sity and  has  been  with  the  university  since 
1964.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  H.  HOPF  serves  as  man- 
ager of  engineering  in  the  Irvington-Moore 
division  of  United  States  Natural  Resources, 
Inc.,  Jacksonville,  Fla. . . .  HOWARD  B.  PRITZ 
was  one  of  50  inventors  recently  honored  for 
patents  they  received  during  1973  as  staff 
members  of  the  Columbus  (Ohio)  Labora- 
tories of  Battelle  Memorial  Institute.  He  is  a 
co-holder  of  a  patent  for  developing 
apparatus  to  stencil-mark  a  moving  product. 
...  Dr.  SHELDEN  H.  RADIN  has  been 
promoted  to  the  rank  of  full  professor  of  phys- 
ics at  Lehigh  University,  Bethlehem,  Pa.  He 
has  been  a  member  of  the  faculty  since  1 963 
and  serves  as  chairman  of  the  physics 
achievement  test  committee  and  the  college 
entrance  examination  board.  A  specialist  in 
the  fields  of  kinetic  theory,  non-equilibrium 
statistical  mechanics  and  plasma  physics,  he 
is  the  author  of  a  number  of  technical  articles 


and  reviews.  He  has  served  as  a  physics  lec- 
turer under  the  Choate  School  honors  pro- 
gram and  as  a  physicist  with  Aeronautical 
Research  Associates  of  Princeton,  N.J. 


1959 


LEO  F.  COURNOYER  is  now  director  of  pro- 
gram evaluation  for  the  Santa  Clara  Calif. 
Valley  Water  District.  A  senior  engineer  with 
the  San  Jose-based  firm,  he  had  been 
employed  by  the  Federal  Power  Commission 
in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  THOMAS  HUM- 
PHREY, director  of  the  Bureau  of  Trans- 
portation Planning  and  Development  for  the 
Massachusetts  Department  of  Commerce, 
spoke  on  the  subject  of  local  highways  and 
the  national  highway  building  program  at  the 
July  meeting  of  the  Springfield  Kiwanis  Club. 
. .  WILLIAM  A.  SAIMOND  is  a  senior  engineer 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  South  Windsor, 
Conn.  .  .  .  EDWARD  A.  SAULNIER  writes  that 
IBM  is  now  marketing  a  series  of  three  com- 
puter programs  which  he  has  written  which 
provide  closed  loop  control  of  plastic 
injection  molding  machines.  In  conjunction 
with  this  project,  he  presented  a  paper  on  the 
subject  at  the  Regional  Technical  Confer- 
ence of  the  Society  of  Plastic  Engineers  in 
Chicago  last  March.  He  is  assigned  as  an 
advisory  systems  engineer  at  IBM's  Worces- 
ter branch  The  Saulniers  have  four  children, 
Susan(1 1),  Marianne(9),  Christopher (6) and 
Jonathan  (2)  .  DAVID  H.  TREADWELL,  Jr., 
serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  Anderson- 
Nichols,  Boston.  Mass 


Currently  RICHARD  S.  ADLER  serves  as  dis- 
trict operations  manager  for  American  Tele- 
phone &  Telegraph  Co.  (Longlines)  in 
Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  R.  BAKER  has 
been  named  manager  of  U.S.  industry  and 
application  sales  at  the  Foxboro  (Mass.) 
Company. ...  Dr.  JAY  A.  FOX  has  received  a 
$75  special  act  and  service  award  for  writing  a 
research  article  published  in  the  April  1974 
issue  of  the  Applied  Physics  Letter  Journal. 
He  is  a  research  physicist  at  Fort  Belvoir,  Va. 
and  a  member  of  the  American  Association  of 
Physics  Teachers.  This  is  the  fourth  article  for 
which  he  has  received  an  award  since  going 
to  Fort  Belvoir  in  1971.  .  .  .  Dr.  H.  RICHARD 
FREEMAN  is  serving  as  attitude  control  sub- 
system manager  in  the  recently  launched 
sixth  application  technology  satellite  (ATS-6) 
for  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space 
Administration.  The  ATS-6  will  be  used  for  the 
next  several  years  to  test  a  variety  of  new 
space  communications  concepts  requiring 
the  use  of  a  spacecraft  in  geo-synchronous 
orbit.  Dr.  Freeman,  who  joined  the  Goddard 
Space  Flight  staff  in  1964,  was  responsible  for 
the  design,  analysis,  fabrication  and  testing  of 
the  ATS-6  attitude  control  system. 

BRADLEY  E.  HOSMER  has  been  appointed 
vice  president  of  manufacturing  at  Branson 
Sonic  Power  Co.,  Danbury,  Conn.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  standard  products, 
ultrasonic  horn  production,  and  special  sys- 
tems manufacturing  groups.  The  company 
produces  and  markets  high  power  ultrasonic 
equipment  used  in  rigid  plastics  welding, 
ceramic  machinery,  fabric  and  film  sealing, 
fluxless  soldering  and  metal  welding.  Pre- 
viously Hosmer  was  with  Eastman  Kodak, 
Gillette,  Warner-Lambert,  General  Mills  and 
Booz-Allen  and  Hamilton  in  New  York.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  B.  HOSMER  is  a  senior  airport 
development  specialist  for  the  New  York 
State  Department  of  Transportation  in 
Albany.  .  .  .  NORBERT  F.  TOCZKO  is  a  civil 
engineer  at  the  Navy  Communication  Station 
in  Greece,  where  he  expects  to  remain  for  two 
years.  Last  year  he  passed  the  exam  for  his 
professional  engineering  registration  in  the 
District  of  Columbia.  In  December  the 
Toczkos  became  the  parents  of  their  second 
chifd,  a  daughter,  Amy. . . .  JAMES  M.  TOLOS 
is  manager-overseas  engineer  for  the  Ameri- 
can International  Group  in  New  York  City. . . . 
VEIKKO  O.  UOTINEN  works  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer in  the  nuclear  power  generation  division 
at  Babcock  &  Wilcox  Co.  Lynchburg,  Va. 


1962 


Born:  to  the  Rev.  and  Mrs.  ANDREW  D. 
TERWILLEGER  of  Elmwood,  Connecticut, 
their  first  daughter,  Michelle  Joy,  on  January 
21,  1974. 

Presently  STEPHEN  M.  WELLS  is  a  man- 
ager for  I.T.T.,  in  St.  Louis,  Missouri. 


30     '     tobei  1974     WPIJournal 


)  1974  Mobil  Oil  Corporation 


Some  of  our  most 
exciting  projects 

won't  pay  off 
for  25  years. 

Is  there  a  future  in  the  oil  business?  You  better  be- 
lieve it! 

Look  at  some  of  the  things  we'll  be  doing  over  the 
next  25  years,  and  beyond: 

Exploring  the  far  corners  of  the  globe,  in  a  never- 
ending  search  for  oil  and  gas; 

Looking  for  it  under  the  oceans,  too,  in  waters  a  mile 
deep  and  more; 

Expanding  our  fleet  of  supertankers  (200,000  tons 
and  larger),  and  building  deepwater  ports  for  faster, 
better  distribution  of  petroleum  throughout  the 
world; 

Building  newer,  bigger,  cleaner,  more  efficient  plants 
to  refine  crude  oil  into  useful  products; 

Entering  promising  new  fields  like  extracting  petro- 
leum products  from  oil  shale. ..converting  coal  into 
liquid  fuels. ..even  learning  how  to  tap  the  sun's 
energy. 

In  our  106  years,  we've  never  had  a  future  that 
looked  so  exciting. 

Is  there  a  future  in  the  oil  business?  Ask  us  again 
in  2001. 

Your  placement  officer  knows  all  about  us.  Or  if  you'd  rather, 
write  to  R.  W.  Brocksbank,  Manager  of  College  Relations, 
Mobil  Oil  Corporation,  Dept.  2315,  150  East  42nd  Street, 
New  York,  N.Y.  10017. 


Mobil 


An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M/F 


At  Western  Electric, 
we  put  science  to  work. 


Like  transistors 
before  them,  integrated 
circuits  are  spreading 

into  i  eery  nook  and 

cranny  of  the 
Bell  System. 


Microelectronic 

components  are 

manufactured  in 

contamination- free 

environments. 


Managing  all  this 
is  a  new  hired  of  talented  people.  Whatever 
their  specialties,  they  also  have  to  be 
comfortable  working  in  other  fundamental 
disciplines  once  left  only  to  "pure 
scientists".  At  Western  Electric,  we  put 
science  to  work. 


Mathematical 
modeling  has 

helped  predict 
-j  the  behavior 
•*  of  plastics 
in  injection  molding. 


Western  Electric 


We  make  things  that  bring  people  closer. 


1963 


1966 


A.  STEPHEN  OTIS  has  been  transferred  to 
Birmingham,  Ala.,  where  he  is  starting  a  new 
institutional  bond  operation  for  Merrill  Lynch. 
.  .  .  DONALD  H.  PASS,  SIM,  was  recently 
appointed  superintendent  of  rolling  at  U.S. 
Steel's  Lorain-Cuyahoga  (Ohio)  works.  In  his 
new  position  he  will  direct  all  rolling  opera- 
tions at  Lorain  works  which  include  the  pri- 
mary mills  and  the  bar  mills.  He  is  a  member  of 
the  Lorain  Area  Chamber  of  Commerce, 
Lorain  Works  Management  Club,  Elyria 
Country  Club,  and  is  also  the  chairman  of  the 
current  United  Fund  campaign  for  Lorain 
works. 


1964 


Married:  ERNEST  E.  CHENOWETH  to  Miss 
Eunice  Froeliger  in  South  Woodstock, 
Vermont  on  August  1 7, 1 974.  Mrs.  Chenoweth 
graduated  from  the  University  of  Connecticut 
and  has  been  a  counselor  for  the  Vermont 
State  Department  of  Corrections.  Her  hus- 
band teaches  and  coaches  at  Thayer  Acad- 
emy in  Braintree,  Mass.  and  was  a  member  of 
the  summer  faculty  of  Cape  Cod  Community 
College. 

Currently  ALFRED  H.  HEMINGWAY,  Jr.  is 
an  attorney  with  Morgan,  Finnegan,  Durham 
&  Pine  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  RONALD  E. 
LUBOWICZ  was  admitted  to  the  Massachu- 
setts bar  in  June.  He  attended  law  school  at 
the  University  of  Denver  and  is  now  employed 
byDistrigasCorp.  of  Boston. . . .  CLIFFORD  M. 
MacDONALD,  Jr.  is  a  major  in  the  U.S.  Army 
with  the  3rd  Infantry  Division.  .  .  .  BRUCE 
OCHIEANO  has  been  appointed  a  vice  presi- 
dent with  William  Blair,  Inc.  of  Los  Altos, 
Calif.,  a  real  estate  investment  firm  special- 
izing in  the  acquisition  and  management  of 
income  property  for  private  investors.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  A.  ZAGRYN  is  a  training  supervisor 
at  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hartford,  Conn. 


1965 


Married:  DONALD  G.  MUNSON  to  Miss  Janis 
E.  Tremblay  on  May  11,  1974  in  Topsfield, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Munson  graduated  from 
Bradford  Junior  College  and  the  University  of 
Miami.  Her  husband  iswith  United  Engineers 
and  Constructors,  Inc. 

PETER  J.  BOWES  is  in  sales  at  the  Medusa 
Cement  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio.  .  .  .  BURTON 
SH  AIR  has  been  appointed  an  electrical  engi- 
neer at  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp., 
Boston.  Associated  with  the  firm  since  1966, 
Shair  is  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts  and  Connecticut.  ...  Dr. 
DONALD  C.  SUNDBERG  is  with  the  depart- 
ment of  chemical  engineering  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Idaho  in  Moscow.  .  .  .  U.S.  Air  Force 
Captain  ERIC  P.  WARMAN  has  received  the 
U.S.  Army  Commendation  Medal  at  Hurlburt 
Field,  Fla.  He  was  decorated  for  meritorious 
service  as  commander  of  Detachment  8  of  the 
1 6th  Weather  Squadron,  Ft.  Riley,  Kansas.  He 
is  now  at  Hurlburt  Field  where  he  serves  as 
chief  of  utilities  for  the  4751st  Air  Defense 
Squadron,  a  unit  of  the  Aerospace  Defense 
Command. 


ROGER  J.  ARMATA  received  his  MBA  from 
the  University  of  Hartford  in  Connecticut  in 
June.  He  is  a  methods  supervisor  for  the 
Torrington  Company.  .  .  .  Capt.  ROLAND  C. 
BOUCHARD  (USAF)  is  a  system  integration 
engineer  in  the  program  office  at  Tactical 
Loran  System,  L.G.  Hanscom  Field,  Mass. 

WILLIAM  F.  ELLIOTT  has  been  named  to 
the  newly  created  post  of  vice  provost  for 
enrollment  planning  at  Carnegie-Mellon  Uni- 
versity, Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He  will  be  responsible 
for  coordination  of  admissions,  registration, 
financial  aid,  and  career  planning.  He  joined 
the  university  in  1 970  as  associate  director  of 
admissions  and  in  1 971  was  named  director. 
From  1966  until  1970  he  was  assistant 
directorof  admissions  at  WPI.  He  ispast  pres- 
ident of  the  Pennsylvania  Association  of 
College  Admissions  Counselors  and  is  an 
assembly  delegate  of  the  National  Associa- 
tion of  College  Admissions  Counselors. 

FRED  T.  ERSKINE  III,  a  graduate  research 
assistant  in  physics  and  astronomy  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Iowa,  also  works  part  time  at  Clark 
Lake  Radio  Observatory,  Borrego  Springs, 
Calif.  .  .  .  DAVID  R.  KLIMAJ  has  received  a 
master's  degree  in  engineering  administra- 
tion from  George  Washington  University, 
Washington,  D.C.  He  is  still  employed  with  the 
U.S.  Army  Night  Vision  Laboratory,  Ft. 
Belvoir,  Va.  .  .  .  ERNEST  KUNZ  serves  as  a 
technical  representative  at  Climax  Molybde- 
num Co.  Greenwich,  Conn.  He  also  is  presi- 
dent of  Afton  Cleaners,  Inc.,  Florham  Park, 
N.J.  and  a  co-owner  of  Kunz  &  Henzel,  R.E. 
Investments ROBERT  S.  LEVINE  is  man- 
ager-production and  inventory  control  at 
General  Electric,  Albuquerque,  N.M. 

GRANT  P.  MAIER  received  his  master  of 
science  degree  in  mechanical  engineering 
from  RPI  on  June  2.  He  is  a  senior  analytical 
engineer  with  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hartford, 
Conn.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  C.  NAPOLITANO  is  an 
electronic  controls  engineer  at  Butler  Auto- 
"matic,  Inc.,  Canton,  Mass.  .  .  .  KYLE  J. 
ONDRICEK  has  accepted  the  position  of  new 
products  manager  for  B.F.  Perkins  in 
Chicopee,  Mass. . . .  RONALD  F.  PICHIERRI  is 
a  senior  mechanical  engineer  at  Laser 
Graphic  Systems  Corp.,  Sudbury,  Mass.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  E.  SULLIVAN  works  as  a  senior 
information  systems  specialist  at  Computer 

Sciences  Corporation  in  Piscataway,  N.J 

HARRY  F.  WOOD  III,  a  registered  land  sur- 
veyor in  Meredith,  N.H.,  is  serving  as  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Hampshire  Land  Surveyors 
Association.  A  former  vice  president  of  the 
association,  he  had  also  served  as  a  director. 
He  is  a  member  of  the  American  Congress  of 
Surveying  and  Mapping  and  last  year  formed 
Associated  Surveyors  of  Meredith. 


1967 


Married:  ROY  C.  FEDOTOFF  and  Miss  Lydia 
N.  Oliynyk  on  June  22,  1974  in  Willimantic, 
Conneticut.  Mrs.  Fedotoff  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut's  School  of 
Education  and  is  currently  enrolled  in  a  mas- 
ter's program  in  reading  at  Boston  University. 
The  bridegroom,  who  has  an  ED  degree  from 
Polytechnic  Institute  of  New  York,  is  a  con- 
sulting engineer  for  Metcalf  and  Eddy  in 
Boston. 


Married:  JOSEPH  F.  GOULART  and  Miss 
Patricia  Steckmyer  on  June  24  in  Grand 
Island,  Nebraska.  The  bride  is  studying  indus- 
trial engineering  at  the  University  of  Michigan 
in  Dearborn.  Her  husband  is  a  product  devel- 
opment engineer  for  the  Ford  Motor  Com- 
pany. . . .  ELLIOT  F.  WHIPPLE  and  Miss  Dawn 
Arlene  Tetreault  on  June  29,  1974  in 
Attleboro,  Massachusetts.  PAUL  MALNATI, 
'66  and  GEORGE  H.  RAND,  Jr.  served  as 
ushers.  Mrs.  Whipple  is  a  graduate  of  the  Bris- 
tol Community  College  School  of  Nursing  and 
will  accept  a  position  as  a  registered  nurse  at 
the  Hospital  of  the  University  of  Pennsylvania. 
Her  husband  is  a  second  year  MBA  candidate 
at  the  Wharton  School  of  Finance  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Pennsylvania. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  RICHARD  A. 
ORMSBEE  their  first  child,  a  daughter, 
Sandra  Lynn,  on  September  26,  1973. 
Ormsbeeisafoodtechnologistworkinginthe 
fats  and  oils  research  laboratory  at  the  Best 
Foods  Research  Center  in  Union,  N.J. 

ROGER  V.  BARTHOLOMEW  is  teaching  at 
Strake  Jesuit  College   Prep  in   Houston, 

Texas STEVEN  FRYMER  won  first  place 

in  the  15th  New  England  Amateur  Chess 
Championship  Tournament  which  was  held 
in  Worcester  in  July.  He  is  an  engineer  for  the 
state  of  Massachusetts.  .  .  .  RICHARD  M. 
GUTKOWSKI  has  received  a  doctorate 
degree  in  civil  engineering  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Wisconsin  in  Madison.  He  is  an  assist- 
ant professor  of  civil  engineering  at  Colorado 
State  University.  .  .  .  RONALD  A.  MUCCI 
recently  received  his  PhD  in  electrical  engi- 
neering at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island.  His 
thesis  was:  "Design  and  Spatial  and 
Temporal  Filters  for  Rejection  of  Localized 
Interferences."  He  did  his  master's  work  at 
the  University  of  Michigan.  Currently  he  is 
associated  with  Raytheon. 

Dr.  EARL  T.  MYERS,  senior  scientist  with 
the  General  Electric  Company,  Fitchburg, 
Mass.,  was  the  featured  speaker  at  the  sec- 
ond annual  School  and  Scholarship  Awards 
Night  sponsored  by  the  Montachusett  Branch 
of  the  NAACP  in  Fitchburg  last  June.  Dr. 
Myers  is  the  author  of  numerous  articles  on 
aerodynamics  and  was  a  former  senior  con- 
sulting scientist  in  aerodynamics  forthe  Avco 
Corp. . . .  Presently  JOHN  B.  NANO,  Jr.  holds 
the  post  of  manager  of  process  development 
at  W.R.  Grace  &  Co.,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  . 
LAWRENCE  E.  NELSON  received  his  MA 
from  the  University  of  Northern  Colorado  last 
spring. . . .  Capt.  GEORGE  POMFRET  (USAF) 
has  been  assigned  to  Holloman  AFB,  N.M. 
from  Vandenberg  AFB,  Calif.  He  is  an 
astronautical  engineer  with  a  unit  of  the  Air 
Force  Systems  Command.  .  .  .  STEVEN  E. 
SCHUMER  is  with  United  Engineers  &  Con- 
structors, Philadelphia,  Pa.  He  works  on 
nuclear  power  plants.  .  .  .  NEIL  M.  SHEA 
recently  received  his  PhD  in  physics  from 
Rensselaer  Polytechnic  Institute.  .  .  .  HOW- 
ARD H.  SHORE,  who  has  received  his  Juris 
Doctor  from  the  University  of  San  Diego  Law 
School  and  his  LL.M  from  the  London  School 
of  Economics  and  Political  Science,  isnowan 
attorney  in  the  San  Diego  County  district 
attorney's  office.  ...  Dr.  JOHN  E.  SONNE 
received  his  VMD  degree  from  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  in  June  and  is  now  practicing 
in  Syracuse,  N.Y.,  specializing  in  small  animal 
medicine.  .  .  .  RICHARD  A.  SYMONDS  is  a 
senior  mechanical  engineer  at  Catalytic,  Inc. 


WPI  Journal  I  October  1974  /  33 


(engineering  consultants),  in  Charlotte,  N.C. 
The  Symondses.  the  parents  of  two 
daughters,  have  adopted  an  eight-month  old 
Vietnamese  boy,  Kevin  Richard,  who  arrived 
from  Saigon  in  April. 


1968 


Married:  ROBERT  E.  ANDERSON  and  Miss 
Marcia  J.  Metzler  on  June  14,  1974  in  New 
Britain,  Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated 
from  the  Methodist  Hospital  of  Brooklyn 
(N.Y.)  School  of  Nursing  and  is  with  the  Con- 
necticut Red  Cross  Blood  Program.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  senior  engineer  at  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.  in  the 
coordination  and  construction  service.  .  .  . 
GEORGE  D.  BURGESS  to  Miss  Margaret  C. 
Hansen  in  Worcester  on  June  9,  1974.  Mrs. 
Burgess  graduated  from  Maria  Regina 
College,  Syracuse.  N.Y.  The  groom  is  with 
York  Air  Conditioning  Co.  in  York,  Pa 

Born:  To  Dr.  and  Mrs.  DONALD  C. 
ALDRICH  a  daughter,  Lori  Ann,  on  December 
1 5, 1 973.  Aldrich,  who  received  his  PhD  from 
MIT  in  May,  is  a  research  engineer  at  E.  I. 
duPont  in  Philadelphia.  ...  To  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
ROBERT  MEADER  a  son,  Glenn,  on  May  9, 
1974.  (Glenn  has  an  older  brother,  age  3.) 
Meader  has  moved  to  the  position  of  regional 
planner  with  the  Coastal  Area  Planning  and 
Development  Commission  and  is  headquar- 
tered in  Savannah,  Ga.,  although  he  deals 
with  the  entire  coast  of  Georgia. 

KENNETH  E.  BATTLE  is  a  senior  process 
technology  engineer  for  Monsanto  in 
Cincinnati,  Ohio.  He  writes  that  he  is  greatly 
looking  forward  to  a  two-to-three  year  assign- 
ment on  projects  in  Belgium  and  France  start- 
ing this  fall..  ..  IVAN  V.  BEGGS  is  studying  for 
his  master  of  divinity  degree  at  Lutheran  The- 
ological Seminary,  Columbus,  Ohio.  .  .  . 
DONALD  P.  BERGSTROM  serves  as  a  field 
engineer  at  Cianbro  Corp.,  Pittsfield,  Maine. 
...  RICHARD  E.BROGGI  works  as  a  estimator 
at  C.  G.  Smith  Co.,  Harvey,  La...  NORMAN  E. 
BRUNELL  joined  the  legal  department  as  a 
patent  attorney  at  Beckman  Instruments,  Inc., 
in  Fullerton.  Calif,  last  July.  .  .  .  FRANK  H 
CORBIERE  is  in  missionary  training  at  Litera- 
ture Crusader  World  Headquarters,  Prospect 
Heights.  III.  Next  March  he  is  slated  to  go  to 
Cartagena.  Colombia  in  South  America, 
where,  with  a  team  of  1 0,  he  will  help  establish 
a  church  Previously  he  was  an  industrial 
engineer  at  Uniroyal  in  Naugatuck,  Conn. 

RONALD  E  JODOIN  starts  this  fall  as  a  vis- 
iting assistant  professor  in  physics  at 
Rochester  (NY)  Institute  of  Technology. 
ALLEN  A.  KUTZ  received  his  PhD  in  Chem- 
istry from  RPI(Troy.  N.Y.)lastMay. . .  .  PETER 
L  MARZETTA  is  employed  at  the  Naval 
Underwater  Systems  Center,  Portsmouth, 
R  I  PHILIP  A  MATTSON  is  at  Chattanooga 
State  Technical  &  Community  College,  Chat- 
tanooga. Tenn  JOHN  H  McCABE  has 
been  promoted  to  vice  president  of  Carl 
Gordon  Industries.  Inc  ,  Worcester  Pre- 
viously he  had  served  as  assistant  treasurer 
for  Gordon  Industries.  Inc  ,  parent  Company 
of  Fox  Specialty,  Inc  .  Oxford  Plastics.  Inc  , 
and  Hammond  Plastics,  the  nation's  largest 
independent  manufacturer  and  distributor  of 
polystyrene  He  joined  Gordon  in  1970  as 
director  of  information  systems  for  Hammond 


Plastics.  Last  year  he  was  promoted  to  assist- 
ant treasurer.  He  also  serves  as  treasurer  for 
Fox  Specialty,  Inc.,  and  Oxford  Plastics.  Inc. 
WILLIAM  J.  MCCARTHY  has  been 
promoted  to  assistant  actuary  at  State  Mutual 
Life  Assurance  Co.  of  America.  Worcester. 
He  joined  State  Mutual  as  an  actuarial  associ- 
ate in  1971  and  was  promoted  to  senior 
actuarial  associate  two  years  later.  Recently 
he  became  a  fellow  of  the  Society  of 
Actuaries. . . .  DAVID  B.  MORRIS  is  a  new  pro- 
cess development  engineer  at  Abcor,  Inc.. 

Cambridge,  Mass CARY  A.  PALULIS  has 

been  promoted  to  specialty  products 
coordinator  at  Exxon  Company,  U.S.A.'s 
Pelham,  N.Y.  area  office.  .  .  .  Presently 
ROBERT  T.  PLEINES  serves  as  a  project 
engineer  for  Monsanto  in  Indian  Orchard. 
Mass.  .  .  .  FRANCIS  J.  POSSELT  is  a  senior 
facilities  engineer  at  Griffin  Pipe  Products 
Co.,  Florence,  N.J.  .  .  .  DOUGLAS  A.  RILEY 
works  as  a  resident  engineer  for  Camp 
Dresser  &  McKee  in  Boston. ...  Dr.  E.  WAYNE 
TURNBLOM  is  a  research  chemist  for  East- 
man Kodak  Co..  Rochester,  N.Y.  From  1972 
until  1974  he  was  an  instructor  at  Princeton 
University. 


1969 


Married:  MICHAEL  GAN  and  Miss  Judith  M. 
Znamierowski  in  Enfield,  Connecticut  in 
June.  The  bride  attended  Central  Con- 
necticutState and  AIC.  Springfield,  Mass.  Her 
husband  is  with  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East  Hart- 
ford, Conn. . . .  ROBERT  J.  MAGARIAN  to  Miss 
Suzanne  Sharigian  on  June  30  in  Worcester. 
Mrs.  Magarian  graduated  from  Framingham 
State  College  and  teaches  in  Marion,  Mass. 
. . .  KIMBALL  M.  WATSON  and  Miss  Rebecca 
L.  Duncklee  on  June  29,  1974  in  West 
Lebanon,  New  Hampshire.  Mrs.  Watson,  a 
graduate  of  the  University  of  New  Hampshire, 
is  a  music  supervisor  in  the  Concord  schools. 
Her  husband  is  with  IBM  in  Burlington,  Vt. 

Dr.  ARTHUR  M.  AFRAME,  who  recently 
received  his  PhD  in  physics  from  RPI,  is 
currently  a  physicist  at  MEPPSCO  in  Boston. 
. .  .  U.S.  Air  Force  Capt.  WARREN  L.  ANDER- 
SON has  graduated  from  the  Strategic  Air 
Command's  missile  combat  crew  operational 
readiness  training  course  at  Vandenberg 
AFB,  Calif.  He  is  now  at  Grand  Forks  AFB, 
N.D.  for  duty  and  training  as  a  missile  launch 
officer. . . .  DENNIS  AGIN  of  Maynard,  Mass.,  a 
systems  analyst  at  Raytheon,  recently  served 
as  campaign  manager  for  William  C.  Mullin.  a 
candidate  for  the  Democratic  nomination  for 
the  office  of  state  representative  to  the  Gen- 
eral Court  from  the  48th  Middlesex  District. 
Agin,  who  is  a  member  of  Citizens  for 
Participation  in  Political  Activities,  has  also 
been  very  active  in  scouting.  .  . .  ANDREW  F. 
DURETTE  is  vice  president-engineering  at 
Micro  Components  Corp.,  Cranston,  R.I. 


After  spending  nine  months  in  Annaba. 
Algeria  with  General  Electric  on  business. 
DAVID  W.  EATON  is  now  a  systems  program- 
mer with  Honeywell,  Inc.  in  Phoenix.  Arizona. 
.  .  .  JOHN  C.  GAVITT  is  a  field  engineer  with 
Sperry  Gyro  Sperry  Rand  Corp.,  Great 
Neck.  N.Y.  .  .  .  HAROLD  F.  HEMOND  has 
received  his  MA  in  botany  from  Connecticut 
College  in  New  London.  Currently  he  is  dep- 
uty director  of  Water  and  Related  Resources 
for  the  Connecticut  Department  of  Environ- 
mental Protection PATRICK  W.  KELLEY 

and  ALEXANDER  R.  MALCOLM  have 
received  MBA's  from  Rutgers  in  New  Jersey. 
.  .  .  ROBERT  W.  MAYER  is  a  research  engi- 
neer for  Amerace  Corp.  in  the  Development 

Center  at  Washington  Twp.,  N.J ROBERT 

P.  ROCCO  has  received  his  doctor  of  medi- 
cine degree  from  the  College  of  Medicine  at 
the  University  of  Vermont.  He  will  intern  at  the 
Good  Samaritan  Hospital  in  Portland,  Ore- 
gon. .  .  .  BARRY  N.  SHIFFRIN  recently 
received  his  master's  degree  in  computer 
systems  from  the  State  University  of  New  York 
at  Binghamton. 


1970 


Married:  JOHN  J.  RING.  Jr.  to  Miss  Elvera  H. 
Bodruk  in  Milford.  Massachusetts  in  June. 
Mrs.  Ring  is  employed  at  Cushing  Hospital  in 
Framingham.  The  groom  is  a  quality  control 
engineer  at  3M  Corporation  in  Cambridge, 
Mass. . . . 

GREGORY  W.  BACKSTROM  has  received 
his  MBA  from  the  University  of  Michigan  and 
is  now  a  financial  analyst  at  Norton  Company 
in  Worcester. . . .  DINKAR  V.  DESAI  works  for 
KuliteSemiconductor.  Inc.  in  Ridgefield.  N.J. 
...  DOMENIC  J.  FORCELLA.  Jr.  isan  environ- 
mental consultant  to  Central  Connecticut 
State  College  in  a  federally  funded  program 
offering  assistance  to  communities  with  envi- 
ronmental problems.  He  also  serves  on  the 
Plainville  (Conn.)  Inland  Wetlands  Commis- 
sion. Having  recently  completed  course 
requirements  for  his  MSCE  at  WPI,  he  now 
plans  to  enter  the  University  of  Connecticut 
Law  School. . .  .  JOHN  J.  LYONS  is  a  systems 
programmer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  . 
Presently  MICHAEL  D.  McCORMICK  serves 
as  a  product  specialist  and  sales  planner  for 
the  G.E.  semi-conductor  products  depart- 
ment in  Auburn,  N.Y. 

DAVID  T.  ROCKWELL,  who  has  just  com- 
pleted three  years  service  as  an  army  officer, 
was  recently  named  executive  director  of  the 
Community  Health  Education  Council,  Inc., 
WestSpringfield,  Mass.  Hewasoneof  thefirst 
volunteers  to  work  with  CHEC  when  it  started 
in  1970.  In  the  army  he  served  as  a  finance 
corps  officer  at  Fort  Carson,  Colo.,  and 
headed  the  Dependent  Youth  Activity  Pro- 
gram as  well  as  the  Alcohol  and  Drug 
Education  Center  in  Fort  Carson.  .  .  Dr 
SOLOMON  ROSENBLATT  has  graduated 
from  the  University  of  Connecticut  Medical 
School  in  Farmington  and  expects  to  intern  at 
Mercy  Hospital  Medical  Center  in  San  Diego, 
Calif.  .  RALPH  F  SBROGNA  received  his 
juris  doctor  degree  from  Suffolk  University 
Law  School,  Boston,  in  June  and  is  now  asso- 
ciated with  the  law  firm  of  Crowe  &  Knoll  in 

Boston MICHAEL  F.  SULLIVAN  is  a  field 

engineer  for  Combustion  Engineering  in 


34     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


We  make  big  tonnage  items  and  small  ones  too. 
Naturally,  marketing  these  products  takes  a 
well-coordinated  sales  effort. 


At  Bethlehem  we  manufacture  a 
wide  variety  of  products  serving 
many  important  markets.  The  steel 
business  is  our  nation's  basic  in- 
dustry. Engineers  seeking  mean- 
ingful careers  will  find  plenty  of 
opportunities  with  us. 

What  can  an  engineer  do  in  our 
steel  plant  operations?  You  name 
it — production  supervision,  quality 


and  process  control,  mechanical 
design  and  maintenance.  How 
about  Sales  work?  A  career  in  dis- 
trict or  home  office  sales,  as  a 
contracting  manager,  or  as  a  sales 
engineer  are  all  possibilities. 
If  you  think  you  can  produce,  why 
not  give  us  a  chance  to  sell  you  on 
our  corporation? 
Watch  for  our  recruiter's  visit. 


Meantime,  pick  up  a  copy  of  our 
booklet  "Bethlehem  Steel's  Loop 
Course"  at  your  placement  office. 
Or  write:  Director — College  Rela- 
tions, Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation, 
Bethlehem,  PA  18016. 


BfTHKHEM 
STEEL 


an  equal  opportunity 
employer 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mess.  D1605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


RAYMOND  SKOWYRA  is  attending  Harvard 
University  this  fall.  .  .  .  RICHARD  E. 
TEITELMAN  is  a  systems  education  instruc- 
tor at  Sperry  UNIVAC  in  Princeton,  N.J. 


Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  PHILIP  C.  WARREN  has 
been  promoted  to  mechanical  superinten- 
dent at  Nashua  Corp.  in  Nashua,  N.H.  He 
joined  the  firm  in  1 973  after  completing  three 
years  service  as  a  maintenance  officer  for 
infantry  ordnance  in  the  U.S.  Army.  Since  he 
became  associated  with  the  corporation,  he 
has  successfully  completed  several  projects 
in  the  Toner  Manufacturing  Area. . . .  ALAN  P. 
ZABARSKY  is  a  supervisor,  system  require- 
ments and  planning  group,  Bell  Labs, 
Indianapolis,  Ind. 


1971 


Married:  CHARLES  I.  ANDRIANOPOULOS 
and  Miss  Deborah  Ann  Waldron  in  Worcester 
on  July  7,  1974.  The  bride,  an  art  teacher, 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College,  Paxton. 
The  bridegroom  is  with  New  England  Tele- 
phone Co.,  Framingham,  Mass. .  .  .  EDWARD 
E.  GEORGE,  Jr.  to  Miss  Patricia  A.  Fogarty  on 
June  16,  1974  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  George  is 
with  New  England  Telephone  Co.  The  groom 
is  a  production  planner  at  Jamesbury  Corpo- 
ration. .  .  .  LAWRENCE  E.  RAINVILLE  to  Miss 
Honora  E.  O'Hearn  on  June  29,  1974  in 
Stoughton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Rainville 
graduated  from  Framingham  State  College 
and  teaches  mathematics  at  Randolph  High 
School.  Her  husband  is  with  Datatrol  in 
Hudson,  Mass. 

Married  MARK  R.  SAVIET  and  Miss  Patri- 
cia M.  Iglar  on  July  27  in  Fitchburg,  Massa- 
chusetts. The  bride,  an  Anna  Maria  graduate, 
teaches  music  in  Ashburnham.  The  groom  is 

employed  by  Jamesbury  Corp. .Worcester 

GEORGE  M.  SIMMONS  to  Miss  Mary  Ann 
DosSantos  on  June  1  in  Waterbury,  Con- 
necticut Mrs.  Simmons  graduated  from  the 
University  of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  RONALD  C 
STRAND  to  Miss  Joann  D.Ritchie  on  June  23, 
1974  in  Lexington,  Massachusetts.  Mrs 
Strand  graduated  from  Framingham  State 
College.  ERNEST  M.  WOLSHIN  and  Miss 
Susan  M.  Kowalchuk  on  June  22  in  Norwich. 
Connecticut  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Anna 
Maria  College  Her  husband  is  a  clinical 
research  associate  for  Astra  Pharmaceutical 
Products,  Inc..  Worcester 


ROBERT  J.  ALLARD,  Jr.  is  manager  of  real 
estate  and  construction  at  Commonwealth 
Trading,  Inc.,  Avon,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  A. 
BAILEY  works  at  Vitro  Labs,  Silver  Spring, 
Md.       0316 

.  .  .  EDWARD  F.  CUNNINGHAM  serves  as  a 
sales  engineer  at  Fafnir  Bearing  Co.,  New 
Britain,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  A.  GIORDANO  is  a 
planning  assistant  at  Worcester  (Mass.) 
Bancorp.  .  .  .  GARRY  GLECKAL  has  been 
appointed  a  math  counsellor  and  graphic  arts 
instructor  by  the  North  Middlesex  (Mass.) 
Regional  District  School  Committee.  .  .  . 
ANDREW  J.  GRIFFIN  is  employed  as  a  devel- 
opmentengineer  at  American  Optical  in  Bed- 
ford, Mass.  .  .  .  THEODORE  D.  LYNCH  holds 
the  position  of  manager  of  commercial  sales 
and  marketing  at  Fiber  Materials,  Inc., 
Biddeford,  Me. 

CLAUDE  P.  MANCEL  is  manager  of  Procter 
&  Gamble's  European  Technical  Center  in 
Strombeek-Bever,  Belgium.  .  .  .  ROBERT  P. 
MILLS,  Jr.  has  been  promoted  to  senior 
acturial  associate  at  State  Mutual  Life  Assur- 
ance Co.  of  America  in  Worcester.  He  joined 
State  Mutual  as  an  actuarial  assistant  in  1971 
and  was  promoted  to  actuarial  associate  in 
1973. .  . .  JOHN  NIESTEMSKI  is  with  General 
Electric  in  Syracuse,  N.Y.  .  .  .  FRED 
MULLIGAN  works  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Cutler  Associates,  Worcester.  .  .  .  JOHN  G. 
PARILLO  has  received  his  M.Eng.,  environ- 
mental engineering,  from  RPI  in  Troy,  N.Y. . . . 
WILLIAM  A.  PHILBROOK  has  been  promoted 
to  the  rank  of  first  lieutenant  in  Headquarters 
Company,  1st  Battalion  181st  Infantry  of  the 
26th  (Yankee)  Infantry  Division  in  Worcester. 
He  was  appointed  to  the  Massachusetts  Army 
National  Guard  in  1973.  He  is  employed  by  the 
David  Clark  Co.,  Inc.,  as  an  electrical 
engineer. 

JOHN  G.  PLONSKY  received  his  MBA  from 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  in  June  and  is 
currently  employed  as  a  contract  adminis- 
trator for  General  Electric  in  Binghamton, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  RALPH  REDDICK,  who  is  with 
Kimberly-Clark,  played  string  bass  in  a  jazz 
concert  performed  last  June  in  memory  of  the 
great  Duke  Ellington  in  Thomaston,  Conn.  He 
has  played  the  lead  in  "Music  Man"  and  is 
now  studying  composition  at  Hartt  School  of 
Music.  He  has  also  taught  guitar,  is  studying 
piano,  and  plays  the  bagpipes  in  the  Upper 
Guernseytown  Pipe  Band.  During  the 
summer  he  attended  a  six-week  session  in 
composition  in  Europe  with  the  Siena 
Summer  Session  in  Music  Association.  .  .  . 


1972 


Married:  MARK  A.  FRITZ  to  Miss  Marcia  J. 
Lamberto  in  Worcester  on  May  26, 1974.  Mrs. 
Fritz  graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College, 
Paxton.  Her  husband  is  president  of  Yankee 
Data,  Inc.,  Berlin,  N.H.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  L. 
KUDRAVETZ  to  Miss  Ellen  M.  Tousignant  in 
Biddeford,  Maine  on  July  27, 1 974.  The  bride 
is  a  staff  member  at  Peter  Bent  Brigham  Hos- 
pital, Boston.  Mr.  Kudravetz  is  a  faculty 
member  and  chairman  of  the  science  depart- 
ment at  Gardner  (Mass.)  High  School.  .  .  . 
TIMOTHY  F.  LASKOWSKI  to  Miss  Janice  P. 
Malachowski  on  June  22,  1974  in  Chelsea, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  was  an  elementary 
teacher  at  St.  Stanislaus  School  in  Chelsea. 
The  groom  is  an  analytical  engineer  for  Power 
Technologies,  Inc.  of  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
DAVID  NOWAK  and  Miss  Nancy  Ann  Zuraw 
on  May  25,  1 974  in  Northampton,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Nowak  graduated  from  Worcester 
Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing.  The 
bridegroom  has  accepted  a  position  in  the 
ocean  engineering  division  of  General 
Dynamics,  Groton,  Conn. 

Married:  JOHN  O'BRIEN  and  Miss  Marilyn 
Thorne  of  Millis,  Massachusetts  in  May.  The 
bride,  a  Becker  graduate,  is  a  medical  secre- 
tary. Her  husband  works  for  General  Electric, 
San  Jose,  Calif,  where  he  is  in  advanced  pro- 
duction planning  in  the  nuclear  energy 
division. . . .  RICHARD  L.  PASTORE  and  Miss 
Catherine  Procopio  in  June  in  East  Green- 
wich, Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Pastore  graduated 
from  Albertus  Magnus  College.  Mr.  Pastore 
has  been  studying  at  WPI  as  a  graduate  stu- 
dent. .  .  .  ROBERT  H.  PINCUS  to  Miss  Alice 
Hibbert  on  June  1 ,  1974.  The  bride  received 
her  BA  in  chemistry  from  Anna  Maria  College 
and  her  MS  from  Holy  Cross.  The  bridegroom 
received  his  MSEE  from  the  University  of  New 
Hampshire  this  year  and  is  now  with  GTE  Syl- 

vaniain  Needham  Heights,  Mass JOHN  H. 

TOLOCZKO  to  Miss  Paula  H.  Goldsmith  of 
Framingham,  Massachusetts  on  July  6, 1 974. 
Mrs.  Toloczko  graduated  from  Qui nsigamond 
Community  College,  Worcester.  The  groom  is 
a  quality  control  engineer  for  Hamilton  Stand- 
ard in  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

JOSEPH  ARAYAS  received  his  MBA 
degree  at  the  May  graduation  of  Boston  Uni- 
versity's College  of  Business  Administration. 
. . .  CHARLES  J.  BRINE  recently  was  awarded 
his  master's  degree  in  chemical  oceanogra- 
phy from  the  College  of  Marine  Studies  at  the 
University  of  Delaware  in  Newark.  His  thesis 
was  entitled:  "Renatured  Chitin  as  a  New 
Marine  Resource."  . . .  DENNIS  J.  DAVOREN 
works  for  the  Exxon  Chemical  Co.  of  Linden, 
N.J.  as  an  engineer  in  the  technology  division. 


36     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


. . .  JOHN  R.  FERRARO  has  been  promoted  to 
associate  engineer  in  the  transmission  and 
substation  engineering  department  at  North- 
east Utilities  in  Berlin,  Conn.  He  joined  the 
firm  in  1972  as  an  assistant  engineer.  .  .  . 
HENRY  J.  GREENE  received  his  MS  in 
mathematics  from  Wichita  (Kansas)  State 
University  in  May. 

JIM  HALL  entered  Harvard  Business 
School  in  September.  .  .  .  DAVID  B. 
HORROCKS  serves  as  an  environmental 
facilities  engineer  at  Texas  Instruments,  Inc., 
Attleboro,  Mass.  Recently  he  received  his  MS 
in  urban-environmental  studies  from  Rensse- 
laer Polytechnic  Institute.  .  .  .  ROBERT  B. 
KELLEHER,  Jr.  is  with  GTE  Sylvania  in 
Needham,  Mass.  . .  .  JAMES  V.  LACY  serves 
as  a  member  of  the  technical  staff  at  Bell  Tele- 
phone Labs.,  Holmdel,  N.J Dr.  JAMES  M. 

PERRY  is  an  assistant  professor  in  computer 
science  at  WPI.  He  received  his  PhD  from  the 

University  of  Connecticut  this  year JOHN 

ZORABEDIAN,  Jr.,  now  a  supervisor  in  the 
capacitor  department  of  General  Electric  in 
Hudson  Falls,  N.Y.,  is  also  studying  for  his  MS 
in  industrial  administration  at  Union  College. 


1973 


Married:  RONALD  K.  BOHLIN  and  Miss  Mar- 
tha D.  Whiteman  on  August  10,  1974  in-Fair- 
field,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Bohlin,  a  special 
education  teacher,  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  College.  Her  husband  is  a  data  systems 
design  supervisor  at  American  Teleophone  & 
Telegraph  Co.,  White  Plains,  N.Y. . . .  JOHN  J. 
GIZIENSKI,  Jr.  and  Miss  Linda  D.  Corriveau 
on  June  1,  1974  in  Manchester,  New  Hamp- 
shire. The  bride  graduated  from  Keene  State 
College.  The  groom  is  a  manufacturing  engi- 
neer for  General  Electric  Co.,  Providence, 
R.I. . . .  RICHARD  W.  GRAHAM  to  Miss  Susan 
L.  Claar  in  Millis,  Massachusetts  on  June  8. 
Mrs.  Graham,  a  graduate  of  the  Concord 
(N.H.)  School  of  Nursing,  is  employed  at 
Medfield  State  Hospital.  The  bridegroom 
works  for  New  England  Telephone  Company. 
.  .  .  WILLIAM  E.  HENRIES  to  Miss  Diane  C. 
Fiasconaro  on  July  27, 1 974  in  Ansonia,  Con- 
necticut. Mrs.  Henries  graduated  from  Anna 
Maria  College. 

Married:  DARWIN  W.  KOVACS,  Jr.  and 
Miss  Susan  R.UIasik  in  Norwich,  Connecticut 
on  June  22,  1974.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of 
Southern  Connecticut  State  College  with  a 
degree  in  elementary  education.  Mr.  Kovacs 
is  a  transportation  analyst  with  the  New  York 
State  Department  of  Transportation  in 
Albany. .  .  .  THOMAS  MIKOLINNAS  and  Miss 
Laurie  McKinstry  on  June  1 , 1 974  in  Sterling, 
Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Mikolinnasisagraduate 
of  Fitchburg  State  College.  Her  husband  is  a 
candidate  for  his  master's  degree  at  WPI  and 
works   at   Power  Technologies,    Inc.. 

Schenectady,  N.Y DONALD  F.  MOQUIN 

and  Miss  Joyce  D.  Kasper  in  Framingham, 
Massachusetts  on  May  25.  Mrs.  Moquin  is  a 
senior  at  Framingham  State  College.  The 
groom  is  a  transmissions  engineer  for  the 

New  England  Power  Co.,  Westboro,  Mass 

ANDREWC.MURCHtoMissCynthiaA.  Heald 
on  July  6,  1974  in  Chester  Depot,  Vermont. 
The  bride,  a  Becker  graduate,  is  employed  by 
Dr.  Samuel  Jones,  D.O.  Her  husband  is  an 
engineer  for  the  city  of  Worcester.  .  .  . 


RICHARD  H.  PAGE  and  Miss  Linda  Mary 
Delia  Giustina  on  July  20,  1974  in  West 
Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Page,  who 
graduated  from  Westfield  State  College, 
teaches firstgrade.  The  bridegroom  is  associ- 
ated with  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering 
Corporation. 

Married:  PAUL  J.  PARULIS  and  Miss  Patri- 
cia Ann  Hughes  on  June  16,  1974  in  New 
York.  The  bride  graduated  from  Fairleigh 
Dickinson  University,  Teaneck,  N.J.  Mr. 
Parulis  is  with  Richmond  Screw  Anchor  Co., 
Inc.,  Forth  Worth,  Texas.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  A. 
RICHARDS  to  Miss  Lisa  E.  Delia  Vecchia  in 
Bristol,  Connecticut  on  July  20.  The  bride 
attended  Hartford  Hospital  School  of  Nursing 
and  Central  Connecticut  State  College.  Her 
husband  is  a  scientific  software  designer  at 
the  Superior  Electric  Company  in  Bristol.  . .  . 
LAURENCE  J.  SIGLER  to  Miss  Susan  N.  Coe 
on  May  27,  1974  in  Rindge,  New  Hampshire. 
Mrs.  Sigler,  a  graduate  of  Worcester  State, 
owns  and  operates  Susan  Coe  Dance  Arts. 
She  also  is  employed  in  the  physical  therapy 
department  at  the  Memorial  Hospital.  The 
groom  currently  majors  in  music  at  Anna 
Maria  College  and  works  in  the  grinding 
machine  division  at  Warner  &  Swasey  Co. . . . 
RICHARD  F.  SOCHA  and  Miss  Luanne  Neary 
in  East  Hartford,  Connecticut  on  May  4, 1974. 
The  bride  is  a  Becker  graduate.  Her  husband 
is  employed  by  Western  Electric  Co.  in 
Andover,  Mass.  .  .  .  NORMAN  D.  STALLER 
and  Miss  Donna  M.  Jeannotte  in  Worcester  on 
June  16,  1974.  Mrs.  Staller  graduated  from 
Anna  Maria  College.  The  bridegroom  is  with 
Polaroid  Corp.  in  Cambridge,  Mass. 

WILLIAM  N.  AULT  is  now  working  at 
Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  DAVID  CIRKA  teaches 
mathematics  in  the  Athol-Royalston  (Mass.) 
Regional  School.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  J.  CLOUTIER 
serves  as  a  support  engineer  at  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston. . . .  WILLIAM  E.  CORMIER 
works  as  a  research  engineer  at  Mobil 
Research  &  Development,  Paulsboro,  N.J  — 
ALLEN  D.  CRANE  is  with  New  London 
(Conn.)  Laboratory.  .  .  .  JAMES  M.  FOSTER 
works  for  General  Electric  in  Schenectady, 


N.Y CHARLES  W.  KAVANAGH  is  a  field 

engineer  at  Turner  Construction  in  New  York 
City. . . .  ANNE  LAFFAN's WPI  master'sthesis, 
rewritten  as  a  paper,  was  accepted  for  pre- 
sentation at  the  Second  International  Confer- 
ence on  Automatic  Pattern  Recognition 
which  was  held  in  Copenhagen,  Denmark  in 
August.  Her  thesis  was:  "A  new  tool  for  auto- 
matic pattern  recognition."  She  is  employed 
at  Honeywell. 

1/LT.  EDWARD  F.  MAHER,  a  biomedical 
engineer  at  Brooks  AFS,  Texas  with  the  Air 
Force  School  of  Aerospace  Medicine,  is  a 
member  of  a  highly  skilled  team  which  is  con- 
ducting laser  beam  experiments.  His  special- 
ized team  identifies  eye  hazards  associated 
with  laser  operations  and  develops  adequate 
safety  criteria  and  protective  measures  for 

those  working  with  the  laser KENNETH  C. 

MUCCINO  has  been  named  assistant  engi- 
neer, Electric  Operations,  in  the  Connecticut 
Light  and  Power  Company's  Norwalk  District 
operation.  He  joined  the  company  last  year  in 
the  electrical  engineering  department.  .  .  . 
HIMANSHU  V.  PANDE  is  a  chemist  at  Willard 
India  Ltd.,  New  Delhi,  India.  . .  . 

ELIZABETH  C.  POULIN,  who  was  with 
Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston,  is  now  a  graduate 
student  in  mechanical  engineering  at  WPI's 
Alden  Research  Laboratories.  .  .  .  ALI 
SHAFIGH  is  studying  for  his  MA  in  electrical 
engineering  at  Northeastern  University,  Bos- 
ton. .  .  .  JOSEPH  F.  SIRECI,  Jr.,  SIM,  has 
joined  the  hand  tools  division  of  Litton  Indus- 
trial Products  in  New  Britain,  Conn,  where  he 
will  be  supervisor  of  manufacturing  engineer- 
ing. Most  recently  he  was  chief  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  Reed  and  Prince  Mfg.  Co. 
in  Worcester.  Previously  he  was  chief  engi- 
neer at  Donahue  Industries  in  Shrewsbury 

ROBERT  R.  WOOD  heads  Bobby  Wood  Rac- 
ing Enterprises  in  Whitinsville,  Mass. 


manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbury  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


WPI  Journal  '  October  1974  I  37 


1974 


Married:  DUANE  R.  ARSENAULT  to  Miss 
Sandra  L.  Bolduc  on  January  11,  1974  in 
Gardner,  Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a 
receptionist  for  Dr.  Raymond  E.  Levesque. 
The  bridegroom  is  with  Gem  Industries,  Inc., 
Gardner. . . .  WILLIAM  M.  BLOCK  to  Miss  Mari 
A.  Ryan  on  June  8  in  North  Easton,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Block  attended  Anna  Maria 
College  in  Paxton.  .  .  .  TOM  H.  FIELDSEND 
and  Miss  Vondelle  Jean  Fowler  on  July  21, 
1974  in  Hudson,  Massachusetts.  The  bride, 
who  works  in  the  intensive  care  unit  at  Memo- 
rial Hospital,  Worcester,  graduated  from 
Framingham  (Mass.)  Union  Hospital  School 
of  Nursing.  Her  husband  is  affiliated  with 
Burns  and  Roe,  Inc.,  Oradell,  N.J.  and  is  a 
member  of  the  Professional  Engineering 
Association. . . .  GARY  S.  HILLS  to  Miss  Ria  J. 
Wijsbeek  on  June  1 ,  1974  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
Hills  is  an  artist.  The  groom  is  attending  grad- 
uate school  at  the  University  of  California  in 
Berkeley. .  . .  ALAN  C.  JUDD  to  Miss  Linda  M. 
Menard  on  June  8  in  Pemberton,  New  Jersey. 
Mrs.  Judd  attended  Worcester  State  College. 
The  bridegroom  works  at  General  Electric 
Co. 

Married:  CHESTER  KOTOWSKI  and  Miss 
Donna  L.  Conti  on  June  8,  1974  in  Dudley, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  is  a  registered 
nurse.  The  groom  is  with  duPont  deNemours 
Co.,  Kinston,  N.C.  .  .  .  DENNIS  M.  LIBERIS  to 
Miss  Barbara  A.  Bisceglia  on  January  19, 
1974  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Liberis  is  employed 
by  Wachusett  Molding  Co.,  West  Boylston. 
Her  husband  is  with  Astra  Pharmaceutical 
Products,  Inc. . . .  JOHN  R.  MARTIN  and  Miss 
April  AnnBlissofCopake,  New  Yorkon  March 
30,  1974.  He  is  with  Monsanto  Co.,  Indian 
Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  S. 
MARTOWSKA  and  Miss  Maureen  M.  Murray 
on  August  10  in  Windsor,  Connecticut.  The 
bride  attended  Annhurst  College,  Wood- 
stock, Conn.  The  groom  is  a  teaching  assist- 
ant at  the  University  of  Maryland  in  College 
Park. 

Married. TIMOTHY  F.  MURRAY  and  Miss 
Kathleen  M.  Golden  on  August  3,  1974  in 
Manchester,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Murray  is  a 
teacher.  Her  husband  is  studying  for  his  PhD 

in  chemistry  at  Princeton  University JOHN 

E.  O'CONNELL  to  Miss  Martha  S.  Harte  on 
June  29  in  Framingham,  Massachusetts.  The 
bride  attended  Framingham  State  College 
and  works  for  Oral  Surgical  Associates.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  graduate  student  at  Harvard 
University  GARY  G.  PONTBRIAND  and 

Miss  Susan  M.  Lockhart  on  June  1 5,  1 974  in 
Charlton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Pontbriand 
graduated  from  Charlton  High  School.  Her 
husband  is  a  management  engineer  with 
Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation.  .  .  .  STEPHEN 
N.  THIBODEAU  and  Miss  Linda  A.  Pearson  on 
June  1 5  in  Worcester.  The  bride,  a  registered 
nurse,  isemployed  by  Central  Massachusetts 
Rehabilitation  Center.  The  groom  is  a  con- 
sulting engineer  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital.  .  .  . 


GARY  J.  VELOZO  and  Miss  Jacqualyn  A. 
Little  on  June  9, 1 974  in  Spencer,  Massachu- 
setts. Mrs.  Velozo  attended  Anna  Maria  and 
will  continue  studying  at  the  University  of 
Delaware.  Her  husband  is  with  DuPont  Co., 
Wilmington. 

SUBHASH  BAJAJ  is  a  forge  engineer  for 
General  Electric  in  Rutland,  Vt. . . .  GARRY  P. 
BALBONI  works  as  a  construction  project 
management  supervisor  at  the  Perini  Corp., 
Framingham,      Mass.  DAVIS 

BALESTRACCI,  Jr.,  is  with  the  department  of 
chemical  engineering  at  the  University  of  Min- 
nesota in  Minneapolis.  .  .  .  KENNETH  E. 
BARNES  is  an  associate  staff  member  at 
Johns  Hopkins  University  (applied  physics 
lab.)  in  Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  .  .  ALBERT  E. 
BARRETT,  Jr.  has  been  employed  by  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  Co. .electronics  department, 
East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  ROBERT  L.  BARRY 
works  at  IBM  Corp.,  East  Fishkill,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
BRUCE  R.  BEAUPRE  is  with  BASF  Wyandotte 
Corporation,  Wyandotte,  Mich. 

MICHEL  R.  BENOIT  works  as  a  process 
engineer  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  Groton,  Conn.  .  . 
CLAYTON  E.  BOYCE  is  an  assistant  office 
engineer  at  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.,  Houston, 
Texas.  Presently  he  is  stationed  at  Cedar 
Bayou  Generating  Station  of  Houston  Light- 
ing and  Power  Company.  .  .  .  JAMES  M. 
BRIGGS  is  with  the  Naval  Facilities  Engineer- 
ingCommand  in  Philadelphia,  Pa. . . .  ROGER 
J.  BROEKER,  Jr.  works  for  Catalytic,  Inc., 
Philadelphia. . .  THOMAS  I.  BURNS  has  been 
selected  to  serve  as  the  62d  field  secretary  of 
the  International  Fraternity  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  for  a  two-year  period.  The  fraternity, 
which  is  represented  on  1 04  campuses  in  the 
U.S.  and  Canada,  has  a  living  membership  of 
over  71,000.  .  .  .  GARY  CARVER  has  been 
accepted  for  graduate  study  at  the  University 
of  Arizona  where  he  will  be  an  assistant  at  the 
Science  Optical  Laboratory. 

DAVID  A.  CASTELLI  works  for  Xerox  Cor- 
poration, Webster,  N.Y. . . .  CHUAN  J.  CHEN  is 
a  graduate  student  studying  under  the 
Macromolecular  Science  Program  at  the 
Institute  of  Science  and  Technology  at  the 

University  of  Michigan  in  Ann  Arbor JOHN 

D.  CHIPMAN  is  employed  by  GTE  Sylvania  in 
Needham,  Mass.  as  an  electronic 
instrumentation  engineer.  .  .  .  DAVID  J. 
COURTEMANCE  works  for  United  Engi- 
neers and  Constructors,  Boston. . . .  GENE  E. 
DeJACKOME  is  with  Monsanto  Co.,  Indian 
Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  P.  DEMERS  has 
been  employed  by  Firepro,  Inc.,  Wellesley 
Hills,  Mass.  ...JOSEPH  T.  FORANDisagrad- 
uate  student  in  the  chemistry  department  at 
Yale  University,  New  Haven,  Conn.  .  .  . 
THOMAS  L.  GARABEDIAN  has  joined  the 
Babcock  &  Wilcox  Company's  power  genera- 
tion group  and  is  in  the  initial  phase  of  a  com- 
pany-wide orientation  program.  He  will  be 
assigned  to  the  fossil  power  generation 
division.  Babcock  &  Wilcox  is  an  international 
supplierof  energy  systems,  engineered  mate- 
rials, and  industrial  automation  systems  for 
utility,  industrial,  commercial,  marine  and 
government  applications. 

DAVID  A.  GERTH  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Tuck  Business  School,  Dartmouth  College, 
Hanover,  N.H.  .  .  .  H.  EDWARD  GOETSCH 
works  for  the  propulsion  control  systems 
group  at  Hamilton  Standard  Co.,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn  . . .  GARY  GOLNIK  is  at  the  Insti- 
tute of  Optics,  University  of  Rochester  (N.Y.) 


. . .  IRENE  B.  JORDAN  has  been  employed  at 
the  Badger  Co.,  a  Raytheon  Co.  subsidiary,  in 
Cambridge,  Mass. . . .  DAVID  S.  KORZEC  has 
accepted  a  field  engineering  position  with 
General  Electric's  Installation  &  Service  Engi- 
neering Operations,  Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  is 
a  member  of  the  American  Society  of 
Mechanical  Engineers.  .  .  .  SCOTT  A. 
LePAGE  is  with  General  Electric,  mechanical 
drive  turbine  department,  Fitchburg,  Mass. . . . 
RICHARD  P.  LUDORF  works  with  the  electric 
power  engineering  department  at  RPI,  Troy, 
N.Y.  .  .  .  Automation  Industries,  Danbury, 
Conn.,  has  employed  DONN  M.  MATTESON. 
. . .  HAROLD  L.  M AXSON  has  accepted  a  posi- 
tion  with  Charmin  Paper  Company, 
Mehoopany,  Pa. 

HUGH  A.  McADAM  III  is  employed  by  the 
International  Paper  Box  Machine  Company  in 
Nashua,  N.H.  .  .  .  JOHN  MICHOPOULOS 

works  for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston,  Mass 

WILLIAM  H.  MURWIN  is  with  the  computer 
division  of  the  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance 
Company  of  America  in  Worcester.  .  . .  RUS- 
SELL B.  NABER  serves  as  a  chemical  engi- 
neer in  the  food  products  research 
department  at  Procter  &  Gamble  Co.,  Cincin- 
nati, Ohio. .  . .  CHARLES  R.  NICKERSON  has 
a  graduate  assistantship  in  research.  He  is 
working  at  the  Woods  Hole  Oceanographic 
Institution  and  also  has  a  grant  funded  by  the 
Office  of  Naval  Research  at  WPI. . . .  MARK  E. 
OSTERGREN  has  been  assigned  to  the  fossil 
power  generation  division  at  Babcock  &  Wil- 
cox, Barberton,  Ohio. . . .  THOMAS  J.  SOCHA 
recently  accepted  a  position  in  industrial 
engineering  with  Mercury  Wire  Products  in 
Worcester. . . .  DAVID  STEINER  has  joined  W. 
R.  Grace  &  Co.,  an  engineering  firm  in  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.  .  .  .  DAVID  R.  WASHBURN 
works  for  the  United  States  Naval  Civil  Engi- 
neering Division  in  Philadelphia MICHAEL 

GRAHAM  is  an  assistant  in  the  Industrial 
Relations  Department  at  Albany  Inter- 
national, Albany,  N.Y. . . .  ANTHONY  TRIPOLI 
works  for  General  Electric  in  Waterford,  N.Y. 


38     October!  974     WPI  Journal 


HENRY  C.  WALTER,  'OO.of  Fort  Myers,  Flor- 
ida, a  former  instructor  of  electrical  engineer- 
ing at  WPI,  died  on  June  4, 1 974  at  the  age  of 
97. 

He  was  born  on  October  27, 1 876  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI,  he  went  with  General 
Electric  in  Schenectady  and  then  taught  at 
North  Carolina  State  A  &  M  College  and 
Purdue  University.  As  an  instructor  at  WPI 
from  1904  to  1906,  he  designed  the  test 
equipment  in  the  EE  laboratory.  Later  he 
worked  for  Westinghouse  Electric  Co.,  Allis 
Chalmers  Mfg.  Co.,  Fairbanks  Morse,  and 
Calco  Chemical  Co.  In  1946  he  retired  as  a 
design  engineer  from  Crocker-Wheeler  Co. 

Mr.  Walter,  who  took  up  sailing  at  the  age  of 
77,  had  sailed  his  30-foot  sloop  to  Cuba.  He 
was  a  world  traveler  and  made  a  camping  trip 
'  through  Europe  when  he  was  93.  A  year  later 
he  visited  London.  He  made  his  first  trip  to 
Europe  in  1895. 

He  was  a  life  member  of  AIEE  and  the  father 
of  James  S.  Walter,  '40.  He  was  considered  to 
be  the  oldest  living  member  of  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  Fraternity. 

JOSEPH  W.  ROGERS,  '01,  died  in  West 
Brookfield,  Massachusetts  on  June  10,  1974 
at  the  age  of  98. 

A  native  of  Hyde  Park,  Mass.,  he  studied  at 
WPI  and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer 
in  1 901 .  After  spending  a  year  in  the  General 
Electric  test  department  in  Lynn,  Mass.,  he 
joined  the  Pennsylvania  Railroad  where  he 
retired  as  an  assistant  power  director  in  1938. 

He  was  a  life-member  of  the  Barre  (Mass.) 
1   Historical  Society. 

WALLACE  L.  FLAGG,  '08,  of  Oroville,  Califor- 
nia died  on  February  9, 1 974. 

He  was  born  on  October  1 , 1 886  at  Littleton, 
Mass.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  became  asso- 
ciated with  Cambia  Steel  Co.,  the  Chicago  & 
Northwestern  R.R.,  W.H.  Schott  Co., 
Chicago,  and  the  Cadillac  Motor  Car  Co., 
Detroit.  In  later  years  he  was  self-employed. 

He  belonged  to  Delta  Tau,  now  Sigma  Phi 
Epsilon  fraternity. 


MOSES  H.  TEAZE,  '17,  philanthropist  and  a 
retired  partner  in  the  consulting  engineering 
firm  of  H.  S.  Ferguson  &  Co.,  died  in  Norwalk, 
Connecticut  on  June  23, 1974. 

He  was  born  on  January  26,  1889  in 
Middletown,  Rhode  Island  and  graduated 
with  a  civil  engineering  degree  from  WPI  in 
1917.  During  his  lifetime  he  was  associated 
with  Westinghouse,  Stone  &  Webster  Engi- 
neering Corp.,  and  Great  Northern  Paper  Co. 
In  1948  he  retired  as  a  partner  in  H.  S. 
Ferguson  &  Co.  (New  York  City),  after  30 
years  of  service. 

Mr.  Teaze,  who  belonged  to  ATO,  Skull, 
Tau  Beta  Pi  and  Sigma  Xi,  was  a  life  member 
of  ASME,  ASCE,  American  Ordnance  Asso- 
ciation, American  Association  for  the 
Advancement  of  Science  and  the  Engineer- 
ing Institute  of  Canada. 

He  also  served  as  past  president  of  the 
Mountainside  Hospital,  Montclair,  N.J.,  vice 
president  of  the  New  Jersey  Hospital  Associa- 
tion, and  past  president  of  the  Westport- 
Weston  (Conn.)  Chapter  of  the  American  Red 
Cross.  He  was  a  founder  of  the  Mid-Fairfield 
County  Youth  Museum  and  a  lifelong  member 
of  the  Weston  Historical  Association. 

WENDELL  B.  BATTEN,  '22,  passed  away  in 
Pittsburgh,  Pennsylvania  on  June  30,  1974. 
He  was  75. 

A  retired  electrical  engineer  for  the  West- 
inghouse Corp.  in  East  Pittsburgh,  he  was 
born  on  April  25,  1899  in  Hardwick,  Vt.  He 
joined  Westinghouse  in  1 922  and  was  section 
manager  of  the  high  power  section  in  the 
engineering  laboratories. 

Mr.  Batten  belonged  to  AIEE,  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

HOWARD  P.  PUTNAM,  '23,  of  Woodstown, 
New  Jersey,  died  of  a  stroke  on  July  20, 1974. 

He  was  born  on  June  21 , 1 900  in  Worcester. 
In  1923  he  graduated  as  a  mechnical  engi- 
neer from  WPI.  Following  graduation  he 
joined  Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  as  a 
cadet  engineer  for  a  year.  From  1924  until 
1 943  he  was  a  field  engineer  for  the  Bell  Tele- 
phone Co.  of  Pennsylvania.  Later  he  became 
a  partner  in  the  Cottage  Tea  House  in  Bryn 
Mawr,  Pa. 

Mr.  Putnam  belonged  to  the  Main  Line 
Chamber  of  Commerce,  Rotary  International, 
the  Philadelphia  Restaurant  Association,  Phi 
Gamma  Delta  and  Skull. 


FREDERIC  V.  HASKELL,  '26,  passed  away  on 
August  4, 1 974  in  Gladstone,  New  Jersey.  He 
was  71. 

Born  in  Worcester  on  June  1 ,  1903,  he  later 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI.  After  working  for  New  York  Edison  Co., 
he  joined  Bell  Labs  in  1 929  and  for  25  years 
worked  on  the  development  of  aerial  cables 
and  open  wire  systems.  He  was  the  holder  of 
three  patents  on  outside  plant  methods  and 
tools.  Before  retiring  in  1 968  with  38  years  of 
service,  he  developed  improved  methods  of 
installing  telephone  equipment  between  the 
central  office  and  the  subscriber. 

Mr.  Haskell  was  a  senior  member  of  the 
Institute  of  Electrical  and  Electronics  Engi- 
neers and  a  former  member  of  the  planning 
board  in  Gladstone,  N.J.  He  belonged  to 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon. 

GEORGE  H.  FINLAY,  '28,  of  Towson,  Mary- 
land, died  suddenly  on  August  1 3, 1 974. 

Born  in  Clinton,  Mass.  on  December  30, 
1906,  he  later  studied  mechanical  engineer- 
ing at  WPI  and  graduated  in  1 928.  From  1 928 
until  1946  he  worked  his  way  up  from  an 
inspectorto  executive  assistant  at  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
Later  he  was  a  general  adjuster  with  Alexan- 
der &  Alexander,  Inc.,  Baltimore,  Md. 

He  was  a  member  of  Theta  Chi,  the  Mary- 
land and  national  Society  of  Professional 
Engineers  and  the  Baltimore  Insurance 
Adjusters  Association.  A  past  president  of  the 
Philadelphia  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Associa- 
tion, he  was  also  the  father  of  William  F. 
Finlay,  '54. 

ELMER  L.  TAYLOR,  '28,  a  former  supervisory 
engineer  and  world-wide  consultant  for 
Norton  Co.,  died  in  Clinton,  Massachusetts  on 
July  1. 

He  was  born  on  June  9,  1907  in  Peacham, 
Vt.  In  1928  he  received  his  BSEE  from  WPI 
and  joined  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  In  1 931  he 
became  foreman  for  Norton  Grinding  Wheel 
Co.,  Ltd.,  in  England.  Later  he  was  a  labora- 
tory chief  for  Norton  in  France  and  then  a 
supervisor  and  a  consultant  in  West 
Germany. 

Mr.  Taylor  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi  and 
Sigma  Xi.  A  former  selectman  in  Lancaster, 
Mass.,  he  was  a  member  of  the  town's  finance 
committee. 

GORDON  B.  GEORGE,  '32,  of  Shrewsbury, 
Massachusetts,  passed  away  on  July  15, 
1974. 

Born  on  February  18,  1908  at  Westboro, 
Mass.,  he  was  later  a  student  at  WPI.  For  sev- 
eral years  he  was  a  supervisor  at  Lyman 
School  for  Boys  in  Westboro.  At  one  time  he 
was  head  of  the  science  department  at 
Saugus  (Mass.)  High  School.  He  belonged  to 
Theta  Chi  Fraternity. 


WPI  Journal  /  October  1974  I  39 


JOHN  W.  GREENE,  '32,  executive  secretary 
of  the  Central  Massachusetts  Chapter  of  the 
National  Safety  Council,  died  May  31 , 1 974  in 
Holden,  Massachusetts  at  the  age  of  63. 

He  was  a  special  adviser  on  highway  safety 
to  former  governor,  John  A.  Volpe.  A 
mathematics  teacher,  he  was  also  a  physicist, 
a  producer  of  educational  films  and  a  musi- 
cian. He  was  a  professional  organist  and  had 
owned  and  developed  Worcester's  first 
piped-in  music  system.  He  had  also  helped 
operate  the  former  Red  Barn  Theater  and 
Lounge  in  Westboro. 

Mr.  Greene,  a  general  science  graduate 
from  WPI,  was  appointed  manager  of  the 
Worcester  Safety  Council  in  1948.  He  also 
served  as  secretary  and  member  of  the  city 
manager's  committee  on  traffic  safety.  A 
native  of  West  Boylston,  Mass.,  he  was  a  past 
public  relations  director  of  the  Worcester 
Area  Chamber  of  Commerce,  an  instructor  at 
Classical  and  South  high  schools  and 
Worcester  Junior  College.  From  1943  until 
1946  he  was  a  physicist  in  magnetic  mine 
warfare  at  Philadelphia  Navy  Yard. 

He  belonged  to  the  American  Society  of 
Safety  Engineers,  the  Worcester  Musicians' 
Association,  and  served  as  assistant  director 
of  the  Worcester  Natural  History  Museum  and 
as  director  of  the  Worcester  Evening  Adult 
School. 

GORDON  E.  BARNES,  '33,  of  Reading,  Mas- 
sachusetts, died  suddenly  at  work  on  January 
10,  1974.  He  was  64. 

He  was  a  native  of  Hardwick,  Mass.  and  an 
electrical  engineering  graduate  from  WPI. 
During  his  career  he  was  with  San-Nap-Pack 
Mfg.,  Co.,  Eastern  Oil  Co.,  American  Steel  & 
Wire  Co.,  Eastern  Gas  &  Fuel  Associates  of 
Everett,  Mass.  and  the  Boston  Gas  Co.  He  was 
a  registered  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts  and  a  member  of  Theta  Chi 
Fraternity. 


Wi*=4 


GEORGE  V.  UIHLEIN,  Jr.,  '45,  dean  of  men  at 
Loyola  College,  Montreal,  Canada,  died  on 
June  23, 1 974.  He  was  49. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  as  a  chemist  in 
1 945,  he  served  as  a  chemical  engineer  in  the 
Naval  Ordnance  Laboratories,  Washington, 
D.C.  From  1 945  to  1 947  he  was  an  instructor 
atWPI.  Laterbe  became  executive  director  of 
Phi  Kappa  Theta  Fraternity,  an  account  exec- 
utive with  Hanrahan  and  Co.,  and  vice  presi- 
dent of  Bay  State  Savings  Bank,  Worcester. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  2,  1924  in  Mountain 
View,  N.J.  In  1947  he  received  his  MS  from 
WPI.  While  an  executive  with  Phi  Kappa 
Theta,  he  established  its  headquarters  in 
Worcester.  In  May  he  was  awarded  the  distin- 
guished service  award  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta 
Fraternity. 

Mr.  Uihlein  was  elected  national  president 
of  the  College  Fraternity  Secretaries  Associa- 
tion and  president  of  Phi  Kappa  Theta's  Inter- 
national Education  Foundation.  He  belonged 
to  the  American  Chemical  Society,  Sigma  Xi, 
Tau  Beta  Pi,  Pi  Delta  Epsilon,  and  the  Cana- 
dian Association  for  Student  Affairs. 

WILLIAM  F.  HEINZ,  '66,  was  killed  on  June 
14,  1974  in  Penacook,  New  Hampshire  when 
hismotorcycleskiddedintoatree.Hewas39. 

He  was  born  on  May  21 , 1 935  in  New  Haven, 
Conn,  and  graduated  from  WPI  with  a  mas- 
ter's degree  in  1966.  A  physics  teacher  at 
Concord  (N.H.)  High  School,  he  had  also 
received  a  degree  from  Plymouth  State 
College. 

Mr.  Heinz,  who  was  a  member  of  the  State 
Golfers  Association,  was  a  city  golf 
champion.  He  belonged  to  the  National  Physi- 
cist Association,  the  Concord  Teachers 
Association,  the  Athletics  Association  and 
taught  driver  education. 


40     October  1974     WPI  Journal 


The  trick  is  to  find  a  high-quality  quad  receiver 
at  a  low  price. 

We  think  we  have  that  receiver.  In  fact,  we  think 
we  have  four  of  them,  each  one  an  outstanding  buy 
within  its  price  category.  They're  all  listed  below 
with  their  prices  and  most  important  specs.  All  you 
have  to  do  is  decide  which  one  is  best  for  you. 

$329.95*  4x7.5  watts  continuous  (RMS)  power  into 
8  ohms  from  30Hz  to  20kHz  at  less  than  1  %  total 
harmonic  distortion.  2x15  watts  continuous  (RMS) 
power  in  special  stereo  bridge  mode.  IM  distortion  at 
rated  continuous  output  is  less  than  1  % .  Frequency 
response  is  20Hz-20kHz  at  tape  input  ±  1.5  db.  An 
exceptional  FM  sensitivity  of  2.3  ;xv.  Plus  many 
features.  Model  RQ  3745. 

$379.95*  4x15  watts  continuous  (RMS)  power  into 
8  ohms  from  20  Hz  to  20kHz  at  less  than  1  %  total 
harmonic  distortion.  2  x  30  watts  continuous  (RMS) 
power  in  special  stereo  bridge  mode.  IM  distortion  at 
rated  continuous  output  is  less  than  1  % .  Frequency  re- 
sponse is  20Hz-20kHz  at  tape  input  ±  1 .5db.  FM  sen- 
sitivity of  2.3  a*v.  Plus  many  features.  Model  RQ  3746. 


$499.95*  4  x  25  watts  continuous  (RMS)  power  into 
8  ohms  from  20Hz  to  20kHz  at  less  than  0.5%  total 
harmonic  distortion.  2  x  60  watts  continuous  (RMS) 
power  in  special  stereo  bridge  mode.  IM  distortion  at 
rated  continuous  output  is  less  than  0.5  % .  Frequency 
response  is  20Hz  to  30kHz  at  tape  input  ±  1.5db. 
FM  sensitivity  is  an  exceptional  1.9  p-v.  Full  function 
jack  panel.  Walnut  veneer  cabinet.  Plus  many  other 
features.  Model  RQ  3747. 

$599.95*  4  x  50  watts  continuous  (RMS)  power  into 
8  ohms  from  20Hz  to  20kHz  at  less  than  0.5%  total 
harmonic  distortion.  2  x  125  watts  continuous  (RMS) 
power  in  special  stereo  bridge  mode.  IM  distortion  at 
rated  continuous  output  is  less  than  0.5  % .  Frequency 
response  is  20Hz  to  30kHz  at  tape  input  ±  1.5db. 
Outstanding  FM  sensitivity  of  1.9 Vv.  Full  function 
jack  panel.  Walnut  veneer  cabinet.  Plus  many  other 
features.  Model  RQ  3748. 

If  you  like  what  you  see  and  what  you  read,  go  to 
your  Sylvania  dealer.  When  you're  there,  you'll  like 
what  you  hear. 

♦Manufacturer's  suggested  retail  price. 


f^iT3  SyLVANIA 


DECEMBER  1974 


Forging  for  the 
new  generation  of 
turbine  engines 


Wyman  Gordon's  mechanical/metallurgical  skills 
have  allowed  designers  and  fabricators  to  stretch 
the  level  of  turbine  technology— on  land,  on  the  sea 
and  in  the  air. 

Wyman  Gordon  will  be  producing  the  super- 
strength  and  supersize  forgings  needed  as  land- 
based  gas  turbines  take  the  next  giant  step  into 
their  "new  generation." 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


WORCESTER,  MASSACHUSETTS 


UIPpQMTffl 


Vol.78,  No.  4 


December  1974 


2     On  the  hill 

The  Pub  gets  a  home  at  last 

4     When  WPI  plays  Bowdoin,  it's  a  family  affair 

One  Saturday  afternoon  of  small-college  football  in  New  England,  as 
viewed  by  Jack  Tubert  of  the  Worcester  Telegram 

6     Five  years  later 

President  George  Hazzard  examines.  WPI  in  mid-Plan  and  con- 
cludes that  while  the  Institute  has  come  a  long  way  in  a  short  time, 
there  are  still  many  things  left  to  do 

14     Coombsie 

Charles  Keyser,  '39,  reminisces  about  one  of  WPI's  more  colorful 
faculty  members  of  times  gone  by 

16     Up  in  the  air,  Junior  Birdmen 

Bob  Goodness,  '70,  likes  to  fly,  but  not  in  airplanes 

20     You  went  to  an  engineering  school,  so  you're  an  engineer,  right? 
Wrong. 

Rugh  Trask  profiles  five  alumni  who  ultimately  chose  not  to  go  into 
engineering  careers 

23     Your  class  and  others 

25     What  you  need  is  a  left-handed  skyhook 

An  alumnus  makes  those  old  jokes  come  true 

31     Completed  careers 


The  cover:  Hang-gliding  off  the  Cape  Cod  dunes;  photograph  by  John 
F.  Wellsman 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51 ,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '56;  Rob- 
ert C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22; 
Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I. 
Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography:  Typesetting  Service,  Provi- 
dence, Rhode  Island 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  edi- 
torial content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609 
(phone  61 7-753-1 411). 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Copyright  <e>  1 974  by  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  December, 
February,  and  April.  Second  Class  postage 
paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Posf- 
master:  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alumni 
Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  W.  A. 
Julian,  '49 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B. 
E.  Hosmer,  '61 ;  D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M. 
McNamara,  '55;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.  H.  White,  '41 ;  G.  A.  Anderson,  '51 ;  H.  I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974/1 


•.  »  2ft  / 


»•»•** 


*  hi 


j  ~1 


;.^fc 


• 


■i 


by  the  editor 

The  Pub 

gets  a  home  at  last 

The  Goat's  Head  Pub,  wall  to  wall  with 
first-nighters,  opened  officially  on 
August  3 1  st.  Hundreds  of  invited  guests 
poured  into  Sanford  Riley  for  the  grand 
opening.  Most  were  unprepared  for  what 
they  found:  barn  board  walls,  "brick" 
flooring,  brass  chandeliers,  long  wooden 
booths,  and  captain's  chairs.  Some  were 
unprepared  for  the  decor,  which 
included  a  solemn,  gilded  cherub  in  a 
cocked  hat  presiding  over  the  back  bar. 
"What,  no  nude?"  cracked  one  guest. 
"No  goat's  head  either,"  quipped 
another. 

"No  matter,"  said  a  woman  student. 
"The  place  is  clean  and  it's  got  atmo- 
sphere. Count  your  blessings." 

"There's  even  live  entertainment  in 
the  Coffee  House,"  she  remarked.  "It 
looks  like  they've  finally  got  this  place 
together." 

It  wasn't  easy  getting  the  Pub 
together,  but  this  summer  it  happened. 
Chartered  in  1 968,  the  Pub,  in  various 
stages  of  repair  and  disrepair,  had  been 
>    shuttled  between  the  lower  levels  of 
Sanford  Riley  like  a  forgotten  stepchild. 
The  founders,  Joel  S.  Schoenholtz  and 
James  A.  Raslavsky,  both  '68,  and  the 
incorporators,  Dean  William  Grogan, 
'46,  Prof.  Richard  Olson, '54,  Dean  Wil- 
liam Trask,  Prof.  John  Boyd,  Prof. 
Thaddeus  Roddenbery,  Dean  Roy 
Seaberg,  '56,  and  Dean  Bernard  Brown, 
looked  forward  to  the  day  when  the  Pub 
would  have  a  permanent  home  and  an 
adequate  budget.  They  envisioned  it  as  a 
prime  after-hours  meeting  spot  for 
everyone  on  campus  —  a  place  for  stu- 
dents to  get  to  know  one  another,  as  well 
•   as  faculty  members,  staff,  and  alumni,  all 
in  a  friendly,  informal  atmosphere.  They 


also  hoped  that  parents  would  feel  free  to 
utilize  the  area  as  a  kind  of  welcome 
room. 

Back  in  '67  the  Pub  started  out  as  a 
modest  rathskeller  in  a  dark,  cramped 
room  in  the  basement  of  Sanford  Riley. 
It  was  open  two  days  a  week  for  students 
21  and  over,  as  well  as  for  faculty 
members.  This  year  the  WPI  adminis- 
tration gave  permission  to  move  the  Pub 
up  one  floor  into  the  larger  area  which 
had  been  the  kitchen  and  dining  hall  that 
originally  served  the  entire  campus. 

When  the  legal  drinking  age  dropped 
to  18,  the  whole  operation  got  out  of 
hand. 

"We  had  to  expand  and  remodel,"  says 
Jon  Wyman,  '75,  who  coordinated  the 
construction  job  this  summer.  "We  were 
bursting  at  the  seams." 

Besides,  the  atmosphere  was  anything 
but  inviting.  Broken  green  plaster  cov- 
ered the  dingy  white  floor  of  the  former 
30'  x  60'  kitchen-snack  bar. 

"Transforming  this  particular  room 
was  our  most  difficult  job,"  says  Prof. 
"Ollie"  Olson,  who  is  a  board  member  of 
the  pub  and  works  with  the  management. 
"We  got  ideas  from  the  Class  of  1974's 
concerned  Committee  of  13.  Together 
we  drew  up  several  sets  of  plans  and 
decided  to  use  the  least  expensive  one," 
he  continues. 

In  the  end  the  renovations  cost  about 
$  1 5,000,  with  $7,000  coming  from  stu- 
dent funds  and  the  rest  provided  by  the 
college  administration. 

Now  the  main  pub  room  sports  a  rich- 
looking  wood-grain  bar,  red  "brick" 
floor,  a  color  TV,  coordinated  furniture 
obtained  through  the  cooperation  of 
Julius  Palley,  '46,  and  brass  chandeliers 
salvaged  from  the  old  faculty  dining 
room.  For  security  reasons  all  the  win- 
dows were  barred. 

"The  students  did  over  90  percent  of 
the  work  themselves,"  says  Craig 
Lazenby,  '71  who  did  much  of  the 
finishing  and  directed  the  installation 
of  the  paneling  and  built-in  booths.  "The 
only  professional  help  was  with  the  bar 
top,  flooring,  and  electrical  wiring. 
Some  of  the  secretaries  pitched  in  with 
the  painting  and  the  cleaning." 


Local  liquor  distributors  assisted  with 
the  decor  by  contributing  colorful  signs, 
lights,  and  wall  hangings. 

The  Coffee  House,  which  adjoins  the 
Goat's  Head  Pub,  also  underwent  a 
transformation,  at  least  a  modest  one. 
Solid,  old  partitions  were  torn  down.  ("A 
mean  job,"  says  Jon  Wyman.  "They 
were  heavily  braced  and  nailed  to  the 
floor.")  Now  the  whole  40'  x  80'  area  is 
wide  open. 

"Paul  O'Brien,  '75  and  John  Scott,  '76 
are  responsible  for  patching  and 
refinishing  the  wood  floor,"  Prof.  Olson 
says.  "I  don't  think  that  it  ever  looked 
better  than  it  does  now." 

On  one  side  of  the  Coffee  House  is  a 
stage  for  live  entertainment  which  is  fea- 
tured at  least  one  day  a  week.  Also  fea- 
tured are  movie  classics,  all  the  way  from 
W.  C.  Fields  to  Humphrey  Bogart. 

"We're  really  in  business  now,"  grins 
Prof.  Olson,  who  has  plenty  to  grin  about 
these  days.  "We're  doing  three  times  the 
business  we  did  last  year  at  this  time.  In 
September  alone  we  grossed  $10,000." 

And  the  students?  Many  of  the  20  or  so 
who  voluntered  their  services  during  the 
renovations  are  now  working  part-time 
at  the  pub  as  managers,  bartenders  and 
barmaids.  (Some  earned  academic  credit 
for  supervision,  too.)  And  the  rest  of  the 
student  body,  faculty,  and  increasing 
numbers  of  alumni  and  parents  are  find- 
ing the  Goat's  Head  Pub  the  most  con- 
venient and  entertaining  place  to  meet  on 
campus. 

Bill  Delphos,  '74,  summed  it  all  up  as 
he  breezed  in  from  the  Cape  on  opening 
night. 

"I  wouldn't  have  missed  this  for  any- 
thing," he  said. 

Covers 

Through  a  printing  error,  the  cover 
for  the  October  Journal  went  unex- 
plained and  uncredited.  It  was  a 
drawing  of  turbulent  water,  done  by 
Leonardo  da  Vinci  around  1 507. 
The  cover  was  intended  to  sym- 
bolize on  the  one  hand  the  con- 
troversy swirling  around  the 
nuclear  power  question,  and  on  the 
other  the  actual  water  used  in  reac- 
tor cooling. 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1974/3 


When  WPI  plays  Bowdoin, 
it's  a  family  affair 


By  Jack  Tubert 


ADIXKY  BOX  of  explosive  caps  from 
a  toy  cowboy  gun.  Pow  Pow!  Pow! 
Stretched  out  like  bumpy,  red  postage 
stamps  on  the  curbstone.  Two  small  boys 
smashing  the  caps  against  the  granite  with  a 
rock  —  powpowpow. 

That  was  the  thunder  of  Bowdoin  Col- 
lege's football  victory  over  Worcester  Tech 
at  Alumni  Field. 

Nothing  big  time 

No  roll  of  drums. 

New  England  small  college  football  is  a 
family  affair. 

Fun  in  the  sun  on  the  rolling  greens- 
ward in  the  tree-shaded  valley  where  Route 
12  (Park  Avenue)  runs  between  Bancroft 
Tower  and  the  campus  on  Boynton  Hill. 
The  bridal-white  steeple  atop  First  Baptist 
Church,  seeming  to  split  the  north  goalpost 
in  its  climb  to  the  skies,  adding  a  country 
feeling  to  the  city  setting. 

Bob  Aubrey's  field  goal  attempt  failed  to 
split  the  south  goalpost  in  the  final  30  sec- 
onds tor  a  Tech  victory.  Bowdoin  tri- 
umphed, 17-15. 

It  was  hard  to  tell  the  winners  from  the 
losers  as  the  field  quickly  emptied.  (Bow- 
doin's  garb  was  bad  guy  black,  and  the  local 
Hrminccrs  wore  good  guy  white.)  But, 
evervone  was  smiling.  Shaking  hands. 

1  nlike  the  crowds  who  leave  concrete 
bowls  where  big-time  college  football  is 
played  to  seek  fun  at  sophisticated  cocktail 
lounges,  tans  filing  out  oi  the  wooden  stands 
at  Tech  Field  seemed  content  to  he  heading 
home. 


After  the  ball,  where  do  you  go? 

"We're  going  direcdy  home,"  said  John 
Clemens,  who  faced  a  long  drive  to  Read- 
ing. "My  son  Paul  is  a  linebacker  with  Bow- 
doin," said  the  white-haired  Clemens,  en 
route  to  get  the  family  car  when  he  stopped 
to  watch  Aubrey's  decisive  boot. 

"Like  everyone  else,  we're  going  home  to 
talk  over  the  game,"  said  Pat  Scavone,  son 
of  a  fabled  athlete  of  another  era,  Worcester 
contractor  Jimmy  Scavone,  and  brother  to 
Tech's  Timmy  Scavone. 

Pat  leaned  down  to  ask  his  own  little  boy, 
Patrick  Scavone  Jr.,  "Who  won  the  game?" 
The  answer:  "Timmy." 

"Naw,  we  didn't  win,"  said  Papa  Pat, 
"but  it  was  a  good  game,  and  that  field  goal 
was  a  good  call." 


No  Pressure 

Surrounded  by  his  offspring  in  leaving  the 
field,  Jimmy  Scavone  said  it  had  been  a 
great  afternoon  of  good  football.  A  nice, 
relaxing  switch  from  directing  his  giant 
earthmoving  equipment  daily  in  carving 
Route  52  out  of  the  woods  and  rocks  of 
Oxford. 

"There's  no  pressure  in  this  league,"  said 
Pat  Scavone,  a  former  UMass  athlete. 
"These  kids  play  football  because  they  like 
to  play." 

"We're  going  to  get  pizzas,"  popped 
Edwin  (Ted)  Coghlin  Jr.,  Tech  '56,  as  was 
his  dad,  Tech  '23  and  his  grandfather,  Tech 
'93.  Kids,  dogs,  neighbors.  ( ioing  to  get 
pizza  pics  and  then  home  to  talk  about  the 
game. 


Bruce  Maillet,  Coghlin's  Shrewsbury 
neighbor,  is  scout  master  for  Cub  Scout 
Pack  258.  "We  just  climbed  Mount  Wach- 
usett  before  the  game  with  45  kids  and  12 
adults,"  Coghlin  explained;  Maillet  adding, 
"And,  those  who  made  it  back  down  the 
mountain  are  here  at  the  game." 

A  third  neighbor,  Gerry  Bedard,  walked 
with  Coghlin  and  Maillet  in  leaving  the 
gridiron  where  a  gang  of  schoolboys  now 
gamboled. 

"The  last  two  minutes  of  today's  game," 
Bedard  said  "was  the  same  as  watching  Buf- 
falo and  Oakland  (pro  teams),  as  exciting  as 
watching  them  on  television  . . .  Tech  came 
down  the  field,  trying  to  pull  it  out ...  it 
was  something."  "Super  football,"  said 
Coghlin.  "Hell  of  a  finish."  Maillet  agreed. 

On  the  Tech  campus,  high  above  the 
football  field,  people  chatted  with  friends 
before  driving  away  in  cars.  Kids  and  dogs 
chased  the  same  football.  Raindrops  started 
falling,  short-circuited  a  bit  of  post-game 
tailgating  by  some  families  who  picnic  in 
the  parking  lot  at  games. 

Putting  away  a  burner  and  other  cooking 
utensils,  Mark  Smith  of  Pleasantville,  N.Y., 
an  international  operations  officer  with  the 
First  National  Bank  of  New  York  City, 
beamed,  "After  the  game,  I  drink  beer  and 
the  others  drink  tea." 

We  either  drink  to  celebrate  or  to  drown 
our  sorrows,"  laughed  his  wife,  adding,  "It 
doesn't  make  a  whole  lot  of  difference!"  She 
was  celebrating  yesterday.  Her  husband  is 
Bowdoin  '58. 


Reprinted  from  the  Worcester 
Sunday  Telegram,  copyright  1974, 
The  Worcester  Telegram  &  Gazette. 


4  Tiber  1974     WPI  Journal 


The  Robert  Kingsbury  family  from  Bed- 
ford was  tailgating  at  the  next  car.  Mrs. 
Kingsbury  was  putting  away  the  last  "hot  ■ 
hero  sandwiches  —  meatballs,"  and  every- 
one was  still  praising  her  long-gone  cherry- 
tomato  dip  and  other  pre-game  delicacies. 
Her  husband,  too,  was  Bowdoin  '58. 


A  'Fun' Experience 

"For  16  years  we've  been  doing  this  —  going 
to  football  games  together.  Four  games  each 
season,"  Mrs.  Smith  explained,  while  the 
:  smiling  Mrs.  Kingsbury  ticked  off  the  Bow- 
doin games  they'd  see  this  year  and  explain- 
ing how  they'd  already  planned  what  games 
to  drive  to  in  1975. 

"This  is  just  wonderful,"  said  banker 
Smith,  sipping  on  a  beer.  "I  hate  the  big 
city.  We  live  35  miles  outside  New  York, 
and  Worcester  is  just  like  Pleasantville.  We 
come  here  for  the  football.  This  is  New 
England  small  college  football.  It's  more 
fun  than  anything  else." 


"Where  else  could  you  let  your  children 
run  wild?"  asked  one  of  the  women,  watch- 
ing offspring,  nephews  and  nieces  gambol 
in  the  grass. 

Tech  students  either  returned  to  dorms  to 
study,  or  visited  with  friends  and  relatives 
in  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  in  the  cellar  of  San- 
ford  Riley  Hall.  Lambrusco  and  Chablis 
wines,  beer  and  Coke  sales  were  brisk  as 
coed  and  collegians  discussed  the  game  —  or 
watched  surfboarding  on  television. 

"We'll  probably  stay  here  until  dinner 
and  go  out  to  a  Chinese  restaurant,"  said 
Anne  McPartland  of  Houlton,  Maine,  a 
Tech  student  and  cheerleader. 

"She  says  Chinese  food,  I  guess  that's  it" 
laughed  Charles  Dodd  of  Norwalk,  Conn.,  a 
'74  WPI  grad. 

"It  would  be  McDonald's,  but  we've  had 
a  lot  of  hamburg  in  the  cafeteria  lately,"  the 
cheerleader  explained. 


Suitcase  College 


"It's  a  suitcase  college,  you  know,  the  kids 
go  home  weekends,"  explained  Paul  Fred- 
erickson  of  New  Jersey,  a  Tech  junior  with 
a  pack  of  Marlboro's  rolled  into  the  sleeve 
of  his  T-shirt,  just  like  the  1950s. 

"I  design  the  T-shirts,"  said  Fred- 
erickson,  showing  the  Goat's  Head  emblem 
on  his  back.  "He  also  designed  and  built  the 
pub,"  a  classmate  added. 


Students,  alumni,  dates  and  mates  started 
a  serious  discussion  of  Tech's  setback. 
"We've  got  a  strong  defense,  but  we've  got 
to  get  away  from  those  off -tackle  plays  and 
pass  more,"  said  one  youth,  lifting  a  plastic 
cup  of  beer  up  high  to  gain  a  thousand 
cheers. 

Outside  the  powpowpow  of  explosive 
caps.  Justin  Shay,  1 1,  of  Carlisle  and  his 
brother,  Jeffrey,  8,  exploded  the  caps,  as  six- 
year-old  Jennifer  Smith,  daughter  of  the 
New  York  banker  watched  fascinated,  but 
frightened  by  the  sound  —  powpowpow. 

Jennifer  brought  a  Barbie  doll  to  the 
game.  Her  name?  "Dawn,  but  I  like  football 
better  than  dolls,"  said  the  girl  and  the  little 
boys  laughed  with  glee,  pounding  rocks 
against  the  caps  —  Pow!  Pow!  Pow! 

HUM 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1974/5 


Five 

years 

later 


by  Dr.  George  W.  Hazzard, 
president 


ft********.. 


I 


f 


w    * 


ThlS  FIVE  YEAR  REPORT  is 
self-imposed.  No  one  asked  for  it. 
Perhaps  no  one  wishes  to  hear  it.  But  only 
in  a  self-conscious  look  at  our  own 
immediate  history  can  we  get  possible 
glimpses  of  the  future.  And  only  by  a  his- 
torical look  can  we  see  the  enormity  of 
the  effort  occurring  at  WPI. 

Many  years  ago  I  was  struck  by  a 
description  of  quantum  mechanics  and 
its  pivotal  role  in  understanding  the 
physical  world.  In  effect,  that  description 
said  that  ordinary  classical  mechanics 
described  a  man's  life  in  terms  of  dates, 
houses  lived  in,  actions  taken,  people 
known  —  ordinary  history,  one  might 
say.  Quantum  mechanics  described  that 
same  life  in  terms  of  motivations,  inter- 
active situations,  thoughts,  internal  per- 
sonal forces  —  psychological  history^ 
perhaps. 

So  I  have  written  two  reports:  the  clas- 
sical one  and  the  quantum  mechanical 
one.  The  classical  one  is  publishable  and 
for  the  history  books,  so  to  speak.  But  the 
other  one,  the  real  WPI,  is  so  evanescent, 
so  prone  to  disappear  just  as  you  grasp  it, 
that  I  can  only  try  to  give  you  glimpses  of 
our  internal  reality. 

WPI  has  undergone  a  revolution.  It 
may  have  been  quiet  and  bloodless;  but  it 
was  not  gutless.  Nowhere  in  this  country 
has  any  educational  institution  stopped, 
looked  at  itself,  decided  to  turn  inside 
out,  and  then  done  so.  Nowhere  in  this 
country  has  such  a  thing  been  done 
without  absolutely  rending  crises,  wars, 
and  name-calling.  Nowhere  in  this  coun- 
try is  there  such  an  opportunity  for  edu- 
cational leadership  than  here. 

The  WPI  Plan  is  the  past  five  years.  It 
is  the  Planning  Committee.  It  is  the 
vehicle  for  more  student  writing  and 
talking  about  educational  process  than 
you  can  find  elsewhere.  It  is  faculty 
working  80  to  100  hours  per  week.  It  is 
administrators  doing  likewise.  It  is 
tension,  skepticism,  exhilaration,  frus- 
tration, incredible  detail,  patience,  and 
great  hope.  What  you  have  gotten  from 
all  of  us  at  WPI  in  the  past  five  years, 
money  can't  buy. 


The  WPI  Plan  is  our  future.  It  is  con- 
stant concern  for  the  learning  process, 
for  career  preparation  of  the  most  funda- 
mental and  personal  kind,  for  teachers 
and  students  as  people  who  must  grow 
together,  for  adaptation  of  technique 
without  relinquishing  basic  goals.  It  is 
sharing  ideas  with  others  while  simulta- 
neously leading  and  growing  in  the 
education  of  all  those  with  a  basically 
quantitative  turn  of  mind.  It  is  a  melding 
of  the  great  ideas  of  mankind  in  effective 
areas  of  human  thought  with  those  in  sci- 
entific areas.  It  is  technological 
humanism. 

The  WPI  Plan  is  our  present.  It  is 
tension  between  strongly  held  beliefs 
about  education,  between  roles  for  fac- 
ulty, staff,  or  administration.  It  is  man- 
agement for  efficiency  and  effectiveness 
without  mowing  down  the  fragile  flow- 
ers of  personal  growth,  learning,  and 
humaneness.  It  is  interpreting  to  and 
convincing  outsiders  of  our  quality  of 
purpose  and  of  process.  It  is  a  continuous 
and  demanding  search  for  ways  to  make 
all  this  happen.  It  is  not  easy,  nor  certain, 
nor  ever  complete.  For  it  is  a  body  of 
close  to  3000  people  with  constantly 
changing  composition  that  must  make  all 
this  happen. 

With  that  brief  quantum  mechanical 
description  of  WPI,  let  me  now  turn  to  a 
classical  mechanical  description.  Here  I 
will  try  to  indicate  forces  and  responses, 
overt  changes,  and  perhaps  some  ideas 
for  the  future.  Any  report  is  selective. 
This  one  is  too,  but  I  do  not  mean  to 
imply  lack  of  importance  of  many 
omitted  items,  people,  or  actions.  When 
one  tries  to  cover  ten  years  at  an  active 
place  like  WPI,  one  is  hard  pressed  to  be 
balanced  and  brief. 

I  chose  ten  years  because  only  by  look- 
ing back  that  far  can  one  get  a  good  sense 
about  some  major  changes  in  economic 
and  social  patterns  that  are  critical  to  the 
behavior  of  WPI .  For  example,  consider 
Figure  1 .  The  data  show  some  of  the 
pressures  on  WPI.  When  the  national 
pool  of  possible  students  rises  by  30% 
and  the  enrollment  in  Massachusetts 
public  higher  education  by  278%,  you 
know  we  have  a  market  problem.  Couple 
that  with  an  inflationary  rise  of  50%  vs.  a 


stock  market  lower  than  1 0  years  ago  and 
you  know  we  have  a  resources  problem. 
Troubled  waters  in  which  to  fish. 

Yet  in  this  same  period  WPI  has  expe- 
rienced ma j  or  growth  in  its  facilities  and 
activities,  as  is  clearly  shown  in  Figure  2. 
In  the  face  of  the  pressures  demonstrated 
in  Figure  1 ,  WPI  has  increased  its  stu- 
dents by  60%,  its  faculty  by  34%,  its 
tuition  rate  by  72%,  and  its  building  area 
by  32%.  Actually  if  one  removes  student 
housing  and  related  space,  WPI  facilities 
have  been  essentially  unchanged  since 
1968.  We  have  bucked  the  trends 
sufficiently  long  that  one  wonders,  how 
much  longer? 

How  it  has  all  turned  out  is  reasonably 
well  indicated  in  Figure  3.  What  you  see 
is  a  result  that  compares  favorably  with 
the  outside  pressures  on  WPI.  We  have  a 
net  operating  result  over  ten  years  that  is 
negative  by  only  1 .06%  of  the  total  oper- 
ating budget  for  that  period.  That  result 
depended  heavily  on  growth  in  tuition 
income.  New  ways  of  solving  that 
problem  in  the  future  challenge  every 
private  institution  in  the  country.  The 
tuition  problem  is  a  critical  one  for  WPI. 
However,  had  our  endowment  income 
grown  linearly  from  1966  to  1973,  our 
operating  result  would  have  been  very 
close  to  break  even. 

Looking  back  over  the  decade  I  con- 
clude that  the  first  half  was  one  of  facili- 
ties growth;  the  second  half  one  of 
program  growth.  Both  are  necessary  if 
WPI  is  to  maintain  its  reputation  for 
high  quality  education.  How  both  tie 
together  will  be  another  crucial  problem 
for  the  future. 


People  of  WPI 

All  these  graphs  and  numbers  are  fine  as 
general  indicators  of  trends.  What  they 
do  not  show  are  the  people  that  make  the 
numbers  and  trends  real  and  worthwhile. 

For  example,  the  WPI  Plan  would 
never  have  come  into  existence  without 
the  Planning  Committe  of  Professors 
van  Alstyne,  Boyd,  Grogan,  Heventhal, 
Moruzzi,  and  Shipman  (Weininger  and 
Roadstrum  were  original  members  too). 
All  but  one  are  still  at  WPI  and  working 
as  hard  as  ever  to  assure  our  success ...  an 
astonishing  fact,  but  no  more  so  than  the 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1974/7 


300 

Figure  1: 

280 

Pressures  on 

s 

260 

WPI 

240 

/ 

220 

/• 

^Enrollment  in  Mass- 

200 

achusetts  public 

# 

higher  education 

m  180 

CO 

/ 

(1965  =  48,580) 

0> 

<? 

o  16° 

^ 

4 

g140 

^      Consumer  price  index -y 

o  120 

/ 

^           y-v                 _^ 

<^^^- 

o 
™  100 

\. -"\ 

80 

» 

60 

Total  number 

Dow-Jones  averagel 

40 

18-22  year  olds 

(1965  =  12.310,000) 

20 

0 

3.000 


O2.000 


S^  1.500 


1.000 


500 


Figure  2: 
Growth  of  WPI 


—  Annual  operating 

expense 
——Tuition  rate 
'•—  Building  area 
•  ■■  Students 
Faculty  (     10) 


12o 
lira 

1    '     Q) 

c 
9-6 


6== 

E 

sr 

(D 

4  -o 

D 

c 

1  I 


1965   66    67    68     69    70    71     72     73    74 


1965   66    67    68     69    70     71     72     73    74 


1.000 

950 

900 

£850 

-8800 

S750 

1 700 

1 650 

^600 

550 

500 

250 

200 

150 

1 100 

%  50 

°     0 

CO        u 

"a 

§   50 

|100 
M50 
200 
250 
300 
350 
400 


Endowment  Income  j 

^   Figure  3: 


Results  at  WPI 


Net  Operating  Result     5s 


65   66%37    68     69    70     7$   72   %3  ^ 
%  f  1^ 


**«* 


fact  that  the  Plan  is  being  implemented 
by  largely  the  same  faculty  that  was  so 
conservative  and  rigid  ten  years  ago. 
Responding  to  that  fact  by  helping  these 
faculty  grow  and  change  is  another  chal- 
lenge we  face. 

Without  reciting  all  the  names,  let  me 
indicate  the  major  personnel  changes 
that  have  occurred  in  the  past  five  years: 

•  In  General  Administration  a  total  of  1 4 
replacements  or  additions. 

•  In  departmental  Administration  a  total 
of  8  replacements  or  additions. 

•  In  faculty  we  have  lost  62  and  gained 
72. 

•  And  in  Trustees  we  have  lost  1 7  and 
gained  13  regular  and  15  emeriti 
members. 

One  can  safely  say  that  at  WPI  the 
people  situation  is  as  dynamic  as  it  is  else- 
where in  the  world.  This  recital  is  really 
intended  to  emphasize  one  thing:  that  we 
have  in  place  a  competent  and  effective 
team  committed  to  WPI  and  its  future 
success. 

(Parenthetically,  and  without  any 
negative  implications  about  others,  I 
must  say  that  Dean  William  Grogan  has 
been  pivotal  in  bringing  the  under- 
graduate program  to  its  present  level  of 
success.  Without  his  tremendous  and 
complete  involvement  we  just  could  not 
have  made  it.) 


Not  less  important  to  a  President  is  the 
Chairman  of  his  Board  of  Trustees.  No 
one  could  have  had  more  supportive  and 
helpful  chairmen  than  I  have.  First  Dr. 
William  Hanson  whose  academic  inter- 
est and  vision  greatly  aided  the  initiation 
of  the  WPI  Plan.  And  now  Milton 
Higgins,  whose  breadth  of  knowledge  of 
people  and  social  forces  is  a  constant 
amazement  and  continuous  help. 
Without  his  willingness  to  listen  and 
probe  and  guide,  these  past  three  years 
would  have  been  much  less  productive 
for  WPI. 

Alumni 

No  private  institution  can  continue  suc- 
cessfully without  the  strong  interest  and 
support  of  its  graduates.  WPI  is  no 
exception.  It  has  been  favored  by  a 
strong  group  of  alumni  trustees.  Their 
support  has  been  terribly  important. 

Equally  important  has  been  the  com- 
mitment of  the  general  alumni  body. 
Integrating  their  volunteer  efforts  with 
the  college  staffs  full-time  efforts  is 
essential  to  the  success  of  our  programs. 
It  was  to  these  ends  that  Robert  Higgs 
and  then  Jim  Donahue,  as  presidents  of 
the  Alumni  Association,  joined  us  on  the 
hill  in  creating  more  formal  and  closer 
lies. 

In  my  estimation  the  results  of  this 
close  relationship  have  been  all  positive. 
I  count  it  a  major  success  for  WPI  in  the 
past  five  years. 


Students  and  Faculty 

First,  the  Students.  Talking  about  stu- 
dents is  difficult  for  a  college  president. 
Inevitably  it  is  the  nature  of  things  that 
he  deals  with  the  best  and  the  worst.  In 
drawing  conclusions  one  responds  to 
impressions  or  to  fragmentary  data.  But 
I  do  have  a  sense  of  relatively  greater 
independence,  self-reliance,  and  sophis- 
tication compared  to  five  years  ago.  Not 
that  WPI  students  have  these  qualities  in 
the  same  degree  as  students  in  the  Ivy 
League  schools;  far  from  it.  But  they 
continue  to  be  fine,  goal-oriented,  hard- 
working people  whom  I  find  it  a  pleasure 
to  serve. 

Statistically  we  surely  have  changed  in 
five  years:  from  1630  undergraduates 
enrolled  in  fall  1968  to  2048  this  fall. 
From  2  women  to  133.  From  1  black  to 
30.  From  106  to  225  foreign  students 
(especially  important  is  the  rise  from  31 
to  86  foreign  undergraduates).  But  with 
all  this  just  about  half  our  students  still 
come  from  Massachusetts. 

The  numbers  have  increased,  the  vari- 
ety of  backgrounds  and  interests  has 
increased.  Our  challenge  now  is  a  proper 
balance  between  increased  quality  of  stu- 
dent and  maximum  value  added  in  the 
educational  process. 


imber  1  f)/A      WPI  Journal 


Now,  the  Faculty.  In  these  days  an 
enrollment  growth  of  4.5%  a  year  is 
essentially  stability .  The  resulting  sta- 
bility in  number  of  faculty  creates  a  con- 
cern, shared  across  the  country,  about  the 
educational  and  economic  effects  of  a 
stable  and  highly  tenured  faculty. 
Another  problem  for  the  future  but  one 
that  we  are  already  hard  at  work  to  solve. 

How  faculty  and  administration  can 
work  together  for  the  institution  is  nicely 
shown  by  Figure  4.  Without  these  out- 
side sponsored  programs  I  doubt  that 
WPI  would  have  survived  as  an 
institution  or  retained  the  kind  of  faculty 
that  gives  us  pride  in  our  educational 
process.  Let  me  couple  these  results 
(where  you  can  see  that  the  last  five  years 
have  averaged  $852,000  for  sponsored 
programs  and  $528,000  for  sponsored 
research  versus  $495,000  and  $245,000 
for  the  previous  five  years)  with  capital 
giving  to  WPI  as  shown  in  Figure  5. 

You  can  readily  see  that  we  have  not 
been  collecting  much  money  for  new 
buildings  in  the  last  eight  years.  And  I 
think  you  can  see  from  the  wild  annual 
gyrations  of  capital  giving  for  other 
purposes  why  presidents  and  devel- 
opment officers  grow  old  before  their 
time.  Let  me  add  that  without  the  WPI 
Plan  to  Restore  the  Balance  those 
gyrations  might  all  have  been  down- 
ward. Tom  Denney  has  contributed 
mightily  to  this  effort. 

It  is  easier  to  know  170  faculty  than 
2,000  students .  In  fact,  without  a  per- 
manent dean  of  faculty  for  two  years  it 
was  impossible  not  to  know  the  faculty 
well.  From  this  knowledge  I  would  stress 
two  things:  faculty  are  people  with  all  the 
hopes,  strengths,  and  weaknesses  com- 
mon to  the  species;  and  WPI  faculty  have 
an  unusually  strong  commitment  to  the 
institution  and  its  educational  success. 

Thus,  as  professional  people  engaged 
in  a  complex  enterprise,  our  faculty  has 
spent  the  last  decade  shaping  a  role  for 
itself  new  to  WPI  but  common  to  most 
good  institutions.  This  role  is  more 
active  individual  participation  in  aca- 
demic decision-making  and  is  well 
described  in  the  faculty  constitution  that 
was  approved  back  in  1970-71. 


1,000 

4,000 

950 

Figure  4:                                / 

[   Figure  5: 

900 

Sponsored  Activities          / 

i  Capital  Support  of  WPI 

850 

at  WPI                   /      N/ 

i 

800 

k        I 

\ 

750 

i\        /Sponsored 

3,000 

\ 

700 

650 

»  600 

CO 

o  550 

/   \      /  programs 

|\        ICapital  for  other  purposes 

"o 

■5  500 

CO 

■o  450 

/                           / 
.-                            / 
/ 
/                          / 

1 2,000 
o 

"O 

u  1             / 

¥n      .  / 

(0 

«  400 
o 

/         ^--«/ 

o 

V) 

n 

jE  350 

/          / 

c 

CO 

300 
250 
200 
150 

/          / 
/           / 
f            1 
1 
1 
t 
1 

13 
o 

H  1,000 

\  \  A 

100 

1  Sponsored  research 

50 
0 

+*' 

0 
19 

iCapital  for  buildings 

1965    66    67     68     69    70     71     72     73     74 

55   66    67     68     69    70     71     72     73    74 

Naturally  enough,  the  relaxation  of  a 
previously  strong  hierarchical  structure 
and  the  growth  of  a  collegial  structure 
has  led  to  an  excess  of  committees  and 
requries  a  faculty  reassessment  of  goals 
and  priorities  for  each  person's  time. 
That  is  happening  informally  as  each 
person  becomes  more  sophisticated 
about  the  dynamics  of  the  college.  It  is 
my  belief  that  this  expanded  faculty  role 
came  about  because  of  the  unusual  fac- 
ulty commitment  to  WPI. 

The  existence  of  the  WPI  Plan  is  a 
tribute  to  our  faculty  as  people  and  as 
committed  members  of  the  WPI  com- 
munity. Only  people  who  wanted  WPI 
to  survive  would  commit  such  huge 
amounts  of  time  to  making  the  Plan 
work.  I  will  grant  that  some  are  less  than 
enthusiastic  about  it  and  some  who  still 
don't  share  the  vision  of  our  educational 
goals.  But  by  and  large  our  faculty  are 
risking  their  livelihood  and  their  profes- 
sional growth  to  bring  the  Plan  to  fru- 
ition. It  is  my  feeling  that,  as  a  result,  we 
are  regenerating  a  real  and  deserved 
pride  in  WPI  as  an  educational 
institution.  But  a  major  problem  we  face 
is  proper  compensation  for  such  dedi- 
cated effort. 


Academics 

Program 

The  work  of  all  these  people  aims  at  a 
single  goal,  the  provision  of  a  superb 
education  for  the  students  who  come  to 
WPI.  The  WPI  Plan  is  the  mechanism, 
and  a  fine  one,  but  it  still  depends  on 
people  and  knowledge  for  its  success.  Let 
me  remind  you  of  the  major  academic 
areas  in  which  we  now  work. 

Engineering  remains  our  major 
thrust,  as  it  should.  Science  has  been 
broadened  to  include  biology.  Computer 
science  has  become  a  major  interest. 
Humanities  has  seen  significant  growth. 
And  now  Social  Science  will  help  in  the 
total  educational  process.  What  the 
changes  have  been  is  most  quickly 
portrayed  in  Figure  6. 

The  net  effect  has  been  a  broadening 
of  the  concept  of  what  consitutes  engi- 
neering or  science  education.  We  are 
now  perhaps  more  a  technological  uni- 
versity than  an  engineering  college.  We 
have,  I  believe,  a  new  character,  one  that 
will  help  us  meet  successfully  the  chal- 
lenge of  the  future. 

One  area  that  deserves  a  lot  more 
attention  in  this  report  than  I  will  give  it 
is  the  graduate  program.  We  have  had  an 
extensive  and  sound  study  of  it  by  the 
Graduate  Education  Committee,  but  as  a 
group  we  have  not  yet  seen  our  way 
clearly.  The  graduate  program  is  an 
important  part  of  the  intellectual  atmo- 
sphere at  WPI .  You  will  hear  much  more 
about  it  in  the  years  ahead. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974/9 


Figure  6 
Academics  at  WPI 


Discipline/Dept. 


Chemical  Engineering 
Civil  Engineering 
Electrical  Engineering 
Mechanical  Engineering 


Chemistry 
Computer  Science 
Life  Sciences 
Mathematics 
Physics 


Business/Economics 
Humanities 

Management  Engineering 
Physical  Education 


of  Undergraduate  Majors      %  of  Total  Credit  Hours 
1965  1971  1970  1974 


15.2 
15.3 
24.9 
25.0 

80.4 

4.2 

0 

0 

6.4 

4.8 

15.4 

0 
0 

4.1 
0 

4.1 


Closely  tied  to  the  graduate  program 
is  continuing  education.  I  believe  we 
have  made  real  progress  in  this  area 
under  Professor  Robert  Hall's  direction 
and  that  the  opportunities  continue  to  be 
significant. 

Services 

Two  critical  components  of  the  educa- 
tional process  at  WPI  were  well  under 
way  five  years  ago.  I  refer  to  the  library 
and  the  computer. 

Professor  Anderson  and  the  Library 
Committee  headed  by  Professor 
Moruzzi  did  a  superb  design  job  on 
Gordon  Library.  We  are  visited  annually 
by  dozens  of  groups  who  wish  to  copy 
and  learn.  But  the  goal  of  more  learning 
materials  in  the  library  is  far  from 
fulfilled  and  made  more  difficult  each 
year  by  inflation.  A  disappointment  for 
all  of  us. 

You  all  know  of  the  trials  and  tri- 
bulations WPI  experienced  in  arriving  at 
an  effective  computing  system  for  both 
academic  and  adminsitrative  purposes. 
The  terminal-dedicated  DEC  1 0  and  the 
batch-dedicated  Spectra  70/46  have 
produced  very  satisfied  users.  Mr. 
Jackson's  salesmanship  to  outsiders  has 
made  it  possible  lor  us  to  afford  them.  A 
faculty  advisory  committee  has  provided 
thounhtful  analysis,  guidance,  con- 
servatism, and  self  restraint. 


10.5 

3.9 

20.0 

5.9 

20.3 

8.4 

18.1 

14.5 

68.9 

32.7 

6.8 

12.3 

4.2 

2.8 

0 

0.2 

8.5 

16.0 

4.1 

10.0 

23.6 

41.0 

1.8 

8.3 

0.9 

13.0 

5.2 

1.9 

0 

0.4 

7.9 

23.6 

In  both 

cases  we  s 

3.8 

9.2 

7.6 

11.2 

31.8 

3.8 
6.1 
2.6 
16.3 
8.9 

37.7 

6.9 

15.5 

2.2 

2.0 

26.6 


opportunities  in  joint  relationships  with 
other  Worcester  institutions.  Success  is 
considerable  with  libraries  as  we  share 
books  and  journals,  cataloging  and 
ordering,  and  planning  for  the  future. 
The  cooperation  and  responsiveness  of 
our  librarians  has  been  truly  pacesetting. 

Unfortunately,  early  experiences  with 
Clark  have  made  true  interinstitutional 
use  of  computers  a  presidential  dream. 
Presidents  Brooks,  Appley,  and  I  have 
not  given  up  hope  and  continue  to  seek  a 
joint  effort.  Like  more  library  materials, 
shared  computer  usage  is  an  unfulfilled 
goal. 

On  the  other  hand,  here  on  campus  we 
see  real  progress  in  academic  technical 
services.  Joining  departmental  tech- 
nicians and  machinists  under  Professors 
Howe  and  Corey  is  expected  to  lead  to 
more  effective  and  efficient  use  of  their 
time.  It  is  one  more  way  of  making  us 
academically  one  community  with  com- 
mon goals  and  shared  responsibilities.  It 
is  essential  as  the  growth  of  projects 
increases  the  teaching  potential  of  our 
skilled  technicians. 

Finally  in  academic  services,  I  see  a 
considerable  unmet  need  in  laboratory 
equipment.  In  spite  of  many  individual 
bright  spots  we  have  failed  to  keep  pace 
with  rapid  changes  in  instrumentation 
and  to  upgrade  or  expand  in  many  areas 
ot  need  Thepresenl  administration  and 
trustees  have  some  real  challenges  in  this 
area. 


Physical  Campus 

Very  early  in  1 970  it  was  clear  that  a  new 
look  at  the  physical  aspect  of  the  campus 
was  needed.  The  Moore  report  and  the 
subsequent  trustee  analysis  focused  on 
the  physical  environment  related  to  stu- 
dent life  as  a  prime  target  for  our  efforts. 
It  is  to  that  end  on  which  many  expendi- 
tures have  been  focused. 

The  Stoddard  Residences  were  a 
beginning,  followed  by  the  Ellsworth 
and  Fuller  Residences  offering  a  differ- 
ent lifestyle.  The  connection  between 
Morgan  and  Daniels  Halls  awaits  the 
new  snack  bar  in  Morgan  to  be  a  social 
center  for  students.  The  enlarged  book- 
store and  student  lounge  area  in  Daniels 
Hall  have  been  popular,  well  used,  and 
effective  in  bringing  students  together. 
The  enlarged  and  remodeled  Pub  in  the 
basement  of  Riley  is  doing  the  same  for 
students  and  for  faculty. 

The  greening  of  the  campus,  when 
concluded,  should  carry  this  concept  to 
completion.  People,  rather  than  cars,  will 
be  interacting  on  our  campus.  We  hope 
that  our  efforts  will  pay  off  in  the  per- 
manent closing  of  West  Street  and  the 
creation  of  a  people-centered  pedestrian 
campus. 

The  Interactive  Project  Center  on  the 
top  floor  of  Washburn  Laboratory  and 
the  Project  Center  in  the  old  Foundry 
building  are  prime  examples  of  what  one 
can  do  with  solid  old  buildings.  The 
essential  character  of  the  campus  is 
unchanged  but  the  personal  and  aca- 
demic interaction  among  students  and 
faculty  is  encouraged  and  eased. 
Learning  is  enhanced. 

Development  of  the  TV  studio  in  the 
basement  of  Higgins  Laboratories  has 
set  new  standards  in  the  use  of  video 
tapes  as  teaching  aids  and  in  how  to  get  a 
lot  of  studio  for  your  money.  Its  coaxial 
cable  connection  to  other  areas  of  the 
campus  has  been  equally  helpful  to  the 
teaching  and  communication  processes. 

In  all  this  one  thing  is  unchanged,  the 
quality  of  care  of  the  campus.  Visitors 
constantly  comment  on  the  positive 
impression  this  creates.  Though  the  staff 
of  Buildings  and  Grounds  continues  its 
service  from  more  diverse  quarters  they 
deserve  our  heartiest  congratualations 
and  thanks. 


10  WPIJournal 


The  net  effect  of  these  changes  and  the 
city's  modification  of  Institute  Road  is  a 
more  attractive  and  people-oriented 
campus.  I  hope  our  next  steps  will  con- 
tinue that  orientation  while  assuring 
greater  safety,  efficiency,  and  effec- 
tiveness. These  next  steps  include  the 
complete  renovation  of  Salisbury  (86 
years  old),  Boynton  (110  years  old),  and 
Sanford  Riley  (48  years  old)  as  well  as 
possible  lesser  changes  in  Washburn 
Shops  and  Alden  Memorial.  A  constant 
need  exists  for  less  general  renovation  in 
other  academic  buildings.  They  may 
depreciate  slowly,  but  depreciate  they 
do. 


2,500 


2,000 


i  1 ,500 


21,000 


Figure  7: 

Financial  Trends  at  WPI 


A 


„mnnmnn«* 


mill  Educational  &  general 
expenditures/student 

Allother 

expenditures/student 


Tuition 

Students  (FTFE) 
Students/faculty 
(-=-100) 


60    61    62    63    64    65   66    67    68     69    70    71    72     73    74 


Financial  Trends 

Let  me  return  to  financial  considerations 
with  some  material  that  bears  so  strongly 
on  the  future  of  WPI. 

What  you  will  see  in  this  next  set  of 
graphs  is  a  brief  focus  on  WPI's  "effi- 
ciency" or  "productivity"  or 
"problems,"  as  the  case  may  be.  All 
expenditures  are  expressed  in  1960 
dollars  (using  the  Consumer  Price  Index 
as  a  deflator)  calculated  as  a  per  student 
value. 

Figure  7  gives  you  a  feel  for  general 
trends:  enrollment  rising  at  5. 5%/year  to 
1 969  and  closer  to  9%  thereafter;  tuition 
rising  at  6.5%  to  1 969  and  3.7%  there- 
after; educational  and  general  expendi- 
tures per  student  rising  at  1 2 . 6%  /  year  to 
1 967  and  dropping  at  1 .8%  thereafter.  It 
is  pretty  clear  that  you  can  reduce  the 
cost  of  education  per  student  when  the 
student/faculty  ratio  rises.  What 
happens  to  the  quality  of  that  education 
is  then  a  matter  of  concern. 

"All  Other  Expenditures  Per  Stu- 
dent" include  dormitories,  computers, 
student  financial  aid,  and  Alden  Labora- 
tories. The  balancing  income  for  these 
expenditures  is  such  that  the  most 
appropriate  method  of  presentation  is  as 
a  net  result.  This  is  shown  in  Figure  8.  It 
is  interesting  to  note  that  the  net  result 
was  an  income  figure  up  until  the  time 
that  financial  aid  became  financed  from 
current  income  (and  of  course  the  rise  of 
computers).  Financial  aid  is  noted  by  x's. 


1,500 


1,000 


500 


Figure  8: 

Selected  Instruction  &  departmental 

research/student 
Expenditures  at  WPI  /% 

™'  "'  "■  ^  _.**»**  All  nthpr  prhiratinnnl  SL  nonoral/cti  irlon 


,.."*  All  other  educational  &  general/student 


60    61    62    63    64    65   66    67    68     69 


'' 


Net  of  all  other  expenditures/student 


70     71     72     73     74 


Figure  8  also  shows  another  problem 
coming  from  present-day  complexities 
and  from  success  in  other  areas  of  WPI. 
Educational  and  general  expenditures 
per  student  are  separated  between 
Instruction  and  Departmental  Research 
versus  Other  Educational  and  General 
(administration,  benefits,  buildings  and 
grounds,  student  services,  fund  raising, 
alumni,  etc.).  Though  we  reducedl&DR 
per  student  we  have  grown  very  modestly 
in  the  other.  Very  careful  attention  to  this 
problem  will  be  necessary  in  the  future. 
Help  in  this  area  has  come  from  detailed 
discussions  with  the  faculty-adminis- 


trative committee  on  Administrative  and 
Financial  Policy.  But  this  competitive 
world  of  admissions,  fund  raising,  and 
academic  innovation  makes  cost-cutting 
difficult. 

Finally,  in  Figure  9 1  return  to  the  data 
of  Figure  3  with  the  total  operating 
expense  added.  Here  we  see  one  major 
contribution  that  trustees  can  make  and  a 
major  problem  that  private  colleges  have 
to  solve.  Until  1966,  endowment  income 
kept  reasonable  pace  with  operating 
expense  at  about  1 5%  of  the  latter.  Since 
that  time  the  decline  in  endowment 
income  has  been  a  real  problem.  In  fact, 


WPI  Journal !  December  1974/11 


Figure  9: 

Operation  and  Endowment  Results 

/\ 

Results  as  %  of 

300 

/a\ 

operating  expenses 

250 

200 

5  ,x 

/a 

A 

|100 

ft 

1    X 

y       %     A 

Surplus          /     -\ 

H      0 

c 

|     50 

t        r  v. 

J 

■x 

t       r     *■ 

60    61    62     63\64    ^    66fc? 

68     69    70     | 

72    ?3     74 

1  '00 

a 
•1 

f 

|  150 

Y         <■&■■ 

**»\    /« 

Deficit 

200 

\-.   --' 

250 

\>7 

300 

14  year  net 

V 

350 

in  ordinary  dollars  =  S41 7.500  deficit 

400 

in  1960  dollars        =  S272.800  deficit 

had  endowment  income  stayed  constant 
at  the  1968  figure  we  would  have  had  a 
$330,000  total  operating  surplus  over 
the  past  14  years.  But  it  appears 
impossible  to  retain  the  earlier  15%  as 
other  than  an  idealistic  goal. 

Thus  as  we  all  look  at  the  future  of 
WPI  we  have  to  recognize  that  faculty 
and  staff  cannot  do  the  whole  job. 
Trustees  can  and  must  make  a  major  dif- 
ference in  our  viability. 

Our  Neighbors 

The  last  five  years  have  seen  a 
revitalization  of  Worcester  pride  and 
cooperative  action  focused  on  Worcester 
Center.  Very  similar  in  nature  has  been 
the  development  of  cooperative 
approaches  to  higher  education  through 
the  Worcester  Consortium.  I  have  seen 
large  and  positive  changes  in  behavior 
toward  each  other  by  our  eleven 
institutions  because  the  presidents  and 
deans  and  faculty  members  have  sat 
down  together  to  consider  common 
problems. 


1000 
950 
900 
850 
800 
750 
700 
650 
600 
550 
500 
450 
400 
S  350 
t  300 
S  250 

CT> 

-    200 
150 


Total  operating  expense^ 
(10.000s  of  dollars) 


Endowment  income 
(1.000s  of  dollars) 


60  61  62  63  64  65  66  67 


69  70  71  72  73  74 


Our  libraries  coordinate  closely,  our 
students  mingle  on  each  other's  camp- 
uses, state  funded  scholarships  go 
through  Worcester  State  to  the  private 
colleges,  purchasing  is  a  common  func- 
tion, continuing  education  is  jointly 
presented  to  users.  It  may  be  only  6  years 
old  as  an  entity  but  the  Worcester  Con- 
sortium is  one  of  the  most  effective  in  the 
country,  even  though  we  think  it  still 
imperfect.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  state  gov- 
ernment officials  constantly  cite  us  as  a 
model  for  others  to  follow. 

This  success  with  such  a  divergent 
group  has  led  Clark,  Holy  Cross,  and 
WPI  into  even  closer  relationships  in 
student  affairs,  student /faculty  research, 
shared  library  efforts,  research  manage- 
ment, and  common  departmental  plan- 
ning. We  see  the  germination  of  some 
tender  but  potentially  bounteous  crops 
in  both  increased  quality  and  reduced 
cost  of  education. 

Character  of  WPI 

WPI's  character  has  changed  from  five 
years  ago.  As  I  read  our  history,  WPI's 
character  now  is  very  much  as  it  was  in 
the  1880s  when  Charles  Allen,  Milton 
Higgins,  and  George  Alden  were 
creating  waves  with  their  new  kind  of 
"practical"  education.  As  you  read  the 
civil  and  mechanical  engineering 
journalsof  those  days  you  have  the  same 
sense  of  innovative  people  at  work  here, 
and  of  Outsiders  viewing  the  process  with 
both  skepticism  and  admiration. 


Engineering  colleges  across  the  coun- 
try are  different  from  what  they  were  five 
years  ago.  Our  differences  in  five  years 
are  greater  because  we  stayed  too  long  in 
one  mode  while  others  moved  ahead. 
Now  we  have  leapfrogged  them  through 
a  really  incredible  set  of  actions  by  our 
faculty  with  strong  encouragement  and 
support  by  trustees  and  administration. 

My  present  perception  of  WPI's  char- 
acter can  best  be  described  as  a  college  of 
individualized  quantitative  thinking.  It 
is  more  than  a  classical  engineering 
college,  for  it  recognizes  that  its  gradu- 
ates will  do  many  more  things  in  their 
careers  than  engineering  or  science.  But 
whatever  they  do,  they  will  take  with 
them  the  habits  of  logical  thinking  that 
come  from  the  demands  of  quantitative 
solutions  to  problems,  solutions  that  also 
concern  themselves  with  human  values 
and  social  forces.  If  we  succeed,  we  will 
have  educated  the  leaders  of  tomorrow . . 
.  leaders  with  the  knowledge  needed  yet 
with  the  integrity  that  makes  people  will- 
ing to  have  them  as  leaders.  With  this  in 
mind,  I  believe  WPI  will  mean  as  much 
to  the  country  as  m.i.t.,  Caltech,  or  rpi. 


Conclusion 

This  has  been  a  lengthy  account.  Many 
people  and  problems  have  been  omitted 
even  so.  But  I  do  hope  you  can  see  the 
thrust  of  WPI  in  the  1970s.  It  is  to 
achieve  the  goals  of  the  WPI  Plan  as  our 
educational  objective;  to  make  sure  that 
we  have  the  people  to  do  so  —  both  fac- 
ulty and  students;  to  bring  our  academic 
facilities  up  to  the  quality  essential  for 
the  Plan's  success;  and  to  fund  the  opera- 
tion in  ways  equitable  to  all  involved. 
•  Such  global  statements  of  our  objec- 
tives need  some  particularization  to 
make  them  real.  Let  me  try  to  do  so  as 
follows: 


12     'incember  n/4     WPI  Journal 


1.  WPI's  educational  mission  is  high 
quality  undergraduate  education 
with  a  few  centers  of  excellence  in 
graduate  research  and  the  necessary 
scholarly  work  that  keeps  its  faculty 
good  and  up-to-date. 

2.  WPI  is  and  will  remain  a  small  college 
with  about  its  present  enrollment. 
WPI  is  solvent,  with  a  generally  fine 
campus  and  physical  plant. 

3.  The  growth  of  the  life  sciences  and 
social  sciences  and  of  the  number  of 
women  students  at  WPI  is  essential 
for  quality  and  sustained  enrollment. 

4.  The  economic  pressures  on  our  natu- 
ral sources  of  students,  the  middle  or 
lower  middle  income  family,  will 
force  a  pattern  of  increased  state  sup- 
port of  us,  of  all  private  higher 
education. 

5.  These  same  pressures  and  our  own 
search  for  quality  will  lead  inevitably 
to  much  closer  working  relationships 
with  our  sister  institutions,  with 
public  institutions  through  the  Asso- 
ciation of  Independent  Colleges  and 
Universities  in  Massachusetts  and 
with  the  Board  of  Higher  Education. 

6.  The  need  for  successful  achievement 
of  the  WPI  Plan  to  Restore  the  Bal- 
ance is  clear  —  in  the  upgrading  of  fac- 
ulty and  staff  salaries,  the  equipping 
of  our  laboratories  and  library,  in  the 
day-to-day  operation  of  the  college. 

7.  We  are  at  a  kind  of  crossroads.  We 
have  generated  the  means  for  future 
success  of  WPI  —faculty,  facilities, 
students.  But  if  we  now  fail  to  grasp 
this  opportunity  for  lack  of  funds,  all 
will  be  lost.  Now  is  the  time  for 
renewed  effort,  the  extra  push,  the 
special  action.  Relaxation  is  some- 
thing we  cannot  afford. 

8.  The  commitment  to  WPI  of  all  of  us 
—  trustees,  faculty,  students,  and 
alumni  —  must  continue  at  its  present 
high  level  if  we  are  to  succeed.  In  case 
you  wondered,  I  believe  that  private 
higher  education  is  just  about  the 
most  exciting  place  to  work  that  any- 
one can  find  in  the  1 970s.  If  you  agree, 
then  WPI  will  also  be  one  of  the  most 
successful.  IIIPI 


Coombsie 


by  Carl  A.  Keyser  '39 


WHEN  I  MET  HIM,  Zelotes 
Woods  Coombs  had  been  on  the 
faculty  for  forty-six  years  and  he  had 
achieved  a  reputation  as  formidable  as 
his  name.  He  was  rotund  and  stocky,  a 
man  whose  pink  face  was  framed  by  a 
wisp  of  well-trimmed  snow-white  hair. 
Coombsie,  as  he  was  called  when  he  was 
beyond  hearing  range,  was  said  to  have 
been  a  boxer  and  an  advocate  of  Teddy 
Roosevelt's  vigorous  life  during  his 
undergraduate  days  at  Amherst,  and  he 
claimed  to  have  hiked,  not  hitchhiked 
(for  there  were  no  cars  in  those  days), 
from  Amherst  to  his  home  in  Worcester 
in  less  than  twenty-four  hours.  Looking 
at  Coombsie  as  he  approached  seventy, 
I'm  sure  this  was  no  casual  boast,  for  he 
still  had  the  figure  of  an  athlete. 

Professor  Coombs  took  a  Master  of 
Arts  degree  from  his  alma  mater  in  1 895, 
today's  equivalent  of  at  least  ten  years' 
postdoctoral  studies  at  the  Sorbonne.  In 
any  event,  it  qualified  him  as  a  professor 
of  languages  and  English,  and  for 
eventual  service  as  Dean  of  the  Institute, 
and  as  marshall  of  the  Fall  homecoming 
parade.  For  this  last  task  he  carried  a 
coxwain's  megaphone  through  which  he 
gave  brisk  and  somewhat  imperious 
orders  to  keep  the  procession  moving.  It 
moved.  Dean  Coombs  was  crisp  without 
being  impolite,  majestic  without  being 
overbearing,  formal  but  not  unfriendly, 
and  as  interesting  as  he  was  interested. 
Coombsie  taught  a  course  for  fresh- 
men as  well  as  courses  in  English  litera- 
ture and  composition.  I  got  a  double 
exposure.  The  freshman  course  was 
supposed  to  deal  with  the  history  and 
development  of  Indo-European  lan- 
guages, but  in  Coombsie's  hands  this 
became  merely  and  excuse  to  discuss 
almost  every  topic  found  in  any  respect- 
able encyclopedia,  Britannica  included. 


It  was  all  really  a  thinly  disguised 
attempt  to  propel  engineers  into  a  world 
which  lay  beyond  slide  rules  and  log 
tables.  My  recollection  of  course  con- 
tent, thirty  years  after,  is  sparse,  but  less 
sparse  than  for  some  technical  courses  I 
suffered.  We  were  told,  for  instance,  that 
the  Aryans  came  out  of  Iran  and  India 
and  that  over  the  ages  they  had  migrated 
westward  and  northward  into  Europe.  I 
remember  being  surprised  to  learn  that 
the  brown-skinned  Indians  of  India  were 
just  as  Aryan  as  the  rest  of  us.  This  was 
news  to  me  and  probably  would  have 
shocked  Adolf  Hitler  who,  incidentally, 
never  discovered  that  the  Arabs  of  whom 
he  was  so  fond  were  just  as  Semitic  as  the 
Jews  of  whom  he  was  not  so  fond.  At  the 
moment  it  appears  that  both  Arabs  and 
Jews  have  forgotten  what  Hitler  never 
learned. 

Another  interesting  fragment  of 
information  I  retain  is  that  one  could  step 
from  a  Turkish  bath  into  a  Finnish  sauna 
and  hardly  notice  the  difference  since  the 
Turks  and  the  Finns  are  as  closely  related 
as  their  languages.  This  is  the  result  of  a 
tribal  split  and  the  migration  of  a  part  of 
the  tribe  northward  to  Finland  where 
they  developed  in  isolation  from  the 
portion  of  the  tribe  which  remained 
behind.  Although  I  have  never  verified 
such  pronouncements  of  my  old  profes- 
sor I  have  used  them  on  occasion  to 
impress,  where  it  was  necessary,  some 
windbags  who  needed  impressing.  The 
claims  have  never  been  challenged.  All 
this  proves  the  value  of  what  might 
otherwise  be  considered  useless 
information. 

Attendance  was  mandatory  for  the 
Saturday  morning  lectures  of  the  fresh- 
man Indo-European  language  course.  In 
fact,  attendance  was  its  only  require- 
ment, and  so  important  was  attendance 
considered  that  Coombsie  used  a  good 
portion  of  the  lecture  period  to  call  the 
roll.  There  were  200  freshmen  in  the 
class  and  no  name  was  omitted,  though  it 
was  suspected  that  false  muster  was 
given  on  occasion,  Saturday  morning 
being  Saturday  morning.  The  same 
procedure  was  followed  in  the  English 
literature  and  composition  course,  and  in 
addition  here  we  were  required  to  seal 
ourselves  alphabetically.  Hut  since  the 
classes  had  only  about  twenty  students, 


calling  the  roll  was  not  burdensome.  I 
can  still  hear  the  professor  calling 
"Kama,  Kay,  Keyser,  Kulin  ..." 

Calling  the  roll  was  not  a  wasted 
effort.  Believe  it  or  not,  the  professor  got 
to  know  his  students  as  persons,  and  the 
students  got  to  know  each  other.  If  it  has 
been  your  hapless  luck  to  attend  almost 
any  big  modern  university  you  will 
certainly  have  observed  that  it  is  a  rare 
professor  who  can  name  more  than  two 
of  his  students.  Just  as  often  the  students 
can't  name  their  professors,  which  evens 
the  score.  More  amazing  than  this,  after 
forty  or  so  class  periods  of  elbow  to 
elbow  contact,  today's  students  often 
depart  without  knowing  anything  about 
their  neighbors,  not  even  their  names. 
Such  is  the  happy  impersonality  of  mod- 
ern college  life. 

Coombsie's  treatment  of  English  lit- 
erature went  far  beyond  Shelley,  Byron, 
and  Shakespeare.  It  was  a  history  of 
England,  and  William  the  Conqueror, 
the  Plantagenets,  the  Tudors,  Cromwell, 
the  many  Georges,  and  the  rest  of 
England's  great  figures  marched  in  grand 
style  across  the  dais  of  the  classroom. 
Post  Coombsie's  course  it  was  easier  to 
name  in  sequence  the  rules  of  England 
from  Henry  II  to  Edward  VIII  than  it 
was  to  name  American  presidents  from 
Roosevelt  to  Roosevelt.  The 
implications  and  complications  of 
Edward's  romance  with  Wallis  Simpson 
and  his  eventual  abdication  were  dis- 
cussed in  a  memorable  impromptu  lec- 
ture, and  England's  great  constitutional 
crisis  became  our  constitutional  crisis. 

English  composition  was  taught  with 
a  vengeance,  for  the  professor  managed 
to  read,  correct,  and  grade  all  the  papers 
himself.  This  I  knew  because  of  his  dis- 
tinctive penmanship. 

Professor  Coombs  was  probably  just 
as  aggravated  by  the  problems  of  the 
world,  and  there  were  many  in  the  mid- 
thirties,  as  the  next  fellow,  but  he  was  not 
one  to  solve  them  via  pomposity  in  the 
classroom.  Coombsie's  classroom  world 
was  limited  to  the  literature  and  history 
he  loved,  and  to  teaching  us  to  write 
clearly,  concisely,  and  correctly.  He 
came  closes  to  showing  irritation  when  a 
student  colloquially  used  the  word  thing 
rather  than  naming  the  object.  "A  very 
weak  word,  very  weak,"  he  would  say. 


14      jecember  1974     WPIJournal 


"Never,  never  use  it."  And  since  it  was 
often  used,  the  advice  was  often  given.  I 
still  cringe  when  I  slip  into  the  habit, 
even  though  there  is  no  mention  of  this 
sin  in  Fowler's  Modern  English  Usage. 
Perhaps  Fowler  and  his  heirs  could  have 
learned  from  Coombsie. 

In  composition  class  the  question  of 
what  to  write  about  came  up  every  year. 
Long  before  my  time  some 
unremembered  freshman  had  written  an 
essay  entitled  "My  Climb  up  Mount 
Asnabumskit."  It  must  have  captured 
the  colors  of  Fall,  leaves  crunching 
underfoot,  and  the  smell  of  the  woods 
before  they  were  contaminated  by  the 
exhaust  of  a  thousand  cars.  In  any  event, 
the  essay  made  such  a  lasting  impression 
on  the  professor  that  over  the  years  it  had 
become  his  standard  of  excellence,  and 
he  recommended  it  as  a  suitable  topic.  I 
never  determined  that  there  actually  was 
a  hill  called  Asnabumskit,  and  today  the 
lingering  suspicion  remains  that  the  pro- 
fessor invented  the  whole  story,  for  it  is 
not  likely  that  an  engineering  freshman 
could  be  moved  to  such  poetic 
achievement. 

Coombsie  owned  a  1932  spanking 
black  Plymouth  sedan  which  brought 
him  to  work  every  day.  This  remarkable 
car  had  only  one  speed:  twenty -five  miles 
an  hour.  Not  twenty-four,  not  twenty- 
six,  but  twenty -five.  At  twenty-five  miles 
an  hour,  nodding  to  acquaintances  along 
the  way,  the  professor  would  glide 
majestically  along  Worcester's  streets, 
through  traffic,  with  traffic,  or  past  it  if  it 
were  going  less  than  twenty-five  miles  an 
hour,  uphill  and  downhill . . .  and  prob- 
ably through  stop  lights  and  stop  signs, 
always  at  twenty-five  miles  an  hour,  just 
like  a  Sherman  tank  riding  over  the 
hedgerows  of  Normandy. 

The  professor  was  a  full-time  gentle- 
man, always  impeccable  in  his  black  suit 
and  vest,  a  freshly  starched  white  shirt, 
and  ribboned  pince-nez  either  on  his 
prize  fighter's  nose  or  tucked  in  his  breast 
pocket  alongside  a  neatly  folded  hand- 
kerchief. Vests  have  disappeared  as  room 
temperatures  have  risen  and  will  prob- 
ably not  return  until  the  energy  crisis 
becomes  more  than  a  topic  of  conversa- 
tion. [Editor's  note:  it  has!]  And  gradu- 
ally over  the  last  few  decades,  professors 
have  also  shed  their  coats,  abandoned 


ties,  and  for  some  few  even  forgotten 
their  shoes.  Being  a  well-groomed  gen- 
tleman is  no  longer  highly  regarded  in 
the  academic  world  —  or  if  highly 
regarded,  it  is,  when  absent,  not  highly 
disregarded.  Even  cleanliness  is  no 
longer  considered  to  bring  one  in  prox- 
imity to  the  Lord.  Today  Coombsie 
would  more  than  likely  be  cast  in  the  role 
of  misfit.  His  courtly  dignity,  his  gentle- 
manly example,  his  gift  of  conversation, 
his  interest  in  students,  have,  like  his 
black  suit,  vest,  starched  shirt,  pince-nez 
and  1932  Plymouth,  proceeded,  presum- 
ably at  twenty-five  miles  an  hour,  to 
oblivion.  One  wonders  if  we  are  any 
better  for  it. 


Carl  A.  Keyser,  '39,  according  to  his  lat- 
est book  jacket,  was  born  in  Washington, 
D.  C,  but  escaped  unharmed  to  New 
England  where  he  has  lived  since  1946. 
During  the  war  he  discoveredit  was  just  as 
easy  to  get  seasick  in  the  Mediterranean  as 
in  the  A  tlantic,  and  no  more  fun.  After  the 
shooting  and  shouting  stopped,  he  beat  h  is 
ship  into  a  plowshare  and  got  a  job  in  a 
shoe  factory  where  there  was  no  shooting 
but  some  shouting.  His  moral  decline 
started  when  he  became  an  assistant  dean 
of  a  college.  Undaunted,  he  managed  to 
work  himself  down  to  Commonwealth 
Professor  Emeritus  and  retired  in  1968 
from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
when  shouting  and  shooting  again  seemed 
imminent.  He  is  the  author  of  several 
widely  used  engineering  texts,  of  which  one 
has  been  translated  into  Spanish  and 
another  into  Japanese.  Both  editions  are 
easier  to  read  than  the  IRS  Instructions 
forForm  1040.  He  and  his  wife  and  three 
sons  live  in  Amherst.  In  between  books,  he 
paints,  skis,  sails  and  plays  a  terriblegame 
°fg°lf-  UIPI 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1974/15 


Up  in  the  air,  Junior  Birdmen 


Photographs  by  John  F.  Wellsman 


IF  YOU  EVER  TELL  Bob  Goodness, 
'70,  to  go  fly  a  kite,  he'll  go  you  one  bet- 
ter. He'll  fly  in  it! 

The  kind  of  kite  that  Bob  flies  does  not 
look  like  a  fish  or  a  bird  and  it  can't  be  pur- 
chased for  $1.29  at  your  neighborhood 
drugstore.  His  kind  of  kite  weighs  between 
25  and  40  pounds,  looks  like  a  four-pointed 
flying  wing,  and  is  more  accurately  called  a 
hang  glider. 

"You  just  strap  yourself  into  the  harness 
beneath  the  glider,  run  down  an  open  hill- 
side, and  hope  that  the  prevailing  winds  do 
not  exceed  25  miles  per  hour,"  he  says. 

1  his  type  of  daredevil  activity  is  cur- 
rently taking  place  all  the  way  from  Maine 
to  California,  and  when  practiced  from 
coastal  dunes  and  cliffs  is  called  skysurfing. 
For  obvious  reasons. 

"Cape  Cod  is  my  favorite  location  for 
skysurfing  in  the  New  England  area,"  Bob 
says.  "There  the  onshore  breeze  is  nearly 
always  constant  and  you  can  skysurf  in  the 
truest  sense  of  the  word.  Where  the  sea 
breeze  hits  the  rising  shore  lands  it  forms  an 
up-current  of  air  or  wind  wave.  You  sail 
ri^'ht  along  with  the  wind  currents. 
Fantastic!" 

Daredevil  or  not.  Bob  Goodness  leaves 
little  to  chance  when  it  comes  to  the  con- 
struction of  his  glider.  He  is  a  co-founder, 
viee  president  and  general  manager  ot  Mail 
Flighl  Systems,  [nc.,  ;i  firm  in  Worcester 


which  manufactures  the  ultra-light,  foot- 
launch  skysurfer  kites  and  also  publishes 
the  magazine  Skysurfer. 

"Hang  gliders  can  be  homemade,"  he 
explains,  "and  some  of  them  turn  out  fine. 
But  our  company  tries  to  make  sure  all  the 
structural  members  of  the  kite  are  in  order, 
all  fasteners  secure,  and  everything  properly 
rigged.  It's  a  tricky  thing  to  figure  out  by 
yourself.  So  is  learning  how  to  maneuver 
the  wing." 

And  how  does  one  learn  to  skysurf? 
According  to  Bob,  after  you  have  selected 
your  hillside  or  dune,  you  double  check 
your  kite  to  be  sure  it  is  in  safe  working 
order.  "This  is  a  must,"  he  says.  For  the  ini- 
tial trials,  run  with  the  craft  along  the 
ground  to  get  a  feel  for  the  center  of  balance 
and  lifting  power  of  the  wing.  Then  you 
strap  yourself  into  the  body  harness  (either  a 
prone  or  sitting  type). 

Partway  up  the  slope,  turn  the  kite  into 
the  wind  and  see  that  the  sail  is  fully 
inflated.  To  take  off  grasp  the  uprights  and 
run  down  the  hill  with  the  sail  partially 
inflated.  A  few  feet  further  down  the  slope 
gently  push  forward  the  uprights  and  you'll 
he  airborne.  You  can  change  direction  by 
shifting  your  weighl  from  side  to  side  and 
pushing  the  control  bar.  Pull  voursell  for- 
ward to  dive  and  backward  to  climb  and 
slowdown.  When  landing  you'll  want  to 
push  voursell  way  back  to  stop  the  kite  at 


about  four  feet  above  the  ground. 

"There  just  isn't  another  sport  that  gives 
the  same  sensation  of  freedom  as  sky- 
surfing," Bob  concludes.  "It's  mind- 
blowing." 

Also  mind-blowing  is  the  fact  that  the 
craft  requires  no  fuel,  no  license,  creates  no 
pollution,  and  will  get  you  as  close  to  Jona- 
than Livingston  Seagull  as  you'll  probably 
ever  get  under  your  own  steam. 

Ready  for  the  nearest  cliff,  anyone  ? 


/  6      >ecember  1 9  74     WPI  Journal 


Below  is  Goodness'  latest  project,  the  mono- 
plane Eagle  II.  This  has  attracted  national 
attention,  being  featured  in  Popular  Science, 
Sport  Aviation,  and  is  slated  for  a  cover  story 
in  this  month 's  Scientific  American. 


<flfe-^Li 


**■ 


WPI  Journal  I  December  1974/17 


". . .  and  he  knew  with  practiced  ease  that  he 
was  not  bone  and  feather  but  a  perfect  idea  of 
freedom  and  flight,  limited  by  nothing  at  all." 


18       lecember  1')/4     WPI  Journal 


®Wi~*  - 


III!1 


You  went  to  an 
engineering  school, 
so  you're  an  engineer, 
right? 

Wrong. 

by  Ruth  Trask 


IT  HAPPENS  that  quite  a  few  WPI  engineers  turn  their 
backs  on  the  slide  rule  and  drafting  table  after  graduation. 
This  has  always  been  true  to  some  extent,  and  the  accelerating 
pace  of  changing  social  patterns  will  almost  certainly  increase 
the  number  of  alumni  and  future  graduates  who  decide  to 
change  careers,  whether  soon  after  graduation  or  in  later  life. 
So  we  picked  a  sampling  (who's  to  say  if  it's  representative?) 
of  WPI  engineers  turned  non-engineers,  to  see  just  what 
they're  doing  and  why. 


From  the  chemistry  laboratory  to  a  justice's  chair  in  Worces- 
ter's Central  District  Court  is  the  story  of  Ernest  S.  Hayeck, 
'46,  whose  career  changed  course  after  his  brother  was  killed  in 
an  airplane  accident  in  September  1952. 

W:  brother  Albert  was  a  lawyer,"  says  the  recently 
appointed  full-time  justice.  "And  right  after  he  died  we 
decided  that  either  mv  brother  ( ieorge  or  I  would  pursue  a  law 
career.  Ten  davs  later  I  was  enrolled  in  Boston  University  Law 
School." 

At  the  time  of  his  brother's  death,  Justice  Hayeck  was  teach- 
ing chemistry  and  mathematics  as  an  assistant  professor  at  Sto- 
nehill  ( College  in  North  Easton,  .Mass.  Previously  he  had 
received  his  MS  in  chemistry  from  Boston  I  'niversitv  in  1950 
and  his  BS  from  WPI. 


20  WPI  Journal 


Since  receiving  his  law  degree  from  Boston  University  and 
passing  his  bar  examination  in  1955,  Justice  Hayeck  has  been 
practicing  law  in  Worcester.  He  has  served  as  an  auditor  and  a 
master  in  the  Superior  Court  in  Suffolk,  Norfolk,  and  Middle- 
sex counties.  In  1964  he  formed  a  law  partnership  (Mullaney 
&  Hayeck)  with  Worcester's  former  mayor,  Paul  V.  Mullaney. 

Gov.  Francis  W.  Sargent  nominated  him  to  be  a  special 
part-time  justice  in  Worcester's  Central  District  Court  in 
1970,  the  nomination  subsequently  being  approved  by  the 
Governor's  Council. 

At  the  time  of  his  nomination  Justice  Hayeck  said,  "No 
judge  should  be  looking  for  prestige  when  he  is  appointed,  but 
to  serve  the  community  ...  A  judge  must  give  serious  decision 
based  on  reflection  and  application  of  the  law  even  though  the 
matter  does  not  involve  millions  of  dollars.  The  small  man 
should  receive  full  treatment ...  I  will  be  practicing  law  from 
the  other  side  and  it  will  increase  my  perspective  of  the  law." 

Last  year  Governor  Sargent  named  him  as  a  full-time  pre- 
siding justice  of  the  Worcester  Central  District  Court  and  he 
was  sworn  in  at  ceremonies  on  May  8  with  some  200  well- 
wishers  in  attendance  at  the  packed  criminal  court  chambers  of 
the  Worcester  County  Courthouse. 

The  governor,  who  administered  the  oath  of  office,  called 
the  new  justice,  "a  man  who  has  already,  without  any  question 
of  doubt,  those  qualities  that  will  not  only  make  him  an  out- 
standing justice  in  the  central  court  but  in  this  system." 

To  central  court  Justice  Ernest  S.  Hayeck,  his  investiture 
was  "the  fulfillment  of  an  American  dream." 


Frank  E.  Magiera,  '67,  reporter  for  the  Worcester  Evening 
Gazette,  is  a  management  graduate  who  decided  to  go  into 
writing  full-time.  "I  always  liked  to  write,  anyway,"  he 
reports.  "As  an  undergraduate  I  was  editor-in-chief  of  the 
Tech  News  and  I  wrote  part-time  for  the  Worcester  Telegram 
and  Gazette. " 

Even  in  his  college  days,  Frank  was  apt  to  be  where  the  news 
was  breaking.  He  was  on  the  varsity  teams  in  football  and 
lacrosse,  served  as  a  member  of  the  Tech  Senate  and  the  Coun- 
cil of  Presidents,  and  was  voted  into  Skull  and  Pi  Delta  Epsi- 
lon  (the  honorary  journalism  fraternity).  He  was  also  listed  in 
the  1966-67  edition  of  Who's  Who  Among  Students  in  Ameri- 
can Colleges. 

Now  he  keeps  on  top  of  the  breaking  news  in  and  around 
Worcester  every  weekday.  "I  have  to  work  fast,"  he  admits. 
"The  deadline  for  the  Gazette  is  1 1:15  a.m.  Still,  I  check  facts 
as  far  as  I  can  and  try  very  hard  not  to  give  the  wrong  impres- 
sion with  my  stories,  no  matter  what  my  personal  opinions 
may  be." 

"Book  and  movie  reviews  are  not  part  of  my  regular  job,"  he 
says.  "But  I  enjoy  doing  them  on  the  side,  even  though  the 
readers  do  not  always  share  my  opinion.  The're  was  quite  an 
uproar  when  I  panned  the  children's  movie  "Bedknobs  and 
Broomsticks." 

Recently  he  has  written  articles  covering  the  energy  crisis 
and  city  and  state  government  developments.  Frank  has  done 
some  free-lance  work  for  Feature  Parade,  the  Sunday  maga- 
zine section.  He  dislikes  doing  business  and  financial  articles. 
What  he  likes  best  is  investigative  reporting  and  he  expects  to 
be  doing  four  or  five  projects  a  year  in  that  area,  along  with  a 
newly-formed  investigative  team. 

When  asked  about  his  interviewing  methods  he  said  that  he 
preferred  to  do  a  face-to-face  interview  rather  than  rely  on  a 
tape  recorder.  He  likes  watching  a  person's  eyes  when  he  talks 
because  the  expression  can  tell  a  lot  about  character.  [Also, 
taping  has  been  found  to  be  highly  unreliable.] 

After  more  than  six  years  of  writing  for  the  Telegram  and 
Gazette  in  various  capacities,  spending  a  year  with  at&t  in 
New  York,  doing  a  part-time  stint  with  the  Virginia  Beach 
(Va.)  Sun  while  a  naval  lieutenant,  and  studying  evenings  at 
Suffolk  University  Law  School,  Frank  has  no  regrets  that  he 
turned  from  engineering  to  journalism. 

"I  like  my  life,"  he  confides.  "Even  though  I've  been  sur- 
prised to  discover  how  many  liars  there  are  in  the  world." 

Not  divorced  from  his  engineering  background  completely, 
Frank  Magiera  keeps  a  slide  rule  in  his  desk  drawer.  "It's  great 
for  figuring  percentages,"  he  explains. 


Possibly  George  T.  Abdow,  '53,  is  the  only  head  lineman  in 
the  Eastern  Intercollegiate  Football  Association  who  heads  a 
$4.3  million  a  year  business.  He  certainly  must  be  the  only 
chemical  engineer-head  lineman-restaurateur.  And  he  knows 
all  about  percentages. 

For  the  past  three  years,  the  Abdow  Big  Boy  Restaurant 
chain,  of  which  George  is  president,  has  averaged  a  10  percent 
growth.  This  is  almost  3  percent  better  than  the  national  aver- 
age for  similar  restaurant  chains. 

Seven  family-style  restaurants  currently  make  up  the  chain 
which  is  owned  and  operated  by  George  and  his  brother  Ron- 
ald. One  is  on  Stafford  Street  in  Worcester,  while  others  are 
located  in  Springfield  and  Chicopee,  Massachusetts,  and 
Enfield  and  Wethersfield,  Connecticut. 

George  Abdow  had  no  experience  in  the  restaurant  field 
prior  to  his  affiliation  with  the  Big  Boy  chain.  After  graduating 
from  WPI  as  a  chemical  engineer,  he  was  a  shift  supervisor  for 
duPont  in  Aiken,  South  Carolina.  Then  he  spent  a  couple  of 
years  in  the  U.S.  Army  Chemical  Corps  before  joining  the 
family  business. 

His  father,  Towfee  G.  Abdow,  owns  Abdow  Scrap  Iron 
Co.  on  Canterbury  St.,  and  in  1957  the  sons  joined  the  family 
business,  with  George  specializing  in  nontechnical  sales  and 
the  purchase  of  scrap  metals.  In  1959,  however,  George  and 
Ronald  became  more  interested  in  hamburgers  than  scrap 
iron.  They  wanted  to  buy  a  franchise  in  the  Big  Boy  restaurant 
chain  and  start  their  own  business.  Their  parents  lent  them 
$10,000  and  they  soon  found  themselves  on  the  ground  floor 
of  the  restaurant  business  with  their  first  establishment  on 
Route  5  in  West  Springfield. 

In  the  beginning,  the  Abdow  Brothers  actually  did  rely 
mainly  on  the  hamburger  trade.  Big  Boy  hamburgers,  fried 
chicken,  and  strawberry  pies  remain  their  "bread  and  butter" 
items,  though  the  restaurants  have  grown  to  a  complete  family 
menu  and  service. 

Although  George  is  president  of  the  chain  that  now  has 
some  450  employees,  he  still  knows  how  to  wait  on  tables  and 
do  kitchen  work  when  things  get  busy. 

"We  never  forget  that  when  we  first  started  we  regularly  put 
in  over  70  hours  a  week,"  he  recalls. 

Strenuous  as  his  schedule  sounds,  George  realizes  the 
importance  of  staying  in  good  physical  shape.  At  43,  he  can 
run  the  mile  in  under  6.5  minutes.  "Staying  in  shape  is  impor- 
tant, not  only  for  my  football  officiating,  but  more  important, 
for  my  work."  he  says.  "The  better  condition  I  am  in,  the  more 
efficient  and  productive  I  am  at  work.  Staying  in  good  shape 
helps  the  restaurants  and  myself  to  run  much  better." 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974  /  21 


It  may  sound  like  quite  a  jump  from  electrical  engineer  to 
"fashion  king"  but  for  Anthony  "Tony"  Trippi,  '64,  it 

wasn't  all  that  difficult. 

"You  might  say  it  was  my  family  background  that  made  the 
jump  easy,"  he  explains.  Presendy  Tony  is  headquartered  in 
Shrewsbury,  Mass.  with  his  father  Frank  Trippi,  the  "pants 
king,"  and  his  brother  Mike,  the  "style  king,"  at  their  men's 
clothing  store. 

While  Tony  had  virtually  grown  up  in  the  men's  clothing 
business,  he  didn't  make  a  career  of  it  until  fairly  recently. 
"After  graduating  from  WPI I  did  use  my  engineering  back- 
ground for  a  number  of  years,"  he  says.  First,  he  was  a  super- 
visory assistant  for  New  England  Telephone  in  Chelsea,  Mass. 
He  then  worked  for  Jackson  &  Moreland  in  Boston  as  a  con- 
sulting engineer  before  moving  on  to  Sperry  Gyroscope  in 
Long  Beach,  California  and  Northeast  Airlines  in  East  Boston. 
Later,  while  working  for  Sperry  Rand,  he  resided  in  Madrid 
while  associated  with  Iberia  Airlines  in  Spain,  Portugal,  Italy, 
Israel,  and  Africa. 

Now  that  the  wanderlust  has  been  more  or  less  shaken  from 
his  shoes,  Tony  finds  that  taking  part  in  the  family  business  is  a 
very  natural  thing  to  do.  "My  grandfather  started  the  ball  roll- 
ing," he  says,  "And  passed  it  along  to  us.  He  owned  and  oper- 
ated the  former  Worcester  Pants  Company.  My  father  ran  the 
manufacturing  and  retail  concern  for  25  years,  too,  but 
decided  to  go  into  the  retail  end  of  the  trade  exclusively.  About 
ten  years  ago  he  moved  the  business  to  our  present  location  at 
White  City  Plaza." 

Trippi's  still  retains  a  taste  of  the  manufacturing  by  provid- 
ing "free  alterations  while  you  wait  in  four  minutes"  on  all 
pants  bought  at  the  store. 

During  the  past  decade  the  business  has  grown  tremen- 
dously. People  from  as  far  away  as  Rhode  Island  and  Con- 
necticut shop  Trippi's. 

"That's  because  we  can  completely  outfit  a  man  or  boy  from 
head  to  toe,"  Tony  explains.  "No  matter  if  he's  size  six  or 
sixty-six  we  can  furnish  him  with  everything  from  socks  to 
shirts.  Pants  remain  our  specialty,  though." 

Not  only  does  the  store  carry  a  huge  range  of  sizes,  it  also 
features  a  multitude  of  styles.  (Tony's  father  has  often  said 
that  he  never  met  a  man  he  couldn't  fit.) 

"Naturally  we  carry  the  most  up-to-date  of  fashions  and 
fabrics,"  Tony  continues.  "At  the  same  time  we  keep  a  large 
stock  <>t  unusual  and  hard-to-get  apparel.  You  ask  for  it.  The 
chances  are  we  have  it." 

Like  many  businesses,  Trippi's  lias  a  mmm 

"Ours  is  'selection,  quality  and  service',"  Tom 

With  a  motto  like  that  and  three  "kings"  to  back  it  up,  Tri- 
ppi's just  can't  help  being  a  continuing  success. 


Dr.  Charles  "Chuck"  Belanger,  Jr.,  '62,  graduated  from 
WPI  as  a  physicist.  He  then  decided  to  go  into  medicine,  and 
today  he  is  a  pediatrician  in  Saco,  Maine. 

"I  changed  to  pediatrics  because  I  discovered  that  is  the 
field  I  like  best,"  he  says.  "I  feel  right  about  my  work." 

In  July  1973  Dr.  Belanger,  his  wife  Gail,  and  their  children 
Joy  and  Christopher  moved  to  Saco  from  Ft.  Benning,  Geor- 
gia, where  he  had  served  two  years  as  an  Army  captain  in  the 
pediatric  department  of  the  Army  hospital  there. 

Since  both  the  Belangers  are  New  Englanders  (He's  from 
Holden,  Mass,  and  she's  from  Paxton),  they  were  pleased 
when  the  chance  came  for  them  to  return  to  the  area. 

It  might  be  assumed  that  going  from  a  large  Army  hospital 
which  serves  25,000  people  to  a  smaller  area  hospital  would 
involve  a  cutback  in  medical  facilities.  Not  so,  says  Dr.  Bela- 
nger. He  has  discovered  that  the  general  health  of  his  patients 
is  good.  He  attributes  this  in  part  to  the  fact  that  the  immuni- 
zation level  is  high  and  to  the  easy  access  to  health  care.  There 
are  areas  not  too  far  away  where  inadequate  housing  and 
inadequate  amounts  of  food  are  common  and  are  the  leading 
health  problem. 

One  thing  that  has  surprised  Dr.  Belanger  is  the  patient 
load.  His  day  starts  at  8  a.m.  and  often  ends  after  9  p.m.  Week- 
nights  his  office  is  open  until  8:30  or  9  and  on  Saturdays  from  8 
a.m.  until  noon.  He  and  the  other  doctors  at  the  office  work  at 
Webber  Hospital  in  Biddeford  on  a  three  to  six  month  rotating 
basis.  And,  of  course,  there  are  emergencies  that  can  come  up 
at  any  time.  All  these  add  up  to  a  very  full  schedule. 

After  graduating  from  WPI  (where  he  was  awarded  a  Salis- 
bury Award  for  outstanding  scholarship),  and  attending  grad- 
uate school  at  the  University  of  Wisconsin  (where  he  was  a 
teaching  assistant  in  the  physics  department),  Belanger  com- 
pleted the  two-year  medical  program  at  Dartmouth  College 
and  received  his  md  from  the  University  of  Vermont  Medical 
School  in  Burlington.  Later  he  took  his  internship  and  resi- 
dency training  at  Buffalo  (NY.)  Children's  Hospital. 

Now  that  his  training  is  completed  and  he  is  a  practicing 
physician,  Dr.  Belanger  has  come  to  believe  that  doctors  will 
never  resume  making  house  calls  on  the  same  scale  as  they  did 
years  ago.  "This  is  because  a  doctor  has  equipment  in  his  office 
with  which  he  may  make  a  more  accurate  diagnosis  of  his 
patient's  illness,"  he  explains. 

Dr.  Belanger  has  no  regrets  that  he  decided  to  return  to  New 
England.  I  le  finds  the  caliber  of  the  doctors  in  his  area 
"impressive"  and  the  medical  facilities  "outstanding."  He  also 
feels  that  for  him,  the  move  from  physicist  to  physician  was 
the  right  one. 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  October  1,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information 
received  after  that  date  will  be  used  im  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  WPI  Journal. 


1908 


How  come  '08  came  to  be  known  as  the  "ele- 
phant class?'  '  Here's  how:  The  freshman  foot- 
ball team  beat  the  sophs  at  the  Oval  where  the 
Lynch  Furniture  Co.  had  three  different  sizes 
of  tin  elephants  painted  gray  with  red  blankets 
on  which  was  enscribed  "Watch  Us  Grow." 
So  the  class  appropriated  the  smallest  ele- 
phant and  easily  changed  the  wording  to 
"Watch  '08  Grow."  Since  it  was  impossible 
for  all  the  freshmen  to  board  the  trolley  to 
town,  the  entire  class,  with  the  elephant  at  the 
head,  marched  the  two  miles  into  town.  That 
night  the  door  in  Boynton  Hall  tower  was 
smashed  and  the  '08  elephant  was  strung  up 
on  the  flag  pole. 

The  next  day  Prof.  Coombs  called  a 
meeting  of  the  class  and  threatened  to  expel 
the  guilty  parties.  However,  agreement  was 
reached  that  if  the  class  would  pay  the  eight 
dollars  required  for  a  new  door,  the  matter 
would  be  overlooked. 

Doorstops  in  cast  iron  were  made  and  each 
member  at  the  next  reunion  was  presented 
with  one.  Thereafter  gray  capes  with  the  '08 
elephant  on  the  back,  were  used  at  reunions. 

Whatever  happened  to  the  original  tin  ele- 
phant has  always  been  a  mystery!  —  DONALD 
D.SIMONDS,  Secretary 


1912 


FREDERICK  H.  WARING  was  the  author  of 
the  article  "Retirement  Involvement  Begins 
Early"  which  appeared  in  the  May  issue  of 
Ohio 's  Health.  He  is  a  retired  chief  engineer  of 
the  Division  of  Sanitary  Engineering,  Ohio 
Department  of  Health,  where  he  served  for  45 
years. 


1914 


The  widow  of  Dr.  MEI  YI-CHI  recently  spent 
five  weeks  in  Peking  where  she  visited  60 
relatives  and  friends  from  various  parts  of 
China.  Shealso  met  many  colleaguesand  stu- 
dents of  her  husband,  who  for  nearly  20  years 
was  president  of  Tsing  Hua  University. 


1921 


1937 


Mr.  and  Mrs.  LINCOLN  THOMPSON 
observed  their  50th  wedding  anniversary  on 
August  25, 1 974  at  a  celebration  at  their  home 
in  Cheshire,  Conn.  Mr.  Thompson,  a  WPI 
trustee,  is  a  former  president  of  Raymond 
Engineering  in  Middletown.  He  has  continued 
on  the  board  of  directors  of  the  successor  cor- 
poration, Raymond  Precision  Industries.  The 
Thompsons  have  four  children.  Their  son 
Ronald,  '52,  is  the  president  and  chief  owner 
of  tat  Engineering  Corporation,  West  Haven, 
Conn. 


GORDON  CROWTHER  was  elevated  to  the 
position  of  grand  supervisor  at  the  annual 
convention  of  the  honorable  Order  of  Blue 
Goose  International  held  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah.  His  position  is  the  number  two  spot  on 
the  executive  committee.  Blue  Goose  is  a  fra- 
ternal organization  within  the  property  insur- 
ance field  with  approximately  10,000 
members  located  throughout  all  sections  of 
the  U.S.  and  Canada. ...  A.  HAMILTON  POW- 
ELL is  a  consulting  engineer  at  United  Engi- 
neers and  Constructors,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


1924 


1939 


Lt.  Col.  WILLARD  A.  GALLOTTE  (AUS  Ret.) 
and  his  wife  are  working  as  volunteers  in  fam- 
ine relief  and  rehabilitation  for  drought- 
stricken  areas  of  Ethiopia.  They  arrived  in 
Ethiopia  on  Sept.  3  and  due  to  the  Cyprussitu- 
ation  were  routed  to  their  destination  via 
Spain  and  Turkey.  Currently  Col.  Gallotte  is 
serving  as  director,  purchasing  and  inventory 
control,  for  s.i.m.  (r&r),  Addis  Ababa. 


1935 


ALLAN  F.  HARDY,  Jr.,  president-treasurer  of 
Hardy  Contractors,  Inc.,  Princeton,  Mass.,  is 
also  president  of  the  Allan  Hardy  Associates, 
Weston  and  a  director  of  the  Newton-Wal- 
tham  Bank  &  Trust  Co. 


EDWARD  C.  DENCH  has  been  named 
chairman  for  the  current  United  Way  drive  at 
Raytheon  Company.  Last  year  over  40,000 
company  employees,  nationwide,  gave  a 
record  $1 .7  million.  Mr.  Dench  is  a  staff  con- 
sultant for  energy  and  environmental  affairs 
with  Raytheon's  microwave  and  power  tube 
division  in  Waltham,  Mass.  He  joined  the  firm 
in  1947  and  presently  holds  over  60  patents 
for  electrical  and  electronic  inventions  and 
has  published  numerous  papers.  .  .  .  R.  A. 
JACQUES  serves  as  sales  manager  at 
Pelham  Machinery  Co.,  Dumont,  N.J. . . .  OIVA 
J.  KARNA  has  joined  the  Rust  Engineering 
Co.  in  Birmingham,  Ala.  .  .  .  ERNEST  L. 
SYKES  currently  works  as  a  volunteer  water 
engineer  for  vista  at  the  Northern  Rio  Grande 
Water  Development  and  Support  Corp.,  at 


1934 


(The  following  account  arrived  too  late  to 
appear  in  the  Reunion  issue.) 
The  Class  of  1 934  had  an  enthusiastic  group 
of  60  people  at  our  Fortieth  Reunion.  A  dinner 
was  held  on  Friday  evening  at  the  Sheraton- 
Lincoln  Inn  in  Worcester,  arranged  by 
Chairman  Gus  Larson. 

Class  President  Ev  Sellew  presided  over  a 
short  business  meeting.  Class  Treasurer 
John  Keenan  gave  a  report  on  the  class 
treasury. 

Charlie  Frary,  chairman  of  the  Fortieth 
Reunion  Gift  Committee  reported  on  the  for- 
tieth reunion  class  gift.  He  reported  that  a  very 
creditable  $20,000  had  been  raised  and  rec- 
ommended that  an  appropriation  be  made 
from  the  class  treasury  to  augment  this  sum. 
The  class  voted  $800  for  this  purpose.  After 
Steve  Hebert  mentioned  that  funds  were 
needed  to  fix  up  the  administrative  area  in 
Boynton  Hall,  it  was  voted  to  designate  the  gift 
for  this  purpose. 

Class  Secretary  Howard  Whittum  distrib- 
uted collected  biographical  papers  of  the 
members  who  responded.  The  very  attractive 
booklet  was  produced  by  the  girls  in  Steve 
Hebert's  office. 


Bill  Locke  gave  a  most  interesting  account 
of  the  changes  that  have  taken  place  on  the 
Hill  in  recent  years,  culminating  in  the 
recently  developed  WPI  Plan. 

The  class  voted  to  meet  again  on  our  Forty- 
Fifth. 

On  Saturday  at  the  alumni  luncheon  we 
were  proud  to  learn  that  one  of  our  class 
members,  Luther  Leavitt,  was  the  recipient  of 
the  Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  for  dedicated 
service  to  WPI.  Luther  has  been  very  active  as 
an  alumni  chapter  leader,  council  and  fund 
board  member. 

Members  attending  were:  Phil  Stafford, 
Charlie  Dayton,  Howard  Whittum,  Howard 
Atkins,  Howard  Stockwell,  Eugene  Parta, 
Charlie  Frary,  George  Kalista,  Warren  Snow, 
Allan  Catheron,  Luther  Leavitt,  Carl  Ham- 
marstrom,  Bill  Burpee,  Charlie  McElroy,  Tony 
Cowal,  Dwight  Dwinell,  Joe  Flanagan,  Ted 
Hammett,  Ray  Sjostedt,  Ed  Markert,  Paul 
Sullivan,  Ev  Sellew,  Warren  Davenport,  Gus 
Larson,  Bert  Anderson,  John  Keenan, 
Boylston  Campbell,  Al  Phelps,  Louis  Press, 
and  Don  Vibber.  Prof,  and  Mrs.  Bill  Locke 
were  guests  of  the  class. 

Howard  Whittum,  Secretary 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974/23 


Espanola.  FairviewSta.,  NewMexico.  Heison 
a  year's  leave-of-absence  from  Lawrence 
Lab.  at  the  University  of  California  in 
Berkeley. 


1953 


1941 


Married:  GORDON  T.GURNEY  to  Mrs.  Claire 
D.  (Goodrich)  Slovin  on  September  5, 1 974  in 
Holden,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Gurney  gradu- 
ated from  Salter  and  is  employed  in  the 
learning  disabilities  program  of  the 
Wachusett  Regional  School  District  in 
Holden.  Her  husband  works  for  Feecon  Corp. 
in  Westboro. 


1945 


Dr.  CARL  CLARK,  former  head  of  the  depart- 
ment of  life  sciences  at  WPI,  is  now  executive 
director  for  the  Commission  for  the 
Advancement  of  Public  Interest  Groups  in 
Washington,  DC...  JAMES  J.  SHEA  is  asso- 
ciated with  the  Atomic  Energy  Commission  in 
Germantown,  Md. 


1946 


WILLIAM  G.  DALY  was  recently  promoted  to 
president  of  the  Hill's  Division  at  Riviana 
Foods,  Inc.,  Houston,  Texas.  The  responsi- 
bilities of  the  division  will  be  the  production 
and  marketing  of  all  pet  food  items  including 
the  line  of  commercial  dog  foods  which  will  be 
produced  by  the  Hill's  division  but  marketed 
through  the  grocery  products  division.  .  .  . 
WILLIAM  R.  GROGAN,  dean  of  under- 
graduate studies  at  WPI,  spoke  about  the  WPI 
Plan  before  the  Exchange  Club  of  Athol 
(Mass.)  in  October.  .  .  .  CARL  W.  BERGMAN, 
Jr.  serves  as  branch  chief  at  the  Defense 
Communications  Agency  in  Reston,  Va.  .  . 
JOHN  M.  LONGO  is  vice  president  of  voa  nat 
in  Washington,  DC. 


1949 


KARL  BERGGREN  has  been  named  plant 
manager  at  Elastomers.  Inc  ,  Williamsville, 
N  Y  The  firm  is  a  custom  caster  of  urethane 
parts  and  manufacturer  of  engineered 
devices 


1950 


GLENN  E  FROM  works  for  Rockwell  Inter- 
national, Space  Division,  Downey.  Calif.  .  .  . 
Col  FRANK  W  HARDING  III  (usaf),  a  director 
of  procurement,  hasjust  been  reassigned  to 
Wright  Patterson  afb,  Ohio  from  Griffiss  afb  in 
Rome.  N  Y 


CHARLES  D.  FLANAGAN  was  recently 
named  manager  of  the  appliance  and  heating 
controls  department  as  well  as  manager  of 
commercial  controls  in  the  Control  Products 
Division  of  Texas  Instruments,  Incorporated, 
Attleboro,  Mass.  He  joined  ti  in  1955.  A 
member  of  the  Attleboro  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, he  has  also  been  active  in  the  United 
Fund  and  ymca  work.  He  is  a  commander  in 
the  Naval  Reserve.  . .  .  Presently  THOMAS  P. 
O'CONNOR  serves  as  dean  of  the  evening 
school  at  Worcester  Junior  College. 


1954 


WESLEY  D.WHEELER  has  formed  a  new  cor- 
poration, Wesley  D.  Wheeler  Associates,  Ltd. 
(International  Maritime  Consultants)  in  New 
York  City.  Prior  to  establishing  his  own  prac- 
tice, he  was  technical  director  of  American 
Bulk  Carriers  in  New  York.  Also,  he  has  spent 
extensive  time  in  Europe  leading  vessel  con- 
struction and  conversion  programs  and 
served  as  technical  counselor  to  the  New 
Shipbuilding  Group  in  the  Bay  of  Cadiz  in 
Spain.  Mr.  Wheeler,  who  is  a  chartered  engi- 
neer with  a  master's  degree  in  naval  archi- 
tecture and  marine  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Michigan,  is  a  member  of  a  ship- 
building family  which  has  built  thousands  of 
yachts,  commercial  craftand  military  vessels. 

Hisson,  Wesley,  isafreshman  at  WPI ROY 

H.  WISE,  a  communications  consultant  for 
New  York  Telephone  Co.,  and  his  wife,  Miriam 
held  a  macrame  structures  exhibit  at  Caldwell 
(N.J.)  College  in  September.  Miriam  does  the 
innovative  macrame  (finger  weaving)  and 
Roy  builds  the  frames,  making  the  couple 
pioneers  in  creating  unique  sculptural  home 
furnishings.  Among  their  creations  are  sliding 
framed  window  and  door  panels,  macrame 
covered  tables,  lamp  shades,  and  curtain 
panels.  They  like  to  work  with  jute,  which  is 
rough-looking  and  doesn't  show  stains. 


1958 


CHARLES  B.  CUSHMAN  holds  the  post  of 
manager  of  manufacturing  at  Lobo  Golf 
Corp.,  Orlando,  Fla.  Previously  he  was  a  golf 
club  design  engineer  at  Wilson  Sporting 
Goods.  The  Cushmans  have  a  daughter  and 
three  sons  who  are  enjoying  their  location 
close  to  Disney  World.  ...  Dr.  FRANK  D. 
DeFALCO  has  been  promoted  to  assocate 
professor  of  civil  engineering  at  WPI.  He 
recently  received  his  PhD  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut.  .  .  .  STANLEY  L.  GREEN  is 
associated  with  sparcom,  Inc.,  Alexandria, 
Va. 


1959 


JAMES  A  ALFIERI.  a  bridge  engineer  with  the 
state  of  California  department  of  trans- 
portation office  of  structures,  is  president  of 


the  Santa  Rosa  school  board.  .  .  .  PETER  A. 
NELSON  has  been  appointed  manager  of  test 
operations  for  the  Electro-Mechanical 
Division  of  Westinghouse  in  Cheswick,  Pa. 
Formerly  he  was  a  senior  engineer.  DAVID  A. 
SAWIN,  assistant  vice  president  of  Worcester 
Bancorp,  Inc.,  was  recently  elected  controller 
of  Worcester  County  National  Bank.  Last  year 
he  went  to  Worcester  Bancorp  where  he  has 
been  responsible  for  the  refinement  of 
financial  controlsfor  the  rapidly  growing  non- 
banking  subsidiaries,  Wornat  Leasing  Corp., 
Wornat  Development  Corp.,  Wornat  Insur- 
ance Agency,  Inc.,  and  The  Empire  Group, 
Inc.  Previously  he  was  controller  and  person- 
nel manager  at  Hobbs  Manufacturing  Com- 
pany of  Worcester. 


1960 


FREDERICK  W.  KLOIBER  serves  as  chief  of 
systems  engineering  with  Winder  Trans- 
portation Systems,  a  subsidiary  of  Rohr 
Industries,  in  Winder,  Ga. . . .  PAUL  E.  JOHN- 
SON is  manager  of  corporate  personnel  serv- 
ice at  Mead  Corporation  in  Dayton,  Ohio.  . .  . 
BRUCE  G.  WILLBRANT  currently  works  as  a 
system  production  engineer  of  track  at  Penn 
Central  Transportation  Co.,  Philadelphia,  Pa. 


1961 


Married:  ALVAH  A.  JAKOLA  to  Miss  Concetta 
M.  Aucello  in  Pleasantville,  New  York  on 
August  3,  1974.  The  bride,  a  graduate  of  the 
University  of  the  State  of  New  York  College  of 
Education,  teaches  in  Bedford,  Mass.  Her 
husband  teaches  mathematics  at  the  Fox 
Lane  Middle  School,  Bedford,  and  is  also 
enrolled  in  the  master's  program  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Bridgeport  in  Connecticut. 


1962 


RICHARD  L.  LAZAR  is  a  self-employed  insur- 
ance agent  in  Bellaire,  Texas.  ...  Dr.  JAMES 
D.  QUIRK,  associate  professor  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  New  Hampshire  in  Keene,  also  serves 
as  a  swim  coach. . . .  JOHN  M.  SAMBORSKI  is 
now  superintendent  at  BASF  Wyandotte. 
Wyandotte,  Mich. 


1963 


24  WPI  Journal 


Dr.  ROBERTD.  BEHN  lectures  for  the  physics 
department  at  Duke  University,  Durham,  N.C. 
.  .  .  Prof.  JOSEPH  MANCUSO  of  the  manage- 
ment engineering  department  at  WPI  has 
been  named  chairman  of  the  Management 
Engineering  Constituent  Committee,  asee.  In 
August  his  article,  "How  a  Business  Plan  is 
Read,''  appeared  in  Business  Horizons.  .  .  . 
Combustion  Engineering,  Inc.,  has  relocated 
A.  EDWARD  SCHERER  back  to  Connecticut 
and  promoted  him  to  assistant  project  man- 
ager for  a  nuclear  steam  supply  system 
currently  under  construction.  Last  summer 
he  was  elected  to  the  national  board  of 
directors  for  Alpha  Epsilon  Pi  Fraternity. 


What  you  need 


is 


a  left-handed  skyhook 


REMEMBER  all  those  skyhook  jokes? 
Pretty  outlandish,  weren't  they?  Well, 
the  skyhook  idea  has  leaped  from  the  realm 
of  the  absurd  right  into  the  middle  of  real- 
ity, and  Walt  Adams,  '63,  helped  to  put  it 
there. 

Walt,  who  is  with  the  Research,  Devel- 
opment, Test  and  Evaluation  Division  of 
Naval  Facilities  Engineering  Command, 
Chesapeake  Division,  has  been  researching 
the  ship-to-shore  aspects  of  container 
movement  by  (are  you  ready?)  —balloon! 

He  claims  that  the  balloon  system  is  a 
money-maker  and  can  provide  a  cheap  and 
reliable  means  of  transferring  heavy  cargo 
from  ship  to  shore  where  there  are  no  port 
facilities. 

Currently  the  Naval  Facilities  Engineer- 
ing Command  is  involved  in  the  early 
phases  of  what  promises  to  be  a  good  alter- 
native to  current,  multi-handling  ship-to- 
shore  delivery  of  containerized  cargo  and 
vehicles.  In  March  of  1973,  the  Army, 
Navy,  Air  Force  and  Marines  took  part  in 
exercises  sponsored  by  the  Defense 
Advanced  Research  Projects  Agency  in 
Oregon  using  a  balloon  system  already 
employed  by  loggers,  to  simulate  off-load- 
ing container  ships. 

The  system  consisted  of  three  major  com- 
ponents. The  balloon  was  in  reality  a 
530,000  cubic  foot,  103  foot  in  diameter, 
helium  filled  skyhook  capable  of  lifting  net 
loads  of  12  tons.  The  yarder  had  two  win- 
ches capable  of  independent  operation  for 
moving  the  balloon  up  or  down  as  well  as 
back  and  forth,  weighing  in  at  a  hefty 
140,000  pounds.  A  caterpiller  tractor  served 
as  flying  dutchman,  with  the  ability  to  pull 
the  balloon  laterally  over  the  cell  for 
insertion  and  extraction  operations.  Because 
of  the  mountainous  terrain  there  was  a  limit 
of  only  1,500  feet  of  horizontal  distance 
between  pickup  point  and  the  landing  zone. 

Engineers  constructed  a  mock  container 
cell  and  tilted  it  2  degrees  in  pitch  and  5 
degrees  in  the  roll.  No  more  time  was 
r     needed  to  place  the  spreader  or  containers  in 
the  cell  than  during  previous  at-sea 
exercises. 

A  complete  test  cycle  consisted  of  placing 
the  spreader  in  the  cell,  attaching  to  and 
removing  the  container,  flying  it  1,500  feet 
to  the  landing  area,  placing  it  within  1  Vi  foot 
tolerances,  and  returning  the  spreader  for 
another  container.  Skyhook  trips  averaged 
5'/2  minutes  for  nine  trials.  Several  varia- 
tions were  tried,  such  as  moving  the  cell  to 
the  landing  zone  to  simulate  the  yarder 
being  on  shore  instead  of  near  the  container 
t     ship.  Again  it  worked  very  well. 

In  a  military  system  the  balloon  would  be 
used  with  a  faster  and  more  powerful,  but 
lighter  yarder,  and  a  winch  for  the  flying 
'   dutchman.  It  is  anticipated  that  with  just 
one  such  system,  cargo  handlers  could 


&a#ta 


deliver  a  container  across  the  beach  to  a 
point  a  mile  away  every  six  minutes.  With 
slings,  another  minute  could  be  saved. 

There  are  three  points  which  skeptics 
immediately  raise.  First  is  the  vulnerability 
of  balloons  to  enemy  fire.  The  Air  Force  has 
had  some  experience  in  this  area,  which 
helps  answer  that  charge.  In  1968  a  balloon 
escaped  from  Cape  Kennedy  and  Air  Force 
fighters  scrambled  to  gun  it  down  before  it 
became  a  hazard  to  aircraft.  They  shot  it  and 
rocketed  it,  but  couldn't  bring  it  down.  This 
was  because  of  the  low  2  pounds  per  square 
inch  differential  pressure  across  the  balloon. 
Similar  experiences  with  high  altitude  bal- 
loons occured  in  Vietnam.  If,  by  chance, 
one  were  shot  down,  the  holes  can  be  easily 
repaired  by  the  use  of  simple  patches. 

The  second  criticism  concerns  the  ability 
of  balloons  to  operate  in  bad  weather.  In 
Oregon  it  rained  almost  continuously,  visi- 
bility was  poor,  and  all  communications 
with  the  yarder  operator  were  by  radio. 
Winds  of  25  knots  posed  no  problems.  The 
only  weather  limitations  for  a  balloon  sys- 
tem are  that  it  should  be  bedded  down  (one 
hour  is  needed)  when  winds  hit  70  mph  and 
during  lightning  storms.  Under  normal 
conditions  the  balloon  need  not  be  bedded 


down  at  night. 

The  third  criticism  leveled  at  the  balloons 
is  an  alleged  high  cost.  A  total  system, 
including  the  balloon,  helium,  yarder,  fly- 
ing dutchman  equipment,  lines,  blocks  and 
other  paraphernalia  would  cost  $1  million 
for  a  45,000  pound  capacity  system.  This 
compares  favorably  with  the  $  1  million 
replacement  cost  of  a  single  utility  landing 
craft,  which  can  solve  only  one  part  of  the 
ship-to-shore  delivery  problem. 

It  is  not  only  the  military  which  is  inter- 
ested in  the  devleopment  of  the  balloon 
delivery  system.  Several  commercial  com- 
panies are  contemplating  using  such  a 
method  for  delivery  in  undeveloped  areas. 
It  is  hoped  that  the  system  will  help  solve 
the  problem  of  unloading  modern  container 
ships  when  no  ports  and  port  facilities  are 
available.  One  company  plans  to  be  logging 
from  a  river  barge  in  South  America  within 
a  year. 

Balloons?  Walt  Adams  says  there  are  still 
many  skeptics,  but  as  more  tests  are  con- 
ducted more  converts  are  expected  to  sup- 
port development  of  what  appears  to  be  a 
very  promising  delivery  system.  —  The  day 
of  the  skyhook  is  at  hand!  IIIPI 

WPI  Journal  I  December  1974    25 


1964 


1967 


Dr.  DAVID  H.  LAANANEN,  formerly  a  senior 
engineer  with  Ultrasystems,  Inc.,  Phoenix, 
Ariz.,  has  been  named  assistant  professor  of 
mechanical  engineering  at  Pennsylvania 
State  University.  His  research  has  been  con- 
cerned with  vehicle  safety,  including 
crashworthiness  and  the  biomechanics  of 
vehicle  injuries. .  .  .  JAMES  W.  OLDZIEY  was 
recently  promoted  to  manager-planning  and 
inventory  control  at  the  Fafnir  Bearing  Com- 
pany, a  division  of  Textron  Incorporated,  in 
New  Britain,  Conn.  .  .  .  FREDERICK  H.  SIFF 
has  been  awarded  a  PhD  in  operations 
research  from  New  York  University.  He  is  a 
professor  at  George  Mason  University,  a 
division  of  the  University  of  Virginia. 


1965 


Married:  RONALD  G.  GREENE  and  Miss 
Linda  D.  Gothorpe  on  August  24, 1 974  in  Lex- 
ington, Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated 
from  Chandler  School  and  works  at  rca 
Corp.,  Burlington.  The  groom  is  employed  by 
Data  General  Corporation  in  Southboro.  .  .  . 
Capt.  DAVID  A.  COOMBE  (usa)  is  currently 
stationed  at  Kwajalein  Missile  Range.  ...  Dr. 
DAVID  SAWICKI  is  an  associate  professor 
and  chairman  of  the  department  of  urban 
planning  at  the  School  of  Architecture,  Uni- 
versity of  Wisconsin,  in  Milwaukee. 


1966 


Married:  ALAN  MOKSU  to  Miss  Elizabeth  A. 
Kane  on  August  1 7,  1974  in  Boardman,  Ohio. 
The  bride,  who  attended  Plymouth  State 
College  and  the  University  of  New  Hampshire, 
is  an  art  supervisor  in  Bedford,  N.H.  Her  hus- 
band works  at  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua, 
N  H. 

Born:  To  Mr.  and  Mrs.  SIGMUND  S. 
DICKER  a  son,  Karl  Frederick,  on  August  3, 
1974.  Sig  is  currently  employed  as  a  project 
manager  at  Whitler  Contracting  Company, 
Inc.,  Dix  Hills,  Long  Island,  NY. 

BERTIS  H  ADAMS  III  has  been  appointed  a 
hydraulic  environmental  engineer  at  Stone  & 
Webster  Engineering  Corporation  in  Boston. 
Associated  with  the  firm  since  1971.  he  is  now 
involved  in  site  selection  studies,  licensing 
activities,  and  hydraulic  engineering  for  vari- 
ous types  of  power  plants  He  is  a  registered 
professional  engineer  .  .  DONALD  P.  GIV- 
ENS  is  presently  a  product  manager  at 
Envirotech  in  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah  He  is  work- 
ing on  his  mba  at  the  University  of  Utah.  This 
year  he  had  a  paper  published  at  the  Inter- 
national Simulation  Conference.  .  JOHN 
KOPCHIK,  Jr  .  serves  as  a  materials  manager 
at  Northwest  Hardware,  Inc.,  Portland.  Ore- 
gon DANIEL  J  MAGUIRE  has  joined  Brisk 
Waterproofing  Co  ,  Inc  .  Needham  Heights, 
Mass  RAYMOND  V  PIERCE  works  as  a 
senior  process  engineer  at  Offshore  Power 
Systems.  Jacksonville,  Florida 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  JOHN  ROGOZENSKI  a 
son,  Alexander,  on  December  19, 1973.  John 
is  still  working  at  Natick  Labs  as  principle 
investigator  for  systems  analysis  studies  of 
military  food  service  operations. 
JOHN  L.  KILGUSS  is  a  staff  associate  in  the 
at&t  marketing  department  in  New  York  City. 
.  .  RENE  B.  LAPIERRE  is  presently  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  WPI. . . .  MAHESH  M.  VYAS  has 
been  awarded  a  patent  for  the  invention  of  a 
method  of  reducing  rolling  mill  roll  wear. 
Currently,  he,  his  wife  and  baby  daughter, 
Sheila,  are  living  in  Bethlehem,  Pa.  where  he 
is  employed  at  Bethlehem  Steel  Corp.  .  .  . 
JAMES  WENTWORTH,  a  research  engineer 
with  the  U.S.  Department  of  Transportation  at 
McLean,  Va.,  has  been  named  as  one  of  the 
"Outstanding  Men  of  America"  for  1974.  .  .  . 
HARRY  E.  TAYLOR,  who  graduated  from  the 
Harvard  Business  School  in  June,  has 
accepted  the  position  of  marketing  manager- 
exports  for  the  fastener  group  of  usm  Corp.  in 
Shelton,  Conn. 


1968 


CHARLES  A.  GRIFFIN  is  a  biochemist  at  lsu 
School    of    Medicine,    department    of 

biochemistry,  Shreveport,  La ROBERT  G. 

KOHM  serves  as  a  process  design  engineer  at 
Crawford  &  Russell,  Stamford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
PETER  E.  KONOPA,  who  received  his  mba 
from  Wharton  School  (University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania) this  year,  works  as  a  financial  analyst  at 
Ford  Motor  Company,  Dearborn,  Michigan. 
.  .  JOEL  S.  SCHOENHOLTZ  holds  the  posi- 
tion of  plant  manager  at  Custom  Chemical 
Co.,  Elmwood  Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  R. 
TUOMI  is  assistant  highway  engineer  for  the 
California  Department  of  Transportation  in 
San  Diego. 


1969 


Married:  STEPHEN  E.  CARLSON  and  Mrs. 
Collette  C.  (Gover)  Christie  on  September  21 , 
1974  in  Worcester.  The  bride  is  employed  by 
Educators  Consultant  Service,  Inc., 
Shrewsbury.  Her  husband  works  for  the  same 
firm. 

JOEL  P.  GREENE,  a  Worcester  attorney, 
served  as  county  coordinator  in  the  campaign 
of  Josiah  Spaulding  for  attorney  general.  He 
was  a  research  assistant  in  Spaulding's  1970 
campaign  against  Senator  Edward  M 
Kennedy 


1970 


Married  JOHN  J.  GALE  to  Miss  Mary  E.  Carr 
on  September  14,  1974  in  Worcester,  Mrs. 
Gale,  a  graduate  of  Rollins  College,  Winter 
Park,  Fla  ,  substitute  teaches  in  the  Worces- 
ter school  system.  Her  husband  is  a  golf  pro- 


fessional at  Holden  House  &  Country  Club 

DANA  L.  LOUTH  and  Miss  Theresa  E. 
Radziemski  on  August  24  in  Worcester.  The 
bride  is  a  graduate  of  Assumption  College. 
The  bridegroom  is  a  planning  engineer  at 
Western  Massachusetts  Electric  Co.  in  West 
Springfield. .  . .  LEONARD  POLIZZOTTO  and 
M iss Christina  Comoroda on  February  9, 1974 
on  Long  Island,  New  York.  PETER  GROSCH, 
'69,  and  RALPH  Di  IORIO  were  ushers.  The 
bride  graduated  from  Rutgers  and  works  for 
ge  in  Wellesley.  Her  husband  is  a  quality 
improvement  engineer  for  Polaroid  Corp.  in 
Waltham,  Mass. 

LTJG  PAUL  DRESSER,  who  is  serving  as  a 
Navy  pilot  in  the  7th  Fleet  aboard  the  carrier 
USS  Midway,  will  be  residing  in  Japan  until 
next  September.  .  .  .  EDWARD  P.  FOSTER 
works  as  a  commercial  development  engi- 
neer at  Air  Products  &  Chemicals,   Inc., 

Allentown,  Pa JAMES  P.  TROUPES  was 

recently  appointed  town  engineer  in  Milford, 
Mass.  Formerly  he  was  chief  of  a  survey  party 
at  the  Moore  Survey  Mapping  Corp.  of 
Shrewsbury.  Currently  he  is  a  staff  sergeant  in 
the  Air  National  Guard  as  an  aircraft  control 
and  warning  radar  technician. 


1971 


Married:  ROBERT  F.  JOHNSON  and  Miss 
Deborah  H.  Lindquist  on  September  14, 1974 
in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Johnson  graduated  from 
the  Memorial  Hospital  School  of  Nursing  and 
is  a  registered  nurse  at  Memorial.  The  groom 
works  at  Smith  Valve  Corp.  .  .  .  RAVINDRA 
M.  NENE  and  Miss  Meera  Palanitkar  in  India 
on  April  8,  1974.  The  bridegroom  is  with  Bur- 
roughs Corp.  in  Paoli,  Pa. 

NORMAN  D.  POWERS  and  Miss  Susan  H. 
Mahler  on  August  3,  1 974  in  Worcester.  Mrs. 
Powers  graduated  from  Clark  University  and 
is  a  program  analyst  at  American  Optical 
Corp.  in  Southbridge.  Her  husband  is  a  sys- 
tems analyst  at  American  Optical. 

ROBERTO  BLAISDELL,  who  is  on  leave  of 
absence  from  New  England  Power  Co.,  West- 
boro,  Mass.,  is  doing  graduate  study  in  eco- 
nomics at  the  University  of  New  Hampshire 
under  a  unh  fellowship.  .  .  .  Marine  Capt. 
ALFRED  J.  CARAGANIS  recently 
participated  in  infantry  tactics  training  exer- 
cises on  the  island  of  Vieques,  Puerto  Rico. 
He  serves  with  Company  B,  1  st  Battalion,  6th 
Marine  Regiment,  Camp  Lejeune,  N.C.  .  . 
JEFFREY  P.  LASSEY,  now  relocated  in 
Worcester,  has  left  the  New  England  Electric 
System  to  become  an  electrical  facilities 
engineer  for  Wyman-Gordon  in  Grafton, 
Mass. . .  RAVINDRA  K  VORAisaworks engi- 
neer at  Otis  Elevator  Co.,  Bloomington,  Ind. 
MARTIN  H  WOLF  has  been  promoted  to 
instrument  specialist  in  residue  analysis  with 
the  agricultural  division  of  Ciba-Geigy  Corpo- 
ration in  Greensboro,  N.C.  He  is  responsible 
for  the  repair  and  modification  of  analytical 
instrumentation.  Prior  to  his  promotion  he 
was  an  associate  synthesis  chemist  in 
metabolism  support.   He  helped  initiate 


26  <    .      WPI  Journal 


1975  ENGINEERING  GRADUATES 


SIKORSKY  Helicopters  help  build  a  lot  of  things 
...including  exciting  careers 


Far  more  versatile  than  many  people  know,  the 
helicopter  provides  scores  of  unexpected  ser- 
vices. Specially  designed  craft  by  Sikorsky,  for 
example,  do  workhorse  chores  in  construction 
of  many  types.  Frequently,  they  replace  mobile 
cranes,  and  just  as  frequently  perform  heavy 
lifting  tasks  more  effectively. 

In  the  area  of  commercial,  industrial  and  public 
service  applications,  VTOL  (Vertical  Take-off  and 
Landing)  craft  is  virtually  in  its  infancy.  Support- 
ing technology,  too,  still  presents  wide  areas 
for  exploration  and  long  term  development. 


Currently,  Sikorsky  has  openings  pro- 
viding strong  prospects  for  continu- 
ing career  gains  for  Aeronautical^ 
Electrical   and   Mechanical 
Engineers  in  the  following 
areas: 


mm 

Sikorsky  Aircraft 


DESIGN  (aircraft  structures;  propulsion  systems; 
transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight  control 
systems;  electrical/electronic  systems). 

TEST  AND  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads, 
dynamic,  stress,  mass  properties,  reliability/ 
maintainability;  electrical/electronic  systems; 
technical  computing). 

MANUFACTURING   ENGINEERING   (planning, 

methods,  processes). 

Starting  salaries  and  benefits  are  excellent.  And 
our  suburban  location  in  Stratford,  Connecti- 
cut is  rich  in  living  and  cultural  opportun- 
ities. For  further  information,  see  your 
Placement  Office  for  our  brochure 
A^       and  the  date  of  our  forthcoming 
campus  interviews.  Or  write  di- 
rectly to  Mr.  Leo  J.  Shalvoy, 
Professional  Placement. 


r   i 


STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT    06602 

An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M  &  F 


U 

JITED  Al 


DIVISION  OF  UNITED  AIRCRAFT  CORR 


SYLVANIA'S 
FLAT  RESPONSE 
TO  HIGH  PRICES. 


ANNOUNCING  THE 

NEW  SUPER  ®m  M®  /ft. 
ONIY  $99.95. 

Our  new  speaker  gives  you 
a  power  frequency  response 
that's  Hat  (±3db)  all  the  way 
from  3 3 Hz  to  15,000  Hz. 

Your  ears  will  also  be  grate- 
ful for  what  it  doesn't  give  you. 

There's  no  bass  boom  acting  as 
a  poor  substitute  for  good  low-end  response. 

There  are  no  high-frequency  peaks  providing 
phony  brilliance  at  the  treble  end. 

In  sum:  no  exaggeration  of  highs  or  lows. 

1  low  did  we  do  it? 

By  making  significant  improvements  in  a  two- 
way  ten-inch— one  of  the  most  thoroughly  re- 
searched speakers. 

You  get  a  deluxe  1 0"  woofer  with  a  powerful 


1-lb.,    9-oz.    ceramic 
magnet.  A  Wi"  voice 
coil  cpoxy-bonded  to 
the  speaker  cone  for  out- 
standing power  handling. 
A     Wi"    Mylar    dome 
mid/tweeter  with  a  hefty 
Alnico  ^L  magnet.  Sealed 
air-suspension,  of  course.  And  much  more. 
What  you  hear  is  an  extremely  accurate  copy 
of  the  original  audio  input. 

At  $99.95,  we  think  you'll  find  that  our 
super    .  is  one  of  the  best  values  on  the 

market  today. 

For  details,  see  your  Sylvania  dealer.  Or  write 
to:  GTE  Sylvania,  700  Ellieott  St.,  Batavia, 

/V.i    .  /tM/_(/.  *Manufacturcr's  suggested  retail  price. 

f^TT3  SyLVAIMIA 


explorer  scouting  posts  in  chemistry  at  the 
firm's  laboratory  facilities  in  Ardsley,  N.Y.  and 
Greensboro,  N.C.  This  year  he  received  his 
ma  in  physical  chemistry  from  Yeshiva  Univer- 
sity  CRAIG  C.  LAZENBY,  a  project  engi- 
neer currently  located  in  Worcester,  has  been 
doing  remodeling  work  as  a  self-employed 
contractor. 


1972 


Married:  JEFFREY  S.  HUNTER  and  Miss  Lisa 
A.  Williamson  on  September  7,  1974  in 
Worcester.  The  bride,  a  secretary  at  Astra 
Pharmaceutical  Products,  Inc.,  graduated 
from  Salter  Secretarial  School.  Her  husband 
is  with  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  C. 
JOSEPH  to  Miss  Wendy  J.  Weake  in  West 
Springfield,  Massachusetts  on  August  24, 
1974.  Mrs.  Joseph  graduated  from  Becker 
and  works  for  Jaffee  Associates  in  Worcester. 
The  bridegroom  is  with  New  England  Tele- 
phone Co.,  Boston.  .  .  .  ALFRED  J.  LeBEL  to 
Miss  Mary  J.  Soldolski  last  summer  in 
Norwich,  Connecticut.  The  bride,  a  rating 
analyst,  attended  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut in  Storrs.  Her  husband  is  an  actuarial 
analyst.  .  .  .  DAVID  J.  McGORTY  and  Miss 
Carlene  Bloomberg  of  Granville,  Massachu- 
setts on  August  31,  1974.  Mrs.  McGorty 
attends  Newbury  Junior  College.  The  bride- 
groom is  with  Raytheon.  .  .  .  FRANK  D. 
McMAHON  to  Miss  Leslie  J.  Clark  on 
September  14,  1974  in  Stony  Creek,  Con- 
necticut. The  bride  graduated  from  Becker 
Junior  College  and  has  an  as  degree  in 
retailing. 

DANIEL  L.  DAVID  has  been  named  super- 
visory engineer  of  the  environmental  and 
safety  activities  staff  for  Saab-Scania  of 
America,  Inc.,  Orange,  Conn.  He  will  be 
responsiblefor  coordinating  federal  and  state 
regulations  and  compliance  activities  for  the 
Swedish  car  manufacturer.  . .  .  BRENNAN  R. 
MCLAUGHLIN,  who  recently  received  his 
msce  from  WPI,  is  now  associated  with  Stone 
&  Webster,  Boston,  the  second  largest 
nuclear  power  energy  designing  plant  in  the 
U.S.  .  .  .  THOMAS  O.  MURPHY  serves  as  a 
manufacturing  engineer  at  Brunswick  Corpo- 
ration, Westboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  GARY  RAND  is 
employed  at  GTE-Sylvania  in  Needham, 
Mass.,  where  he  is  working  on  the  circuit 

switch  for  a  telephone  network THOMAS 

A.  REYNOLDS  holds  the  post  of  placement 
director  at  the  Scientific  Placement  Co., 
Houston,  Texas. 


1973 


Married:  Miss  ALLISON  J.  HUSE  and  BRUCE 
E.  NUNN  on  January  12,  1974.  Mrs.  Nunn  is 
employed  as  a  research  assistant  at  Ensign- 
Bickford  Company,  Simsbury,  Conn.  The 
groom  is  the  mill  chemist  for  Strathmore 
Paper  Co.  (a  division  of  Hammermill  Paper)  at 
the  company  mill  in  West  Springfield,  Mass. 
.  .  .  KENNETH  P.  LEVY  to  Miss  Joanne  Beth 
Shor  on  June  30,  1974  in  Worcester.  The 
bride  graduated  from  the  University  of  Massa- 


chusetts and  is  a  health  educator  in  the 
Worcester  public  school  system.  Her  hus- 
band is  with  the   Kidde   Merchandising 

EquipmentGroupofSouth  Windsor, Conn 

JOHN  J.  MURTAGH  and  Miss  Catherine  E. 
Cunningham  in  East  Hartford,  Connecticut 
on  August  3.  Mrs.  Murtagh  graduated  from 
Annhurst  College.  The  bridegroom  is 
employed  by  IBM  in  Fishkill,  N.Y. . . .  DWIGHT 
D.  SULLIVAN  to  Miss  Dale  C.  Anderson  of 
Franklin,  Massachusetts  on  August  1 7, 1 974. 
The  bride  is  a  licensed  practical  nurse.  Her 
husband  is  a  process  engineer  for  IBM  in 

Essex  Junction,  VT DAVID  G.  WATTS  to 

Miss  Gail  Ann  Hunt  in  Windsor,  Connecticut 
on  September  7,  1974.  The  bride  is  a  Becker 
graduate  and  a  legal  secretary.  The  groom  is 
with  Central  Vermont  Public  Service  Corp.  in 
Rutland. 

. . .  DAVID  G.  WATTS  to  Miss  Gail  Ann  Hunt  in 
Windsor,  Connecticut  on  September  7, 1 974. 
The  bride  is  a  Becker  graduate  and  a  legal 
secretary.  The  groom  is  with  Central  Vermont 
Public  Service  Corp.  in  Rutland. 

Currently  ROBERT  AKIE  serves  as  a  gradu- 
ate assistant  at  WPI's  Alden  Research  Labs. 
. . .  LEO  BUCHAKJIAN  is  with  General  Electric 
in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  RAYMOND  F. 
CHERENZIA  is  a  graduate  assistant  in  the 
civil  engineering  department  at  WPI. ...  WIL- 
LIAM P.  COTTER,  a  teaching  assistant  in  the 
math  department  at  WPI,  is  studying  for  his 
master's  degree.  For  the  past  year  he  has 
been  employed  as  a  test  engineer  at  Sikorsky 
Aircraft  Corp.,  Stratford,  Conn.  Prominent  in 
chess  circles,  he  earned  the  title  of  Fairfield 
County  Chess  Champion  for  1973-1974.  .  .  . 
RICHARD  F.  SILVESTRIS  works  for 
Monsanto  in  Bloomfield,  Conn.  .  .  .  MARK  E. 
MOORADIAN,  who  recently  received  his 
master's  degree  from  Harvard  University,  is 
now  teaching  at  Tehran  International  School 
in  Iran. 


1974 


Married:  BRIAN  E.  ANDERSON  and  Miss 
Claudia  J.  Stuart  on  August  10,  1974  in 
Clinton,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a  gradu- 
ate of  Atlantic  Union  College  and  the  New 


England  Memorial  School  of  Medical  Tech- 
nology, is  employed  by  the  Worthington 
Biochemical  Research  Laboratory  in  New 
Jersey.  The  bridegroom  is  with  the 
McPherson  Instrument  Company  of  Acton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  ROGER  L.  BERTOLINI  to  Miss 
Rosalie  D'Amato  on  September  20  in  New 
Haven,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  Bertolini  attended 
Quinnipiac  College.  Her  husband  is  a 
licensed  broadcaster.  .  . .  EARLE  A.  BROWN 
to  Miss  Linda  N.  Abou-Adal  on  August  17, 
1974  in  Worcester.  The  bride  attended 
Quinsigamond  Community  College  and 
works  for  the  Worcester  Telegram  and  the 
Evening  Gazette.  The  bridegroom  is 
employed  by  Jamesbury  Corp.  . . .  DANIEL  J. 
BRUNELL  and  Miss  Sherry  Ann  Surowitz  in 
West  Orange,  New  Jersey  on  August  11, 
1974.  Mrs.  Brunell  is  employed  at  Somerset 
Valley  Nursing  Home,  Somerset,  N.J.  Her 
husband  is  a  graduate  student  in  industrial 
engineering  at  Rutgers.  .  .  .  LEONARD  J. 
BRZOZOWSKI  and  Miss  Mary  A.  Michaud  of 
Bristol,  Connecticut  on  September  7,  1974. 
Lee  Turner  served  as  best  man  and  Garry 
Balboni  and  John  Young  as  ushers.  The 
bridegroom  is  now  at  Tuck  School,  Dart- 
mouth College,  Hanover,  N.H. 

/Wamec/.ANTHONYT.CAPPUCCIOtoMiss 
Gail  A.  Fierro  on  August  24,  1974  in  North 
Adams,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Cappuccio 
graduated  from  Becker  and  is  a  legal  secre- 
tary. The  groom  is  a  staff  scientist-mathemati- 
cian  at  Environmental  Research  and 
Technology,  Lexington,  Mass.  .  .  .  JOHN  D. 
CHIPMAN  and  Miss  Betsy  E.  Marshall  in 
Fitchburg,  Massachusetts  on  August  24, 
1974.  The  bride  graduated  from  Anna  Maria 
College  and  teaches  music  in  the  Norwood 
schools.  The  bridegroom  works  for  GTE-Syl- 
vania in  Needham,  Mass.  .  .  .  MICHAEL  J. 
KOZAKIEWICZ  and  Miss  Diane  N.Fontaine  in 
Worcester  on  September  1 4, 1 974.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Quinsigamond  Community 
College  and  is  a  secretary.  Her  husband  is  a 
chemist  for  Eastman  Kodak  Co.,  Rochester, 
N.Y. .  . .  Miss  MARGARET  A.  MORIARTY  and 
Harry  J.  Staruk,  Jr.,  on  June  1 5, 1 974  in  Ware, 
Massachusetts.  The  groom,  a  graduate  of 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mess.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non-Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974/29 


Worcester  State,  is  employed  at  Phalo  Corp. 
Transitron,  Shrewsbury.  Mass.  .  .  .  KEVIN  F. 
NAUGHTON  and  Miss  Sandra  J.  Shirlock  on 
September  21,  1974  in  Torrington,  Con- 
necticut. The  bride  is  a  senior  at  Lesley 
College,  Cambridge,  Mass.  Her  husband  is 
with  Stone  &  Webster  Corp.,  Boston. 

Married:  JONATHAN  G.  NEWMAN  and 
Miss  Sherry  Ann  Roffman  on  August  1 0, 1 974 
in  Wakefield,  Massachusetts.  The  bride,  a 
graduate  of  Simmons  College,  is  organist  and 
choir  director  for  the  Unitarian-Universalist 
Church  of  Wakefield.  The  groom  is  an  electri- 
cal engineer  with  the  Cottrell  Company,  a 
division  of  Harris  Intertype  Corp.,  Pawcatuck, 
Conn...  HUGH  B.O'DONNELL  and  Miss  Gail 
Linderme  of  Portland,  Connecticut  on  July 
27.  1974.  The  bridegroom  works  in  the 
housewares  business  division  of  General 
Electric  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  .  .  EDWIN  O. 
WILES  to  Miss  Mona  E.  Dietel  on  August  3, 
1 974  in  Clinton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Wiles,  a 
teacher,  graduated  from  Westfield  State 
College.  Her  husband  works  as  a  structural 
engineer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. . . . 

ANN  E.  ANDERSON  is  a  graduate  student 
at  the  University  of  North  Carolina  at  Chapel 
Hill  .  .  .  JOHN  E.  BARNES  works  for  Com- 
bustion Engineering  Corp.,  Windsor,  Conn. 
.  .  .  DAVID  W.  BLACK  has  joined  Dow  Chem- 
ical U.S.A.  at  Gales  Ferry,  Conn. . . .  DAVID  M. 
CARDOS  has  been  employed  by  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.  in  Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  . 
JAMES  L.  CARR,  Jr.  worksfor  H.  Carr  &  Sons, 
Lincoln,  R.I.  .  .  .  WILLIAM  A.  DELPHOS  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Northwestern  University, 
Evanston,  III.  .  .  .  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee, 
Boston,  has  employed  EDWARD  S. 
DLUGOSZ. . . .  JOSEPH  DOWNEY  is  teaching 
in  the  science  department  at  Walpole  (Mass.) 
High  School.  .  .  .  MARK  W.  DOWNING  has 
joined  E.  I.  duPont  de  Nemours  &  Co., 
Wilmington,  Delaware.  .  .  .  EDWARD  P. 
FLANIGAN  is  with  Allied  Chemical  Corp., 

Morristown,  N.J JOHN  R.  GILGIS  works 

for  Data  General  Corp.,  Southboro,  Mass. 

GORDON  D.  GOVER  isemployed  at  Ameri- 
can Cyanamid  Co.,  West  Springfield,  Mass 


.  .  .  WAYNE  M.  BRYANT  and  ALAN  J.  KIRBY 
work  at  American  Can  Co..  Fitchburg,  Mass. 
.  .  ROBERT  S.  GRONDALSKI  has  been 
employed  by  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  May- 
nard, Mass CHARLES  A.  JUTRAS  is  now 

with  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee  in  Boston.  .  .  . 
Farrel  Corp.  of  Ansonia,  Conn,  has  employed 
EDWARD  T.  KAMINSKI. .  .  .  DAVID  G.  LAPRE 
is  with  Charmin  Paper  Products  Co.  in 

Mehoopany.  Pa ROLAND  A.  LARIVIERE 

has  joined  General  Dynamics/Electric  Boat 
Division  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  JOHN  E. 
O'CONNELL  works  for  Haley  &  Ward,  Inc., 
Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  .  Union  Carbide  Corp. 
Bound  Brook,  N.J.,  has  employed  GERARD  F. 
PETIT.  .  .  .  LOUIS  J.  PISCITELLE  is  an 
employee  of  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  (Div.  of 

UAC),  East  Hartford,  Conn MICHAEL  W. 

PONTBRIAND  works  at  the  Badger  Co.  in 
Cambridge,  Mass.  .  .  .  STEPHEN  J.  POW- 
LISHEN  has  a  position  in  the  industrial  prod- 
ucts division  at  Hamilton  Standard  in  Windsor 

Locks,  Conn ROBERT  F.  PRAINO  is  with 

Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

STANLEY  R.  PURINGTON  has  been 
employed  by  Electric  Boat,  Groton,  Conn.  .  . . 
STEPHEN  E.  RUBIN  is  with  Foxboro  (Mass.) 
Co. .  .  .  DAVID  J.  RYBACKI  is  associated  with 
Allis-Chalmers,  Boston.  .  .  .  PAULA  ANN 
SABAJ  is  working  for  American  Optical  Corp., 
Southbridge.  Mass.  .  .  .  BALTASAR  SAN! 
CHEZ  is  doing  graduate  work  in  the  chemical 
Engineering  department  at  Virginia  Polytech- 
nic Institute  in  Blacksburg,  Va.  .  .  .  PAULA  A. 
SEARS  works  for  General  Electric  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Turner  Construction 
Co.,  Boston,  has  employed  JAMES  W. 
SGROI.  .  .  .  SCOTT  A.  SIMPSON  has  joined 
the  mechanical  drive  turbine  products 
department  of  General  Electric  Co.  in 
Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  .  DEAN  F.  STRATOULY 
and  ALAN  MIKUS  are  with  Stone  &  Webster  in 
Boston. . . .  JOSEPH  R.  STREMPEK  works  for 
Babcock  &  Wilcox,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
SHELDON  I.  STRICKER  and  KARL  A. 
SWENSON  have  joined  Stone  &  Webster 
Engineering,   Boston.   .   .    .   NORMAN   P. 


SZAMOCKI  is  associated  with  Bethlehem 
Steel  Corp.  .  .  .  Monsanto  Polymers  &  Petro- 
chemical Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass..  has 
employed  MICHAEL  W.  SZTELIGA. 

MICHAEL  C.  TANCA  works  at  Combustion 
Engineering,  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Currently 
PETER  A.  THACHER  is  with  Ciba-Geigy  of 
Cranston,  R.I. . .  .  PETER  W.  TUNNICLIFFE  is 
employed  by  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee  of 
Boston.  .  .  .  CHARLES  M.  WALDRON  has 
joined  Union  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co.  in 
Portland,  Me. . . .  PETER  WALWORTH  isa stu- 
dent at  Northeastern  University,  Boston.  .  .  . 
BRUCE  A  WEBSTER  is  employed  at  the  Bettis 
Atomic  Power  Lab.  (Westinghouse  Electric 
Corp.)  in  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  .  HELEN  C. 
WEIMERSKIRCH  is  employed  at  Stone  & 
Webster  Engineering  Corp.  .  .  .  ANDREW  P. 
WEMPLE  is  associated  with  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  BRAD  R. 
WETZEL  has  a  position  with  United  Engi- 
neers &  Constructors,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of 
Raytheon,  in  Philadelphia.  .  .  .  DAVID  P. 
WHITNEY  works  at  Gibbs,  Hill,  Durham  & 
Richardson,  Inc.,  inOmaha,  Neb. . . .  MARK  J. 
WHITNEY  is  with  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass., 
has  employed  CHRISTOPHER  L.  WILLIAMS. 
. .  .  STEPHEN  B.  WILLIAMS  works  at  General 
Electric  Co.  in  New  York  City. . . .  SANDRA  N. 
WILSON  is  currently  at  the  Allyn's  Point  Plant 
of  Dow  Chemical  U.S.A.  in  Gales  Ferry,  Conn. 
. . .  JAMES  WONG,  Jr.,  is  an  employee  of  Tex- 
aco Inc.,  Beacon,  N.Y.  .  .  .  STANLEY  W. 
WOOD,  Jr.  is  associated  with  the  Naval  Facili- 
ties Engineering  Command  in  Philadelphia. 
. . .  Presently  GORDON  G.  WOODFALL  is  with 
Fafnir  Bearing  Co.,  New  Britain,  Conn.  .  .  . 
BRUCE  T.  WORK  has  joined  Work  Electrical 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn. . . .  BARRY  S.  YOUNG  is 
an  employee  at  Masoneilan  International, 
Inc.,  in  Norwood,  Mass. . .  .  JOHN  W.  YOUNG 
is  currently  with  Charmin  Paper  Products  Co., 
Mehoopany,  Pa.  .  .  .  LARRY  MARTINIANO 
and  TOM  SPENCE  have  joined  Stone  & 
Webster  in  Boston. 


I  \TERSESSION 

Spend  January  at  WPI  with  us.  Explore  a  new  interest,  an  old  interest,  a  pro- 
fessional or  technical  area,  or  a  social  concern.  For  details  and  a  complete 
catalog,  write  the  Office  of  Continuing  Education,  310J  Boynton  Hall,  WPI, 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 


30       jocember  V)/4     WPI  Journal 


ALLAN  W.  FORBES,  '10,  of  Worcester,  died 
suddenlyonSeptember27,1974.Hewas88. 

He  was  born  on  June  20, 1886  in  Westboro, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer from  WPI,  he  joined  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric &  Mfg.  Co.  He  then  worked  for  a  year  at 
Crocker  Wheeler  Co. 

From  1913  until  1959  when  he  retired,  he 
was  a  partner  and  owner  of  Forbes  &  Myers  in 
Worcester. 

Dr.  HARLAND  F.  STUART,  '12,  a  professor 
emeritus  in  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Rhode  Island,  passed  away  on  August  25, 

j.  1974  in  Gettysburg,  Pennsylvania. 

He  was  born  on  October  3, 1889  in  Holyoke, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer, he  was  an  instructor  at  Tech  until  1 91 5. 
Later  he  served  as  director  of  Hillyer  Institute 

!  (now  Hartford  College),  and  as  president  of 
Central  Philippine  College  (now  a  university) 
while  he  and  Mrs.  Stuart  were  missionaries 
with  the  American  Baptist  Foreign  Mission 
Society.  From  1 939  until  1 942  he  held  the  post 
of  Dean  of  the  School  of  Technology  at  Bill- 
ngs  (Montana)  Polytechnic  Institute.  From 
1 942  until  he  retired  in  1 959,  he  was  a  profes- 
sor of  mechanical  engineering  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Rhode  Island. 

Dr.  Stuart  held  EdM  and  EdD  degrees  from 
Harvard  University  and  an  honorary  lld 
degree  from  Central  Philippine  University.  He 
oelonged  to  asme,  asee,  aaup,  Phi  Delta 
Kappa,  Phi  Kappa  Phi,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  Sigma 
Xi.  He  served  as  a  past  president  of  the  Gettys- 
burg Photographic  Society  and  was  a 
member  of  the  Civil  War  Round  Table  and 

1  Adams  County  Historical  Society.  A  regis- 
tered professional  engineer  in  the  state  of 
Rhode  Island,  he  was  also  the  father  of  David 
A.  Stuart,  '46. 


ROGER  P.  TOWNE,  '12,  passed  away  on 
August  20, 1 974  in  Concord,  New  Hampshire. 
From  1912  until  his  retirement  in  1950,  he 
was  a  field  engineer  for  Western  Union  Tele- 
graph Co.,  New  York  City.  He  was  born  in 
Topsfield,  Mass.  on  June  1 ,  1 890.  In  1 91 2  he 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from 
WPI. 


FRANK  G.  GIFFORD,  '16,  a  retired  works 
manager  of  the  abrasives  division  at  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester,  died  on  September  21,  1974 
in  Hyannis,  Massachusetts.  He  was  70  years 
old. 

A  native  of  Swansea,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on 
June  7,  1894.  In  1916  he  received  his  bsme 
from  WPI.  In  1920  he  began  as  a  time-study 
engineer  at  Norton  and  was  appointed  head 
of  the  methods  department  in  1929.  He 
became  a  methods  engineer  in  1943  and  in 
1 948  was  promoted  to  manager  of  the  wheel 
plants.  In  1 956  he  retired  as  works  manager. 

Mr.  Gifford  was  a  member  of  Alpha  Tau 
Omega,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  and  was  a  World  War  I 
veteran. 

JOHN  A.  DUFAULT,  '24,  of  Hendersonville, 
North  Carolina,  died  on  September  9,  1974 
after  an  extended  illness. 

A  native  of  East  Douglas,  Mass.,  he  was 
born  on  June  23, 1 900.  In  1 924  he  graduated 
as  an  electrical  engineerfrom  WPI.  During  his 
lifetime  he  was  associated  with  the  Cleveland 
(Ohio)  Union  Terminals  Co.  and  Leeds  & 
Northrup  Co.,  Cleveland,  where  he  worked 
for  many  years  as  a  sales  and  field  engineer. 

Mr.  Dufault,  a  past  secretary-treasurer  of 
the  Cleveland  alumni  chapter,  was  a  member 
of  Sigma  Xi  and  the  Cleveland  Engineering 
Society. 

ROY  B.  PAYNE,  '25,  a  retired  engineer  for  the 
Massachusetts  Electric  Co.,  died  on 
September  24, 1 974  in  Worcester.  He  was  71 . 

He  was  born  on  April  12,  1903  in  Ludlow, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer from  WPI,  he  joined  General  Electric 
Co.,  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.,  where  he  worked 
asastudent  engineer  and  section  head.  From 
1 928  until  1 932  he  was  a  sales  engineer  for  ge 
in  Philadelphia. 

For  two  years  he  operated  his  own  business 
in  Worcester  and  then  became  associated 
with  New  England  Power  Co.  In  1 941  he  was 
promoted  to  assistant  engineer.  During  World 
War  II  he  worked  for  the  U.S.  War  Production 
Board  in  Washington,  D.C.  After  the  war  he 
became  an  engineer  at  Massachuestts  Elec- 
tric Co.,  Worcester.  He  retired  in  1968. 

Mr.  Payne  belonged  to  aiee  and  the 
Worcester  Engineering  Society.  He  was  a 
registered  professional  engineer  in  Massa- 
chusetts and  a  long-time  senior  warden  of  St. 
Mark's  Episcopal  Church. 

ABRAHAM  ROSENBLOOM,  '25,  died  on 
August  1 7, 1 974  at  his  home  in  Worcester.  For 
37  years  he  was  an  insurance  agent  for 
Prudential  Life  Insurance  Co.  Last  year  he 
retired  after  five  years  as  a  salesman  for  Hersh 
Neckware  Co.  Mr.  Rosenbloom  was  born  on 
Feb.  28,  1 904  in  Russia  and  graduated  with  a 
bsee  from  WPI  in  1925. 


GEORGE  V.  STYFFE,  '28,  of  Worcester,  Mas- 
sachusetts passed  away  in  July.  He  was  68 
years  old.  He  was  born  on  May  2,  1906  in 
Worcester  and  later  attended  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  a  sales  engineer  at  Norton  Co. 
He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma  Kappa 
Fraternity. 

ANDREW  G.  TOUSSAINT,  '28,  of  Agawam, 
Massachusetts  died  in  August  at  the  age  of  68. 

A  native  of  New  Milford,  Conn.,  he  studied 
at  WPI  and  graduated  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer in  1928.  He  was  associated  with  West- 
inghouse Mfg.  Co.,  Springfield  Commercial 
Body  Co.,  and  Transport  Equipment  Co.,  Int., 
Inc.,  South  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Mr.  Toussaint  was  a  vice  president  of  the 
Connecticut  Valley  Mineral  Society,  a  life 
memberofthe  National  Rifle  Association,  and 
belonged  to  tuo  (now  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon 
fraternity). 

FREDERICK  H.  AYERS,  '38,  died  in  Holyoke, 
Massachusetts  on  September  2,  1974  at  the 
age  of  59.  Born  in  Haverhill,  Mass.,  on  August 
14, 1915,  he  later  studied  at  WPI.  During  most 
of  his  adult  life  he  was  in  the  paper  business 
and  until  his  retirement  several  years  ago,  he 
was  superintendent  of  the  Franklin  Paper  Co. 
Mr.  Ayers  belonged  to  tappi  and  pima, 
national  paper  organizations. 

ROGER  C.  SQUIRE,  '38,  of  Swansea,  Massa- 
chusetts, passed  away  on  September  18, 
1 974  following  a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  in  Somerset,  Mass.  on  August 
29,  1916,  later  studying  at  WPI.  From  1944 
until  1962  he  owned  and  operated  Swansea 
Boat  Yard.  After  working  a  short  time  at 
Norwood  Chris  Craft,  he  then  owned  and 
operated  Aquidneck  Island  Marine  in 
Middletown  form  1964  until  his  retirement  in 
1972. 

A  World  War  II  veteran  of  the  Army  Air 
Corps,  he  served  as  a  flight  instructor  in 
Waterville,  Me.,  and  taught  aviation  ground 
school  at  Colby  College. 

Mr.  Squire,  who  also  attended  the  Univer- 
sity of  Alabama,  was  a  member  of  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  fraternity.  He  was  a  past  presi- 
dent of  Fall  River  Rod  and  Gun  Club  and  a 
member  of  the  Swansea  Police  Association. 

ALVIN  M.  ALDRICH,  '41,  died  suddenly  in 
Phoenix,  Arizona  on  August  29,  1974  while 
visiting  his  brother.  He  was  56.  He  was  born  in 
Omaha,  Neb.,  on  December  8,  1918.  After 
studying  at  WPI,  he  became  associated  with 
W.H.  Nichols  Co.,  Waltham,  Mass.,  where  he 
was  employed  as  a  metallurgic  engineer  for 
36  years.  He  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsilon 
Fraternity. 


WPI  Journal  /  December  1974/31 


EDWARD  A.  WOLFE,  '52,  a  former  pilot  for 
United  Air  Lines,  was  killed  (with  his  wife)  in  a 
Pan  American  Airways  crash  on  April  20, 
1 974  in  Bali,  Indonesia.  He  was  43  years  old. 

A  practicing  attorney  in  the  San  Francisco 
Bay  area,  he  was  also  a  chemical  engineer. 
He  established  and  equipped  the  first 
pollution  laboratory  for  the  city  of  San 
Francisco  and  wrote  the  guidelines  which 
inspectors  use  for  enforcing  the  pollution 
laws.  He  was  appointed  bythegovernortothe 
California  State  Pollution  Board. 

Mr.  Wolfe  was  born  in  Boston,  Mass.  on  May 
19, 1931.  After  graduating  with  a  BS  in  chem- 
ical engineering  from  WPI,  he  worked  at 
Koppers  Company,  Inc.,  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  and 
served  as  an  aviator  for  four  years  with  the 
U.S.  Navy.  He  then  became  chief  of  source 
testing  for  the  Bay  Area  air  pollution  control 
district.  After  being  associated  with  the  chem- 
ical firm  of  Abbot  A.  Hanks,  Inc.,  in  1962  he 
graduated  from  the  University  of  San 
Francisco  Law  School.  He  then  became  a 
flight  officer  for  United  Air  Lines.  At  the  time  of 
his  death  he  was  practicing  law  in  San 
Francisco. 

Mr.  Wolfe,  who  was  a  member  of  Alpha 
Epsilon  Pi,  was  enroute  to  Australia  with  his 
wife  when  the  air  disaster  occurred. 

JOHN  J.  AMERO,  SIM  '56,  passed  away  on 
March  1 6, 1 974  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of  57. 

Anativeof  Gloucester,  Mass.,  helatergrad- 
uated  from  the  School  of  Industrial  Manage- 
ment at  WPI.  For  26  years  he  was  assistant 
director  of  research  in  the  vitrified  bonding 
unit  of  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester. 

During  World  War  II  he  served  in  the  Navy  at 
the  naval  torpedo  station  in  Newport,  R.I.  He 
was  a  member  of  the  Worcester  Economic 
Club  and  the  Norton  25-year  Club. 

JACQUES  R.  BELAIR,  '61,  of  West  Hurley, 
New  York,  died  on  January  22,  1974.  He  was 
born  on  September  9,  1939  in  Woonsocket, 
R.I.  After  studying  electrical  engineering  at 
WPI,  he  joined  the  Air  Force  and  was  sta- 
tioned at  Griffiss  afb  in  Rome,  NY 


U.  S   POSTAL  SERVICE 

STATEMENT  OF  OWNERSHIP,  MANAGEMENT  AND  CIRCULATION 

(Act  of  Augua  12.  1970-  Section  J68S.  Title  39.  United  States  Code) 


\     TITLE  OF  PUBLICATION 

H  P  I  Journal 


REOUENCY  OF  ISSUE 

6   times    per  year      (  Aug..    Sept..    Oct.,   Dec.    Feb.      April    i 


Page  1 


SEE  INSTRUCTIONS 
ON  PAGE  2  (REVERSE) 


2.     DATE     OF     FILING 

September    78,iq7l| 


4     LOCATION  OF  KNOWN  OFFICE  OF  PUBLICATION  (Street,  cm.  county,  stale.  ZIP  code    ,.\o!  ptStm, 

Institute  Road,  Worcester.  Worcester  County.  Massachusetts    61609 


5.     LOCATION  OF  THE  HEADQUARTERS  OR  GENERAL  BUSINESS  OFFICES  OF  THE  PUBLISHERS  (.Wot  printers) 

Institute  Road.  Worcester.  Massachusetts 0lL  °  7 


6.    NAMES  AND  ADORESSES  OF  PUBLISHER.  EDITOR.  AND  MANAGING  EDITOR 
PUBLISHER  IN, 


id  address) 

Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute.  Worcester.  Massachusetts  o/Co' 


EDITOR  (.\ame  and  address) 

H-   ftPgHll  £ay'   Worcester   Polytechnic    Institute.   Worcester,    Massachnsprrs 6/Co; 


manager  Editor  (St 
Nnnp 


nd  address) 


7  OWNER  (If  owned  by  a  corporation,  Irs  name  and  address  must  be  stated  and  also  immediately  thereunder  the  names  and  addresses  of 
stockholders  owning  or  holding  I  percent  or  more  of  total  amount  of  stock.  If  not  owned  by  a  corporation,  the  names  and  addresses  of  the 
individual  owners  must  be  given.  If  owned  by  a  partnership  or  other  unincorporated  firm,  its  name  and  address,  as  well  as  that  of  each 
individual  must  be  given.) 


Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 


"VDDRESS 


rhusetts 1Q609 


8.   KNOWN  BONDHOLDERS,  MORTGAGEES.  AND  OTHER  SECURITY  HOLDERS  OWNING  OR  HOLDING  1  PERCENT  OR  MORE  OF 
TOTAL  AMOUNT  OF  BONDS.  MORTGAGES  OR  OTHER  SECURITIES  {If  there  are  none,  so  state) 


9    FOR  OPTIONAL  COMPLETION  BY  PUBLISHERS  MAILING  AT  THE  REGULAR  RATES  (Section  132.121.  Postal  Service  Manual) 
39  U.  S.  C.  3626  provide*  In  pertinent  pert:   "No  person  who  would  have  been  entitled  to  mall  matter  under  former  »ectlon  4359  ol  thl* 


f  39  U.  S.  C.  3626 


I  hereby  request  perr 


10     FOR   COMPLETION   BY   NONPROFIT  ORGANIZATIONS  AUTHORIZED   TO  MAIL  AT  SPECIAL   RATES  (Section    1J2.122,   Postal Manual) 


nonprofit  itatus  of  thl*     g/>va  not  ch 
Tipt   itetui   tor    Federal     *°  during  prec< 


(If  changed,  publisher  must 
submit  explanation  of  change 
with  thi 


11     EXTENT  AND  NATURE  OF  CIRCULATION 


V    TOTAL  NO.  COPIES  PRINTED  (Net  Press  Run) 


6.    PAID  CIRCULATION 

I.    SALES  THROUGH  DEALERS  AND  CARRIERS,  STREET 
VENDORS  AND  COUNTER  SALES ^^_ 


.    SUBSCRIPTIONS 


C.    TOTAL  PAID  CIRCULATION 


2.    COPIES  DISTRIBUTED  TO  NEWS  AGENTS,  BUT  NOT  SOLD 


E.    TOTAL  DISTRIBUTION  (Sum  of  C and  D) 


G,    TOTAL  (Sum  of  £  &  F- should  equal  net  press  run  shown  in  A) 


AVERAGE  NO.  COPIES 

EACH  ISSUE  DURING 

PRECEDING  12  MONTHS 


ACTUAL  NUMBER  OF  COPIES  OF 
SINGLE  ISSUE  PUBLISHED  NEAR- 
EST TO  FILING  DATE 


1 5,000 


13,269 


riUAjyiT,   i>r  ,-h'I,  ■  J 


I  icrtif)   Hi  it  the  statements  made  hy  me  ah' 
PS  Form     3526      Jul*    l"71 


32  mbet  V)/a     WPI  Journal 


\bur  B.S.  or  M.S.  in 
engineering  is  your  ticket. 

Now  where  do  you  want  to  go  ? 


PLACE:    Rochester,  N.Y. 
□ 

Columbia,  S.C. 
□ 


Kingsport,  Tenn. 
□ 

No  one  locality  for  too  long 
D 


Windsor,  Colo. 
□ 


Longview,  Tex. 
□ 


FUNCTION:  Designing  .  .  . 
products 


production  equipment 
□ 


processes 
□ 

facilities 

□ 


production  methods 
□ 


Keeping  the  factory  running  [~J 


Research  . 


fundamental 
□ 


not  so  fundamental 
□ 


GOAL:  To  be  regarded  by  technical  colleagues  as  an  authority  .  .  . 

for  depth  of  knowledge  for  breadth  of  knowledge 

□                                             □ 
in  the  fields  of 


□  To  understand  our  products  from  the  standpoint  of  users  and  thereby  as  a  marketer 
combine  technological  competence  with  a  strong  interest  in  people 

[~J  To  acquire  through  personal  accomplishment  in  a  technical  job  the  knowledge  of  our 
business  to  handle  administrative  assignments  competently 

Mark  your  preferred  route. 

You  might  even  send  it  in  to  us. 

Find  out  if  the  route  is  open. 

Let's  communicate. 

Write  us  at  Business  and  Technical  Personnel, 

Eastman  Kodak  Company,  Rochester,  N.Y.  14650. 


An  equal-opportunity  employer  f/m 


THE  CLASS  OF  '25 

SOTH  REUNION  COMING  UP 
IN  JUNE*         DON'T  Miff  IT  I 


^t^/i^^C^^L^^ 


-wi^e 


FEBRUARY  1975 


Pqjmsu 


Wyman-Gordon  Energy  Report 


Wyman-Gordon  Energy- 
Saving  Campaign  Aids 
Community  and  Company 


The  saving  of  gas,  oil  and 
electricity  in  W-G's  energy  re- 
duction campaign  would  sup- 
ply the  needs  of  some  1,500  to 
2,000  homes.  And  our  cam- 
paign continues  to  grow. 

As  energy  shortages  deepen. 
conservation  by  each  user 
helps  ease  the  crunch  for 
everyone.  W-G's  effort  not  only 
increases  company  efficiency 
but  can  be  important  to  the 
Worcester  area. 

Our  energy  campaign  has 
another  benefit  also;  by  rigor- 
ous control  of  all  costs  — 
energy  is  one  of  W-G's  sig- 
nificant costs  —  we  strengthen 


our     competitive     ability     to 

maintain  sales,  production  and 
employment.  In  these  times  of 
business  slowdown  the  com- 
munity needs  all  its  industries 
operating  as  fully  as  possible. 
Metal  processing  requires  a 
lot  ot  gas,  oil  and  electricity; 
we're  one  of  the  largest  users 
in  New  England.  Our  opera- 
tions have  increased  and  we've 
been  installing  improved  pol- 
lution control  equipment 
which  takes  additional  power. 
But  at  the  same  time  we've  re- 
duced our  energy  use  some 
15%,  and  are  still  making  prog- 
ress. 


Government  Agencies 
Issue  Warnings 


The  Federal  Energy  Ad- 
ministration and  other  agen- 
cies, both  government  and  pri- 
vate, .ire  giving  plenty  of  warn- 
ing on  the  ways  we'll  all  be 
affected  by  the  world  energy 
situation.  No  matter  who  is  to 
"blame"  or  how  many  in- 
terpretations come  at  us  from 
politically  motivated  sources 
the  problem  is  real,  and  we 
have  to  learn  to  live  with  its 
implications  as  they  confront 
us  day   to  day. 

At  W-G  the  EEA  tells  us  we 
can't  increase  oil  usage  over 
last  year  unless:  li  we  can  un- 
equivocally prove  our  need, 
and  21  we  have  a  well- 
established  and  effective  con- 
servation program.  The  gas 
company  tells  us  there's  a  real 

possibility  of  cutback  III  gas 
Supply  to  W-G.  This  area  is  at 
the  farthest  end  ot  the 
pipelines    from    the    Has    fields. 


weather  and  supply  problems 
almost  anywhere  in  the  coun- 
try can  affect  the  supply  here. 
Electric  power  supply  seems 
OK  for  this  year,  but  since 
much  ot  our  power  is  gener- 
ated from  high-priced  im- 
ported oil  the  supply  picture 
could  change,  and  certainly 
prices  will  continue  high. 

Therefore,   to   keep   up   pro- 
duction, pro\  ide  sen  ice  to  cus- 
tomers  and    maintain   employ- 
ment,   our    conservation 
campaign  absolutely 

must  continue  as 

a  top  priority 

effort  lor  all. 


Twin  Energy 
Problems  are 
Here  to  Stay 

The  twin  troubles  of  escalat- 
ing cost  and  limited  supply 
will  be  with  us  for  a  long,  long 
time. 

They  affect  industry  just  as 
they  affect  homes.  They  mean 
changing  accustomed  ways  of 
doing  things,  increased  incon- 
venience and  discomfort,  at- 
tention to  details  we  used  to 
overlook,  continual  search  for 
new  ways  to  economize,  sig- 
nificantly altering  our  living 
habits.  These  are  now  a  per- 
manent part  of  our  industrial 
and  personal  way  of  life. 

This  isn't  news,  although 
some  people  still  try  to  pretend 
it's  unreal  or  will  disappear  it 
they  look  the  other  way.  What 
we  think  is  news  is  the  fact 
that  it  doesn't  have  to  be  all 
gloom,  frustration  and  impos- 
sible. Our  people  have  made 
great  strides  in  meeting  the 
facts  head  on,  have  taken  on 
some  inconvenience  and  many 
changes,  and  are  steadily  work- 
ing to  accomplish  more 


Ways  W-G  Saves  Gas, 
Oil  and  Electricity 


Many  steps  have  been  taken 
and  odiers  are  on  the  way. 
Some  of  them  are: 

1.  We  removed  electric 
lights  and  bulbs  where  not  in- 
dispensable for  acceptable 
minimum-level  lighting  for 
work.  The  total  taken  out  was 
over  1,000,000  watts.  This  is 
the  equivalent  of  20,000  50- 
watt  bulbs.  .  .  or  500,000  elec- 
tric clocks,  or  7,000,000  night 
lights! 

2.  Lights  and  motors  are 
turned  off  when  not  in  im- 
mediate use.  This  seems  an 
obvious  idea,  but  it's  not  easy 
to  accomplish;  it  takes  added 
thought  and  attention  by  many 
people  to  make  it  work.  Under 
the  new  facts  of  cost  and  lim- 
ited supply  it's  worth  the  ef- 
fort. 


cost-payback  basis.  But  now 
they  are  justified  by  the  new 
facts  of  decreased  supply  and 
increased  prices. 

6.  Improved  insulation  is 
being  maintained  on  certain 
structural  members  in  Grafton 
gas  furnaces.  This  change  by 
itself  will  eventually  save 
enough  gas  to  supply  several 
hundred  gas-heated  homes. 

7.  We  are  experimenting 
with  changing  furnace  linings 
from  firebrick  to  fiber  blanket. 
This  permits  faster  heating  and 
cooling  without  cracking  the 
lining  and  also  takes  less  gas  in 
startup  to  get  the  furnace  to 
operating  temperature.  The 
total  saving  can  be  as  much  as 
157r.  However,  the  fiber  lining 
is  more  costly  to  install  and  is 
easier  to  damage  when  loading 
or  unloading  the  furnace.  Its 
initial  use  will  probably  be  in 
car-bottom  units  which  are 
loaded  outside  the  heated  sec- 
tions of  the  furnace. 


lotto 


aod<u' 


***** 


r**** 


,0o* 


\oto«* 


W-G  Initiated  Program 
Almost  Two  Years  Ago 


Our  Energy  Committee  was 

formed  in  earlv  1973  to  fix  us 
attention  on   stringent  <  ontrol 

ot    Has.   oil    and   ele<  tin  it',      thi 

Inn  I  hree  energies  v  ital  to  out 
operation  This  was  months  be- 
fore the  energy  <  nsis  was  gen- 
erally    recognized,     and    out 

(   Ommittee  was  one  ot  the  first 

ot  its  kind  anywhere  in  the 
<  ountry 

I  Ik-  ( lommittee  ini  hides   T 

tin,    Pun  fusing;    J     J. 

(  onneally .    Produi  Hon     R     | 

I  )onli       I  :  ■         Engineei    <  • 

I.  Durfee,  Fai  llitii     I 

R     I     Goodspeed,    Plant 
Engineering;  Mi<  hael  I lopper, 


Data  Processing;  1  P.  Molony, 
Quality  Assurance;  J.  M.  Mul- 
laly,  Accounting  and  I.  P. 
Pouhot.     Plant     Engineering 

Has    I  >onley .    an    expe d 

W  '.  engineer,  was  assigned 
lull    tune   to   the   effort. 

Supplv   shortages  and   pi  i<  e 

in<  leases    were    expected    and 

v.  i      hoped     foi     some     relief 

through    the    work    of    the    new 

Committee.    But   we   certainly 

hdn  t  .ililn  ipate  how  drastic 
the  shortages  oi  how  astionom 
i<  al    the    pi  ii  es    would    be.    nor 

did  we  realize  how  truly  sig- 
nilic  .iiit  tin-  c  onsei \  ,i 1 1 r j 1 1  cam- 
paign could  In- 


Thanks 

To  Our  People 

It's  Working 

Energy   sav  ing   in   industry, 

just  as  at  home,  requires  the 
interest,  cooperative  under- 
standing .mil  attention  to  detail 
ot  every  one.  No  indi\  idual  or 
committee    can    do    the    job 

alone. 

We're  proud  and  apprecia- 
tive ot  the  support  all  om 
people  have  given  this  cam- 
paign. The  record  proves  it. 
such  accomplishment  is  Im- 
possible without   il 


3.  Thermostats  are  set  low- 
er, and  windows  and  ven- 
tilators are  more  carefully  con- 
trolled. Again  requiring  atten- 
tion  and   cooperation   ot   many 

people. 

I    New      expansion     joints 

weii'  installed  ill  steam  heating 
lines,     tins    piov  ides    increased 

flexibility  ot  heating  control  in 

the  plant  without  undue 
stresses  in  the  steam  piping 
sv  stem. 

5  \ew  gas  furnaces  are  de- 
signed    with     "recuperators 

which  use  hot  evli.iust  gases  to 

piehe.it  incoming  combustion 
aii  gomg  to  ili«-  furnace  burn- 
ers. They  can  reduce  gas  con- 

s pi  ion  some  15%.  I  low  ever, 

they  ie   expensive   aiu\   pre>  i 

ously  couldn't  be  justified  on  a 


These  are  some  of  the  steps 
we've  taken.  Ideas  come  from 
everywhere  and  everyone.  The 
<  ommittee  arts  as  collectoi 
and  coordinator  as  well  as  in- 
itiator. 


If  you  have  any  sugges- 
tions or  would  like  to  dis- 
cuss any  part  of  our  energy 
campaign  we  will  ap- 
preciate hearing  from  you. 
Please   get   in  touch  with  om 

Coi ittee     chairman,     Tom 

(  ,ii tin.  You  can  plume  him  .it 
839-4441     "i     write    to    him, 
Wyman-Gordon 
Company 
Worcester.  Mass.  01801. 


UIPPOMMJ 


Vol.  78,  No.  5 


February  1975 


3  On  the  hill 

4  Feedback 

6    Q:  What  does  a  liverwurst  have  in  common  with  a  blood  vessel? 

A  look  at  some  of  the  realities  of  project  work  going  on  at  the  wpi 
Internship  Center  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital 

1 4     "There  was  a  young  lady  from  Becker ..." 

The  printable  results  of  the  Pub's  recent  limerick  contest 

1 6  Dick  Whitcomb:  NASA's  aerodynamic  genius  does  it  again 

1 8  Dave  Emery  goes  to  Congress,  maybe 

20  Your  Class  and  Others 

30  Completed  Careers 

36    What's  happening  at  WPI? 

A  new  section  listing  future  events,  on  campus  and  off,  for  interested 
readers 


The  cover:  A  liverwurst  by  any  other  name  . . .  Photograph  by  the 
editor 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51 ,  chairman:  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57,  Rob- 
ert C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22; 
Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I. 
Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography:  Typesetting  Service,  Provi- 
dence, Rhode  Island 

Printing:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  edi- 
torial content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609 
(phone  61 7-753-1 411). 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Copyright  ©  1 975  by  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  Decembe/, 
February,  and  April.  Second  Class  postage 
paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Posf- 
master:  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alumni 
Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  '46 

Vice  President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  W.  A. 
Julian,  '49 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.  J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B. 
E.  Hosmer,  '61 ;  D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M. 
McNamara,  '55;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Soarcf:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.  H.  White,  '41 ;  G.  A.  Anderson,  '51 ;  H.  I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal     February  1975/1 


eH 


by  the  editor 

Do  you  suppose  there's  a 
group  rate  for 
recruiting  students? 

It  was  the  day  after  Christmas  and  Roy 
Seaberg,  '56,  was  minding  the  store  in 
the  admissions  office.  The  telephone 
rang,  with  the  question  of  whether  wpi 
could  house  and  help  teach  English  to  a 
group  of  Venezuelan  students,  spon- 
sored by  their  government,  who  would 
then  be  regular  undergraduates. 

On  January  23,  twenty  men  and  one 
woman  arrived  from  Caracas  via  New 
York.  Some  of  the  students  had  seen 
their  first  city,  Caracas,  just  the  week 
before.  None  of  them  could  speak  much 
if  any  English.  And  they  were  not  pre- 
pared for  New  England  in  the 
wintertime. 

During  the  four  weeks  between 
phone  call  and  arrival,  a  whole  program 
for  winter  and  spring  terms  was  organ- 
ized. Prof.  Donald  Johnson,  head  of  the 
Humanities  Department,  arranged  for 
Holy  Cross  professor  Charles  Tatum 
and  wpi  lecturer  Kay  Draper  to  teach 
the  Venezuelans  English,  using  Holy 
Cross's  language  laboratory  and  student 
tutors.  English  studies  will  take  up 


about  two-thirds  of  the  group's  first 
terms  at  wpi.  The  remaining  third  will 
be  a  special  section  of  Math  1010,  dif- 
ferential calculus,  taught  by  Dean  of 
Academic  Advising  John  van  Alstyne 
and  a  Peruvian  graduate  assistant.  Civil 
Engineering  professor  Allen  Benjamin, 
who  has  worked  in  South  America  and 
speaks  fluent  Spanish,  will  be  helping 
advise  the  students. 

But  now  it's  late  January  and  the 
Venezuelans  have  just  arrived.  The 
immediate  problems  fell  to  Student 
Affiars  dean  Bernard  Brown,  who  is  for- 
eign student  advisor.  Hard  at  work  over 
the  week's  end,  he  got  them  settled  into 
their  fraternity  house  rooms,  took  them 
shopping  for  coats,  boots,  gloyes,  and 
other  necessities,  and  generally  had  the 
job  of  getting  them  oriented  to  the  col- 
lege and  the  community. 

After  their  arrival,  a  number  of  the 
Venezuelans  wanted  to  send  messages 
home,  so  Dean  Brown  made  arrange- 
ments for  the  sending  of  telegrams.  A 
half-dozen  or  so  wanted  to  telephone, 
and  when  they  did  an  interesting  fact 
emerged:  a  three-minute  phone  call  to 
Venezuela  can  be  cheaper  than  a  tele- 
gram. Within  half  an  hour  the  telephone 
calls  were  all  finished.  (Editor's  note: 
sometimes  I  can  'tget  half  a  dozen  tele- 
phone connections  through  to  the  other 
side  of  Worcester  in  that  length  of  time!) 

Although  it  is  a  little  early  for  anthing 
but  first  impressions  on  either  side,  the 
Venezuelans  seem  very  determined  to 
learn  English  and  to  mix  in  with  the  rest 
of  the  students  body.  Because  of  the 
suddenness  of  the  program,  they  are 
housed  where  there  was  space  available, 
which  meant  the  fraternity  houses. 
Twelve,  for  example,  are  living  at  Theta 
Chi.  This  has  upset  a  couple  of  the  stu- 
dents, who  strongly  resist  being  segre- 


gated off  into  a  special  corner  of  the 
campus.  This  same  feeling  emerged 
when  Dean  Brown  arranged  for  them  to 
see  a  Spanish-language  film  their  first 
weekend  here,  simply  as  entertainment. 
They  expressed  concern  that  they  were 
being  isolated  from  American  culture; 
they  wanted  to  be  integrated  into  the 
campus  as  soon  as  possible. 

The  Venezuelan  government  calls 
this  undertaking  the  Programa  Gran 
Mariscal  de  Ayacucho.  It  was 
inaugurated  last  fall,  coinciding  with  the 
1 50th  anniversary  of  the  victory  which 
consolidated  the  political  independence 
of  South  America.  The  aim  of  the  pro- 
gram is  to  both  build  and  broaden  the 
base  of  educated  people  who  will  pro- 
vide Venezuela's  social  and  economic 
leadership  in  the  future.  Traditionally  in 
Venezuela,  the  elementary  and  secon- 
dary education  available  in  rural  areas 
has  lagged  behind  that  of  the  urban  cen- 
ters. Therefore,  60  percent  of  the  schol- 
arship funds  are  earmarked  for  students 
who  live  outside  Caracas,  the  capital 
city.  The  students  have  their  tuition, 
room,  and  board  paid  by  the  govern- 
ment, as  well  as  a  monthly  stipend.  It  is 
expected  that  the  students  at  wpi  will 
spend  five  years,  including  summers,  to 
achieve  English  fluency  and  receive 
their  bachelor's  degrees. 

At  present,  there  are  some  1 ,400 
Venezuelan  students  in  the  United 
States  under  the  Programa  Gran  Maris- 
cal de  Ayacucho.  About  1,000  entered 
last  summer,  and  the  remainder  in 
January. 


WPI  Journal  I  February  1975/3 


What  purpose  the  Journal? 

Editor:  I  am  pleased  to  see  wpi  publica- 
tions win  critical  acclaim.  The  recent  edi- 
tions of  the  journal  which  are  devoted  to 
energy  (and  past  articles  written  in  a  similar 
vein)  are  of  a  high  caliber  and  scholarly 
quality.  They  are  sure  to  maintain  our  high 
esteem  in  the  realm  of  college  journalism. 

However,  I  suspect  that  most  alumni 
would  prefer  a  campus  news  magazine  to  a 
technical  journal.  Perhaps  an  article 
(authored  by  a  member  of  the  Tech  commu- 
nity) about  wpi's  energy-related  programs 
might  be  more  appropriate.  Perhaps  even  an 
analysis  as  to  how  the  energy  crisis  is  affect- 
ing the  thrust  of  the  environmental  project 
work. 

More  pointedly,  is  the  main  purpose  of 
the  journal  to  elicit  greater  alumni-stu- 
dent-faculty interaction?  Or  is  the  journal 
to  serve  primarily  as  an  organ  of  continuing 
education?  Tech  alumni  can  turn  to  any  of  a 
number  of  publications  to  keep  abreast  of 
the  energy  crisis.  But  where,  other  than  to 
the  journal,  can  they  turn  for  news  of  the 
Hill? 

John  Zorabedian,  Jr.,  '72 
Editor:  After  rereading  the  latest  issue  of 
the  wpi  journal,  I  felt  compelled  to  write 
you  a  brief  congratulatory  note.  I  firmly 
believe  that  the  quality  of  this  year's  issues 
has  been  the  highest  that  I  have  ever  seen  in 
our  alumni  magazine.  The  graphics  have 
been  superb;  the  articles  much  more  selec- 
tive and  highly  interesting;  the  campus 
notes  most  informative;  and  the  alumni 
news  more  complete  than  ever. 

It  is  most  heartening  to  sec  that  the  criti- 
cisms which  were  made  by  last  year's  Com- 
mittee of  Concerned  Seniors  have  been 
taken  as  constructively  as  they  were 
intended.  Both  you  and  Ruth  Trask  were 
most  professional  about  the  entire  situation, 
and  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  DO 
commend  the  JOURNAL  Itaff. 

trdj.  lirzozmuski,  '74 
Hanover.  A'.//. 


The  energy  issue 

Editor:  My  compliments  on  the  latest  issue 
of  the  journal. 

I  found  the  focus  on  a  major  topic 
(nuclear  energy)  to  be  extremely  interesting 
and  the  type  of  format  I  would  value  highly 
in  the  future.  Thank  you  for  your  efforts. 

J.  Michael  Anderson,  '64 
New  York,  N.  Y. 
Editor:  I  am  writing  to  ask  permission  to 
reprint  the  article  by  Edward  Teller  entitled 
"Don't  sleep  with  two  women  in  your  bed" 
which  was  published  in  your  August  1974 
issue. 

We  would  like  to  include  it  in  the  forth- 
coming issue  of  Skeptic,  which  will  be 
devoted  entirely  to  the  problem  of  energy. 
Each  issue  of  Skeptic  is,  in  effect,  a  debate- 
in-print  about  a  matter  of  current  public 
concern  (see  the  issue  on  crime  which  I've 
enclosed). 

Chris tiane  Schlumberger 

Forum  for  Contemporary 

History 

Santa  Barbara,  Calif. 
Editor:  In  response  to  your  October  1974 
issue  of  "Nuclear  energy  —  the  promise  and 
the  problems,"  I  should  like  to  comment  as 
one  whose  professional  career  has  been  con- 
cerned with  the  power  option. 

The  coverage  given  by  the  contributors 
was  meaningful,  but  your  introductory 
comments  were  "right  on."  Twenty-five 
thousand  words,  or  even  twenty-five  million 
words,  can't  hack  all  the  complexities.  On 
just  one  facet  of  the  problem,  the  aec  public 
hearings  on  emergency  core  cooling  systems 
(eccs)  ran  well  over  fifty  million  words. 
One  of  the  most  vocal  participants  at 
these  hearings  was  Myron  Cherry,  whose 
article  you  have  published  and  whose  career 
is  founded  upon  an  extraordinary  ability  to 
use  words.  See  how  well  he  gets  his  points 
across  as  he  characterizes  nuclear  fission 
plants  as  "unreliable,  dangerous  and  unethi- 
cal" in  the  same  light  as  "slick  ad  campaigns 
that  tell  us  to  brush,  wash,  cook  and  make 
love  electrically."  The  man  is  absolutely 
beautiful  in  his  unabashed  use  of  outra- 
geous innuendo,  half-truth,  sarcasm,  slan- 
der —  even  winding  up  his  article  with  a  jail 


threat  for  those  responsible  "for  the  mess 
we're  in"  —  as  if  he  himself  had  nothing  to 
do  with  the  unfair  obstructionist  tactics 
which  have  cost  this  country  millions  of 
dollars  in  oil  imports  as  nuclear  plants  he 
and  his  ilk  opposed  had  to  stand  by  idly. 
In  a  debate  or  contest  with  the  highly 
articulate  opponents  of  nuclear  power,  the 
engineers  have  come  off  very  poorly  indeed. 
There  are  many  reasons  for  this,  including: 

(1)  A  disturbing  "consumerist"  public 
attitude  which  distrusts  any  leadership  in 
business,  labor  or  politics  . . .  applauding  the 
critics  of  any  "big  business"  .  . .  especially 
the  utilities.  It  takes  dedicated  leadership  to 
accomplish  a  major  nuclear  project  in  the 
face  of  the  regulatory  maze  and  wavering 
public  acceptance. 

(2)  A  great  advantage  for  those  on  the 
attack  in  a  complex  technical  subject  such  as 
nuclear  power.  Who  can  boil  down  in 
defense  the  fifty  million  words  on  eccs  for 
adequate  public  understanding,  for 
example?  It  has  been  said  that  a  fool  can  ask 
in  a  day  more  questions  than  a  wise  man 
could  answer  in  a  lifetime.  To  make  matters 
worse,  the  nuclear  oppositionists  are  no 
fools!  It  is  easy  to  create  the  impression  that 
engineers  don't  know  what  they  are  doing 
by  merely  asking  more  questions  than  can 
be  readily  answered. 

(3)  To  attempt  to  settle  technical  issues 
by  public  debate  is  idiotic.  The  articulate 
and  inflammatory  attacks  are  exciting  but 
destructive.  The  dull  truths  about  redun- 
dant engineered  safeguards  do  not  counter 
the  emotionalist's  arguments. 

(4)  Most  engineering  schools  do  not 
emphasize  enough  the  need  for  basic  com- 
munications skills.  The  engineer,  to  be 
"responsible,"  must  be  responsive  to  the 
public's  need  to  know  the  essential  facts  in 
these  technical  issues.  In  communicating 
with  the  public,  many  engineers  appear  to 
be  "talking  down"  to  the  audience  —  a 
grievous  error. 

The  dull  truth  is  that  the  nuclear  power 
option  is,  for  New  England,  just  about  the 
only  feasible  option  we  have  left  for  the  near 
term  (next  thirty  years)  for  meeting  base 
load  needs  with  reasonable  environmental 
compatibility  and  avoiding  dependence 
upon  foreign  oil  imports. 


4  iary1975     WPI  Journal 


Coal  imported  to  New  England  will  give 
us  fits  trying  to  meet  environmental  objec- 
tives. (The  "outrageous"  American  Electric 
Power  ads  debunking  S02  scrubber  tech- 
nology claims  by  epa  come  closer  to  the 
truth  than  the  dreamers  at  epa  would  have 
us  believe.) 

Long-term  solutions,  such  as  breeder 
reactors,  fusion,  or  solar  power  must  receive 
far  greater  support  than  received  to  date. 
We  must  cease  using  up  our  precious  fossil 
resources,  which  as  any  chemical  or  plastics 
engineer  will  tell  you  deserve  a  far  better 
fate  than  naming  away  as  a  boiler  fuel. 

R.  A.  Evans,  '38 
West  Hartford,  Conn. 

WPI  from  another  perspective 

Editor:  Congratulations  are  in  order  once 
more  for  wpi's  ingenuity.  Not  only  is  the 
article  in  Business  Week,  "Engineers  Learn 
by  Doing"  (August  31,  1974),  a  great 
achievement  and  an  invaluable  asset  to  the 
publication  of  wpi's  revolutionary  offer- 
ings, but  the  Alumni  Association's  idea  to 
send  reprints  to  graduates  who  may  not  see 
Business  Week  is  extremely  astute.  I  remem- 
ber hearing  and  seeing  much  short-sighted 
criticism  of  the  Plan  with  the  not-too-sound 
reasoning  that  it  would  create  affected  edu- 
cation, a  gimmick  that  would  ultimately 
attract  only  the  laziest  and  most  misdirected 
of  students  to  wpi.  The  results  of  the  first 
projects  —  indeed  merely  the  scope  and  rele- 
vance of  these  projects  —  should  make  obvi- 
ous the  point  that  the  planners  had  in  mind 
an  approach  that  would  realistically  educate 
persons  in  skilled,  applicable  engineering. 
Now  a  national  weekly  magazine  has  seen 
fit  to  make  this  innovation  more  generally 
known. 


I  have  been  engaged  in  graduate  study  at 
another  well  known  engineering  school, 
Purdue  University.  Although  I  did  not 
graduate  from  wpi  as  an  engineer  —  I  was 
honestly  disillusioned  with  the  profession, 
not  with  the  school  —  I  think  I  can  view 
other  engineering  students  with  a  critical 
eye.  The  traditional  program  of  study 
offered  to  undergraduates  here  has  very 
little  room  for  nontechnical  academic  study. 
Perhaps  the  Big  Ten  consciousness  assumes 
that  extracurricular  energies  spent  in  varsity 
athletics  should  produce  the  most  well- 
rounded  and  able  engineers;  I'm  not  sure. 
But  it  seems  it  is  Purdue's  aim  to  leave  any 
Active  engineering  —  that  is,  project  work  — 
for  its  "more  qualified"  graduate  students. 
The  percentage  of  bs  holders  who  go 
directly  from  this  university  to  jobs,  how- 
ever, is  still  quite  high.  Hence  the  general 
undergraduate  complaint  is,  under- 
standably, that  school  is  rather  meaningless, 
that  what  one  needs  to  know  about  practical 
engineering  will  come  after  one  is  hired,  in 
on-the-job  training. 

I  am  ecstatic  that  wpi  is  engaged  in  some- 
thing different.  There  you  are  making 
school  meaningful;  there  you  are  building  a 
foundation  that  will  help  bridge  the  fath- 
omless "relevancy  gap"  so  common  to  con- 
temporary education;  there  you  are  sending 
engineers  rather  than  trainees  to  occupa- 
tional positions. 

The  Bachelor  of  Science  degree  from  wpi 
is  a  document  that  truly  reflects  knowledge 
gained  in  an  educational  experience.  If  the 
criticism  of  the  Plan  has  not  turned  the 
heads  of  the  men  and  women  in  the  Ford 
Foundation,  the  National  Science  Founda- 
tion, the  Sloan  Foundation,  or  the  National 
Endowment  for  the  Humanities,  then  it  cer- 
tainly should  not  turn  the  heads  of  prospec- 
tive students  eager  to  work  in  the  field  they 
desire  to  make  their  career.  The  wpi  plan 
does  not  attract  lazy  students;  on  the  con- 
trary, it  is  a  much  more  rigorous  program  of 
study  than  the  traditional  one.  When  eval- 
uations are  perfected,  no  student  will  be 
able  to  "sneak  through"  his  or  her  project 
work  without  first  having  taken  a  wide  vari- 
ety of  preparational  courses.  And  of  course, 
these  include  ones  that  will  develop  student 
sensitivity  to  the  human  implications  of 
designing  things  for  "the  betterment  of 


humankind,"  something  that  we  all  know 
has  been  too  much  overlooked  in  the  past. 
wpi  may  be  forming  the  basis  of  a  renais- 
sance man  of  the  1970's.  Criticism  is  under- 
standable, since  it  springs  mainly  from 
those  who  have  been  selectively  conditioned 
to  respond  to  the  oversimplified  patterns  set 
by  narrow,  sterile,  and  compartmentalized 
education.  The  wpi  plan  will  last  as  long  as 
society  needs  work  done  on  it,  and  God 
knows,  that  will  be  many,  many  years. 

Robert  A.  Manes,  '73 
West  Lafayette,  Indiana 

Editor's  note:  Mr.  Manes  was  the  author  of 
"Seven  weeks  at  the  jail, "  which  appeared  in 
the  February  1973  issue  of  the  journal. 


WPI  Journal  1  February  1975/5 


Q:  What  does  a  liverwurst 
have  in  common  with 
a  blood  vessel? 


A:  More  than  you  might  think, 
especially  to 
an  enterprising  student 
and  an  imaginative  hospital 


6       'tbruary  1975     WPI  Journal 


WPI  Journal  I  February  1975  I  7 


The  delivery  men  thought  the  request  was  crazy,  and  the 
St.  Vincent  Hospital  Research  Foundation  asked  plenty 
of  questions  about  the  bill.  But  in  the  end  the  wpi  students  at 
the  hospital  received  their  thirty  liverwurst  sausages  and  St. 
Vincent  paid  for  every  one  of  them.  Thirty  liverwursts? 
Thirty?! 

"We  had  to  have  those  sausages,"  says  Bill  Penney,  '73,  who 
looks  perfectly  healthy  and  hardly  in  need  of  such  a  bizarre 
diet  supplement.  "They  were  a  necessary  part  of  our  research." 

These  days  St.  Vincent  Hospital  and  the  National  Science 
Foundation  are  supporting  a  wide  range  of  research  and  devel- 
opment being  conducted  under  the  Internship  Center  program 
established  just  three  years  ago  between  St.  Vincent  Hospital 
(svh)  and  wpi.  So  far,  some  70  students,  freshmen  to  graduate, 
from  all  areas  of  engineering  and  science,  have  been  involved. 

St.  Vincent  is  a  600-bed  community  hospital  committed  to 
medical  education.  Its  postgraduate  educational  programs 
involve  8 1  residents  taught  by  approximately  40  full-time  hos- 
pital staff  physicians,  and  it  maintains  an  active  affiliation  with 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  School. 

Four  years  ago,  the  hospital  established  a  department  of 
biomedical  engineering,  which  now  employs  two  full-time 
engineers  and  three  technicians.  Six  additional  biomedical 
engineers  are  employed  in  other  hospital  departments  and  lab- 
oratories (cardiac  catheterization  laboratory,  noninvasive  car- 
diology, clinical  pharmacology,  respiratory  diseases,  and 
vascular  research).  Clinical  and  basic  research  is  conducted  in 
several  hospital  departments  and  in  specialized  laboratories, 
including  an  animal  research  facility. 

"With  such  a  wide  range  of  facilities,  the  students  can  carry 
on  a  number  of  projects,"  says  Albert  Shahnarian,  '69,  a  gradu- 
ate teaching  assistant  and  assistant  wpi  director  of  the  Intern- 
ship Center.  Those  interested  in  finding  out  about  project 
possibilities  at  svh  are  invited  to  attend  on-going  student 
project  group  meetings  or  exploratory  meetings  if  there  is 
interest  in  developing  a  new  project  area.  Each  project  team  is 
fully  supervised.  Undergraduates  are  not  paid  for  their  project 
work,  but  pay  tuition  for  the  experience  as  they  would  pay  for 
any  other  part  of  their  education  —this  requirement  applies  for 
all  undergraduate  project  work  on  and  off  campus. 

Dr.  Walter  (  j.  Driscoll,  director  of  facilities  development 
and  biomedical  engineering  at  St.  Vincent  and  svh  director  of 
the  Internship  Center,  makes  one  point  clear,  however.  He 
Bays,  "When  we  signed  the  internship  agreement  with  wpi,  we 
were  not  looking  for  extra  hands.  The  students  are  not  work- 
ing in  daily  patient  care  but  are  assisting  us  with  medical 
research  and  development.  At  all  times  the  student  projects  are 
performed  under  the  direct  supervision  of  a  physician  and  fac- 
ulty advisors." 


At  wpi,  a  student  normally  takes  three  activities  (courses 
and  project  work)  in  each  seven-week  term.  Project  objectives 
are  denned  for  this  period  of  time.  This  helps  students  to  limit 
the  scope  of  their  project  activity  to  attainable  goals  and  gives, 
them  a  sense  of  accomplishment  at  the  end  of  the  seven-week 
term.  Most  projects  extend  for  periods  of  2 1  or  28  weeks,  with 
students  spending  the  first  seven-week  term  preparing  a 
project  proposal  and  the  final  two  or  three  terms  finishing  the 
work  and  writing  a  report. 

"It  is  essential  that  we  match  a  student  with  his  or  her  inter- 
ests and  particular  abilities  to  those  of  a  given  hospital 
project,"  says  John  R.  Boyd,  '70,  a  biomedical  engineer  and 
assistant  svh  director  of  the  Internship  Center.  Once  a  proper 
match  is  achieved,  the  student  team  prepares  a  project  pro- 
posal detailing  the  objectives  of  the  investigation,  the  meth- 
ods, materials  and  equipment  necessary,  a  critical  path  analysis 
and  a  statement  of  the  final  anticipated  result.  This  proposal  is 
then  jointly  approved,  based  upon  its  educational  merits  and 
its  value  to  the  hospital  departments.  During  the  past  three 
years  the  development  of  common  research  goals  among  wpi 
faculty,  students,  and  svh  physicians  has  become  evident. 

"Our  association  with  svh  has  given  our  biomedical  engi- 
neering students  the  proper  clinical  environment  in  which  to 
work,"  explains  Prof.  Robert  A.  Peura,  '64,  who  serves  as 
director  of  the  center.  "Law  clerks  and  medical  interns  have 
traditionally  benefited  from  practical  training  under  the  super- 
vision of  a  senior  member  of  the  profession  prior  to  assuming 
full  job  responsibility.  Now,  at  St.  Vincent,  biomedical  engi- 
neering students  have  that  same  opportunity. 

"The  greatest  benefit  has  undoubtedly  been  the  educational 
stimulus  to  the  students,"  says  Dr.  Peura.  By  involving  stu- 
dents in  the  solution  of  real  medical  problems,  the  program 
motivates  students  to  master  an  area  of  engineering  or  science 
because  they  have  an  immediate,  specific  use  for  it,  and  they 
experience  the  satisfaction  of  using  this  knowledge  to  help 
solve  a  problem  relevant  to  human  needs. 


"There  is  an  added  incentive  for 
those  of  us  from  wpi  to  make  this 
project  work,  because  it  is  a 
perfect  example  of  a  project 
relating  technology  to  the  needs  of 
society." 


8  „Hy1975     WPI  Journal 


Bill  Penney  (who  requested  the  sausages)  was  so  stimu- 
lated by  his  undergraduate  research  that  he  is  now  a  grad- 
uate student  in  biomedical  engineering.  He  has  been  working 
with  Dr.  H.  Brownell  Wheeler,  chief  of  surgery  at  St.  Vincent, 
in  the  development  of  a  device  measuring  electrical  impedance 
to  detect  blood  clots  in  major  veins.  "It  is  the  type  of  device 
that  could  have  been  used  in  the  diagnosis  of  Richard  Nixon's 
recent  illness,"  reports  Penney.  "The  potential  looks  promis- 
ing. So  far  the  device  has  had  over  95  percent  success  in  detect- 
ing serious  blood  clots." 

In  order  to  obtain  experimental  data  on  the  relationship 
between  change  in  fluid  volume  and  in  impedance  variation,  he 
designed  experiments  which  used  a  sausage  as  a  close  approxi- 
mation to  the  human  leg,  in  both  dimensions  and  electrical 
impedance. 

"It  was  at  Dr.  Wheeler's  suggestion  that  I  decided  to  use 
sausages,"  Penney  says,  "but  I  didn't  know  what  kind.  I 
couldn't  ask  my  parents'  advice,  because  they're  vegetarians. 
My  grandmother  isn't,  though,  and  she  told  me  to  use 
liver  wur  st." 

After  getting  the  liverwursts,  Penney  bored  holes  in  them  to 
simulate  blood  vessels.  The  holey  sausages  were  then  filled 
with  saline  solutions  ("we  tried  using  blood;  it  worked  but  it 
was  terrible!")  while  changes  in  impedance  were  monitored. 
Results  correlated  quite  well  with  Penney's  theoretical 
analyses. 

After  being  initially  exposed  to  vascular  research  as  a  senior 
in  electrical  engineering,  Penney  started  a  basic  investigation 
into  the  source  of  the  signal  measured  by  the  impedance  ple- 
thysmograph  (a  device  which  measures  changes  in  volume). 
He  concluded  after  researching  the  literature  that  many  clini- 
cal researchers  had  accepted  early  work  in  the  field  without 
critical  review. 

He  decided  to  establish  an  electrical  field  model  of  the 
human  calf,  developing  competence  in  electrical  field  theory 
by  working  with  wpi  physics  professor  Lorenzo  Narducci. 
Later  he  developed  sophisticated  and  effective  experimental 
techniques  in  order  to  validate  his  model. 

Weekly  group  meetings  impressed  upon  him  the  need  for 
well-written  project  proposals  and  progress  reports.  He  for- 
mulated a  critical  approach  through  responsible  questioning  of 
project  proposals  presented  at  the  weekly  meetings.  Because 
his  theoretical  predictions  and  experimental  results  agreed 
reasonable  well,  he  proved  to  himself  that  he  could  success- 
fully apply  engineering  techniques  to  the  solution  of  clinical 
problems. 

His  interest  in  his  work  was  aroused  and  he  decided  to  con- 
tinue as  a  biomedical  engineering  graduate  student.  Penney's 
work  has  been  accepted  for  presentation  and  publication  at  a 
biomedical  engineering  meeting  and  he  is  co-author  of  an 
article  currently  in  the  medical  literature. 


It  appears  that  his  work  at  the  Internship  Center  has  not 
only  been  educationally  worthwhile,  but  has  also  resulted  in 
tangible  scientific  accomplishments  which  have  motivated  him 
to  pursue  further  graduate  study  and  will  broaden  his  career 
opportunities.  In  addition  to  furthering  his  technical  knowl- 
edge, Penney  has  developed  leadership  skills  and  assumed  the 
role  of  project  manager.  He  initiated  a  National  Science  Foun- 
dation (nsf)  Student  Originated  Studies  Grant  and  success- 
fully directed  nine  students  last  summer  in  the  vascular 
research  laboratory.  The  nsf  study,  involving  students  from 
Holy  Cross,  Clark,  and  wpi,  investigated  the  feasibility  of 
detecting  disorders  of  arterial  flow  in  the  leg  by  means  of 
impedance  plethysmography. 


"It  was  at  Dr.  Wheeler's  suggestion 
that  I  decided  to  use  sausages,  but 
I  didn't  know  what  kind.  I  couldn't 
ask  my  parents,  because  they're 
vegetarians.  My  grandmother, 
though,  told  me  to  use  liverwurst." 


GRADUATE  STUDENT  FREDERICK  A.  ANDERSON,  JR.,  has 
been  involved  in  a  related  project,  the  calibration  of  the 
volume/ impedance  apparatus  for  measurements  of  blood  flow 
in  veins.  Simultaneous  volume  measurements  employing 
mechanical  and  electrical  devices  were  performed  on  the 
calves  of  nine  subjects.  Analysis  showed  a  linear  relationship 
between  venous  blood  volume  and  electrical  impedance. 

Other  students  are  finding  the  internship  program  reward- 
ing. For  example,  Albert  E.  Barrett  and  Robert  A.  Duris,  both 
seniors  last  year  developed  a  telemetry  system  for  remote 
monitoring  of  the  human  respiratory  rate.  They  created  and 
refined  a  prototype  system  in  which  a  pair  of  eyeglasses  worn 
by  the  patient  broadcasts  his  respiratory  signals  to  an  fm  radio. 

This  project  was  based  on  the  principle  that  the  difference  in 
temperature  between  the  inhaled  and  exhaled  air  of  a  person  is 
sufficient  to  cause  a  significant  resistance  change  in  a  small 
thermistor.  According  to  Barrett,  the  device  was  designed  to 
measure  the  number  of  breaths  per  minute  of  a  respiratory 
patient  who  is  ambulatory.  "If  the  patient  should  suddenly 
stop  breathing,  an  alarm  would  immediatley  be  sent  out  to  the 
nurse  on  duty  at  a  central  monitoring  board,"  he  explains.  By 
utilizing  such  a  respiratory  monitoring  system,  an  ambulatory 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1975/9 


patient  would  have  much  more  freedom  to  move  about.  He 
wouldn't  have  to  be  confined  to  his  bed  by  wires.  The  eyeglass 
monitor  may  also  be  used  as  a  testing  aid  for  the  hospital's  res- 
piratory laboratory. 

Barrett,  who  has  been  working  for  six  months,  writes:  "The 
experience  I  gained  working  on  the  respiratory  monitoring 
project  has  helped  me  out  in  my  job  as  an  engineer  at  Pratt  and 
Whitney  Aircraft  more  than  any  single  course  I  took." 

Dr.  Howard  Schwartz,  director  of  emergency  medicine  at 
svh,  wpi's  Dr.  Romeo  Moruzzi,  Dr.  Peura,  and  Mr.  Shahna- 
rian  are  supervising  a  group  of  eight  students  who  are  cur- 
rentiy  looking  at  the  whole  question  of  the  emergency  medical 
system  for  all  of  Worcester  County.  "This  involves  real  team- 
work on  the  part  of  everyone  involved,"  says  Peura:  "the  stu- 
dents, physicians,  advisors,  and  the  patients  themselves.  Also," 
he  adds,  "there  is  an  added  incentive  for  those  of  us  from  wpi 
to  make  this  particular  project  work,  because  it  is  a  perfect 
example  of  a  project  which  relates  technology  to  the  needs  of 
society." 


They  created  and  refined  a  system 
in  which  a  pair  of  eyeglasses  worn 
by  a  patient  broadcasts  his 
respiratory  signals  to  an  fm  radio. 


Presently  several  students  are  working  with  the  department 
of  emergency  medicine  to  investigate  specific  aspects  of  the 
emergency  medicine  outpatient  system  in  order  to  build  a  data 
base  to  model  the  complex  interactions  of  the  system.  Part  of 
this  group  is  analyzing  the  operations  of  the  emergency  room 
through  the  eyes  of  the  patient.  A  second  group  is  preparing  a 
procedure  for  collecting  accident  data  with  respect  to  location, 
ambulance,  time,  type  of  emergency,  and  so  forth.  The  legal 
and  ethical  aspects  of  emergency  care  are  being  studied  by  a 
third  group.  The  fourth  group  is  looking  at  the  socioeconomic 
level  of  patients  using  the  svh  emergency  department. 

In  most  cases  the  information  that  the  students  are  seeking 
is  largely  nonexistent,  yet  it  is  necessary  in  order  to  begin  to 
understand  the  complexities  of  the  system.  As  the  current  stu- 
dent groups  complete  their  project  objectives,  it  is  expected 
that  new  students  will  continue  to  develop  the  emergency 
medical  system  model  for  the  county. 


"Actually,"  Dr.  Peura  reports,  "the  emergency  medical  sys- 
tem project  grew  out  of  an  earlier  project  working  with  Dr. 
Steven  Ayres,  chief  of  medicine,  concerning  the  implementa- 
tion of  a  community  coronary  ambulance  system.  This  shows 
how  student  interest  grows  and  new  ideas  for  viable  projects 
are  born." 

Some  other  recent  wpi-svh  projects  are  biotelemetry,  using 
a  hospital  carrier-current  system,  design  of  an  arterial-venous 
shunt,  and  the  programmed  move  of  clinical  laboratories  into 
the  new  Rose  Building  so  as  to  cause  minimum  disruption  of 
service. 

Current  projects  include  hospital  training  through  video- 
tape, membrane  properties  of  irreversible  and  reversible  sickle 
cells  in  sickle-cell  anemia,  and  photomicroscopy. 

"As  you  can  see,"  Dr.  Peura  points  out,  "a  wide  range  of 
projects  is  available.  But  nothing  remains  stable.  New  ideas 
come  along  all  the  time."  For  example,  a  vascular  research  data 
base  is  being  developed  by  William  D.  Cunningham,  '77, 
because  there  was  a  need  to  analyze  statistically  the  patient 
data  record  at  St.  Vincent's  vascular  research  laboratories.  The 
object  of  this  project  is  to  develop  a  data  base  and  Fortran  pro- 
grams so  that  the  information  processing  and  handling  will  be 
more  efficient. 

Two  graduate  students  have  promising  projects  underway. 
Bruce  Haffty  is  investigating  the  possibility  of  developing  a 
noninvasive  technique  for  the  early  detection  of  pulmonary 
edema.  Charles  Pritchard,  '73,  is  working  on  the  development 
of  automated  computer  analysis  of  electrocardiograms. 

Margaret  St.  John,  '75,  has  been  using  two  electron  micro- 
scopes for  her  project,  the  observation  of  colon  cells.  She  pre- 
pared colon  biopsies  for  wpi's  scanning  electron  microscope, 
observed  and  photographed  them,  and  then  sectioned  them  for 
a  look  via  svh's  transmission  microscope.  Dr.  Jerome  Jacobs 
of  the  Pathology  Department  says,  "This  allows  observation 
of  the  same  cell  structure  by  two  methods,  one  in  which  the 
cell  surface  is  observed,  and  the  second  where  the  internal  fine 
structure  can  be  seen." 

Robert  L.  Fried,  '75,  a  physics  student,  is  studying  the 
effects  of  silicone  implants  in  rats  who  are  exposed  to 
x-rays.  This  has  significant  medical  application  in  the  manage- 
ment of  breast  cancer  because  x-ray  therapy  is  complicated  in 
patients  who  have  existing  silicone  breast  prostheses.  Chronic 
irradiation  of  these  patients  imposes  risks.  Fried  is  working 
with  two  groups  of  rats,  a  control  plus  a  second  group  with  sili- 
cone implants,  which  are  irradiated  five  days  a  week  with  a 
controlled  dose  of  x-rays.  The  rats'  temperatures  are  recorded 
daily  to  detect  any  induced  fever. 


At  right,  Bob  Fried  prepares  to  anesthetize  one 
of  his  experimental  silicone-implanted  rats 
prior  to  irradiation. 


10     February  1975     WPI  Journal 


Q23 


m  ar 


The  test  the  students  helped 
devise  is  now  a  standard  clinical 
lab  procedure  available  to  any 
patient  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital. 


Oliver  J.  Smith,  '75,  recently  assisted  with  the  development 
of  a  respiratory  sound  recording  system  he  calls  the  listening 
post.  A  portable  electronic  system  was  designed  and  built  to 
provide  a  dual-channel  signal  for  magnetic  tape  recording, 
with  playback  at  a  later  time  for  clinical  use. 

During  the  past  three  years,  the  time  and  facilities 
invested  in  the  internship  program  have  produced  a 
good  return  to  svh  in  terms  of  useful  and  practical  work;  the 
technical  base  of  the  hospital  has  been  broadened  significantly. 
For  example,  the  students  in  the  vascular  research  laboratory 
were  greatly  motivated  by  the  opportunity  to  work  on  a  prob- 
lem clearly  related  to  patient  needs.  They  validated  concepts 
behind  the  measurement  of  venous  outflow  obstruction  in 
order  to  detect  the  presence  of  clots.  The  test  they  helped 
devise  has  now  been  adopted  by  the  hospital  as  a  standard  fee- 
for-service  clinical  laboratory  procedure  available  to  any 
patient  at  St.  Vincent  Hospital,  svh  has  also  benefited  in  other 
ways.  Major  equipment  at  wpi  has  become  available  for  medi- 
cal use,  such  as  the  scanning  electron  microscope  and  the  com- 
puter facilities. 

"The  research  projects  have  been  of  value  to  the  wpi  faculty 
advisors,  too,"  relates  Shahnarian.  "The  advisors,  through  the 
projects,  have  been  exposed  to  new  applications  of  engineering 
and  science  in  medical  fields."  An  exchange  of  ideas  occurs 


repeatedly  between  the  engineering  and  medical  professions  in 
the  joint  projects.  There  have  been  occasions  when  the  advi- 
sors had  to  study  as  hard  and  learn  as  much  as  the  students. 

In  general,  the  directors  and  advisors  feel  that  the  students 
have  benefited  most  of  all  from  the  wpi-svh  Internship  Center. 
The  program  has  broadened  them  educationally  by  giving 
them  the  experience  of  relating  their  technical  knowledge  to 
actual  problems  of  clinical  medicine.  They  have,  for  the  most 
part,  accepted  the  challenge  willingly  and  responded  with 
ingenuity  and  enthusiasm. 

Observers  of  the  program  believe  that  it  helps  students 
develop  foresightedness,  sophistication,  self-confidence,  ana- 
lytical competence,  creative  imagination,  perseverance,  and 
managerial  skills.  These  attitudes  and  skills  are  difficult,  if  not 
impossible,  to  impart  in  the  context  of  a  traditional  classroom 
course. 

Projects  have  helped  students  to  direct  their  orientation 
toward  further  education  at  both  the  undergraduate  and  grad- 
uate levels.  Many  students  without  any  apparent  career  direc- 
tion have  formalized  specific  plans  for  additional  education  in 
biomedical  engineering  or  employment  in  the  health-care 
field. 

The  wpi-svh  Internship  Center  has  also  proved  useful  for 
students  entering  other  disciplines.  It  gives  students  an  oppor- 
tunity to  apply  themselves  in  a  complex  environment  where 
the  challenges  are  more  than  technical  in  nature.  They  learn  to 
work  with  and  through  others,  to  accomplish  specific  objec- 
tives —  a  prime  prerequisite  for  success  in  any  discipline,  any 
vocation. 

Bill  Penney,  one  of  the  first  students  to  undertake  research 
at  the  center,  feels  that  for  him  learning  to  communicate  was 
the  most  rewarding  aspect  of  the  program.  "There  is  a  con- 
stant interplay  of  technical  and  medical  ways  of  thinking  at  the 
center,"  he  relates.  "Everybody  is  working  toward  the  same 
goal  from  a  different  viewpoint  on  each  project.  It's  really 
interesting."  I1IPI 


12     February  197b     WPI  Journal 


WPI  Journal  I  February  1975  /  13 


There  was  a  young  lady  from  Becker...' 


One  October  afternoon  the  Goat's  Head  Pub  resem- 
bled, at  least  a  little,  a  poetry  festival.  The  occasion  was  a 
limerick  contest,  with  free  beer  offered  as  an  inducement  for 
students  and  faculty  to  participate. 

Well,  you  know  how  it  is  with  limericks.  We  both  know  that 
I  can't  possibly  print  in  this  magazine  the  best  ones.  There 
does  seem  to  be  something  inherent  in  the  tradition  of  limerick 
writing  that  ensures  that  at  least  50  percent  of  all  limericks  are 
dirty.  And  there  were  several  real  gems  produced  in  the  pub 
that  day  which  will  go  unpublished  here. 

The  selection  of  "verse"  that  follows  omits  several  prize 
winners:  the  "sickest,"  the  "most  pessimistic,"  and  an  honor- 
able mention  for  "worst  spelled"  —  one  which  also  didn't  seem 
to  make  any  sense.  Because  of  the  free  beer  offer,  a  surprising 
number  of  limerick  writers  copped  out  by  ending  on  one  varia- 
tion or  another  of  "So  now  let's  have  my  free  beer."  These 
were  deemed  unworthy  of  perpetuation. 


There  once  was  a  coed  of  Worcester 
Who  dreamt  that  a  Techie  sedorcester. 

She  awoke  with  a  scream, 

But  'twas  only  a  dream; 
A  bump  in  the  mattress  had  gorcester. 

We  all  know  a  guy  named  van-A 
Who  invented  a  special  new  way 

The  grades  are  all  missin' 

With  open  admission: 
It  you  flunk  out  you  still  have  to  pay. 


There  once  was  a  school  with  a  Plan 
For  building  the  Renaissance  Man. 
But  the  Plan  didn't  work, 
So  the  school  built  a  jerk, 
Then  took  his  tuition  and  ran. 


("funniest") 


("most  optimistic") 


There  once  was  a  thing  called  the  Plan 
Which  required  a  certain  elan 

But  the  students  and  staff 

Didn't  have  it  by  half 
And  what  is  left  is  incredibly  bland. 


14     February  1975     WPI  Journal 


There  was  a  Recondo  named  Knute 
Who  loved  above  all  things  to  shoot. 

When  closing  in  for  the  kill 

Of  afroshon  the  hill, 
Knute  misfired  and  blew  up  the  Tute. 


There  is  a  professor  named  Lance 

Which  conveniently  rhymes  well  with  "pants' 

But  since  he's  the  judge 

I'll  just  say  "Oh  fudge!" 
But  after  more  beer  I  might  take  the  chance. 

There  is  a  professor  named  Ollie 

Who  walks  around  campus  quite  slowly. 

But  whenever  he's  here 

He'll  be  drinking  a  beer 
And  smoking  cigars  that  smell  moldy. 


and  finally: 

A  lazy  young  Techie  named  Funt 
Most  always  decided  to  punt. 

While  writing  this  rhyme 

He  ran  out  of  time 


In  an  effort  to  be  innovative 
Tech  tries  to  make  us  creative. 
They  first  gave  us  Broc 
And  to  finish  their  schlock 
Use  limericks  to  be  humilitative. 


A  number  of  students  took  on  faculty  members  in  their 
versification: 

Wilbur  Bridgman's  been  here  for  a  while. 
At  teaching  chemistry  he  has  style; 

With  his  eyes  on  the  floor 

And  mine  on  the  door 
He  should  be  an  expert  on  tile. 


But  let's  not  let  it  end  there.  How  about  some  alumni  contribu- 
tions: for  each  limerick  published,  the  journal  will  award  one 
(1)  free  beer  at  the  pub  on  the  occasion  of  your  next  visit  to 
campus.  Entries  should  be  related  to  wpi,  and  though  I  prom- 
ise to  enjoy  all  funny  dirty  limericks  I  probably  won't  print 
them.  Criteria,  obviously,  are  good  taste  and  good  humor,  the 
deadline  for  entries  is  April  1 5 .  You  may  use  the  enclosed  card 
for  this  if  you  wish. 

-R.K. 


WPI  Journal  /  February  1975  I  15 


Dick  Whitcomb: 

nasa's  aerodynamic  genius 

does  it  again. 


L\sr  December  1  3th  was  Friday  the  1 3th  for  everybody 
/  else,  but  for  Dr.  Richard  T.  Whitcomb,  '43,  it  was  just 
another  lucky  day.  Another  day,  another  award. 

On  that  particular  date,  Dr.  Whitcomb  was  presented  with 
the  Wright  Brothers  Memorial  Trophy  for  1974  at  a  special 
ceremony  held  in  Washington,  D.C.  The  citation  was  given  by 
the  National  Aeronautic  Association  in  recognition  of  his  sig- 
nificant contributions  in  advancing  the  science  of  aeronautics 
in  this  country  and  abroad.  Earlier,  in  June,  he  had  received  a 
525,000  cash  award  from  the  National  Aeronautics  and  Space 
Administration,  the  largest  single  cash  award  ever  given  to  a 
nasa  employee. 

In  October  of  1973  President  Nixon  presented  him  with  the 
National  Medal  of  Science,  the  nation's  highest  honorary  sci- 
entific award. 

"The  National  Medal  has  to  be  the  honor  that  pleases  me 
most,"  Dr.  Whitcomb  reports.  "Of  course  I  am  very  happy 
about  the  Wright  Brothers  Trophy,  but  the  National  Medal 
has  a  special  meaning  for  me." 

Dr.  Whitcomb  also  won  the  prestigious  Collier  Trophy  for 
the  "greatest  achievement  in  aviation  in  America"  in  1954;  the 
Exceptional  Service  Medal  of  the  Air  Force  in  1955;  the  first 
Distinguished  Service  Medal  to  be  presented  by  the  National 
Advisory  Committee  for  Aeronautics  (nasa's  predecessor)  in 
1956;  the  U.S.  Junior  Chamber  of  Commerce  Award  desig- 
nating him  as  one  of  the  ten  outstanding  young  men  in  Amer- 
ica, also  in  1956;  the  nasa  Scientific  Achievement  Medal  and 
the  Sylvanus  Albert  Reed  Award  from  the  American  Institute 
of  Aeronautics  and  Astronautics  (aiaa)  in  1969.  He  was 
elected  a  Fellow  of  aiaa  in  1971.  At  35,  he  was  one  of  the 
youngest  people  ever  to  receive  an  honorary  doctor  of  engi- 
neering degree  from  WPI. 

It  was  considerably  more  than  luck  that  brought  this  parade 
ot  awards  to  1  )r.  W'hitcomb's  doorstep.  An  internationally 
known  aerodynamicist,  his  research  contributing  to  the 
advancement  of  flight  in  the  United  States  was  what  earned 
him  the  honors. 


After  graduating  "with  high  distinction"  from  wpi  in  1943 
and  receiving  the  degree  of  bachelor  of  science  in  mechanical 
(aeronautical)  engineering,  he  joined  the  staff  of  Langley 
Research  Center  in  Hampton,  Va.  In  1956  he  was  appointed 
head  of  the  8-Foot  Tunnels  Branch  of  Uangley's  High  Speed 
Aircraft  Division.  He  undertook  the  responsibility  of  super- 
vising the  development  of  means  for  improving  aerodynamic 
performance  of  aircraft  at  transonic  speeds  and  the  practical 
application  of  these  improvements  to  specific  aircraft. 

In  1952  he  discovered  and  later  experimentally  verified  a 
revolutionary  aircraft  design  concept  called  the  area  rule.  This 
is  a  method  of  designing  aircraft  to  reduce  drag  and  increase 
speed  without  the  addition  of  power.  The  resulting  "coke 
bottle"  shape  fuselage  is  now  incorporated  into  every  Ameri- 
can supersonic  airplane. 

Dr.  Whitcomb  also  invented  the  nasa's  supercritical  wing, 
conceived  at  Langley  as  a  result  of  wind  tunnel  studies  con- 
ducted during  the  late  1960's.  The  wing  has  been  tested  in 
flight  at  nasa's  Flight  Research  Center,  Edwards,  Calif.,  on  a 
modified  F-8  jet  fighter  aircraft.  If  successfully  applied  to 
future  aircraft,  particularly  to  commercial  jet  transports,  the 
wing  offers  the  promise  of  improved  performance  and  effi- 
ciency in  cruise  flight  close  to  the  speed  of  sound,  nasa  antici- 
pates that  subsonic  performance  gains  will  be  possible  through 
use  of  the  wing  on  supersonic  military  aircraft. 

Both  the  experts  and  the  commercial  airlines  agree  about  the 
potential  of  the  Whitcomb  wing.  It  has  been  estimated  that 
through  the  use  of  the  wing,  the  improved  performance  could 
save  the  airline  industry  $300  million  a  year  in  fuel  bills  alone. 
However,  the  airlines  aren't  rushing  out  to  have  planes  built 
equipped  with  the  new  wing.  Not  because  it  has  any  known 
defects.  It's  been  thoroughly  tested.  But  the  industry  has  been 
hurt  by  spiraling  fuel  prices  and  oil  shortages.  In  order  to  save 
that  $300  million  in  fuel  annually,  the  airlines  would  have  to 
shell  out  many  more  millions  for  planes  with  the  supercritical 
wing.  The  experts  say  that  it  will  probably  take  at  least  five 


16  nry197S     WPIJournal 


years  and  the  loss  of  over  $  1  billion  in  fuel  that  could  have 
been  saved,  before  planes  with  the  Whitcomb  wing  will  be  in 
use.  "If  fuel  prices  skyrocket  again  or  if  there's  another  Arab 
oil  embargo,  the  airlines  might  consider  equipping  their  old 
planes  with  the  new  wing,"  says  Dr.  Whitcomb. 

The  Whitcomb-designed  wing  helped  to  solve  a  problem 
that  had  troubled  aeronautical  engineers  for  years.  When  sub- 
sonic planes  reached  their  maximum  speed  of  over  600  miles 
per  hour,  they  experienced  drag  and  buffeting  and  a  loss  of  sta- 
bility. Air  moving  over  the  wing's  upper  surface  reached 
supersonic  speeds  while  the  plane  was  traveling  at  a  slower 
rate.  To  minimize  these  problems,  the  planes  were  flown  at 
slower  speeds  which  decreased  their  performance  and 
efficiency. 

Dr.  Whitcomb  admits  that  he  is  no  mathematical  genius  and 
reports  that  he  relied  mainly  on  his  intuition  in  searching  for 
an  answer.  He  experimented  with  a  wing  that  had  a  flatter 
upper  surface.  Wind  tunnel  tests  indicated  that  the  redesigned 
wing  slowed  down  airflow.  As  a  result,  there  was  less  drag  and 
buffeting.  It  would  ultimately  mean  more  aircraft  stability  at 
transonic  speeds. 


Currently  Dr.  Whitcomb  serves  as  head  of  the  Transonic 
Aerodynamics  Branch  in  Langley's  High-Speed  Aircraft 
Division.  And  it  looks  as  though  he  intends  to  stay  there,  in 
spite  of  tantalizing  offers  from  the  aircraft  industry. 

"We  researchers  have  what  we  like  at  Langley,"  he  says. 
"Independence.  In  private  industry  you  can't  think  ahead  and 
you  have  to  worry  about  contracts." 

It  was  this  kind  of  dedication  that  enabled  Dr.  Whitcomb  to 
become  one  of  the  top  aerodynamicists  in  the  world.  It  was 
also  one  of  the  reasons  why  he  was  the  recipient  of  his  latest 
award,  the  coveted  Wright  Brothers  Memorial  Trophy,  given 
for  "significant  public  service  of  enduring  value  to  aviation  in 
the  United  States." 

The  trophy,  a  miniature  silver  replica  of  the  original  Wright 
brothers'  airplane,  was  presented  to  Dr.  Whitcomb  at  the 
Wright  Brothers  Memorial  Dinner  in  Washington  last 
December.  On  one  of  his  many  lucky  days.  Friday,  the  1 3th. 

UIPI 


WPI  Journal  I  February  1975     17 


Dave  Emery 
goes  to 
Congress, 
maybe . . . 


The  original  title  of  this  article  was  "Dave  Emery  goes  to  Con- 
gress: You  can  get  therefrom  here.  "And  when  we  wrote  it  in 
early  December,  that  did  appear  to  be  the  case.  At  press  time, 
however,  with  about  12,000  contested  votes  involved  in  a  suit  by 
Emery's  opponent,  no  one  knows  who  will  be  finally  seated  in  the 
House,  and  there  is  some  possibility  that  the  issue  won 't  be  settled 
until  June. 

So  as  not  to  lose  time,  Emery  has  moved  to  Washington  and 
begun  putting  together  his  staff.  His  opponent,  of  course,  is 
already  ensconced  there.  But  regardless  of  the  final  outcome  of 
the  election,  we  think  you  '11  find  Dave  Emery's  story  interesting, 
so  we  're  printing  it  the  way  we  originally  wrote  it,  with  only  this 
introductory  disclaimer. 


You  would  expect  that  wpi's  first  alumnus  to  be  elected  to 
the  U.S.  Congress  would  most  likely  be  a  liberal  Demo- 
crat with  plenty  of  financial  backing.  It  would  almost  go  with- 
out saying  that  he  was  middle-aged  and  professionally 
prominent  in  business,  legal,  or  industrial  circles.  Almost. 

David  F.  Emery,  '70,  of  Rockland,  elected  last  November 
from  Maine's  First  Congressional  District,  should  be  all  of 
those  things.  In  fact,  he  is  none  of  them.  He  is  a  conservative, 
26-year-old  Republican  who  turned  a  shoestring  campaign 
against  a  four-term  Democratic  incumbent  into  a  ticket  to 
Capitol  Hill.  And  as  for  his  being  professionally  prominent . . . 
"My  only  jobs  since  graduating  from  wpi  have  been  part-time 
ambulance  driving  and  doing  electronics  work  for  a  friend,"  he 
reports. 


David  Emery  hasn't  had  time  to  pursue  another  career. 
While  still  an  undergraduate  electrical  engineering  student  at 
wpi,  he  entered  the  primaries  to  represent  Rockland  in  the 
state  legislature  and  defeated  a  22-year  incumbent  by  a  vote  of 
nearly  2  to  1.  He  had  no  Democratic  opponent  in  that  1970 
election,  but  he  went  on  to  win  the  seat  again  in  1972. 

Besides  representing  his  constituents,  Emery  decided  to 
actively  seek  Maine's  First  District  Congressional  seat  last 
year.  Financially,  his  campaign  was  a  trial  from  the  start.  He 
came  to  be  known  as  the  most  poverty-stricken  candidate  run- 
ning for  any  major  Maine  office. 

Emery,  a  bachelor  who  lives  with  his  mother,  estimates  that 
in  1973  he  earned  about  $7,000  with  more  than  half  coming 
from  legislative  service  and  the  rest  from  his  part-time  jobs. 
Last  year  he  subsisted  almost  entirely  on  his  legislative  pay. 

"I  still  had  $1,000  in  the  bank  last  January,"  he  recalls,  "but 
by  September  there  was  only  about  $5  left."  Eventually  he  had 
to  borrow  $2,500  to  live  on  and  $2,000  more  for  campaign 
expenses.  His  largest  contributions  were  two  $500  donations 
and  a  $3,000  down  payment  on  the  state  GOP's  pledge. 

After  looking  at  the  state  of  his  general  finances,  Emery 
decided  to  wage  a  "Walking  to  Congress"  campaign.  Shoe 
leather,  after  all,  costs  less  than  TV  time.  "Besides,  it  was  a 
poor  year  to  ask  anyone  to  invest  in  a  Republican  politician," 
Emery  admits  wryly.  So  he  walked  some  600  miles  around  his 
district,  rang  200  doorbells  a  day,  and  shook  over  16,000 
hands.  "The  shoe-leather  technique  wasn't  a  gimmick,  either," 
he  says.  "Walking  is  the  only  way  you  can  get  to  know  the 
people." 

One  of  the  most  amazing  facts  that  he  learned  from  his  cam- 
paign was  that  most  of  the  people  who  shook  his  hand  had 
never  met  a  politician  before  in  their  lives.  Evidently  the 
people  liked  what  they  saw  in  politician  Dave  Emery.  In  half 
an  hour  as  he  trekked  down  one  Main  Street,  four  strangers 
volunteered  to  work  on  his  campaign.  Everywhere  along  the 
route  he  and  his  small  staff  were  offered  refreshments. 

Emery  took  his  people-to-people  campaign  right  to  the  vot- 
ers' doorsteps.  Nearly  every  day  he  rang  200  doorbells.  If  any- 
one answered,  he'd  say,  "Hi!  I'm  Dave  Emery,  running  for 
Congress  against  Peter  Kyros.  Just  wanted  to  come  by  and  say 
hello."  If  nobody  was  at  home,  he'd  scribble  a  "Sorry  I  missed 
you"  note  and  leave  it  inside  the  screen  door.  "When  they  got 
back  home  at  night,  they  all  knew  I'd  been  to  see  them  ...  in 
person,"  he  recalls.  On  November  5,  the  shoestring  walking 
campaign  paid  off  as  he  managed  to  squeak  by  his  four-term 
Democratic  opponent  by  a  few  hundred  votes. 

Emery  feels  his  political  drive  came  from  his  grandmother. 
Sarah  Philbrick  of  Rockland,  now  in  her  90's,  often  discussed 
political  affairs  with  her  grandson  when  he  was  scarcely  more 
than  a  toddler.  Although  she  was  never  active  in  politics  her- 
self, her  interest  in  the  subject  was  passed  along  to  willing  ears. 


Back  in  1956,  when  he  was  only  eight  years  old,  Emery's 
budding  political  interest  in  Eisenhower  stirred  him  to  stay  up 
past  his  bedtime  with  a  radio  tucked  beneath  his  blanket  so  he 
could  find  out  how  his  hero  was  faring  in  the  election  returns. 
At  13  he  knocked  on  doors  in  Rockland  as  a  Teen- Age 
Republican  (tar.)  Later  he  became  tar's  First  Congressional 
District  chairman.  While  at  wpi,  he  was  adviser  to  Worcester 
County  Young  Republicans.  He  also  served  as  a  campaign 
worker  for  Massachusetts'  former  governor  John  Volpe  and 
Senator  Edward  Brooke. 

What  really  channeled  him  into  a  political  career  was  his 
stint  as  a  page  at  the  gop  national  convention  in  Miami  Beach 
in  the  summer  of  1968.  "That  was  right  after  my  sophomore 
year  at  wpi,"  he  remembers.  "I'll  never  forget  that  summer  as 
long  as  I  live.  The  convention  was  the  most  exciting  thing  that 
ever  happened  to  me." 

As  he  watched  the  senators  and  congressmen  walk  through 
his  hotel  lobby,  he  decided  then  and  there  to  run  for  office  dur- 
ing the  next  election.  The  opportunity  cam  up  in  1 970,  when 
he  was  a  senior  at  wpi.  By  spending  his  weekends  in  Maine 
politicking,  and  directing  his  campaign  from  wpi  weekdays,  he 
scored  his  first  big  upset,  winning  the  representative  seat  from 
Rockalnd  by  a  margin  of  2  to  1 .  He  hasn't  lost  an  election 
since. 

How  do  the  hometown  folks  feel  about  their  brand  new  con- 
gressman? In  a  word,  proud.  "Even  as  a  teenager,  Dave  stood 
out  as  a  young  man  going  places,"  says  a  former  school 
teacher.  Sincere,  exceptionally  mature,  and  high  principled  are 
other  descriptions. 

"As  a  youngster  he  was  already  interested  in  people  and 
business,"  reports  his  mother,  Mrs.  Albert  O.  Emery,  a  regis- 
tered nurse.  "When  he  was  only  five  he  operated  a  small  park- 
ing lot  for  summer  visitors  right  next  to  our  house.  By  the  time 
he  reached  junior  high  school,  he  was  earning  $200  a  summer 
from  the  lot.  It  helped  him  to  develop  business  sense.  He  also 
learned  how  to  meet  people." 

In  January,  Congressman  David  Emery  took  his  Yankee- 
honed  business  sense,  his  ability  to  meet  people,  and  his  hiking 
shoes  to  Capitol  Hill.  Only  time  will  tell  how  far  they  take 
him.  WPI 


WPI  Journal    February  1975     19 


1923 


1927 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  December  15,  when  it 
was  compiled  for  publication.  Information 
received  after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  wpi  journal. 


1903 


Henry  J.  Potter  writes  that  his  new  home 
address  is  26  Sheffield  Road,  West 
Yarmouth.  Mass. 


1908 


Herb  Carleton's  wife,  Myrtis,  died  on  July  28, 
1974,  following  an  illness  of  several  months. 
Class  Secretary  Donald  D.  Simonds  writes: 
"They  were  a  great  couple  and  were  fortu- 
nate in  a  companionship  of  nearly  65  years." 

1910 

The  George  F.  (Hap)  Martins  have  moved  to 
1 52  Sherbert  Rd..  Ashburnham,  Mass. 
01430.  Hap  is  recuperating  at  Heywood 
Memorial  Hospital  in  Gardner,  Mass.,  follow- 
ing extensive  surgery. 


1919 


George  R.  Rich  received  honorary  member- 
ship in  the  American  Society  of  Civil  Engi- 
neers at  the  annual  National  Environmental 
Engineering  Convention  held  in  Kansas  City, 
Mo  last  October.  He  is  a  senior  vice  presi- 
dent and  director  of  Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.  Dur- 
ing his  career  he  has  supervised  numerous 
hydroelectric  and  water-control  projects 
including  the  Cape  Cod  Ship  Canal  and  the 

TVA. 


1921 


Mr  and  Mrs  Fred  Weitzen  of  San  Diego, 
Calif.,  recently  celebrated  their  50th  wedding 
anniversary  Mr.  Weitzen  retired  as  chief 
court  reporter  of  the  Municipal  Court  in  1 962 


Recently  J.  Carleton  "Pop"  Adams  and  his 
son,  Jack,  '50,  were  spotlighted  in  the  Con- 
necticut General  Life  Insurance  Co.  maga- 
zine, View.  In  the  story  Pop  tells  how  he 
rechanneled  his  career  from  civil  engineer- 
ing to  insurance. 

"I'd  been  doing  bridge  design  work  in  the 
Pittsburgh  area  for  about  1 0  years  when  the 
depression  hit,"  he  says.  "Engineering 
looked  pretty  slim  in  those  days  so  I  decided 
to  switch  fields." 

Insurance  sounded  like  a  natural  to  him. 
He  already  had  a  couple  of  Connecticut  Gen- 
eral policies,  so  he  went  to  the  C.G.  office  in 
Pittsburgh  to  investigate  the  possibility  of 
selling. 

"The  time  was  right,"  Pop  explains.  "I  was 
the  first  person  hired  when  the  estate  plan- 
ning philosophy  was  beginning  to  take 
shape." 

Pop  says  switching  from  engineering  to 
insurance  isn't  as  great  a  change  as  one 
might  think,  for  problem-solving  exists  in 
both  fields. 

"Whether  you  work  with  concrete  and 
steel  or  with  money  management,  it  doesn't 
make  much  difference,"  he  claims.  "Either 
way  you  are  building  a  structure  to  solve 
problems." 

After  learning  to  sell  using  the  estate  plan- 
ning philosophy,  Pop  joined  the  C.G.  staff 
and  did  tax  consulting  together  with 
research  and  program  design  work  with  the 
agents.  His  contributions  to  the  Field  Techni- 
cal Committee  helped  form  a  bridge  from 
package  selling  to  estate  planning. 

Pop's  interest  in  wpi  and  success  in  the 
insui  ance  field  made  a  strong  impression  on 
his  son  John  R.  "Jack"  Adams,  '50,  who  fol- 
lowed him  to  wpi  and  later  into  a  career  with 
Connecticut  General.  According  to  his 
father,  Jack  says  his  two  years  at  wpi  have 
put  him  way  ahead  of  others  in  knowing  how 
to  attack  and  solve  problems. 

Currently  Jack  is  an  assistant  manager 
and  personal  producer  in  Indianapolis.  Pre- 
viously he  held  staff  positions  in  Hartford  and 
Kansas  City. 


1924 


Warren  B.  Fish  has  been  appointed  to  the 
Connecticut  State  Historical  Commission  by 
Governor  Thomas  J.  Meskill.  The  post 
includes  automatic  membership  on  the 
American  Revolution  Bicentennial  Commis- 
sion which  will  coordinate  celebration  activi- 
ties for  the  nation's  200th  birthday  in  1976. 
. .  .  Frank  Linsley  of  Thomaston,  Conn.,  was 
elected  pre-eminent  governor  at  the  annual 
meeting  of  York  Rite  College  (1 7).  He  began 
his  Masonic  career  in  St  Andrew's  Lodge 
(64)  in  Winsted,  Conn.,  in  1936  and  since 
then  he  has  been  awarded  a  number  of  med- 
als in  recognition  of  hisdistinguished service 
to  Masonry.  He  was  employed  by  utility  com- 
panies in  Massachusetts,  New  York  and 
Connecticut  He  retired  as  transmission  and 
distribution  engineer  for  the  Hartford  Elec- 
tric Light  Company 


Bradford  M.  Bowker  is  a  special  building 
inspector  for  the  Clark  County  Building 
Department  in  Las  Vegas,  Nevada. .  . .  Last 
August  Charles  MacLennan  retired  from  the 
staff  of  Harza  Engineering  Co.,  Chicago, 
where  he  had  held  the  post  of  utilities  engi- 
neer. Following  a  vacation  in  England,  Spain 
and  Canada,  he  joined  the  Canadian  Execu- 
tive Service  Overseas'  Organization  in  Octo- 
ber for  an  assignment  in  Brazil.  He  is  based 
in  Florianopolis  where  he  is  serving  in  an 
advisory  capacity  in  connection  with  electri- 
cal development  in  the  state  of  Santa 
Catarina. 


1929 


Brian  J.  O'Connell,  son  of  Andrew  J. 
O'Connell,  has  passed  the  Massachusetts 
Bar  exam.  He  was  one  of  989  state  residents 
who  passed  the  test  out  of  1 ,290  applicants. 
Andy  has  retired  from  the  Worcester  Acad- 
emy faculty  and  lives  in  Worcester. 


1931 


George  W.  Smith,  who  was  with  Factory 
Insurance  Association,  Philadelphia,  for 
many  years,  has  retired.  Presently  he  is 
located  in  Tuckerton,  N.J. 


1932 


Timothy  D.  Crimmins  retired  as  chief  plant 
engineer  last  March  from  cf  &  i  Steel  Corp., 
Roebling,  N.J. 


1936 


C.  Norman  Svenson  continues  with  g.e.,  but 
is  now  located  in  Wilmington,  Delaware. 


1938 


Richard  M.  Stuart  is  currently  with  g.e.'s 
Telecommunication  Products  Department  in 
Lynchburg,  Va. 


1939 


Walter  L.  Longnecker  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president-international  atGould,  Inc.,  in  Chi- 
cago. .  . .  Ernest  L.  Sykes  writes  that  not  only 
is  he  serving  a  year  with  vista,  his  wife  is 
serving  also.  A  registered  nurse,  she  is  work- 
ing in  a  clinic  in  Espahola,  N.M.,  one  of  sev- 
eral operated  for  agricultural  workers  in  the 
underdeveloped  and  depressed  northern 
area  of  the  state.  Ernie  works  with  non-profit 
Development  and  Support  Corp.  in  Espa- 
nola,  which  is  set  up  to  assist  small  rural 
communities  to  obtain  new  or  upgrade  old 
domestic  water  systems.  Thisincludes appli- 
cations for  grant  money  and  loan  money, 
engineering  feasibility  studies,  final  engi- 
neering and  construction  drawings,  and 
construction  inspection.  If  the  community 
association  wishes,  the  corporation  can  also 
furnish  them  operating  and  maintenance 
service  as  well  as  billing  and  accounting 
services.  As  vista  volunteers,  the  Sykses  are 
paid  just  enough  to  cover  food,  lodging,  and 


20     February  1  ■         WPIJournal 


personal  expenses  so  that  they  can  live  at 
the  subsistence  level  of  the  people  with 
whom  they  are  associated.  They  are  consid- 
ering extending  their  service  period  with 
vista,  finding  the  work  adventuresome  and 
challenging. 


1941 

Paul  G.  Bonin  currently  serves  as  manager- 
technical  service  international  at  Union  Car- 
bide Corp.,  Wayne,  N.J Charles  L.  Hoe- 

bel  is  the  Washington,  D.C.,  representative 
for  Carrier  Corporation. . . .  Arthur  J.  Jack- 
son is  with  Peabody  Engineering  Corp., 
Stamford,  Conn. 


1949 


1955 


1942 


Charles  D.  Berry  works  as  a  senior  sales 
engineer  at  AddelcoCorp.,  Needham,  Mass. 
. . .  Joseph  N.  Christian  is  a  sales  engineer  at 
Priority  Systems,  Inc.,  Covina,  Calif. . . . 
James  F.  Robjent,  purchasing  manager  of 
Scott  Paper  Company's  Northeast  opera- 
tions, has  been  awarded  the  title  of  certified 
purchasing  agent  by  the  National  Associa- 
tion of  Purchasing  Agents.  The  award  is 
based  on  academic  achievement,  experi- 
ence inthe  purchasing  field,  contributionsto 
the  professional  aspects  of  purchasing  and 
completion  of  several  written  examinations. 
He  has  been  purchasing  manager  since 
1954.  Previously  he  worked  in  h  &  w's  Boston 
office. 


1946 


Edward  A.  Pendleton  owns  and  operates 
Pendleton  Fire  Brick  Co.,  Bloomfield,  Conn. 
...  J.  Larry  Stewart  is  the  owner  of  Stewart 
Technical  Sales  in  New  York  City. . . .  Mal- 
colm K.  White  holds  the  post  of  pollution 
control  director  at  Pervel  Industries,  Inc., 
Plainfield,  Conn. 


1947 


Paul  D.  O'Donnell  is  general  manager  in  the 
Tampa  (Fla.)  Division  of  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric Corp. 


1948 


Charles  F.  Jones  serves  as  president  of 
Nuclear  Utility  Service  Corp.,  Rockville,  Md. 
. . .  William  G.  Ritchie,  vice  president  of  stv, 
Inc.  (consulting  engineers),  inthe  Washing- 
ton, D.C.  office,  has  been  appointed  federal 
government  marketing  manager.  Formerly 
he  was  president  of  another  STVfirm,  Envi- 
ronment &  Technology  Assessments,  Inc.  He 
will  remain  in  Washington  in  his  new  assign- 
ment as  marketing  consultant  on  federal 
projects  nationwide.  He  joined  Sanders  & 
Thomas  in  1 962  and  was  elected  a  vice  pres- 
ident of  stv  in  1972. 


Francis  J.  Bigda  presently  serves  as  sales 
manager  at  Semicon,  Inc.,  in  Burlington, 
Mass. 


1950 


Prof.  Richard  Beschle  of  the  life  sciences 
department  at  wpi  was  recently  awarded  the 
Silver  Beaver  award  for  outstanding  service 
as  a  volunteer  leader  in  the  Boy  Scouts.  He  is 
the  camping  and  activities  chairman  of  the 
Mohegan  Council,  cub  master  of  Pack  102, 
committeeman  of  Troop  1 9,  and  the  former 
cub  master  of  Pack  27  in  Auburn.  He  also  has 
served  as  district  chairman  for  the  southwest 
council  district,  a  member  of  the  council 
executive  board  and  chairman  of  camping 
and  activities  at  the  Treasure  Valley  Scout 
Reservation  in  Paxton,  Mass. .  . .  Colonel 
Frank  W.  Harding  is  a  member  of  the  mas- 
sive U.S.  Air  Force  team  that  assisted  in  the 
development  of  the  new  B-1  strategic 
bomber.  He  is  director  of  procurement  at 
Wright-Patterson  afb,  Ohio,  with  the  B-1  sys- 
tems program  office  which  coordinated  the 
work  of  more  than  60  civilian  contractors 
who  helped  design,  develop  and  testthe  air- 
craft's systems.  The  B-1  will  be  the  succes- 
sor to  the  Strategic  Air  Command's  B-52 
Stratofortress. 


1951 


Maurice  Gosselin  serves  as  materials  flow 
manager  at  Dow  Corning  Corp.,  Midland, 
Michigan. . .  .  Walter  J.  Kolodne  is  a  builder- 
developer  with  Multiplex  Corp.  of  Virginia  in 
Alexandria Duncan  W.  Munro,  superin- 
tendent of  Mount  Auburn  Cemetery,  Cam- 
bridge, Mass.,  was  recently  elected  second 
vice  president  of  the  American  Cemetery 
Association  at  the  national  trade  group's 
convention  in  Las  Vegas,  Nevada.  The  post 
includes  membership  on  the  executive  com- 
mittee. Munro  has  served  as  a  director  of  aca 
and  written  numerous  articles  for  the  asso- 
ciation's journal. 

1953 

Richard  A.  Davis  has  been  promoted  to  vice 
president  and  general  manager  of  the  Ther- 
mos Division  (King-Seeley)  operations  within 
the  United  States.  He  joined  the  firm  in  1 973 
as  director  of  manufacturing.  From  1953 
until  1 973  he  was  associated  with  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  He  was  manager  of  manu- 
facturing atthe  g.e.  Portland,  Me.  generation 
products  facility  prior  to  accepting  a  position 

with  Thermos Dr.  Robert  W.  Fitzgerald  of 

wpi's  civil  engineering  department  is  one  of 
four  speakers  sponsored  by  the  National  Fire 
Protection  Association  who  have  been  trav- 
eling around  the  country  lecturing  on  the 
safety  features  that  are  needed  in  high-rise 
buildings. 


Currently  Harold  S.  Sauer  holds  the  position 
of  vice  president  of  Medical  Innovations, 
Inc.,  Waltham,  Mass. 


1956 


Richard  J.  Emery  works  as  manufacturing 
superintendent  at  E.I.  duPont  in  Old  Hickory, 
Tenn. . . .  George  P.  Strom  was  recently 
appointed  director  of  materials  management 
at  Ortho  Diagnostics,  Inc.,  a  subsidiary  of 
Johnson  &  Johnson.  He  is  responsible  for 
distribution  services,  purchasing,  produc- 
tion planning  and  materials  handling.  A  past 
president  of  the  Cranford  (N.J.)  Board  of 
Education,  he  has  also  been  involved  with 
Little  League  football,  the  Boy  Scouts,  and 
the  United  Fund  drive. 


1957 


Robert  P.  Engvall  has  been  appointed  direc- 
tor of  facilities  and  construction  at  Con- 
necticut Mutual  Life  in  Hartford,  Conn. 
Previously  he  was  superintendent  of  manu- 
facturing services  at  Astra  Pharmaceutical 
Products  in  Worcester. . . .  Paul  J.  Kerrigan 
serves  as  executive  vice  president  at  Gerald 
Rosen  Co.,  Inc.,  in  Framingham,  Mass. . . . 
Arthur  Nedvin  was  recently  named  director 
of  plans  and  controls  for  ibm  World  Trade 
Asia  Corporation.  For  the  next  two  years  the 
Nedvins  and  their  three  children  will  be  living 

in  Tokyo,  Japan Edward  A.  Stucke  is  now 

with  g.e.'s  Ordnance  Department  in  Pitts- 
field,  Mass. 


1958 


Robert  F.  Bernado  has  retired  as  a  lieutenant 
colonel  from  the  U.S.  Air  Force  and  is  cur- 
rently located  in  Nashville,  Tenn. . . .  William 
S.  Brower,  Jr.,  is  automation  consultant  at 
Control  Data  Corp.,  Glastonbury,  Conn. . . . 
Michael  S.  Gutman,  formerly  with  Digital 
Marketing  Associates,  has  been  appointed 
marketing  manager,  Component  Computers, 
forthe  Digital  Equipment  Corp.  in  Marlboro, 
Mass.  He  will  be  responsible  for  all  aspects 
of  the  marketing  and  sales  support  program 
for  microprocessors  and  other  modular  com- 
puters sold  by  the  Components  Group.  . . . 
Richard  M.  Wiberg  serves  as  a  senior  pro- 
cess engineer  at  Nekoosa  Edwards  Paper 
Co.  in  Port  Edwards,  Wisconsin. 


1954 

Joseph  J.  Fratino  is  manager  of  engineering 
services  at  Columbia  Gas  Transmission 
Corp.,  Charleston,  West  Virginia. 


WPI  Journal  I  February  1975  I  21 


1959 


1962 


Burnham  H.  Baker  holds  the  post  of  vice 
president  at  Inforex,  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass. 
. .    Robert  A.  Berg  is  now  a  factory  manager 
for  Rexnord.  .  . .  Peter  K.  Bertsch  serves  as 
manager,  food  packaging  engineering,  at 
Sweetheart  Plastics,  Wilmington.  Mass.  . . . 
Dr.  Norman  A.  Hiatt  is  a  senior  research 
engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  . .  .  John 
R.  Mack  works  for  Curtiss-Wright  Corp., 
Wood  Ridge,  N.J.  . .  .  Windle  B.  Priem 
recently  received  an  award  from  the  U.S. 
Small  Business  Administration  for  directing 
the  agency's  outstanding  region  for  1 974.  He 
is  regional  director  of  sba's  Region  II  which 
includes  New  York,  New  Jersey,  Puerto  Rico 
and  the  Virgin  Islands.  During  the  fiscal  year 
ending  last  June  30th,  Region  II  approved 
loans  totaling  $281 ,31 0,000  and  trained  and 
counselled  more  than  20,000  people. 


1960 


Michael  J.  O'Toole,  Jr.,  is  chief,  Bureau  of 
Water  Quality  Planning,  forthe  New  York 
State  Departmentof  Environmental  Con- 
servation in  Albany.  . .  .  Edward  J.  Russell  is 
with  Group  Executives  at  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Bridgeport,  Conn. 


1961 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  A.  Quagliaroli,  a 
son,  James  John,  on  October  3, 1 974.  John 
is  with  First  National  City  Bank  in  Cambridge, 
Mass. 

Harold  W.  Alatalo  has  joined  General 
Electric  in  Binghamton,  N.Y. .  . .  Henry  P. 
Allessio  is  now  the  director  of  marketing  and 
planning  for  Geon  Industries,  Inc.,  Wood- 
bury, LI.,  N.Y.  Geon  is  on  the  American 
Stock  Exchange  and  is  the  country's  largest 
independent  importer  and  distributor  of 
replacement  parts,  specializing  in  foreign 
cars.  Allessio  was  formerly  a  principal  in  the 
firm  of  William  E.  Hill  &  Co.,  Inc.,  New  York 
City,  a  part  of  the  management  consulting 
division  of  Dunn  &  Bradstreet.  With  his  wife, 
Judi,  and  daughters,  Darlene,  9,  and 
Suzanne,  2,  Allessio  resides  in  Pelham 
Manor,  N.Y. . . .  Currently  Richard  J.  Baker  is 
pastor  of  the  First  Presbyterian  Church  in 
Avonmore,  Pa . . . .  The  Rev.  Roger  R.  Bor- 
den, associate  professor  of  mechanical 
engineering  at  wpi,  has  been  appointed  pas- 
tor of  the  Fitchburg  (Mass.)  United  Methodist 
Church.  He  is  an  ordained  deacon  of  the 
Methodist  Church  and  is  presently  com- 
pleting work  for  eligibility  as  an  elder. . . . 
Richard  D.  Cohen  is  an  account  executive  at 
Thomson  &  McKinnon,  Auchincloss 
Kohlmeyer,  Inc.,  in  Baltimore,  Md.  .  . .  Nino 
M.  DiPilato  serves  as  a  staff  engineer  at  ibm 
Corp.,  Hopewell  Jet.,  New  York.  The  DiPi- 
latos  have  two  children.  David,  2'/?,  and 
Michael,  6  months 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Joel  L.  Gordon  a 

daughter,  Jennifer,  on  June  21 , 1 974.  Gor- 
don is  a  self-employed  environmental  con- 
sultant in  San  Juan,  Puerto  Rico.  ...  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  John  V.  Meregian  a  daughter, 
Nicole,  on  November  23, 1 974.  Nicole  has  an 
older  sister  Tanya,  3.  Meregian  is  quality 
control  manager  for  the  Northern  Manufac- 
turing Division  of  Kendall,  a  subsidiary  of 
Colgate,  in  Walpole,  Mass. 

Albert  C.  Andrews  serves  as  corporate 
director,  production  control,  at  Western  Pub- 
lishing in  Racine,  Wisconsin. .  . .  The  Rev. 
Paul  W.  Goranson  has  been  assigned  to 
Grace  Episcopal  Church,  Oxford,  Mass.,  as 
an  assistant  to  the  vicar.  Earlier  he  was  with 
the  Peace  Corps  in  Ghana,  taught  math, 
physics  and  chemistry  in  Massachusetts  and 
North  Carolina  and  did  community  devel- 
opment work  with  the  U.S.  Agency  for  Inter- 
national Development,  in  Vietnam.  He 
recently  received  his  master  of  divinity 
degree  from  General  Theological  Seminary 
in  New  York  City.  He  was  ordained  a  deacon 
last  June. . . .  John  M.  Samborski  is  currently 
administrative  assistant  to  the  vice  president 
of  colors  and  chemicals  at  basf  Wyandotte  in 
Parsippany,  N.J. . .  .  Capt.  John  R.  Tufano  is 
now  stationed  at  Rock  Island,  III.,  at  the  U.S. 
Army  Armament  Command. 


1963 


Richard  L.  Ailing  has  been  promoted  to 
assistant  superintendent  of  pressed  metal 
products  at  Torrington  (Conn.)  Co.  Since 
joining  the  company  in  1 964,  he  has  served 
as  an  engineer  in  bearing  production,  con- 
centrating on  thrust  bearings.  . .  .  Carleton 
"Pete"  Borden  now  works  as  an  orlon  plan- 
ning assistant  at  DuPont  in  Wilmington, 
Delaware. .  . .  James  D.  Clark  is  a  marketing 
product  managerfor  Xerox  Corp.  in  Dallas, 
Texas.  . .  .  Robert  F.  Grenier  was  recently 
elected  vice  president  for  engineering  at 
Quabaug  Rubber  Co.,  North  Brookfield, 
Mass.  He  joined  the  firm  as  a  plant  engineer 
in  1 968.  ...  Dr.  Francis  E.  Kennedy,  Jr.,  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  engineering  at  Thayer 
School  of  Engineering,  Dartmouth  College, 
Hanover,  N.H.  . .  .  Dr.  Frederick  L.  Kubick, 
who  earned  his  PhD  in  physics  from  the 
former  Polytechnic  Institute  of  Brooklyn,  is 
currently  employed  as  a  sonar  systems  ana- 
lyst and  consultant  at  Sperry  Rand  Corpora- 
tion, Systems  Management  Division,  in  Great 
Neck,  N.Y. 


1964 


Dr.  Paul  G.  Amazeen  holds  the  post  of  direc- 
tor of  engineering  at  Rohe  Scientific  Corp., 
Santa  Ana,  Calif. .  .  .  Richard  R.  Brown  has 
been  promoted  to  the  new  post  of  manager 
of  corporate  information  and  advertising  in 
the  communications  department  at  Data 
General  Corporation,  Southboro,  Mass.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  overall  press  rela- 
tions, corporate  advertising,  employee  com- 
munications and  recruitment  advertising 
Previously  he  was  manager  of  advertising 
and  sales  promotion.  He  began  working  for 


the  firm  in  1 970  as  a  public  relations  special- 
ist. . . .  Wade  W.  Cloyd,  SIM,  has  been  pro- 
moted to  the  position  of  director  of  corporate 
communications  for  the  American  Optical 
Corp.  He  was  the  director  of  marketing  serv- 
ices for  the  optical  products  division.  Now  he 
will  be  responsible  for  development  and 
administration  of  communications  policies 
and  activities  for  the  company.  He  joined  ao 
in  1958  as  a  manager  of  sales  promotion  in 
the  advertising  department.  Later  he  was 
manager  of  advertising  and  public  relations 
and  director  of  marketing  services.  . .  .  Peter 
L.  Dornemann,  business  development  man- 
ager for  the  Industrial  Chemicals  Division  at 
nl  Industries,  Hightstown,  N.J.,  has  been 
slated  to  visit  wpi  as  a  company  recruiter  in 
February. .  . .  Currently  Lt.  Col.  David  Y. 
Healy,  usmc,  is  stationed  at  El  Toro,  Calif. . . . 
Dr.  Steven  D.  Mittleman  is  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor in  the  EE  Department  at  the  University 
of  Maine  in  Orono.  He  received  his  PhD  from 
Brown  last  year.  . .  .  Robert  E.  Mournighan 
has  accepted  the  position  of  day  supervisor 
polymer  at  the  Front  Royal  (Va.)  plant  of  fmc 
Corporation.  He  recentlyjoined  the  company 
as  a  process  engineer  in  the  Polyester  Pro- 
cess Improvement  Department.  Earlier  he 
was  a  process  development  engineer  with 
the  Goodyear  Tire  and  Rubber  Company 
where  he  was  responsible  for  pilot  plant 
development  work  and  process  trouble 
shooting  in  plant  operations. ...  Dr.  Alfred  R. 
Potvin,  chairman  and  associate  professor  of 
biomedical  engineering  at  the  University  of 
Texas  at  Arlington,  has  been  selected  by 
nasa  to  participate  as  a  life  scientist  at  Ames 
Research  Center,  Moffett  Field,  Calif.,  for 
one  year.  He  will  investigate  space  motion 
sickness,  one  of  the  major  biomedical  prob- 
lems in  manned  space  flight. 
. . .  John  H.  Schmidt  has  received  his  profes- 
sional engineering  license  in  New  York  state. 
. .  .  Presently  Peter  J.  Tancredi  works  as  a 
component  manager  at  Camp  Dresser  & 
McKee,  Inc.,  Denver,  Colorado. 


1965 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  John  (Jack)  Kelley, 
their  first  son,  last  March.  They  also  have  a 
four-year-old  daughter.  Jack  was  recently 
promoted  to  construction  division  director  at 
Stewart  and  Williams  of  Augusta,  Me.  He  is 
responsible  for  the  construction  of  $28  mil- 
lion worth  of  work  now  under  contract.  A  pro- 
fessional engineer,  he  has  been  with  the  firm 
since  1970,  serving  as  a  construction  project 
manager. 

James  Calvin  works  as  a  clinical  psy- 
chologist atthe  National  Naval  Medical  Cen- 
ter in  Bethesda,  Md. .  . .  Paul  L.  Giusti  has 
assumed  the  position  of  sales  manager  for 
General  Electric  Company's  capacitor  prod- 
ucts department  which  is  located  in  Hudson 
Falls,  N.Y.  ...  James  B.  Gustafson  serves  as 
computer  facilities  manager  at  Chas.  T. 
Main,  Inc.,  Boston.  . . .  Peter  B.  Kirschmann, 
now  a  manager-manufacturing  engineering 
for  G.E.,  is  located  in  Merrimack,  N.H. ...  Dr. 
Peter  S.  Welcker  serves  as  a  chemist  for 
duPont  at  their  Washington  (W.  Va.)  works. 


22     February  1975     WPI  Journal 


4  -J 


1975  ENGINEER  NG  GRADUATES 

SIKORSKY  Helicopters  help  build  a  lot  of  things 
...including  exciting  careers 


Far  more  versatile  than  many  people  know,  the 
helicopter  provides  scores  of  unexpected  ser- 
vices. Specially  designed  craft  by  Sikorsky,  for 
example,  do  workhorse  chores  in  construction 
of  many  types.  Frequently,  they  replace  mobile 
cranes,  and  just  as  frequently  perform  heavy 
lifting  tasks  more  effectively. 

In  the  area  of  commercial,  industrial  and  public 
service  applications,  VTOL  (Vertical  Take-off  and 
Landing)  craft  is  virtually  in  its  infancy.  Support- 
ing technology,  too,  still  presents  wide  areas 
for  exploration  and  long  term  development. 


Currently,  Sikorsky  has  openings  pro- 
viding strong  prospects  for  continu- 
ing career  gains  for  Aeronautica 
Electrical  and  Mechanical 
Engineers  in  the  following 
areas: 


Sikorsky  Rircraft 


DESIGN  (aircraft  structures;  propulsion  systems; 
transmissions;  rotor,  hydraulic  &  flight  control 
systems;  electrical/electronic  systems). 

TEST  AND  ANALYSIS  (structural,  loads, 
dynamic,  stress,  mass  properties,  reliability/ 
maintainability;  electrical/electronic  systems; 
technical  computing). 

MANUFACTURING  ENGINEERING  (planning, 
methods,  processes). 

Starting  salaries  and  benefits  are  excellent.  And 
our  suburban  location  in  Stratford,  Connecti- 
cut is  rich  in  living  and  cultural  opportun- 
ities. For  further  information,  see  your 
\m  m  Placement  Office  for  our  brochure 

*--JI     a.       and  the  date  of  our  forthcoming 
campus  interviews.  Or  write  di- 
rectly to  Mr.  Leo  J.  Shalvoy, 
Professional  Placement. 

r   1 


STRATFORD,  CONNECTICUT   06602 

An  Equal  Opportunity  Employer  M  &  F 


U 

JITED  A 

ft 


DIVISION  OF  UNITED  AIRCRAFT  CORP. 


John  H.  Zifcak  is  now  process  group 
manager  at  the  Foxboro  Company  plant  in 
East  Bridgewater,  Mass.  He  is  responsible 
for  the  production,  materials,  planning  and 
engineering  of  the  process  lines  which 
include  etched  circuit  boards,  cable  and 
transformers.  He  has  been  with  the  firm 
since  1 967  and  has  served  as  a  staff  assist- 
ant in  development  and  engineering  and  as 
engineering  manager  at  the  East  Bridge- 
water  plant  which  manufactures  electronic 
assemblies.  Previously  he  taught  high  school 
physics  and  chemistry  in  Rhode  Island. 


1966 


Married:  Robert  B.  Dolan  and  Miss  Mary  S. 
Hussey  recently  in  Manchester,  New  Hamp- 
shire. The  bride,  a  teacher,  graduated  from 
Paul  Smith  Junior  College  and  Notre  Dame 
College,  Manchester,  N.H.  The  bridegroom 
is  presently  a  product  engineer  with  gte 
Sylvania. 

Krikor  D.  Gureghian  serves  as  a  senior 
process  engineer  at  Fluor  Corp.,  Los  Ange- 
les. Calif  .    .  Jonathan  H.  Pardee,  a  general 
agent  for  Occidental  Life  Insurance  Co.  of 
California,  also  is  an  associate  at  G.  Nolan 
Bearden  Co.  (insurance  brokerage)  in 
Atlanta,  Ga.       Lawrence  A.  Penoncello  has 
been  appointed  manufacturing  manager  of 
The  Wire  Mill  Division  at  Torrington  (Conn.) 
Co  Originally  hired  in  1 967  as  a  manufac- 
turing engineer  at  the  Standard  plant,  he  was 
transferred  to  the  Broad  St.  plant  in  1 968  as  a 
general  foreman.  Since  that  time  he  has 
been  in  overall  charge  of  several  depart- 
ments. .  .  .  Carl  E.  Hellstrom  was  recently 
named  the  principal  regional  transit  planner 
for  the  Central  Massachusetts  Regional 
Planning  Commission.  He  spent  the  past  two 
years  in  the  City  Manager's  Office  of  Plan- 
ning and  Community  Development  as  a  sen- 
ior transportation  planner  and  was  active  in 
the  study  leading  to  the  creation  of  the 
Worcester  Regional  Transit  Authority.  Earlier 
he  was  an  instructor  at  wpi. 


1967 


Roger  C.  Binkerd  is  director  of  hydro- 
graphic  studies  at  Aquatec  in  Burlington,  Vt. 
Earlier  he  had  worked  for  Stone  &  Webster  in 
Boston  and  had  served  in  the  Peace  Corps  in 
Africa.  The  Binkerds  have  two  children,  Lisa, 

4,  and  Chad,  3 Paul  Cherubini  has  been 

named  vice  president  in  charge  of  opera- 
tions at  the  Standard  Sign  and  Signal  Co., 
Inc.,  in  Clinton,  Mass.  He  joined  the  company 
four  years  ago.  He  had  been  with  the  Carlson 
Construction  Company  in  Cochituate  and 
the  Badger  Engineering  Company  in  Cam- 
bridge. . . .  Peter  M.  Herron,  a  business  plan- 
ner at  Hughes  Aircraft,  El  Segundo,  Calif., 
performs  financial  analyses  and  other  busi- 
ness studies  supporting  the  sale  of  com- 
mercial communications  satellites.  He 
received  his  mba  from  the  University  of  Den- 
ver last  year.  . .  .  James  C.  Lefevre  is  a  self- 
employed  land  manager  in  the  eastern 
United  States. . . .  Douglas  H.  Pike  is  study- 
ing for  his  PhD  at  Boston  College  . .  .  William 
E.  Tanzer  works  as  a  project  engineer  at 
Eastman  Gelatine  Corp.,  Peabody,  Mass. . . . 
Wayne  T.  Wirtanen  has  been  appointed  chief 
of  the  newly  formed  Water  Compliance  Sec- 
tion of  the  U.S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency's  regional  enforcement  office.  He 
will  be  responsible  for  the  technical  aspects 
of  compliance  with  national  pollutantdis- 
charge  elimination  system  permits  including 
investigationsfor  noncompliance  and  com- 
mencement of  enforcement  actions.  Wirta- 
nen is  a  registered  professional  engineer 
and  has  worked  in  the  technical  studies  sec- 
tion of  epa's  Surveillance  and  Analysis  Divi- 
sion since  1972. 


Electric  in  Pittsfield,  Mass J.  Kevin  Sulli- 
van holds  the  position  of  marketing  manager 
at  Stanley  Hydraulic  Tools  in  Clackamas, 
Oregon. 


1968 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  R.  Hyatt  their 
second  daughter,  Anna  Marie,  on  June  29, 
1 974.  Bill  is  now  employed  by  Stearns-Roger 
Engineering  Company,  Denver,  Colorado. 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marshall  B.  Taylor  a 
son,  Prescott,  on  January  6,  1 974.  Marsh  is 
manager  of  capital  planning  at  Ryder  Sys- 
tems, Inc.,  Miami,  Fla. 

Kenneth  D.  Ekstrom  recently  took  part  in 
an  expedition  off  the  North  Coast  of  South 
America.  He  iswith  the  department  of  ocean- 
ography at  the  University  of  Rhode  Island  in 
Kingston.  .  .  .  Stephen  M.  Holub  is  regional 
salesengineer  at  Union  Carbide/Linde  Divi- 
sion, in  Houston,  Texas.  . .  .  Richard  E. 
Makohon  is  a  student  at  the  University  of  Ala- 
bama. . .  .  Stephen  M.  Pytka  currently  works 
in  the  Ordnance  Department  at  General 


1969 


Married:  Bruce  M.  Green  and  Miss  Patrice  A. 
Piccolo  on  October  26,  1974  in  Stonington, 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Green  graduated  from 
Southern  Connecticut  State  College  and  is  a 
learning  disabilities  Teacher  at  Washington 
Junior  High  School  in  New  Britain.  The 
groom  is  a  mechanical  engineer-product 
engineer  at  Hartford  Special  Machinery  Co. 
in  Simsbury. .  . .  Harold  F.  Hemond  to  Miss 
Carol  A.  Thomson  in  Ledyard,  Connecticut 
on  August  1 0, 1 974.  The  bride  graduated 
from  George  Mason  University  and  earned 
her  ma  at  Connecticut  College.  Her  husband, 
who  received  his  ma  in  botany  at  Connecticut 
College,  is  now  working  for  his  Phd  at  m.i.t. 
Previously  he  wasemployed  asdeputy  direc- 
tor of  Water  and  Related  Resources  for  the 
state  department  of  Environmental  Protec- 
tion. . . .  Douglas  H.  Morash  amd  Miss  Denise 
Hillick  of  Ithaca,  New  York,  on  November  9, 
1 974.  The  groom  is  writing  his  thesis  for  a 
PhD  in  mechanical  engineering  from  Cornell 
University. 

Richard  Alpert  has  been  teaching  at  the 
Tehran  American  School  in  Iran.  ...  U.S.  Air 
Force  Captain  Warren  L.  Anderson  has  been 
certified  as  a  missile  combat  crew  com- 
mander at  Grand  Forks  afb,  N.D.  Capt. 
Anderson,  a  missile  launch  officer  with  more 
than  four  years  service,  was  recommended 
for  upgrading  by  his  wing  commander  after 
meeting  all  training  and  evaluation  require- 
ments. . . .  Ralph  N.  demons  serves  as  an 
application  engineer  at  Measurex  Corpora- 
tion in  Portland,  Maine. . . .  Joseph  E.  Fitz- 
gerald, Jr.,  is  now  employed  by  Lockwood 
Greene  Engineers,  Inc.,  Spartanburg,  S.C.  . . 
.  Alfred  G.  Freeberg  works  for  General  Elec- 
tric Co.  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. .  . .  Stephen 
Legomsky  is  a  student  at  the  University  of 
San  Diego  (Calif.)  School  of  Law. . .  .  Also 
studying  law  is  Richard  P.  Romeo  who  is  at 
the  University  of  Maine  in  Portland. .  . . 
Francis  W.  Skwira  writes  that  he  left  g.e.  last 
April.  Now  he  is  permanently  assigned  in 
Atlanta  with  Ebasco  Services,  Inc.  The 
Skwiras  recently  settled  in  their  new  house  in 
Lilburn,  Ga. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


1970 


Married:  George  M.  Iszlai  to  Miss  Karen  D. 
Baker  on  October  5,  1 974  in  Nashua,  New 
Hampshire.  The  bride  attended  unh  and 
graduated  from  Youville  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing,  Cambridge,  Mass.  The  groom 
received  his  master's  degree  from  unh.  . .  . 
Robert  J.  Killion,  Jr.,  to  Miss  Sharon  L 
Orciani  on  October  27,  1 974  in  West  Boyls- 
ton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Killion  graduated 
from  Ollis  Beauty  Academy  and  is  a  hair- 
dresser. Her  husband  is  vice  president  of 
Killion  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  James  P. 
Troupes  and  Miss  Marlene  M.  Garbauskas 
on  October  26  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Troupes 
attended  Clark  University.  The  bridegroom  is 
the  town  engineer  in  Milford,  Mass  .  . . 


24  WPI  Journal 


What  we're  looking  for  hardest: 

B.S.  or  M.S.  in  Ch.E. 
B.S.  or  M.S.  in  M.E. 

(Not  that  we  want  to  scare  off  electrical  engineers  and 
industrial  engineers.  If  you  are  one,  ask  us  what's  doing.) 


Who  could  probably  do  better  elsewhere: 


Prefers  to  live  in  no  one 

locality  for  long. 

(But  we  do  often  have  openings  for  chem- 
ical engineers  willing  to  migrate  frequently 
while  building  a  career  in  marketing.) 


Wants  lots  more  training 
before  attacking  real 
problems. 

(We  do  try  to  scale  your  projects  to  your 
experience  and  beyond.) 


Likes  to  keep  a  low  profile. 

(We  don't  operate  as  a  collection  of  little 
plants  scattered  all  over.  You  are  in  close 
daily  contact  with  the  big  picture.  You  get 
to  see  where  the  interesting  challenges  are 
and  to  convince  somebody  you  can  meet 
them.) 


Drop  a  note  about  yourself  to 
EASTMAN  KODAK  COMPANY 
Business  and  Technical  Personnel 
Rochester,  N.Y.  14650 


Kodak 


An  equal-opportunity  employer  f/m 

Kodak  engineers  find  their  opportunities  without  moving  far  from 
Rochester,  N.Y.,  Windsor,  Colo.,  Kingsport,  Tenn.,  Longview,  Tex.,  or  Columbia,  S.C. 


Air  Force  1  /Lt.  Kenneth  C.  Bassmann  has 

been  assigned  to  Ft.  Meade,  Md.,  for  duty 
with  a  unit  of  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Security 
Service.  He  is  a  communications-electronics 
operations  officer  with  the  6970th  Air  Base 
Group.  Previously  he  was  assigned  at  Takhli 
Royal  Thai  afb,  Thailand.  He  was  decorated 
with  the  U.S.  Air  Force  Commendation  Medal 
for  meritorious  service  in  Thailand. . . .  Rich- 
ard E.  Bergeron  is  with  Engineered  Specialty 
Products  in  Frazer,  Pa. .  . .  Wayne  Eastman 
works  as  a  plant  engineer  at  Allied  Chemical 
in  Columbia,  S.C.  . . .  Dom  Forcella  writes:  "I 
am  an  unemployed  Czar  recovering  from  a 
wound  received  from  a  flying  vector."  . . . 
Peter  G.  Hancock  is  a  group  manager  at  gte 
Labs,  Inc.,  Waltham,  Mass. .  . .  Ted  Lelek 
serves  as  a  national  accounts  representative 
at  Gulf  Oil  Chemicals  Co.,  New  York  City. .  . . 
Bradford  R.  Myrick  is  a  design  engineer  at 
Improved  Machinery,  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H.  . .  . 
Frank  Pope,  Jr.  currently  works  as  a  design 
engineer  for  Stein  Associates,  Waltham, 
Mass. 


1971 

Married  Philip  Cianciotto  to  Miss  Donna- 
RaePasch  on  September  14, 1974  in  Roch- 
ester. New  York.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Beloit  College  and  is  employed  by  Leach 
Steel  Corp.  Her  husband  is  a  chemist  with 
Eastman  Kodak  Co. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Richard  Arena,  a 
daughter,  Nicole,  on  May  28, 1 974.  Arena  is  a 
service  specialist  at  Wyman  Gordon,  North 
Grafton,  Mass. 

Robert  J.  Allard,  Jr.,  has  accepted  a  new 
position  as  vice  president  of  Croman  Devel- 
opment Company  in  East  Orange,  N.J.,  one 
of  the  largest  commercial  real  estate  devel- 


opers in  that  state. .  . .  George  J.  Bakevich, 

who  recently  left  the  U  .S.  Atomic  Energy 
Commission,  has  accepted  a  position  in  the 
Safety  Review  and  Appraisal  Branch  of  Aero- 
jet Nuclear  Company.  Bakevich  is  respon- 
sible for  nuclear  criticality  safety  and  some 
health  physics  work.  He  is  currently  located 
in  Atomic  City,  Idaho  (population:  39). 
. .  Thomas  R.  Copp  now  serves  as  plant 
engineer  at  Rexnord,  Inc.,  Maynard,  Mass. 
. .  .  Robert  R.  Dutkiewicz  holds  the  post  of 
plant  metallurgist  at  National  Standard  Co., 
Worcester  Wire  Division. ...  Dr.  Baljit  S. 
Gambhir  is  a  research  engineer  at  mtm  Pro- 
cess Research  &  Development  Laboratory, 
Deer  Park,  Texas.  . .  .  Jack  B.  Greenshields 
was  recently  promoted  to  superintendent  of 
purchasing  and  traffic  with  the  Monsanto 
Commercial  Products  Company,  Stoning- 
ton,  Conn.  He  is  also  a  signal  center  platoon 
leader  with  the  Connecticut  Army  National 

Guard,  holding  the  rank  of  first  lieutenant 

William  E.  Helliwell,  Jr.,  has  been  promoted 
to  district  service  manager  for  the  Riley  Sto- 
ker Corp.  of  Worcester.  Previously  the  resi- 
dent service  engineer  in  Denver,  Colo.,  he 
will  be  servicing  the  Rocky  Mountain  District 
for  Riley  Stoker,  a  major  manufacturer  in  util- 
ity and  industrial  steam  generators  and  air 
pollution  equipment. .  . .  Emile  P.  Levasseur 
works  for  g.e.  in  Lynn,  Mass. . . . 

John  V.  Marino  is  a  graduate  student  at 
wpi.  . . .  Robert  A.  Payne,  a  partner  in  the 
firm,  National  Legal  Supplies,  isalso  working 
for  his  mba  at  the  University  of  Utah  in  Salt 
Lake  City. . . .  Francis  M.  Scricco  is  associ- 
ated with  the  Boston  Consulting  Group,  in 
Boston. . . .  John  H.  Sieczkos  works  for  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.  in  Binghamton,  N.Y.  . .  . 
Thomas  Weil  attendsthe  University  of  Mas- 
sachusetts in  Amherst  where  he  is  studying 
for  his  MS  in  ocean  engineering. 


1972 


j  amesbury 

^_J  manufacturers  of 

Double-Seal  Ball  Valves 

Wafer-Sphere  Butterfly  Valves 

JFC  Control  Valves 

Jamesbur/  Corp.  •  640  Lincoln  Street  •  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 


Married:  Samuel  T.  Cuscovitch  to  Miss  Patri- 
cia H.  Block  recently.  The  bride  is  a  graduate 
of  Central  Connecticut  State  College  and 
teaches  in  South  Windsor,  Conn.  Her  hus- 
band, a  data  communications  analyst  at 
Aetna  Life  &  Casualty  in  Hartford,  has 
received  his  MS  in  information  science  from 
rpi —  John  D.  Kaletski  and  Miss  Gwynne  E. 
Peterson,  '73,  on  October  1 9, 1 974,  in  Boyls- 
ton,  Massachusetts.  Mrs.  Kaletski  is  a  staff 
supervisor  in  the  engineering  department  of 
American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Co., 
White  Plains,  N.Y.  The  groom  is  a  chemical 
engineer  at  Clairol,  Inc.,  Stamford,  Conn. . . 
Brennan  R.  McLaughlin  and  Miss  Linda  T. 
Lombardo  on  October  1 2, 1 974  in  Weth- 
ersfield,  Connecticut.  Mrs.  McLaughlin  grad- 
uated from  Becker  and  is  a  secretary  at  Blue 
Cross-Blue  Shield  in  Worcester.  Her  hus- 
band works  for  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 

Born:  to  Lt.  and  Mrs.  John  D.  Powers  their 
first  child,  James  Kern,  on  October  22, 1 974. 
Now  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army, 
Powers  was  recently  transferred  from 
Nurnberg  to  Worms,  Germany. 

Samuel  T.  Davis  is  an  industrial  engineer 
at  Sweetheart  Plastics,  Wilmington,  Mass. 
. . .  James  N.  DeVries  is  chairman  of  the 
science  and  mathematics  department  at 

Dayton  (Ohio)  Christian  Schools,  Inc 

Mark  A.  Fritz  serves  as  a  quality  assurance 
engineer  at  Sanders  Associates  in  Nashua, 
N.H —  Neil  C.  Herring  has  joined  the  Gra- 
ham H.  Blake  Agency  in  Bradford,  N.H., 
where  he  is  a  field  representative  for  the 
Berkshire  Life  Insurance  Co.  of  Pittsfield, 
Mass.  Earlier  he  was  sales  manager  in  Brad- 
ford for  a  newspaper  chain  and  served  in  the 
same  capacity  for  wrlh-tv  in  Lebanon. . . . 
Presently  Patrick  F.  Lafayette  is  an  assistant 
project  engineer  at  C.E.  Maguire,  Waltham, 
Mass. .  . .  Kathleen  F.  McCarthy  is  an 
instructor  in  computer  science  at  wpi.  . . . 
Richard  N.  Panton  has  been  promoted  to 
supervisor,  continuous  polymerization,  at 
duPont's  Spruance  Plant,  Richmond,  Va 

John  T.  Poreda  has  joined  the  Ordnance 
Department  at  g.e.  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. . . .  Gus 
Sannicandro,  sim,  of  Milford,  Mass.,  has 
been  elected  chairman  of  the  Industrial 
Development  Commission.  For  the  past 
seven  years  he  has  served  as  secretary  of  the 
IDC.  . .  .  John  E.  Swanson,  now  out  of  the  Air 
Force,  is  working  as  an  analytical  design 
engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  He  also  serves  in  the  Massa- 
chusetts Air  National  Guard  in  Westfield, 
Mass.  and  is  an  F-1 00  pilot. . . .  Bruce  M.  Szy- 
pot,  who  was  released  from  active  duty  in  the 
army  on  July  30,  currently  works  as  an  indus- 
trial engineer  in  the  Industrial  Engineering 
Department  at  Eastman  Kodak  Company  in 
Rochester,  N.Y Donald  A.  Taft  is  a  grad- 
uate student  at  Harvard  Business  School. 
Recently,  as  a  lieutenant  with  the  76th  Engi- 
neer Battalion,  he  was  awarded  the  Army 
commendation  medal  for  service. 


26         :■  nary  1975     WPI  Journal 


The  dreams  of  engineers,  ecologists,  biologists  and  planners 

don't  mean  a  thing  until 

we  make  them  a  reality! 


There  are  people  who  talk  about  a  better  quality  of 
life  and  people  who  do  something  about  it.  The  Corps 
of  Engineers  gives  you  a  chance  to  pitch  in  and  do 
something  important  for  the  protection  of  our  natural 
environment. 

We  need  engineers,  economists,  planners,  landscape 
architects,  and  others  who  are  interested  in  the  broad 
picture,  who  can  bring  a  creative  approach  to  meeting 
changing  public  needs.  It's  a  chance  to  make  your 
know-how  count,  working  as  a  team. 


As  a  Corps  professional,  you'll  apply  all  the  tech- 
niques of  modern  technology — systems  analysis,  com- 
puter technology,  advanced  materials  research,  and 
more — to  the  improvement  of  our  construction  capa- 
bility. And  you'll  be  a  member  of  the  largest  engineer- 
ing/construction team  in  the  world. 

If  you  want  to  get  things  done,  start  by  writing  to  us 
now.  We'll  send  you  all  the  information  you  need  to 
make  a  careei  of  it,  with  us. 

An  equal  opportunity  employer  m/l 


CORPS  OF  ENGINEERS 

Department  of  the  Army,  Washington,  D.  C.  20314 


1973 


1974 


Married:  William  J.  lerardi  III  and  Miss 
Christine  E.  Ketchel  on  November  1 5, 1 974 
in  Hamden,  Connecticut.  The  bride  is  a 
licensed  practical  nurse. .  . .  Donald  H.  Kray 
to  Miss  Kathleen  M.  Sharry  on  October  5, 
1 974  in  Worcester.  Mrs.  Kray  is  an  adminis- 
trative underwriter  for  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty 
Co.  The  groom  is  an  analyst  for  the  same 
company  in  Hartford,  Conn. .  . .  William  B. 
Smith,  Jr.,  and  Miss  Mary  Elizabeth  Magee  in 
Glenbrook,  Connecticut  on  October  1 9, 
1 974.  The  bride  is  a  graduate  of  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College.  She  and  her  hus- 
band are  both  associated  with  the  Putnam 
Trust  Company. . . .  Anthony  R.  Urjil  and  Miss 
Robin  Saltzman  in  Hartford,  Connecticut  on 
November  3,  1974.  Mrs.  Urjil  is  a  Becker 
graduate.  The  groom  is  a  sales  engineer  at 
Morse  Chain  Co. 

Ben  G.  Allen  is  associated  with  Woods 
Hole  (Mass.)  Oceanographic  Service.  . . . 
Crane  D.  Allen  is  presently  an  electronics 
engineer  with  the  Naval  Underwater  Systems 
Center  (n.u.s.c.)  in  New  London,  Conn. 
n.u.s.c.  is  responsible  for  the  development  of 
sophisticated  underwater  detection,  ranging 
and  weapons  systems  for  the  U.S.  Navy.  . .  . 
Philip  N.  Ciarlo  has  been  employed  by  Gen- 
eral Electric  in  San  Jose,  Calif.  Lawrence 
Dzaugis  works  at  Reed  Rolled  Thread  Die 
Co.,  Holden,  Mass. . . .  Bruce  J.  Foster  and 
William  T.  Nutter  are  with  the  Ordnance 
Department  of  General  Electric  in  Pittsfield, 
Mass     .    Robert  C.  Haywood  is  a  proposal 
coordinator  at  Perkin-Elmer  Corp.  (Electro- 
Optics  Div.)  in  Wilton,  Conn. 

Roger  J.  Heinen,  Jr.,  is  a  programmer  for 
Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass. .  . . 
Richard  L.  Kirk  holds  the  post  of  associate 
engineer  at  Galileo  Electro-Optics,  Stur- 
bridge,  Mass. ...  Dale  R.  Ladysh  is  a  techni- 
cal engineer  at  E.I.  duPont  &  Co.,  Memphis, 
Tenn. . . .  Airman  First  Class  Philip  C.  Mazzie 
is  a  member  of  a  unit  that  recently  received 
the  U.S.  Air  Force  Outstanding  Unit  Award. 
He  is  a  telephone  equipment  repairman  at 
Wright-Patterson  afb,  Ohio,  with  the  2046th 
Communications  Group  that  was  cited  for 
meritorious  service.  .     Martin  J.  Sklar  is 
studying  at  Thayer  School,  Dartmouth  Col- 
lege, Hanover,  N.H.       Edward  M.  Small 
works  as  a  junior  engineer  at  Camp  Dresser 
&  McKee  in  Boston.       John  Taylor  writes 
that  he  is  employed  at  the  Echlin  Manufac- 
turing Co.  in  Branford,  Conn.,  where  he 
serves  as  an  automotive  emissions  test  lab 
supervisor. 


Married:  Michael  J.  Boyden  and  Miss  Sandra 
Jo  Bishop  on  August  31 , 1 974  in  Cape  Vin- 
cent, New  York.  John  Young  served  as  best 
man.  Mrs.  Boyden,  a  physical  therapist, 
recently  registered  in  the  state  of  Con- 
necticut, is  a  graduate  of  Russell  Sage.  Her 
husband  is  an  office  engineer  at  a  Stone  & 
Webster  field  office,  Millstone  Nuclear 
Power  Project,  in  Waterford,  Conn.  . . .  Ger- 
ald G.  Buzanoski  to  Miss  Kara  B.  Hogan  in 
October  in  Framingham,  Massachusetts. 
The  bride  is  with  Nisco  Co.,  Cherry  Hill,  N.J. 
and  the  groom  with  General  Water  Com- 
pany, Toms  River,  N.J. 
. . .  Kenneth  Charak  to  Miss  Adrienne  B. 
Lewis  in  West  Hartford,  Connecticut  on 
October  27,  1 974.  Mrs.  Charak  graduated 
from  Southern  Connecticut  State  College 
and  is  employed  by  Midwestern  Indemnity, 
Cincinnati.  Her  husband  is  employed  by 
Procter  &  Gamble. 

Married:  James  K.  Ellsworth  to  Miss  Val- 
erie L.  Molnar  on  September  21 ,  1974  in 
Warrenville,  Connecticut.  The  groom  is  a 
testing  engineer  at  Pratt  &  Whitney,  East 
Hartford,  Conn. .  . .  William  H.  Murwin,  Jr. 
and  Miss  Eileen  D.  Hubbard  on  October  12, 
1 974  in  Oneonta,  New  York.  The  bride  grad- 
uated from  Barrington  College  and  did  grad- 
uate work  at  the  State  University  College  of 
Oneonta  and  the  Presbyterian  School  of 
Christian  Education,  Richmond,  Va.  The 
bridegroom  is  a  computer  programmer  with 
State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.,  Worcester. 
. .  .  John  F.  Noreika  to  Miss  Carole  Lynn 
Sampson  in  Worcester  on  October  5, 1974. 
The  bride  is  employed  at  Morgan  Construc- 
tion Co.  Her  husband  is  a  civil  engineer  at 
Alden  Research  Laboratories,  Holden. . . . 
Stanley  J.  Piekos  to  Miss  Mary  Lou  Geran  on 
September  14,1 974  in  Worcester.  The  bride 
graduated  from  Becker  and  is  a  social  serv- 
ice assistant  in  Randolph.  The  groom  works 
for  Foster  Wheeler  Energy  Corp.,  Livingston, 
N.J. 

Married:  Robert  Trotter  and  Miss  Robin 
Golden  on  October  26, 1974.  Mrs.  Trotter 
graduated  from  Becker.  The  bridegroom  is 
employed  by  American  Bosch/AMBAC  as  a 
project  engineer  and  is  also  working  towards 
his  master's  degree  by  taking  evening 
courses  at  the  University  of  Massachusetts. 
Lee  D.  Turner  and  Miss  Karen  A.  Gagnier 
in  August  in  Jackson,  Michigan.  Leonard 
Brzozowski  served  as  best  man  and  Garry 
Balboni,  Lawrence  Martiniano,  Peter  Tha- 
cher  and  John  Young  as  ushers.  Mrs.  Turner 
is  a  graduate  of  Eastern  Michigan  University. 
Her  husband  is  a  graduate  student  at  Dart- 
mouth.     .  Charles  M.  Waldron  to  Miss  Irene 
B.  Jordan  in  West  Hartford,  Connecticut  on 
October4,  1974.  Mrs  Waldron  is  employed 
by  Badger  Co.,  in  Cambridge.  The  bride- 
groom works  as  an  actuary  for  Union  Mutual 
Life  Insurance  of  Portland,  Maine. .  . .  Robert 
R.  Wood,  Jr.  and  Miss  Kathryn  L.  Wicks 
recently  in  Reading,  Massachusetts.  The 
bride  is  a  junior  at  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts. Her  husband  is  with  Ingersoll-Rand 
in  Wellesley. 


Homoud  A.  Al-Rqobah  is  employed  by  the 
government  of  Kuwait  in  distillation  plants 
which  make  fresh  water  out  of  sea  water. .  . . 
Dennis  A.  Anctil  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Northeastern  University,  Boston. .  . .  Jona- 
than R.  Barnett,  Robert  E.  Lindberg,  Mark  A. 
Wendell,  Danielle  M.  Chouinard  and  Glenn 
E.  Haringa  are  doing  graduate  work  at  wpi. 
. . .  Gary  R.  Bellinger  has  accepted  a  position 
with  Uniroyal  in  Naugatuck,  Conn. . . .  Neil  E. 
Billings  works  at  Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. 
. .  .  James  W.  Bowen  is  with  the  Torrington 
Co.  in  Connecticut. .  . .  John  H.  Canatsoulis 
attends  graduate  school  at  the  University  of 
Michigan.  . .  .  Louis  F.  Ciercielli  works  for 
General  Electric  Co.  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. .  . . 
Keith  C.  Coakley  is  with  Hamilton  Standard, 
Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

Steven  D.  Dettman  has  joined  Norden  Air- 
craft, Norwalk,  Conn. . . .  Robert  C.  DiGio- 
vanni  is  doing  graduate  work  at  wpi.  .  . . 
Mathew  A.  DiPilato  is  a  staff  engineer  at 
Geotechnical  Engineers,  Inc.,  Winchester, 
Mass. .  . .  Robert  O.  Dupuis  has  been 
employed  by  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston.  . . . 
James  F.  Edwards  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  Connecticut  in  Storrs. . . . 
Robert  W.  Flanagan,  Jr.  and  David  O.  Scott 
are  serving  in  the  U.S.  Army.  . .  .  William  F. 
Frazier  and  Paul  E.  Nordstrom  attend  gradu- 
ate school  at  Northeastern  University  in  Bos- 
ton. . .  .  Joseph  H.  Gaffen  works  for  United 
Engineers  &  Constructors,  Inc.,  Boston. . . . 
Western  Electric,  New  York  City,  has 
employed  Howard  B.  Greene. . .  .  William  G. 
Gunther  has  accepted  employment  at 
George  Schmitt  &  Co.  in  Branford,  Conn.  . .  . 
Alan  R.  Hahnel  is  employed  by  United  Engi- 
neers and  Constructors,  Inc.,  in  Boston. . . . 
Dan  Hartford  serves  as  a  programmer  at 
Syntex  Corp.,  Palo  Alto,  Calif. 

Lawrence  R.  Hayden  is  a  graduate  student 
at  wpi.  . . .  Ralph  N.  Isabella  is  a  methods 
engineer  at  Ingersoll-Rand  in  Athens,  Pa. . . . 
Richard  J.  Karpf  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Columbia  University  in  New  York  City.  . . . 
Chester  A.  Kokoszka  has  been  employed  by 
Northeast  Utilities,  Wethersfield,  Conn. . . . 
James  A.  Kudzal  has  enrolled  in  graduate 
school  at  the  University  of  New  Hampshire. 
. .  .  Bruce  Lackey  holds  the  post  of  regional 
sales  manager  at  GCA/McPherson 
Instrument  Corp.  in  Acton,  Mass.  . .  .  Ronald 
M.  Lafreniere  works  for  the  town  of  Marl- 
boro, Mass. .  . .  Gretchen  Lapidus  Lobo  is 
doing  graduate  work  at  m.i.t.  . .  .  George  M. 
Leanna,  Jr.  holds  the  position  of  engineering 
manager  at  M.  G.  Poulin  Construction  Co., 
Inc.,  Sterling,  Mass. .  . .  Edward  J.  Ledden  is 
studying  at  Tufts  University  School  of  Den- 
tistry in  Boston. 


28  WPI  Journal 


We  design  and  build  them.  And  we  also  roll  the  steel  plates  they're  made  from. 


Bethlehem  has  lots  of  projects  "on 
the  ways" — not  all  are  related  to 
shipbuilding.  And  there  are  plenty 
of  opportunities  for  engineers  to 
launch  meaningful  careers. 
We  need  a  good  crew  to  keep  mov- 
ing full  speed  ahead — in  shipbuild- 
ing and  ship  repair  work,  in  ship 


engineering  and  design;  in  produc- 
tion supervision,  in  quality  and  pro- 
cess control  assignments  in  our 
steel  plants;  and  in  many  other 
technical  areas.  Why  not  explore 
your  chances  of  signing  on  with 
Bethlehem? 

Watch  for  our  recruiter's  visit. 
Meantime,  pick  up  a  copy  of  our 


booklet  "Bethlehem  Steel's  Loop 
Course"  at  your  placement  office. 
Or  write:  Director — College  Rela- 
tions, Bethlehem  Steel  Corporation, 
Bethlehem,  PA  18016. 


BETHlfEHEM 
STEEL 


an  equal  opportunity 
employer 


Dr.  George  K.  Lewis  serves  as  a  research 
engineer  in  cardiology  at  Searle  Co.,  Des 
Plaines,  Illinois. . . .  Jeffrey  C.  Lindberg  is  a 
graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Virginia 
in  Charlottesville. .  . .  Bruce  R.  Lyon  works  at 
Texas  Instrument  Co.  in  Dallas,  Texas. . .  . 
2/Lt.  James  J.  Martin,  a  student  pilot  in  the 
U.S.  Air  Force,  is  located  in  Valdosta,  Ga. .  . . 
Wayne  A.  Massie  has  been  employed  by 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.  . .  .  William  E. 
McBride  recently  joined  Municipal  Light  & 
Power  in  Anchorage,  Alaska.  . .  .  Gerald  P. 
McCullough  is  a  factory  and  field  engineer  at 
General  Electric  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. . . .  Ste- 
ven L.  McGrath  is  employed  at  the  University 
of  Pennsylvania  Computer  Center  in  Phila- 
delphia. . .  .  Richard  E.  Mellor  works  for  g.e. 
in  Schenectady,  NY.  . .  .  Angelo  J.  Mitsis  is 
with  New  England  Electric,  Westboro,  Mass. 
. .  .  Mark  E.  Munson  serves  as  a  research 
assistant  at  Maine  Medical  Center  in 
Portland. 

Harvey  B.  Neilson  has  joined  Raytheon 
Co.,  Sudbury,  Mass. . . .  Gary  E.  Nunes  iswith 
Stone  and  Webster  in  Boston. .  . .  Janice  E. 
Painter  teaches  biology  in  Wilton,  Conn.  . .  . 
John  Palitsch  currently  works  for  Wyman 
Gordon.  .     Thomas  M.  Palumbo  attends 
graduate  school  at  Syracuse  (N.  Y.)  Univer- 
sity  Harry  Paskali  is  associated  with  Uni- 

royal,  Inc.,  Naugatuck,  Conn.  . . .  Lawrence 
D.  Patty  works  at  Newport  News  (Va.)  Ship- 
building. . . .  Richard  M.  Peterson  is  a  gradu- 
ate student  at  Princeton  University.  . .  .  Peter 
J.  Petroski  attends  graduate  school  at  Pur- 
due University,  Lafayette,  Ind. .  . .  Robert 
Plonsky  recently  joined  Monsanto  Co.  . .  . 
Neil  Poulin  iswith  ibm.    . .  George  F.  Ranney 
serves  as  a  process  engineer  for  E.I.  duPont 
de  Nemours  &  Co.,  Belle,  W.  Va. 

Stephen  J.  Remen  is  associated  with 
United  Illuminating  in  New  Haven,  Conn.  . .  . 
Elizabeth  Ronchetti  works  for  Western  Elec- 
tric Co. . . .  James  F.  Rubino  is  with  Torring- 
ton  (Conn.)  Co.  . .  .  Carl  D.  Rydman  has 
joined  Chas.  T.  Main,  Boston.  ...  Dr.  Alice 
Ann  Sayler  serves  as  a  postdoctoral 
research  associate  in  the  chemistry  depart- 
ment at  Cornell  University  in  Ithaca,  N.Y. .  . . 
Stephen  R.  Skutel  has  been  employed  by 
State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.,  Worcester. 

Robert  D.  Slack  is  a  development  engi- 
neer at  Fiber  Industries,  Inc.,  Salisbury,  N.C. 

.  Matteo  Solitro  is  an  employee  at  Mon- 
santo Co.  in  Indian  Orchard,  Mass. . . .  Wil- 
liam J.  Stafford  serves  as  an  engineer  in 
training  at  Foundation  Consulting  Engi- 
neers, Inc.,  Columbia,  S.C.  He  is  also  a  grad- 
uate teaching  assistant  at  the  University  of 
South  Carolina        Richard  M.  Takanen  has 
been  employed  by  General  Electric  Co.,  Cin- 
cinnati, Ohio. .  .    William  P.  Tanguay  is  with 
Hammond  Organ  Co.,  Chicago,  III.  He  is 
going  to  graduate  school  evenings  at  Illinois 
Institute  of  Technology.  .  .    David  M.  Tel- 
xeira  does  graduate  work  at  Stanford  (Calif.) 
University      .  Jay  K.  Thayer  is  now 
employed  at  Yankee  Atomic  Electric  Co  , 
Westboro,  Mass        Stephen  N.  Thibodeau 
attends  graduate  school  at  the  University  of 
Washington  in  Seattle        Stephen  J.  Yan- 
kum  does  graduate  work  at  Northeastern 
University        Glenn  S.  Yee  is  a  sales  engi- 
neering trainee  for  General  Electric  in  New 
York  City 


George  K.  Howe,  '01 ,  passed  away  on  Octo- 
ber 27, 1974  in  Savannah,  Georgia. 

He  was  born  on  July  5, 1 877,  in  Worcester 
and  graduated  with  a  BSME  from  WPI  in 
1 901 .  During  his  lifetime  he  was  an  instructor 
at  Oklahoma  A  &  M  College;  a  professor  of 
mathematics  at  Atlanta  University,  where  he 
also  served  as  acting  dean;  and  treasurer 
and  business  manager  at  Tougaloo  College. 
Later  he  was  associated  with  Bell  Aircraft 
Corp.  and  Lockheed  Aircraft  in  Marietta,  Ga., 
from  which  he  retired  in  1954. 

Mr.  Howe  belonged  to  the  Mathematical 
Association  of  America.  He  wasthe  cousin  of 
Edward  A.  Hanff,  '10. 

Harrison  G.  Brown,  '12,  secretary-treasurer 
of  the  Tech  Old-Timers  Club, 7  passed  away 
on  November  1 2, 1 974,  in  Worcester.  He  was 
84  years  old. 

Born  on  December  30,  1889  in  Lowell, 
Mass.,  he  later  graduated  with  a  bs  in  electri- 
cal engineering  from  wpi.  Following  gradu- 
ation he  joined  the  Western  Electric  Co.  as 
an  installer.  During  his  career  he  was  associ- 
ated with  General  Electric  Co.,  Worcester 
Electric  Light  Co.,  Reed  &  Prince  Mfg.  Co. 
and  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  From  1923  until 
he  retired  in  1 956,  he  was  a  standards  engi- 
neer for  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corp.  in 
Worcester. 

Mr.  Brown  was  secretary-treasurer  of  the 
Hadwen  Park  Improvement  Association  and 
a  past  commander  of  the  Sons  of  Union  Vet- 
erans. A  member  of  the  Wesley  United  Meth- 
odist Church  for  65  years,  he  also  belonged 
to  the  Masons.  He  was  the  father  of  Harrison 
K.  Brown,  '39. 

Albert  L.  Humphrey,  '12,  died  on  June  1 7, 
1974,  in  Middleboro,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  on  May  5,  1889  in  Rochester, 
Mass.  After  graduating  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer from  wpi,  he  worked  as  an  inspector  for 
the  Factory  Insurance  Association  in  Hart- 
ford, Conn.,  later  holding  the  same  position 
with  Phoenix  Insurance  Co.  of  Hartford.  For 
over  35  years  he  operated  his  own  insurance 
and  poultry-raising  business  in  Rochester. 


30     rebruary1975     WPIJoumal 


At  Western  Electric, 
we  put  science  to  work. 


Microelectronic 

components  are 

manufactured  in 

contam  ination-free 

environments. 


Like  transistors 
before  them,  integrated 
circuits  are  spreading 
into  every  nook  and 
cranny  of  the 
Bell  System. 


Managing  all  this 
is  a  new  breed  of  talented  people.  Whatever 
their  specialties,  they  also  have  to  be 
comfortable  working  in  other  fundamental 
disciplines  once  left  only  to  "pure 
scientists".  At  Western  Electric,  we  put 
science  to  work. 


Mathematical 

modeling  has 

helped  predict 
the  behavior 
ofplastics 
in  injection  molding. 


Western  Electric 


We  make  things  that  bring  people  closer. 


Ernest  A.  Peel,  '20,  a  retired  president  of  the 
former  Plantations  Bank  of  Rhode  Island, 
died  on  November  1 3, 1 974,  in  Warwick  at 
the  age  of  76. 

He  served  as  president  of  the  Plantations 
Bank  from  1 961  until  his  retirement  in  1 963. 
His  financial  career  included  work  in  the 
investment  field.  He  joined  an  investment 
firm  shortly  before  the  1 929  stock  market 
crash  and  stayed  in  the  business  through  the 
depression. 

He  was  born  in  Fall  River,  Mass.  on  Janu- 
ary 1 2, 1 898,  later  studying  at  wpi.  He  was 
first  associated  with  the  Rhode  Island  Hospi- 
tal Trust  Co.  as  a  clerk,  then  became  office 
manager  at  MacColl,  Fraser  &  Wheeler  in 
Providence.  In  1 941  he  was  named  comp- 
troller of  the  Morris  Plan  Company  of  Rhode 
Island,  a  firm  which  at  the  time  dominated  the 
consumer  credit  business.  Three  years  later 
the  company  converted  to  the  Morris  Plan 
Bank  of  Rhode  Island  with  Mr.  Peel  as  vice 
president-treasurer.  In  1947  the  bank 
changed  its  name  to  Plantations  and  he  was 
named,  vice  president,  then  director  and 
president. 

Mr.  Peel,  a  member  of  ato,  was  past  presi- 
dent of  the  Consumers  Bank  Association  of 
New  England  and  the  Providence  Clearing 
House.  Also  he  had  been  a  vice  president  of 
the  Rhode  Island  Bankers  Association  and  a 
trustee  for  the  Big  Brothers  of  Rhode  Island. 

Charles  C.  Hutchins,  '21 ,  died  on  September 
16, 1974,  in  Ridgway,  Pennsylvania  at  the 
age  of  74. 

He  was  born  in  Boston  on  January  1 1 , 
1 900.  After  receiving  his  bsee  from  wpi,  he 
was  associated  with  Westinghouse  Electric 
and  Manufacturing  Company  in  Pittsburgh, 
Pa.,  where  he  was  a  designer  of  generators 
and  motors.  During  his  career  he  was 
employed  as  principal  designer  at  Elliott 
Company  in  Pittsburgh.  Later  he  was  general 
manager  of  the  Ridgway  Division  of  Elliott. 

During  1945  he  was  on  a  special  mission 
with  the  Joint  Intelligence  Objectives  Agency 
in  Germany,  Switzerland  and  France.  Later 
he  was  a  consulting  engineer  for  various 
companies. 

Mr  Hutchins  served  with  International 
Executive  Service  Corps,  Trafo  Equip- 
mentos,  Ltd  of  Porto  Alegre,  Brazil  in  1967 
and  in  1970,  1971  and  1972  in  Tunis,  Tunisia 
with  sac. em.  He  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Rotary  Club  in  Ridgway 


Kenneth  G.  Knapp,  '28,  died  at  his  home  in 
Bradenton,  Florida  on  September  8, 1 974. 

He  was  born  on  January  7, 1 906,  in 
Worcester  and  graduated  from  wpi  as  an 
electrical  engineer  in  1928.  He  had  been 
employed  at  Westinghouse  Electric,  Chi- 
copee  Falls,  Mass.;  Bell  Telephone  Labora- 
tories, New  York  City;  and  Western  Electric 
Co.,  Allentown,  Pa.,  where  he  was  a  planning 
engineer. 

Alton  B.  Wyman,  '33,  died  in  Chillicothe, 
Ohio  on  September  9, 1 974,  at  the  age  of  62. 

He  was  born  in  East  Burke,  Vt.,  on  May  2, 
1 91 2  and  graduated  as  a  civil  engineer  from 
wpi  in  1 933.  During  his  career  he  was  associ- 
ated with  D.  E.  Gardner  Co.,  S.  Monroe  & 
Son,  and  C.  A.  Yeager,  contracting  firms  in 
Portsmouth,  Ohio. 

From  1938  until  1941  he  served  as  a  plan- 
ning engineer  for  the  city  of  Portsmouth, 
later  becoming  an  architectural  engineer  in 
Ft.  Knox,  Ky.  He  was  a  World  War  II  veteran 
and  a  past  secretary-treasurer  of  the  J.  H. 
Butt  Company,  Inc.,  in  Chillicothe. 

Mr.  Wyman,  a  registered  professional 
engineer  and  surveyor  in  Ohio,  belonged  to 
Phi  Sigma  Kappa,  Tau  Beta  Pi,  asce,  nspe 
and  Sigma  Xi. 

Robert  N.  Pirn,  '44,  of  Media,  Pennsylvania, 
passed  away  on  April  23,  1 974. 

A  native  of  Philadelphia,  he  was  born  on 
May  29, 1 921 .  For  a  number  of  years  he  was 
associated  with  Sun  Oil  Co.  in  Philadelphia. 
He  was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
fraternity. 


Arthur  H.  Zefting,  '44,  of  Rochester,  New 
York  died  on  September  17,  1974,  following 
a  three-month  illness.  He  was  53. 

He  was  born  in  Hartford,  Conn.,  attended 
Hillyer  Junior  College  and  was  graduated 
from  wpi  as  an  electrical  engineer.  He  served 
with  the  U.S.  Navy  and  for  five  years  was 
employed  by  the  National  Bureau  of  Stand- 
ards. During  most  of  his  career  he  was  in 
engineering  management  with  General 
Dynamics/ Electronics. 

Mr.  Zefting  belonged  to  ire  and  the 
National  Security  Industrial  Association.  He 
was  a  past  vice  president  of  the  Rochester- 
Genesee  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

G.  Wayne  Gibbs,  Jr.,  '70  sim,  died  on  Octo- 
ber 28, 1 974  in  Worcester.  He  was  48  years 
old. 

He  was  sales  manager  for  David  Clark  Co., 
Inc.,  Worcester,  since  1958.  A  native  of 
Fitchburg,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on  October 
1 2, 1 926.  He  belonged  to  the  Air  Force  Asso- 
ciation of  Worcester  and  served  as  treasurer 
of  Boy  Scout  Troop  1 78  in  Holden. 


32  iary197b     WPI  Journal 


What's  happening  at  WPI? 


Athletics 

(*designates  home  games) 

Basketball 

March    1     Clark,  8  pm* 

1 0     (women's)  Assumption,  6  pm 

Swimming 

March  7-9   New  Englands  at  Brown 


Skiing 

March  1-2 

Suicide  Six  at  Babson 

Track 

February  28- 

March 

1 

(indoor)  New  Englands  at  Tufts  and  Northeastern 

April 

8 

Coast  Guard,  3  pm* 

12 

Bentley,  Lowell,  Nichols,  2  pm* 

16 

Worcester  State,  Clark,  Assumption,  3:30  pm* 

19 

Colby,  Norwich,  2  pm* 

26 

M.I.T.,  12:30  pm 

30 

Tufts,  3:30  pm* 

Golf 

April 

4 

Coast  Guard,  1  pm* 

10 

Trinity,  1  pm* 

15 

Bentley,  Providence,  1  pm 

17 

Babson.  M.I.T.,  12:30pm* 

21 

Holy  Cross,  Assumption,  1  pm* 

23 

Amherst,  UMass,  1  pm 

25 

Clark,  Tufts,  1  pm 

29 

Lowell  Tech,  1  pm 

Tennis 

April 

8 

Clark,  2  pm* 

10 

Assumption,  2  pm 

12 

Bentley,  3  pm 

16 

Holy  Cross,  l:30pm* 

19 

Babson,  2  pm* 

21 

Coast  ( ruard,  2  pm* 

Baseball 

April  11 
12 
16 
18 
19 
22 
26 
29 


Wesleyan,  3  pm* 
Clark,  2  pm 
Brandeis,  3  pm 
Trinity,  3  pm* 
Hartford,  1  pm* 
A.I.C.,3pm 
Lowell  Tech,  1  pm 
Tufts,  3:30  pm* 


Films 

(all  in  Alden  Memorial  Auditorium) 

March   4  "Shoot  the  Piano  Player,"  7:30  pm 

March  1 1  "Socrates,"  7:30  pm 

April      8  "A  King  in  New  York,"  with  Charles  Chaplin,  7:30  pm 

April    15  "Conrack,"  7:30  pm 

Concerts 

March    3     Alexander's  Feast,  medieval  and  renaissance  music, 

Alden,  8  pm 
March    6     Steve  Dacri's  magic,  Riley  Hall  Coffeehouse,  8  pm 
March    8     Glee  Club  with  Smith  College,  Alden,  8  pm 
April    12     Glee  Club  with  Skidmore  College,  Alden,  8:15  pm 
April    14     Hersh  and  Montgomery,  ragtime  and  salon  music  in 

the  Grand  Tradition,  Alden,  8  pm 

WPI  Colloquium 

March    5     "The  National  Wind  Generator  Program,"  Ronald 

L.  Thomas,  head  of  the  federal  Wind  Energy  Office, 

Olin  107,4:30  pm 
April      2     "The  Role  of  Technology,"  Dr.  Edward  Teller  of  the 

University  of  California,  Olin  107,4:30  pm 
May       7     "The  Hydrogen  Fuel  Economy,"  Dr.  Lawrence  W. 

Jones  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  Olin  107,4:30  pm 

Other  notable  occasions 

February  28- 

Marchl       Winter  Weekend 
March  20- 

April  2         No  classes,  between  terms 
April  18-19    Spring  Weekend 


APRIL  1975 


UlPrro 


O 


''  '  *  ■  -  *>'HLfe^"- 


*VgMtt 


UIPpXUMli 


Vol.  78,  No.  6 


April  1975 


3    On  the  hill 

Honors,  awards,  a  new  face,  and  a  difference  of  opinion 

5    Feedback 

7     Sports 

Wrestling  promise  from  a  first-year  student,  and  highlights  of  the 
sports  season  past 

10    A  private  university  in  a  public  world 

Higher  education  in  Massachusetts  —  the  privately  supported 
institutions  and  the  tax-supported  schools,  how  they  get  along  in 
increasingly  difficult  times. 

15    Your  class  and  others 

24     Roses  are  red,  violets  are  blue,  sugar  is  sweet,  and  lemons  are 
too! 

28     Completed  careers 

31     Nominees  for  Alumni  Trustee  state  their  position 


d/'for.H.  Russell  Kay 

lumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

ublications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
-.,  '51 ,  chairman:  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57,  Rob- 
1 C.  Gosling,  '68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22; 
oger  N.  Perry,  Jr.,  '45;  Rev.  Edward  I. 
wanson,  '45 

es/gn.H.  Russell  Kay 

/pography:  Typesetting  Service,  Provi- 
jnce,  Rhode  Island 

■inting:  Davis  Press,  Worcester, 
assachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding  edi- 
torial content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  Journal,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609 
(phone  61 7-753-1 411). 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  for  the  Alumni 
Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute. Copyright  ©  1 975  by  Worcester  Poly- 
technic Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  Journal  is  published  six  times  a  year 
in  August,  September,  October,  Decembe/, 
February,  and  April.  Second  Class  postage 
paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts.  Post- 
master: Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alumni 
Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  Insti- 
tute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01 609. 


WPI  Alumni  Association 

President:  W.  J.  Bank,  "46 

Vice  President:  F.  S.  Harvey,  '37;  W.  A. 
Julian,  '49 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.  J.  Hebert,  '66 

Past  President:  I.J.  Donahue,  Jr.  '44 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B. 
E.  Hosmer,  '61 ;  D.  F.  O'Grady,  '30;  D.  M. 
McNamara,  '55;  L.  Polizzotto,  '70 

Fund  Board:  W.  J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.  H.  White,  '41 ;  G.  A.  Anderson,  '51 ;  H.  I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.  H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.  J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/1 


JLr* 


■■ 


JMHM 


to 


MB) 


in 


by  the  editor 

Skull-duggery  on  campus 

The  Skull,  WPI's  undergraduate  honor 
society,  has  tapped  a  new  group  of 
people  for  membership  this  year,  and 
they  include  two  of  WPI's  adminis- 
trative staff  with  whom  students  have 
been  in  daily  contact  for  many  years. 
The  two  are  Vinnie  Peterson,  the  cam- 
pus printer,  and  Nils  Hagberg,  night 
supervisor  of  Buildings  &  Grounds. 
Nils,  who  has  been  associated  with 
WPI  for  40  years,  recalls  his  notice.  "A 
bunch  of  Skull  members  approached 
me,  and  I  figured  they  wanted  to  get  into 
the  tower  in  Boynton  so  I  reached  for 
my  keys.  Then  someone  whacked  me 
across  the  back,  I  turned,  and  there  was 
Bob  Wagner  grinning  from  ear  to  ear, 
saying  'Welcome  to  the  Club.' " 


Will  pirg  be  purged  once 
again? 

There  has  been  a  strong  movement  on 
campus  this  year  to  establish  a  chapter 
of  Mass  pirg.  The  initials  stand  for  Pub- 
lic Interest  Research  Group,  and  the 
organization  is  an  outgrowth  of  Ralph 
Nader's  consumer  movement  lead- 
ership of  the  late  1960s.  This  is  the  sec- 
ond attempt  to  establish  a  pirg  chapter 
on  campus;  an  election  held  three  years 
ago  failed  to  muster  the  necessary 
majority  of  student  votes  in  support. 
Basically,  pirg  (which  has  twenty- 
three  state  organizations  across  the 
:ountry)  relies  on  the  collection  of  $1 
oer  student  per  term  to  support  a  variety 
Df  research  activities  dealing  with 


injustices  to  the  consumer.  The  organi- 
zation has  tackled  a  wide  range  of  issues, 
from  attacking  the  ban  on  advertising 
prescription  drugs,  to  fighting  super- 
highway construction  without  appropri- 
ate environmental  impact  studies,  to 
opposing  the  retail  sale  of  toys  which 
have  been  proved  unsafe. 

The  $4  per  student  fee  has  triggered  a 
very  vocal  opposition.  The  fee,  which  is 


to  be  automatically  added  to  the  Student 
Activities  Fee  twice  a  year,  is  refun- 
dable to  individual  students  who  do  not 
wish  to  participate.  This  "negative  op- 
tion" feature  has  been  decried  as  "guar- 
anteeing membership"  to  a  campus 
organization,  even  from  students  who 
don't  wish  to  be  involved  but  who  don't 
make  the  necessary  request  to  get  their 
money  back. 


Romeo  Moruzzi  gets  Trustees'  Award 

There  are  many  ways  of  recognizing  the  efforts  and  achievements  of  faculty  mem- 
bers: promotion  and  tenure,  of  course,  and  appointment  to  an  endowed  faculty  chair. 
But  perhaps  the  most  treasured  of  these  at  WPI  is  the  single  award  which  is  made 
annually  -  the  Trustees'  Award  for  Outstanding  Teaching.  This  award  more  than 
any  other  affirms  the  high  regard  in  which  teaching  is  held  at  WPI.  It  carries  an  hon- 
orarium of  $500  and  permanent  recognition  on  an  engraved  plaque  and  photographic 
display  in  Boynton  Hall. 

To  no  one's  real  surprise  and  to  the  delight  of  most,  the  1975  award  has  been  given 
to  electrical  engineering  professor  Romeo  L.  Moruzzi. 

A  WIT  faculty  member  since  1954,  Moruzzi  was  instrumental  in  the  faculty  team 
which  designed  the  WPI  Plan  in  the  late  1960s.  In  addition,  he  served  as  acting  dean 
of  faculty  in  1972-73  when  M.  L.  "Cookie"  Price  retired  early  for  health  reasons. 
Although  serving  only  temporarily  (by  his  own  wishes),  his  leadership  was  crucial  in 
implementing  the  WPI  Plan  at  a  time  when  transition  from  the  old  system  was  really 
just  beginning,  and  every  day  brought  a  fresh  crop  of  problems  and  headaches.  His  real 
love,  though,  was  and  is  teaching,  and  in  this  regard  he  exemplifies  the  spirit  and  the 
strength  of  WPI. 

When  dean  of  faculty  Ray  Bolz  announced  the  award  at  a  recent  faculty  meeting, 
Romeo  was  given  a  standing  ovation. 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/3 


Proponents  of  the  pirg  chapter 
believe  its  presence  will  increase  the 
effectiveness  of  much  interactive  proj- 
ect work  by  providing  a  statewide 
framework  in  which  the  results  of  stu- 
dent work  can  be  carried  forward  in 
terms  of  legislation  and  public 
information. 

As  this  issue  of  the  journal  goes  to 
press,  the  question  is  still  undecided. 


i  "**"" 

iHyi 

4  > 

New  face  in  the  alumni  office 

To  help  with  the  greatly  expanded  range 
of  services  provided  to  alumni  by  the 
Alumni  Association,  Michael  A.  Ahearn 
has  joined  the  University  Relations 
Office  as  assistant  to  Association  secre- 
tary-treasurer Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66. 

A  graduate  of  Amherst  College,  Mike 
received  an  mba  from  Boston  College 
last  December.  He  will  be  working  with 
many  of  the  newer  programs  and  serv- 
ices of  the  Association,  including  group 
travel  arrangements,  the  Alumni  Fund 
and  the  Phonothons,  chapter  meeting 
arrangements,  an  alumni  admissions 
program,  and  alumni  placement. 


The  Kaplan  Confrontation 

The  following  letter  appeared  in  the 
March  4  issue  of  the  student  weekly 
Newspeak. 

To  the  editors:  For  the  promotion  of  an 
expanded  enrollment  which  in  turn 
necessitated  an  expanded  curriculum, 
and  for  the  sake  of  the  subversive  liber- 
als' love  for  drama  and  classical  music,  a 
new  system  (the  Plan)  was  implemented 
at  WPI.  The  academic  excellence  of  WPI, 
attained  through  over  1 00  years  of 
inspired  and  devoted  diligence,  became 
the  sacrificial  lamb  to  the  new  system. 
The  writer  believes  this  new  system  of  the 
subversive  liberals  actually  does  under- 
mine the  time-tested  academic  excel- 
lence of  the  physical  sciences, 
mathematics,  and  engineering  depart- 
ments. WPI  is  becoming  an  educational 
institution  which  is  sacrificing  quality 
(i.e.,  academic  excellence  achieved 
through  concentration  in  a  limited 
sphere)  for  quantity  (i  .e. ,  a  broadened 
and  diluted  curriculum  which  caters  to 
the  taste  of  subversive  liberals  and  atthe 
same  time  vitiates  the  established  aca- 
demic foundation.  One  student  letter 
states:  "subversive  liberal  arts  type 
people  ...  we  must  get  rid  of  these 
people. ' '  This  student  statement  provides 
a  viable  solution  for  arresting  the  incipient 
decay.  A  purge  might  be  necessary.  WPI 
mightthen  be  able  to  reestablish  its 
shaken  academic  excellence  and  con- 
sequently reestablish  its  once  proud  role 
as  a  constructively  progressive  force 
within  the  global  society. 

Another  student  letter  states:  '  'any  new 
system  will  have  problems  "In  the  case 
of  WPI's  new  system,  that  is  an  under- 
statement. The  most  serious  problem  is, 
as  stated  above,  the  vitiation  of  the  long- 
established  academic  foundation.  The 
expansion  and  liberalization  of  both  the 
curriculum  and  student  body  has  created 
the  greatest  identity  crisis  in  the  history  of 
WPI.  The  change  in  the  methodology  of 
teaching  —  from  a  classical  approach  to  a 
"do  your  own  thing"  approach  —  has 
also  contributed  to  WPI's  identity  crisis. 
An  alumnus  returning  to  WPI  could  right- 
fully wonder  if  in  essence  it  is  still  the  WPI 


he  knew,  respected,  and  loved.  For  after 
100  years,  WPI  is  no  longer  WPI. 

Another  problem  is  that  money,  money, 
and  more  money  is  continually  needed  to 
feed  what  seems  to  be  a  self-con- 
suming expansion.  Just  how  much 
money  should  alumni  pour  into  a  new  sys- 
tem —  an  untested  system  —  a  system 
which  could  be  an  unattainable  pipe 
dream?The  expansion  caused  by  the 
new  system  has  also  created  an  unparal- 
leled strain  of  the  1 00-year-old  symbiotic 
relationship  between  WPI  and  the  city  of 
Worcester.  Another  problem. 

To  conclude,  the  writer  believes  that 
WPI  must  do  some  real  soul-searching. 
Admitting  one's  mistake  is  painful  but  not 
to  do  so  could  be  catastrophic. 

-Marshall Kaplan,  CHE.  67 

The  following  letter  has  been  selected 
from  several  student  responses  to  Mr. 
Kaplan's  letter. 

To  the  editors:  After  reading  Marshall 
Kaplan's  letter,  I  only  wish  I  could  laugh. 
But  I  can't.  Kaplan  is  attempting  tojudge 
a  program  whose  benefits  he  can't 
understand. 

Certainly,  the  Plan's  roots  were  eco- 
nomic in  nature.  In  a  time  of  economic  dif- 
ficulty, a  school  needs  something  to  stand 
out  from  the  others.  But  if  the  Plan  truly 
downgraded  the  school,  why  would  it 
encourage  students  to  attend  it7  Stu- 
dents seeking  an  easier  workload  can  go 
to  Worcester  Junior  College. 

Projects  in  Washington  are  not  "vaca- 
tions." Knowing  aformula  is  nice,  buta 
five-year-old  can  memorize  a  derivative. 
The  purpose  of  projects  is  to  apply  the 
knowledge  gained  in  the  classroom,  and 
application  is  what  the  "real  world"  is  all 
about. 

Far  from  ending  1 00  years  of  excel- 
lence, WPI  has  ended  a  1 00  year  rut.  WPI 
was  founded  knowing  the  importance  of 
application;  that's  why  the  Washburn 
Shops  were  built.  Nootherengineering 
school  of  its  day  shared  this  philosophy. 
The  plan  is  simply  updating  this  idea  to 
the  1970s. 

WPI  realized  the  need  for  a  change 
through  [among  other  things]  a  meeting 
with  [an  industrial  organization],  "How 


I 


4/ April  1975     WPI  Journal 


can  we  make  our  scientists  and  engineers 
better?  the  question  was  asked.  [The 
firm]  stated  that,  certainly,  engineers 
knewtormulas,  but  they  didn't  know  how 
to  apply  them,  they  didn't  know  how  to 
work  with  others,  and,  most  importantly, 
they  didn't  know  how  to  think. 

Thinking  is  important  in  today'scom- 
plexworld.  MemorizingXhe  circuitfora 
1 6K  bit  ram  will  do  no  one  any  good  since 
it  will  probably  be  obsolete  by  the  time  of 
graduation.  Understanding  how  the  cir- 
cuit was  developed  has  lasting  value. 
Knowing  some  basics,  and  being  able  to 
think  so  that  one  can  derive  more,  is  far 
more  valuable  than  knowing  everything 
as  it  exists  today. 

And  what  of  the  liberal  arts?  Engineers 
must  know  engineering  eight  hours  a  day. 
But  they  must  be  human  beings  all 
twenty-four.  A  robot  or  a  computer  is  pro- 
grammed only  with  what  it  needs  to  know 
to  perform  its  function.  A  human,  to  be 
human,  must  have  more  than  a  "func- 
tion." As  a  45-year-old  Massachusetts 
computer  programmer  said  in  a  Boston 
Globe  interview:  "I'm  trapped —  I  like 
the  people  I  work  with  . . .  it's  just  that  I 
don't  care  about  it.  I  spend  eight  hours  a 
day,  five  days  a  week  doing  . .  .a 
nebulous  sort  of  project  that  I  feel  can 
never  be  accurately  resolved.  . .  .What's 
wrong  with  just  being  alive? . . .  What 
we'redoing  is  meaningless.  ...  I  wantto 
be  able  to  look  at  my  watch  and  have  it  be 
5  o'clock  and  not  realize  where  the  time 
went." 

George  Rostky,  editor-in-chief  of  Elec- 
tronic Design,  said  in  his  February  1 5, 
1975,  editorial,  "The  Foreign  Engineer": 
"European  engineers  have  great  respect 
for  American  engineers  —  as  engineers. 
But  they  find  it  hard  to  believe  that  an 
American  engineer  might  read  a  book 
without  equations.  They  can't  picture  an 
American  engineer  reading  great  liter- 
ature, listening  to  great  music  or  admiring 

great  art That's  rather  sad. ' ' 

Keep  up  thegreat  image,  Marshall 
Kaplan!  It's  what  your  education  trained 
you  for . . .  not  what  mine  is  preparing  me 
f  ■    for. 

—Gary  Davis,  '78 


Coombsie  recalled . . . 

Editor:  As  one  of  the  two  hundred  odd 
men  who  first  came  in  contact  with 
"Coombsie"  in  the  fall  of  191 1 1  greatly 
enjoyed  the  fine  article  by  Carl  A.  Keyser 
'39  which  appeared  in  the  December  jour- 
nal. This  article  brought  back  many  treas- 
ured memories  of  this  stalwartperson. 
Probably  never  in  the  history  of  wpi  has  any 
one  member  of  the  faculty  made  greater 
impact  on  the  minds  and  hearts  of  Tech 
men  than  Zelotes  W.  Coombs.  His  manners 
were  sometimes  brusque  but  never  unkind. 
They  were  invariably  intermingled  with  a 
ready  and  infectious  smile. 

Well  remembered  are  his  lectures  and 
classes.  He  used  to  remark  periodically,  "I 
am  pleased  to  report  that  the  freshman 
themes  are  coming  in  with  commendable 
regularity."  One  of  these  themes  which  was 
required  writing  for  the  freshman  course 
was  the  perennial  "Who  I  Am  and  Why  I 
Came  to  the  Institute. "  Also  recalled  is  the 
mannerism,  which  many  will  remember, 
which  "Coombsie"  had  in  moments  of 
thought  or  meditation  of  placing  the  index 
finger  of  one  hand  alongside  his  nose  in  a 
characteristic  personal  posture. 

"Coombsie"  was  adopted  by  the  Class  of 
19 1 5  as  an  honorary  class  member  and  for 
many  years  the  class  emblem  was  his 
famous  umbrella.  This  umbrella  figured 
prominently  in  an  abortive  class  "rush" 
which  occured  on  the  front  steps  of  Boynton 
Hall.  The  freshman  class  (1915)  had  just 
completed  its  first  class  meeting  in  Boynton 
Hall  under  the  friendly  auspices  of  the  jun- 
ior class.  It  so  happened  that  the  soph- 
omores had,  several  days  earlier,  issued 
rules  for  the  freshmen,  one  of  which  prohib- 
ited the  use  by  them  of  the  front  door  of 
Boynton  Hall.  Emboldened  by  the  success 
of  their  organizational  meeting  just  held, 
several  freshmen  decided  to  turn  up  the 
cuffs  of  their  trousers  (another  violation) 
and  boldly  go  out  the  front  door.  They  were 


met  by  a  determined  group  of  sophomores 
and  a  vigorous  scuffle  ensued.  (Class  rushes 
had  been  forbidden  by  the  faculty  due  to  a 
serious  accident  the  previous  year.)  As  the 
fray  was  continuing  with  no  sign  of  abate- 
ment a  stalwart,  energetic  figure  appeared 
on  the  scene.  It  was  Professor  Zelotes  W. 
Coombs!  Without  hesitation  he  waded  into 
the  center  of  the  melee,  whacking  heads 
right  and  left  with  his  umbrella  and 
demanding  a  cessation  of  hostilities.  The 
rush  speedily  ceased. 

The  above  incident  occured  on  the  morn- 
ing of  September  29, 191 1,  and  my  diary  of 
sixty-three  years  ago  has  the  following  terse 
entry;  "Chemistry  lecture.  The  juniors 
organized  the  freshman  class  with  Hayes, 
president,  Brown,  vice-president.  I  was 
nominated  for  secretary  but  the  meeting 
was  adjourned  until  Tuesday.  Some  of  us 
turned  our  pants  up.  Rush  on  the  front  steps 
of  Boynton  Hall.  Coombs  dispelled  it  with 
umbrella." 

M.G.Steele '15 
Rome,N.Y. 

. . .  and  the  real  Asnabumskit 
Hill 

Editor:  in  reference  to  Carl  A.  Keyser's 
article  on  "Coombsie"  (wpi  journal, 
December  '74),  Asnabumskit  Hill  is  very 
real,  being  located  in  Paxton  less  than  10 
miles  from  wpi. 

Even  today,  despite  "the  exhaust  of  a  thou- 
sand cars,"  a  WPI  freshman  can  still  capture 
"the  color  of  Fall,  leaves  crunching  under- 
foot, and  the  smell  of  the  woods"  by  hiking 
up  Asnabumskit  (elevation  1,395  feet).  At 
the  summit,  which  is  somewhat  marred  by 
the  Channel  14  TV  station  and  a  telephone 
company  relay  station,  he  can  dally  to  enjoy 
the  views  (toward  Boston  At  Prudential 
Rock  or  to  look  out  over  the  reservoirs  to  the 
west),  picnic,  or  pick  some  of  the  many  blue- 
berries that  proliferate  there  in  the  summer. 

While  I  never  met  Coombsie,  his  only 
failing  seems  to  have  been  not  to  provide  a 
road  map  to  accompany  the  reading  of  the 
Asnabumskit  essay.  With  sufficient  advance 
notice  I  will  gladly  provide  a  guided  tour 
for  any  of  your  interested  readers. 
Ladislav  H.  Berka 
Associate  Professor  of  Chem- 
istry, WPI 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/5 


Nuclear  flak  from  Viet  Nam . . . 

Editor:  As  a  "nuclear  reactor  critic,"  I  read 
with  interest  Dr.  Rasmussen's  "Nuclear 
reactors  —  safe  or  not?" 

His  comparison  of  the  worst-case  nuclear 
accident  with  a  commercial  airline  crash 
into  the  Rose  Bowl  on  New  Year's  Day  is  an 
oversimplification  of  early  aec  reports  that  a 
single  nuclear  accident  could  well  result  in 
45,000  fatalities,  $200  million  in  property 
damage,  and  contamination  of  an  area  the 
size  of  the  state  of  Pennsylvania.  Of  course 
the  people  who  compiled  these  figures  are 
more  than  likely  no  longer  in  the  employ  of 
the  aec. 

As  to  the  chances  of  such  a  catastrophe 
occurring,  let  us  assume  if  in  the  year  2000 
that  1 ,000  nuclear  reactors  will  be  oper- 
ational as  predicted  by  the  aec.  If  the  proba- 
bility of  a  major  accident  were  in  fact  one- 
in-a-million  per  reactor-year,  there  would 
be  one  chance  in  33  that  such  an  accident 
would  occur  during  the  30-year  lifespan  of 
the  reactors.  And  this  with  Dr.  Rasmussen 
admitting,  we  can't  with  our  present  limited 
experience  even  claim  the  one-in-a-million 
chance  of  a  serious  accident. 

But  the  proof  is  in  pudding.  The  Price- 
Anderson  Act  which  was  recently  renewed 
is  the  only  form  of  insurance  available  to  the 
victims  of  these  "one-in-a-million"  acci- 
dents. Liability  per  accident  is  limited  to 
$560  million,  inadequate  according  to  the 
aec's  own  findings.  And  of  this  amount, 
we,  the  taxpayers,  will  assume  80%  of  the 
risk,  with  the  utility  companies  accepting 
the  remaining  20%  ($112  million).  No  insur- 
ance company  or  group  of  insurance  com- 
panies in  the  world  is  prepared  to  accept  the 
consequences  of  a  nuclear  accident.  If  you 
don't  believe  it,  read  the  fine  print  in  your 
homeowner's  insurance  policy. 

I  will  wholeheartedly  agree  with  Dr.  Ras- 
mussen that  sufficient  oil  will  not  be  avail- 
able to  meet  our  increasing  power  needs. 
And  I  will  admit  that  the  burning  of  coal 
docs  not  come  without  its  problems.  But  I 
will  not  conclude,  as  Dr.  Rasmussen  does. 


that  America  should  expend  additional 
efforts  in  the  expansion  of  an  industry 
which  will  certainly  prove  to  be  opposed  to 
the  long-term  interests  of  the  world  and  its 
people. 

Peter  Baker,  '64 
Saigon,  RVN 


...and  New  Zealand 

Editor:  My  October  journal  arrived  last 
week  marked  all  over  by  the  Post  Office 
"please  notify  sender  of  your  correct 
address."  I  scanned  the  Journal  and  sent  the 
Alumni  Office  a  note  asking  them  to  change 
my  addressograph  plate  and  also  included  a 
short  blast  on  your  nuclear  energy  articles 
based  only  on  the  scan.  Since  then,  I  have 
read  the  articles  carefully  and  was  much  dis- 
turbed by  the  deception,  half-truths,  and 
distortion-of-fact  which  they  contain.  The 
fact  that  my  alma  mater  published  these 
data  without  comment  is  of  deep  concern  to 
me.  I  have  prepared  a  commentary  on  these 
articles  which  I  hope  you  see  fit  to  publish. 

As  you  know  little  about  me,  a  brief 
resume:  My  bs  was  in  me/ae,  class  of  '37. 
My  MS  in  me  was  earned  at  the  University  of 
Washington  in  '5 1 ,  and  I  hold  a  Profes- 
sional Aeronautical  Engineers  license,  State 
of  Ohio.  Most  of  my  professional  life  was  in 
ae  although  three  to  four  years  was  in  me 
dealing  largely  with  thermal  power  gener- 
ation. I  was  also  an  instructor  at  the  Univer- 
sity of  Washington,  College  of  Engineering, 
and  taught  in  the  public  school  system  in 
the  State  of  Washington.  I  took  my  retire- 
ment early  in  lieu  of  going  to  California. 
Although  "retired,"  I  am  now  operating  a 
500  +  acre  sheep  and  cattle  farm  pretty 
much  by  myself.  It  was  not  until  I  came  out 
here  some  years  ago  that  I  realized  how  dis- 
torted the  American  sense  of  values  has 
become. 

I  realize  that  the  commentary  which  fol- 
lows is  highly  critical  of  people  and  organi- 
zations in  high  places,  but  to  the  best  of  my 
knowledge  it  is  factual.  It  is  possible  in  your 
society  that  if  enough  concerned  "little 
nobodies"  raise  their  voice  in  protest, 
changes  can  be  brought  about  —  you  at  least 
dumped  Mr.  Nixon!  The  issues  I  raise. 


though,  make  Mr.  Nixon  look  like  a  two-bit 
hit  man  by  comparison. 

The  October  74  journal  ran  three  arti- 
cles on  the  application  of  nuclear  energy  to 
electric  power  generation.  In  his  forward, 
Mr.  Kay  indicated  these  articles  and  two  in 
a  preceding  issue  were  essentially  tran- 
scripts of  guest  lectures  and  (hopefully) 
implied  that  they  did  not  necessarily  repre- 
sent a  wpi  position  on  the  subject.  Because 
they  were  published,  I  feel  they  should  not 
be  left  standing  without  comment.  Not  only 
do  they  paint  a  most  peculiar  picture  of  a 
rather  important  subject,  but  they  also 
reflect  a  malignancy  in  American  society 
which  has  reached  alarming  proportions 
since  World  War  II. 

I  no  longer  have  the  Teller  and  Glazer 
articles  so  cannot  comment  specifically  on 
their  content.  I  am  aware  though  of  Dr. 
Teller's  reputation  of  being  a  relatively 
competent  physicist,  a  proponent  of  nuclear 
power,  a  forceful  mouthpiece  for  the 
"power  elite"  —  but  morally  destitute.  My 
recollections  of  his  article  fit  that  pattern. 
Doctors  Goldman's  and  Rasmussen's  arti- 
cles fit  a  similar  pattern,  but  whether  or  not 
they  are  technically  competent  I  don't 
know. 

One  of  the  things  WPI  used  to  teach 
when  I  was  a  student  there  is  that,  when 
safety  is  involved,  you  design  for  the  worst 
known  condition  and  add  a  safety  factor. 
Based  on  my  professional  experience,  this  is 
sound  teaching  as  it  tends  to  compensate  for 
Murphy's  laws.  (In  case  seome  are  not  yet 
familiar  with  them,  they  state:  ( 1 )  If  it  can 
be  put  together  backwards,  some  knuck- 
lehead  will  find  a  way  to  do  it.  (2)  If  it  can 
fail,  it  will,  and  (3)  If  it  fails,  it  will  do  so  at 
the  worst  possible  point  in  time  and  space.) 
In  his  discussion,  Dr.  Goldman  indicates 
two  limiting  design  criteria  for  nuclear  reac- 
tors and  pooh-pooh's  them  as  being  ridicu- 
lous. This  stance  should  raise  serious 
question  as  to  his  competence  to  design  or 
evaluate  much  of  anything. 

Both  Goldman  and  Rasmussen  are  a  bit 
glib  with  their  statistics.  For  instance,  Dr. 
Goldman's  use  of  200  million  population  as 
a  base  for  his  man-rcm  dosage  by  a  particu- 
lar reactor.  It  makes  the  numbers  come  out 
nice  and  small,  but  is  it  likely  that  the  entire 
U.S.  population  will  be  congregated  in  the 


6       nnl1975     WPI  Journal 


area  of  that  particular  reactor?  Dr.  Rasmus- 
sen  in  his  attempt  to  justify  no  safety  provi- 
sions for  pressure  vessels,  collects  reams  of 
statistics  on  conventional  steam  plants;  and 
as  they  show  a  low  failure  rate,  he  concludes 
the  nuclear  vessel  will  follow  the  same  pat- 
tern. He  does  point  out  that  the  nuclear  ves- 
sel is  operating  up  to  2000  psi  but  doesn't 
mention  that  very  few  steam  plants  (which 
he's  using  as  a  basis  of  comparison)  operate 
over  200-300  psi.  This  marked  difference  in 
operating  environment  renders  his  statis- 
tical base  meaningless. 

It  is  also  interesting  to  note  that  the  max- 
imum man-rem  dosage  quoted  by  Dr.  Gold- 
man as  being  an  "absolute"  value  is  actually 
only  the  present  (and  rather  arbitrary)  limit 
set  by  the  aec.  If  you  look  back  carefully 
into  limits  set  by  the  aec  from  about  1945 
on,  you  will  note  that  as  knowledge 
increases  with  time,  the  limit  decreases.  The 
facts  of  the  matter  are  that  nobody  really 
knows  what  these  limits  are,  and  the  limits 
set  are  but  the  present  "best-guess"  avail- 
able. For  Dr.  Goldman  to  take  these  arbi- 
trary limits  as  absolute,  dilute  them  with 
falsified  statistics  and  then  pooh-pooh  the 
results  borders  on  treason  to  the  human  , 
race.  Remember  the  old  adage,  "Figures 
don't  lie,  but  liars  sure  as  hell  figure!" 

Mr.  Cherry  presented  some  rather  inter- 
esting "weaknesses"  of  the  organizations 
established  to  control  the  application  of 
nuclear  energy  in  the  U.S.  It  would  have 
been  a  fine  article  had  he  stopped  at  that,  but 
he  evidently  felt  duty-bound  to  make  some 
suggestions  for  improvement.  These  sugges- 
tions laid  a  big  fat  egg  and  made  one  wonder 
how  much  faith  he  could  put  in  what  had 
been  said  previously.  Possibly,  Mr.  Cherry 
has  not  yet  come  to  realize  that  decency  can- 
not be  achieved  by  legislation. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  since  the 
"energy  crisis"  surfaced  and  your  govern- 
ment has  budgeted  billions  of  dollars  to 
cope  with  it  —  the  vast  majority  of  that  gov- 
ernment money  is  being  channeled  into 
areas  controlled  by  the  oil  cartels.  The 
Alaska  pipeline  (condemned  by  environ- 
mentalists), oil  from  coal,  nuclear  reactors, 
you  name  it,  are  all  adequately  endowed, 
while  abundant  non-polluting  energy 
sources  which  are  not  controlled  by  the  oil 
cartels  —  such  as  geothermal,  wind,  tide, 


and  solar  —  are  handed  only  a  pittance  to 
make  the  record  "look  good."  Also  consider 
the  fact  that,  although,  given  very  little  pub- 
licity, it  was  to  protect  the  oil  cartel's  inter- 
est in  the  off-shore  oil  that  the  U.S.  became 
embroiled  in  the  Viet  Nam  war. 

My  coming  to  New  Zealand  has  made  me 
realize  how  markedly  disadvantaged  you  in 
the  states  really  are.  I  think  it  can  truthfully 
be  said  that  your  governmental  machinery 
—  based  on  the  Declaration  of  Independ- 
ence, the  Constitution,  and  the  Bill  of 
Rights  —  is  better  than  anything  else  now 
existing  in  the  world.  Your  experience  with 
it  since  wwn  should  graphically  illustrate 
that  no  matter  how  good  the  "system"  may 
be,  it  can  always  be  corrupted  by  greedy 
men.  Although  our  "system"  may  leave 
something  to  be  desired,  and  our  politicians 
and  Government  Servants  may  not  be  gen- 
iuses, they  at  least  are  honest  and  truthful.  It 
does  make  a  difference! 

In  my  opening  paragraph,  I  mentioned  a 
malignancy  which  has  crept  into  American 
society,  particularly  since  wwn.  I  had  refer- 
ence to  the  changes  which  have  occurred  in 
your  capitalistic  system.  Capitalism,  basi- 
cally, is  a  system  for  managing  money,  and 
as  practiced  there  up  to  as  late  as  the  30's, 
had  much  to  commend  it.  Since  wwn 
though,  ybur  capitalism  has  become  almost 
a  religion  with  "money"  its  deity.  Money  is 
a  real  god,  and  very  powerful.  It  is  also  very 
harsh,  cruel,  and  heartless.  Presently  the 
American  oil  cartels  not  only  control  oil,  but 
also  gas,  coal,  nuclear  energy,  etc.  With 
much  of  the  world's  money  now  gravitating 
to  the  oil  cartels  (and  to  the  Syndicate?)  the 
picture  presented  is  not  exactly  rosy.  How 
(or  if)  this  social  cancer  can  be  controlled 
remains  to  be  seen. 

Hopefully,  other  alumni  who  may  be  in  a 
position  to  effect  some  change  will  take 
heart  from  this  message  and  be  moved  to 
actually  do  something  about  it. 

Frank  Rollins 
Richmond,  Nelson,  New 
Zealand 


by  Stephen  Raczynski, 
Sports  Information  Director 

"Poor  Jim  Gorman" 

The  142-pound  weight  class  in  New 
England  college  wrestling  has  tradition- 
ally been  a  tough  league  for  many  years. 
In  fact,  it  has  become  almost  legendary. 

And  that's  why  for  days  before  the 
season  began  last  December,  WPT  wres- 
tling Coach  Phil  Grebinar  could  be 
heard  singing  the  refrain,  "Poor  Jim 
Gorman."  It  seems  that  Jim  Gorman 
wrestles  in  the  142-pound  class.  At  sea- 
son's end,  though,  "Poor  Jim  Gorman" 
had  startled  everyone  except  his  coach 
by  posting  a  hard-earned  13-2-1  record. 

The  wrestling  team's  overall  record 
this  year  was  7-9,  but  you  can't  pin  the 
losing  season  on  the  team's  six  first-year 
students.  Five  of  the  six  top  scorers 
were  in  their  first  year  at  WPI,  led  by 
Springfield's  Mike  Beaudoin  (126 
pounds),  who  was  a  two-time  New  Eng- 
land high  school  champion;  Kevin 
Northridge  ( 1 34  pounds)  of  Florham 
Park,  N.J.;  BUI  Diederich  (158  pounds) 
from  Hartford,  Ct.;  and  Bryce  Granger 
(150  pounds)  of  Kensington,  Md. 

But  it  was  Jim  Gorman  who  led  the 
team  in  wins  ( 1 3),  three-point  decisions 
(7),  four-point  decisions  (2),  and  who 
finished  second  behind  Beaudoin  in 
average  points  scored  per  contest  (3.4). 
It  was  only  Jim  Gorman  who  placed  in 
his  competition  (finishing  fifth)  at  the 
New  Englands  held  at  Massachusetts 
Maritime  Academy  at  Buzzards  Bay  last 
February.  It  was  Jim  Gorman  who  was 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/7 


several  times  named  a  game  captain  by 
his  teammates  prior  to  meets.  And  it 
will  be  Jim  Gorman,  a  sophomore  next 
year,  who  has  been  elected  to  co-captain 
the  team.  A  rare  honor  for  a  first-year 
student  in  any  collegiate  sport. 

Coach  Grebinar  is  not  surprised.  "He 
is  a  fiery  and  outgoing  type,  and  even 
though  he  is  only  a  first-year  student  his 
gutsy  attitude  has  made  him  a  team 
leader.  He  seems  to  have  a  mean  streak 
as  a  wrestler,  and  he  wasn't  pushed 
around  by  the  more  experienced  men  he 
faced  this  past  winter." 

It  is  no  coincidence  that  Jim  came  to 
WPI.  His  ties  with  Coach  Grebinar  go 
way  back.  "I  had  Jim  as  a  sixth-grader," 
recalled  Grebinar,  "when  I  was  practice 
teaching  at  Windsor  (N.Y.)  Central 
School  to  fulfill  my  degree  require- 
ments at  Cortland  State.  I  remember 
Gorman  as  a  fine  athlete  even  then,  one 
of  the  best  in  the  school." 

"We  recruited  him  for  his  ability  as 
both  a  wrestler  and  a  football  player," 
said  Grebinar,  who  is  also  the  defensive 
line  coach  in  the  fall.  "In  fact,  Jim's  foot- 
ball coach  at  Windsor  Central,  Tom 
Cordes,  was  my  roommate  in  college  for 
two  years.  But  Jim  has  a  definite  nose 
for  hitting,  and  that  is  why  he  has  been 
our  'monster  back'  on  defense." 

This  year  was  a  losing  season,  but 
next  year  looks  a  lot  brighter.  And  in  ret- 
rospect, it  was  "Poor  Jim  Gorman"  who 
made  all  of  New  Kngland's  other  leg- 
endary 142-pounders  look  all  the 
poorer. 


Winter  Sports  Notes 

Only  the  swimmers  came  through 
with  a  winning  record  during  the  winter 
months  at  WPI,  finishing  their  season 
with  a  7-6  slate.  The  year  was  capped 
with  record-shattering  performances  by 
several  mermen  in  the  final  exciting 
meet  against  u.R.i.  First-year  student 
Bob  Brown  broke  three  records  while 
his  classmate  Steve  Distance  and  sen- 
iors Rick  Aseltine  and  Leo  Letendre 
broke  one  each.  Three  of  WPI's  wins 
came  at  the  expense  of  Holy  Cross, 
Assumption,  and  Nichols;  thus  the 
Engineers  became  Worcester  County 
champions.  The  season  could  have 
marked  the  finale  for  Coach  Carl  Peter- 
son, whose  teams  have  won  40  of  68 
meets  during  his  seven  years  as  swim 
coach  at  WPI. 

Basketball  Coach  Jim  Herrion  was 
riding  high  with  three  opening  wins  in 
December,  but  fourteen  consecutive 
losses  for  a  final  5- 1 6  record  consid- 
erably dampened  the  season.  Senior  co- 
captain  Jim  Aceto,  who  averaged  11.7 
points  a  game  was  named  the  team's 
most  valuable  player  by  the  Worcester 
Area  Coaches,  Sportswriters,  and 
Sportscasters  Association. 

WPI  sophomore  Brian  Huff  of  Can- 
ada was  awarded  first  place  in  the  over- 
all New  England  collegiate  Skiing 
Competition  held  throughout  January, 
February,  and  early  March  at  various 
snow-capped  peaks  in  Vermont,  New 
Hampshire,  and  Massachusetts. . . .  The 
WPI-Assumption  basketball  series  has 
ended  with  Assumption  winning  22  of 
37  encounters. . .  .  The  Hockey  Club 
ended  the  winter  at  5-6-2  under  Coach 
I. en  Bowen. .  .  .  Merl  Norcross's  varsity 
indoor  track  team  finished  at  2-3;  pole 


vaulter  Gary  Pearson,  high  jumper 
James  Howe,  and  long  jumper  Paul 
Varadian  all  did  well. . . .  WPI's  success- 
ful soccer  team  came  out  of  retirement 
in  the  off-season  to  win  the  First  Annual 
Boston  University  Indoor  Soccer 
Championship.  In  perhaps  an  even 
greater  feat,  the  team  wound  up  fourth 
(of  24  teams)  in  the  Fifth  Annual  Uni- 
versity of  Connecticut  Indoor  Soccer 
Tournament,  the  largest  and  most  pres- 
tigious tourney  of  its  kind  in  the  coun- 
try. John  Maxouris  scored  18  goals  and 
Alan  King,  Jr.,  counted  7  to  lead  the 
team. 

WPI's  Harrington  Auditorium 
was  once  again  the  site  of  all  the  Central 
Massachusetts  High  School  District 
basketball  playoffs,  as  well  as  the  Divi- 
sion II  state  championship  and  the 
women's  state  championship. . . .  WPI's 
national  championship  bowling  team 
(actually  a  club  sport)  is  once  again  in 
first  place  in  the  Tri-State  Conference 
and  have  won  several  tournaments  dur- 
ing their  long  season.  Captain  Ed 
Karedes  and  Jack  Germaine  continue  to 
knock  down  the  tenpins  in  their  quest  to 
retain  their  national  title  at  Dayton, 
Ohio,  in  early  May. 


8      pnl1975     WPIJournal 


r 


WORCESTER  POLYTECHNIC  INSTITUTE 
ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 


r 


The  Air  Travel  Service  of 
Transamenca  Corporation 

Trans  International  Airlines 


Round  trip  jet  transportation 
via  Trans  International  Air- 
lines with  complimentary 
cocktails  and  deluxe  inflight  dinin 

•  All  flight  reservations  and  tickets. 
Pre-registration  at  your  hotel. 

•  Deluxe  hotel  accommodations  at 
the  magnificent  Munich 
Sheraton  for  7  nights. 

•  All  transfers  between  airport 
and  hotel. 


•  Half-day  sightseeing  tour  of  the 
highlights  of  Munich. 

-•  A  Trans  National  Travel  tour 
escort  throughout  your  vacation. 

•  A  Trans  National  Travel  hospitality 
desk  in  your  hotel. 


Limited  space  available  on  a 
first-come,  first-served  basis. 


DEPARTURE  DATE: 
August  8, 1975 


DEPARTURE  CITY: 
Boston 


Mail  checks  and  reservation  to: 
Stephen  J.  Hebert  —  Alumni  Office 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
Worcester,  MA  01609 

I  would  like  to  go  to  MUNICH.  Please  bill  me  for  my  deposit.  ($100.  per  person) 

[    Please  charge  my  deposit  of  $ ($100.  per  person)  to  MASTER  CHARGE 

Acc't#  Valid  Thru Signature 

ENCLOSED  is  my:  □  full  payment  of  $ I  I  deposit  of  $ ($100  per  person) 

I  am  reserving (number  of  seats).  I  understand  that  final  payment  is  due  60  days  before  the  departure. 

MAKE  CHECKS  PAYABLE  TO:    Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 

PLEASE  PRINT  and  if  more  than  one  couple,  attach  a  separate  list  with  complete  information  as  below. 

FULL  NAME TEL#  office home 

STREET 

CITY STATE ZIP 


PRICE 
$399.  +  15%  (59.85) 


$458.85 


□  I  want  "Dine-Around"  option.  Add  $45.00  to  my  final  payment. 

SINGLE  OCCUPANCY  ($70.00  additional)  If  sharing  a  room  with  another  person, 
D  SMOKING     1  1  NON-SMOKING  section  of  the  plane. 
PLEASE  SEND  ME  ADDITIONAL  INFORMATION 

For  additional  information  call:  617/753-1411-Alumni  Office 

617/965-3900-Margie  Minter 


(name  of  roommate) 


A  private  university 
in  a  public  world 


by  Russell  Kay 


You  probably  take  for  granted  the  fact  that  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute  is  a  private  university.  But  what 
does  it  mean  today  to  be  a  private  institution  in  a  state  whose 
public  higher  education  system  is  growing  quickly?  And  what 
does  it  mean  to  have  to  finance  your  own  way  in  a  depressed 
economy,  competing  with  public  institutions  whose  tuition  is 
just  one-tenth  your  own? 

The  relationships  between  WPI  and  the  other  eighty-seven 
private  institutions  in  Massachusetts,  and  the  thirty-two  pub- 
licly supported  schools,  form  a  complex  maze  of  competition 
and  cooperation.  The  nature  of  that  maze  is  the  subject  of  this 
article. 


Who's  who  and  how  much 
in  Massachusetts 

The  preponderance  of  private  institutions  in  Massachusetts  is 
striking.  Nationally,  about  three-fourths  of  all  colleges  and 
universities  arc  private,  but  they  enroll  only  about  one-fourth 
of  the  total  number  of  students.  Massachusetts  is  the  only  state 
in  the  nation  where  more  than  half  of  the  enrolled  students 
attend  private  institutions;  in  fact,  144,000  (or  58  percent)  of 
the  state's  25(),(X)()  undergraduates  arc  in  private  colleges. 
Massachusetts1  privately  supported  colleges  and  universities 
in  1974  awarded  75  percent  of  all  bachelor's  degrees,  85  per- 
cent of  all  master's  degrees,  and  95  percent  of  all  doctorates  in 
the  state.  An  interesting  statistic  is  that  one  out  of  every  ten 


students  in  the  nation  applying  to  college  for  the  first  time  this 
year  applied  to  one  or  more  of  the  private  schools  in 
Massachusetts. 

Public  higher  education  in  the  Bay  State  got  off  to  a  slow 
start  as  compared  to  other  parts  of  the  country.  The  large  num- 
ber of  private  institutions  was  undoubtedly  an  important  fac- 
tor in  that  slow  start.  But  as  population  and  demand  grew,  the 
state's  public  higher  education  system  grew  too.  In  1959-60, 
the  legislature  appropriated  $  18  million,  or  about  4  percent  of 
the  total  budget,  for  all  of  higher  education.  For  1973-74,  the 
figure  proposed  was  $2 1 3  million,  or  9  percent.  Still,  Mas- 
sachusetts has  lagged  far  behind  the  rest  of  the  nation.  In  1973 
it  ranked  34th  in  the  country  in  terms  of  per  student  appropri- 
ation, and  49th  in  per  capita  expenditures  for  higher 
education. 


Enrollment— 

Where  do  the  students  come  from 

and  more  importantly, 

where  do  they  go? 

The  lifeblood,  the  raison  d'etre,  of  WPI  and  all  other  educa- 
tional institutions  is  the  education  of  students.  WPI  and  the 
other  institutions,  whether  public  or  private,  each  need  a  cer- 
tain number  of  students  to  be  able  to  operate  efficiently,  and  in 
some  cases  to  be  able  to  operate  at  all.  But  while  the  total 


10    April  1975     WPI  Journal 


educational  capacity  has  been  expanding,  the  total  available 
pool  of  students  has  been  decreasing. 

The  peak  year  for  having  babies  in  Massachusetts  was  1957, 
when  1 1 5,000  were  born.  Now  in  1975  that  bumper  crop  is 
turning  18  and  thinking  of  college.  So  right  now  things  aren't 
bad.  But  in  1973,  by  contrast,  only  74,000  births  were 
recorded,  which  means  that  for  the  next  twenty  years  or  so  the 
number  of  students  entering  college  from  Massachusetts  will 
decline  at  a  significant  rate. 

Unfortunately,  that's  not  the  only  decline  to  worry  about.  In 
1969  about  53  percent  of  all  high  school  graduates  in  Mas- 
sachusetts went  on  to  college.  At  that  time  many  educators 
were  forecasting  that  this  rate  would  increase  by  1  percent  a 
year  for  the  next  two  decades.  What  has  happened,  though,  is  a 
decline  of  over  1  percent  a  year,  to  the  1973  figure  of  45 
percent. 

For  the  past  few  years,  nationwide  enrollments  have  been 
dropping.  In  the  wake  of  the  1 970  recession  and  the  cutbacks 
in  aerospace  programs,  engineering  enrollments  plunged  to  an 
unrealistically  low  figure,  as  students  apparendy  looke4  at  the 
number  of  engineers  out  of  work  and  decided  that  it  just  wasn't 
the  field  to  enter.  That  trend  had  nicely  reversed  itself  when 
the  oil  crisis  and  the  current  recession  hit  hard,  and  now  every- 
one has  trouble  finding  a  job.  At  the  moment  the  picture  is 
mixed.  Some  institutions  report  a  record  number  of  appli- 
cations for  engineering  study,  while  others  are  down  signifi- 
cantly. At  WPI,  admissions  director  John  Brandon  reports 
that  the  number  of  applications  is  running  8  to  10  percent 
ahead  of  1974. 


Get  a  job 

The  fashionable  thing  in  education  circles  these  days  is  to  be 
"career  centered."  Which  means,  basically,  Can  I  get  a  job  eas- 
ily after  graduation  (or  maybe  even  before)?  In  one  sense  it  is 
the  "relevance"  of  the  late  sixties  and  early  seventies  updated 
to  face  a  badly  depressed  job  market.  Students  who  might  have 
majored  in  such  fields  as  Black  studies  or  philosophy  a  few 
years  ago,  for  example,  now  find  themselves  enrolling  in  pro- 
grams like  accounting. 

One  aspect  of  this  shift  has  been  a  strong  persuasion  by  gov- 


i 


ernmental  agencies  to  direct  much  of  the  available  aid  to 
higher  education  into  these  "goal-oriented"  (another  popular 
term)  programs. 

One  of  the  primary  reasons  for  this  change  in  public  atti- 
tude, the  economy  aside,  is  disillusionment  with  some  of  the 
muzzy  programs  that  proliferated  in  higher  education  in  the 
boom  years  of  the  sixties.  Carl  Gilbert,  president  of  the  Associ- 
ation of  Independent  Colleges  and  Universities  in  Massachu- 
setts (aicum),  puts  it  this  way: 

"Colleges  and  universities  continued  to  behave  as  if  every- 
thing would  turn  out  for  the  best  in  the  best  of  all  possible 
worlds.  Coupled  with  the  this  blithe  attitude  was  a  profound 
conviction  that  the  colleges  and  universities  of  this  country 

WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/11 


were  capable  of  solving  all  of  society's  problems,  or  righting 
all  of  the  country's  wrongs,  and  of  designing  a  bright  and  shiny 
new  world  in  which  there  would  be  no  shortcomings. 
Intellectual  arrogance  of  this  sort  is  perversely  attractive  to 
those  who  crave  simple  solutions  to  complex  questions,  and 
the  country  was  quick  to  accept  this  self-anointed  leadership 
and  to  respond  with  grants,  esteem,  and  more  problems.  Nei- 
ther the  grants  nor  the  esteem,  however,  were  proportionate  to 
the  magnitude  of  the  problems. 

"Higher  education's  role  as  social  messiah  was  brief,  uncon- 
vincing, and  in  some  ways  embarrasing,  largely  because  it 
could  not  deliver  on  many  of  its  promises,  glibly  given  and 
unquestioningly  accepted.  A  disenchanted  public  and  Con- 
gress realigned  priorities  within  education  to  the  detriment  of 
higher  education,  and  then  pushed  all  of  education  to  one  side 
to  allow  other  social  demands— energy,  ecology,  and  the 
elderly,  to  name  a  few— to  come  to  the  head  of  the  line." 

WPI  finds  itself  in  a  curious  position  with  regard  to  this  job 
orientation.  WPI  has  traditionally  been  oriented  toward  prac- 
tical education  (Lehr  und  Kunst,  and  all  that).  The  redirection 
of  emphasis  with  the  WPI  Plan,  putting  stronger  emphasis  on 
interdisciplinary  programs,  on  individual  needs,  and  on  view- 
ing engineering  and  science  in  their  social  contexts,  is  now 
being  recognized  as  producing  graduates  who  are  noticeably 
more  able  to  step  into  jobs  in  business  and  industry.  J.  S.  S. 
Ribeiro,  '58,  of  Jamesbury  Corporation  in  Worcester,  feels 
that  WPI  Plan  graduates  "are  coming  out  just  as  good  engi- 
neers as  our  older  grads,  but  they  are  much  more  aware  of  the 
society  in  which  they  are  doing  engineering." 

A  recruiter  for  a  federal  agency,  himself  a  WPI  graduate, 
wrote:  "I  was  very  impressed  with  the  quality  of  students  this 
year.  My  last  visit  was  three  years  ago  when  the  Plan  was  in  its 
infancy— what  a  difference  now!  The  exposure  to  real  world 
problems  is  putting  your  students  far  ahead  of  those  from 
other  colleges  in  coping  with  real-life  situations.  They  are 
much  more  conversant,  self-assured,  and  accustomed  to  sol- 
ving problems  for  which  the  answers  are  yet  unknown." 

And  in  one  of  the  most  telling  endorsements  from  industry 
of  the  WPI  Plan,  Wcstinghouse  this  year  made  seven  job 
offers  to  1975  graduates.  The  four  Plan  students  were  all 
offered  higher  starting  salaries  than  the  non-Plan  students, 
because  of  their  project  experience. 


iawkw  WC%m  wM  &m  vm  w,  mWw, 


Who  pays  for  college? 
And  how  much? 

The  first  answer  to  that  question  is,  of  course,  the  student— or, 
more  usually,  his  parents.  Tuition  plus  room  and  board  plus 
fees  plus  books  plus  living  expenses  plus  spending  money  plus 
travel . . .  less  any  financial  aid.  It's  a  big  bill  these  days,  and  it's 
certainly  one  reason  for  the  growth  of  low-tuition,  close-to- 
home  public  institutions.  The  1974-75  tuition  at  WPI  was 
$2,900.  (Next  year  it  will  be  $3,150.)  The  1974-75  tuition  at 
the  University  of  Massachusetts  was  $300.  Since  it  does  not 
cost  the  state  appreciably  less  to  educate  students  than  it  costs 
WPI,  the  $2,600  difference  in  tuition  represents  a  direct  sub- 
sidy, a  scholarship  paid  for  by  the  taxpayers  and  given  to  any 
student  who  chooses  UMass,  regardless  of  whether  he  can 
afford  to  pay  the  real  costs  of  his  education. 

But  in  any  case,  tuition  doesn't  cover  the  whole  bill  at  a 
school  like  WPI.  Education  in  science  and  engineering 
requires  heavy  investment  in  equipment,  and  the  project 
aspects  of  the  WPI  Plan  require  that  extensive  technical 
resources  be  available  to  students.  Compare  this  with,  for 
example,  the  study  of  philosophy,  where  you  can  get  by  with  a 
bench,  putting  the  teacher  at  one  end  and  the  student  at  the 
other. 

The  one-third  of  costs  not  covered  by  tuition  must  be  made 
up  from  endowment  and  from  private  and  public  gifts.  These 
sources  have  been  shrinking  noticeably.  Fund-raising  at  some 


12    April  1975     WPI  Journal 


institutions  is  off  30  percent  this  year  compared  to  last.  Foun- 
dation money  is  harder  to  find,  as  portfolios  have  shrunk  in 
value  and  priorities  have  been  changed.  The  Ford  Foundation 
is  one  example.  In  1960  they  distributed  $140  million  (of  a 
$360  million  total)  to  higher  education.  In  1978  they  plan  to 
distribute  about  $  15  million  (of  $100  million  total),  and  most 
of  that  is  committed  to  minority  education. 

Federal  aid  has  been  a  big  factor  in  the  recent  expansion  of 
private  institutional  programs.  But  federal  programs  have  a 
way  of  disappearing  as  Congress  and  the  agencies  involved 
become  interested  in  new  projects,  and  often  an  institution  is 
left  with  commitments  to  students  and  to  a  program  that 
requires  outside  funding;  when  this  funding  is  not  available, 
the  commitments  then  cut  into  the  institution's  general 
unrestricted  resources,  helping  to  build  deficits,  create  budg- 
eting nightmares,  and  ultimately  limit  the  options  available  to 
students. 

Federal  student  aid  programs  are  limited  at  present  and 
likely  to  remain  so.  A  report  of  a  task  force  of  the  National 
Council  of  Independent  Colleges  and  Universities,  A^National 
Policy  for  Private  Higher  Education,  concludes  that  "federal 
programs  of  student  aid  are  not  well  suited  to  the  needs  of  pri- 
vate institutions  and  their  students.  The  programs  do  not  pro- 
vide realistic  amounts  of  money  to  help  students  meet  the  costs 
of  attending  private  colleges  and  universities.  The  conditions 
are  often  too  restrictive  or  the  programs  are  underfunded." 

State  aid  to  narrow  the  tuition  gap  is  a  touchy  subject.  Mas- 
sachusets  does  have  a  state  scholarship  program.  It  currently 
provides  about  $10.5  million  a  year— three  times  what  it  was  a 
couple  of  years  ago,  and  less  than  one-third  of  what  many  con- 
sider the  actual  need.  What  increases  there  have  been  have 
resulted  only  from  legislative  activity;  Massachusetts'  gover- 
nors have  not  yet  seen  fit  to  take  action  in  this  area.  Until  last 
November,  there  was  a  constitutional  ban  against  providing 
state  aid  directly  to  private  colleges  and  universities.  (Indirect 
approaches,  such  as  contracting  with  individual  institutions  to 
provide  needed  educational  programs  that  the  state  could  not 
supply  itself,  such  as  physical  therapy  training,  have  been  very 
small  in  scope.)  That  ban  was  lifted  by  constitutional  amend- 
ment in  the  last  election,  but  whether  anything  more  will  be 
done  to  aid  Bay  State  students  remains  to  be  seen. 


Cooperation  as  well  as  competition— 
the  Public /Private  Forum 

With  all  the  differing  goals  and  differing  resources  of  the  pub- 
lic and  private  institutions  which  are  competing  for  the  same 
students,  there  has  been  a  very  significant  and  heartening 
degree  of  cooperation  between  the  two  in  Massachusetts  in 
recent  years.  On  the  broadest  scale  there  is  the  Public /Private 
Forum,  a  regular  series  of  meetings  since  1973  in  which  educa- 
tional leaders  from  both  sectors  have  come  together  to  discuss 
problems  of  common  concern  and  to  develop  courses  of  action 
for  defining  and  sometimes  solving  these  problems.  Frank  A. 
Tredinnick,  Jr.,  executive  vice  president  of  aicum,  calls  the 
Public/Private  Forum  "a  serious  effort  to  begin  to  view  all  of 
higher  education  in  Massachusetts  as  a  single  entity  for  pur- 
poses of  planning,  rather  than  as  two  different,  unrelated 
groups  of  institutions." 

The  Forum  first  went  to  work  on  developing  a  proposal  for 
an  improved  program  of  state  scholarship  aid,  reaching  a  com- 
promise where  both  public  and  private  institutions  agree  that 
70  percent  of  increased  scholarship  funds  would  go  to  students 
in  private  colleges  and  universities.  The  future  of  this  pro- 
gram, of  course,  is  in  the  hands  of  the  state  legislature.  In 
another  early  action,  the  Forum  took  the  legislature  by  sur- 
prise when  it  spoke  out  against  the  traditional  practice  of  mak- 
ing legislative  decisions  regarding  capital  outlay  for  public 
higher  education  on  the  basis  of  noneducational  considerations 
(e.g.,  the  construction  lobby  needs  so  many  millions  of  dollars 
of  projects  from  the  state). 

In  addition  to  these,  the  Forum  has  also  produced  agree- 
ment on  the  need  for  a  statewide  "open  planning"  process 
aimed  at  avoiding  needless  duplication  of  programs  and  facil- 
ities. It  is  working  toward  providing  more  comprehensive  and 
more  accurate  data  to  the  Board  of  Higher  Education  to  facil- 
itate planning  on  all  levels  by  all  institutions.  And  it  is  renew- 
ing efforts  to  expand  consortia  and  other  resource-sharing 
arrangements. 


WP I  Journal  I  April  1975/13 


The  Worcester  Consortium 

One  of  the  major  demonstrations  of  public  and  private 
institutions  working  together  and  sharing  resources  is  right 
here  in  town,  the  Worcester  Consortium  for  Higher  Educa- 
tion. Established  in  1967,  the  Consortium  has  pioneered  in  a 
number  of  areas.  Students  from  any  member  institution  can 
take  classes  at  other  member  institutions  with  no  extra  fees. 
Thus  a  WPI  student  can  take  a  film  course  at  Worcester  State 
College,  a  psychology  course  at  Clark  University,  language 
courses  at  Holy  Cross  College,  and  so  forth.  And  students 
from  Quinsigamond  Community  College  and  Worcester 
State,  both  public  institutions  with  much  lower  tuition  than 
the  private  colleges,  can  take  courses  at  WPI  and  Clark  and 
Holy  Cross  and  Assumption.  This  cross-registration  program 
is  handled  with  no  extra  charges  to  either  students  or 
institutions.  Another  area  of  educational  cooperation  is  in  the 
formation  of  joint  programs.  One  is  a  "health  care  option,"  in 
which  students  can  select  from  about  fifty  courses  at  various 
member  institutions;  taken  together  these  form  a  cohesive 
introduction  to  health  care  and  its  career  options  from  a  num- 
ber of  different  viewpoints. 

In  another  area,  the  graduate  department  of  management  at 
Clark  University  was  contracted  by  Worcester  State  to  estab- 
lish an  undergraduate  program  in  administrative  studies, 
including  business,  public,  and  health-care  administration. 
Now  in  its  second  year  of  operation,  the  administrative  studies 
program  is  the  second  largest  major  at  Worcester  State,  with 
600  students  enrolled. 

Finally,  there  is  the  Consortium  Scholarship  Program,  an 
imaginative  approach  to  providing  state  aid  to  students  at  pri- 
vate colleges.  Students  who  are  Massachusetts  residents 
enrolled  at  a  Consortium  private  institution  in  a  major  or  pro- 
gram which  is  not  available  at  Quinsigamond  or  Worcester 
State,  and  who  can  demonstrate  financial  need,  are  eligible  for 
publicly  funded  scholarships  of  $750.  In  its  first  three  years  of 
operation,  ending  this  spring,  the  program  will  have  provided 
nearly  $450,000  to  the  eight  private  Consortium  members. 

Somewhat  outside  the  Consortium  proper,  WPI  has  just 
adopted  a  new  joint  degree  program,  the  PhD  in  biomedical 
sciences,  in  conjunction  with  ( ",lark  and  the  Worcester  Founda- 
tion for  Experimental  Biology.  Due  to  begin  in  September,  the 
program  will  use  laboratory  space  at  the  I  'nivcrsitv  of  Mas- 
sachusetts Medical  School  for  itsfirsi  year  and  a  half  while 
WITs  Salisbury  Laboratories  is  being  remodeled. 


JfflBff? 


■*.*', tf«itt .if ff»  /ftt^wi    4&h*l!    J?ilt/     fciw '\t*^:    ''tuff. 


miiMmml 


Where's  it  all  going  to  end . . .  ? 

The  interaction  between  public  and  private  higher  education, 
both  statewide  and  locally,  is  inevitably  going  to  increase. 
Both  types  of  institutions  are  necessary  to  provide  a  healthy 
diversity  and  a  realistically  wide  range  of  educational  options 
for  students.  Private  colleges  and  universities  are  not  educa- 
tional luxuries,  as  some  people  would  have  it.  Neither  are  they 
intrinsically  superior  to  public  institutions,  as  others  would 
maintain.  The  two  sectors  depend  on  each  other;  they  support 
and  complement  each  other's  strengths.  They  serve  as  exam- 
ples to  each  other  of  alternative  ways  of  doing  things,  offering 
different  philosophies,  environments,  and  often  serving  differ- 
ent types  of  students. 

So  the  next  time  you  hear  something  on  the  evening  news 
broadcast  about  public  higher  education,  don't  think  that  it 
won't  affect  private  colleges— or  that  it  won't  affect  WPI.  The 
destinies  of  the  two  are  interlocked. 

This  article  was  developed  primarily  from  a  statewide  series  of 
seminars  for  college  and  university  trustees  given  by  the  Associ- 
ation of  Independent  Colleges  and  Universities  in  Massachusetts 
in  ( October  1 974.  The  wpi  journal  is  indebted  to  the  aicum 
staff,  particularly  Robert  M.  Hyde,  vice  president  for  public 
affairs,  for  help  in  preparing  this  report. 


14    April  1975     WPI  Journal 


The  data  on  which  these  class  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the  Alumni 
Association  before  March  3,  when  it  was 
compiled  for  publication.  Information 
received  after  that  date  will  be  used  in  suc- 
ceeding issues  of  the  wpi  journal. 


1908 


Donald  D.  Simonds,  class  secretary,  reports 
the  death  of  his  son,  Dr.  Sheborne  B.  Sim- 
onds, on  March  8, 1 975  at  Monterey  Park, 
Calif. 


1910 


As  usual,  a  hurrah  for  1 91 0  and  the  new  year 
from  Oliver  Jacobs,  who  writes  that  he  hopes 
to  "greet  some  1910  boys  in  June."  . .  .Also 
looking  towards  June  is  Carlyle  Atherton, 
who  hopes  to  attend  the  reunion  although  he 
cannotwithoutthe  help  of  a  walker —  Mil- 
lard Clement  and  his  wife,  Marietta,  feel  that 
getting  to  wpi  for  the  reunion  might  be  quite  a 
job.  Millard  says  that  things  are  getting  to  the 
point  where  he  even  "forgets  what  I  forgot 
and  when  I  forgot  it."  . . .  Ralph  Gold  and  his 
wife,  Helen,  have  refurnished  their  dining 
room  to  make  a  hospital  room  at  their  home 
in  Middletown,  R.I.  Both  recently  suffered 
strokes  and  have  a  fine  staff  of  three  nurses 
who  look  after  them  24  hours  a  day.  Receiv- 
ing friends  and  letters  have  helped  to  make 
their  confinement  pleasanter. 

Alvan  Grout  has  moved  back  to  his  former 
residence  in  Largo,  Florida  and  wants  to 

make  the  65th Edward  and  Tex  Hanff  are 

doing  quite  well.  Ed,  who  recently  celebrated 
his  85th  birthday  is  now  the  class  "baby" 
since  Fred  Hewes,  the  class  president, 
passed  away  last  year . . .  Leonard  Howell 
now  lives  with  his  daughter  at  Foxwood  Dr., 

Eastham,  Mass Class  Secretary  Charles 

E.  Barney  says  of  George  Martin's  recent 
move  to  Ashburnham,  Mass.,  "Wouldn't  it  be 
cheaper,  Hap,  to  pay  up  the  back  rent?"  Hap, 
who  is  recovering  from  a  recent  operation, 
has  his  wife,  Anna  Mae,  three  children, 
eleven  grandchildren,  and  seven  great 
grandchildren  all  pulling  for  him.  He  enjoys 
letters (1 52  SherbertRd.,  Asburnham.MA 
01430).... 


Irving  Peters  broke  his  right  hip  in  Novem- 
ber and  is  now  having  therapy,  according  to 
his  wife,  Clara.  Last  July  he  suffered  a  stroke 
and  now  his  right  arm  and  hand  are  quite  use- 
less. He  is  trying  very  hard  to  get  well  again. . 
. .  Paul  and  Marion  Twiss  went  through  a 
trying  year,  but  now  are  doing  better.  Marion 
had  cataract  operations  on  both  eyes.  After  a 
year  of  blindness  she  is  now  thankful  that  she 
can  see.  While  she  was  ill  Paul  had  to  do  the 
house  work  and  yard  work.  He  reports  that 
the  yard  work  got  out  of  hand  because  things 

grow  so  fast  in  Florida Class  Secretary 

Charles  Barney  and  Mildred  write  that  they 
are  hibernating  at  53  Bardwell  Street  for  the 
winter.  They  celebrated  their  seventh  happy 
year  together  on  November  1 8th.  Both  of  the 
Barneys  are  well  "except  for  seeing,  hear- 
ing, and  remembering."  Charles  had  a  medi- 
cal checkup  in  January  and  received  A  +  in 
everything.  He  reports  that  Mrs.  Kubic,  who 
came  to  53  Bardwell  St.  for  a  two-week  stint 
in  1963  is  still  with  them  as  housekeeper, 
chauffeur,  nurse,  friend,  and  boss.  He 
doesn'tthinkthat  he  and  Mildred  will  be  able 
to  attend  the  reunion. 


1927 


Cecil  R.  Furminger  has  been  named  the 
state  director  of  the  American  Association  of 
Retired  Persons  in  Wisconsin.  Previously  he 
was  active  in  state  and  national  affairs  of  the 

AARP. 


1931 


Albert  I.  Palm  retired  last  August  after  1 4 
years  as  a  sales  engineer  for  A.  P.  deSanno 
and  Son,  Inc.,  (abrasive  manufacturer)  in 
Phoenixville,  Pa.  Also  a  specialist  in  steel  mill 
applications,  he  had  previously  served  in  the 
same  capacity  at  Norton  Company,  Worces- 
ter, from  1 944  until  1 960.  Earlier  he  was  asso- 
ciated with  Stidsen  and  Palm  Company,  U.S. 
Steel  Corp.,  and  Worcester  Gas  Light  Co.  Mr. 
Palm,  who  now  resides  in  La  Puente,  Calif., 
writes:  "perfect  weather.  Living  on  a  hilltop 
overlooking  the  San  Gabriel  Valley. 
Paradise!" 


1932 


Dana  B.  Carleton,  former  general  superin- 
tendent of  U.S.  Steel  Corp.,  New  Haven, 
Conn.,  has  retired. . . .  William  H.  Hinchcliffe 

has  retired  from  Jones  &  Lamson  Machine 
Co.,  New  York  City,  where  he  had  been  dis- 
trict manager. . . .  Olof  W.  Nyquist  retired  in 
February  after  42  years  of  service  with  Gen- 
eral Electric  Co.,  Conneaut,  Ohio.  The 
Nyquists  now  reside  in  Orleans  on  Cape  Cod. 


. . .  Eugene  W.  Somerville,  who  served  as  a 
vice  president  at  United  Illuminating  Co., 
New  Haven,  Conn.,  for  many  years,  retired 

last  July Also  retired  is  Edwin  C.  Tucker, 

who  was  a  research  engineer  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester. 


1933 


Vincent  F.  Buell  retired  last  November.  He 
had  been  chief  structural  engineer  at 
Stubbs,  Overbeck  &  Associates,  Houston, 
Texas. 


1935 


C.  Marshall  Dann,  commissioner  of  the 
newly  renamed  Patent  and  Trademark 
Office,  was  highlighted  in  the  January  issue 
of  Chemical  Week.  After  a  year  on  the  job, 
one  employee  says  of  him,  "He's  the  ninth 
commissioner  I've  worked  with,  and  when  it 
comes  to  management,  he's  the  best."  Dann 
was  with  DuPont  from  1 935  until  1 974. 


1936 


Leonard  W.  Johnson,  former  vice  president, 
board  member,  and  manager  of  the  com- 
mercial division  of  the  Bailey  Co.,  Inc.,  Ames- 
bury,  Mass.  retired  recently. 


1937 


Harris  W.  Howland,  an  application  engineer 
at  General  Electric  Co.,  Detroit,  Mich., 
retired  on  January  31 , 1 975.  Currently  he  is 
located  in  St.  Petersburg,  Florida. 


1938 


Prof.  Donald  W.  Howe  of  the  wpi  physics 
department  has  been  elected  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  Region  I  of  the  University  Profes- 
sors for  Academic  Order Robert  L.  Som- 
erville is  president  of  the  newly-formed 
company,  Landskrona  International, 
Incorporated,  in  Neshanic,  N.J.  The  firm  will 
market  the  Landskrona  travelling  belt  filter 
—wet  process  phosphoric  acid  filtration 
equipment  for  the  chemical,  fertilizer,  min- 
ing, paper,  and  pulp  industries. 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/15 


1939 


John  M.  Driscoll  has  been  elected  a  director 
of  Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.,  Bos- 
ton. Associated  with  the  firm  since  1 970, 
Driscoll  is  a  senior  vice  president  and  man- 
ager of  the  process  industries  group.  He  is  a 
member  of  aice  and  asme.  In  1972  he 
received  the  asme  "man  of  the  year"  award. 
William  J.  Sexton,  Jr.  is  with  A.  J.  Kelley 
Transportation,  Torrington,  Connecticut. 


1941 


F.  Douglas  McKeown  is  a  technical  science 
advisor  to  the  Massachusetts  Law  Enforce- 
ment Division,  Mass.  Committee  of  Criminal 
Justice.  Boston. 


1942 


Raymond  H.  Matthews  is  manager  of  engi- 
neering and  quality  control  at  Tempstat 
Corp.,  Hinsdale,  N.H. 


1943 

Robert  W.  Alexander  serves  as  production 
manager  at  Beckwith  Laminar  Corp.,  North 
Reading,  Mass. 


1944 

Roy  E.  Baharian  has  been  appointed  a  group 
vice  president  of  Diamond  International  Cor- 
poration and  will  be  in  charge  of  the  firm's 
engineering,  procurement,  and  traffic  oper- 
ations. Baharian,  who  will  be  headquartered 
in  New  York  City,  joined  Diamond  in  1956  as 
a  project  engineer.  Later  he  was  assistant 
director  of  manufacturing  for  the  Diamond 
Match  Division;  manager-engineering  serv- 
ices for  the  Match  and  Woodenware  Divi- 
sion; and  chief  engineer  for  research  and 
engineering  of  the  company.  In  1 972  he  was 
elected  a  corporate  vice  president  of  Dia- 
mond International  in  charge  of  engineering 
and  procurement. 

Prof  Joseph  S.  Marcus,  associate  dean  of 
engineering  and  professor  of  civil  engineer- 
ing at  the  University  of  Massachusetts,  was  a 
recent  guest  speaker  at  a  B'nai  B'rith  break- 
fast meeting  held  at  the  Jewish  Community 
Center  in  Worcester  Last  year  he  spent  his 
sabbatical  leave  at  Technion,  Haifa,  Israel. 

Presently  Richard  K.  Merrell  works  at 
Dahlgren  Construction.  Inc  ,  Yarmouth,  Me. . 

Howard  E.  Swenson  has  started  a  new 
business.  Polytech  Industries,  in  Attleboro, 
Mass 


1945 


Edwin  G.  Baldwin  is  now  director  of  Patent 
Licensing  International  at  Western  Electric 
Co  in  New  York  City        William  P.  Den- 


smore,  vice  president  and  general  manager 
of  the  grinding  wheel  division  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  served  as  a  discussion  leader 
during  a  seminar  held  recently  in  Clinton, 
Mass.  The  seminar  was  titled:  "Getting  the 
most  from  your  schools  through  school-com- 
munity collaboration."  Mr.  Densmore  is  a 
member  of  the  state  Board  of  Education  and 
a  director  of  the  Central  Massachusetts  Citi- 
zens Involved  in  Education. . . .  Harold  Fleit 
now  holds  the  post  of  vice  president  of  sales 
and  marketing  at  R.  P.  Industries,  Inc.,  Marl- 
boro, Mass. 


1946 


Cecil  A.  McCurry  works  as  a  paper  machine 
supervisor  at  Crown  Zellerbach  Corp.,  St. 

Francisville,  La Jack  Wexler  currently 

holds  the  post  of  senior  vice  president  of 
Exxon  International,  New  York  City. 


1947 


Carrol  E.  Burtner  serves  as  deputy  director 
of  the  accident  and  fire  prevention  division  at 
the  U.S.  General  Services  Administration  in 
Washington,  D.C. 


1948 


Kenneth  G.  Cooke  has  been  appointed 
assistant  superintendent  of  the  Kodak  Park 
paper  finishing  division  at  Eastman  Kodak 
Co.,  Rochester,  NY.  He  joined  the  com- 
pany's paper  service  division  as  a  devel- 
opment engineer  in  1 948.  He  belongs  to  the 
Society  of  Photographic  Scientists  and 
Engineers. 


1949 


Albert  A.  Dulac  was  recently  promoted  to 
director  of  product  groups  and  services, 
U.S.A.,  for  Motorola's  Semiconductor  Prod- 
ucts Division  which  is  headquartered  in 
Scottsdale,  Arizona.  He  joined  the  firm  in 
1 963  and  prior  to  his  most  recent  promotion 
served  as  staff  director  of  manufacturing. . . . 
Stanley  R.  Hine  is  a  controls  engineer  at 
Riley  Stoker  in  Worcester.  He  writes  that  he 
has  five  children  and  three  grandchildren, 
his  youngest  son,  Nathan,  being  a  freshman 
at  Dartmouth.  . . .  John  D.  Saunierworksasa 
manager  at  Snelling  &  Snelling  Personnel  in 
Somerville,  N.J. 


1950 


Russ  Khoyhian  is  president  of  Design  & 
Process  Engineering,  Inc.,  Burlington,  Mass 
Last  November  his  company's  new  flexible 
vertical  stacking  freezer,  which  offers  high 


volume  in  minimum  space,  was  the  subject  of 
a  feature  article  in  Quick  Frozen  Foods 
magazine. . . .  Frank  J.  Sherman,  III,  who  is 
chief  system  planning  engineer  at  Boston 
Edison  Co.,  is  presently  on  a  two-year  assign- 
ment as  a  project  manager  at  the  Electric 
Power  Research  Institute  and  is  located  in 
Palo  Alto,  Calif Robert  F.  Stewart,  presi- 
dent of  the  consumer  group  at  Rockwell 
International  Corp.,  has  been  named  to  the 
additional  position  of  president  of  the  com- 
pany's Admiral  group. 


1951 


Marshall  E.  Brown  works  for  Englehard 
Industries,  Plainville,  Mass. 


1952 


Richard  G.  Bennett  is  with  Dean  Witter  & 
Co.,  Boca  Raton,  Fla George  Jeas  was 

recently  named  assistant  to  the  executive 
vice  president  at  Boston  Edison  Company. 
Previously  he  was  head  of  Edison's  Com- 
puter Division,  system  operations  and  plan- 
ning department.  He  has  been  with  the  firm 
since  1952. 


1953 


Dr.  Michael  N.  Hoechstetter  now  works  for 
the  Ashland  Chemical  Co.  in  Columbus, 
Ohio.  Earlier  he  had  been  with  the  Chemical 
Abstracts  Service  for  fifteen  years. . . .  Robert 
C.  Jacino  holds  the  position  of  director  of 
international  manufacturing  at  Abbott  Labo- 
ratories, North  Chicago,  Illinois. 


1954 


Robert  A.  Luoma  is  a  senior  systems  engi- 
neer at  General  Electric  Co.,  fast  breeder 
reactor  department,  Sunnyvale,  Calif —  Mil- 
ton Meckler  writes  that  his  firm,  Meckler 
Associates  of  Los  Angeles,  is  now  a  member 
of  the  energy  systems  and  services  group  of 
Envirodyne,  Inc.  He  continues  as  president 
of  his  company  and  has  also  been  appointed 
president  of  Envirodyne  Energy  Services 
(EES).  This  group  emphasizes  total  environ- 
mental planning,  testing  engineering  and 
project  management.  His  companies  are  fac- 
ing the  energy  crisis  by  utilizing  their  ability 
to  design,  install  and  manage  on-site  power 
generation  plants  with  heat  recovery.  Trans 
World  Airlines  and  the  Queen  Mary  are 
among  those  who  have  looked  to  ees  for  total 

energy  concepts William  Schoenemann 

continues  as  director  of  manufacturing  oper- 
ations at  Microform  Data  Systems,  Menlo 


16    April  197b     WPI  Journal 


Hewlett-Packard  introduces 
a  smaller  uncompromising 

calculator:  the  HP-21  Scientific, 

$125.00: 


Now  $125.00  buys: 

More  power  than  our  HP-35.  The 

HP-21  performs  all  log  and  trig  func- 
tions, the  latter  in  radians  or  degrees. 
It's  our  only  calculator  short  of  the 
HP-45  that  lets  you : 

•  convert  polar  to  rectangular  coor- 
dinates, and  back  again  (-^P, 

->R); 

•  do  register  arithmetic  (M  +  ,M— , 
MX,Mt); 

•  calculate  a  common  antilog  ( 1 0  X ) 
with  a  single  keystroke. 

The  HP-21  also  performs  all  basic 
data  manipulations  and  executes  all 
pre-programmed  functions  in  a  sec- 
ond or  less. 

Smaller  size.  6  ounces  vs.  9  for  our 
HP-35. 

Full  display  formatting.The  display 
key  (DSP)  lets  you  choose  between 
fixed  decimal  and  scientific  notation 


and  lets  you  control  the  number  of 
places  displayed.  (The  HP-21  always 
uses  all  10  digits  internally.) 

If  a  number's  too  large  or  small  for 
fixed  decimal  display,  the  HP-21 
switches  automatically  to  scientific. 
If  you  give  it  an  impossible  instruc- 
tion, its  Display  spells  E-r-f-o-r. 

RPN  logic  system. Here's  what  this 
unique  logic  system  means  for  you: 

•  You  can  evaluate  any  expression 
without  copying  parentheses,  wor- 
rying about  hierarchies  or  re-struc- 
turing beforehand. 

•  You  can  solve  all  problems  your 
way — the  way  you  now  use  when 
you  use  a  slide  rule. 

•  You  see  all  intermediate  answers 
immediately. 

•  You  can  easily  backtrack  when 
you  err. 

•  You  can  re-use  numbers  without 


re-entering  them.  The  HP-21  be- 
comes your  scratch  pad. 

HP  quality  craftsmanship.  One 

reason  Nobel  Prize  winners,  astro- 
nauts, conquerors  of  Everest,  Ameri- 
ca's Cup  navigators  and  over  500,000 
other  professionals  own  H-P  calcu- 
lators. 

Your  bookstore  will  give  you  a 
demonstration.  They'll  show  you 
how  much  performance  $125.00* 
can  buy.  If  they  don't  have  the 
HP-21  yet,  call  800-538-7922  (in 
Calif.  800-662-9862)  for  the  name 
of  a  dealer  who  does. 

HEWLETT  JlDj  PACKARD 


j^ 


Sales  and  service  from  I  "2  offices  in  65  countries. 
Dept.  239,  19310  Pruncridge  Avenue,  Cupertino,  CA  95014 

615/13 

♦Suggested  retail  price  excluding  applicable  state  and 
local  i  ntal   U.S.A.,  Alaska  ix  Hawaii. 


Park,  Calif.  He  established  the  manufac- 
turing and  field  service  capability  forthe 
product  line  consisting  of  manual  and  com- 
puter controlled  high  density  microfilm  read- 
ers. . . .  Wilfred  F.  Taylor  is  self  employed 
with  Crowd  and  Taylor,  Yarmouth  Port, 
Mass. 


1959 


1962 


1955 


John  F.  Conlon,  Jr.,  has  been  employed  by 
the  Environmental  Protection  Agency, 

Region  I,  in  Needham  Heights,  Mass 

Henry  L.  Manseau  works  at  Incoterm  Corp. 
Natick,  Mass. 


1956 


David  C.  Provost,  Jr.,  is  a  loss  prevention 
engineer  at  Schirmer  Engineering,  Niles,  I 


1957 


Raymond  E.  Archambault  is  now  with  Digital 
EquipmentCorp.,  Maynard,  Mass. . .   James 
H.  Brigham,  sim,  was  recently  appointed 
manager  of  marketing  services  at  Bay  State 
Abrasives  Division,  Dresser  Industries,  Inc., 
Westboro,  Mass.  He  will  be  responsible  for 
market  planning,  distributor  sales  pro- 
motion, sales  training,  marketing  commu- 
nications and  customer  service  department 
activities. . .    Stuart  R.  Hamilton  holds  the 
position  of  president  at  H.  P.  Alarms,  Inc.,  in 
Framingham,  Mass. .     Constantine  Rhodes 
has  joined  Sylvania  in  Needham,  Mass. 


1958 


Dr.  David  S.  Crimmins  has  opened  an  office 
for  the  practice  of  dentistry  in  Palmer,  Mass. 
He  holds  a  master's  degree  in  chemistry  from 
the  University  of  Wisconsin;  a  SCD  in  metal- 
lurgy from  m.i.t.;  and  a  dmd  from  the  Univer- 
sity of  Pennsylvania  School  of  Dental 
Medicine        Roger  A.  Litman  works  for 
North  Shore  Fuel,  Revere,  Mass. . . .  Joaquim 
S.  S.  Ribeiro  was  recently  elected  a  director 
of  the  Mechanics  National  Bank,  Worcester. 
He  is  vice  president  and  treasurer  of  James- 
bury  Corp.  and  a  trustee  of  the  Memorial  Hos- 
pital and  of  the  Central  New  England 
Colleges        Walter  Veith  has  been  elected 
president  of  the  Sterling  Precision  Export 
Corporation,  West  Palm  Beach,  Fla.  He  has 
had  extensive  executive  experience  in  the 
international  marketing  field  and  is  fluent  in 
five  languages 


David  G.  Holloway  serves  as  chief  engineer 
at  Parker  &  Harper  Mfg.  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester. 
. . .  Chester  F.  Jacobson  is  a  program  engi- 
neer at  Gillette  Co.,  Boston. . . .  Marshall  P. 
Krupnick  has  become  a  member  of  the  law 
firm  of  Grand  and  Krupnick  in  Hallandale, 
Florida. . . .  Eric  G.  Rorstrom  is  with  North- 
east Utilities  in  Berlin,  Conn. 


1960 

John  W.  Biddle  has  been  named  manager  of 
employee  relations  at  Norton  Co.  in  Worces- 
ter. He  will  be  responsible  for  the  formulation 
and  direction  of  policies  and  programs 
designed  to  maintain  effective  employee 
relations.  Biddle  joined  the  firm  in  1963  as  an 
industrial  engineer.  He  was  made  supervisor 
of  industrial  engineering,  engineering  and 
construction  services  in  1 969  and  in  1 970 
was  named  superintendent  of  planning  and 
control  for  the  company's  engineering  and 

construction  services Paul  M.  Bryon  now 

works  at  General  Electric  in  Schenectady, 
N.Y .. . .  Earl  G.  Erickson,  sim,  a  former  equip- 
ment engineer  at  Warner  &  Swasey  Co.,  Wor- 
cester has  retired. . . .  Richard  L.  Gess 
recently  received  his  master's  degree  in 
engineering  science  from  Pennsylvania 

State  University,  University  Park,  Pa Fred 

W.  Kloiber  is  on  the  professional  and  techni- 
cal staff  at  Princeton  University  in  Princeton, 
N.J Peter  A.  Lajoie  was  named  appli- 
cations engineer  at  Data  Technology,  Inc., 
Watertown,  Mass.  He  is  responsible  for  all 
the  firm's  applications  and  sales  effort  for 
their  encoder  products  line.  Previously  he 
was  the  engineering  manager  of  Trump- 
Ross  Industrial  Controls,  Inc.,  Billerica. 
.  .  .  Currently  Sang  K.  Lee  is  a  senior  patent 
attorney  for  Motorola,  Phoenix,  Arizona. 

.  Edward  J.  Sappet  serves  as  a  general 
foreman  at  gte  Sylvania  in  Needham,  Mass. 


1961 


Edward  R.  Desplaines  is  employed  at  United 
Engineers  &  Constructors,  Boston. . . .  Mar- 
tin G.  Gordon  holds  the  post  of  manager  of 
the  micro-processor  division  at  Transitron 
Electronic  Corp.,  Wakefield,  Mass. . . .  Lee  P. 
Hackett  is  now  assistant  vice  president  of 
the  American  Appraisal  Co.,  Inc.,  Milwaukee, 
Wise        William  A.  Maertens  received  one 
of  the  four  distinguished  honor  awards  given 
by  the  Texas  A  &  M  University  College  of  Edu- 
cation at  recent  commencement  exercises. 
He  was  awarded  a  degree  in  industrial  edu- 
cation and  plans  to  enter  the  field  of  electron- 
ics. .     Thomas  M.  Pantages  teaches 
science  at  Gloucester  (Mass.)  High  School. 
Thomas  L.  Maloney  is  a  stockbroker  at 
Kennedy-Peterson.  Inc  ,  East  Hartford, 
Conn 


Richard  O.  Allen,  formerly  a  mathematics 
and  science  instructor  at  Blair  Academy, 
Blairstown,  N.J.,  has  now  returned  to 
industry  and  is  the  quality  control  manager 
forChesebrough  Ponds,  Inc.,  at  the 

Instrument  Division  in  Watertown,  N.Y 

Anthony  R.  Biancaniello  has  been  employed 

by  Arthur  D.  Little,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass 

Presently  Charles  V.  Burdick,  Jr.  is  a  senior 
supervisior  of  process  development  at  E.  I. 
duPont  in  Bellaire,  Texas. . . .  Currently  Rob- 
ert R.  Cassanelli  holds  the  post  of  group 
leader  for  General  Foods  Corp.  in  Dover, 
Delaware George  H.  Forsberg  is  a  proc- 
ess assistance  superintendent  for  Monsanto 
in  London,  England. 

The  Rev.  Paul  W.  Goranson,  acting  vicar 
of  Grace  Episcopal  Church,  Webster,  Mass., 
was  ordained  an  Episcopal  priest  on  January 

25th Ralph  G.  Johanson  recently  moved 

to  the  Louisville  (Ky.)  office  of  G.  Reynolds 
Watkins  Consulting  Engineers,  Inc.,  where 
he  has  assumed  responsibilities  for  the  civil 
and  sanitary  engineering  operations  of  that 
office.  A  professional  engineer,  his  accom- 
plishments have  included  final  design  of  the 
Fort  Knox,  Ky.,  sewage  treatment  plant  and 
he  has  led  his  firm's  joint  design  responsi- 
bilities on  the  $73  million  waste  water  treat- 
ment expansion  and  improvements  for 
Sanitation  District  No.  1  in  Campbell  and 
Kenton  Counties,  Kentucky. 

Philip  M.  Keenan  has  been  named  environ- 
mental engineering  supervisor  at  Colt 
Industries  Firearms  Division,  Hartford,  Conn. 
In  1 968  he  joined  the  company  as  a  manufac- 
turing engineer.  Currently  he  is  completing 
work  on  his  master's  in  environmental  engi- 
neering at  rpi Robert  M.  Kendrick,  sim, 

was  appointed  sales  manager,  North  Amer- 
ica, textile  service  parts  division  of  Leesona 
Corporation.  He  will  be  responsible  for  tex- 
tile service  parts  selling  activities  in  North 
America  and  will  be  located  at  the  Leesona 
Regional  Center  in  Ft.  Mill,  S.C.  Earlier  he 
was  with  Crompton  &  Knowles  Corporation 
and  Curtis  &  Marble  Corporation. . . .  John  J. 
McDonnell  serves  as  a  systems  programmer 
at  Thorn  McAn  Shoe  Co.,  Worcester —  Dr. 
Kenneth  D.  Roettger  is  now  coordinator  of 
the  Mt.  Senario  College  Drug  Abuse  Pre- 
vention and  Intervention  Project  in  which  he 
coordinates  all  drug  and  alcohol  projects  in  a 
six-county  area  in  northern  Wisconsin.  He  is 
developing  innovative  activity  programs  for 

nineteen  high  schools David  K.  Smith  is 

a  project  engineer  for  the  renewal  and  exten- 
sion of  a  water  supply  system  for  the  city  of 
Bogor  in  Indonesia. 


18  ■  •         WPI  Journal 


ST    '  n^&)J 


Happy  days 

will  be  here 

again... 


. . .  when  you  invest  in  WPVs  Pooled  Life  Income  Fund 


Consider  these  attractive  advantages  for  Alumni  investors: 

*  A  generous  annual  rate  of  income  for  the  rest  of  your  lifetime  (and  that  of  a 
designated  beneficiary,  if  you  so  choose). 

*  The  satisfaction  of  making  a  gift  during  your  lifetime  which  will  become  a 
permanent  part  of  WPI's  financial  resources. 

*  A  charitable  contribution  deduction  on  your  federal  income  tax  return  for 
the  year  in  which  you  make  the  gift,  plus  reduction  of  the  eventual  tax  on 
your  estate. 

*  Careful  management  of  your  assets  by  experienced  investment  counsellors. 

You'll  be  pleasantly  surprised  at  how  easily  you  can  "do  something  sub- 
stantial" —  for  yourself,  your  beneficiaries,  and  for  WPI  —  through  the  WPI 
Pooled  Life  Income  Fund.  (And  so  will  our  steadfast  friends  pictured  above, 
when  they  find  out!!) 

For  additional  information,  please  write: 

Director  of  Planned  Giving 
Office  of  University  Relations 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 

Or,  you  may  use  the  card  enclosed  in  this  issue  to  request  infor- 
mation about  the  WPI  Pooled  Life  Income  Fund.  We'll  respond 
promptly. 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/19 


We  proved  the  # 
high  performance  points  of 

Norton  diamond  multi-points 


■ 


■ 


S>lsrq 


Norton  Multi-Point  Diamond  Dressing  Tools  provide  uniformly  consistent 
diamond  size,  distribution,  and  concentration ..  .right  down  to  the  nub! 


For  a  long  time  now,  you've  been 
hearing  about  the  consistent 
high  quality  and  performance  of 
Norton  Multi-Point  Diamond 
Dressing  Tools.  And  the  fact  that 
the  diamonds  are  uniform  in  size 
and  evenly  distributed  through- 
out the  diamond  section  (matrix) 
by  a  patented  process.  Al  I  of  th  i  s 
is  done  to  assure  you  consistent 
duplication  of  dressing  action  on 
wheel  after  wheel . . .  right  down 
to  the  tool  shank! 

Now,  to  prove  it,  a  typical 
Norton  dressing  tool  was  put  to  a 


grueling  life  test*  on  very  hard 
grinding  wheels.  You  can  seethe 
results  in  the  "before-and-after" 
photo  of  one  tool  above.  After 
repeated  dressings,  the  tool 
retained  virtually  the  same  num- 
ber of  diamonds,  all  relative  in 
size  and  uniformly  spaced. 

This  means  truly  depend- 
able dressing  performance.  And 
true  value,  too.  Norton  multi-point 
tool  s  g  i  ve  you  m  uch  more  per- 
formancefor  much  less  money 
than  single-point  tools.  Plus  more 
productivity  without  resetting, 
maximum  dressings  per  carat, 
and  faster  dressing  rates.  And. . . 
they  don't  reflect  current  price 
increases  in  thediamond  market. 

Stocks  are  avai  lable  — 
off  the  shelf  —  for  nearly  any 


dressing  application  from  your 
Norton  Distributor.  Koebel 
Diamond  Tool  Division,  Norton 
Company,  9456 Grinnel  Avenue, 
Detroit,  Michigan  48213. 

*Tools  were  tested  on  a 
Cylindrical  Grinder,  using  Alundum™ 
(A54-P5VA)  wheels  running  at  820  rpm. 
Diamond  tools  were  fed  1  mil  radial/ 
pass  across  wheel  faces  at  30  in/min. 


NORTON 


Nobody  has  a  better  track  record. 


1963 


Born:  to  Dr.  and  Mrs.  Daniel  Pender  a  daugh- 
ter, Tassili  Martine,  on  December  9, 1 974. 
The  Penders  are  located  in  West  Chazy,  N.Y. 
Major  Richard  B.  Allen  is  now  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Tradoc,  systems  analysis  activity,  at 
White  Sands  Missile  Range  in  New  Mexico. 
. . .  Roland  F.  Boisvert  serves  as  a  manager 
at  Centronics  Data  Computer  Corp.,  Hudson, 
N.H Richard  T.  Dann  and  five  other  edi- 
tors of  Machine  Design  magazine  were  pre- 
sented with  the  Jesse  H.  Neal  Editorial 
Achievement  Award  on  February  13th.  The 
award  was  given  for  the  magazine's  issue  on 
electric  vehicles,  "Special  Report:  EV 
Revival,"  which  was  judged  best  special 
issue  in  the  category  of  business  pub- 
lications with  gross  advertising  revenues 
over  $1 ,250,000.  Neal  awards  are  given 
annually  by  the  American  Business  Press,  an 
association  of  business  publications.  Dann  is 
now  associate  editor  of  Machine  Design. . . . 
Paul  P.  Hausner,  who  received  his  mba  from 
Syracuse  University  last  year,  currently  is 
manager  of  engineering  support  at  Home- 
Siegler  Division  of  Lear  Siegler,  Inc.,  in  Hol- 
land, Mich Timothy  M.  Shea  serves  as 

site  manager  at  Kori  Nuclear  Plant  site  for 
Westinghouse  Electric  in  Pusan,  Korea. 


1964 


Benjamin  D.  Brunell  works  at  Honeywell 
Corp.,  Billerica,  Mass Robert  K.  Butler  is 

superintendent  of  the  Worcester  Vocational 

School  Department Dr.  Chao  S.  Chi  is  a 

principal  engineer  at  Digital  Equipment 

Corp.,  Maynard,  Mass James  E.  Gaffney 

works  as  a  consultant  for  Zeitler  Associates  x 
in  West  Redding,  Conn —  Donald  H. 
Holmes,  sim,  who  was  with  Warner  &  Swazey 

in  Worcester,  has  retired William  J.  Kas- 

zeta  has  been  employed  as  a  senior  engi- 
neer at  Solar  Energy  Systems,  Inc.,  Newark, 
Delaware. 

Captain  Robert  S.  Najaka  has  received  his 
master's  degree  from  the  Air  Force  Institute 
of  Technology,  Wright-Patterson  afb,  Ohio. 
He  is  being  assigned  to  Nellis  afb,  Nevada 
with  a  unit  of  the  Tactical  Air  Command.  He 
holds  the  aeronautical  rating  of  senior  pilot. 
. . .  Eugene  E.  Niemi,  Jr.,  recently  received 
his  PhD  in  mechanical  and  aerospace  engi- 
neering from  the  University  of  Massachu- 
setts. He  was  awarded  a  summer  faculty 
fellowship  by  the  National  Aeronautics  and 
Space  Administration.  He  spent  last  summer 
at  Langley  Field  in  Hampton,  Va.,  working 
with  a  nasa  design  team  studying  air-surface 
transportation  systems.  Currently  he  is  an 
assistant  professor  of  mechanical  engineer- 
ing at  Lowell  Technological  Institute  and 
teaches  aerodynamics  and  fluid  mechanics. 


. . .  Robert  W.  Palmer  is  with  the  Advanced 
Weaponry  Systems  Division,  U.S.  Navy,  in 

Washington,  D.C Charles  F.  Schoen- 

mann  holds  the  post  of  senior  analytical  engi- 
neer at  Hamilton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks, 

Conn John  R.  Wood,  sim,  is  manager  of 

manufacturing  engineering  at  Dymo 
Industries,  Inc.,  Randolph,  Mass. 


1965 


Married:  Kenneth  B.  Adrian  and  Miss  Jean  E. 
Beaudoin  on  January  1 7  in  Worcester.  The 
bride  graduated  from  bu  and  Western  Ken- 
tucky University.  She  is  a  credit  analyst  at 
Wright  Line/Barry  Wright  Corp.,  Worcester. 
The  groom  is  a  systems  analyst  at  Digital 
Equipment  Corp.,  Westminster. 

William  J.  Barlow,  Jr.,  sim,  was  recently 
named  vice  president  of  operations  for  the 
eastern  division  of  Wyman-Gordon  Co. 
Since  joining  the  company  in  1943  he  has 
held  several  management  positions  in  engi- 
neering and  manufacturing.  Prior  to  his  pro- 
motion he  was  division  manager  of 
operations. 

Ronald  Chand,  owner  of  Arsee  Design  & 
Manufacturing,  Inc.,  Worcester,  received  his 

American  citizenship  last  December 

Wayne  E.  Eddy  is  with  the  New  Hampshire 
Department  of  Public  Works  &  Highways  in 

Concord James  L.  Hammett,  Jr.,  works 

for  the  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Company Clin- 
ton F.  Kucera,  Jr.,  is  now  manager  and  qual- 
ity control  engineer  for  General  Electric  in 

Fitchburg,  Mass Ronald  R.  Schultz  works 

as  an  applications  programmer  at  Computer 

Consoles  in  Rochester,  N.Y Dr.  John  T. 

Wilson  has  been  named  a  vice  president  at 
the  structural  engineering  firm  of  Paul  J. 
Ford  and  Co.,  Columbus,  Ohio.  He  joined  the 
firm  at  its  inception  in  1 970.  The  Franklin 
County  chapter  of  the  Ohio  Society  of  Profes- 
sional Engineers  elected  him  the  "out- 
standing young  engineer"  for  1 975. 


1966 

Joseph  G.  Acker  recently  received  his  mba 
from  Bucknell  University  in  Lewisburg,  Pa. 
...  J.  William  Bowen  has  been  appointed 
vice  president  of  the  financial  controls  group 
at  the  Chase  Manhattan  Bank  in  New  York 
City.  He  joined  the  bank's  management  infor- 
mation division  last  year.  Previously  he  was 
an  assistant  administrator  of  housing  and 

development  for  New  York  City Ronald 

C.  Hayden  is  a  sales  engineer  at  Fisher  Con- 
trols Co.,  Marshalltown,  Iowa Edward  E. 

Johnson  has  joined  B.  F.  Perkins,  a  division 
of  Roehlen  Industries,  Chicopee,  Mass., 

where  he  serves  as  a  project  engineer 

Robert  A.  Lisauskas  is  a  supervisor  at  Riley 
Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. 

Carl  D.  Meredith,  Jr.,  is  a  process  engi- 
neer at  Ventron  Corp.,  Danvers,  Mass 

Robert  L.  Plum  works  as  a  project  engineer 

at  Dames  &  Moore,  Seattle,  Washington 

Dr.  Joseph  E.  Whalen  is  a  physicist  with 
Operations  Research,  Inc.,  Silver  Spring, 
Md. . . .  Navy  Lt.  (j.g.)  Frank  J.  Yohan,  Jr., 
recently  graduated  from  the  military  justice 
lawyer  course  at  the  Naval  Justice  School  in 
Newport,  R.I.  He  received  instruction  in  the 
application  and  administration  of  military  law 
and  procedures.  He  has  been  scheduled  to 
report  to  the  Naval  Legal  Service  Office  in 
Norfolk,  Va. 


1967 

Charles  F.  Bergeron  is  now  a  lead  controls 

engineeer  at  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston 

Frank  D.  Manter  has  been  employed  by 
E.C.A.,  Cambridge,  Mass Currently  Rich- 
ard B.  Plummer  works  for  LRC  in  Hudson, 

N.H James  A.  Wentworth  serves  as  a 

research  mechanical  engineer  for  the  Fed- 
eral Highway  Administration  in  Washington, 

D.C Gregory  J.  Goulet  has  joined  Fawn 

Realty  Inc.,  Nashua,  N.H. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 


15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975 1 21 


1968 


Married:  Geoffrey  P.  Tamulonis  and  Miss 
Delfina  Manuella  de  Teixeira  recently  in  Lis- 
bon, Portugal.  The  bride  graduated  from  Lis- 
bon University.  Her  husband  is  employed  by 
itt  and  has  been  stationed  in  Portugal  and 
Mozambique. 

Paul  G.  Beaudet,  an  office  engineer  for 
J.  A.  Jones  Construction  Co.,  is  now  located 
in  Longview.  Texas,  where  he  is  involved 
with  the  expansion  of  the  Schlitz  brewery. 
Alan  R.  Berg  is  associated  with  the  City  of 
Worcester  Bureau  of  Engineering Rich- 
ard J.  Caprioli  is  a  project  engineer  for  E.  I. 
du  Pont  de  Nemours,  Leominster,  Mass. 

Galo  O.  Cascante-Lopez  of  Quito,  Ecua- 
dor, has  been  a  participant  in  the  Inter- 
national Visitor  Program  sponsored  by  the 
U.S.  Department  of  State.  He  visited  the 
United  States  to  increase  his  understanding 
of  the  application  of  advanced  technologies 
in  electronics  to  the  needs  of  society.  Cur- 
rently he  serves  as  program  manager  for 
Electronics  and  Communication  Industries 
in  the  Andean  Common  Market  Secretariat 
which  represents  Venezuela,  Colombia, 
Ecuador,  Peru,  Bolivia  and  Chile.  Also  he 
works  as  a  consultant  for  the  Ecuadorian 
Institute  of  Telecommunications.  Earlier  he 
was  with  the  nasa  Satellite  Tracking  Station 
at  Cotopaxi,  Ecuador;  was  a  professor- 
researcher  at  Escuela  Politecnica  Nacional; 
and  a  consultant  for  the  departments  of 
industry  and  technology. 

Edward  M.  Chausz  is  a  process  engineer 
at  American  Cyanamid  in  Wallingford,  Conn. 
Presently  Gerald  F.  Cronin  works  for  Cop- 
pus  Engineering  Corp.,  Worcester. . . .  Fred- 
erick J.  Eckert  is  a  machine  design  engineer 
at  Tulox  Plastics  in  Norwalk,  Conn. . . .  Israel 
Mac  has  been  promoted  to  the  position  of 
comprehensive  development  plans  coor- 
dinator in  the  Atlanta  (Ga.)  department  of 
budget  and  planning.  He  will  be  responsible 
for  the  preparation  and  publication  of  the 
Cityof  Atlanta'scomprehensive  plans.  Prior 
to  his  promotion  he  had  served  as  principal 
transportation  planner. .  .    William  R. 
Nordstrom  is  the  manager  of  Cryogenic 
Gases,  Inc.,  Westboro,  Mass  .     John  J. 
Orciuch  is  a  project  engineer  at  American 
Cyanamid,  Wallingford,  Conn 

Andrew  L.  Piretti  works  as  a  special  agent 
for  the  Northwestern  Mutual  Life  Insurance 
Co..  Bloomfield.  Conn        Raymond  F. 
Racine  is  a  Senior  engineer  in  the  rotating 
equipment  department  of  Ralph  M  Parsons 
Co  ,  in  Pasadena,  Calif        Dr  Richard  A. 
Snay  is  a  mathematician  with  the  National 
Geodetic  Survey  in  Rockville,  Maryland 


John  R.  Trudeau  is  a  systems  engineer  at 
Hewlett-Packard,  data  systems  division, 
Cupertino,  Calif.  Formerly  he  was  with  the 
processes  branch  of  ge's  research  and 
development  center  in  Schenectady,  N.Y. 
Frederick  W.  White  serves  as  a  project  engi- 
neer at  American  Bosch,  Springfield,  Mass. 

Mark  A.  Freyermuth  recently  received 
his  master's  degree  in  marketing  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts.  He  is  an  elec- 
tronics sales  engineer  for  ge  in  Wellesley. 


1970 


1969 


David  J.  Barrett  is  employed  as  an  associate 
production  engineer  at  New  England  Power 
in  Salem,  Mass. . . .  Jeffrey  C.  Bernard  serves 
as  an  associate  physicist  at  Calspan  Corp., 
Buffalo,  N.Y.      Harvey  S.  Bierenbaum  holds 
the  post  of  assistant  professor  of  chemical 
engineering  at  the  University  of  South  Flor- 
ida in  Tampa. . . .  Bruce  L.  Carlson  is  with 
Northeast  Utilities  in  Middletown,  Conn. 
Richard  W.  Check  works  for  Black,  Crow 
and  Eidsness,  Inc.,  Atlanta,  Ga. 

Michael  J.  Cohen  holds  the  position  of 
marketing  representative  at  Scientific  Time 

Sharing  Corp.,  Boston Gregory  B.  Enz  is 

an  instructor  for  at&T  at  the  Bell  System  Cen- 
ter for  Technical  Education,  Lisle,  III. ...  Dr. 
Robert  R.  Gagne  serves  as  a  research 
instructor  in  the  chemistry  department  at  Cal- 
ifornia Institute  of  Technology  in  Pasadena. 

Neil  Glickstein  is  now  a  graduate  student 
at  San  Francisco  State  University,  where  he 
is  studying  marine  biology. . . .  William  E.  Hal- 
lock  is  president  of  Mimco  Associates,  Lon- 
donderry, N.H. . . .  Craig  L.  Mading  is  a 
graduate  student  at  Boston  University,  and 
George  T.  McCandless,  Jr.,  is  doing  gradu- 
ate work  at  the  University  of  Minnesota  in 
Minneapolis. 

Stephen  E.  Platz  serves  as  a  scientific  pro- 
grammer at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  East 
Hartford,  Conn. . . .  Robert  B.  Reidy  works  for 
Abco  Engineering  Corp.,  Pawtucket,  R.I. . . . 
Martin  Surabian  has  been  promoted  from 
senior  mechanical  engineer  to  mechanical 
engineering  group  supervisor  with  Bechtel 
Power  Corporation,  Gaithersburg,  Md. . . . 
Henry  S.  Sweet  is  a  systems  analyst  for  Trav- 
elers Insurance,  Hartford,  Conn. . .  .  Richard 
J.  Warren  holds  the  post  of  president  at  Ben 
Mont  Corp.,  Bennington,  Vt. . . .  Dr.  Charles 
M.  Zepp,  who  received  his  PHD  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Massachusetts  last  year,  is  cur- 
rently employed  at  Polaroid  Corp., 
Cambridge,  Mass. .    .  Currently  Steven  Zieve 
serves  as  a  program  analyst  for  the  Hartford 
Insurance  Group  in  Hartford,  Conn. 


Married:  Michael  F.  Sullivan  and  Miss  Lor- 
rene  Mae  Waller  on  November  30, 1 974  in 
Louisville,  Kentucky.  Mrs.  Sullivan  gradu- 
ated from  Union  College,  Barbourville,  Ky., 
earning  her  master's  degree  from  the  Univer 
sity  of  Louisville.  Her  husband  is  a  project 
engineer  at  Colgate-Palmolive  Co.  in  Louis- 
ville... .  Raymond  T.  Pajer  to  Miss  Beverly  A 
Lowe  on  November  29, 1 974  in  Orange  Con- 
necticut. Mrs.  Pajer,  a  graduate  of  Southern 
Connecticut  State  College,  teaches  in  a  pri- 
vate school  in  Westport.  Her  husband 
received  his  msee  in  1 972  from  New  York  Uni 
versify  and  is  employed  as  an  electrical  engi- 
neer at  Yale  University. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  David  J.  Lawton,  a 
son,  David  Edward,  on  September  1 5, 1 974. 
David  has  a  sister,  Susan  Marie,  2.  Lawton 
works  in  the  field  of  air  pollution  control  for 
Koppers  Company,  Environmental  Elements 
Corporation,  of  Baltimore,  Md.  As  a  field 
engineer,  he  has  traveled  extensively 
throughout  the  U.S.  and  Canada. 

Richard  F.  Abrams  is  a  process  engineer 
at  CIT  Nuclear  Division  of  Dasa  Corp.,  Wal- 
tham,  Mass. . . .  Michael  E.  Arslan  works  at 
Hamilton  Standard,  division  of  United  Air- 
craft, Windsor  Locks,  Conn. . . .  Gregory  E. 
Barnhart  has  been  employed  at  Siliconix  in 
Vienna,  Va. . . .  Philip  D.  Bartlett,  Jr.  is  a 
group  supervisor  at  DuPont,  Antioch,  Calif. 
■   .  Henry  R.  Block  was  recently  promoted  to 
nuclear  project  engineer  for  Pennsylvania 
Power  &  Light  Company's  Susquehanna 
Nuclear  Plant  Project.  He  had  been  an  engi- 
neer at  the  Susquehanna  Project  since  join- 
ing PP&L's  nuclear  department  in  1 972. 
David  R.  Brown  had  been  promoted  to 
engineering  supervisor  in  the  water  control 
equipment  engineering  department  at  Rod- 
ney Hunt  Co.,  Orange,  Mass.  He  began  work- 
ing at  the  firm  in  1 971  after  having  been 
employed  by  Alden  Research  Laboratory. 
Robert  DiDomenico  holds  the  post  of  senior 
engineer  at  American  Bosch,  Springfield. 
Mass. .     William  F.  Dudzik  is  with  the  depart- 
ment of  the  Navy,  Navy  Yard,  Washington, 
DC        Domenic  Forcella  was  recently 
elected  justice  of  the  peace  in  Plainville, 
Conn.  Dom  says  he  is  giving  special  rates  to 
fellow  graduates  from  wpi. 

James  F.  Ford  has  been  promoted  to  sen- 
ior actuarial  associate  at  State  Mutual  Life 
Assurance  Company  of  America  in 
Worcester. 

Jack  Gale  is  now  the  golf  pro  at  the  Roch- 
ester (N.H.)  Country  Club.  For  the  past  three 
years  he  has  been  chief  assistant  pro  at 
Holden  (Mass.)  House  and  Country  Club. 
Gale,  a  Class  A  golf  professional,  served  as 
vice  president  at  large  and  treasurer  of  the 

New  England  Assistant  (golf  professional) 
Association. 


22    April  1975     WPIJournal 


*EACH  UNIT  OF  COVERAGE  REDUCES  FROM 
$10,000  TO  $7000  AT  AGE  60  AND  TO 
$4000  AT  AGE  65. 

*Age  last  birthday  as  of  postmark  date  on  your 
return  envelope. 


GROUP  PREMIUMS 
FOR  EACH  $10,000* 

At  Ages**       V2-yearly 


Under  30 
30-34 
35-39 
40-44 
45-49 
50-54 
55-59 
60-64 
65-70 


$12 
13 
17 
24 
37 
58 
92 
92 
92 


*5#* 


H 


Address  inquiries  to  ADMINISTRATOR;  AID,  Division  of  EL  Corp.,  962  Asylum  Ave.,  Hartford,  CT  06105 


Roses  are  red, 
Violets  are  blue, 
Sugar  is  sweet 
And  lemons  are  too! 


Maybe  you're  a  diabetic  and  must  carefully  control  your  intake  of  sugar.  Or  maybe 
you're  just  concerned  with  the  amount  of  sugar  in  your  diet.  With  all  the  processed, 
packaged,  and  prepared  food,  the  soft  drinks  and  the  snacks  we  eat,  the  average  per- 
son consumes  a  lot  of  sugar  in  the  course  of  a  year.  And  nutritionists  are  warning  us 
increasingly  of  the  dangers  to  our  health  from  the  excessive  and  empty  calories  in 
sugar  —  any  kind  of  sugar,  including  honey  and  blackstrap  molasses. 

Dr.  Robert  J.  Harvey,  PhD  70,  has  an  answer  to  that  problem  that  very  nearly  falls 
into  the  category  of  being  a  miracle.  He  is  trying  to  market  an  extract  from  an  African 
fruit  which  has  some  amazing  properties  and  could  go  a  long  way  toward  reducing 
the  amount  of  sugar  we  eat. 

He  calls  his  product  the  "Miracle  Fruit  Drop."  It  is  a  protein  extracted  from  the 
berries  of  a  shrub-like  tree  (scientific  name:  Synsepalum  dulcificum)  first  discovered 
in  Africa  centuries  ago.  The  berry,  when  chewed,  reacts  with  the  tastebuds  on  the 
tongue  to  cause  the  receptors  that  normally  trigger  the  sour  (and  to  a  much  lesser 
extent)  bitter  sensations  to  produce  instead  the  sweet  taste. 

Although  the  African  fruit  has  been  known  for  a  long  time,  it  was  only  a  local 
curiosity  because  the  fruit  rapidly  lost  its  powers  after  being  picked.  A  few  hours  off 
the  tree  and  the  effect  was  entirely  gone.  By  discovering  how  to  extract  the  protein 
which  is  responsible,  Harvey  has  made  possible  the  widespread  and  commercial  use 
of  the  effect.  The  company  is  growing  the  fruit  trees  on  plantations  in  Jamaica  (where 
they  thrive  even  better  than  in  their  native  Africa),  with  some  acres  currently  planted. 

In  its  present  form  the  Miracle  Fruit  Drop  is  a  tablet  that  is  chewed  before  eating. 
After  taking  one  of  these  tablets,  you  can  enjoy  sweet  and  extremely  natural  lemon- 
ade, for  example,  using  only  fresh  lemons  and  water.  Normally  far  too  tart  for  com- 
fort, the  lemon  becomes  an  enjoyable  fruit  that  can  be  eaten  like  an  orange.  (Watch 
your  ulcer,  of  course:  it's  still  acid,  even  if  it  tastes  sweet!) 

Of  course,  this  "miracle"  has  a  few  shortcomings.  For  one  thing,  it  won't  sweeten 
your  coffee  —  its  effects  are  primarily  on  acidic  foods.  It  makes  beer  and  wine  too 
sweet  for  many  people.  Then  too,  there  are  some  foods  we  expect  to  taste  acidic:  eat- 
ing a  green  salad  with  vinegar  and  oil  after  chewing  a  Miracle  Fruit  Drop  provides  a 
strange  (though  not  unpleasant)  sensation. 

The  Miralin  Company  of  Hudson,  Massachusetts,  of  which  Dr.  Harvey  is  presi- 
dent, has  also  prepared  an  extensive  cookbook  and  a  number  of  special  prepackaged 
foods  —  salad  dressing,  desserts,  sauces,  and  others  —  meant  to  be  used  in  conjunction 
with  the  tablets.  They  feel  the  ultimate  potential  and  the  most  significant  use  for  the 
protein  extract  is  in  the  vast  field  of  processed  and  prepared  foods,  which  use  sugar 
and  corn  syrup  extensively  as  sweeteners  to  increase  the  popularity  of  their  products. 

At  present  there  are  two  major  bars  in  the  way  of  Harvey's  miracle.  First  is  the 
a  *l ,  presently  very  high  at  about  $2  for  a  box  of  1 8  drops.  Second  is  the  fact  that  the 
Food  and  Drug  administration  has  so  far  refused  to  allow  Miralin  to  market  the 
drops,  claiming  them  to  be  a  chemical  food  additive  rather  than  a  natural  protein 
which  is  a  food  itself.  The  company  has  been  engaged  in  a  long  running  battle  with 
the  federal  agency  to  get  the  tablet  cleared  for  public  sale. 


Philip  H.  Johnson  teaches  at  the  Bancroft 

School  in  Worcester Alan  M.  Kolacz- 

kowski  serves  as  a  systems  engineer  at  Gen- 
eral Atomic  Co.,  San  Diego,  Calif 

Stephen  Koshgarian  works  as  a  shift  super- 
intendent at  Continental  Can  Co.,  Passaic, 
N.J —  James  S.  Lovendale  is  a  senior  pro- 
grammer at  Simonds  Cutting  Tools  in  Fitch- 
burg,  Mass —  Edward  M.  Mason  works  as  a 
manufacturing  projects  manager  at  Stand- 
ard Oil  of  Indiana  in  Chicago Alexander 

Murdoch  is  a  graduate  student  at  Purdue 
University  in  Lafayette,  Indiana,  and  William 
Naas  is  doing  graduate  work  at  Northeastern 
University  in  Boston. 

Craig  D.  Olmsted  works  for  Stone  &  Web- 
ster Engineering  Corp.,  Boston. . . .  Bruce S. 
Robinson  has  been  employed  by  at&T  in 

Morristown,  N.J Frederick  M.  Rymsha 

now  works  for  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Rye, 
N.Y Michael  E.  Santom  is  a  field  engi- 
neer at  CBX  Development  Corp.,  Leomins- 
ter, Mass John  O.  Tarpinian  is  a  graduate 

student  at  Boston  University Stephen  A. 

Turek  is  a  process  engineer  at  Allied  Chem- 
ical Corp.,  Morristown,  N.J. 


1971 


Married:  Louis  R.  Howayeck  to  Miss  Sherrill 
L.  Forester  on  February  1 , 1 975  in  Greenville, 
Massachusetts.  The  groom  works  for  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New- 
port  Martin  I.  Rose  and  Miss  Denyce  A. 

Dauwalder  on  August  31 , 1 974  in  Newfield, 
N.J.  The  bride,  a  free-lance  copywriter,  is  a 
graduate  of  Becker  and  the  University  of  Kan- 
sas. Her  husband  is  an  acoustics  engineer 
for  the  Electric  Boat  Division  of  General 
Dynamics  in  Groton,  Conn. 

Richard  J.  Carroll  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  manufacturing  at  Warren  Pumps, 

Inc.,  Warren,  Mass Joseph  B.  Carter 

graduated  with  an  md  degree  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Minnesota  Medical  School  in 
December.  He  plans  to  continue  at  the  uni- 
versity where  he  will  specialize  in  the  study  of 

the  ear,  nose,  and  throat Bruce  R.  Des- 

marais  works  for  Standard  Register,  Worces- 
ter. . .    Reginald  G.  Dunlap  is  employed  in 
the  container  department  at  International 
Paper  Co  in  Mason,  Ohio. . . .  Dan  Dunleavy 
holds  the  post  of  sales  engineer  at  Hope  Co., 
Fitchburg,  Mass.  He  received  his  mba  from 
Boston  University  in  December. . . .  Paul  S. 
Furclnltti  is  a  teaching  assistant  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  New  Hampshire  where  he  received 
his  ms  in  physics  last  year. 


24    April  1975     WPI Journal 


Bryan  L.  Furtek  is  a  graduate  student  at 
Yale  University,  New  Haven,  Conn Wil- 
liam P.  Garvey  works  for  Fenwal,  Inc.,  Ash- 
land, Mass Gordon  E.  Govalet  serves  as 

a  structural  engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp. 
Worcester. . . .  Alan  P.  Gradet  has  been 
employed  as  a  research  scientist  at  Process 

Research,  Inc.,  Cambridge,  Mass 

Michael  Hughes  is  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Fort 

Carson,  Colo Larry  N.  Hyman,  who  has 

completed  three  years  of  active  Army  service 
as  a  lieutenant  in  the  Military  Police  Corps, 
has  accepted  a  position  with  the  Michigan 
division  of  Dow  Chemical.  His  initial  assign- 
ment is  in  the  Midland  plant Walter  M. 

Jensen,  Jr.  is  an  associate  professor  at  Cen- 
tral New  England  Colleges  in  Worcester. 

Timothy  C.  Johnson,  who  had  been  serv- 
ing in  the  U.S.  Army,  is  now  at  Stone  &  Web- 
ster, Boston Alan  J.  Kaechele  holds  the 

position  of  programmer/analyst  at  National 

Cash  Register,  San  Diego,  Calif Stephen 

Katz  is  production  and  inventory  control 
supervisor  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  West- 
field,  Mass Elaine  S.  Kowalewski  is  a 

graduate  student  at  the  University  of  Con- 
necticut—  Harry  E.  Lockery  works  for  Hott- 
inger  Balwin  Measurement,  Inc.,  Natick, 
Mass Nicola  LoStracco  teaches  math- 
ematics at  Sutton  (Mass.)  Memorial  High 
School —  Bipin  I.  Mehta  is  a  structural 
designer  at  Schoenfeld  Associates,  Inc.,  Bos- 
ton—  Anthony  J.  Monteiro  works  for  Hud- 
son Lights  Power  Dept.,  Hudson,  Mass. 

The  First  FederaLSavings&  Loan  Associ- 
ation of  Worcester  has  employed  Donald  R. 
Nadow Gerald  J.  Orre  is  with  Audio  Vis- 
ual Service,  Worcester Michael  S.  San- 

tora  serves  as  a  project  engineer  at  R.  Zoppo 
Co.,  Inc.,  Norwood,  Mass James  H.  Sni- 
der has  joined  Babcock  &  Wilcox  in  Lynch- 
burg, Va Lawrence  J.  Sniegoski  holds 

the  post  of  marketing  manager  at  Pan- 

ametrics  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass Gerald 

R.  Spring  is  with  the  ecc  Corporation, 

Holden,  Mass William  J.  St.  Hilaire  has 

joined  Riley  Stoker  Corp.  in  Worcester 

Gregory  A.  Taylor  is  a  design  engineer  at 
United  Engineers,  Knoxville,  Tenn. 

Paul  R.  Swenson  works  as  a  technical  spe- 
cialist at  Alden  Research  Lab.,  Holden, 
Mass —  Joseph  A.  Thomas  has  joined 
Stone  &  Webster  in  Boston. . . .  Walter  V. 
Thompson  holds  the  position  of  plant  man- 
ager at  Natural  Power  Inc.,  New  Boston,  N.H. 
.  .  .  Thornton  H.  Waite  is  with  United  Engi- 
neers &  Constructors,  Inc.,  in  Philadelphia, 


Pa —  Glenn  H.  White  serves  as  a  teaching 
assistant  at  suny/ Albany,  Albany,  N.Y.  He  is 
a  first  year  graduate  student  in  atmospheric 

sciences Dana  H.  Worthley  works  for 

Richmond  Graphic  Systems,  Providence, 
R.I —  Currently  Ronald  L.  Zarrella  is  man- 
ager of  planning  at  Clairol,  Inc.,  Stamford, 
Conn —  Michael  Zilora  serves  as  an  ana- 
lyst-programmer at  Allendale  Insurance  Co., 
Johnston,  R.I. 


1972 


Married:  Urmas  A.  Volke  and  Miss  Jacquel- 
ine M.  Catino  on  October  27, 1974  in  Worces- 
ter. The  bride  graduated  from  St.  Stephen's 
Central  Catholic  High  School. 

Raymond  E.  Canning  works  as  a  medical 
technologist  at  Putnam  Memorial  Hospital  in 

Bennington,  Vt Barbara  A.  Cawley  is  a 

graduate  student  at  Elizabethtown  (Pa.)  Col- 
lege  Vincent  J.  Colonero,  Jr.  has  been 

employed  by  Northeast  Utilities  Service  Co., 

Wethersfield,  Conn Robert  A.  Colp  is  a 

process  engineer  at  Foster  Wheeler  Energy 

Corp.,  Livingston,  N.J John  G.  Croft,  Jr., 

sim,  is  now  a  partner  in  Woodington  Assoc, 

Worcester,  Mass Thomas  P.  Cusson 

'  serves  as  an  assistant  engi  neer  for  the  Cen- 
tral Mass.  Air  Pollution  Control  District  in 
Worcester. 

Edwin  J.  Dolph  works  as  a  computer  appli- 
cations analyst  at  Goodyear  Tire  &  Rubber 

Co.,  Akron,  Ohio Major  Robert  A.  Dorf  is 

chief,  data  systems  division,  U.S.  Army,  Aber- 
deen Proving  Grounds,  Md Dr.  Albert  A. 

Heaney,  who  works  in  advanced  weapon 
control  engineering  development  for  ge  in 
Pittsfield,  Mass.,  heads  up  an  advanced 
development  group  in  the  ordnance  division. 
. . .  Theodore  D.  Johnson  is  with  the  UConn 
Health  Center  in  Farmington,  Conn Wil- 
liam E.  Kamb  serves  as  a  cost  engineer  at 

Turner  Construction,  Cleveland,  Ohio 

Paul  A.  Lavigne  is  production  control  man- 
ager at  Jamesbury  Corp.,  Worcester 

Paul  A.  Lawendowski  is  a  naval  officer  with 
the  uss  Francis  Hammond  out  of  San 
Francisco. 

David  L.  LeBlanc,  a  dealer  salesman  for 
Gates  Rubber  Co.  of  Denver,  Colo.,  also 
serves  in  a  U.S.  Army  Reserve  Control  group. 

He  is  located  in  Worcester Lt.  Steven  H. 

Lutz,  an  executive  officer  with  the  Army,  was 
transferred  to  Europe  last  June.  He  is  with 

the  82nd  Engineer  Batallion Theodore  A. 

Martin,  Jr.,  is  a  technical  specialist  at  Bow- 


mar  Products,  Tucson,  Ariz Richard  J. 

Meighan  holds  the  post  of  manager  at 
Impulse,  Inc.,  at  Auburn  (Mass.)  Mall Ste- 
ven M.  Kay  is  a  graduate  student  at  wpi 

John  F.  O'Donnell  is  a  civil  engineer  for  the 

town  of  Wilmington,  Mass Edward  G. 

Perkins  serves  as  a  systems  administrator- 
programmer  at  Blue  Streak,  Professional 
Operating  Management  Group,  Inc.,  Boston. 
He  is  also  working  for  his  ms  in  computer  sci- 
ence at  wpi. 

Gene  Roe  is  an  instructor  in  civil  tech- 
nology at  Thompson  School  of  Applied  Sci- 
ences at  unh  in  Durham Raymond  W. 

Scanlon  works  as  a  programmer  at  Foxboro 
(Mass.)  Co —  Edward  D.  Schrull  is  with 
Westinghouse  Hanford  Co.  in  Richland, 
Washington Shawn  L.  Sullivan  is  a  serv- 
ices engineer  at  Amstar  Corp.,  Boston Lt. 

John  L.  Tunstall,  a  U.S.  Air  Force  pilot,  is 

being  assigned  to  Udorn,  Thailand Jon  R. 

Wimer  holds  the  post  of  textile  division  man- 
ager-New England  region  for  Measurex 

Corp.  of  Cupertino,  Calif John  Zorabe- 

dian,  Jr.,  has  moved  to  ge's  boiling  water 
reactor  operation  in  San  Jose,  Calif.  Pre- 
viously he  was  president  of  the  Hudson- 
Mohawk  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 


1973 


Married:  Thomas  H.  Field,  III,  to  Miss  Susan 
M.  Feinzeig  on  September  21 , 1 974  in 
Rindge,  New  Hampshire.  Mrs.  Field  gradu- 
ated from  David  Hale  Fanning  Trade  High 
School  of  Practical  Nursing,  Worcester.  Her 
husband  works  at  Genovese  &  Associates, 

Hamden,  Conn Miss  Lorraine  C.  Lind  of 

Millbury,  Massachusetts  to  Richard  Caruso, 

'75,  on  April  1 , 1 974 Stephen  A.  Maior- 

ano  to  Miss  Elizabeth  Ann  Bradley  recently  in 
Providence,  Rhode  Island.  Mrs.  Maiorano 
graduated  from  Anna  Maria  College.  The 
groom  is  employed  by  Daniel  O'Connell's 
Sons,  Holyoke,  Mass. 
Alan  C.  Aho  works  at  American  District 

Telegraph  Co.  in  New  York  City Alan  L. 

Amirault,  who  is  a  security  guard  at  Jordan 
Marsh  Co.,  Worcester  Center,  is  also  in  the 

mba  program  at  Clark  University FredS. 

Banach  has  joined  the  Connecticut  Environ- 
mental Protection  Department  in  Hartford. 
. . .  Peter  F.  Bonaccorsi  is  a  project  engineer 
at  Buck  &  Pierce,  Sanitary  Systems,  St. 
Albans,  Vt. . . .  Richard  J.  Bors  is  a  graduate 
student  in  the  electrical  engineering  depart- 
ment at  wpi Christopher  A.  Broders  is  a 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/25 


Wy man-Gordon  Energy  Report 


Wyman-Gordon  Energy- 
Saving  Campaign  Aids 
Community  and  Company 


The  saving  of  gas,  oil  and 
electricity  in  YV-G's  energy  re- 
duction campaign  would  sup- 
ply the  needs  of  some  1,500  to 
2,000  homes.  And  our  cam- 
paign continues  to  grow. 

As  energj  shortages  deepen, 
conservation  by  each  user 
helps  ease  the  crunch  for 
everyone.  YV-G's  effort  not  only 
increases  company  efficiency 
but  can  be  important  to  the 
Worcester  area. 

Our  energy  campaign  has 
another  benefit  also;  by  rigor- 
ous control  of  all  costs  — 
energj  is  one  of  W-G's  sig- 
nificant costs  —  we  strengthen 


our  competitive  ability  to 
maintain  sales,  production  and 
employment  In  these  times  of 
business  slowdown  the  com- 
munity needs  all  its  industries 
operating  as  fully  as  possible. 
Metal  processing  requires  a 
lot  of  gas.  oil  and  electricity  ; 
we're  one  of  the  largest  users 
in  New  England.  Our  opera- 
tions have  increased  and  we've 
been  installing  improved  pol- 
lution control  equipment 
which  takes  additional  power. 
But  at  the  same  time  we've  re- 
duced our  energy  use  some 
15%,  and  are  still  making  prog- 
ress. 


Government  Agencies 
Issue  Warnings 


The  Federal  Energy  Ad- 
ministration and  other  agen- 
cies, both  government  and  pri- 
vate, are  giving  plenty  of  warn- 
ing on  the  ways  we'll  all  be 
affected  by  the  world  energy 
situation.  No  matter  who  is  to 
"blame''  or  how  many  in- 
terpretations come  at  us  from 
politically  motivated  sources 
the  problem  is  real,  and  we 
have  to  learn  to  live  with  its 
implications  as  they  confront 
us  dav    to  dav. 

\t  W-G  the  FEA  tells  us  we 

can't  increase  oil  usage  over 
last  vear  unless:  L)  we  cm  un- 
equivocally prove  our  need; 
and  21  we  have  a  well- 
established  and  effective  con- 
servation program.  The  gas 
company  tells  us  there's  a  real 
possibility  of  cutback  in  gas 
supply    to  W-G.    This  are, i  is  at 

irthesl      end      of      the 
pipelines  from  the  gas  fields; 


weather  and  supply  problems 
almost  anywhere  in  the  coun- 
try can  affect  the  supply  here. 
Electric  power  supply  seems 
OK  lor  this  year,  but  since 
much  of  our  power  is  gener- 
ated from  high-priced  im- 
ported oil  the  supply  picture 
could  change,  and  certainly 
prices  will  continue  high. 

Therefore,    to    keep    up   pro- 
duction, provide  service  to  cus- 
tomers  and    maintain   employ- 
ment,   our    conservation 
campaign  absolute! 
must  continue  as 
,i  top  priority 
effort  for  alb 


Twin  Energy 
Problems  are 
Here  to  Stay 

The  twin  troubles  of  escalat- 
ing cost  and  limited  supply 
will  be  with  us  for  a  long,  long 
time. 

They  affect  industry  just  as 
they  affect  homes.  They  mean 
changing  accustomed  ways  of 
doing  things,  increased  incon- 
venience and  discomfort,  at- 
tention to  details  we  used  to 
overlook,  continual  search  for 
new  ways  to  economize,  sig- 
nificantly altering  our  living 
habits.  These  are  now  a  per- 
manent part  of  our  industrial 
and  personal  way  of  life. 

This  isn't  news,  although 
some  people  still  try  to  pretend 
it's  unreal  or  will  disappear  if 
they  look  the  other  way.  What 
we  think  is  news  is  the  fact 
that  it  doesn't  have  to  be  all 
gloom,  frustration  and  impos- 
sible. Our  people  have  made 
great  strides  in  meeting  die 
facts  head  on,  have  taken  on 
some  inconvenience  and  many 
changes,  and  are  steadily  work- 
ing to  accomplish  more. 


Ways  W-G  Saves  Gas, 
Oi/  and  Electricity 


Many  steps  have  been  taken 
and  others  are  on  the  way. 
Some  of  them  are: 

1.  We  removed  electric 
lights  and  bulbs  where  not  in- 
dispensable for  acceptable 
minimum-level  lighting  for 
work.  The  total  taken  out  was 
over  1,000,000  watts.  This  is 
the  equivalent  of  20,000  50- 
watt  bulbs.  .  .  or  500,000  elec- 
tric clocks,  or  7,000,000  night 
lights! 

2.  Lights  and  motors  are 
turned  off  when  not  in  im- 
mediate use.  This  seems  an 
obvious  idea,  but  it's  not  easy 
to  accomplish;  it  takes  added 
thought  and  attention  by  many 
people  to  make  it  work.  Under 
the  new  facts  of  cost  and  lim- 
ited supply  it's  worth  the  ef- 
fort. 


cost-payback  basis.  But  now 
they  are  justified  by  the  new 
facts  of  decreased  supply  and 
increased  prices. 

6.  Improved  insulation  is 
being  maintained  on  certain 
structural  members  in  Grafton 
gas  furnaces.  This  change  by 
itself  will  eventually  save 
enough  gas  to  supply  several 
hundred  gas-heated  homes. 

7.  We  are  experimenting 
with  changing  furnace  linings 
from  firebrick  to  fiber  blanket. 
This  permits  faster  heating  and 
cooling  without  cracking  the 
lining  and  also  takes  less  gas  in 
startup  to  get  the  furnace  to 
operating  temperature.  The 
total  saving  can  be  as  much  as 
15%.  However,  the  fiber  lining 
is  more  costly  to  install  and  is 
easier  to  damage  when  loading 
or  unloading  the  furnace.  Its 
initial  use  will  probably  be  in 
car-bottom  units  which  are 
loaded  outside  the  heated  sec- 
tions of  the  furnace. 


tot^a° 


AW^ 


*o^e 


re*1** 


.GO*1 


x>c** 


W-G  Initiated  Program 
A/most  Two  Years  Ago 


Our  Energ)  Committee  was 

formed  in  earl)    1973  to  focus 

attention  on   stringent  control 

Mil  and  electricity,  the 

Big    three  energies   V  ital   to  oill 

operation.  I  Ins  was  months  be- 
fore di'    energ)   I  risis  was  gen- 

eralb     recognized,     and     oui 

Committee  was  one  of  the   first 

ol   its   kmd   anywhere   in   the 

(  oiintrv 

I  he  ( lommittee  in<  hides    [ 

1      lin,    Pun  basing     I      I 

<  bnneall) .    Prodw  Hon;    H     I 

Donle)     I  l 

I .   I  hirfei     F  a<  ilitiei  Engineer- 

I      Goods  peed,    Plant 

■  ring    Mm  Ii.kI  Hopper, 


Data  Processing;  |.  P.  Molony, 
Qualit)  Assurance  I  M  Mul- 
V  counting  and  L.  P. 
I'ouliot.  Plant  Engineering. 
Mav  Donle) .  .in  experii  need 
ngineer,  was  assigned 
full  time  to  the  effort. 

Supplv     shortages    and     puce 

■pec  ted    and 

we      hoped      tor     some      rebel 

through  the  work  ol  the  new 
( lommittee  But  we  certainl) 
didn't    .iiiti<  [pate    how    drastii 

the  shortages  oi  how  aslionom 
leal    the    prices    would    be;    nor 

did  we  realize  how  tiulv  sig- 
ihIk  ant  the  i  onset \ ation  i  am 
p.ugn  could  be. 


Thanks 

To  Our  People 

It's  Working 

Energy   sav  mg   in    industry, 

just  as  at  home,  requires  the 
interest,  cooperative  under- 
standing and  attention  to  detail 

of  everyone.  No  individual  or 
committee    can    do    the    job 

alone. 

W  >  re  proud  and  apprecia- 
tive of  the  support  all  our 
people  have  given  this  cam- 
paign.   I  he    record    proves    it. 

lUch  act  omplisl mt  is  im- 
possible  without    it. 


3.  Thermostats  are  set  low- 
er, and  windows  and  ven- 
tilators are  more  carefully  con- 
trolled. Again  requiring  atten- 
tion and  cooperation  ol  many 
people. 

I.  New      expansion      joints 

were  installed  in  steam  healing 

I ini'v    This  prciv  ides  increased 

flexibility   ol  heating  control  in 

the      plant      without      undue 

stlesses  III  the  steam  piping 
sv  stem. 

5.  New  gas  FumaceS  are  de- 
signed with  "recuperators'' 
which  use  hot  exhaust  gases  to 

preheat  incoming  combustion 
air  going  to  the  furnace  burn- 
ers. They  can  reduce  gas  con- 
sumption some   15'  ,  .   I  low  ev  ei  , 

they're  expensive  and  previ- 
ous!) Couldn't  be  justilied  on  a 


These  are  some  ol  the  steps 
we've  taken.  Ideas  come  from 
everywhere  and  even  one.  The 
Committee    acts    as    collectoi 

and  coordinator  as  well  as  in 
itiator. 


If  you  have  any  sugges- 
tions or  would  like  to  dis- 
cuss any  part  of  our  energy 
campaign  we  will  ap- 
preciate hearing  from  you. 

Please    get    in    (ouch    with    <>ui 

( lommittee      chairman,      TotD 

( *arl  in.   You  can   phone   I  inn  at 
839  I  I  II     oi     \\  rite     to    him, 

Wyman-Gordon 
Company 
Worcester,  Mass.  01601 


design  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard  in 

Windsor  Locks,  Conn Presently  Jason  J. 

Burbank  works  for  the  Environmental  Pro- 
tection Agency,  Office  of  Air  &  Water,  Emis- 
sion Standards  Division,  Durham,  N.C 

James  F.  Burke  is  an  assistant  engineer  at 
United  Engineers  &  Constructors,  Boston. 

Richard  N.  Carr,  Jr.,  serves  as  an  assistant 
actuary  at  Indianapolis  Life  Insurance  Co., 

Indianapolis,  Ind Paul  H.  Clark  has 

joined  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  Maynard, 

Mass Lee  Cooper  is  with  Ingersoll-Rand 

Co.,  Painted  Post,  N.Y. ...  V.  A.  Damle  has 
become  associated  with  Proctor  &  Gamble  in 

Toronto,  Canada James  W.  Davis  works 

for  Chicopee  Manufacturing  Co.  as  manager 
of  quality  assurance  at  the  firm's  Gainesville 

(Ga.)  finishing  plant Thomas  Deshefy 

works  for  Northeast  Utilities  in  Wethersfield, 

Conn Currently  John  F.  DiGregorio  serv- 

ces  as  a  process  development  engineer  at 
General  Electric,  Valox  section,  in  Mt.  Ver- 
non, Indiana James  P.  DiMilia  has  been 

employed  by  Codman  &  Shurtleff,  Inc.,  Ran- 
dolph, Mass. 

Michael  R.  Divis  is  a  graduate  student  at 
the  University  of  Montana Also  a  grad  stu- 
dent is  Eugene  A.  Eng,  who  is  at  Wentworth 

Institute  in  Boston Thomas  P.  Farrell  has 

been  employed  by  the  Foxboro  Co.,  East 

Bridgewater,  Mass Presently  Timothy  A. 

French  is  a  photo  department  supervisor  for 

E.  I.  du  Pont  in  Parlin,  N.J James  E.  Gag- 

liardo  is  with  Feecon  Corp.,  Westboro,  Mass. 
. . .  Geoffrey  Gerhard  holds  the  position  of 
president  at  West  Wind  Co.,  Farmington, 
N.M John  K.  Gill  works  for  United  Engi- 
neers &  Constructors,  Inc.,  Boston John 

A.  Goulet  is  a  graduate  student  at  rpi,  Troy, 
N.Y. 

Brian  S.  Gupt  ill,  who  works  for  Raytheon, 
is  currently  on  a  two-year  assignment  in  Ger- 
many—  Richard  S.  Hackett  is  manager  of 
production  planning  at  Johnson  Steel  &  Wire 

Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester William  L.  Hobbs  is 

doing  graduate  work  at  m. i. t.  .  .  .  Richard 
Hully  serves  as  president  of  Hias,  Inc.,  Wor- 
cester. .  .  .  Basil  K.  Karanikos  has  been 
appointed  a  controls  engineer  in  the  engi- 
neering section  of  Bay  State  Abrasives  Divi- 
sion, Dresser  Industries,  Inc.,  Westboro, 
Mass. .  .  .  Joshua  O.  Kolawole  has  joined  the 
ge  Research  and  Development  Center  in 
Schenectady,  N.Y.  He  plans  to  study  for  his 

msee  at  rpi  in  Troy Christopher  M.  Kralik 

is  with  Exxon  Research  &  Engineering,  Flor- 
ham  Park,  N.J. 

Thomas  J.  Landwehr  is  a  sales  agent  for 
New  England  Mutual  Life  Insurance  Co., 
Worcester Bruce  Olsen  works  as  a  sys- 
tem programmer  at  Thorn  McAn,  Worcester. 
. . .  Maurice  D.  LeTourneau  teaches  at  Quab- 

bin  Regional  High  School,  Barre,  Mass 

Michael  Lucey  is  still  with  the  Tighe  &  Bond 
division  of  Sippican  Consultants  Inter- 
national in  Holyoke,  Mass Robert  C. 

Mackenzie  has  joined  Curren  Assoc,  North- 


ampton, Mass Paul  L.  Martin  serves  as  a 

design  engineer  at  Kingsbury  Machine  Tool 
Corp.,  Keene,  N.H. . . .  William  H.  Mawdsley 
was  recently  promoted  to  actuarial  associate 
at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of 
America  in  Worcester. . . .  Peter  McDermott 
continues  as  a  chemical  engineer  at  Auroc 
Corp.,  Canton,  Mass. .  .  .  Thomas  J. 
Mclnerney  holds  the  post  of  plant  super- 
visor-latex products,  at  Sponge  Rubber 
Products,  Shelton,  Conn Paul  W.  Mel- 
nick  works  at  Avco  Lycoming,  Stratford, 
Conn 

Dorothy  O'Keefe  now  serves  as  an  indus- 
trial engineer  at  Norton  Co.  in  Worcester 

Bruce  C.  Parent,  Jr.,  sim,  is  a  product  man- 
ager at  Norton  Co. .  .  .  Frederick  J.  Paris 
works  for  General  Electric  Co.,  Lynn,  Mass. 
. . .  Paul  J.  Parulis  is  a  designer-engineer  in 
the  fired  heater  division  at  Foster  Wheeler 
Corp.  in  Livingston,  N.J Clifford  P.  Peter- 
son is  associated  with  the  Bank  of  Tokyo, 
Ltd.  (New  York  Agency),  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  John  D.  Perreault  is  a  civil  engineer  for 
the  town  of  Shrewsbury,  Mass. .  .  .  Michael 
D.  Peterson  holds  the  position  of  marketing 
coordinator  at  Valtec  Corp.,  West  Boylston, 

Mass Spiro  G.  Pitsaris  works  for  Table 

Talk,  Inc.,  Worcester. 

Dr.  Rajeshwar  Mathur  is  an  assistant  pro- 
fessor at  Fitchburg  (Mass.)  State  College 

Rand  J.  Refrigeri  has  been  employed  by 
C  &  R  Plumbing  and  Heating  in  Leominster, 
Mass Mark  S.  Richards  works  as  a  com- 
missary manager  at  Pizza  Transit  Authority, 
Chapel  Hill,  N.C. . . .  Martha  Ryan  is  with  the 
Medical  Research  Insitutue  of  Worcester, 

Inc.,  at  City  Hospital  in  Worcester R.  Lee 

Savery,  Jr.,  has  been  employed  by  Barn- 
stable County  Hospital,  Pocasset,  Mass 

William  A.  Schofield  is  manager,  bucket 
development  engineering,  atGE  in  Fitchburg, 

Mass Samuel  E.  Schumacher,  sim, 

serves  as  a  senior  industrial  engineer  at  Rus- 
sell Harrington  Cutlery,  Southbridge,  Mass. 

Charles  Scopelitis  is  an  assistant  engi- 
neer at  Northeast  Utilities,  Hartford,  Conn. 
.  .  .  Robert  G.Skillin,  sim,  is  vice  president- 
operations  at  Curtis  &  Marble  Corp.,  Worces- 
ter  Robert  L.  Steinberg,  who  is  in  the 

Navy,  is  currently  assigned  to  the  uss  Sche- 
nectady out  of  San  Francisco Douglas  H. 

Tarble  has  been  named  to  head  a  new 
department  in  the  Clairol  division  of  Bristol- 
Myers  Co.  He  will  be  coordinator  of  new 
products  and  will  be  responsible  for 
inception  of  marketing  ideas  through 
research  and  development  product  scale-up 
as  well  as  acquisition  of  components  and 
raw  materials  by  the  purchasing  department. 
Also,  he  will  evaluate  in-house  and  out-of- 
house  production  capacity.  He  joined  Clairol 
in  1 973  as  a  material  controller. . . .  Thomas 
H.  Uccellini  works  for  Structural  Enterprises, 

Inc.,  Troy,  N.Y Michael  J.  Varga  is  with 

the  Barden  Corp.,  Danbury,  Conn 

Andrew  B.  White  is  a  senior  applications  con- 


sultant at  Tymshare,  Inc.,  West  Newton, 
Mass —  John  B.  Whitney  is  doing  graduate 
work  at  wpi  —  Robert  L.  Winans,  Jr.,  has 
been  employed  by  SGB  Universal,  Red 
Hook,  N.Y —  Donald  G.  Woodward  serves 
as  project  manager  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp., 
Worcester. 


1974 

Married:  Steve  Dacri  and  Miss  Sheryl  Anne 
Ollie  in  Detroit,  Michigan  on  January  3, 1975. 
Mrs.  Dacri  graduated  from  Eastern  Michigan 
University  and  is  executive  secretary  for  her 
husband.  The  groom  is  a  professional  magi- 
cian and  owner  of  Steve  Dacri's  Magic  and 

Fun  Shop  in  Worcester Joseph  G. 

Bukowski  to  Miss  Ann  E.  Page  on  December 
14, 1974  in  Middleton,  Massachusetts.  The 
bride  is  a  Becker  graduate  and  is  employed 
at  Varian,  Beverly,  Mass.  Her  husband  works 

forWheelabrator-Frye,  Inc 2/Lt.  Thomas 

J.  Kielick  and  Miss  Cheryl  Anne  White  on 
February  8  in  Worcester.  The  bride  gradu- 
ated from  the  Memorial  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing  and  was  a  nurse  at  Wachusett  Home 
Health  Care  Agency.  Lt.  Kielick  is  an  army 
radio  systems  officer  stationed  in  Hoechst, 
Germany,  where  the  couple  is  now  residing. 

John  D.  Adams  has  been  employed  by  the 
National  Security  Agency,  Ft.  Geo.  G. 
Meade,  Md. . . .  Duane  R.  Arsenault  is  now  a 
project  engineer  at  Hamilton  Standard, 

Windsor  Locks,  Conn James  M.  Asaro 

serves  as  an  ensign  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Air  Sta- 
tion, Pensacola,  Fla.,  where  he  is  a  student 

aviator  working  for  his  wings Barbara  J. 

Bain  is  a  data  systems  analyst  at  Southern 
New  England  Telephone  Co.,  New  Haven, 
Conn Robert  H.  Becker  is  a  self- 
employed  computer  software  consultant  in 

Marlboro,  Mass Ali  L.  Beyranevand 

serves  as  a  senior  programmer  at  Honeywell 

in  Billerica,  Mass Stephen  E.  Braley  is  a 

grad  student  at  Georgia  Southern  College, 
Statesboro,  Ga. 

Paul  R.  Boulier works asajunior  research 
associate  at  Fabric  Research  Laboratories  in 

Dedham,  Mass Daniel  J.  Brunell  has 

been  employed  as  an  industrial  engineer  at 

Louis  Lefkowitz  &  Bro.,  Milltown,  N.J 

2/Lt.  Christophers.  Cigal,  who  recently 
completed  the  mechanical  maintenance  offi- 
cers' course  at  Aberdeen  Proving  Grounds, 
is  now  assigned  to  76th  HEM  Co.,  Ft.  Knox, 

Ky John  E.  D'Amico  works  for  United 

Nuclear  Corp.,  Uncasville,  Conn Francis 

E.  Dempsey,  Jr.,  has  been  employed  as  a  jun- 
ior programmer  by  ibm  in  Kingston,  N.Y 

William  J.  Dewkett,  Jr.,  teaches  at  North 
Salem  (N.Y.)  High  School. . . .  John  H.  Fel- 
lows works  as  a  structural  engineer  at 

Buell/Envirotech  Corp.,  Lebanon,  Pa 

2/Lt.  Robert  W.  Flanagan,  Jr.,  U.S.  Army,  is 
with  a  student  detachment  at  Fort  Benjamin 
Harrison,  Indiana.  Currently  he  is  assigned  to 
m.i.t.  as  a  graduate  student  in  physics. 


i 


WPI  Journal  I  April  1975/27 


2  Lt.  Robert  F.  Foley,  a  student  aviator  in 
the  U.S.  Marine  Corps,  is  located  in  Pensa- 
cola,  Fla James  E.  Gow  is  a  systems  ana- 
lyst at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Co.,  Wor- 
cester.      Alan  C.  Hallquist  serves  as  a  staff 
scientist  mathematician  at  Environmental 
Research  &  Technology  in  Concord,  Mass. 

.  .  .  Robert  Hodgson  is  a  systems  program- 
mer at  Honeywell,  Billerica,  Mass. . . . 
Charles  M.  Jackson  works  for  Windsor 
Coach  &  Carriage,  Inc.,  Sudbury,  Mass.  He 
handles  budget  problems  and  also  helps 
build  and  restore  horse-drawn  carts  and  car- 
riages. .  . .  Alan  C.  Judd  is  presently  located 
in  Columbia,  S.C.  at  the  ge  Capacitor  Divi- 
sion. . . .  Edward  J.  Kelly  serves  as  a  field 
service  representative  for  Hamilton-Stand- 
ard, Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 

Ronald  R.  L'Heureux  is  enrolled  in  the 
naval  flight  officer  program  at  nasc,  Pensa- 
cola,  Fla. . . .  Digital  Equipment  Corp.,  May- 
nard,  Mass.,  has  employed  Suresh  Masand 
as  a  senior  engineer. .     Richard  W.  McGuire 
is  employed  at  Oliver  J.  McGuire  &  Assoc, 
Toms  River,  N.J. . . .  Richard  W.  Miles  works 
for  Reed  Rolled  Thread  Die  Co.,  Holden, 
Mass. . .   2/Lt.  David  Nickless  serves  as  a 
motor  officer  with  the  U.S.  Army  in  Ft.  Sill, 
Oklahoma. . . .  David  W.  Packard  is  a  service 
engineer  at  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Worcester. . . 
.  2  Lt.  David  O.  Scott,  U.S.  Army,  is  located 
at  Ft.  Lewis,  Washington. . . .  Paul  J.  Scricco 
is  a  plant  engineer  at  Wachusett  Molding 
Corp.,  West  Boylston,  Mass. 

K.  N.  Setty  serves  as  superintendent  of 
industrial  engineering  at  itt  Suprenant  in 
Clinton,  Mass. .  .    Hunt  A.  Sutherland  works 
at  General  Electric  in  Pittsfield,  Mass. 

Alfred  J.  Swierad,  Jr.,  has  enrolled  in  the 
PhD  program  at  Texas  A  &  M  University,  Col- 
lege Station,  Texas,  where  he  also  teaches 
computer  science. . . .  Domenic  V.  Testa,  Jr., 
is  a  junior  engineer  at  Fay,  Spofford  &  Thorn- 
dike,  Boston        Anthony  N.  Tomasiello,  Jr., 
is  working  for  his  MS  degree  in  mathematics 
at  Boston  University        Bruce  A.  Webster  is 
currently  employed  by  Westinghouse  Elec- 
tric Corp.  at  Bettis  Atomic  Power  Laboratory, 
West  Mifflin,  Pa.       Mark  J.  Whitney  works 
with  the  subcompartment  analysis  group  at 
Combustion  Engineering.  Inc  ,  Windsor, 
Conn        Richard  Zarr  is  an  analytical  chem- 
ist at  Howmet  Corp  ,  Dover,  N.J 


Clifford  R.  Harris,  '96,  passed  away  on 
December  3, 1 974  in  Walnut  Creek,  Califor- 
nia. At  1 03  years  old,  he  was  considered  to 
bewpi'soldest  living  alumnus. 

Mr.  Harris  was  born  on  October  1 2, 1 871 , 
in  York,  Nebraska  and  graduated  with  a  bsme 
from  wpi.  His  son,  Joseph  Harris,  '27  writes: 
"Dad's  life  was  really  in  three  parts;  the  first 
part  would  end  in  1 91 1  when  the  truck  acci- 
dent happened  at  the  Morgan  Motor  Truck 
Co.  (Worcester)  where  he  was  superintend- 
ent; the  second  part  would  be  farming  to 
recover  his  health  (the  doctor  had  given  him 
six  monthsto  live);  and  finally  the  last  twenty- 
four  years  with  my  sister,  Bessie,  in  Walnut 
Creek." 

"Hink,"  as  he  was  known  to  his  friends  at 
wpi  taught  pattern  making  in  Washburn  from 
1 899  to  1 904.  During  his  career  he  was  also 
associated  with  Baldwin  Locomotive,  Stand- 
ard Plunger  Elevator  in  Worcester,  American 
Car  &  Foundry  and  the  Federal  Land  Bank. 
For  many  years  he  operated  a  1 50-acre  farm 
in  Millbury,  Mass.,  where  he  served  as  town 
moderator. 

He  was  busy,  even  in  retirement,  avidly  pur- 
suing his  hobby  of  turning  heirloom  watches 
into  miniature  grandfather  clocks.  Although 
he  neither  smoked  or  drank,  he  was  one  of 
the  most  active  card  players  in  the  Walnut 
Creek  Senior  Citizens  Club.  While  in  his90's 
he  participated  in  trips  to  Alaska,  Hawaii,  and 
Mexico. 

On  the  occasion  of  his  1 00th  birthday, 
"Hink"  was  asked  what  his  formula  was  for 
longevity. 

"It'ssimple,"  he  said.  "Choose  the  right 
grandparents." 

George  H.  Harrison,  '07,  died  in  Hyannis, 
Massachusetts  on  January  11,1 975  follow- 
ing a  long  illness.  He  was  88. 

Mr.  Harrison  was  the  owner  of  Harrison 
Motors,  Inc.,  Leominster  from  1938  to  1968 
and  moved  to  West  Yarmouth  about  seven 
years  ago.  He  was  born  in  Leominster  on 
May  1 0, 1 886,  and  graduated  as  a  civil  engi- 
neer from  wpi. 

He  belonged  to  the  Retired  Men's  Club  of 
Hyannis,  the  Massachusetts  Republican 
Club,  and  the  Unitarian  Church.  Mr.  Harri- 
son, a  third  degree  Mason,  was  also  a  former 
member  of  the  Leominster  City  Council. 


Howard  H.  Haynes,  '07,  passed  away  on  Jan- 
uary 21 , 1 975  in  Torrington,  Connecticut.  He 
was  90. 

He  was  born  on  January  1 8, 1 885  in  Stur- 
bridge,  Mass.  After  graduating  from  wpi  as 
an  electrical  engineer,  he  worked  for  Price 
McKinlock  Co.,  Boston.  Later  he  worked  for 
Hart  Mfg.  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.;  Underwriters 
Laboratories,  Connecticut  Electric  Mfg.  Co., 
International  Silver  Co.,  and  Remington 
Arms  Co.,  all  of  Bridgeport,  Conn.  At  his 
retirement  in  1 953  he  was  a  superintendent 
at  Connecticut  Electric  and  Switch  Manufac- 
turing Co.  in  Bantam.  He  was  a  member  of 

AIEE. 

Morris  H.  Neal,  '08,  of  Babylon,  New  York 
passed  away  on  November  27, 1 974  at  the 
age  of  89. 

He  was  born  on  November  3, 1 885  in  Col- 
linsville,  Conn.,  and  graduated  from  wpi  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  in  1908.  For  many 
years  he  was  a  special  agent  for  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  of  Hartford. 

Farquhar  W.Smith,  '13,  of  San  Jose,  Califor- 
niadied  last  July. 

For  many  years  he  was  a  system  engineer 
and  engineering  consultant  at  Virginia  Elec- 
tric &  Power  in  Richmond.  Previously  he  was 
with  Blackstone  Valley  Gas  &  Electric  and 
New  England  Power  Co. 

Mr.  Smith  was  born  in  Northampton, 
Mass.,  on  Sept.  7, 1 888  and  graduated  with  a 
bsee  from  wpi  in  1 91 3.  He  was  a  member  of 
Lambda  Chi  Alpha  Fraternity;  aiee  (chairman 
of  Providence,  R.I.,  section  and  Richmond, 
Va.,  section);  Southeast  Electric  Exchange; 
Central  Virginia  Engineers  Club  and  the 
Wood  Preservers  Institute.  Mr.  Smith,  who 
served  as  an  officer  of  the  Richmond  Cere- 
bral Palsy  Society,  also  belonged  to  the 
Masonic  Order.  He  was  a  past  president  of 
the  Rhode  Island  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

Ralph  S.  Ward,  '18,  of  Lake  Wales,  Florida, 
died  on  February  6, 1 975  at  the  age  of  80. 
He  was  born  on  May  24, 1 894  in  Athol, 
Mass.  For  many  years,  until  his  retirement  in 
1 959,  he  was  a  foreman  at  the  Union  Twist 
Drill  Co.  in  Athol.  He  belonged  to  Sigma 
Alpha  Epsilon  Fraternity  when  he  was  study- 
ing at  wpi. 


28    April  1975     WPI  Journal 


Eric  S.  Ericsson,  '1 9,  a  former  director  of  the 
Advisory  Board  on  Vocational  Education  for 
New  York  State,  died  on  October  20, 1 974  in 
Mt.  Vernon,  New  York.  He  was  78  years  old. 

Mr.  Ericsson,  who  was  once  employed  by 
the  Domestic  Vacuum  Cleaner  Co.,  Reming- 
ton Co.,  and  Combustion  Engineering  Co., 
held  patents  on  a  hand  vacuum  cleaner  and 
angle-shafted  screw  driver.  He  was  a  super- 
visor with  the  Connecticut  State  Board  of 
Education  and  served  as  a  lecturer  and  pro- 
fessor at  various  universities.  He  wrote  sev- 
eral texts  on  such  topics  as  industrial  train- 
ing, egnineering  drawing,  and  technical 
mathematics. 

After  studying  at  wpi,  he  graduated  from 
New  York  University  with  a  bs  in  education, 
later  receiving  his  ma  and  MS  from  Columbia 
University.  He  belonged  to  Theta  Chi,  asme, 
the  New  York  City  and  Bronx  ymca  Educa- 
tional Boards,  Phi  Delta  Kappa,  and  the  Swe- 
den Society  of  New  York.  He  had  served  as 
president  of  the  Protestant  Educators'  Asso- 
ciation and  New  York  Schoolmasters'  Club; 
and  as  an  officer  of  the  John  Ericsson 
Society. 

Howard  M.  Estes,  '20,  of  North  Reading, 
Massachusetts  passed  away  on  December 
15, 1974  at  the  age  of  75. 

He  was  born  on  December  1 3, 1 899  in 
Windsor,  Mass.  After  studying  civil  engineer- 
ing at  wpi,  he  worked  until  1 942  for  the  Con- 
solidated Edison  System.  For  twenty-five 
years  he  was  a  structural  engineer  with 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  in 
Boston. 

Mr.  Estes  belonged  to  Sigma  Alpha  Epsi- 
lon  fraternity  and  the  Masonic  Order.  He  was 
a  World  War  I  army  veteran. 

Stanley  N.  McCaslin,  '21 ,  died  on  December 
25, 1974  in  Hopedale,  Massachusetts  follow- 
ing a  long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  August  7, 1 898  in  Flor- 
ence, Mass.  In  1 921  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  wpi.  For  many 
,    years  he  was  with  Riley  Stoker  Corp.,  Wor- 
cester, from  which  he  retired  in  1 968.  Pre- 
viously he  worked  for  Crompton  &  Knowles, 
Heald  Machine  Co.,  Rice  Barton  Corp., 
Draper  Corp.,  and  Leon  J.  Barrett  Co. 

Mr.  McCaslin  was  a  member  of  ato  and 
Skull. 

Albert  A.  Gammal,  Sr.,  '23,  passed  away  on 
December  3, 1 974  in  Worcester  at  the  age  of 
84. 

In  1 960  he  retired  from  the  former  Gammal 
Chemical  Co.  of  Worcester.  Earlier  he  had 
worked  for  the  General  Electric  Co.  in  Lynn, 
Mass.  He  was  born  on  January  1 5, 1 889  in 
"    Damascus,  Syria,  attended  wpi  ,  and  received 
his  bsee  from  m.i.t.  He  was  a  World  War  I 
veteran. 


Preston  W.  Hale,  '24,  of  Rochester,  New 
Hampshire  died  last  winter  at  the  age  of  72. 

For  forty  years  he  served  as  a  meter  engi- 
neer with  Consolidated  Edison  in  New  York 
City.  He  was  a  member  of  aiee,  iaei,  EEi.and 
aeic.  He  also  belonged  to  the  Shrine  in 
Washington,  D.C. 

Mr.  Hall  was  a  veteran  of  World  War  II  (Sig- 
nal Corps)  and  was  born  on  October  1 , 1 902 
in  Winchendon,  Mass. 

Raymon  T.  Holmes,  '24,  died  in  Worcester 
on  January  1, 1975. 

He  was  born  on  May  23, 1902  in  Worces- 
ter. After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  engi- 
neer from  wpi  in  1 924,  he  worked  for  New 
England  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  Later 
he  joined  M.D.  Holmes  &  Sons  Co.,  heating 
contractors,  in  Worcester.  During  the 
remainder  of  his  career  he  was  associated 
with  Worcester  Baking  Co.,  Norton  Com- 
pany, and  Heald  Machine  where  he  was  a 
plant  engineer. 

Mr.  Holmes  was  a  member  of  Phi  Sigma 
Kappa  fraternity,  the  Masonic  Order  and  the 
Worcester  Economic  Club. 

Eugene  M.  Hunter  '26,  recognized  in  the 
power  industry  as  a  leading  authority  on 
direct-current  transmission,  died  in  Florida 
last  August.  He  was  71 . 

In  1 967  Mr.  Hunter  retired  from  the  Gen- 
eral Electric  Company,  Schenectady,  follow- 
ing 42  years  of  service.  He  was  manager  of 
the  high-voltage  DC  transmission  engineer- 
ing section  of  the  Electric  Utility  Engineering 
Operation  and  participated  in  the  Pacific 
Northwest-Pacific  Southwest  inertie  which 
utilizes  high  voltage  direct-current  in  trans- 
mitting huge  blocks  of  electric  power  over 
long  distances. 

Active  in  work  on  international  standards 
he  represented  the  United  States  at  the  Con- 
ference International  des  Grands  Reseaux 
Electriques  in  Paris  and  the  International 
Electrotechnical  Commission  held  in  various 
cities  throughout  the  world. 

A  native  of  Portsmouth,  N.H.,  Mr.  Hunter 
graduated  as  an  electrical  engineer  from  wpi 
and  later  joined  ge.  In  1928  he  became 
involved  with  the  company's  central  station 
engineering  operation.  He  received  his  MS 
from  Union  College  in  1 931 . 

A  professional  engineer  and  author  of  over 
60  technical  papers,  he  was  also  a  member 
of  the  American  Standards  Institute,  National 
Electrical  Manufacturers  Association  and  a 
member  of  the  President's  Advisory  Council 
at  wpi. 

Cornelius  J.  Doyle,  '33,  of  Hartford,  Con- 
necticut, died  last  July. 

He  was  born  on  July  1 3, 1 91 0  in  Worces- 
ter. In  1 933  he  received  his  bsce  from  wpi. 
From  1 934  until  1 966  he  served  as  an  inter- 
nal revenue  agent  for  the  U.S.  Internal  Reve- 
nue Service  in  Worcester  and  Hartford. 


Robert  D.  Hunter,  '33,  passed  away  on 
December  1 1 , 1 974  in  Waterville,  Maine.  He 
was  63  years  old. 

A  Worcester  native,  he  graduated  from  wpi 
as  a  civil  engineer.  During  his  lifetime  he  was 
with  the  New  Hampshire  Highway  Dept.;  Lud- 
low (Mass.)  Mfg.  &  Sales  Co.,  which  sent  him 
to  projects  in  Delaware  and  India;  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineer  Corp,  with  which  he  helped  to 
build  airfields  in  Assam  and  China  during 
World  War  II;  and  Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 
He  also  worked  for  Albert  Kahn  Associates  of 
Detroit,  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Public  Roads  in 
Concord,  N.H.  and  Augusta,  Maine.  Since 
1 957  he  was  a  division  engineer  of  the  Fed- 
eral Highway  Administration  in  Augusta. 

During  the  second  world  war  he  won  deco- 
rations from  the  American  and  Nationalist 
Chinese  governments  for  assistance  in  build- 
ing 64  airfields  in  the  China-Burma-India  the- 
ater. He  was  a  retired  colonel  in  the  U.S. 
Army,  a  registered  professional  engineer, 
and  also  served  on  the  Sidney,  Me.,  town 
planning  board  and  school  planning 
committee. 


Robert  C.  Peterson,  '33,  died  on  January  1 8, 
1 975  in  South  Yarmouth,  Massachusetts  at 
the  age  of  62. 

He  was  a  retired  president  of  Thompson 
Wire  Co.  of  Boston  and  a  former  plant  man- 
ager of  its  Worcester  branch,  now  Avco- 
Thompson  steel  division.  A  Worcester 
native,  he  graduated  from  wpi  with  a  bs  in 
mechanical  engineering  in  1 933.  He  was  a 
member  of  Alpha  Tau  Omega,  the  Wire  Asso- 
ciation, and  Worcester  Engineering  Society. 
He  served  on  the  ymca  Athletic  Club  board  of 
governers  and  was  a  former  chairman  of  the 
wpi  Alumni  Fund  Board. 

George  G.  Gleisberg,  '34,  died  suddenly  on 
December  14,1 974  at  his  home  in  West 
Lynn,  Massachusetts.  He  was  63. 

A  native  of  Clinton,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on 
October  1 2, 1 91 1 .  In  1 934  he  received  his  bs 
in  chemical  engineering  from  wpi.  He  had 
worked  for  the  Colonial  Press  Co.  and  Tup- 
per  Plastics  Co.,  of  Clinton;  the  A.S.  Camp- 
bell Co.  in  East  Boston;  and  for  30  years  for 
the  General  Electric  Co.,  Lynn,  where  he  was 
a  laboratory  technician  at  the  river  works 
plant. 

Mr.  Gleisberg  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Sacred  Heart  Holy  Name  Society  in  Lynn  and 
a  member  of  the  General  Electric  Thomson 
Quarter  Century  Club. 


WPI  Journal  /  April  1975/29 


Edward  J.  Abendschein.  '35,  died  on  Decem- 
ber 22, 1 974  in  Hanover,  Pennsylvania  at  the 
age  of  62. 

He  was  president  of  New  Way  Packaging 
Machinery,  Inc.,  and  served  on  the  boards  of 
Hanover  General  Hospital,  the  Farmers  Bank 
and  Trust  Co.,  and  the  Methodist  Home  for 
the  Aged.  Also,  he  was  a  past  president  of  the 
Hanover  Lions  Club,  the  Chamber  of  Com- 
merce, the  Industrial  Management  Group 
and  the  United  Fund. 

Mr.  Abendschein  was  born  on  November 
8,1912  in  Niagara  Falls,  N.Y.  In  1 935  he  grad- 
uated as  a  mechanical  engineer  from  wpi 
and  joined  Chisholm-Ryder  in  Niagara  Falls. 
He  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta 
Pi  and  had  served  as  secretary  of  the  West- 
ern New  York  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 

Murray  W.  Edinburg,  '36,  formerly  of  Worces- 
ter, died  in  Bryn  Mawr,  Pennsylvania  on 
December  11,1 974.  He  was  59. 

Mr.  Edinburg  invented  and  patented  the 
first  portable  direct-ink-reading  electro  car- 
diograph machine.  He  was  responsible  for 
the  development  of  instrument  flight  trainers 
used  by  Navy  fighter  pilots  in  World  War  II. 
He  also  researched  and  helped  to  develop 
the  electroencephalograph  and  took  part  in 
the  brain  wave  research  on  Dr.  Albert 
Einstein. 

During  World  War  II  he  did  electromedical 
research  at  Clark  University.  He  developed 
devices  for  measuring  fatigue,  coordination 
and  efficiency  among  personnel  in  the 
armed  forces.  While  at  McGill  University, 
Montreal,  Canada,  he  worked  on  a  device 
which  diagnosed  muscular  ailments, 
repaired  muscle  damage,  and  detected 
muscle  disease,  the  research  being  done  in 
conjunction  with  a  U.S.  government  project. 

Mr.  Edinburg  was  born  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.  on  June  29, 1915.  Later  he  studied  at 
wpi.  He  was  a  member  of  the  board  of  direc- 
tors of  Beth  Israel  Congregation  and  was 
chairman  of  the  building  fund  of  Beth  Israel. 

John  V.  Delany,  '38,  died  on  March  8, 1 975  in 
Worcester.  He  was  61 . 

For  28  years  he  was  with  the  Lodding  Engi- 
neering Corp.,  Auburn,  Mass.,  where  he  was 
marketing  products  manager,  a  position  he 
had  held  since  his  promotion  in  January.  Ear- 
lier he  was  manager  of  the  internal  sales 
department. 

Mr.  Delany  was  born  on  January  27, 1 91 4 
in  Newburgh,  N.Y.  In  1 938  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  wpi.  He  was  a 
member  and  former  president  of  the  South 
Worcester  Kiwanis  Club  and  also  belonged 
to  the  Worcester  Power  Squadron,  and 
Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity. 


Edward  A.  Stega,  '42,  died  on  February  1 6, 
1 975  in  De  Land,  Florida.  He  was  56. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on  May 
8, 1 91 8  and  graduated  with  a  bsee  from  wpi 
in  1 942.  He  retired  last  year  as  an  electronics 
engineer  for  the  Army  Satellite  Command 
Agency  at  Ft.  Monmouth,  N.J.  after  33  years 
of  service.  He  belonged  to  the  American 
Association  of  Retired  Persons. 

Walter  E.  Kaskan,  '43,  died  on  January  23, 
1975  in  Binghamton,  New  York.  He  was  53. 

A  native  of  Worcester,  he  was  born  on 
March  2, 1 921  and  graduated  as  a  chemist 
from  wpi  in  1 943.  In  1 949  he  received  his 
PHD  from  the  University  of  Rochester.  From 
1 950  until  1 965  he  was  with  General  Electric 
Co.  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  where  he  was  a 
research  associate.  At  the  time  of  his  death 
he  was  a  professor  of  chemistry  at  the  State 
University  of  New  York  at  Binghamton. 

Dr.  Kaskan  was  a  member  of  Sigma  Xi,  Tau 
Beta  Pi,  acs,  the  American  Physical  Society, 
and  the  Combustion  Institute. 

Owen  Ott,  '51 ,  of  Brookfield  Center,  Con- 
necticut, passed  away  on  May  23, 1 974  at  the 
age  of  43. 

He  was  born  in  New  York  City  on  July  23, 
1 930.  After  graduating  as  a  physicist  from 
wpi,  he  joined  Electro-Mechanical 
Research,  Inc.,  in  Ridgefield,  Conn.,  asa 
research  engineer.  Later  he  was  with  Boeing 
Airplane  Co.,  Data  Control  Systems,  Inc., 
and  Data  Interface,  Inc.,  Brookfield  Center 
where  he  served  as  president. 

Mr.  Ott,  who  belonged  to  Sigma  Phi  Epsi- 
lon  Fraternity  and  IRI,  was  a  member  of  the 
Brookfield  Zoning  Board  of  Appeals. 

Earle  R.  Weaver,  '65,  died  at  his  home  in 
Lunenburg,  Massachusetts  on  December 
22, 1974.  He  was  36. 

He  was  born  on  October  17,1 938  in  Ash- 
land, Me.  In  1 965  he  received  his  msme  from 
wpi.  He  joined  the  General  Electric  Co.  fol- 
lowing graduation  and  at  the  time  of  his 
death  he  was  a  senior  mechanical  engineer 
forGE  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Mr.  Weaver  was  a  member  of  asme  and  a 
registered  engineer  in  Maine  and 
Massachusetts. 

Marcel  R.  Benjamin,  sim  '67,  died  on  Janu- 
ary 21  ,  1 975  in  Southbridge,  Massachusetts. 

He  was  born  on  December  29, 1 923  in 
North  Grosvenordale,  Conn.  In  1 954  he 
received  his  ab  from  Clark  University.  For 
many  years  he  was  associated  with  Ameri- 
can Optical  Co.  in  Southbridge,  where  he 
had  served  as  plant  personnel  administrator, 
college  relations  manager,  and  manager  of 
management  training  and  development. 

Mr.  Benjamin  belonged  to  the  Elks  and 
worked  for  the  Bishop's  Fund. 


30    April  1975     WPI  Journal 


Nominees  for  Alumni  Trustee  state  their  positions 


Thomas  B.  Graham,  '38 

The  best  substantive  contribu- 
tions which  trustees  make,  other 
than  their  presence  on  the 
Board,  is  via  their  committee 
activity.  The  Board's  needs  are 
for  talent  of  any  variety,  prefera- 
bly those  who  represent  some 
diversification  of  professional 
effort  by  alumni,  away  from 
strictly  engineering  professions. 

Tech's  needs  which  I  perceive 
for  the  next  ten  years  are  to  con- 
vert The  Plan  to  a  credible  and 
viable  basis  for  its  program.  It 
will  take  considerable  effort  to 
sustain  the  momentum  which 
will  make  this  come  true. 

The  other  need  which  I  can 
see,  most  emphatically,  is 
money.  This  is  not  in  the  trite 
terms  of  keeping  up  with  the 
inflationary  spiral,  but  the  col- 
lege needs  money  in  quantity 
from  untapped  sources,  prefera- 
bly alumni,  so  that  the  rate  of  tui- 
tion rise  can  not  only  be  slowed, 
but  possibly  even  reversed.  We 
are  currently  on  a  course  such 
that  within  five  years,  there  will 
not  be  a  student  on  the  campus 
capable  of  paying  the  full  tuition 
bill. 

To  repeat  a  formula  I  have 
used  before:  We  have  ten  thou- 
sand plus  alumni;  if  we  could  get 
one  hundred  dollars  annually 
per  head  from  the  alumni,  we 
would  have  a  million  dollars  per 
year  available  to  help  students 
meet  the  costs  of  coming  to  the 
campus. 


CarlW.Lewin,^ 

I  have  loved  selling,  and  in 
recent  years,  the  teaching  of  sell- 
ing. There  are  those  who  say 
that  salesmen  are  born,  not 
taught.  True  or  not,  training 
makes  the  salesman  more  effec- 
tive and  makes  him  productive 
sooner  than  if  he  is  left  to  his 
own  devices. 

The  above  is  by  way  of  a  pref- 
ace to  expressing  a  value  judge- 
ment about  the  educational  pro- 
gram at  Worcester  Tech.  Market 
research  would  show  the  need 
for  precisely  the  kind  of  pro- 
gram being  offered.  Worcester 
has  created  a  product  to  fill  a 
need.  That  product  is  an 
environment  for  teaching  and 
learning  that  has  as  its  goal  the 
exposure  of  all  possible  elements 
to  the  awareness  of  those  stu- 
dents eager  to  develop  the  abil- 
ity to  make  the  best  possible 
judgements  in  our  complex 
society. 

I  want  to  say  something  about 
the  importance  of  privately  fun- 
ded schools.  It  seems  to  me  that 
our  system  provides  the  greatest 
margin  of  advantages  to  the 
most  people,  and  some  of  these 
advantages  certainly  flow  from 
the  dual  system  of  private  and 
public  educational  institutions 
that  we  maintain  in  this  country. 
As  a  supporter  of  the  private 
enterprise  system,  I  believe  our 
privately  funded  schools  need  to 
flourish  along  with  tax-sup- 
ported schools,  important  as  the 
latter  are  acknowledged  to  be. 

As  a  trustee,  I  would  hope  to 
be  able  to  contribute  to  WPI 
enthusiastic  support,  certainly. 
But,  more  than  that,  as  a  "Sales- 
man", I  think  I  could  sell  some 
"prospects"  in  my  "territory"  on 
WPI.  I  am  using  these  terms 
metaphorically  to  connote 
strengthening  the  awareness  of 
WPI's  program  among  a  num- 
ber of  constituencies  —  prospec- 
tive students  and  employers, 
being  two  primary  examples.  In 
addition  I  offer  my  knowledge 
as  a  builder,  my  experience  as  an 
elected  school  board  member, 
and  my  perspective  gained  from 
ten  years  of  international  sales 
effort  for  an  engineering  and 
construction  firm. 


Arthur  Smith,  '33 

Survival  of  privately  endowed 
colleges  is  dependent  on  offer- 
ing an  undergraduate  education 
that  is  superior  in  quality  and 
unique  in  its  preparation  of  the 
student  for  later  life.  Our  alma 
mater,  with  the  WPI  Plan,  is  in  a 
favorable  position  to  attract  stu- 
dents. At  Tech,  they  can  not  only 
plan  their  own  approach  to  their 
studies,  but  more  importantly, 
perform  independently  on  the 
achievement  of  some  service  or 
actual  project,  while  being 
guided  and  monitored  by  their 
faculty. 

I  think  the  greater  need  of 
higher  education  is  to  find  ways 
of  developing  in  students  the 
ability  to  organize  and  imple- 
ment programs  on  their  own. 
But,  at  the  same  time,  students 
must  acquire  the  fundamental 
knowledge  needed  to  know  how 
to  proceed  to  solve  problems  and 
the  ability  to  express  themselves 
in  both  the  written  and  oral 
forms  of  their  thoughts  and 
accomplishments. 

The  most  encouraging  aspect 
of  activities  at  WPI  in  recent 
years  is  that  the  school  has 
retained  the  flexibility  to  adjust 
to  changing  needs.  This  ability 
can  permit  our  institution  to  sur- 
vive by  outperforming  the  larger 
and  publicly  controlled  state 
institutions  which  of  necessity 
become  rigid  and  devoid  of 
innovation.  I  do  not  believe  a 
privately  endowed  school  can 
hope  to  increase  its  endowment 
rapidly  enough  to  offset  cost 
increases  and  therefore  inevita- 
bly falls  prey  to  rising  tuitions. 
It  is  necessary  for  such  a  school 
to  develop  a  better  product  in 
order  to  survive  the  difficult 
days  ahead. 


Robert  F.  Stewart,  '50 

WPI  has  an  excellent  and 
unique  program  providing  a 
challenge  to  its  students.  The 
primary  need  of  the  college  at 
this  time,  however,  as  for  all 
privately  endowed  schools,  is 
expanding  the  base  for  financial 
support.  With  corporate  support 
possibly  approaching  its  limits 
and  inflation  on  the  rise,  there  is 
an  urgent  need  for  increasing 
WPI  alumni  support.  There 
may  be  more  opportunity  to 
increase  financial  support 
through  alumni  activities  and 
financially  able  student  pros- 
pects than  through  corporate 
support  expansion. 

Growth,  both  in  terms  of  par- 
ticipants and  dollars,  is  required 
of  the  Alumni  Fund.  Our 
alumni,  therefore,  must  help  sell 
WPI  through  a  better  knowl- 
edge and  understanding  of  the 
WPI  Plan. 

There  is  also  a  vital  need  for 
an  improved  interface  between 
alumni  and  secondary  schools. 
By  promoting  WPI's  excellent 
programs  and  opportunities  to 
potential  students,  enrollment 
and  quality  of  students  will  be 
stimulated. 

The  basic  strategy  which  I 
would  propose  to  achieve  the 
above  goals  would  be: 

1 .  To  enlist  the  aid  of  Tech  stu- 
dents in  identifying  and  con- 
tacting top  seniors  in  their 
home  schools, 

2.  To  transmit  to  campus  vis- 
itors the  good  morale,  pride 
and  enthusiasm  existing 
among  its  students, 

3.  To  continually  strive  to 
strengthen  and  promote  the 
WPI  Plan  so  our  alumni  are 
able  to  "sell"  good  candi- 
dates on  selecting  WPI,  and 

4.  Determine  whether  alumni 
could  be  helpful  with  their 
local  high  school  counselors 
in  the  motivation  and  selec- 
tion of  top  quality  students. 


WPIJournal  I  April  1975/31 


cy^vT*%^ 


t* 


- 


What's  happening  at  WPI? 


Athletics 

(*designates  home  games) 

Baseball 

May     2  Assumption,  3:30* 

3  Coast  Guard,  1:00* 

5  Suffolk,  3: 30* 
10  m.i.t.,3:30* 

16  Northeastern,  3:30* 

17  Amherst,  1:00 

Track 

W  iv     3  Middlebury,  1:00 

6  Trinity,  3:30* 

9- 1 0  Easterns,  at  Bowdoin 

16  New  Englands,  atUMass 


Golf 

May     8     Springfield,  1:30 
13     a.i.c,  Nichols,  1:30 

Tennis 

May     3  r.p.i.,  2:00 

7  Lowell  Tech,  2:00* 

15  a.i.c,  2:00 

WPI  Colloquium 

May     7     "The  Hydrogen  Fuel  Economy,"  Dr.  Lawrence 

W.Jones  of  the  University  of  Michigan,  Olin  107,4:30 

Notable  occasions 

May   31     Commencement,  2:00  pm 

Harrington  Auditorium 
June  5-8     Reunion 


32    <\pnl1975     WPIJournal 


-f-^L  *i 


5** 


^^^ 


,f 


1&&k* 


-^..u^^^. 


Compare  TI's  NEW  SR-51.... 

•Mean,  variance  and  standard  deviation. 
•Automatic  linear  regression.  •  20  programmed 
conversions.  •Percent  and  percent  difference. 
•Random  number  generator. 
•3  accessible  memories.  And 
much  more  for  only  $^^ /1 95 


FUNCTION 

SR-51 

HP-45 

Log.  In 

yes 

yes 

Trig  (sin,  cos.  tan.  Inv) 

yes 

yes 

Hyperbolic  (sinh,  cosh,  tanh,  Inv) 

yes 

no 

Degree-radian  conversion 

yes 

yes 

Deg/rad  mode  selection 

yes 

yes 

Decimal  degrees -deg-min-sec 

yes 

yes 

Polar-rectangular  conversion 

yes 

yes 

yx 

yes 

yes 

ex 

yes 

yes 

10x 

yes 

yes 

X2 

yes 

yes 

Vx 

yes 

yes 

\*y 

yes 

no 

1/x 

yes 

yes 

X1 

yes 

yes 

Exchange  x  with  y 

yes 

yes 

Metric  conversion  constants 

13 

3 

%and  A°o 

yes 

yes 

Mean  and  standard  deviation 

yes 

yes 

Linear  regression 

yes 

no 

Trend  line  analysis 

yes 

no 

Slope  and  intercept 

yes 

no 

Store  and  recall 

yes 

yes 

1  to  memory 

yes 

yes 

Product  to  memory 

yes 

yes 

Random  number  generator 

yes 

no 

Automatic  permutation 

yes 

no 

Preprogrammed  conversions 

20 

7 

Digits  accuracy 

13 

10 

V  Algebraic  notation  (sum  of  products) 

yes 

no 

k\    Memory  (other  than  stack) 

3 

9 

^\  Fixed  decimal  option 

yes 

yes 

Keys 
\.    Second  function  key 

40 

35 

^ 

yes 

yes 

1 

\    Constant  mode  operation 

yes 

mi 

More    math 
power  for  the 
money.    More 
than  log  and  trip 
and    hyperbolics 
and  functions  of  x 
.   .   .   the    SR-51    has 
these    and    also    has 
statistical    functions  . .  . 
like   mean,   variance  am 
standard  deviation,  ran 
dom    numbers,    factorials. 
permutations,  slope  and  inter- 
cept,   and    trend    line   analysis 
Check  the  chart  above  —compare 
it.   With    the   HP-45  or   any   other 
quality  calculator.  Then  try  it.  We're 
sure  you'll  agree  that  the  SR-51  offers 
extraordinary  value. 

See  the  NEW  SR-51 
at  your  campus  book 
store  or  local  quality 
department  store 


instruments  Incorporated 
UVDO  North  Cer it 


Texas  Instruments 


NCORPORA I h V 


HWlf.H 


■  AUGUST  1975 

HIPITO 


auumamaaiaiast 


mmm 


"Our  Republic  was  never  created  to  be  a  leveler 
of  man.  It  was  created  to  be  a  lifter,  a  developer  of 
men. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  let  the  gifted,  the 
energetic,  and  the  creative  rise  to  new  heights  of 
achievement,  and  to  let  each  man  find  his  own  level 
on  the  stairway  of  existence. 

"Our  Republic  was  created  to  encourage  men  to 
meet  their  personal  responsibilities  and  to  shirk  no 
public  duties.  That  is  why  our  people  have  always 
been  concerned  about  the  honest  needs  of  their 
fellow  citizens,  the  chief  of  these  needs  being  liberty, 
justice,  and  opportunity. 

"Our  Republic  demands  that  the  nation  be  governed 
by  the  capable,  the  honorable,  the  far-seeing,  the  clear- 
seeing,  and  not  by  mediocre  men.  In  the  beginning 
it  was  so.  May  it  be  so  again. 

"Our  Republic  demands  more  from  men  than 
any  other  system  in  the  realm  of  self-discipline, 
dependability,  cooperativeness,  industry,  thrift,  and 
honor.  For  anyone  to  foster  class  consciousness,  class 
conflict,  misrepresentation,  covetousness,  violence, 
theft,  and  an  open  defiance  of  established  law— even 
when  done  "legally"— is  to  breed  anarchy  and  tyranny. 

"Our  Republic  was  not  designed  to  interfere  with 
the  inalienable  right  of  its  people  to  be  masters  of 
their  own  destinies. 

"Our  Republic  was  established  to  make  men  free!" 

We  welcome  this  200th  anniversary  as  we  welcome  every  important 
milestone  in  our  lives  ...  a  significant  occasion  for  celebration,  reflection 
and  rededication . 


WYMAN  -  GORDON 


mp[pM]m 


Vol.  78,  No.  7 


August  1975 


3  On  the  Hill 

4  Feedback 

6  Sports 

7  Alumni  Association 

8  Sports 

12     There  was  another  young  lady  from  Becker 

Alumni  respond  to  the  Limerick  challenge 

14     Fire  up  above! 

W.  Robert  Powers,  '37  tells  what  happened  in  the  World 
Trade  Center  fire  —  and  why,  and  in  general  what  the  fire 
dangers  are  in  modern  high-rise  buildings. 

22  Reunion  1975 

28  Your  Class  and  Others 

30  Completed  Careers 

40  Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  of  Missing  Persons 


Editor:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Alumni  Information  Editor:  Ruth  A.  Trask 

Publications  Committee:  Walter  B.  Dennen, 
Jr.,  '51,  chairman;  Donald  F.  Berth,  '57; 
Leonard  Brzozowski,  '74;  Robert  C.  Gosling, 
'68;  Enfried  T.  Larson,  '22;  Roger  N.  Perry, 
Jr.,  '45;  Rev  Edward  I.  Swanson,  '45 

Design:  H.  Russell  Kay 

Typography  and  Printing: 
The  House  of  Offset, 
Somerville,  Massachusetts 


Address  all  correspondence  regarding 
editorial  content  or  advertising  to  the  Editor, 
WPI  JOURNAL,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 
(phone  617-753-1411). 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  for  the 
Alumni  Association  by  Worcester  Polytechnic 
Institute.  Copyright©  1975  by  Worcester 
Polytechnic  Institute;  all  rights  reserved. 

The  WPI  JOURNAL  is  published  six  times  a 
year  in  August,  September,  October,  Decem- 
ber, February,  and  April.  Second  Class 
postage  paid  at  Worcester,  Massachusetts. 
Postmaster-  Please  send  Form  3579  to  Alum- 
ni Association,  Worcester  Polytechnic  In- 
stitute, Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609. 


WPI  ALUMNI  ASSOCIATION 

President:  F.S.  Harvey,  '37 

Vice  President:  W.A.  Julian,  '49 
R.A.  Davis,  '53 

Secretary-Treasurer:  S.J.  Hebert,  '66 
Past  President:  W.J.  Bank,  '46 

Executive  Committee  Members-at-large:  B.  E. 
Hosmer,  '61;  L.  Polizzotto  70;  J. A.  Palley, 
'46;  J.  L.  Brown,  '46 

Fund  Board:  W.J.  Charow,  '49,  chairman; 
L.H.  White,  '41;  G.A.  Anderson,  '51;  H.I. 
Nelson,  '54;  P.H.  Horstmann,  '55;  D.J. 
Maguire,  '66 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  1 


i.  t.      ,        A 4- 


\%i  ***1 


wt. 


by  the  editor 

Time's  toll . . . 
Boynton  flagpole 

After  several  years  in  a  decrepit  and 
deteriorating  condition,  the  once-white 
flagpole  atop  Boynton  Hall  has  been 
dismantled  and  removed.  In  recent  years 
the  flagpole  has  not  been  used,  and  its 
rusty  appearance  has  been  something  of 
an  eyesore.  Although  Boynton  Hall' now 
looks  much  better  for  the  pole's  absence, 
those  of  us  who  remember  with  fond- 
ness Roger  Perry's  magnificent  photo- 
graph (at  left)  of  the  twin  towers  of 
Washburn  and  Boynton,  echoing  the 
college's  motto  "Lehr  and  Kunst,"  will 
mourn,  if  only  briefly,  the  flagpole's 
passing. 


Commencement: 
Economist  asks,  in  200  years, 
poverty  or  potential? 

It  was  a  hot  and  muggy  May  31,  with 
rain  threatening  all  morning  and  after- 
noon, but  the  college's  107th  Commence- 
ment Exercises  came  off  on  schedule, 
and  the  rain  held  off  until  everyone  had 
left. 

Rain  was  only  one  of  the  day's  prob- 
lems, though.  The  commencement 
speaker  was  Dr.  Kenneth  E.  Boulding, 
an  economist  at  the  University  of  Colo- 
rado's Institute  of  Behavioral  Science. 
The  timbre  of  Dr.  Boulding's  voice  evi- 
dently coincided  with  one  of  Harrington 
Auditorium's  resonant  frequencies,  and 
as  a  result  Dr.  Boulding's  address  was 
largely  unintelligible  to  many  in  the 
audience.  That  was  unfortunate,  because 
he  had  a  lot  to  say. 


"Basically,"  said  Dr.  Boulding,  "the 
Bicentennial  is  a  good  excuse  to  look 
forward  200  years  as  we  are  now  look- 
ing backward.  The  men  of  1776  had  an 
implicit  200-year  vision,  of  filling  up  a 
great  continent,  empty  by  the  standards 
of  European  technology,  and  a  vision 
also  of  a  new  moral  and  political  order. 
What  200-year  vision  can  we  have  now, 
looking  forward  to  2175? 

"1.  It  must  be  a  world  vision.  The 
impact  of  science-based  technology, 
which  was  latent  in  1776  and  exploded 
after  1860,  is  so  large,  so  worldwide, 
and  so  destructive  to  traditional  non- 
scientific  societies  which  cannot  adapt, 
that  we  are  faced  with  the  choice  of  one 
world  or  none. 

"2.  Our  vision  should  aim  for  a  sus- 
tainable high-level  technology.  We  must 
become  independent  of  the  exhaustible 
stocks  of  oil,  gas,  and  coal,  and  the  ex- 
haustible mines  of  materials.  The  only 
known  sustainable  technologies  are  low- 
level  and  poor,  relying  on  the  inefficient 
use  of  solar  energy  through  agriculture 
and  muscle  power.  A  sustainable  high- 
level  technology  must  ultimately  depend 
on  the  efficient  use  of  solar  energy 
applied  to  the  recycling  of  materials. 
This  is  some  way  off;  it  may  be  post- 
poned by  developing  nuclear  fusion, 
though  this  is  uncertain. 

"3.  We  should  aim  for  political  in- 
stitutions which  eliminate  war,  protect 
cultural  variety  and  individual  liberty, 
and  create  a  framework  within  which 
population  is  held  constant  and  every 
child  born  has  a  fair  chance  of  achieving 
its  potential  for  a  good  life.  This  may 
not  mean  "world  government"  in  the 
conventional  sense,  which  could  easily 
slip  into  world  tyranny.  It  might  mean  a 
world  of  500  states  of  great  variety, 
held  together  in  a  framework  of  world 
political  institutions  of  many  kinds.  We 
cannot  predict  the  political  inventions 
that  may  yet  be  made,  but  political  in- 
ventiveness is  essential,  as  it  was  in 
1776. 

"4.  Our  vision  should  aim  for  eco- 
nomic institutions  that  provide  for 
variety,  for  a  measure  of  individual 
choice,  for  inventiveness  and  respon- 
siveness to  demand,  yet  avoid  inflation 
and  unemployment,  involuntary  poverty 
or  corrupting  wealth,  and  preserve  the 
sustainability  of  the  system.  Again,  we 
cannot  now  predict  what  mix  of  ex- 
change and  grants,  private  property  and 
public  organization,  will  achieve  this 


end.  Neither  the  unrestrained  market 
capitalism  of  the  19th  century  nor  the 
tyrannical  socialism  of  the  20th  will  do. 
Economic  inventiveness  is  essential. 

"5.  We  should  aim  for  religious  and 
moral  institutions  which  meet  the  deep 
needs  of  human  beings  for  larger 
identity,  which  foster  compassion  and  a 
sense  of  community  with  the  whole 
human  race  —  past,  present,  and  future 
—  and  which  give  hope  of  a  meaning 
and  significance  to  life  which  transcends 
the  here  and  now.  We  must  expect  con- 
tinuing revelation  and  the  continuing 
renewal  of  potential.  We  must  be  sensi- 
tive both  to  moral  criticism  and  to  a 
criticism  of  morals,  so  that  we  do  not 
fall  into  personal  wrongdoing  or  into  an 
insensitive  and  unrealistic  moralism." 

Dr.  Boulding  concluded  that  "the  task 
is  enormous.  But  we  do  stand  in  a 
dawn,  however  faint,  of  a  better  world 
than  we  have  ever  seen.  It  is  a  very 
stormy  dawn.  Catastrophes,  perhaps 
greater  than  the  human  race  has  ever 
known,  may  lie  between  us  and  the 
Great  Dawn.  Famines,  wars,  environ- 
mental disasters  are  all  too  likely  to  lie 
in  our  path,  and  the  probability  that 
they  will  be  fatal  is  not  zero.  It  may  be 
that  humanity  will  fall  back  into  uni- 
versal, stable,  and  irretrievable  poverty, 
or  even  that  the  whole  evolutionary 
experiment  in  this  part  of  the  universe 
will  fail. 

"But  there  is  a  chance,  large  enough 
to  bet  our  lives  on,  that  we  will  make  it 
across  the  tightrope  of  the  next  200 
years  to  that  dream  of  the  full  realiza- 
tion of  human  potential  which  has 
always  haunted  the  human 
imagination." 


Journal  cover  wins  college 
magazine  award 

The  cover  of  last  August's  WPI  Journal, 
a  pen-and-ink  drawing  of  a 
technological  sphinx  by  Steve  Tozier, 
'74,  received  an  award  of  merit  in  the 
1975  publications  competition  sponsored 
by  the  Council  for  the  Advancement 
and  Support  of  Education,  a  new 
organization  formed  in  1974  by  the 
merger  of  the  American  Alumni  Council 
and  the  American  College  Public 
Relations  Association. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  19/5  I  3 


Letters  policy  adopted 

At  its  spring  meeting,  on  May  10,  the 
Alumni  Council  approved  the  following 
statement  of  Journal  policy  regarding 
the  publication  of  letters  to  the  editor. 
The  statement  was  drawn  up  by  the 
Alumni  Publications  Committee  in 
response  to  inquires  regarding  the 
publication  —  and  non-publication  — 
of  letters. 

ALUMNI  PUBLICATIONS 

POLICY  ON  LETTERS  TO  THE  EDITOR 

The  WPI  Journal  is  interested  in  at- 
tracting letters  to  the  Editor  because  (1) 
the  Letters  to  the  Editor  column  should 
serve  as  a  forum  for  interchange  of 
alumni  views  on  alumni  or  WPI  mat- 
ters, (2)  letters  are  the  simplest,  most 
direct  means  of  communication  for 
alumni  and  (3)  letters  are  a  measure  of 
alumni  interest  in  both  the  Journal  and 
WPI. 

The  Journal  will  publish  letters  to  the 
Editor  within  the  following  limitations: 

( 1 )  Any  letter  that  deals  directly  and 
on  a  timely  basis  with  an  article,  or  the 
issues  presented  in  an  article,  published 
in  the  Journal. 

(2)  Any  letter  dealing  directly  and  on  a 
timely  basis  with  an  issue  of  general  or 
special  interest  to  the  alumni. 

(3)  Any  letter  dealing  directly  and  on  a 
timely  basis  with  any  concern,  action  or 
policy  of  or  relating  to  the  Alumni 
Association  or  WPI. 

(4)  Any  letter  dealing  directly  with 
social,  economic,  cultural,  political, 
historical  or  religious  issues  relating 
spec  if ic ally  to  Journal  articles  or  WPI 
activities. 


The  Editor  of  the  Journal,    under  the 
guidance  and  direction  of  the 
Publications  Committee,  will  exercise 
due  discretion  and  caution  in: 

(1)  Reviewing  all  letters  to  assure  con- 
formance to  reasonable  standards  in 
style,  language  and  presentation.  He 
shall  have  the  option  of  returning  the 
letter  to  the  author  for  changes  or 
clarification  but,  in  no  case,  shall  he  at- 
tempt to  impose  his  views  on  the 
author. 

(2)  Selecting  letters  that  are  quan- 
titatively and  qualitatively  represen- 
tative of  diverse  views  submitted  in 
response  to  a  specific  article  or  issue. 

(3)  Deleting  material  to  concentrate  a 
letter  on  a  single  topic  if  such  con- 
centration is  in  the  best  interests  of 
the  Journal  and  its  readers. 

(4)  Consulting  with  the  Alumni 
Secretary,  WPI  officials,  Alumni 
Publications  Committee  members  and 
others,  as  necessary,  to  resolve  special 
problems.  After  such  consultation,  the 
Editor  shall  have  the  right  to  decline  to 
publish  any  letter  deemed  inappropriate. 

Short  takes 

Editor:  I  endorse  John  Zorabedian's 
comments  re  the  purposes  of  the 
Journal.  The  Liverwurst  article  is  a  good 
example  of  the  WPI-relevant  infor- 
mation he  and  I  would  urge  you  concen- 
trate on.  Good  story. 

R.H.  McMahan,  '50 

Editor:  After  two  sessions  of  "refresher" 
studies  in  planning,  economics,  financ- 
ing, and  operations  of  water  supplies  — 
one  at  IBRD  Washington  and  the  other 
at  MIT  and  Harvard  —  I  appreciate 
more  than  ever  my  solid  basic  training 
in  civil  engineering  at  WPI. 

Prescott  A.  Stevens,  '48 

Editor:  I  generally  don't  read  the 
articles  unless  one  catches  my  attention. 
I  believe  that  the  dollars  spent  for  this 
magazine  could  be  better  spent  on  the 
academic  growth  of  WPI.  I  generally 
don't  send  $$  because  of  irrelevant 
dribble  (sic)  of  this  type. 
R.  Mandel.  '71 


Editor:  I  would  like  to  see  a  more  de- 
tailed coverage  of  the  WPI  Hockey 
Club.  Perhaps  your  active  interest 
would  bring  the  sport  out  of  the 
doldrums  of  being  a  "club"  and  into  one 
of  the  ECAC  competitive  divisions. 
Joseph  F.  Kieronski,  '67 

Editor:  The  new  format  is  great.  I  also 
believe  that  "Completed  Careers"  is  very 
well  placed  at  the  END! 

W.F.  Rear  don,  '32 

Schenectady,  N.Y. 

Mysterious  numbers 

Editor:  I  am  always  curious  about  codes 
and  computers.  Would  you  tell  us  what 
lies  coded  in  the  numbers  above  our 
name  (on  the  mailing  label)? 
000559301 
Fred  McGowan,  '29 
Guilford,  Conn. 

(Would  I  could  tell  you  of  the  secret 
information  revealed  about  you  in  that 
nine-digit  number,  Mr.  McGowan.  The 
unvarnished  truth,  however,  is  that  it's 
merely  an  identification  number  which 
allows  the  computer  to  find  your  name 
and  address  record  as  well  as  other  in- 
formation about  what  fraternity  you 
were  in  at  WPI,  and  so  forth.  The  direc- 
tor of  alumni  records  and  services 
suggests  that  you  not  try  to  memorize 
your  number,  because  the  whole 
computer  file  system  is  being  changed 
and  you'll  soon  have  a  new  ID  number 
—  possibly  with  this  issue  of  the 
journal.  But  in  any  case,  the  number 
alone  doesn't  mean  much.  — Ed.) 

Change  at  WPI  — 

two  responses  to  Marshall 

Kaplan's  charges 

two  responses  to  Marshall  Kaplan's 

charges 

Editor:  I  have  just  finished  reading, 

with  much  interest,  a  letter  by  Marshall 

Kaplan  in  the  April  1975  issue  of  the 

WPI  Journal,  and  it  left  a  bad  taste,  one 

to  which  I  must  respond. 

As  one  of  the  first  of  three  graduates 
under  the  WPI  Plan,  in  1972,  my  reac- 
tion is  somewhat  biased.  However,  I 
shall  endeavor  to  be  as  objective  as  pos- 
sible in  my  remarks. 

It  has  been  my  experience  that  the 
single  most  important  aspect  of  my  ed- 
ucation at  WPI  has  not  been  the  body 
of  knowledge  with  which  I  left,  that 
being  a  very  narrow  field  of  study 


4  I  August  1976      WPI  Journal 


known  as  Urban  Planning,  but  a  basic 
understanding  of  the  various  aspects  of 
the  learning  experience  and  the  ability 
to  adapt  to  many  different  social  and 
economic  environments.  This  ability  is 
embodied  in  the  WPI  Plan,  and  it  is 
through  the  WPI  Plan  that  I  gained  it. 

Although  I  am  unable  to  practice  the 
profession  of  Urban  Planning,  because  I 
choose  to  live  in  rural  New  Hampshire, 
far  away  from  the  nearest  city  or  large 
town,  thanks  to  a  broader  educational 
experience  than  those  who  passed  before 
me  at  WPI,  I  am  able  to  make  a  com- 
fortable living  at  times.  My  education  is 
not  complete,  in  that  I  plan  on  getting 
an  MBA  within  the  next  year,  but  at 
this  point  I  can  say  that  I  am  entirely 
happy  with  the  education  I  received  at 
WPI. 

I  would  suppose  that  you,  Mr.  Kap- 
lan, would  consider  me  a  subversive 
liberal,  as  perhaps  I  was  while  attending 
WPI,  in  that  I  worked  for  the  creation 
of  the  WPI  Plan.  (I  subverted  the  status 
quo  while  seeking  a  more  humane  en- 
vironment from  which  to  learn  engineer- 
ing, or  anything  else  taught  at  WPI.) 
However,  let  me  assure  you  that  I  still 
believe  in  the  free-enterprise  system, 
democracy,  God,  motherhood,  and 
apple  pie,  as  well  as  the  necessity  for 
engineers  to  obtain  the  very  best  edu- 
cation in  their  field  of  endeavor.  There 
was  something  missing  at  WPI  before 
the  Plan.  Call  it  social  awareness  or 
whatever,  but  you  still  missed  it,  Mr. 
Kaplan,  and  your  letter  aptly  points  out 
how  badly  it  was  needed  when  you 
attended  WPI. 

I  would  suggest,  Mr.  Kaplan,  that 
you  and  everyone  else  stop  using  such 
derogatory  jargon  as  "subversive  liber- 
als," because  that  only  tends  to  alienate 
people  into  factions,  and  when  that 
happens  nothing  is  accomplished. 

Neil  C.  Herring,  '72 

Haverhill,  N.H.. 


Editor:  If  for  some  reason  you  should 
see  fit  not  to  print  this  letter,  I  would 
appreciate  your  forwarding  it  to 
Marshall;  we  spent  two  good  years 
together  as  fraternity  brothers. 

Dear  Marshall, 

I  was  dismayed  but  not  surprised  to 
read  your  letter  in  the  April  issue  of  the 
Journal.  I  have  found  the  thoughts  you 
expressed  common  among  other  alumni 
who  attended  prior  to  the  institution  of 
the  WPI  Plan,  as  we  did.  It  seems  that 
in  many  cases  two  general  ideas  are  usu- 
ally expressed:  (1)  that  an  alumnus  can 
barely  recognize  the  old  place  on  return- 
ing, and  (2)  that  the  academic  excellence 
is  being  compromised. 

To  the  first  point,  I  must  reply  that 
the  only  constant  is  change,  a  worn 
cliche  but  apt.  Considering  the  rate  of 
change  in  this  world  it  would  be  a  sad 
case  to  return  to  Tech,  say  ten  years 
after  graduation,  to  find  only  minor 
changes  in  lectures  to  keep  up  with  the 
pace.  As  a  certified  teacher,  I  urge  you 
to  investigate  the  changes  that  education 
at  all  age  levels,  both  public  and  private, 
has  undergone  since  your  last  contact 
with  formal  schooling;  I  trust  you  will 
be  amazed.  These  "untested  systems" 
are,  already,  bearing  fruit  to  those 
whose  motives  are  sincere.  The  educa- 
tional literature  is  proof  far  beyond  any- 
thing I  could  present.  Or  better  yet 
don't  just  visit  but  involve  yourself  in 
one  of  the  alternative  educational 
endeavors  in  your  area.  I  think  you 
might  have  second  thoughts  about  what 
is  really  "time  tested". 

The  second  point  elicits  a  response 
that  is  more  personal  and  much  more 
difficult  to  get  on  paper.  I  believe  the 
academic  excellence  of  WPI  is  something 
that  we,  as  students,  built  into  a  myth.  I 
remember  how  tough  those  courses  were 
and  how  damn  many  of  them  there 
were,  it  seemed  a  never-ending  stream. 
After  speaking  with  other  engineering 
graduates  from  other  places  in  New 
England  and  around  the  country  in 
general,  I  have  come  to  realize  that  the 
requirements  and  quality  of  education  at 
Tech  were  totally  in  line  with  other 
good  engineering  schools,  and  I  found  it 
increasingly  more  difficult  to  use  objec- 
tively the  superlatives  I  had  become  so 
used  to  using. 


I  also  remember  'fudging'  labs,  using 
exam  files  to  study  for  examinations 
rather  than  learning  the  theory,  and  — 
what  I  consider  most  unfortunate  — 
studying  for  grades  because  the  pressure 
was  on.  I  soon  found  out  how  meaning- 
less the  grades  were  after  being  em- 
ployed in  a  responsible  position.  Finally, 
I  remember  that  we  really  thought  that 
our  big  cousin  in  Cambridge  was  su- 
perior to  the  school  we  attended  and 
how  depressing  it  was  to  think  how 
hard  we  were  working  and  how  WPI's 
academic  reputation  was  always  second 
to  that  other  Tech.  WPI  has  moved, 
finally,  out  from  rating  second,  as  I  see 
it.  As  Gary  Davis  so  aptly  put  it  — 
engineers  are  people.  I  knew  that  when  I 
was  at  Tech;  I  was  too  busy  to  do  any- 
thing about  it.  A  school  where  curi- 
osity and  inquiries  are  stifled  in  any 
field  is  not  a  school  but  a  factory.  Don't 
confuse  liberalism  with  nurturing  cur- 
iosity. There  are  no  "liberal  arts  type 
people."  There  are,  as  there  always  have 
been,  two  types  of  college  students  — 
"serious,  questioning  types"  and  "screw- 
off  types."  I  believe  the  Plan  will  do 
much  for  both  of  these  groups,  by 
encouraging  and  possibly  initiating  curi- 
osity, and  by  helping  those  not  in- 
terested to  find  other  outlets  for  their 
creative  energy. 

I  agree  that  broadening  limitlessly  the 
scope  of  a  small  private  college  can  be 
suicide  in  these  days  of  tight  money.  I 
think  the  answer  lies  in  enforcing  the 
ties  with  other  area  colleges  to  fill  in  the 
gaps  and  limit  duplicated  effort.  After 
meeting  Dr.  Hazzard,  I  am  confident 
that  if  a  solution  to  the  dilemma  is 
possible,  it  will  be  found.  When  was  the 
last  time  you  saw  a  newborn  baby  win 
a  100-yard  dash? 

Neil  Glickstein,  '69 
San  Francisco,  Calif. 


WPI  Journal     August  19         5 


The  nuclear  debate  — 
Some  factual  corrections 

Editor:  As  a  WPI  alumnus  with  33 
years  experience  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
reactor  design,  engineering  and  evalua- 
tion, I  was  somewhat  appalled  to  read 
the  familiar  anti-nuclear  refrain  in  the 
April  1975  issue  of  the  Journal.  Neither 
of  the  letters  from  our  overseas  alumni, 
Messrs.  Baker  and  Rollins,  presents  any 
material  that  is  factually  correct. 
Without  attempting  to  refute  all  of  the 
statements  made,  I  would  like  to  answer 
a  few  points  from  both  letters  as 
follows. 

In  regard  to  the  question  of  reactor 
safety,  the  statement  "of  early  AEC 
reports  that  a  single  nuclear  accident 
could  well  result  in  45,000  fatalities, 
etc."  apparently  refers  to  AEC  Report 
WASH  740,  issued  18  years  ago.  The 
quote  is  incorrect!  WASH  740,  actually 
stated  that  "the  theoretical  estimates 
indicated  that  personal  damage  might 
range  from  a  lower  limit  of  none  injured 
or  killed  to  an  upper  limit  in  the  worst 
case  of  about  3400  killed  and  about 
43,000  injured."  Since  WASH  740  was 
not  really  an  accident  analysis  and  did 
not  attempt  to  quantify  the  potential 
accident,  the  AEC  contracted  for  a  more 
complete  study  several  years  ago  under 
the  direction  of  Dr.  Rasmussen  of  MIT. 
This  study,  costing  about  S3  million, 
was  completed  in  August  1974  and  pub- 
lished in  a  3500  page  report.  The  proba- 
bilistic approach  used  arrived  at  the  fol- 
lowing set  of  values  for  a  single  reactor 
operating  for  1  year: 


Accident 
Probability 

1  in  150.000 
1  in  2,000,000 
1  in  100,000,000 


Accident 
Consequence 

10  or  more  deaths 
100  or  more  deaths 
1200  or  more  deaths 


1  in  1 ,000,000,000      2300  or  more  deaths 

Thus  the  statement  that  there  would 
be  one  chance  in  33  of  a  major  acci- 
dent occurring  over  the  30  year  life  of 
1000  reactors  does  not  correctly  reflect 
the  results  of  the  Rasmussen  study. 

As  tor  the  Price-Anderson  Act  which 
is  aimed  at  protecting  the  public  against 
these  remote  probabilities,  so  far  the 
cost  to  the  taxpayers  has  been  essen- 
tially zero.  In  view  of  the  unlikelihood 
of  any  future  payoff  the  Price -Anderson 
Act  is  the  last  thing  we  taxpayers  should 
out! 


In  Rollin's  letter,  the  implication  is 
that  somehow  the  population  will  be 
harmed  by  routine  releases  of  radio- 
activity from  nuclear  power  plants. 
Since  the  estimated  total  man-rem  dose 
from  nuclear  plants  over  the  next  30 
years  will  be  0.001  times  that  received 
from  medical  diagnosis  and  dental  x- 
rays,  I  find  it  difficult  to  be  concerned. 

As  for  the  "pittance"  in  R&D  funds 
handed  to  the  so-called  "non-polluting" 
energy  sources  —  geothermal,  wind, 
tide,  and  solar  —  ERDA's  budget  for 
these  areas  amounts  to  more  than  $100 
million  for  FY  1975  and  FY  1976. 

Contrary  to  what  he  believes,  Alum- 
nus Baker  might  be  interested  to  know 
that  the  majority  of  those  who  worked 
on  WASH  740  18  years  ago  are  still  em- 
ployed by  the  AEC  (ERDA). 

My  final  point  is  that  the  majority  of 
the  steam  electric  generating  plants  in 
the  U.S.  operate  at  steam  pressures 
between  1800  psi-3500  psi  rather  than  at 
200-300  psi  as  stated  by  Mr.  Rollins. 
J. A.  Lane,  '36 
Oak  Ridge,  Tenn. 


How  wide  the  gap  before 
disaster? 

Editor:  The  cost  to  educate  a  Massa- 
chusetts resident  in  an  independent  or 
tax-supported  college  or  university  in 
this  state  is  surprisingly  close.  The  com- 
bined expenditures  per  student  for  1975 
are  estimated  as  follows: 

University  of  Massachusetts         $7,514 

(includes  Medical  School) 
Private  Independent  Colleges      $4,590 
State  Colleges  $4,228 

Community  Colleges  $4,326 

But  the  cost  to  the  students  for  this 
education  differs  radically.  Here  at  WPI, 
for  instance,  our  students  paid  a  tuition 
of  $2,900  last  year  while  at  a  college  in 
the  public  system  they  paid  a  mere 
$300.  Our  students  are  paying  ten 
times  more,  or  $12,000  over  four  years 
at  WPI. 

The  reason  for  this  incredible  gap  is 
no  mystery.  WPI  as  an  independent  in- 
stitution must  each  year  raise  the  bulk 
of  its  funds  (except  for  some  federally 
funded  programs,  mostly  in  research) 
from  private  sources:  from  its  students 
through  tuition,  and  from  alumni  and 
other  friends  through  their  gifts.  Stu- 
dents must  bear  a  large  portion  of  the 
cost  through  tuition.  Colleges  and  uni- 


versities in  the  state  system  are  funded 
by  the  Commonwealth.  The  more 
students  they  register,  the  more  money 
they  get  —  automatically.  Every  student 
at  a  tax-supported  school  receives  a 
large  but  hidden  scholarship  from  the 
taxpayer.  More  remarkable  still,  this 
support  is  provided  whether  the  student 
needs  it  or  not. 

Massachusetts  policy  provides  support 
for  higher  education  to  students  only  if 
they  go  to  a  tax-supported  school 
whether  the  help  is  needed  or  not.  If 
they  go  to  an  independent  college, 
students  are  on  their  own. 

This  policy  has  had  three  predictable 
results.  It  has  provided  students  access 
to  higher  education  only  in  state 
colleges  and  universities.  It  has 
stimulated  the  flow  of  larger  numbers  of 
students  to  tax-supported  institutions. 
Since  the  budget  of  these  colleges  and 
universities  is  based  on  enrollment,  this 
policy  has  led  to  the  proliferation  of 
new  programs  to  attract  more  students. 
However,  there  has  been  no  overall 
planning  or  coordination  between  the 
independent  and  public  sectors. 
Programs  are  constantly  being 
developed  in  the  state  system  that 
duplicate  those  in  the  private  sector. 

As  long  as  the  demand  for  college  ex- 
ceeded available  places  for  students,  this 
way  of  running  things  didn't  upset 
enough  people  to  raise  a  real  con- 
troversy. But  as  birth  rates  dropped  and 
inflation  soared,  the  pressure  for  college 
space  lessened,  with  the  result  that 
fewer  and  fewer  students  could  afford  to 
go  to  independent  schools.  This  now 
became  a  decision  based  on  financial 
considerations,  not  on  what  program  or 
college  might  best  suit  their  needs. 

In  the  meantime  the  tuition  gap  be- 
tween the  public  and  private  sectors  has 
widened.  The  question  now  is:  How 
wide  the  gap  before  disaster  strikes? 
Present  policy,  if  allowed  to  continue, 
will  push  many  if  not  most  of  our  in- 
dependent colleges  and  universities  right 
out  of  existence.  If  that  happens,  it  will 
have  been  brought  about  with  tax- 
payers' dollars. 

To  prevent  this  from  happening,  what 
can  and  should  be  done?  The  first  step 
was  taken  when  the  voters  of  Massachu- 
setts last  November  adopted  an  amend- 
ment to  the  Constitution  removing  tin 
prohibition  of  state  aid  to  private  insti- 
tutions of  higher  education. 


6  WPI  Journal 


Of  the  many  proposals  submitted,  the 
Massachusetts  Taxpayers  Association 
has  argued  that  tuitions  at  tax-supported 
institutions  should  be  increased  to  bring 
them  closer  to  their  true  spending.  They 
recognize  that  many  students  would 
need  financial  help  to  attend  college  and 
propose  a  state  fund  to  meet  this  need. 
The  taxpayers  argue  more  of  the  cost  of 
education  would  be  met  by  the 
beneficiary. 

An  alternative  way  to  avoid  the 
threat  of  state  control  over  all  higher 
education  would  be  to  adopt  a  program 
similar  to  the  New  York  State  Tuition 
Assistance  Plan.  Under  it,  students 
residing  in  that  state  may  get  a  tuition 
grant  as  large  as  $1500.  They  can  use  it 
at  any  school  of  their  choice  within  New 
York  State,  provided  they  qualify  for 
admission.  This  has  reduced  the  tuition 
gap  between  the  public  and  private 
sectors. 

The  advantages  of  a  New  York  State 
Tuition  Assistance  Plan  are  many.  It 
eliminates  the  control  question,  because 
the  funds  are  directed  to  the  student.  It 
provides  all  students  with  considerable 
access  and  choice  in  selecting  a  college 
within  their  state.  Unfortunately, 
because  TAP  funds  cannot  be  taken  out 
of  New  York  State,  the  program  has 
reduced  the  flow  of  New  York  students 
to  independent  colleges  and  universities 
in  Massachusetts,  exacerbating  their 
financial  plight. 

A  proposal  free  of  the  drawbacks  of 
most  would  be  a  system  of  educational 
"contracting."  Under  it,  the  Common- 
wealth of  Massachusetts  would  contract 
out  specific  educational  tasks  based  on 
needs.  It  would  pay  for  these  tasks  in 
I      the  way  it  pays  for  all  its  other  con- 
tracts for  goods  or  services.  Let's  assume 
the  Commonwealth  finds  there  is  a  need 
for  300  more  engineers  in  certain  fields. 
It  could  come  to  WPI  and  ask  us  to 
educate,  say,  100  of  these  engineers.  If 
we  had  the  space  available  we  might 
enter  into  a  contract  with  the  state. 
Such  contracting  isn't  unprecedented: 
Boston  University,  Tufts,  and  North- 
eastern are  educating  physical  therapists 
on  contract  right  now. 

The  financial  benefits  of  contracting 
are  many:  it  would  free  the  Common- 
wealth from  creating  ever-new  educa- 
tional programs  and  facilities;  it  would 
use  those  which  already  exist  at  inde- 
pendent colleges  and  universities;  it 
would  save  the  taxpayer  money;  and  it 


would  preserve  the  independent  college 
and  university,  which  has  been  such  an 
inestimable  cultural  asset  of  our 
Commonwealth  for  over  three  hundred 
years. 

This  combined  approach  of 
contracting  and  student  support  would 
use  and  preserve  what  we  have.  It 
would  save  money  for  taxpayers  and 
provide  greater  opportunity  to  all 
students. 

Whatever  the  answer  to  the  plight  of 
the  independent  institutions  of  higher 
education  in  our  Commonwealth,  public 
policy  and  philosophy  should  be 
changed  to:  provide  all  our  students 
with  the  greatest  possible  access  in 
choosing  the  college  or  university  which 
best  meets  their  needs  and  interests; 
allow  independent  and  tax-supported 
institutions  to  compete  with  equal 
ability  for  students;  preserve  the  price- 
less heritage  of  our  independent  colleges 
and  universities. 

The  gap  is  wide  and  time  is  running 
out,  but  it  can  be  closed  before  disaster. 


Thomas  J.  Denney 
Vice-President  for 
University  Relations 
WPI 


Three  alumni  named  Trustees: 
Lewin,  Smith,  Graham 

Three  alumni  were  elected  term  trustees 
at  WPI  last  spring.  They  will  each  serve 
for  five  years  on  the  Board. 

Carl  W.  Lewin,  '39,  is  vice  president 
for  international  sales  development  at 
the  Austin  Company.  He  joined  Austin 
as  a  field  engineer  in  1940  and  became  a 
project  planner  in  the  Chicago  district  in 
1942  with  responsibility  for  the  sale  of 
projects  for  Sinclair  Refining  Co.,  A.B. 
Dick  Co.,  Rand  McNally  and  others.  In 
1965  he  was  named  vice  president  and 
general  sales  manager  of  Austin's  inter- 
national operations  and  was  given 
responsibility  for  coordination  of  sales 
activities  of  the  firm's  overseas  sub- 
sidiaries. He  was  appointed  president  of 
the  International  Division  of  Austin 
Company  in  1972.  Currently  he  is  cor- 
porate vice  president  and  is  responsible 
for  promotion  of  sales  for  Austin's  in- 
ternational companies. 

Mr.  Lewin  is  a  member  of  the 
American  Society  of  Civil  Engineers  and 
the  American  Management  Association. 
He  is  past  president  of  the  Board  of 
Education  in  Palatine,  Illinois.  Twice  he 
served  as  United  Fund  Drive  chairman 
in  Palatine.  A  member  of  the  Northwest 
Council,  BSA,  he  was  awarded  the 
Silver  Beaver,  the  top  adult  honor  awar- 
ded by  the  council  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of 
America. 

Arthur  E.  Smith,  '33  former  chairman 
of  the  board  of  United  Aircraft  Cor- 
poration, is  retired.  He  joined  the  Pratt 
and  Whitney  Division  of  UAC  as  a  test 
engineer  in  1935,  becoming  a  project 
engineer  in  1938  and  chief  engineer  of 
the  Missouri  plant  in  1942.  He  was 
named  assistant  engineering  manager  in 
1952  and  engineering  manager  in  1956. 
In  1967  he  was  appointed  president  of 
Pratt  and  Whitney  and  executive  vice 
president  of  the  United  Aircraft  Cor- 
poration that  same  year.  Promoted  to 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  7 


director  of  UAC  in  1968,  he  served  as 
its  president  and  chief  administrative  of- 
ficer until  1971.  He  was  executive  com- 
mittee chairman  in  1971-1972  and 
operated  as  chairman  of  the  board  from 
1972  until  1974. 

Mr.  Smith  is  a  member  of  the  Society 
for  Automotive  Engineers  and  a  former 
member  of  the  Committee  for  Develop- 
ment of  Supersonic  Transport.  He  was 
trustee  of  the  Manchester  Memorial 
Hospital  and  a  term  trustee  at  RPI  from 
1969  until  1973.  Formerly  he  served  as  a 
member  of  the  Manchester  Redevelop- 
ment Agency  and  as  director  of  the 
Hartford  Fire  Insurance  Co.  Presently  he 
is  director  of  Travelers  Card,  the 
Savings  Bank  of  Manchester,  and 
United  Aircraft  Corporation  of  Canada. 

In  1969  he  received  an  honorary  doc- 
tor of  engineering  from  WPI  and  the 
Robert  H.  Goddard  Award  in  1967.  His 
son,  David,  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1961. 

Thomas  B.  Graham,  '38,  is  a  lawyer. 
He  was  a  former  technical  assistant  to 
patent  counsel  at  Allied  Chemical  and 
Dye  Corporation  in  New  York  from 
1940  to  1942.  He  served  as  patent  ad- 
viser to  the  director  of  the  Naval 
Reasearch  Laboratory  from  1943  to  1946 
in  the  U.  S.  Navy  in  the  office  of  the 
judge  Advocate  General.  He  was 
assistant  patent  counsel  from  1946  to 
1950  with  the  Pure  Oil  Company  in 
Chicago  and  from  1950  to  1955  was  an 
associate  member  of  a  large  firm  in  New 
York  City.  From  1956  until  1959  he 
operated  his  own  law  office,  later 
becoming  a  partner  in  a  large  New  York 
firm  from  1959  until  1965.  He  reopened 
his  own  office  in  1965. 

Mr.  Graham,  who  received  his  J.D. 
degree  from  Georgetown  University,  is  a 
member  of  the  bar  in  the  District  of 
Columbia,  Illinois,  and  New  York,  is 
admitted  to  practice  before  the  U.S. 
Patent  Office,  various  federal  courts, 
and  the  U.S.  Supreme  Court.  Since  1957 
he  has  been  an  adjunct  professor  of  law 
ol  industrial  and  technological  property 
at  the  Polytechnic   Institute  ol  Brooklyn. 
He  is  .i  member  ol  the  American  Bar 
Assoc  iation  Patent-Trademark-Copy- 
right Section,  the  Anti-Trust  Section, 
and  has  served  on  various  committees 
and  continuously  as  a  member  ol  the 
(  hemic  ,il  Pra<  tic  e  (  ommitlee.   I  le  is  also 
a  member  ol  the  International   Union  ol 
Pure  and  Applied  (  hemistry  and  the 

Patent  and  I  rademarl  Institute  <>t 


Carl  W.  Levin 


Arthur  E.  Smith 


Thomas  B.  Graham 


Canada.  He  is  active  in  the  Scarsdale 
Town  Club  and  started  a  Boy  Scout 
troop  at  his  church. 

He  is  past  president  of  the  New  York 
Chapter  of  the  WPI  Alumni  association 
and  former  member  of  the  Alumni 
Council,  Alumni  Fund  Board,  and  Com- 
mittee on  New  Students.  He  has  served 
as  a  WPI  alumni  trustee  since  1970. 

Fran  Harvey  '37  elected 
Association  president 

New  Officers  for  the  Alumni 
Association  for  the  coming  year  are: 
President:  Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37 
president  and  treasurer  of  Harvey  & 
Tracy,  Worcester,  Ma. 
Vice  President:  Richard  A.  Davis,  '53, 
president  of  King-Seeley  Thermos 
Co.,  Thermos  Division,  Norwich,  Ct. 
At  large:  Julius  A.  Palley,  '46,  co-owner 
of  Commonwealth  Stationers, 
Worcester  Ma.  John  Lott  Brown,  '46 
director  of  the  Center  for  Visual 
Science  of  the  University  of 
Rochester,  NY. 
Past  President:  Walter  J.  Bank,  '46 
marketing  manager  for  Systems 
Consultants,  Washington,  D.C. 


8  WPI  Journal 


Alan  Briggs,  '76,  is  named 
WPI's  first  All-America  in 
track 

The  temperature  at  Sacramento  (Cali- 
fornia) State  College  was  102  degrees 
when  the  race  started.  One  mile  and 
exactly  4  minutes  and  15.0  seconds 
later,  Alan  Briggs  crossed  the  finish  line 
in  seventh  place  at  the  NCAA  Division 
II  National  Track  Championships  held 
May  31.  As  one  of  the  top  eight,  Briggs 
was  named  All-America  in  track,  the 
first  WPI  student  to  be  so  honored. 
Briggs'  time  was  just  5Vi  seconds  off  the 
winning  pace  of  4:09.5.  (The  two  top- 
seeded  runners  in  the  event  finished  11th 
and  12th  ...  in  a  twelve-man  field.)  For 
more  about  Briggs,  read  the  next  story 
about 


A  grand  and  glorious  track 
season! 

If  WPI  coach  Merl  Norcross  had  his 
choice  of  days  to  live  over  again,  May 
6,  1975,  would  certainly  be  one  of 
them.  On  that  particular  Tuesday,  his 
track  team  came  through  with  flying 
colors.  In  defeating  Trinity  College  102 
to  52,  the  team  presented  Norcross  with 
his  100th  track  victory  and  rang  down 
the  curtain  on  WPI's  first-ever  un- 
defeated and  untied  season.  (In  1963  the 
track  team  was  undefeated  but  tied.) 

During  the  season,  three  new  school 
records  were  set  and  one  other  tied. 
Alan  Briggs,  '76,  ran  the  mile  in  4 
minutes  10  seconds.  Team  captain 
Jeffrey  Wnek,  '75,  ran  the  three-mile 
event  in  14  minutes  40.7  seconds,  while 
co-captain  Robert  Donle,  '75,  achieved  a 
triple  jump  of  46  feet  7Vz  inches.  Gary 
Pearson,  '77,  tied  the  13  foot  pole-vault 
record. 

In  recognition  of  their  outstanding 
achievements,  the  Poly  Club  presented 
each  member  of  the  squad  with  a  plaque 
featuring  a  color  photograph  of  the 
team,  the  season,  the  record,  and  the 
names  of  the  team  members.  The 


Alumni  Association  also  gave  each 
member  a  citation. 

The  team  posted  impressive  wins  over 
city  rivals  Worcester  State,  Clark,  and 
Assumption,  then  went  on  to  defeat 
northern  circuit  opponents  Colby, 
Middlebury,  and  Norwich  as  well  as  the 
strong  teams  of  M.I.T.  and  Tufts. 

In  the  city  meet  it  was  WPI's  overall 
depth  that  did  the  trick,  with  eight  first- 
place  finishes. 

Over  JP  weekend,  WPI  trounced 
Colby  and  Norwich  —  this  time  with 
eleven  firsts.  Gary  Pearson  topped  the 
day  with  a  pole  vault  of  13  feet  6 
inches,  but  because  of  wind  conditions 
his  jump  was  disqualified.  Against 
M.I.T. ,  the  WPI  track  men  won  89  to 
65.  Four  days  later,  Donle  set  his  triple 
jump  record  against  Tufts.  Then,  at  the 
Easterns,  held  at  Bowdoin  in  May, 
Briggs  set  his  mile  mark. 

Coach  Norcross  attributes  the  out- 
standing season  to  "the  overall  team 
balance  and  depth,  which  insured  re- 
peated victories  all  season."  One  impor- 
tant factor  in  the  strength  of  this  year's 
team  was  in  the  efforts  of  three  out- 
standing performers  who  were  second- 
generation  WPI  students  —  and  whose 


1 
t.  A    >_.     ft.  •— 

mm            r  *^*^Y 

Ji  1 

1   M 11  ^titiirr 

hai 

_  ■*.—        _ 

„     I  Ml  '!'■      ■»  JB 

V 


V 


forebears  at  WPI  were  also  prominent  in 
the  sports  scene. 

Jon  Hatch,  75,  a  four-year  letterman 
in  track  and  a  consistent  winner  in  the 
100-yard  dash,  wanted  desperately  to 
break  the  school  record  in  the  220  — 
which  his  father,  Edwin  Hatch,  '37  had 
set  back  in  1935.  Jon  didn't  make  it, 
though,  and  the  senior  Hatch's  record  of 
21.6  seconds  still  stands. 

Richard  Brandoli,  '76,  once  held 
the  WPI  record  for  javelin  (at  195  feet 
11  inches)  and  also  throws  the  hammer. 
His  father,  Raymond  A.  Brandoli,  '49, 
played  football  at  Tech  while  his  uncle, 
Harvey  Vigneault,  '49,  was  active  in 
interfraternity  sports. 

Alan  Briggs,  '76,  comes  from  a  long 
line  of  WPI  athletes.  One  brother, 
Oliver,  '70,  was  captain  of  the  basket- 
ball team  while  another,  Douglas, 
played  football.  His  uncle,  Henry 
Dumas,  '56,  was  a  baseball  player. 
Briggs'  grandfather,  Charles  D.  Briggs, 
was  a  member  of  the  Class  of  1913. 
Briggs  has  served  as  co-captain  of  the 
cross  country  team  and  was  a  sports 
writer  and  editor  for  Newspeak.He  has 
been  elected  co-captain  of  next  year's 
team. 

"This  year  Al  broke  the  record  in  the 
mile,"  reports  a  smiling  Norcross. 
"When  he  was  at  Wachusett  Regional, 
he  was  the  Knights  of  Columbus  Road 
Race  Champion  and  Class  B  state  mile 
champion.  With  talent  like  that  —  plus 
the  seniors'  four-year  record  of  40  wins 
and  7  losses,  how  could  we  lose?" 

Team  talent,  certainly,  is  a  prerequi- 
site for  a  championship  season.  So  too 
is  superior  coaching,  and  Merl  Norcross 
provided  plenty  of  that.  Speaking  about 
him,  Prof.  Robert  Pritchard,  head  of  the 
department  of  physical  education  and 


athletics,  says,  "Merl's  outstanding  suc- 
cess this  year  comes  as  no  surprise  to 
those  who  work  with  him  daily.  He  is 
devoted  to  working  with  the  track  team, 
and  no  squad  member  could  ask  for  any 
more  dedication  than  he  gives.  I  know 
that  his  quiet,  consistent  recruiting  of 
qualified  high-school  track  men,  done 
almost  exclusively  by  letter-writing  and 
phone  calls,  is  paying  off.  Further, 
Merl's  position  on  the  NCAA  Track  and 
Field  Rules  Committee  has  earned  him 
recognition  in  the  collegiate  world  and 
brings  great  credit  to  WPI.  He  richly 
deserves  this  moment  of  triumph." 

In  turn,  Norcross  credits  the  efforts  of 
others  who  contributed  to  the  winning 
season,  citing  Prof.  James  Herrion,  his 
assistant  coach,  and  Dean  John  van 
Alstyne  and  professors  Allen  Hoffman, 
'63,  Hal  Corey,  Tom  Keil,  Bill  Miller, 
and  Bob  Pritchard,  who  served  as  of- 
ficials. Managers  of  the  undefeated  team 
were  Ron  Matthews,  '75;  Tina  Tuttle, 
'78;  Carol  Sigel,  '77;  Cynthia  Gryniuk, 
'78;  and  Steve  D'AIssandro,  '78. 

Merl  Norcross  arrived  at  WPI  in  1952 
as  a  physical  education  instructor  after 
graudating  from  the  University  of  North 


Carolina  with  an  AB  and  a  master's 
degree  in  education.  He  had  been  a 
member  of  the  1948  Sugar  Bowl  team, 
the  1949  Cotton  Bowl  Team,  and  had 
run  on  two  Southern  Conference 
championship  track  teams.  In  1957  he 
was  promoted  to  assistant  professor  at 
WPI,  and  since  1967  has  been  associate 
professor  of  physical  education  and 
athletics.  He  belongs  to  the  U.S.  Track 
Coaches  Association  and  the  New 
England  Football  Coaches  Association. 
In  1973  he  was  appointed  a  member  of 
the  previously  mentioned  NCAA  rules 
committee.  He  is  currently  chairman  of 
the  Division  II  Track  and  Field  Com- 
mittee, which  runs  the  national  champ- 
ionships. Professionally  speaking,  he 
knows  his  stuff! 

Only  two  school  track  records  have 
not  yet  been  beaten  or  tied  by  WPI 
athletes  coached  by  Merl  Norcross  in 
the  past  23  years  —  the  220  by  Hatch, 
'37,  and  the  long  jump  by  Al  Deloid, 
'49,  are  still  standing.  This  year  he 
coached  the  WPI  track  team  to  that  rare 
achievement  —  the  first  unbeaten,  un- 
tied, season  in  the  school's  history.  His 
record  speaks  for  itself. 


Now  on  record! 

The  WPI  Glee  Club 
in  England,  1975 

Louis  Outran,  conductor 


Alan  Briggs  winning  the  mile  run  against 
Trinity.  You  might  just  be  able  to  make 
out  the  second-place  finisher— he's  just 
rounding  the  turn. 


You're  in  for  a  real  treat  when  you  listen  to  this  recording 
made  during  the  Glee  Club's  1975  tour  of  England.  The 
stereo  recording  was  made  in  Trinity  Cathedral,  with  the 
following  program: 

Missa  Salve  Regina,  by  Jean  Langlais,  recorded  in  antiphonal  stereo  with 

double  quartet  of  brass,  two  organs,  and  the  men's  choir 
Crucifixus,  by  Antonio  Lotti 
Chantes  a  Dieu,  by  Jan  Pieterson  Sweelink 
Ain'ta  that  Good  News,  arr.  Dawson 

Sister  Mary  Wore  Three  Lengths  of  Chain,  arr.  Bartholomew 
College  Songs,  featuring  The  Baker's  Dozen 


This  magnificent  recording  is  available  for  $4.50  plus  mailing  charges  from 
The  Humanities  Department 
Worcester  Polytechnic  Institute 
Worcester,  Massachusetts  01609 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  11 


There  was  another  young  lady  from 
Becker .  .  . 


or,  The  alumni 
get  their  revenge 
onWPI 


In  the  February  issue  we  printed  the  more  printable 
results  of  an  on-campus  limerick  contest.  We  followed 
that  with  a  challenge  to  alumni  to  see  what  they  could 
produce,  holding  out  the  inducement  of  a  beer  on  the 
house  for  each  published  specimen.  While  the  response 
was  not  overwhelming,  the  quality  was  high  and  those 
who  sent  in  entries  certainly  put  in  a  lot  of  time  and 
effort.  It  would  appear  that  the  grand  prize  for  effort 
belongs  to  Phil  Pierce,  '31,  who  sent  in  six  (count  em, 
six)  limericks! 

Evidently  the  limerick-writing  process  is  just  not  that 
easy.  Three  entrants  chose  to  comment  on  the  difficulties 
and  the  quality  of  the  finished  product: 

With  limericks  I  am  not  a  master; 
This  rhyme,  no  doubt,  's  a  disaster. 

But  I  could  care  less 

'Bout  poetic  finesse; 
It's  free  beer  at  the  Pub  that  I'm  after. 

-John  E.  D'Amico,  '74 

There  once  was  an  incredible  bunch 
Who  came  up  with  a  ridiculous  hunch: 

They  each  wrote  a  rhyme 

For  the  very  first  time 
And  made  me  regurgitate  lunch. 

-  C.  C  ha  pin  Cutler,  '37 

There  once  was  a  Put)  on  the  Hill 
Where  students  at  bay  drank  their  fill. 

They  all  tried  to  write  rhymes 

And  failed  time  aftei  time; 
Bettei  work  comes  from  graduates  still. 

John -P.  Hyde,  '45 


12  WP/  Journal 


On  other  subjects: 

The  swordfish  are  gone  and  forgotten. 

For  us  the  job  market  was  rotten. 
To  become  bigger  fools 
We  all  went  to  grad  schools, 

And  now  we  mine  coal  and  pick  cotton. 


R.A.,  77 


The  next  most  popular  topic  was  the  famous  (infamous?) 
WPI  Plan: 

Said  a  peddler  by  name  of  John  Boynt, 
While  towards  this  great  Hill  he  did  poynt: 

"Hey,  let's  build  a  school 

Where  any  damn  fool 
Can  get  a  degree  from  the  joynt!" 

—  Alex  C.  Papianou,  '57 

There  once  was  a  grumpy  alum 
Addicted  to  cola  and  rum, 

Resulting  in  letters 

Insulting  his  betters 
Who'd  Planned  for  the  future  to  come. 
—  anonymous 

At  a  school  on  a  Hill  in  Worcester 

Proffed  by  graybeards  and  8  or  10  roosters, 

They  devised  a  great  Plan 

First  espoused  by  Grogan 
And  turned  many  more  grads  into  boosters. 

-  Bill  Bushel/,  '37 

The  problems  of  women  came  in  for  some  attention: 

There  was  a  young  lady  from  Becker 
Who  lived  in  a  high-rise  three-decker. 

She  ran  up  the  stairs 

Which  started  her  cares, 
But  the  rooms  had  all  gone  with  the  wrecker. 

—  Herbert  Neuman,   '36 

There  was  a  young  woman  of  Tech 
Who  decided  to  stick  out  her  neck. 

"An  alumna  am  I," 

She  said  with  a  sigh, 
"But  they  never  bother  to  check." 

-Allison  Huse  Nunn,  '73 


Mention  limericks  and  I  rise  to  the  bait. 

No  somber  sonnets  do  I  wish  to  relate. 
When  the  subject  is  Poly, 
My  sentiment:  "How  jolly!" 

Her  praises  on  paper  I'll  state. 


Phil  Pierce,  '31 


And  finally,  in  case  you  sent  in  a  limerick  which  doesn't 
appear  here,  Phil  Pierce  has  the  last  word  on  that: 

A  limerick  requires  no  great  style; 
Just  let  your  thoughts  idle  a  while. 

Send  the  results  to  R.K. 

And  when  he's  had  his  way, 
"No  good,  sorry,"  he'll  say  with  a  smile. 


WPI  Journal    August  1975  13 


m  *- 


leiiiifi 


p  above! 


The  movie  Towering  Inferno  was  still 
playing  to  packed  houses.  Along  with 
other  'disaster'  pictures,  it  had  sharpened 
the  public's  uneasy  awareness  of  danger 
from  catastrophic  events. 

And  then  the  nation  was  stunned 
when  it  learned,  on  the  morning  of 
Friday,  February  14,  1975,  that  fire  had 
broken  out  in  the  World  Trade  Center, 
New  York  City's  tallest  building,  the 
second-highest  in  the  world. 

That  fire  was  not  the  tragedy  envi- 
sioned by  Hollywood.  No  lives  were 
lost,  and  the  building  was  not  seriously 
damaged.  But  the  question  remains: 

Could  life  imitate  art? 

Could  Towering  Inferno  really 
happen ? 

One  of  the  people  best  able  to  answer 
that  question  is  W.  Robert  Powers,  '37, 
superintendent  of  the  New  York  Board 
of  Fire  Underwriters,  one  of  the  nation's 
leading  authorities  on  fires  in  high-rise 
buildings.  Powers  was  in  charge  of  the 
Board's  investigation  of  the  World  Trade 
Center  fire,  and  his  findings  pinpoint  the 
problems  of  making  and  keeping  such 
buildings  safe  for  people  to  live  and 
work  in. 

.  .  .  think  of  this  article  the  next  time 
you're  waiting  to  see  someone  on  the 
43rd  floor. 


THE  EARLY  MORNING  NEWS  reports  set  the  minds 
of  all  fire  buffs  in  the  New  York  metropolitan  area 
to  feverish  activity.  Fire  was  reported  from  the  9th  to 
the  19th  floor  in  the  North  Tower  of  the  World  Trade 
Center.  The  possible  consquences  and  solutions  radiated 
throughout  the  area.  Suppose  6,000  people  have  to  go  to 
the  roof,  with  flames  licking  up  the  stairs,  elevators,  and 
windows.  How  can  they  be  rescued?  The  French  tight- 
rope walker  showed  how  easy  it  was  to  do  this.  Get  a 
bow  and  arrow  and  shoot  a  fishing  line  from  the  South 
Tower  to  the  North  Tower.  Pull  a  heavier  line  and  then 
a  steel  cable  between  the  two  roofs.  A  breeches  buoy 
then  could  make  a  round  trip  every  minute  carrying  one 
of  the  trapped  occupants  to  safety.  Every  minute!!  With 
6,000  people  waiting,  that  would  take  100  hours,  or  over 
four  days.  The  last  survivors  would  be  dead  of  starva- 
tion or  dehydration  if  they  managed  to  survive  the 
advancing  flames. 

There  must  be  a  better  way 

The  most  commonplace  solution  that  flashed  through 
people's  minds  to  rescue  the  imagined  trapped  6,000  was 
by  means  of  helicopters.  A  phone  call  to  New  York  Air- 
ways would  bring  two  of  their  30-passenger  helicopters 
to  pick  the  people  off  the  roof  and  deposit  them  safely  at 
Battery  Park  only  a  few  blocks  away.  Since  a  copter 
could  make  the  round  trip  in  five  minutes,  two  of  them 
could  save  720  people  per  hour.  The  whole  6,000  could 
be  moved  in  8V2  hours  .  .  .  which  is  a  long  time  when 
flames  are  singeing  your  feet.  Besides,  this  plan  ignored 
the  TV  transmission  antenna  being  erected  on  the  roof, 
the  winds  that  always  blow  at  the  110th  story,  and  the 
danger  of  engine  failure  because  of  smoke  and  heat. 

There  must  be  an  even  better  way 

Fortunately  there  were  no  trapped  occupants  on  the  roof 
during  this  fire,  and  there  certainly  is  a  better  way  to 
safeguard  the  tenants.  A  study  of  the  fire  and  of  the 
World  Trade  tower  buildings  is  necessary  to  comprehend 
that  better  way. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975      15 


ABOUT  11:35  p.m.  on  Thursday,  February  13,  1975, 
k.a  porter  finished  his  chores  on  the  12th  floor  and 
took  the  elevator  to  the  11th.  After  working  about  ten 
minutes,  he  heard  a  crackling  sound  and  saw  flames 
under  the  door  leading  to  the  R.J.  Saunders'  office.  He 
turned  in  the  fire  alarm  to  the  World  Trade  Center  Po- 
lice. The  city  fire  department  was  called,  three  policemen 
with  a  fire-equipment  cart  went  to  the  fire  floor,  and  the 
engineer  was  prepared  to  put  the  air  conditioning  into  its 
purge  mode.  One  minute  after  the  manual  alarm  was 
received,  the  smoke  detector  in  the  air  conditioning 
plenum  at  the  southeast  corner  of  the  11th  floor  oper- 
ated. Smoke  detectors  on  the  12th  to  19th  floors,  except 
for  the  15th,  operated  successively  at  about  one-minute 
intervals.  In  the  meantime  the  police,  wearing  air  packs, 
reached  the  11th  floor  and  found  the  door  to  the 
Saunders'  office  too  hot  to  open.  They  used  a  standpipe 
hose  from  a  nearby  stairway  to  try  to  cool  the  door. 
They  reported  via  walkie-talkie  of  the  serious  fire,  and 
the  air  conditioning  was  placed  into  the  purge  mode. 
This  meant  that  fresh  air  was  being  blown  into  the  core 
area  to  keep  it  free  of  smoke,  and  air  was  being  drawn 
out  of  all  the  tenant  areas  to  prevent  smoke  from 
spreading  throughout  the  building.  The  fire  department 
arrived  promptly  and  spread  hose  lines  to  bring  the  11th 
floor  fire  under  control. 

This  was  a  hot  and  stubborn  fire  to  extinguish.  It  was 
not  recognized  immediately  that  fire  had  spread  to  other 
floors,  but  a  search  disclosed  that  fire  from  telephone 
closets  on  the  12th  and  13th  floors  was  igniting  files  in 
these  office  areas.  This  discovery  caused  the  fire  depart- 
ment to  order  evacuation  of  all  cleaning  and  service 
personnel  in  the  building.  Further  search  showed  that  the 
fire  had  extended  to  telephone  closets  on  the  9th  through 
19th  floors.  These  fires  were  readily  extinguished.  The 
tire  involved  about  9,000  square  feet  of  the  11th  floor, 
destroying  about  half  the  contents  and  damaging  the  re- 
mainder. It  completely  burned  out  telephone  panels  and 
wiring  on  three  floors  and  caused  severe  damage  in  eight 
others.  lour  steel  b.ir  trusses  were  distorted  slightly. 

During  a  fire,  it  is  extremely  difficult  to  determine 
Is  on  causes  <irul  effects.  The  prime  consideration  is 
to  put  the  tire  out.  As  soon  as  the  smoke  had  cleared, 
though.  <ind  for  many  days  Liter,  a  detailed  study  was 
made  to  determine  the  origin  and  reasons  tor  the  spread 
ot  the  tire. 


R.J.  Saunders  occupied  the  southeast  corner  of  the 
11th  floor  of  the  North  Tower,  also  known  as  Tower  A 
or  1  World  Trade  Center.  On  the  day  of  the  fire,  the  last 
Saunders  employee  left  the  office  about  9:30  p.m.,  and 
the  cleaning  woman  left  about  10:30  p.m.  Both  reported 
conditions  normal  when  they  left.  The  cleaning  woman 
does  not  smoke.  It  is  believed  that  the  fire  originated  in 
the  executive  offices  from  some  unknown  source  at 
about  11:30  p.m.  Overstuffed  furniture  burned  fiercely 
and  the  fire  spread  south  and  west  along  corridors 
toward  the  open  office  area.  The  fire  entered  the  file 
room  where  numerous  records  were  stored  on  narrow 
shelves,  some  with  steel  shutters.  Unfortunately,  all  of 
the  shutters  were  open.  A  gallon  of  methyl-alcohol 
duplicating  fluid  in  this  room  was  set  aflame  by  the 
heat. 

It  appears  that  a  flashover  occurred  just  as  the  Port 
Authority  policemen  reached  the  office  door,  driving  the 
fire  out  of  the  office  it  started  in  and  breaking  seven 
windows  in  the  east  wall.  Fresh  air  to  fan  the  fire 
entered  the  11th  floor  through  these  broken  windows. 
The  outer  skin  of  the  building  suffered  no  smoke  or  heat 
damage  because  the  airflow  was  inward.  Fire  also  spread 
through  the  horizontal  channel  in  the  peripheral  heat 
diffuser  units  to  adjoining  offices.  At  about  the  same 
time  the  windows  broke,  the  air  conditioning  was  placed 
in  the  purge  mode  and  exhaust  fans  pulled  air  into  the 
plenum  to  the  return  air  duct  at  the  southeast  corner  of 
the  core.  The  air  conditioning  is  not  operated  at  night  so 
there  was  no  movement  of  air  in  the  system  prior  to  the 
purge. 

Telephone  cables  in  the  plenum  were  ignited  by  the 
fire.  Because  of  openings  around  the  cables  and  louvers 
in  the  telephone  closet  door,  fire  penetrated  the  closet  to 
ignite  telephone  panel  blocks  and  cables.  Fire  spread  to 
upper  and  lower  levels  through  openings  in  the  floors  of 
these  closets.  Cables  passed  vertically  through  the  open- 
ings, but  no  fire-stopping  was  provided  for  spaces 
around  the  cables.  The  polyethylene  and  polyvinyl- 
chloride  cable  insulation  and  plastic  panel  blocks  burned 
readily  so  that  virtually  everything  that  could  burn,  in- 
cluding the  fire-retarded  wood  paneling  on  the  telephone 
closet  walls  of  the  10th  and  12th  floors,  was  destroyed. 
Fire  emerged  from  the  telephone  closets  on  the  12th  and 
13th  floors  in  the  same  manner  it  entered  on  the  11th 
floor.  Fortunately,  there  were  relatively  small  amounts 
of  combustibles  near  the  closet  doors  on  these  floors  so 
that  the  fire  department  had  no  trouble  controlling  these 
blazes. 

Meanwhile,  back  on  the  1  1th  floor,  smoke  and  lire 
were  being  kept  out  ol  the  southeast  quadrant  by  a 


16  WPI  Journal 


one-hour  fire  partition  that  subdivided  the  floor  area  in 
accordance  with  New  York  City's  Local  Law  No.  5. 
Some  heated  gas  was  being  drawn  around  the  core  to 
the  northeast  and  northwest  return  air  outlets,  but 
closing  of  protective  dampers  now  caused  all  the  fire 
gases  to  flow  to  the  north  end  of  the  building.  Even- 
tually a  fusible  link  on  the  northeast  shaft  melted, 
closing  a  shutter,  but  it  is  believed  that  the  fire  was 
under  control  at  this  point.  However,  high  temperatures 
in  the  plenum  radiated  enough  heat  into  the  offices 
north  of  the  fire  to  melt  plastic  phones  and  char  papers 
on  desk  tops  .  .  .  but  ignition  did  not  take  place. 


c 


'ONSIDERABLE  DISCUSSION  ensued  after  this  fire 
regarding  its  effect  on  occupants  had  it  occured 
during  working  hours.  It  also  raised  the  question  as  to 
whether  more  fires  could  take  place  which  could 
threaten  the  thousands  of  people  located  throughout  the 
110  floors.  The  World  Trade  Center  is  unique  in  many 
respects,  but  it  has  sufficient  points  in  common  with  all 
high-rise  office  buildings  that  its  story  is  applicable 
everywhere. 

The  twin  towers  of  the  World  Trade  Center,  each  209 
feet  square  and  1,350  feet  tall,  rise  above  a  five-acre 
open  plaza.  There  will  eventually  be  four  low-rise 
buildings  surrounding  this  plaza  to  complete  the  project. 

While  the  casual  outsider  sees  two  towers  stretching 
skyward,  a  closer  look  would  show  that  each  building  is 
divided  into  three  vertical  sections  about  32  stories  high 
by  the  mechanical  equipment  rooms.  Tenants  would 
consider  the  building  to  be  three  units  because  of  the  sky 
lobbies  where  they  transfer  from  express  to  local 
elevators.  Elevator  engineers  might  consider  each  tower 
to  be  a  series  of  seven-  and  eight-story  buildings  because 
this  is  the  number  of  floors  served  by  individual  elevator 
banks.  None  of  these  concepts  is  correct,  however, 
because  of  overlapping  of  the  various  supposed  zones. 

Sky  lobbies  are  located  at  the  44th  and  78th  floor 
levels.  Express  elevators  carry  passengers  to  either  sky 
lobby,  which  functions  the  same  as  the  ground-floor  lob- 
by. There  are  four  banks  of  elevators  for  each  segment 
serving  six  or  seven  floors  and  having  no  openings  into 
other  floors.  This  is  an  important  feature  because 
evacuation  during  a  fire  could  be  carried  out  by  the  use 
of  all  elevators  except  for  the  bank  that  has  openings  to 
the  fire  floor.  There  is  one  elevator  which  stops  at  all 
floors,  and  it  is  set  aside  for  fire  department  use  during 
an  emergency.  The  air-conditioning  system  actually 
divides  the  building  into  four  vertical  sections.  Fan 


rooms  on  the  7th,  41st,  75th,  and  108th  floors  provide 
air  conditioning  for  floors  1-24,  25-58,  59-91,  and  92- 
106,  respectively. 

The  basic  fire  protection  consists  of  standpipes  with 
hose  and  two  fire  extinguishers  in  each  of  the  three  stair 
towers.  Water  supply  for  the  standpipes  is  from  5,000 
gallon  tanks  on  four  levels.  Only  two  pumps  in  series 
are  required  to  provide  the  pressure  needed  to  reach  the 
top  of  the  tower. 

At  the  time  of  the  fire  smoke  detectors  were  being  in- 
stalled at  the  return  air  outlets  in  the  four  quadrants  of 
each  floor.  This  installation  is  now  complete.  These  will 
sound  an  alarm  and  identify  their  location  at  the  Police 
Desk.  In  addition,  operation  of  these  smoke  detectors 
will  shut  down  the  air-conditioning  system. 

There  is  a  manual  fire  alarm  box  on  each  floor  that 
provides  two-way  communication  with  the  Police  Desk 
in  the  basement. 

Some  floors  or  sections  of  floors  have  been 
sprinklered,  including  all  restaurants  not  under  Port 
Authority  ownership.  Sprinklers  have  not  been  provided 
in  Port  Authority  restaurants  because  the  furnishings 
meet  their  special  flammability  standards.  Hoods  in  all 
kitchens  are  equipped  with  automatic  fire  protection  of 
various  types. 

Any  discussion  of  the  World  Trade  Center  would  be 
incomplete  without  mentioning  two  unique  fire  safety 
features:  their  limits  on  contents  combustibility  and  their 
fire  safety  plan.  In  1970,  before  the  first  tenants  moved 
into  the  building,  the  Port  Authority  Safety  Department 
recognized  the  hazard  of  combustible  furnishings, 
especially  foamed  plastic  cushioning  for  chairs  and  sofas. 
Specifications  for  flammability  of  furnishings  were 
developed;  they  are  adhered  to  in  Port  Authority  and 
New  York  State  Offices  and  are  urged  for  use  in  other 
tenants'  offices.  Briefly,  these  recommendations  ask  that 
chairs  be  no  more  hazardous  than  red  oak,  that 
upholstery  materials,  drapes,  and  curtains  be  self- 
extinguishing  as  defined  by  federal  specifications,  and 
that  carpets  have  specified  low  flame-spread  ratings. 
These  recommendations  do  not  call  for  completely  non- 
combustible  furnishings,  but  they  do  limit  the  fire  hazard 
to  prevent  extremely  rapid  combustion. 

The  fire  safety  program  of  the  World  Trade  Center  is 
excellent.  It  should  be,  since  50,000  tenant  workers  and 
65,000  visitors  each  day  are  anticipated  in  this  complex. 
There  is  a  full  time  fire  protection  engineer  and  five  fire 
safety  directors,  trained  and  certified  by  the  New  York 
City  Fire  Department,  for  the  Center  during  the  day.  At 
night  there  are  two  fire  safety  directors.  Their  duty  is  to 
control  fire-fighting,  notify  tenants  of  conditions,  and 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  17 


guide  evacuation  until  the  fire  department  takes  control. 
In  addition,  there  is  an  initial  fire  brigade  of  three 
trained  policemen  to  respond  immediately  to  each  alarm 
with  a  fire-fighting  cart  containing  extinguishers,  air 
packs,  resuscitators,  and  first  aid  kit.  Communication 
between  units  is  maintained  by  walkie-talkies  carried  by 
all  of  these  men  and  furnished  to  the  fire  department  on 
arrival.  This  is  not  just  a  paper  organization  —  fire  drills 
are  held  every  three  months  with  every  tenant  and  its 
wardens  participating.  Once  each  year  informatory 
sessions  are  held  to  update  tenants  on  the  latest  fire- 
prevention  information.  Of  prime  importance  are  fire 
drills  held  monthly  (on  Sundays)  by  the  New  York  City 
Fire  Department.  The  same  crews  are  not  brought  in 
every  time,  but  second  and  third  alarm  companies  in 
remote  locations  also  drill  in  case  they  must  respond  to 
the  Center. 


One  important  factor  to  be  aware  of  is  New  York 
City's  Local  Law  No.  5,  Fire  Safety  in  High-Rise 
Buildings.  This  law,  generally  speaking,  gives  a  building 
owner  the  option  of  installing  automatic  sprinklers  or 
providing  a  series  of  other  alternatives. 

1.  The  law  requires  large  floor  areas  to  be  sub- 
divided into  compartments  of  no  more  than  7,500  square 
feet  by  one-hour  fire  partitions.  Where  a  tenant  wants  a 
large  open  area,  the  entire  floor  is  sprinklered. 

2.  The  law  requires  that  stairs  be  pressurized  or  an 
automatic  smoke-evacuation  system  provided. 

3.  Smoke  detectors  must  be  provided  on  each  floor 
at  each  return  air  shaft. 

4.  There  must  be  a  manual  fire  alarm  and  com- 
munication system  that  provides  two-way  com- 
munications with  the  fire  wardens  on  every  floor  and  a 
public-address  system  to  communicate  with  the  tenants 
on  one  floor  or  any  series  of  floors. 

5.  The  law  requires  smoke  detectors  in  all  elevator 
lobbies  to  send  elevators  to  the  ground  floor  or  sky  lob- 
by on  actuation. 

6.  It  is  required  that  interlocks  on  elevators  be  wired 
with  high-temperature  wire  and  equipped  with  a 
Fireman's  switch  that  gives  a  fireman  complete  control  of 
the  elevator. 

7.  It  is  required  that  there  be  floor  wardens,  fire 

".  directors,  tire-command  centers,  and  evacuation 
drills  with  tenants. 


MANY  PEOPLE  have  asked:  How  safe  are  the 
two  World  Trade  Towers?  Realizing  that  about 
65,000  people  may  be  in  one  tower  at  any  height  from 
ground  level  to  1,350  feet,  it  is  obvious  that  there  is  no 
margin  for  error.  Overall,  these  towers  may  be  con- 
sidered among  the  safest  buildings  in  New  York  City. 
There  are  bad  points  —  fireproofing  of  the  steel  may  be 
missing  in  places;  openings  have  been  made  in  floors 
and  walls,  but  it  must  be  said  that  the  World  Trade  of- 
ficials have  reacted  quickly  to  fire-stop  these  openings; 
fire  rating  of  shafts  is  just  above  minimum  requirements; 
wiring  ducts  under  the  floor  (as  in  many  other  buildings) 
have  questionable  fire  resistance;  and  construction 
hazards  and  deficiencies  due  to  incomplete  construction 
are  still  present. 

However,  the  good  points  outweigh  the  bad: 

•Limited  combustibility  of  furnishings  is  a  proper 
point  to  start.  If  tenants  would  support  these  recom- 
mendations, the  chance  of  a  serious  fire  would  be  small. 

•Good  vertical  protection  between  windows  and  at  the 
junction  of  the  outer  wall  and  floor  slab. 

•Non-combustible  building  components  including  ther- 
mal insulation. 

•Ability  to  vent  smoke  and  pressurize  core. 

•Automatic  sprinkler  protection  in  basements,  shops, 
and  special  hazard  areas. 

•The  presence  of  trained  fire  safety  directors  and 
police  for  fighting  fires,  as  well  as  drills  with  the  New 
York  City  Fire  Department  in  case  of  fire. 

Last  and  perhaps  least  understood  is  the  building 
arrangement.  The  building  is  subdivided  into  many  ver- 
tical components  so  that  total  involvement  in  fire  is 
almost  impossible.  There  are  only  three  vertical  shafts 
that  travel  the  height  of  the  building,  and  only  one  has 
openings  on  every  floor  and  is  designated  for  fire  depart- 
ment use.  The  other  two  elevator  shafts  have  openings 
only  at  ground  floor,  the  sky  lobbies,  and  in  the  upper 
third  of  the  building.  The  chimney  effect  so  often  men- 
tioned as  a  danger  in  high-rise  buildings  cannot  be  100 
stories  in  effect,  but  will  be  divided  into  four  compo- 
nents by  the  action  of  the  air-conditioning  systems. 
None  of  the  stairs  run  straight  from  the  top  to  the  bot- 
tom of  the  building.  Stair  towers  are  offset  at  various 
floors  where  the  size  of  the  core  changes  or  the  number 
of  elevators  serving  a  floor  is  reduced.  At  each  of  these 
points,  horizontal  passageways  lead  to  the  new  shaft 
locations  and  fire  doors  are  provided.  These  doors 
would  prevent  smoke  from  contaminating  a  stairway 
from  top  to  bottom.  The  arrangement  of  elevators  is 
such  that  they  could  not  carry  fire  throughout  the 
building,  but  could  only  be  a  factor  in  a  limited  number 
of  Floors. 


18  WP/  Journal 


THE  NEED  for  a  better  way  to  save  people 
trapped  in  a  fire  has  been  demonstrated.  There  is 
a  better  way  —  Don't  let  it  happen.  What  is  true  of  the 
twin  towers  is  true  of  many,  if  not  at  all,  high-rise  office 
buildings  and  will  be  applicable  in  varying  degrees. 
Similarly,  what  has  been  learned  in  other  high-rise  office 
fires  in  New  York  City  will  certainly  be  applicable  to  the 
World  Trade  Center. 

There  are  over  2,000  high-rise  buildings  in  New  York 
City,  excluding  residential  structures.  Of  this  total,  805 
are  Manhattan  office  buildings.  Experience  has  shown 
that  about  170  fires  will  start  in  these  buildings  each 
year,  and  most  will  be  of  no  consequence.  In  151  of 
these  office  buildings  that  are  fully  sprinklered,  records 
show  that  in  the  past  six  years  there  were  85  fires  in 
which  sprinklers  came  into  operation.  Sixty-four  of  these 
were  controlled  by  one  head,  11  fires  by  two  heads,  6 
fires  by  three  heads,  and  single  fires  by  four,  five,  and 
six  heads.  There  was  only  one  failure,  which  was  caused 
by  a  shut  floor  valve.  These  fires  occurred  from  the 
basement  to  the  34th  floor. 

The  experience  in  New  York  City  for  almost  75  years 
shows  that  fires  can  be  started  from  many  different 
causes,  ranging  from  an  Air  Force  bomber  crashing  into 
the  Empire  State  Building  to  a  cigarette  dropped  into  an 
over  stuffed  chair.  Somewhere  in  between  are  the  in- 
cendiary device  hidden  in  a  reception  room  and  the 
welder's  sparks  that  have  been  responsible  for  many 
fires.  However,  the  list  of  spectacular  fires  In  New 


York  City  for  the  fifty  years  from  1917  to  1967  is  very 
small,  and  the  loss  of  life  was  essentially  zero  in  all  high- 
rise  fires  in  this  period.  The  exception,  of  course,  is  the 
plane  crash,  which  sprayed  about  800  gallons  of 
gasoline  on  two  floors  but  still  did  not  jeopardize  the 
strength  of  the  building.  Not  all  fires  have  been  confined 
to  one  floor:  the  Woolworth  Building  had  a  grease  duct 
fire  that  extended  from  the  basement  to  the  roof  of  the 
building;  the  Empire  State  had  an  insulation  fire  that 
spread  from  the  31st  to  the  66th  floors,  and  fires  in 
elevator  shafts  are  relatively  common.  There  were 
serious  and  unusual  fires,  but  they  were  readily  con- 
trolled before  reaching  conflagration  proportions. 

However,  in  1968  and  early  1969,  experience  changed 
dramatically  with  the  occurrence  —  only  months  apart 
—  of  the  Time  and  Life  Building  fire  that  provided  spec- 
tacular television  shots,  the  Chemical  Bank  fire  that 
frightened  occupants  because  of  smoke  penetrating  many 
stories,  and  the  fire  in  an  architect's  office  that  killed  ten 
occupants.  The  fact  that  this  last  fire  was  not  in  a  high- 
rise  building,  but  on  the  3rd  floor  of  a  small  five-story 
fire-resistive  building,  heightened  the  concern  of  New 
Yorkers  for  their  safety.  The  fires  in  1970  at  1  New  York 
Plaza  and  919  Third  Avenue,  where  a  total  of  five 
people  died,  showed  that  the  safeguards  of  the  past  no 
longer  existed.  It  was  apparent  that  hazards  and  deficien- 
cies do  exist  in  high-rise  office  buildings,  and  local  Law 
No.  5  was  enacted  to  reduce  or  eliminate  the  danger  to 
life. 

WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  19 


WHAT  ARE  THE  HAZARDS  today  that  were  not 
present  in  the  fifty-year  trouble  free  period? 

1.  Combustible  furnishings.  In  order  to  have  a  fire,  it  is 
necessary  to  have  something  to  burn.  The  all-steel  office 
of  the  20s  and  30s  with  steel  desks,  steel  files,  steel  and 
glass  partitions,  and  masonry-enclosed  stockrooms  are 
becoming  a  thing  of  the  past.  In  their  place,  fashion  dic- 
tates the  use  of  overstuffed  chairs,  wood  desks,  com- 
bustible "landscape"  partitions,  combustible  carpeting, 
and  combustible  paneling  or  finish  on  the  walls.  The 
most  serious  aspect  is  that  very  highly  flammable 
foamed  polyurethane  and  foamed  rubber  cushioning  is 
used,  which  burns  at  an  extremely  high  rate  and  gives 
off  flammable  gases  and  copious  smoke.  Burning  of  this 
material  is  so  rapid  as  to  pose  a  threat  to  people  in  the 
immediate  or  nearby  areas. 

Not  to  be  overlooked  is  the  tremendous  quantity  of 
paper  used  in  offices.  Computer  printouts  use  large 
quantities  of  paper  and  generate  masses  of  used  carbon 
paper.  The  storage  of  files  on  open  racks  or  in  card- 
board cartons  can  turn  an  office  into  a  small  warehouse. 
Reference  libraries  in  lawyer's  offices  and  drawing  racks 
in  architects'  offices  create  a  severe  fire-loading  and  have 
caused  several  serious  fires. 

2.  Central  air  conditioning.  The  central  air- 
conditioning  system  itself  is  not  a  fire  hazard.  It  is  im- 
portant because  it  can  spread  smoke  throughout  a 
building,  carry  fire  from  one  section  to  another,  and  in- 
tensify a  fire.  Smoke  can  carry  through  a  system  even 
when  it  is  shut  down  and  create  intolerable  conditions 
on  floors  other  than  where  the  fire  is.  The  fresh  air 
brought  in  by  the  air  conditioning  tends  to  fan  a  fire, 
and  drawing  the  air  into  the  plenum  can  spread  the  fire 
in  the  direction  of  the  return  air  shaft.  Because  of  this, 
no  combustibles  should  be  allowed  in  the  plenum  to 
create  additional  heat  and  more  problems.  This  tendency 
tor  tire  to  travel  to  the  return  air  shaft  can  be  an  ad- 
vantage if  the  shaft  is  non-combustible  and  smoke  is 
discharged  to  the  outside.  This  will  tend  to  prevent  a 
build-up  of  pressure  in  the  fire  floor  from  the  heated 

■irul  lessen  the  spread  of  smoke  in  the  building.  If 
only  a  portion  of  a  space  is  involved  in  fire,  sufficient 
cool  ciir  will  be  carried  along  with  the  hot  gases  to 
moderate  the  temperature  impact. 

The  popularity  ol  air  conditioning  has  introduced 
.mother  hazard  —  combustible  insulation  in  the  walls. 
Foamed  plastics  .ire  excellent  insulation  materials,  but 
they  «ire  extremely  flammable.    Tests  have  shown  that  ex- 
posed polyurethane  foam  on  .i  wall  burns  so  r«ipidly  it 
c.in  outrun  the  fusing  <ind  operating  of  sprinkler  he, ids. 
Such  insulation  should  never  be  exposed  in  walls,  sh.itts, 

or  c  once. iled  sp.ices  but  should  always  D€  enclosed  by  a 
none  ombustible  tlierrn.il  banii 


3.     Design  faults.  Building  codes  in  general  have 
requirements  that  will  provide  a  reasonably  fire-safe 
building.  Tests  by  fire  at  impartial  laboratories  are  con- 
ducted by  manufacturers  to  prove  their  products  meet 
code  requirements.  Unfortunately,  no  provision  seems  to 
be  made  for  protection  of  openings  in  floors  and  walls. 
Consequently,  some  holes  are  not  filled  or  others  are 
filled  with  materials  that  disappear  in  the  first  few  secon- 
ds of  fire.  It  is  ridiculous  to  spend  time  and  money  to 
prove  that  a  floor  or  wall  can  withstand  a  two-hour  fire 
and  then  allow  holes  to  be  cut  in  it  that  destroy  the  fire 
resistance. 

There  is  another  design  fault  in  the  creation  of  vertical 
shafts  around  columns  in  exterior  walls,  or  in  the  ex- 
terior skin  of  the  building.  Such  openings  have  allowed 
fire  to  spread  from  one  floor  to  another  where  only 
flammable  plastic  foam  served  as  a  fire  barrier  to  the 
shaft. 

Another  problem  is  the  entire  design  of  the  modern 
light-weight  building.  Although  the  components  have 
passed  fire  tests,  they  provide  no  reserve  for  unexpected 
conditions.  For  example,  a  concrete-block  wall  will  be 
still  standing  and  preventing  fire  spread  long  after  its 
two-hour  fire  exposure.  By  contrast,  many  modern 
assemblies  will  disappear  if  fire  lasts  only  a  few  minutes 
longer  than  specified  test  durations. 

Similarly,  sprayed  fireproofing  has  successfully  passed 
fire  tests,  but  conditions  in  the  field  are  not  the  same  as 
in  the  laboratory.  Even  if  the  sprayed  material  is 
properly  formulated  and  applied  to  the  proper  thickness, 
it  may  not  adhere  to  the  surface  or  it  may  be  knocked 
off  as  other  building  services  are  installed.  The  result  is 
that  the  expected  fire  protection  is  not  here  when  it  is 
needed. 

In  many  discussions  of  protection  of  high  rise  office 
buildings,  much  has  been  said  of  the  trade-offs  that 
should  be  allowed  where  automatic  sprinklers  are  in- 
stalled. The  facts  of  life  are  that  the  trade-offs  have 
already  been  taken  in  the  modern  design  of  buildings. 
The  installation  of  sprinklers  is  the  best  way  to  return 
building  protection  to  the  level  of  the  past. 

The  only  other  alternative  is  to  provide  a  redundancy 
of  protection  such  as  required  by  New  York's  Local  Law 
No.  5,  minimize  the  fire  hazards  within  the  building,  and 
constantly  supervise  the  maintenance  of  building  protec- 
tion. 


20  WP/  Journal 


4.  Communication  and  power  wiring  The  sheer  bulk  of 
the  electrical  and  communications  equipment  in  a  major 
office  creates  a  problem  because  of  the  number  of  wires 
and  cables  required  to  supply  them.  Where  conduit  or 
under-floor  raceways  are  provided,  the  hazard  is  almost 
nonexistent.  All  that  is  required  is  fire-stopping  where 
the  cables  pass  under  or  through  power  or  telephone 
closet  walls.  The  worst  and  most  hazardous  condition  is 
when  wires  and  cables  with  combustible  insulation  are 
run  through  plenums  to  service  the  floor  above.  This 
provides  a  double  hazard  by  introducing  combustibles 
into  the  air  conditioning  system  and  by  requiring  open- 
ings in  the  floor  that  are  not  equipped  with  fittings  or 
fire-stopping  equivalent  to  the  fire  resistance  of  the  floor 
itself.  Telephone  cables  can  carry  more  than  messages 

—  they  can  carry  fire  through  a  wall  even  when 
conventional  fire  stopping  is  provided.  The  mass  of 
cables  that  supplies  communications  equipment  in  many 
offices  is  sufficient  to  sustain  a  substantial  fire.  While  an 
individual  cable  is  extremely  difficult  to  ignite,  a  group 
of  cables  lying  parallel  will  burn  intensely,  just  as  will  a 
group  of  logs  in  a  fireplace.  A  fairly  recent  development 
is  the  installation  of  telephone  and  communications 
equipment  by  other  than  the  local  telephone  utility.  The 
equipment  is  often  not  located  in  telephone  closets,  and 
it  and  its  wiring  contains  considerable  combustible 
plastics  that  could  be  a  source  of  fire. 

The  contention  that  telephone  and  other  communi- 
cations wiring  cannot  create  a  hazard  because  of  low 
voltage  and  low  amperage  is  simply  not  borne  out  by 
experience  in  New  York  City.  A  substantial  number  of 
fires  of  electrical  origin  have  occurred  in  telephone 
equipment  in  office  buildings.  In  addition,  faults  of  in- 
stallation such  as  lack  of  fire-stopping  or  installation  in 
improper  locations  threaten  the  fire  safety  of  buildings. 

5.  Elevator  call  buttons.  Finger-sensitive  elevator  call 
buttons  have  been  responsible  for  calling  elevators  to  a 
fire  floor.  If  the  car  is  occupied,  its  riders  are  subjected 
to  the  fury  of  the  fire  when  the  doors  open.  These  but- 
tons can  be  operated  by  heat,  smoke,  flames,  and  other 
conditions  present  during  a  fire. 


6.     Hazards  of  construction.  Many  fires  in  New  York 
City  have  shown  that  the  fire  hazard  of  a  building  which 
is  still  in  the  process  of  construction,  but  partially  oc- 
cupied by  permanent  tenants,  are  serious.  There  is  a 
dual  control  which  makes  it  difficult  to  implement  safety 
plans.  There  are  operations  and  hazards  that  will  not  be 
there  when  the  building  is  completed.  Openings  are  left 
in  floors  for  future  electrical  or  air-conditioning  equip- 
ment. Temporary  elevator  doors  to  accommodate  large 
equipment  are  substandard  or  left  open.  Protection  is 
not  applied  to  air-conditioning  ducts  that  pass  through 
corridors.  Openings  are  not  fire-stopped  in  walls  and 
floors.  Protective  coatings  are  removed  from  structural 
steel;  and  large  accumulations  of  combustible  materials 
or  combustible  packaging  are  usually  present.  Alarm 
devices  may  be  only  partially  operable  or  not  yet  ac- 
cepted by  the  building  owner.  Welding,  cutting, 
soldering,  and  careless  smoking  can  start  fires. 

To  cope  with  these  hazards,  basic  fire  protection 
features  such  as  stairs,  elevators,  alarms,  and  standpipes 
must  be  in  service  to  the  level  of  the  highest  tenant.  Fire 
partitions  around  the  tenant's  space  must  be  complete 
even  if  temporary  fire-stopping  is  necessary  until  work 
in  the  area  is  completed.  Tenants  should  be  acquainted 
with  evacuation  procedures,  location  of  fire-protection 
equipment,  and  most  of  all  with  information  on  hazards 
and  hazardous  areas  to  be  avoided.  Strict  supervision 
must  be  provided  to  prevent  operations  that  might  en- 
danger tenants,  such  as  chopping  holes  in  stair  towers, 
welding  adjacent  to  occupied  areas,  or  creating  smoke 
conditions  in  air-handling  equipment.  It  is  hot  possible 
to  anticipate  all  of  the  hazards,  but  the  precautions  can 
be  narrowed  down  to  providing  the  tenants  with  totally 
enclosed  fire-safe  construction  with  no  unprotected 
openings. 


IN  CONCLUSION,  fire  safety  at  the  World  Trade 
Towers,  as  in  all  other  high-rise  buildings,  is  what  the 
owner  and  the  tenants  make  it.  The  owner  must  provide 
an  inherently  safe  building,  competent  personnel  to 
maintain  it,  and  proper  supervision  of  hazards  in  the 
building.  The  tenants  have  the  obligation  to  be  aware  of 
the  safety  features  and  evacuation  plans  and  to  partici- 
pate in  drills.  They,  too,  have  the  responsibility  for  safe- 
guarding hazards  in  their  operations,  and  in  minimizing 
the  effects  of  a  fire  in  their  premises.  Only  this  kind  of 
cooperation  can  ensure  that  no  conflagrations,  such  as 
recently  occurred  in  Brazil,  can  endanger  the  people  and 
the  businesses  in  their  building. 


Illl'l 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  21 


Reunion  1975 


\ 


1 


r 


Ht'!> 


C.  Marshall  Darin,  '35,  comparing  notes 
with  Stephen  J.  Hebert,  '66,  secretary- 
treasurer  of  the  Association. 


President  and  Mrs.  Hazzard  welcomed 
members  of  three  reunion  anniversary 
classes  -  1925,  1935,  and  1950  —  into 
Jeppson  House,  the  president's 
residence;  for  cocktails  and  conversation. 


At  the  Hazzard's  reception  for  them,  '35 
class  members  Homer  Morrison  and  Ray 
Granger  meet  old  friends. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  23 


It  was  billed  as  the  "Good  Old  Days 
Get-Together,  "  and  though  a  bit  late  in 
getting  started,  was  a  pleasant 
relaxation  for  those  at  Reunion.  Music 
for  dancing  was  provided  by  a  banjo 
band,  and  the  whole  thing  took  place  in 
"the  Wedge, "  the  new  addition 
connecting  Daniels  and  Morgan  halls. 
Pretzels,  peanuts,  candlelight.  Add 
something  to  drink,  friends  to  talk  and 
laugh  with,  spirited  music  for  those  who 
like  to  dance,  and  what  you  had  was 
the  Friday  night's  GODGT. 


24      August   197B      WPi  Journal 


r-W'  y**f~ 


rev*.  ■  -  >,* 


'J?''' 


> 


v 


&*&• 


H.Ti 


k 


/ 


/ 


> 


X 


/ 


Members  of  the  C/ass  of  1910,  back  for 
their  65th  reunion,  gather  around  the 
sundial  in  front  of  Boynton  Hall.  The 
solar  clock  was  a  gift  of  the  class  when 
they  graduated.  Although  the  Reunion 
attendance  cup  traditionally  is  won  by 
.the  50th  anniversary  reunion  class  — 
and  it  was  this  year  —  1910  came 
within  a  couple  of  percentage  points  of 
carrying  off  the  trophy. 


"Bud"  Thayer,  '24,  tips  his  hat  to  one 
of  the  ladies  at  Reunion. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  1 25 


Francis  S.  Harvey,  '37,  accepts  the 
gavel  symbolizing  the  presidency  of  the 
Alumni  Association,  from  Walter  J. 
Bank,  '46,  who  has  led  the  Association 
for  two  years. 


Carl  Backstrom,  '30,  being  given  a 
surprise  Taylor  Award  at  Saturday's 
luncheon.  Carl  is  chairman  of  the 
Citations  Committee,  but  this  was  one 
citation  he  had  no  hand  in  writing! 


C.  Marshall  Dann,  '35,  Goddard  Award 
winner  (and  U.S.  Patent  Commissioner), 
presents  President  Hazzard  with  a  check 
for  his  class 's  40th  anniversary  gift  to 
the  Institute -over  $57,000/ 


Herbert  F.  Taylor  Award  winners  Carl 
Backstrom,  '30;  Edwin  B.  "Ted" 
Coghlin,   '23;  and  Earl  C.  Hughes,  '14 
showing  off  their  award  certificates  to 
WP/'s  president. 


Goddard  Award  winner  Sigurd  ("Si") 
Wendin,  '25,  with  Mrs.  Robert  Goddard 
and  President  George  W.  Hazzard. 


26      August    '  '  '       WPI  Journal 


That  was  Reunion  '75 


Coming  up  is  a 
super  spectacular 

HOMECOMING 
October  18, 1975 


Mark  your  Calendar 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  27 


The  data  on  which  these  c/ass  notes  are 
based  had  all  been  received  by  the 
Alumni  Association  before  June  I, 
when  it  was  compiled  for  publication. 
Information  received  after  that  date  will 
be  used  in  succeeding  issues  of  the  WPI 
JOURNAL. 


1906 

The  L.  Norman  Reeves  recently  sold  their 
winter  home  in  Florida  and  now  reside  all 
year  at  24  Melrose  Ave.,  Falmouth  Heights, 
Mass. 


1908 

Class  Secretary  Donald  D.  Simonds  writes 
that  Marion  Kendall,  the  widow  of  Clayton 
Kendall,  passed  away  on  February  25,  1975. 

1912 

The  proposed  Rte.  20  bypass  paralleling  Main 
Street  in  Marlboro,  Mass.,  might  be  named 
Granger  Boulevard  in  appreciation  of  a  life- 
long commitment  to  the  community  by  J. 
Francis  Granger.  The  proposal  was  recently 
made  by  the  Massachusetts  commissioner  of 
public  works,  Paul  Sharon,  and  is  subject  to 
the  approval  of  the  city  council.  Mr.  Granger 
was  superintendent  of  streets  in  Marlboro  for 
34  years  and  was  clerk  of  the  works  for  Marl- 
boro Hospital.  Currently  he  is  a  vice  president 
of  the  Marlboro  Hospital  Corp.  and  a  sec- 
retary of  the  Massachusetts  Highway  Asso- 
ciation. 


1913 


William  R    Stults,  who  now  resides  with  his 
son  in  Macon,  Ga.,  recently  has  taken  trips  to 
Ridgecrest,  N.C.,  DeLand,  Fla.,  and  Massa 
chusetts. 


1918 

Benjamin  Luther  continues  to  reside  in  Erie, 
Pa.  and  is  active  on  behalf  of  the  college.  He 
has  been  named  to  the  President's  Advisory 
Council  at  WPI 


1922 

Prof.  Carl  F.  Meyer  is  still  leading  his  second 
professional  life  as  a  cellist  in  the  Florida 
Symphony  Orchestra,  which  has  a  yearly 
budget  of  $670,000.  Although  he  retired  ten 
years  ago  from  teaching  at  WPI,  he  retains 
his  ties  to  engineering  by  keeping  his  26-year- 
old  textbook,  Route  Surveying  and  Design, 
up  to  date.  Alumni  will  be  interested  to  know 
that  the  co-author  of  the  new  5th  edition  will 
be  Prof.  Robert  Schultz,  '55,  a  full  professor 
of  civil  engineering  at  Oregon  State  Univer- 
sity. Recently  Prof.  Meyer  has  visited  with 
Russ  Cushing,  '22,  and  Bill  Raymond,  a 
former  student  from  the  class  of  1944.  Bill  is 
chief  of  the  traffic  section  of  the  consulting 
firm  of  Gannett,  Fleming,  Corddry  and  Car- 
penter. 

1928 

Harold  R.  Voigt  retired  from  the  U.S.A.F. 
after  21  years  of  federal  civil  service.  At  the 
time  of  his  retirement  he  was  chief  of  the  Fire 
Protection  Division  at  Wright-Patterson  AFB 
in  Ohio. 

1929 

Francis  Wiesman  has  been  elected  to  the 
board  of  directors  of  the  American  Institute 
of  Parliamentarians,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  He 
teaches  parliamentary  procedure  at  the 
School  of  Industrial  Relations  run  by  the 
archdiocese  of  Boston. 

1930 

Stanley  H.  Fillion  is  self  employed  part  time. 
Most  of  his  work  is  for  the  Dresser  Transpor- 
tation Equipment  Division  of  Dresser  Indus- 
tries. He  also  enjoys  woodworking,  fixing  up 
the  house,  and  browsing  in  second  hand 
book  shops.  .  .  .  James  E.  McLoughlin, 
who  was  an  engineering  group  leader  at  the 
A.W.  Haydon  Co.,  Waterbury,  Conn.,  is  re- 
tired. .  .  .  Fred  P.  Peters  continues  as  ad- 
junct associate  professor  of  management  at 
Seton  Hall  University  and  is  also  an  associate 
in  BCM  Associates,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 

1931 

Everett  E.  Johnson,  formerly  of  the  Navy 
Department  in  Washington,  D.C.,  is  retired. 
He  was  married  two  years  ago  to  Elizabeth 
Cameron  and  currently  the  couple  resides  in 
Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  .  William  H.  Mill,  a  field 
manager  with  the  Factory  Insurance  Associa- 
tion in  Charlotte,  N.C.,  for  many  years,  has 
retired.  ...  In  March  Albert  I.  Palm  was 
commended  by  the  Chief  of  Police  in  San 
Diego,  Calif.,  for  deliberately  colliding  his  car 
with  a  driverless  runaway  vehicle  which  was 
rolling  down  a  steep  hill.  The  tribute  read: 
"Your  actions  in  this  situation  are  commend- 
able. You  risked  yourself  and  your  property 
to  stop  a  vehicle  which,  if  it  had  been  al- 
lowed to  run  its  course,  could  have  resulted 
in  much  more  damage  to  property  and/or  to 
the  death  or  injury  of  some  innocent  person." 


1932 


Edgar  C.  Ansaldi  has  retired.  He  was  chief 
of  the  test  department  of  Pratt  &  Whitney 
Aircraft,  East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  John  O. 
Charles  has  also  retired.  He  was  with  the 
American  Steel  &  Wire  Co.  in  Dallas,  Texas. 
.  .  .  Other  retirees  include  Theodore  S. 
Chmura,  American  Bosch  Corp.,  Springfield, 
Mass.;  Roland  F.  Downing,  plant  engineer, 
Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  North  Haven, 
Conn.;  and  Earle  E.  Green,  division  under- 
writing manager  for  the  metropolitan  New 
York  area  of  Liberty  Mutual  Insurance  Com- 
pany following  42  years  of  service.  Green  was 
also  general  manager  of  the  600  employee, 
Lynbrook,  L.I.,  office  as  well  as  assistant  sec- 
retary of  the  company.  .  .  .  Carroll  C. 
Misener  recently  retired  as  a  mechanical 
engineer  with  the  U.S.  Naval  Ordnance  Lab. 
in  Silver  Spring,  Md.  .  .  .  Edwin  L.  Pollard 
works  for  Ralph  L.  Woolpert  &  Co.,  Dayton, 
Ohio.  ...  On  the  retired  list  is  Lawrence  J. 
Sarkozy,  who  had  been  a  district  sales 
manager  for  the  Fenn  Mfg.  Co.  in  Newing- 
ton,  Conn. 

1933 

Alexander  L.  Alves  has  been  elected  chair- 
man of  the  board  and  chief  officer  at  En- 
gineered Sinterings  and  Plastics  Co.,  Inc.,  in 
Watertown,  Conn.  He  had  been  president  of 
the  company  since  it  was  founded  in  1954. 
Under  his  guidance  the  firm  has  grown  from 
eight  employees  and  sales  of  $109,733  to  a 
current  work  force  of  135  and  sales  of  over 
$4.5  million  annually.  His  company  manufac- 
tures gears,  cams,  clutches  and  pole  pieces 
for  the  electrical  industry.    .  .  .  Frank  Eaton 
retired  in  January  after  19  years  at  Hamilton 
Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn.  He  was  a 
senior  designer  in  environmental  control  sys- 
tems and  was  involved  in  design  of  equip- 
ment for  the  747,  L-1011  and  other  aircraft. 
He  also  worked  on  projects  for  the  lunar 
module.  The  Eatons,  who  have  four  children 
and  two  grandchildren,  recently  returned 
from  a  two-month  vacation  visiting  their 
daughter  in  Jupiter,  Fla.  They  intend  to  con- 
centrate on  gardening  and  traveling  during 
the  retirement  years.    .  .  .  Robert  W.  Fulton 
has  completed  forty  years  with  the  Factory 
Insurance  Association  of  Hartford,  Conn.  He 
was  the  company's  senior  engineer  in  Port- 
land, Me.,  and  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  Maine  and  Massachusetts. 
.  .  .  William  A.  Slagle  is  with  the  Massachu- 
setts Division  of  Water  Pollution  Control  in 
Boston. 

1934 

G.  Standish  Beebe  serves  as  construction 
manager  at  Pfizer,  Inc.,  New  York  City. 
.  .  .  Kenneth  E.  Bennett  is  retired  but  keep- 
ing busy  with  a  small  chair  reseating  busi- 
ness. He  writes  that  his  older  daughter,  Kay, 
is  a  teacher  and  that  his  younger  one,  Freda, 
is  a  top  student  at  Drew  University. 

1935 

William  E.  Wyman  has  retired  as  a  physical 
science  administrator  at  the  Office  of  the 
Secretary  of  Defense  at  the  Pentagon  in 
Washington,  D.C.  His  son,  Jon,  graduated 
from  WPI  in  May. 


28  WPI  Journal 


1936 

Perry  Clark  recently  celebrated  the  first  an- 
niversary of  doing  business  with  his  own 
firm,  Perry  Clark  Realty  in  St.  Croix,  V.I.  He 
writes:  "Glad  to  see  any  Tech  men  who  may 
get  down  this  way."    .  .  .  Julius  E.  Guild  re- 
tired from  American  Optical  Corp.,  Keene, 
N.H.,  last  December.  Since  the  Guilds'  only 
daughter  and  family  are  in  Washington  State, 
they  expect  to  settle  somewhere  in  the  west 
later  this  year. 

1937 

William  S.  Bushell,  who  was  chief  of  the 
schedules  branch  of  the  National  Airspace 
System  Program  office  (F.A.A.)  in  Washing- 
ton, D.C.,  has  retired.    .  .  .  H.I.  "Red"  John- 
son retired  in  February  from  the  Bethlehem 
Steel  Corp.  after  a  38-year  career  in  the  ship- 
building division  and  fabricated  steel  division. 

1938 

Richard  I.  Gray  is  a  retiree.  He  was  with  the 
Department  of  the  Navy,  Bureau  of  Ships,  in 
Washington,  D.C.    .  .  .  F.H.  Jenkins  works 
for  Phillips  Getschow  Co.,  Chicago,  III. 
.  .  .  Henry  M.  Ritz,  president  of  R&R 
Plumbing  Supply  Corp.  in  Worcester,  recently 
announced  a  $250,000  addition  to  his  existing 
structure.  His  son,  Jesse  Ritz,  entered  the 
family  business  last  June  after  receiving  his 
master's  degree  from  Boston  College.  He  will 
be  the  third  generation  in  the  company  which 
was  started  in  1905  by  Henry's  father. 
...  Dr.  John  B.  Scalzi  works  for  the  Na- 
tional Science  Foundation  in  Washington, 
DC.    ...  Stephen  P.  Stafford  is  with 
Kennecott  Copper  Corp.,  Washington,  D.C. 

Dana  D.  Stratton  retired  from  the  federal 
government  last  November  after  35  years  of 
service  in  the  field  of  naval  aviation.  He 
started  at  the  naval  aircraft  factory  in  Phil- 
adelphia in  1939  and  devoted  his  career  to 
engineering  specifications  for  the  construc- 
tion of  carrier-based  naval  aircraft.  At  the 
time  of  his  retirement,  he  was  the  director  of 
the  Engineering  Specifications  and  Standards 
Department  at  the  Naval  Air  Engineering 
Center,  which  is  now  being  relocated  to 
Lakehurst,  N.J. 

During  his  naval  career  he  was  a  member 
of  the  Council  for  Military  Aircraft  Standards 
and  the  Navy  liaison  representative  on  the 
National  Aerospace  Standards  Committee. 
Much  of  the  work  he  did  during  World  War  II 
contributed  to  the  establishment  of  the  De- 
partment of  Defense  Standardization  Pro- 
gram. He  is  a  member  of  the  Standards  En- 
gineers Society  and  the  Naval  Civilian  Ad- 
ministrators Association.  His  name  is  listed  in 
the  Federal  Roster  of  Key  Scientists  and  En- 
gineers. 

At  a  banquet  in  his  honor  he  was  awarded 
the  Meritorious  Civilian  Service  Award  and 
the  Navy  Outstanding  Service  Award.  The 
Strattons'  son,  Wayne,  graduated  as  an  elec- 
trical engineer  from  WPI  this  year. 


1939 

Thomas  F.  Beatty,  Jr.  is  now  an  estimator 
for  GTE  Sylvania  in  Needham  Heights,  Mass. 
.  .  .  James  H.  Bryson  is  associated  with  the 
Chandler  Glass  Co.,  Inc.,  West  Springfield, 
Mass.    .  .  .  Allan  H.  Chase,  who  was  with 
Procter  &  Gamble,  Cincinnati,  Ohio  for  35 
years,  recently  retired.  The  Chases  hope  to 
relocate  on  Cape  Cod.    .  .  .  E.B.  Crabtree  is 
assistant  sales  manager  at  Bryant  Grinder 
Corp.,  Springfield,  Vt.    ...  Gleason  W. 
Jewett  works  for  J.W.  Miller  Aviation  in 
Marble  Falls,  Texas.    .  .  .  Edwin  L  Kiem  has 
retired.  He  was  a  mathematics  teacher  at 
Warrington  Middle  School,  Warrington,  Fla. 
.  .  .  Another  retiree  is  Edwin  M.  Moggio, 
who  had  been  an  aerospace  technologist  for 
NASA.    .  .  .  John  T.  Rushton  is  with 
Harvey  Engineering  &  Mfg.  Corp.  in  Hot 
Springs,  Arkansas. 

1940 

Married:  Rolfe  Johnson  to  Miss  Margaret 
Morris  in  Cheshire,  England,  on  August  31, 
1974.  The  bride  is  a  nurse.  Currently  Johnson 
is  a  resident  engineer  working  on  the  con- 
struction of  a  plastics  plant  in  Grangemouth, 
Stirlingshire,  in  Scotland.  The  Johnsons  tour 
Britain  and  the  continent  as  often  as  possible 
on  their  new  BMW  750  motorcycle. 

Dr.  Clayton  H.  Allen  is  president  of  the 
Clayton  H.  Allen  Corp.,  Cambridge,  Mass. 
The  consulting  and  development  engineering 
firm  is  concerned  with  acoustics  and  noise 
control.    .  .  .  S.  Carlton  Dickerman,  who 
retired  in  1973  from  active  duty  at  New  York 
University,  has  been  named  a  Professor 
Emeritus  of  chemistry.  He  served  as  the  last 
chairman  of  the  department  of  chemistry  in 
University  College  of  New  York  University. 
(This  campus  is  now  the  home  of  Bronx 
Community  College.)  The  Dickermans  are 
currently  located  in  a  lovely  home  on  ten 
acres  in  Lyme,  Conn,  and  write  that  they 
-"don't  miss  the  city  one  bit." 

Clark  Goodchild  has  received  his  master's 
degree  in  engineering  management  from 
Northeastern  University,  after  an  unfortunate 
year  in  1974.  He  had  jury  duty  during  a 
murder  trial;  had  his  appendix  and  gall  blad- 
der removed;  suffered  two  heart  attacks  and 
a  bout  of  phlebitis.  He  finally  was  able  to  re- 
turn to  work  in  March.    .  .  .  Sumner  Meisel- 
man  has  joined  the  Truck-Trailer  Manufac- 
turs'  Association  in  Washington,  D.C. 
.  .  .  Frederick  B.  Miller  is  with  Dale  John- 
son Travel  Agency  in  San  Jose,  Calif.    .  .  . 
Presently  Richard  E.  Ryan  is  a  certified  life 
underwriter  at  John  Hancock  Life  Insurance 
Co.,  Falls  Church,  Va.    ...  Sidney  E.  Scott 
works  as  a  sales  engineer  with  Electrolux  in 
Hyannis,  Mass.,  where  he  is  also  in  real 
estate.    .  .  .  James  I.  Thurston  is  general 
manager  at  Waite's  Industrial,  Worcester. 


1941 

K.  Blair  Benson  has  been  named  vice  presi- 
dent of  engineering  for  Goldmark  Communi- 
cations Corp.,  Stamford,  Conn.  He  will  head 
the  firm's  engineering  activities  including 
divisions  involving  pay  and  cable  TV.  He  has 
been  with  Goldmark  since  1972.  .  .  .  Francis 
J.  Boyle  is  a  senior  project  engineer  at  Ben- 
dix  Aviation  in  Kansas  City,  Mo.    .  .  .  Robert 

E.  Dean's  daughter,  Julie,  is  currently  with 
the  Peace  Corps  in  the  Philippines.    .  .  . 
Anton  J.  West  is  a  self-employed  income 
tax  consultant  in  Bethel  Park,  Pa. 

1942 

Walter  K.  Deacon  holds  the  post  of  presi- 
dent at  Servonic  Instrumentation  Division  of 
Gulton  Industries,  Inc.,  Costa  Mesa,  Calif. 
.  .  .  Harvey  W.  Maurice  owns  Ramseyer 
and  Miller,  Inc.,  engineering  consultants  in 
Butler,  Pa.    ...  William  H.  Moulton  is  chief 
industrial  engineer  at  Anaconda  Wire  &  Cable 
in  Sycamore,  III.    .  .  .  David  Nyquist  serves 
as  superintendent  at  Lykes-Youngstown 
Corp.,  Chicago.    .  .  .  Charles  P.  Powell  is  a 
design  engineer  at  Rockwell  International, 
Acme  Chain  Division,  Hopedale,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Frederick  W.  Schneider  works  at 
Parkersburg  (W.  Va.)  Community  College. 

1943 

George  F.  Fairhurst  holds  the  position  of 
executive  vice  president  of  the  Northridge 
Hospital  Development  Association  in  North- 
ridge, Calif.    .  .  .  Carl  E.  Hartbower  is  now 
with  the  Federal  Highway  Department  in 
Washington,  D.C.    .  .  .  Lt.  Col.  Charles  A. 
Jenkins,  Jr.,  who  has  retired  from  the  U.S. 
Air  Force,  is  now  a  self-employed  periodon- 
tist in  Tuscon,  Arizona.    .  .  .  James  L. 
Loomis,  Jr.,  works  for  Fryer  Corp.,  Oxford, 
Conn. 

1944 

Glen  R.  Betz  retired  in  June.  He  had  been 
general  supervisor  of  process  engineering  for 
Frigidaire  in  Dayton,  Ohio.    .  .  .  T.A.  Bombi- 
cino  is  manager  of  manufacturing  and  en- 
gineering at  Allied  Products  Corp.,  New 
Haven,  Conn.    .  .  .  Sherman  B.  Campbell 
currently  serves  as  chief  industrial  engineer  at 
Champion  Products,  Perry,  N.Y.    .  .  .  Alfred 

F.  Larkin,  Jr.,  is  president  of  the  Inter- 
national Group  at  Rexnord,  Inc.,  Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin.    .  .  .  Arthur  P.  Pingalore,  direc- 
tor of  training  at  Cincinnati-Milacron,  Heald 
Machine  Division,  Worcester,  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  a  five-year  term  on  the  advisory 
board  at  Anna  Maria  College,  Paxton,  Mass. 

.  .  .  George  D.  Williams  is  a  project  en- 
gineer for  NEGEA  Service  in  Cambridge, 
Mass. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  29 


1945 

William  C.  Howard,  vice  president  of  the 
Abrasives  Marketing  Group  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  was  recently  elected  a  member  of 
the  executive  committee  of  the  American 
Supply  and  Machinery  Manufacturers'  As- 
sociation, Inc.  He  has  been  a  member  of 
various  ASMMA  committees  in  the  past.  The 
association  has  500  members  which  are 
manufacturers  of  a  wide  variety  of  products 
used  in  industry.  .  .  .  Roger  N.  Perry,  Jr., 
public  relations  director  at  WPI,  has  been 
elected  to  the  New  England  district  executive 
committee  of  the  Council  for  the  Support 
and  Advancement  of  Education  (CASE). 
CASE  is  a  new  organization  created  by  the 
1974  merger  of  the  American  College  Public 
Relations  Association  and  the  American 
Alumni  Council.    .  .  .  James  J.  Shea  is  a 
project  leader  at  the  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Commission  in  Bethesda,  Md. 

Roger  Roberge's  consulting  engineering 
firm,  Roberge  &  McGrath,  Inc.,  of  Lexington, 
Mass.,  has  been  named  a  winner  of  the  1975 
annual  award  for  engineering  excellence  pre- 
sented by  the  Consulting  Engineers  Council 
of  New  England.  The  award  was  given  to  the 
company  for  its  environmental  energy  con- 
servation design  of  the  Billerica  (Mass.)  High 
School  addition.  Through  unique  reuse  of 
energy  and  its  conservation,  the  new  addition 
will  have  minimal  operating  costs  and  con- 
struction costs  will  be  25  percent  less  than 
planned,  the  firm  reports. 

Included  in  the  design  is  a  mechanical  sys- 
tem which  provides  separate  air  supply  and 
air  conditioning  components  for  each  fifteen 
feet  of  exterior  wall.  Heated  or  chilled  water  is 
circulated  to  these  units  as  needed.  Refrig- 
eration machinery  being  driven  at  slow  speed 
and  fueled  with  natural  gas  and  heat  recovery 
devices  capture  60  percent  of  the  heat  need- 
ed to  make  ice,  hot  water,  and  to  cool  and 
heat  the  building.  Overall,  heat  energy  use 
was  cut  by  40  percent  and  construction  costs 
were  held  to  $26  per  square  foot. 

Albert  P.  Talboys  holds  the  post  of  pro- 
ject manager  at  the  Pan  American  Health 
Organization  in  Port-of-Spain,  Trinidad.  He 
retired  as  chief  engineer  for  International 
Health  in  the  U.S.  Public  Health  Service  last 
year. 


1946 

Currently  Richard  H.  Ackley  is  with  the 
electromagnetic  systems  division  of  Raytheon 
in  Goleta,  Calif.  .  .  .  Robert  D.  Bartlett 
works  for  Hobart  Corp.,  Kansas  City,  Kansas. 
Robert  E    Boddorff  has  been  named  direc 
tor  of  the  specialty  products  division  of  the 
coatings  and  specialty  products  department 
at  Hercules,  Incorporated.  He  began  working 
for  the  company  as  a  research  chemist  fol 
lowing  graduation.  He  has  served  as  a  tech- 
nical representative  in  the  firm's  Chicago 
office,  senior  technical  sales  representative, 
and  manager  of  the  Houston  office  in  the 
coatings  and  specialty  products  department. 
He  became  assistant  director  of  marketing  of 
the  department  in  1971  and  director  of  sales 
'or  specialty  products  in  1973 

Richard  Galuhn  works  for  the  Los  Angeles 
County  Facilities  Department  Robert  S 

Gamble  is  with  New  England  Petrochemical 
in  New  York  City  Theodore  E    Gazda 


serves  as  projects  manager  at  Fluor  Engineers 
&  Constructors,  Inc.,  in  Commerce,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Judge  Ernest  S.  Hayeck  of  Worcester's 
Central  District  Court  has  been  named  the 
1975  recipient  of  the  Beth  Israel  Brotherhood 
Good  Neighbor  Award  ....  Robert  C. 
Manahan  is  now  group  manager  of  market- 
ing services  at  Johns-Manville  Corp.,  Arling- 
ton, Va.  .  .  .  I.T.  "Tom"  McDonald  has 
been  appointed  manager  of  the  new  Deltona 
office  of  the  First  Federal  Savings  and  Loan 
Association  of  Daytona  Beach,  Fla.  He  joined 
the  association  last  year  as  a  loan  counselor 
in  the  DeLand  office.  He  retired  with  the 
rank  of  colonel  from  the  U.S.  Air  Force  in 
1973,  completing  31  years  of  military  service. 
At  the  time  of  his  retirement,  he  was  chief  of 
the  policy  and  plans  division  for  Air  Force 
Intelligence  in  Washington. 

John  C.  Meade  is  a  technical  representative 
at  Ashland  Chemical  Co.  in  Commerce,  Calif. 
.  .  .  Richard  H.  Merritt,  a  senior  product 
engineer  and  manager  of  abrasive  machining 
for  Bay  State  Abrasives  in  Westboro,  Mass., 
participated  as  a  session  leader  at  the  1975 
ASAM  International  Technical  Conference 
and  Exhibition  held  in  Chicago  last  May.  His 
topic  was  "A  Decade  of  Abrasive  Machining 
-  So  What?"  .  .  .  Presently  Walter  O. 
Muller  is  plant  manager  at  the  Chevrolet 
gear  and  axle  plant  in  Detroit,  Michigan.  .  .  . 
Joseph  F.  Pofit  is  assistant  chief  engineer  at 
Crane  Co.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Arthur 
P.  Rosenquest  serves  as  president  of  Dust 
Vent,  Inc.,  Addison,  III.  .  .  .  Herbert  H. 
Slaughter,  Jr.  has  retired.  He  was  chief  of 
the  engineering  and  manufacturing  division  of 
the  Federal  Aviation  Administration  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.  .  .  .  John  L.  Wilki,  Jr.  is  presi- 
dent of  CVM  Corp.,  an  air  pollution  control 
business,  at  406  Philadelphia  Pike,  Wilming- 
ton, Deleware.  .  .  .  Robert  E.  Willis  serves 
as  area  manager  for  General  Electric  in 
Omaha,  Neb. 


1948 

Robert  W.  Henderson,  vice  president  of 
marketing  for  Rodney  Hunt  Company, 
Orange,  Mass.,  has  been  elected  a  director  of 
the  firm.  He  joined  the  company  in  1956  as 
an  application  engineer  in  the  water  control 
equipment  division.  Later  he  was  a  manager, 
vice  president,  and  marketing  head.  .  .  . 
Frank  S.  Holby  works  in  the  Apollo  System 
Space  Division  of  General  Electric  in  Hunts- 
ville,  Alabama.  .  .  .  William  T.  Nurney  is  on 
a  temporary  assignment  as  a  group  leader  for 
the  Mitre  Corp.  in  Houston,  Texas. 


1949 

Paul  H.  Beaudry  is  project  manager  at  IBM- 
Real  Estate  &  Construction  Division  in 
Austin,  Texas.  .  .  .  Russell  F.  Bradlaw,  a 
project  engineer  for  the  Turner  Construction 
Co.,  was  in  Saigon  in  April.  He  reports  that 
he  saw  no  panic,  no  looting,  and  no  anti- 
foreigner  attitude.  Currently  he  is  engaged  in 
building  a  $40  million  apartment  complex  in 
Hong  Kong.  Called  Mei  Foo  Sun  Chuen,  the 
complex  is  probably  the  world's  largest  pri- 
vately financed  housing  project.  It  will 
comprise  some  100  twenty-story  blocks 
housing  up  to  90,000  people  in  13,000  apart- 
ments. Previously  he  had  helped  to  build  a 
$10  million  water  treatment  plant  for  Turner 
Construction  in  Saigon. 

In  March  Philip  G.  Buffinton  was  ap- 
pointed vice  president  and  secretary  and 
chief  administrative  officer  of  the  State  Farm 
Fire  and  Casualty  Company  in  Bloomington, 
III.  .  . .  Samuel  E.  Franc,  Jr.  writes  that  he  is 
now  a  real  estate  salesman  for  Country 
Homes  Real  Estate  in  Danville,  Calif.  Marcia 
is  in  the  eighth  grade  and  Susan,  the  sixth. 
Betty  works  for  Social  Security.  .  .  .  Donald 
Taylor  holds  the  post  of  president  of  the 
Nordberg  Machinery  Group  at  Rexnord,  Inc., 
in  Milwaukee,  Wisconsin. 

James  B.  Morin,  who  had  been  a  captain 
in  the  U.S.  Navy,  was  promoted  to  Rear  Ad- 
miral in  ceremonies  held  at  the  Naval  Base  in 
Norfolk,  Va.  last  May.  He  is  the  deputy  direc- 
tor of  the  National  Military  Command  Center, 
Joint  Chiefs  of  Staff,  Washington,  D.C.  He 
won  his  wings  in  1948.  As  commanding 
officer  of  Attack  Squadron  155  on  the  carrier 
USS  Coral  Sea  in  1965,  he  flew  157  combat 
missions  over  North  Viet  Nam.  He  was 
awarded  a  Distinguished  Flying  Cross  during 
one  of  those  missions  when  he  attempted  a 
rescue.  He  has  commanded  the  amphibious 
transport  USS  LaSalle  and  the  carrier,  USS 
Franklin  D.  Roosevelt.  His  decorations  include 
two  DFC's,  the  Bronze  Star  Medal,  two  Meri- 
torious Service  Medals,  eighteen  Air  Medals, 
and  three  navy  Commendation  Medals. 

1950 

Robert  O.  Budd  is  manager  of  plant  safety 
at. Westinghouse-Hanford  Co.,  in  Richland, 
Washington.  He  is  married,  has  three 
children,  and  is  a  member  of  the  city  of  Rich- 
land Ecology  Commission.  .  .  .  Robert  L. 
Moison  operates  Robert  L.  Moison  &  Asso- 
ciates, Inc.,  Apple  Valley,  Minn.  .  .  .  Jere- 
miah P.  O'Neil  has  been  appointed  manager 
of  energy  utilization  by  Nabisco,  Inc.,  New 
York  City.  .  .  .  Richard  C.  Pieper  is  senior 
vice  president  and  general  manager  at  Bently 
Nevada  Corp.,  Minden,  Nevada.  ...  Eli  S. 
Sanderson  has  been  appointed  manager  of 
planning  and  control  for  engineering  and  con- 
struction services  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester. 
He  has  been  with  Norton  since  1950  and  has 
served  as  supervisor  of  industrial  engineering 
and  most  recently  as  manager  of  facilities 
and  services.  He  is  a  registered  professional 
engineer. 


30      August  1971       WPI  Journal 


1951 

Phillip  G.  Blair  is  plant  engineer  at  Paper 
Products,  Inc.,  Long  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  Dexter 
Cate  has  been  promoted  from  project  engi- 
neer, custom  systems,  to  manager  of  quality 
control  at  Fairbanks  Weighing  Division,  Colt 
Industries,  St.  Johnsbury,  Vt.  In  his  new 
assignment  he  is  responsible  for  all  the  in- 
spection and  test  done  in  the  division.  .  .  . 
Walter  J.  Kolodne  has  joined  Titan  Atlantic 
Construction  Corp.  in  Towson,  Md. 


1952 

Currently  Harold  R.  Althen  is  vice  president 
of  sales  at  the  Mikropul  Division  of  United 
States  Filter  Corp.  in  Summit,  N.J.  .  .  .  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Bruce  Campbell  and  Ojars  Si- 
larais,  '65,  recently  co-hosted  a  farewell  par- 
ty honoring  the  Wayne  L.  Pierces,  '68,  who 
are  moving  from  Louisiana  to  New  Jersey. 
All  three  alumni  lived  in  a  500-ft.  circle  in  the 
same  apartment  building  overlooking  the 
same  swimming  pool  until  Pierce  was  trans- 
ferred. The  trio  met  again  at  Pier  4  in  Boston 
on  May  31st. 

Lex  Carroll,  president  of  Carroll  Chevrolet, 
Inc.,  West  Brookfield,  Mass.,  was  recently  re- 
appointed manager  of  the  National  and 
World  Competitive  Water  Ski  Team  for  1975 
by  the  American  Water  Ski  Association.  The 
team  will  compete  in  the  World  Champion- 
ships in  London,  England,  in  September. 
Carroll  was  originally  appointed  to  the  post  in 
1973  when  the  World  Championships  were 
held  in  Bogota,  Columbia.  He  has  been  water 
skiing  for  30  years,  becoming  well  known  as 
an  all  around  show  skier,  barefooter,  and  kite 
flyer.  He  is  the  founder  of  the  Lake  Wicka- 
boag  Ski  Club  in  West  Brookfield  and  co- 
founder  of  the  Central  New  England  Water 
Ski  Association.  He  and  his  wife  became 
noted  in  North  and  Latin  America  in  the 
1950s  for  their  competitive  skiing  and  were 
the  East's  top  representatives  in  regional  and 
mixed  doubles  competition.  They  achieved  an 
overall  record  that  may  never  be  surpassed. 

1953 

Richard  A.  Davis,  president  of  the  Thermos 
Division  of  King-Seeley  Thermos  Co., 
Norwich,  Conn.,  has  been  named  to  the  Nor- 
wich Advisory  Board  of  Hartford  National 
Bank  &  Trust  Co.  .  .  .  Dr.  Robert  Fitz- 
gerald, associate  professor  of  civil  engi- 
neering at  WPI,  was  the  keynote  speaker  at 
the  Connecticut  State  Fire  Officers'  Con- 
ference held  in  May  in  Meriden,  Conn.  .  .  . 
George  A.  Garrison,  SIM,  is  now  vice 
president  of  manufacturing  at  Anderson 
Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Thomas  R.  LaCrosse 
serves  as  manager  of  computer  programming 
in  the  oceanic  division  at  Westinghouse 
Electric  Corp.,  Annapolis,  Md.  .  .  .  John  E. 
Leach,  who  continues  with  E.I.  duPont  de 
Nemours,  is  currently  plant  manager  in  San 
Francisco,  Calif.  ..  .    Dale  E.  Westbrook  is 
chief,  quality  control  group,  for  Marine  Data 
Systems  Program,  National  Ocean  Survey, 
Rockville,  Md. 


1954 

Leslie  W.  Johnston,  Jr.  works  for  Singer 
Co.,  Binghamton,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Vahram 
Keshishian  works  for  TRW  Systems  in 
Redondo  Beach,  Calif.  .  .  .  Donald  E.  Ross 
has  been  named  general  manager  of  MPB 
Corporation's  Split  Ballbearing  Division  in 
Lebanon,  N.H.  The  firm  manufactures  high 
precision  ball  and  roller  bearings  for  aircraft, 
materials-handling  equipment,  hydraulic 
pumps,  medical  equipment,  and  machine 
tools.  Ross  is  a  director  of  the  National  Bank 
of  Lebanon  and  a  member  of  the  corporation 
of  Mary  Hitchcock  Memorial  Hospital.  He 
joined  Split  Ballbearing  in  1962  and  had  been 
operations  manager  since  1971.  .  .  .  B. 
Lawrence  Sova  is  with  the  U.S.  Power  & 
Environmental  Branch  in  Aberdeen,  Md. 


1955 

Dr.  Howard  J.  Dworkin  is  presently  chief 
of  the  department  of  nuclear  medicine  at 
William  Beaumont  Hospital  in  Royal  Oak, 
Mich.  .  .  .  R.  Bruce  Brodie  is  a  patent 
attorney  at  IBM  Patent  Operations  in  San 
Jose,  Calif.  .  .  .  Norman  M.  Lawrence 
serves  as  a  planning  and  scheduling  engineer 
for  Allied  Chemical  Corp.,  Morristown,  N.J. 
.  .  Donald  M.  MclMamara  has  been 
appointed  product  manager  of  plasticizers  at 
USS  Chemicals,  a  division  of  U.S.  Steel 
Corporation  in  Pittsburgh,  Pa.  He  will  be  in 
charge  of  the  marketing  and  distribution  of 
plasticizers  and  their  derivatives  internation- 
ally. He  began  his  career  with  the  corporation 
as  a  New  York  sales  representative  in  1963. 
In  1965  he  became  product  manager  for 
dibasic  acids  in  Pittsburgh  and  regional  sales 
manager  for  the  Midwest  four  years  later.  He 
is  a  member  of  the  Society  of  Plastics 
Engineers. 

Patrick  J.  Murphy  is  at  the  Naval  Surface 
Weapons  Center,  Dahlgren,  Va.  .  .  .  Walter 
B.  Power  III  has  been  appointed  by  the 
mayor  to  the  planning  board  in  Salem,  Mass. 
Currently  he  is  serving  as  chairman  of  the 
School  Building  Commission.  He  is  a  reg- 
istered professional  engineer  and  a  senior 
sales  engineer  for  McGraw  Edison,  Power 
Systems  Division.  .  .  .  Howard  D.  Youmans, 
SIM,  now  serves  as  a  sales  manager  at 
Morgan  Construction,  Worcester. 


1957 

Salvatore  H.  Bello  works  for  U.S.  Steel 
Corp.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Robert  F.  Galligan 

was  recently  elected  vice  president  of 
operations  and  secretary  at  Gibbs/Cook 
Equipment  in  Des  Moines,  Iowa.  He  joined 
the  company  in  1964.  .  .  .  Walter  C.  Kress  is 
manager  of  facilities  planning  at  American 
Cyanamid  Co.,  Pace,  Fla.  .  .  .  David  N. 
Olson  operates  D.J.B.  Mobile  Homes  in 
Shingle  Springs,  Calif.  .  .  .  James  F. 
Richards,  general  sales  manager  for  the  R.H. 
Miller  Division  of  Pennwalt  Corp.  in  Homer, 
N.Y.,  wrote  an  article,  "Alkaline  Preclean  to 
Cut  Costs,"  which  appeared  in  the  February 
issue  of  Wire  Journal .  .  .  .  John  O.  Stinson, 
former  hospital  administrator  for  the 
Berkshire  Medical  Center  in  Pittsfield,  Mass., 
has  been  selected  town  manager  in  Hanover, 
N.H.,  from  over  100  applicants.  Previously  he 
was  city  manager  of  Ipswich  and  Saugus, 


Mass.  He  has  an  MBA  from  the  University  of 
Massachusetts. 

Not  long  ago,  Donald  Striby  was  helping 
to  send  men  into  space  at  Cape  Canaveral  as 
a  NASA  launch-test  conductor.  Today  he 
and  his  family  are  literally  living  off  the  land 
on  their  13-acre  farm  in  Rehoboth,  Mass.  The 
Stribys  raise  85  percent  of  what  they  eat, 
including  beef,  poultry,  eggs,  and  vegetables. 
They  also  cut  their  heating  and  light  bills  by 
using  wood  stoves,  kerosene  lamps,  and 
candles.  Just  to  keep  busy,  Striby  does  all  his 
own  plumbing,  electrical  work,  carpentry,  and 
auto  repairs.  On  the  side  he  helps  his  wife 
raise  English  sheep  dogs,  and  he  has  built  her 
a  ceramics  workshop.  Their  sons  bake  and 
help  with  the  chores.  In  spite  of  what  seems 
like  a  'round-the-clock  schedule,  the  Stribys 
claim  their  new  life  is  "a  lot  more  relaxing!" 
.  .  .  Ronald  Wilson  is  a  senior  research 
assistant  at  the  Worcester  Foundation  for  Ex- 
perimental Biology  in  Shrewsbury,  Mass. 


1958 

Foster  Wheeler  Energy  Corporation  has  cur- 
rently assigned  Everett  W.  Angell  to  the 
company  office  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  Brazil.  .  .  . 
Robert  J.  Donegan  works  for  ESL,  Inc., 
Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  .  .  Roy  E.  Handy,  Jr., 
SIM,  has  been  appointed  vice  president  of 
manufacturing  at  Wain-Roy,  Inc.,  Hub- 
bardston,  Mass.  He  is  a  chairman  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  Asnacomet  Federal 
Credit  Union,  a  director  of  the  Hubbardston 
Industrial  Development  Corp.,  and  has  served 
many  years  on  the  Hubbardston  planning 
board  and  industrial  commission.  .  .  . 
Stanley  L.  Green  is  now  with  the  Drug  En- 
forcement Administration  of  the  U.S.  Depart- 
ment of  Justice  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Alan  A.  Miller  holds  the  post  of  planning 
engineer  at  Western  Electric  Co.  in  Winston- 
Salem,  N.C.  He  also  owns  Puppy  Country 
Kennels  and  breeds  and  sells  purebred  pup- 
pies. .  .  .  Ralph  Paganetti  is  with  American 
Science  &  Engineering,  Inc.,  Cambridge, 
Mass. 

The  recent  paintings  of  Bill  Rabinovitch 
were  exhibited  at  the  Rabinovitch  &  Guerra 
Gallery  in  New  York  City  in  April  and  May. 
The  title  painting  of  the  show,  "New  York 
Now,"  expresses  the  artist's  vision  of  New 
York  in  February,  a  city  caught  up  by  its 
energy  and  mobility.  According  to  the  Soho 
Weekly  News,  the  Rabinovitch  &  Guerra 
Gallery,  in  which  Bill  is  a  partner,  "is  a 
meeting  place  for  artists  whose  thrust  is 
aimed  at  expressing  a  visceral  expression  of 
what  is  closest  to  a  given  artist's  most  im- 
mediate concern:  his  inner  life  and  visuali- 
zation thereof." 

Donald  H.  Tompkins  is  a  physicist  with 
the  U.S.  Geological  Survey,  Menlo  Park, 
Calif. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  31 


1959 

Robert  G.  Chadwick  was  recently  promoted 
to  manager  of  the  Torrington  Co.  bearings 
plant  in  Sylvania,  Ga.  He  had  been  manufac- 
turing manager  at  Sylvania  since  1973.  Pre- 
viously he  was  superintendent  of  drawn  cup 
and  thrust  bearings  at  the  Torrington,  Co.  in 
Connecticut.  He  began  his  career  with  the 
company  as  a  project  engineer.  .  .  .  Joseph 
D.  Daddario,  Jr.,  works  for  Sylvania  in 
Waltham,  Mass.  ...  A.  David  Dickert  is 
now  assistant  to  the  vice  president  of  cor- 
porate ventures  at  Rohm  and  Haas  Co., 
Philadelphia,  Pa.  .  .  .  P.D.  Edwards  is  a 
project  manager  at  Chemplex,  Rolling 
Meadows,  III.  .  .  .  James  M.  Lawson,  SIM, 
holds  the  position  of  vice  president  of  O.S. 
Walker  Co.,  Inc.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  Robert  H. 
Lynn  left  the  Raytheon  Company  last 
October  and  joined  the  engineering  firm  of 
Chas.  T.  Main,  Inc.,  in  Boston.  He  serves  as 
client  relations  manager  for  the  industrial 
division,  with  offices  in  the  Prudential  Center. 
The  Lynns,  who  reside  in  Framingham,  have 
three  children:  Heidi,  8;  Eric,  6;  and  Craig 
who  is  4.  .  .  .  Robert  V.  Sharkey  is  now  the 
owner  of  Shark's  Marine  in  Keene,  N.H.  He 
sells  Mercury  outboards,  Mercruisers,  and 
snowmobiles.  He  is  also  a  dealer  for  Glastron 
ski  and  sportsboats;  Starcraft  fishing  boats, 
and  runabouts;  canoes;  sailboats;  and  marine 
hardware.  "Since  moving  to  New  Hamp- 
shire," Bob  reports,  "I've  had  a  chance  to  do 
some  fishing  which  I  hadn't  had  time  to  do  in 
nearly  20  years." 

1960 

Joshua  C.  Alpern  is  with  the  U.S.  Army 
Scientific  Liaison  &•  Advisory  Group  in  Wash- 
ington, DC.  .     .  William  K.  Bonta  is  deputy 
director  of  air  quality  control  for  the  Maryland 
State  Department  of  Health  in  Baltimore.  .  .  . 
Donaldson  A.  Dow  works  as  a  senior  struc- 
tural engineer  at  Perry  Ocean  Engineering, 
Inc.,  Riviera  Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  Russell  A. 
Fransen  is  with  Luchs  &  Beckerman  in 
Glastonbury,  Conn.  .  .  .  Currently  Richard  L. 
Gess  works  at  Ketron,  Inc.,  Warminster,  Pa.  . 

Stephen  J.  Hewick  is  a  bridge  engineer 
at  Lewis  Berger  Co.,  East  Orange,  N.J.  .  .  . 
Paul  W    Kendra,  Jr.,  serves  as  a  senior 
systems  analyst  at  General  Electric  Co., 
Arlington,  Va.  .  .  .  Stuart  P.  Roberts  writes 
that  his  wife  passed  away  on  March  2  fol- 
lowing a  brief  illness.  ...  Dr.  Charles  A. 
Stevens  is  associate  dean  at  Southern  Tech- 
nical Institute  in  Marietta,  Ga.  .  .  .  Derin  K. 
Turkomer  serves  as  assistant  general 
manager  for  Turyag  AS  in  Izmir,  Turkey.  .  .  . 
Stanley  C   Wells,  Jr.,  is  now  assistant  to 
the  director  of  research  and  development  for 
N.D.M.  Corp..  Dayton,  Ohio.  He  directs 
engineering  for  the  extrusion  and  injection 
molding  of  medical  products  as  well  as  ma- 
terials engineering. 


1961 

Married:  Robert  A.  Weiss  to  Miss  Bonnie 
Joan  Geller  of  Milton,  Massachusetts  last 
August.  Mrs.  Weiss  is  a  teacher  at  Needham 
High  School.  Her  husband  was  recently 
named  production  and  inventory  control 
manager  for  Grinnell  Fire  Protection  Systems 
Co.  of  Rhode  Island  and  is  located  in 
Providence. 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gerald  E.  Kukle- 
wicz,  a  second  son,  Andrew  Train,  on  Febru- 
ary 5,  1975.  Gerry  is  a  sales  engineer  for 
General  Electric  Co.  and  sells  central  air  con- 
ditioning and  heating. 

Brad  Cushing  left  the  G.E.  Knolls  Atomic 
Power  Laboratory  in  Schenectady,  N.Y.  last 
August  and  now  works  as  a  project  engineer 
for  Enviroengineering,  Inc.,  a  division  of  H.V. 
Weeks,  Inc.,  located  in  Somerville,  N.J.  The 
consulting  firm  specializes  in  all  phases  of 
pollution  control.  Brad  and  his  wife,  Mary, 
have  an  18-month  old  son,  Terence.  .  .  . 
Roger  E.  Faulk  works  for  Travelers  Insur- 
ance Co.,  Product  Management  Division, 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  William  H.  Gill  is 
currently  director  of  environmental  services  at 
Development  and  Resources  Corporation, 
Sacramento,  Calif.  .  .  .  Robert  R.  Hale  works 
for  the  Optical  Radiation  Corp.  in  Azusa, 
Calif.  .  .  .  Arthur  Kroll  has  joined  Fairbanks 
Weighing  Division  of  Colt  Industries  in  St. 
Johnsbury,  Vt.  as  manager  of  product  devel- 
opment. Formerly  he  was  engineering 
manager  for  commercial  products  at  EDMAC 
Associates  in  Fairport,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Thomas  P. 
Lopresti  is  now  a  health  industry  analyst  for 
IBM,  health  industry  development,  Des 
Plaines,  III.  .  .  .  Richard  H.  Nelson  holds  the 
post  of  principal  engineer  at  Harris  Corp., 
Electric  Systems  Division,  Melbourne,  Fla. 

Normand   L.   Noel   is  district   manager  of 
sales  engineering  at  Gilbane  Building  Co., 
Lanham,  Md.  .  .  .  John  F.  Ogorzalek  has 
completed  work  for  his  Juris  Doctor  degree 
at  Western  State  University  and  will  take  the 
bar  exam  this  summer.  He  is  works  manager 
at  Tenneco  Chemicals,  Inc.  in  Long  Beach, 
Calif.  .  .  .  Thomas  J.  Pearsall  works  at 
Quantum,  Inc.,  Wallingford,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Pierce  "Ned"  Rowe  serves  as  division 
manager  at  Burke  Concrete  Accessories,  Inc., 
South  San  Francisco,  Calif.  .  .  .  Edward  A. 
Sundburg  has  been  appointed  product 
engineering  manager  of  armor  and  Spec 
tramic  products  in  the  Industrial  Ceramics 
Division  at  Norton,  Co.,  Worcester.  He  joined 
Norton  in  1964.  .  .     Kenneth  J.  Virkus  is  a 
senior  research  chemist  at  General  Cable 
Corporation  in  Union,  N.J. 

1962 

Dr.  Charles  F.  Belanger,  Jr.,  is  now  at  the 
University  of  Massachusetts  Medical  School 
in  Worcester.  .  .  .  Bradford  J.  Booker 
serves  as  a  senior  analysis  engineer  with 
United  Aircraft's  Power  Utility  Division  in 
South  Windsor,  Conn.  .  .  .  Currently  Robert 
C.  Clark  is  with  Monsanto  Chemical  Co.  in 
Indian  Orchard,  Mass.     .   Giacomo  Corvini 
has  joined  the  sales  office  of  the  molecular 
sieve  department  at  Union  Carbide  Corp.,  in 
Tulsa,  Oklahoma.     .  .  Sharad  S.  Gandbhir 
has  been  named  a  senior  process  engineer  at 
Stone  it  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  in 
Boston    In  1967  he  started  work  at  the 

my  ;is  an  engineer.  .        Robert  H.  Hall 


is  now  the  manager  of  the  new  product  de- 
velopment and  technical  services  department 
at  New  England  High  Carbon  Wire  Corp., 
Millbury,  Mass.  He  joined  the  company  in 
1962  and  served  as  research  metallurgist 
before  being  promoted  to  chief  metallurgist  in 
1968. 

George  W.  Holman  is  with  Holman  Engi- 
neering, Inc.,  Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Presently  David  N.  Lyons  holds  the  post  of 
chief  of  the  compliance  branch  of  Water  En- 
forcement at  EPA  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Michael  E.  Rafferty  was  recently  named 
manager  of  the  Boston  operation  and  vice 
president  of  BSC  Engineering,  Inc.,  Boston 
survey  consultants.  .  .  .  John  C.  Rupprecht 
works  for  R.B.  Richardson  Co.,  Royal  Oaks, 
Mich.  .  .  .  Jerome  R.  Temchin  is  chief, 
statistical  analysis  support,  at  the  Federal 
Energy  Administration  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  . 
Currently  Walker  T.  Thompson  serves  as 
associate  manager  of  inventory  planning  and 
control  at  Union  Carbide  Corp.  in  Charleston, 
W.  Va.  .  .  .  John  M.  Wallace  is  with 
Wallace  &  Wallace,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Raymond  B.  Wilson,  Jr.  works  for  QEI, 
Inc.,  Computer  &  Information  Systems, 
Bedford,  Mass. 

1963 

Robert  J.  Craig  has  been  employed  by 
Hydrospace-Challenger,  Inc.,  in  Rockville,  Md. 
.  .  .  Stephen  D.  Donahue,  Jr.,  who  is  with 
Procter  &  Gamble,  is  now  located  in  Madrid, 
Spain.  .  .  .  Thomas  M.  Donegan  was  re- 
cently made  director  of  international  devel- 
opment for  Hughes  AirWest  in  San  Mateo, 
Calif.  Currently  he  is  directing  aviation  assis- 
tance programs  in  Nepal,  Burma,  Liberia,  and 
Mauritania.  His  most  recent  contract, 
concluded  in  January,  was  with  Saudi  Arabia 
for  the  establishment  of  an  "instant"  domes- 
tic airline.  .  .  .  Robert  J.  Hermes,  SIM, 
works  as  a  sales  manager  at  Birdsboro  Corp., 
Birdsboro,  Pa.  .  .  .  Dr.  Allen  H.  Hoffman 
has  been  promoted  to  associate  professor  in 
the  mechanical  engineering  department  at 
WPI.  He  joined  the  teaching  staff  in  1964,  did 
postgraduate  study  at  Case  Institute  of  Tech- 
nology, and  received  his  PhD  from  the  Uni- 
versity of  Colorado.  He  has  had  industrial 
experience  with  Shell  Oil  Co.  Riley  Stoker 
Corp.,  and  General  Electric  Co. 

Dr.  Peter  F.  Lilienthal  II  is  a  research  leader 
at  Western  Electric  Co.,  Princeton,  N.J.  .  .  . 
James  J.  Magaldi  serves  as  a  plant  engi- 
neer at  ITEK-Uniuis  Optical,  Guayama,  Puerto 
Rico.  .  .  .  Henry  Schroeder  is  a  senior  sys- 
tems programmer  at  Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co.  .  .  . 
Currently  Major  James  A.  Velezis  is  deputy 
chief  of  staff  for  the  U.S.  Department  of  the 
Army  at  the  Pentagon  in  Washington,  D.C.  . 

Harold  H.  Wright  holds  the  post  of 
district  sales  engineer  at  Wer  Industrial  in 
North  Reading,  Mass. 


32  WPI  Journal 


1964 

Donald  A.  Ghiz  is  operations  superintendent 
at  Continental  Oil  Co.,  Westlake,  La.  .  .  . 
Gerald  A.  Gutman  is  now  vice  president  of 
marketing  for  Communication  Associates  of 
Huntington  Station,  N.Y.  The  company 
manufactures  HF/SSB  radio  systems.  .  .  . 
Terrance  B.  Harris  has  been  transferred  to 
Union  Carbide's  Tarrytown,  N.Y.  site  where 
he  is  now  assistant  export  marketing 
manager  for  the  molecular  sieve  department. 
To  date  his  travels  have  taken  him  to  Brazil, 
South  Africa,  and  Mexico,  with  tentative  trips 
to  Europe  and  Japan  in  the  offing.  .  .  .  Philip 
Johnson  works  at  Gould,  Inc.,  Plantsville, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Earle  Megathlin,  Jr.  works  for 
Robert  E.  Owen  &  Associates,  West  Palm 
Beach,  Fla.  .  .  .  Bruce  A.  Ochieano  holds 
the  post  of  treasurer  at  Advanced  Micro 
Devices,  Sunnyvale,  Calif.  .  .  .  Leo  Pluswick 
is  currently  an  electronic  engineer  at  Ft. 
Meade,  Md. 

Robert    W.    Wehrli,     MNS,    teaches    at 
Gallaudet  College  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Currently  William  R.  Phillips  is  superinten- 
dent of  finishing.  Organic  Products,  at  Norton 
Co.,  Worcester.  .  .  .  William  S.  Shurbet 
now  serves  as  administrative  manager  in  the 
Bureau  of  the  Budget  in  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
William  S.  Swiger  works  at  Project  Soft- 
ware &  Development,  Inc.,  in  Cambridge, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Louis  A.  Wargo  is  with  State 
National  Bank  in  Bridgeport,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Seymour  Williams  III  serves  as  a  program 
manager  at  Computer  Sciences  Corp.,  Falls 
Church,  Va. 

1965 

Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  H.  Cahill,  a 
daughter,  Emma,  on  April  23,  1975.  Cahill  is 
with  Hilti  Fastening  Systems,  Stamford, 
Conn.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Robert  Juckins, 
their  first  child,  a  son,  Christopher  Anthony, 
on  March  16,  1974.  Bob  is  with  the  R  &  D 
Department  at  Wyman-Gordon  in  Millbury, 
Mass. 

David  S.  Clayton  has  been  named  assistant 
to  the  chairman  of  Piper,  Jaffray  & 
Hopwood,  Inc.,  a  Minneapolis-based  secur- 
ities firm.  He  joined  the  firm's  corporate 
finance  department  in  1972  and  was  elected  a 
vice  president  in  1973.  Previously  he  was  with 
the  First  California  Company  and  the  Wor- 
cester County  National  Bank  where  he  was  a 
computer  programmer  and  systems  analyst. 
From  1966  to  1970  he  was  an  instructor  in 
math  and  reactor  physics  and  a  department 
head  at  the  U.S.  Naval  Power  School  in 
Vallejo,  Calif. 

Charles  J.  DeSimone  has  been  named 
senior  corporate  finance  officer  at  the  Society 
For  Savings  in  Hartford,  Conn.  Previously  he 
had  been  with  the  Hartford  National  Bank  & 
Trust  Co.  where  he  was  a  corporate  banking 
officer.  Prior  to  entering  the  banking  field  he 
was  with  General  Dynamics  Corp.  and  Hamil- 

Iton  Standard,  Windsor  Locks,  Conn. 
Francis  X.  Dolan,  Jr.  is  now  a   research 
engineer  at  Creare,  Inc.,  Hanover,  N.H.  .  .  . 
William  J.  Dolbow  works  for  Nashua  (N.H.) 


Corp.  .  .  .  James  E.  Frappier  is  with 
Stauffer  Chemical  Engineering  and  Con- 
struction in  Bucks,  Ala.  .  .  .  George  L. 
Humphrey  is  a  computer  specialist  at 
Systems  Development  Corp.,  Falls  Church, 
Va.  .  .  .  Thomas  R.  Lee  works  for  the 
Bureau  of  Radiological  Health,  Rockville,  Md. 
.  .  .  James  S.  Main  is  at  the  National  Library 
of  Medicine  in  Bethesda,  Md.  .  .  .  Arthur  A. 
Padovano  serves  as  district  manager  of  the 
Dayton  (Ohio)  office  of  the  Torrington  Co. 


1966 


Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Grant  P.  Maier,  a 
daughter,  Jennifer  Riley,  on  April  6,  1975. 
Grant  is  with  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft,  East 
Hartford,  Conn. 

Dr.  Ahmet  K.  Atakan  is  an  assistant 
professor  at  Bogazici  University  in  Istanbul, 
Turkey.  He  received  his  PhD  in  physics  from 
the  University  of  Tennessee.  .  .  . 
Christopher  G.  Foster,  who  married  Miss 
Roberta  Jill  Hooper  of  Stoke  Lacy,  Here- 
fordshire, England,  last  year,  is  still  with  the 
Naval  Underwater  Systems  Center  in  New 
London,  Conn.  His  wife  is  a  graduate  of  Not- 
tingham University.  Currently  she's  doing 
graduate  work  at  Eastern  Connecticut  State 
College.  .  .  .  Thomas  J.  Curry  is  with  Naval 
Underwater  Systems,  Newport,  R.  I.  .  .  .  Cap- 
tain Eugene  R.  Dionne,  a  launch  vehicle 
systems  officer  assigned  to  Los  Angeles  Air 
Force  Station,  Calif.,  participated  last  winter 
in  the  Air  Force  world-wide  ski  meet  held  at 
Snow  Basin,  near  Hill  AFB,  Utah. 

Bernie  Duesel  writes  that  he  recently  joined 
Wickhen  Products,  Incorporated  as  the 
production  manager  of  the  Huguenot,  N.Y. 
plant.  The  company  manufactures  chemical 
specialties  for  the  cosmetics,  pharmaceutical 
and  allied  industries.  The  family  resides  in 
Goshen,  N.Y.,  where  Bernie,  his  wife,  Lynn 
Ann,  and  two  children  have  spent  the  past 
three  years  enjoying  the  switch  from  urban  to 
country  living.  .  .  .  Gordon  E.  Eaton,  MNS, 
has  been  installed  as  the  new  president  of 
the  Ludlow  (Mass.)  Education  Association. 
He  has  been  a  member  of  the  Ludlow  High 
School  science  department  since  1970.  .  .  . 
Kendall  W.  Gordon,  Jr.,  holds  the  post  of 
design  engineer  at  Federal  Products  Corp., 
Providence,  R.I.  .  .  .  John  J.  Lenart  is  with 
the  U.S.  Geological  Survey  in  Reston,  Va. 

Currently  Richard  Leon  serves  as  a 
technical  sales  representative  for  Eastman 
Kodak  Co.  and  is  located  in  Tuscon,  Ariz.  He 
is  responsible  for  technical  assistance  to 
radiologists  and  sales  promotion  of  X-ray 
film,  chemicals  and  film  processors.  .  .  . 
Donald  R.  Nitche  works  for  the  Hartford  In- 
surance Group,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  George 
B.  Ordway  serves  as  facility  manager  of  ap- 
plications engineering  at  the  C.G.  Bostwick 
Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Gerald  J.  Parker 
works  for  the  Federal  Energy  Administration, 
Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  Joseph  J.  Pastic  was 
recently  awarded  his  professional  civil 
engineering  license  at  ceremonies  at  Guam, 
Mariana  Island.  Presently  he  is  prinicipal 
engineer  of  the  Department  of  Public  Works 
planning  division  in  Guam.  He  is  completing 
requirements  for  his  MBA  degree  at  the 
University  of  Guam. 

Raymond  V.  Pierce  is  a  TVA  field 
engineer  on  a  nuclear  plant  site  in  eastern 
Tennessee. 


.  .  .  Michael  F.  Salvini  works  as  a  wire  mill 
superintendent  for  Bedford  Wire  in  Bedford 
Heights,  Ohio.  .  .  .  Ashok  D.  Shah  owns 
Quest,  Sherman  Oaks,  Calif.  .  .  .  Earle  L. 
Sims,  Jr.  is  a  sales  engineer  at  Farrel  Co., 
Ansonia,  Conn.  ...  Dr.  Henry  R.  Skutt  is  an 
electrical  engineering  professor  at  Virginia 
Polytechnic  Institute,  Blacksburg,  Va.  .  .  . 
Richard  H.  Somers  II  holds  the  post  of 
director  at  Different  Drummer  Building 
Associates  in  Howard  County,  Md.  and 
Montgomery  County,  Va.  The  firm  is  an 
open-ended  but  limited  partnership  of 
architects,  builders,  craftsmen,  engineers,  and 
designers  dedicated  to  quality  construction. . . . 
Earl  C.  Sparks  III  is  a  project  engineer  at 
Sobin  Chemical  Corp.  in  Ashtabula,  Ohio.  He 
recently  received  his  MBA  from  the  State 
University  of  New  York  in  Buffalo.  Earlier  he 
was  with  Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Niagara 
Falls,  N.Y.,  for  four  years.  .  .  .  Presently 
Roman  Sywak  serves  as  an  administrative 
assistant  at  Pratt  &  Whitney  Aircraft  in  East 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .Robert  W.  Thompson 
works  for  the  Chesapeake  Division  of 
N.A.F.A.C,  Washington  Navy  Yard, 
Washington,  D.C.  .  .  .  Robert  J.  Zavatkay 
has  joined  Associated  Spring  Corp.,  Bristol, 
Conn. 

1967 

Married:  Paul  E.  Kazemersky  to  Miss 
Marianne  Seabury  on  May  17,  1975  in 
Ansonia,  Connecticut.  The  bride,  a  graduate 
of  Bridgeport  Hospital  School  of  Nursing,  is 
employed  by  Griffin  Hospital.  She  belongs  to 
the  American  Association  of  Critical  Care 
Nurses.  Her  husband  has  been  with  the  Navy 
in  Groton. 

Bom:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Edward  W.  Pilt- 
zecker,  Jr.,  a  daughter,  Kristin  Sarah,  on 
May  21,  1974.  Ed  is  now  employed  by  the 
Foxboro  (Mass.)  Co.  as  a  system  engineer. 

Richard  A.  Alliegro,  SIM,  director  of  re- 
search and  new  business  development  of  the  In- 
dustrial Ceramics  Division  at  Norton  Co., 
Worcester,  has  been  named  to  the  board  of 
directors  of  Laser,  Inc.,  Sturbridge,  Mass. 
The  company  develops  and  manufactures  in- 
dustrial laser  machines  for  welding  and 
drilling  applications.  Alliegro  has  eight  patents 
and  is  credited  with  the  development  of  light- 
weight ceramic  armor  presently  in  use  on  ad- 
vanced helicopters  and  attack  aircraft.  A 
registered  professional  engineer,  he  is  a 
fellow  of  the  American  Ceramic  Society, 
president  of  the  National  Institute  of  Ceramic 
Engineers,  and  serves  on  the  ceramic  com- 
mittee of  the  Society  of  Automotive 
Engineers. 

Frank  M.  Amazeen  works  as  a  design 
engineer  for  AMF  Precision.  .  .  .Dwight  M. 
Baker,  who  operates  Affiliates  in  Civil 
Engineering,  Marshfield,  Vt.,  was  elected 
selectman  for  Marshfield  last  March.  He  also 
is  president  of  the  town's  volunteer  fire  com- 
pany, a  licensed  surveyor,  and  a  registered 
professional  engineer  in  Vermont.  Formerly 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975     33 


he  was  president  of  the  Capital  City  Jaycees, 
president  and  treasurer  of  the  Vermont  sec- 
tion of  ASCE,  and  chairman  of  the  Marshfield 
planning  commission.  .  .    Gene  Baldrate,  a 
senior  engineer  with  the  Southern  New 
England  Telephone  Co.,  New  Haven,  Conn., 
was  recently  elected  to  the  Board  of  Direc- 
tors of  the  Federal  Telephone  Employees 
Credit  Union.  .  .  .  Russell  P.  Bone  works  for 
Stone  &  Webster  Engineering  in  Boston.  .  .  . 
Patrick  Butler  is  a  test  engineer  at  the  U.S. 
Air  Force  Rocket  Propulsion  Lab.,  Edwards 
AFB,  Calif.  .  .  .  Presently  Robert  J.  Dashner 
serves  as  manager  of  data  processing  at  the 
Millipore  Corporation  in  Bedford,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Dr.  Richard  A.  Fine  is  an  advisory  engineer 
at  IBM  in  Rochester,  Minn.  .  .  .  Robert  E. 
Gohsler,  a  systems  engineer  with  IBM,  is 
located  in  San  Diego,  Calif.  .  .  . 

Lawrence  R.  Gooch  holds  the  post  of 
project  engineer  at  Farrel  Co.  in  Ansonia, 
Conn.  Currently  he  is  project  manager  and 
resident  engineer  on  an  equipment  in- 
stallation and  building  modification  for  the 
3M  Company  in  Bristol,  Pa.  .  .  .  Joseph 
Goulart  recently  joined  the  National 
Highway  Traffic  Safety  Administration  in 
Washington,  D.C.  He  is  a  safety  research 
engineer  ....  Joseph  A.  Lagana  is  part 
owner  of  Liberty  Store  in  Meriden,  Conn.  .  .  . 
Burton  F.  O'Rourke,  SIM,  has  been  ap- 
pointed chief  engineer  of  project  engineering 
and  kiln  design  for  engineering  construction 
and  services  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  He 
began  working  at  the  company  in  1937.  .  .  . 
Charles  Pollock  is  with  public  relations  at 
the  National  Machine  Tool  Builders  Assoc, 
McLean,  Va.  .  .  .  Capt.  Bruce  F.  Rogers 
serves  as  a  test  designer  for  the  U.S.  Army 
Operational  Test  &  Evanuation  Agency  in  Ft. 
Belvoir,  Va.  Recently  he  completed  graduate 
degrees,  MBA  and  MSOR,  at  Tulane  Univer- 
sity where  he  was  sponsored  by  the  army's 
advanced  degree  program.  .  .  .  Kenneth  G. 
Schurzky  has  been  promoted  to  project 
scientist  in  the  research  and  development 
department  at  Union  Carbide  in  Piscataway, 
N.J.  He  joined  the  department  in  1967.  .  .  . 
Raymond  P.  Seguin  holds  the  post  of  man- 
ager of  quality  control  at  Carrier  Air  Condi- 
tioning in  Collierville,  Tenn.  .  .  .  Robert  C. 
Young  is  market  manager  at  EG  &  G,  Inc. 
Environmental  Equipment  Division,  Waltham, 
Mass. 


1968 

Married:  Mark  A.  Freyermuth  and  Miss 
Mary  Zailskas  on  April  19,  1975  in  Waterbury, 
Connecticut.  Mrs.  Freyermuth  graduated 
from  the  Waterbury  Hospital  School  of 
Nursing.  She  received  her  BS  in  nursing  from 
the  University  of  Bridgeport  and  is  studying 
for  her  master's  at  Southern  Connecticut 
State  College  in  New  Haven.  She  is  a  public 
health  nurse  for  the  city  of  Waterbury.  -  .  . 
Carl  P.  Steele  to  Miss  Helena  P.  Cuddy  in 
West  Roxbury,  Massachusetts  on  February 
22,  1975.  The  bride  graduated  from  Boston 
State  College,  where  she  also  earned  a 
master's  degree. 

Francis  L   Addessio  recently  received  a 
PhD  from  Purdue  University  and  is  now 
doing  postdoctoral  work  there  on  gas  dis- 
charges with  applications  to  molecular  lasers. 


...  Dr.  R.  Omur  Akyuz,  who  received  his 
PhD  in  physics  from  Brown  University,  is  cur- 
rently an  assistant  professor  at  Bogazici 
University  in  Istanbul,  Turkey.  .  .  .  Stephen 
O.  Allaire  has  passed  the  Connecticut  Bar 
Association  examination.  He  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  a  one-year  clerkship  for  Chief 
Justice  Charles  House  of  the  Connecticut 
Supreme  Court.  He  attended  Georgetown 
University  Law  School.  .  .  .  Robert  G. 
Balmer  is  an  environmental  engineer  at 
Exxon  Research  &  Engineering,  Florham 
Park,  N.J.  .  .  .  John  C.  DeMeo  is  on  the 
staff  of  Coginchaug  High  School,  Durham, 
Conn.  .  .  .  Jeffrey  A.  Decker  was  recently 
promoted  to  manager  in  the  Northern  New 
Jersey  real  estate  office  of  the  Prudential 
Insurance  Co.  in  Newark.  He  joined  the 
company's  New  York  City  real  estate  in- 
vestment office  in  1973  and  has  just  been 
transferred  to  Newark.  Currently  he  is  a 
member  of  the  Young  Men's  Mortgage  Com- 
mittee, New  York. 

Carl  R.  Dupre  works  for  Monsanto  Co., 
Indian  Orchard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Prof.  Robert  B. 
Gillies,  MNS,  who  has  been  teaching  at 
Quinsigamond  Community  College,  Wor- 
cester, for  nine  years,  has  been  selected  to 
appear  in  the  1975  edition  of  Outstanding 
Educators  of  America.  The  national  honor  is 
in  recognition  of  his  academic  accomplish- 
ments and  contributions.  .  .  .  William  J. 
Giokas  and  Andrew  J.  Giokas  '70,  are 
partners  in  the  firm,  William  J.  Giokas, 
Chicopee,  Mass.  .  .  .  David  J.  Gumbley 
works  for  Getty  Pipe  Co.,  Hazelton,  Pa.  .  .  . 
Steven  G.  Halstedt  was  recently  elected  a 
director  of  Cominvestof  Hartford,  Inc.,  a 
minority  enterprise  small  business  investment 
company  organized  by  Society  for  Savings. 
He  is  an  analyst  in  the  securities  department 
of  the  Travelers  'Insurance  Co.,  Hartford.  .  .  . 
Jeffrey  J.  Hultman  received  his  JD  in  Law 
from  Southwestern  University,  Los  Angeles, 
in  May  and  has  been  studying  for  his  bar 
exam. 

Charles  D.  Konopka  serves  as  a  special 
assistant  to  the  commissioner  of  education  in 
the  Connecticut  State  Department  of 
Education.  This  summer  he  receives  a  cer- 
tificate of  advanced  graduate  study  in 
education  administration  from  the  University 
of  Connecticut,  where  he  is  also  enrolled  in  a 
PhD  program.  He  was  coauthor  of  an  article, 
"Curriculum  Design  Through  Operations 
Research"  which  will  appear  in  the  Journal  of 
the  American  Educational  Research 
Association.  His  current  job  deals  with  the 
development  of  a  computerized  management 
information  system  for  the  Connecticut  State 
Department  of  Education. 

Allen  A.  Kutz  is  with  Winthrop  Labora- 
tories, a  division  of  Sterling  Drug,  Inc.,  New 
York  City.  Arnold  S.  Novick  works  for  Jono 
Textile  Co.,  Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Scott  W. 
Ramsay  serves  as  a  management  analyst  for 
the  state  of  Maine  in  Augusta.  .  .  .  David  R. 
Speirs  is  with  Speirs  Plumbing  Old  Lyme, 
Conn.  .  .  .  James  M.  Wendell  has  joined 
Dell  Manufacturing  Co.,  Inc.,  Farmington, 
Conn.  Gregory  F.  Wirzbicki  works  for 

Union  Oil  Co.  of  California  at  the  Union  Oil 
Center  in  Los  Angeles. 


1969 

Born:  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gordon  J.  Mears, 

their  first  child,  Donald  Gordon,  on  August  6, 

1974.  Gordon  is  now  a  buyer  for  GE  in 
Wilmington,  Mass.  ...  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Edward  A.  Mierzejewski  their  first  son, 
Mark  Edward,  on  January  16,  1975.  They  also 
have  an  older  daughter.  Ed  has  joined  the 
Southeastern  Virginia  Planning  District 
Commission  in  Norfolk  as  head  of  the  trans- 
portation planning  section  ....  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Stephen  E.  Platz,  a  son  on  April  19, 

1975.  Platz  is  a  scientific  programmer  at  Pratt  & 
Whitney  Aircraft  in   East  Hartford,  Conn.  .  . 
to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Stephen  O.  Rogers,  a  son, 
Timothy    Drew,    on    June    26,    1974.    Steve 
is  plant  supervisor  for  E.I.  duPont  de 
Nemours  in  Healing  Springs,  N.C.  ...  to  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Barry  Shiffrin,  a  daughter,  Andrea 
Beth,  on  April  17,  1975. 

Arnold  Barr  is  an  environmental  scientist  at 
the  Radiation  Management  Corp.,  Phila- 
delphia. ...  Raj  K.  Chauhan  is  with  Parle 
Products  Private  LTD.,  Bombay,  India.  .  . 
Roger  E.  Dennison  works  as  an  energy 
conservation  engineer  at  R.G.  Vanderweil 
Engineers  in  Boston.  .  .  .  Andrew  G.  DiLeo 
is  a  bridge  maintenance  engineer  in  the 
Arizona  Department  of  Transportation, 
Phoenix,  Ariz.  .  .  .  Warren  F.  Follett  left 
Hughes  Aircraft  in  Culver  City,  Calif,  in 
January  and  is  now  with  Emerson  Electric 
Co.  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  He  is  an  engineering 
specialist  in  the  electronics  space  division. 
He,  his  wife,  and  daughter  reside  in  nearby 
Hazelwood.  .  .  .  Leslie  T.  Hatch  is  a  project 
manager  at  Buchart-Horn,  Inc.,  York,  Pa.  He 
is  a  professional  engineer. 

Andrew  J.  Heman  is  a  chemical  engineer 
on  the  production  staff  at  Tampa  (Fla.) 
Electric  Co.  .  .  .  Gregory  T.  Hopkins  serves 
as  a  senior  systems  analyst  at  Republic 
National  Bank  of  Dallas,  Texas.  He  is  also 
with  Regent  Engineering  of  Wilmington,  Del. 
.  .  .  Charles  A.  Kalauskas  holds  the  position 
of  senior  transportation  planner  with  the 
Central  Transportation  Planning  Staff  in 
Boston.  Last  year  he  graduated  from  the 
Graduate  School  of  Design  at  Harvard  with  a 
master's  degree  in  city  planning.  .  .  .  Capt. 
Anthony  F.  Leketa  is  serving  with  the  U.S. 
Army  Engineers  in  Seoul,  Korea.  .  .  .  David 
Lieberman  is  a  senior  systems  analyst  at 
Bausch  &  Lomb,  Inc.,  Rochester,  N.Y.  .  .  . 
Bidyut  K.  Rath  is  a  structural  engineer  for 
Brown  &  Root,  Inc.,  in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  . 
Currently  Robert  J.  Rose  works  as  a  pro- 
duction supervisor  for  DuPont  at  the  Sabine 
river  works  in  Orange,  Texas,  where  he  is 
supervising  the  construction  and  start-up  of  a 
new  plastic  product  unit.  .  .  .  Donald  L. 
Sharp  serves  as  a  senior  engineer  at 
Simmonds  Precision  in  Vergennes,  Vt.  .  .  . 
Last  May  John  A.  Taylor  received  his  MBA 
from  the  University  of  Rochester  in  New 
York.  .  .  .  Charles  E.  Trent  has  been  trans- 
ferred to  Reading,  Pa.,  with  Crompton  and 
Knowles  Corp.,  where  he  is  an  analytical 
chemist. 


34     August  1975      WPI  Journal 


South  Pacific 


Students  who  want  the  best  secondary 
education  provided  in  the  tiny  South 
Pacific  island  kingdom  of  Tonga  can  be 
found  at  Tonga  High  School  where 
Peace  Corps  volunteer  Mervyn  L. 
Hamer,  73,  has  been  teaching  for  the 
past  two  years.  This  elite  public  school, 
which  selects  the  brightest  students  in 
Tonga,  is  known  for  its  rigorous  scho- 
lastic program  and  its  top  notch  faculty. 
It  enrolls  460  students  and  is  located  in 
Nuku'alofa,  capital  of  this  country  of 
95,000  people  and  150  islands. 

Hamer,  who  is  one  of  six  Peace  Corps 
volunteers  on  the  high  school  staff, 
teaches  chemistry,  general  science,  and 
mathematics.  Although  he  had  never 
taught  previously,  he  went  to  Tonga  a 
month  after  graduation  and  immediately 
plunged  into  teaching. 

"I  just  got  thrown  right  into  the 
situation  and  started  teaching,"  he  said. 
"It  was  kind  of  a  new  thing  at  first. 

"I  really  enjoy  it  and  I  enjoy  the 
kids,"  he  added.  "You  have  your  bad 
times  but  not  very  often.  I  usually  feel 
pretty  good  at  the  end  of  the  day." 

Teaching  science  in  an  isolated,  tra- 
ditional island  nation  poses  its  own 
unique  problems,  he  noted.  "It's  difficult 
in  the  sense  that  it's  fairly  technical,  and 
kids  here  don't  have  any  exposure  to 
things  like  television  and  mechanical 
gadgets.  You  have  to  spend  time  teach- 


ing them  things  that  we  take  for 
granted.  But  it  isn't  hard  using  visual 
aids  and  class  demonstrations." 

In  class,  Hamer  stresses  demonstra- 
tions and  experiments  so  that  students 
can  see  scientific  principles  for  them- 
selves. "They  do  most  of  the  experi- 
ments themselves,"  he  said.  "It's  easy  to 
keep  them  interested.  I'd  rather  let  the 
kids  do  things  themselves  so  that  they 
get  used  to  handling  things.  I  figure  that 
you  learn  what  you  do." 

Most  of  his  students  are  in  the  fifth 
form  —  roughly  equivalent  to  the 
eleventh  grade  —  and  are  studying  to 
pass  examinations  for  their  school  cer- 
tificates, similar  to  high  school 
diplomas.  Hamer  teaches  them  from  a 
syllabus  intended  to  prepare  them  for 
the  exams.  Both  the  syllabus  and  the 
tests  are  geared  to  New  Zealand's  educa- 
tional system,  which  serves  as  the 
model  for  that  of  Tonga. 

Hamer  must  cover  the  given  topics  on 
the  syllabus,  but  his  lesson  plans  and 
teaching  methods  are  up  to  him.  "I  don't 
like  to  try  to  change  things  too  much  in 
class  because  passing  this  test  means  a 
lot  to  some  kids,"  he  noted.  "I  don't 
want  to  spoil  their  chances." 

He  teaches  in  English,  Tonga's  official 
language  and  the  medium  of  instruction 
in  the  secondary  schools.  The  students' 
first  language  is  Tongan,  however,  and 
not  all  of  them  are  adept  at  reading, 
writing  and  understanding  English.  "It's 
tough  to  give  them  problems  that  are 


really  abstract,"  Hamer  said.  "English  is 
their  second  language  and  they  don't 
really  understand  them."  The  students 
are  not  allowed  to  speak  Tongan  at  the 
school. 

Hamer's  school  day  runs  from  8  a.m. 
to  4:30  p.m.  After  school  he  may  work 
on  lesson  plans,  correct  papers,  go  to 
the  movies,  play  handball  or  soccer 
with  the  students,  or  teach  special  night 
classes  for  students  preparing  for  the 
exams. 

He  lives  in  Nuku'alofa,  the  only 
urban  center  in  the  country,  in  a  small 
oceanside  house  with  running  water  but 
no  electricity.  "Life  is  simpler  here,  so 
there  are  fewer  things  that  can  go 
wrong,"  he  said.  "I  don't  really  have 
that  much  free  time,  but  I  find  that 
things  move  a  lot  easier  here." 

A  1969  graduate  of  New  Bedford 
(Mass.)  High  School,  Hamer  will  wind 
up  his  two  years  of  Peace  Corps  service 
in  Tonga  this  summer.  He  is  one  of 
about  75  Peace  Corps  volunteers  serving 
in  Tonga  in  a  wide  variety  of  education, 
health  and  professional  services  pro- 
grams. Around  the  world,  about  7,900 
Americans  are  serving  as  Peace  Corps 
volunteers  and  trainees  in  68  developing 
nations. 

The  Peace  Corps  is  part  of  ACTION, 
the  federal  agency  for  volunteer  service 
established  in  July,  1971  to  administer 
volunteer  programs  at  home  and 
overseas. 

UIPI 


\NPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  35 


1970 

Married:  Kalvin  W.  Ngoon  and  Miss  Sandra 
E.  Lilley  on  April  26,  1975  in  Oxford,  Massa- 
chusetts. The  bride,  a  registered  nurse,  grad- 
uated from  the  University  of  Massachusetts 
School  of  Nursing  in  Amherst.  The  groom  is 
a  senior  programmer  at  Syntex,  Inc.,  Palo 
Alto,  Calif. 

James  F.  Bagaglio,  a  medex  (medical 
assistant)  trainee  from  the  Dartmouth-Hitch- 
cock Medical  Center  at  Dartmouth  College  in 
Hanover,  N.H.,  began  a  nine-month  appren- 
ticeship with  Dr.  Christian  Briggs  of  Nan- 
tucket, Mass.  in  April.  As  a  medex,  he  is 
trained  in  taking  complete  physical  examina- 
tions and  detailed  medical  histories.  He  is 
competent  in  taking  blood  samples,  giving 
shots,  checking  blood  pressure,  and 
conducting  lab  work.  Previously  he  was  a 
supervisor  at  North  Shore  Children's  Hospital 
in  Salem.  .  .  .  Francis  L.  Belisle,  Jr.,  is  with 
Hughes  Aircraft  in  Culver  City,  Calif.  .  .  . 
Mark  E.  Brown  works  as  a  lab  supervisor  at 
Minneapolis  Medical  Research  Foundation, 
Minneapolis,  Minn. 

John  D.  Cattel  serves  as  a  district  rep- 
resentative for  Betz  Labs  in  Trevose,  Pa.  .  .  . 
Bernard  J.  Dodge,  who  has  been  associate 
projects  administrator  at  WPI  for  the  past 
three  years,  is  spending  the  summer  studying 
Spanish  as  the  Centro  Intercultural  de 
Documentacion  in  Cuernavaca,  Mexico.  In 
September  he  starts  graduate  studies  in  the 
area  of  instructional  technology  in  the  School 
of  Education  at  Syracuse  University.  .  .  . 
James  H.  George  is  a  chemical  engineer  at 
Uniroyal  Chemical  Co.  in  Naugatuck,  Conn.  .  . 
Robert    J.    Goodness    vice    president    and 
general  manager  of  Man-Flight  Systems,  Inc., 
Worcester,  appeared  in  a  prime-time  tele- 
vision special,  "Fly  Like  a  Bird",  which  was 
broadcast  on  Boston's  Channel  4  on  March 
21st.  The  special  highlighted  the  new  sport  of 
hang  gliding  and  included  film  footage  of 
Goodness  and  others  participating  in  the 
sport  on  the  outer  sand  banks  of  Cape  Cod. 

Robert  Grillo  works  for  F.H.W.A.  in 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  Alan  F.  Hassett  has 
received  his  registration  as  a  professional 
engineer  in  New  York  state  and  also  has 
completed  the  requirements  for  a  master's 
degree  in  sanitary  engineering  from  Syracuse 
University.  Chip  is  a  project  engineer  for  the 
civil  engineering  division  of  O'Brien  and  Gere 
Engineers,  Inc.,  Syracuse.  .  .  .  Roger  Henze 
received  his  master's  degree  in  regional 
planning  from  Cornell  University  in  January. 
For  a  year  he  and  his  wife,  Judy,  will  be 
working  as  VISTA  volunteers.  They  are  being 
sponsored  by  the  Yadkin  Valley  Economic 
Development  District,  Inc.,  in  Boonville,  N.C. 
Their  project  is  to  organize  and  set  up  a 
senior  citizen  center  in  Davie  County.  .  .  . 
Thomas  G    Mallory  is  an  applications 
engineer  at  USM  Corp.,  Shelton,  Conn. 


1971 

Paul  B.  Ash  has  been  elected  president  of 
the  Dover-Sherborn  (Mass.)  Teachers'  Asso- 
ciation. A  chemistry  teacher  at  the  Dover- 
Sherborn  Regional  High  School,  he  was  a 
delegate  to  the  Mass.  Teachers'  Association 
Convention  in  1974-75  and  served  on  the 
committee  to  draw  up  the  constitution  of  the 
Dover-Sherborn  Teachers'  Association.  He 
chaired  the  committee  to  form  the  Honor 
Society  at  the  high  school.  As  president  of 
the  142-member  teachers'  association,  he 
hopes  to  improve  communications  between 
the  communities,  the  administration,  the 
faculty  and  the  school  committee.  .  .  .  2/Lt. 
Richard  C.  Brunet  has  been  awarded  silver 
wings  upon  graduation  from  U.S.  Air  Force 
navigator  training  at  Mather  AFB,  California. 
He  is  being  assigned  to  MacDill  AFB,  Florida, 
for  flying  duty  with  a  unit  of  the  Tactical  Air 
Command. 

John  N.  Brusseau  was  recently  promoted 
from  assistant  to  associate  professor  in  the 
school  of  engineering  at  Western  New 
England  College,  Springfield,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Steven  A.  Clarke  is  a  biomedical  engineer  at 
Thermo-Electron  Corp.,  Waltham,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Gregory  S.  Dickson  is  now  a  manufacturing 
supervisor  at  the  Allyns  Point  Plant  of  Dow 
Chemical  Co.  in  Gales  Ferry,  Conn.  .  .  . 
William  B.  Ericson  holds  the  post  of  design 
engineer  at  Digital  Equipment  Corp., 
Marlboro,  Mass.  .  .  .  The  Rev.  Mr.  Anthony 
S.  Kazarnowicz  was  ordained  to  the  priest- 
hood on  May  17  at  Our  Lady  of  Jasna  Gora 
Church  in  Clinton,  Mass.  He  studied  for  the 
priesthood  at  SS  Cyril  and  Methodius 
Seminary,  Orchard  Lake,  Mich.,  and 
completed  his  deacon  internship  in  Our  Lady 
of  Jasna  Gora  parish. 

James  Lavallee  is  a  field  engineer  at 
Sargent  &  Lundy  in  Chicago.  .  .  .  Scott 
McCandless  is  now  an  adjunct  assistant 
professor  in  the  CE  department  at  WPI.  .  .  . 
John  R.  Oscarson  works  at  Pfizer  Chemical, 
Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Donald  K.  Peterson  has 
been  promoted  to  senior  investment  analyst 
at  State  Mutual  Life  Assurance  Company  of 
America  in  Worcester.  In  1973  he  received  his 
MBA  from  Dartmouth  and  then  joined  State 
Mutual's  securities  organization.  Last  year  he 
was  promoted  to  investment  analyst.  .  .  . 
Steven  M.  Purpura  has  opened  his  own 
glass  business.  Wayside  Glass  &  Mirror 
Company,  on  Rte.  20  in  Marlboro,  Mass. 
Previously  he  was  employed  as  a  glazier  at 
Federal  Glass  in  Framingham.  .  .  .  Richard 
San  Antonio  is  a  medical  student  at  Wash- 
ington University  Medical  School,  St.  Louis, 
Mo.  .        Charles  A.  Sumner  works  as  a 
design  engineer  at  Worcester  Controls  Corp., 
West  Boylston,  Mass. 

Noel  Totti  III  is  a  third-year  medical  stu- 
dent at  the  University  of  Puerto  Rico.  He  re- 
ceived his  MS  in  biomedical  engineering  from 
Duke  University.  .  .  .  Urmas  A.  Volke,  who 
married  Miss  Jacquelyn  M.  Catino,  a  gradu- 
ate of  Salter  Secretarial  School  last  October, 
is  employed  by  Dynamac  Inc.,  Natick,  Mass. 
William  R    Whitworth  is  now  a  produc 
tion  supervisor  in  the  Fisher  Body  Division  of 
G.M.C.  in  Trenton,  N.J.  .  .  .  Robert  D. 
Williams  is  with  CETA  in  Fitchburg,  Mass. 

Michael  J.  Winn  writes  that  he  is  an 
independent  fisherman.  He  is  located  in 
Orleans,  Mass. 


1972 

Married:  Konstantin  Eliadi  and  Miss  Carol 
Ann  Lake  on  April  27,  1975  in  Northboro, 
Massachusetts.  The  bride  graduated  from 
Quinsigamond  Community  College, 
Worcester,  and  from  the  University  of  Massa- 
chusetts, where  she  received  a  bachelor's 
degree  in  nursing.  She  is  a  registered  nurse  in 
the  St.  Vincent  Hospital  emergency  room. 
Her  husband  is  working  for  his  master's 
degree  in  environmental  engineering  at  WPI. 
.  .  .  James  A.  Hardy  to  Miss  Mary  J.  Kniep 
on  May  17,  1975  in  Rochester,  New  York., 
Mrs.  Hardy  graduated  from  Marquette  Uni- 
versity where  she  received  her  BS  degree  and 
the  University  of  Rochester  where  she 
received  her  MS  degree.  She  is  a  registered 
nurse.  Hardy  is  a  graduate  student  at  the 
University  of  Rochester.  .  .  .  David  P.  Riedel 
and  Miss  Rima  S.  Perlstein  recently  in 
Hartford,  Connecticut.  The  bride  graduated 
from  C.W.  Post  College  and  is  now  a  grad- 
uate student  in  theater  at  the  University  of 
Connecticut.  The  groom  is  a  graduate 
student  in  computer  science  at  the  University 
of  Connecticut. 

James  J.  Altoonian  is  an  investment 
analyst  at  Detroit  Bank  &  Trust,  Detroit, 
Mich.  .  .  .  Currently  Gregory  S.  Blood  is 
assistant  regional  superintendent  for  Swift  & 
Co.  in  Union,  N.J.  .  .  .  James  P.  Colangelo 
writes  that  he  is  a  third-year  medical  student 
at  St.  Louis  (Mo.)  University.  .  .  .  David  S. 
Cummings  is  now  a  manufacturing  engineer 
at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester.  He  and  his  wife, 
Bonnie,  recently  purchased  a  beautiful  200- 
year-old  farm  in  Princeton.  .  .  .  Alan  H. 
Fraser  is  with  the  Dream  Machine  in 
Worcester  Center.  ...  Dr.  Terry  A.  Fuller 
writes  that  he  is  a  research  biophysicist  at 
Sinai  Hospital  of  Detroit.  .  .  .  Rae  H. 
Johnson  is  a  construction  service  engineer 
at  Warner  &  Swasey  in  Worcester.  .  .  . 
David  L.  LeBlanc  now  serves  as  automotive 
territory  manager  at  Gates  Rubber  Co., 
Denver  Colo. 

Frank  D.  McMahon  is  a  materials  engi- 
neer at  Haynes,  Hollon  &  Assoc,  Inc.,  Dallas, 
Texas.  .  .  . 

Randall  Partridge,  reportedly  one  of  the 
world's  foremost  experts  in  formose  (the  con- 
version of  carbon  dioxide  to  sugar)  has  been 
participating  since  March  in  a  formal  scientist 
exchange  program  between  WPI  and  the 
Soviet  Union  in  support  of  space  travel  re- 
search. To  date,  research  attempts  to 
produce  edible  sugar  from  the  exhaled  breath 
of  astronauts  have  been  unsuccessful.  If  an 
edible  sugar  could  be  produced,  it  would 
provide  a  carbohydrate  which  would  be 
important  in  feeding  the  crew  for  the 
manned  Mars  shot  being  planned  by  NASA. 
Partridge  will  report  to  WPI  on  his  progress 
with  the  Soviet  scientists.  The  trip  was 
funded  by  the  National  Science  Foundation, 
the  exchange  program  being  coordinated  by 
WPI  Prof.  Alvin  H.  Weiss.  Partridge  is  a 
chemist  with  the  Mobil  Oil  Co.,  Paulsboro, 
N.J. 


36  WPI  Journal 


Wilfred  L.  Prue  works  for  the  Naval 
Ordnance  Station  in  Indian  Head,  Md.  .  .  . 
Bruce  Rosser  is  a  senior  engineer  in  the 
New  Jersey  Department  of  Transportation  in 
Trenton.  .  .  .  Dinesh  V.  Shah  serves  as  a 
stress  analyst  for  All  States  Design  &  Devel- 
opment in  Houston,  Texas.  .  .  .  Joe 
Spurlock  has  been  hired  as  a  chemistry 
teacher  and  basketball  coach  at  Windham 
(Me.)  High  School.  Earlier  he  taught 
chemistry  at  Tourtelotte  High  School, 
Grosvenordale,  Conn.  During  his  five  years  as 
a  basketball  coach,  his  team  reached  the 
Connecticut  state  tournament  twice.  .  .  . 
Thomas  W.  Staehr  is  a  materials  engineer 
for  the   Tennessee   Valley   Authority   at   the 
Bellefonte  Nuclear  Plant  in  Hollywood,  Ala.  .  . 
Kurt  M.  Wusterbarth  serves  as  a   project 
engineer  at  Hercules,  Inc.,  Lake  Charles, 
Louisiana. 

1973 

Married:  Charles  M.  Henrickson  and  Miss 
Pamela  J.  Carlson  in  Worcester  on  April  12, 
1975.  The  bride  attended  North  Park  College, 
Chicago,  and  Worcester  State  College.  Her 
husband  is  a  manufacturing  engineer  at 
General  Electric  Co.,  Fitchburg,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Clifford  P.  Peterson  and  Ellen  M.  Church, 
'75,  of  Millbury,  Massachusetts  on  October 
26,  1974.  Joseph  J.  Magri,  Jr.,  was  an 
usher,  and  Helen  Weimerskirch,  74,  and 
Vicki  Cowart,  75,  bridesmaids.  Mrs. 
Peterson  is  a  computer  programmer  with  the 
American  Telephone  &  Telegraph  Co.  in 
Piscataway,  N.J.  The  groom  works  for  the 
Bank  of  Tokyo's  International  Operations 
Department  in  New  York  City.  .  .  .  Lt. 
Richard  F.  Sliwoski  (U.S.  Army)  and  Miss 
Leslie  L.  Pierce  on  May  17,  1975  in 
Forestville,  Connecticut.  The  bride  received 
her  associate's  degree  from  Becker  Junior 
College.  Her  husband  is  with  the  Army 
Corps,  of  Engineers  in  Dexheim,  Germany.  .  . 
Kenneth  R.  Therrien  and  Miss  Carol  E. 
Babineau  on  May  3,  1975  in  Gardner,  Massa- 
chusetts. Mrs.  Therrien  graduated  from 
Quabbin  Regional  High  School.  The  groom 
works  for  American  Standard  Co.,  Windsor 
Locks,  Conn. 

Abdulazeez  M.  Al-Baghli  serves  as  a 
television  engineer  for  the  Ministry  of  In- 
formation in  Kuwait.  .  .  .  William  N.  Ault,   a 
product  engineer  at  Norton  Co.,  Worcester, 
participated  as  a  session  leader  in  the  1975 
ASAM  International  Technical  Conference 
and  Exhibition  held  in  Chicago  last  May.  His 
topic  was:  "Surface  Integrity:  How  Much  Do 
You  Need  and  How  Do  You  Get  It?"  .  .  . 
Duane  Barnhart,  SIM,  works  as  superinten- 
dent of  forming  at  Norton  Co.  .  .  .  Paul 
R.  Ciaccio  is  presently  attending  Massa- 
chusetts College  of  Optometry  in  Boston.  .  .  . 
Robert  DiGennaro  is  an  electrical  field 
engineer  for  GTE  Sylvania  in  Waltham,  Mass. 
.  .  .  Stephen  F.  Dowling  is  a  sales  engineer 
at  Nash  Engineering  Co.,  Norwalk,  Conn. 

Recently  Edward  S.  Jamro  received  his  MS 
in  environmental  engineering  from  the 
University  of  Massachusetts.  He  is  now  an 
environmental  engineer  in  the  corporate 
engineering  department  at  Monsanto  Chem- 
ical Company  in  St.  Louis,  Mo.  .  .  .  Stephen 
E.  Kaminski  works  for  the  Rural  Electrifica- 
tion Administration  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 


Ken  Larsson  is  with  Boswell  Engineering  in 
Waldwick,  N.J.  .  .  .  James  M.  Mercik  is  an 
actuarial  student  at  Aetna  Life  &  Casualty, 
Hartford,  Conn.  .  .  .  The  Raytheon  Co., 
Bedford,  Mass.,  has  hired  Robert  H. 
Newman  as  a  software  engineer.  .  .  .  Gerald 
Otte  is  teaching  with  the  Peace  Corps  in 
West  Malaysia.  .  .  .  Einat  H.  Pilzer,  who 
received  her  MS  from  MIT  last  year,  works 
for  Nuclear  Energy  Systems  in  Monroeville, 
Pa.  .  .  .  Diane  Pritchard  is  a  computer  pro- 
gramming instructor  at  Providence  (R.I.) 
College.  .  .  .  Dinesh  S.  Shah  is  with 
EBASCO  Services,  Inc.,  New  York  City.  .  .  . 
Paul  M.  Watson,  a  research  engineer,  works 
at  Amoco  Chemical  Co.,  Naperville,  III.  .  .  . 
Mark  D.  Whitley  is  a  production  engineer  at 
Shell  Oil  Co.,  New  Orleans,  La. 


1974 

Married:  Dean  C.  Anderson  to  Miss  Pamela 
J.  Bray  on  September  14,  1974  in  Worcester. 
The  groom  holds  a  field  engineering  position 
with  Envirotech  Systems,  Inc.,  of  California. 
Currently  he  is  assigned  to  a  project  in 
Maynard,  Mass.  .  .  .  Eugene  R.  Lukianov 
and  Miss  Debra  Ann  Garbarino  last  spring  in 
Roslindale,  Massachusetts.  Thebride,  a  grad- 
uate of  Holliston  Junior  College,  is  a  respira- 
tory therapist.  The  groom  works  for  Bendix 
Co.,  South  Bend,  Indiana.  .  .  .  Gordon  G. 
Woodfall  and  Miss  Joanne  A.  Desaulnier  in 
Pomfret,  Connecticut  on  August  24,  1974. 
The  bride  is  employed  as  a  secretary  for  the 
Motor  Lease  Corp.  in  Farmington,  Conn.  Her 
husband  is  production  control  analyst  at  Faf- 
nir  Bearing  Co.,  New  Britain,  Conn. 

Born:  to  Mrs.  Elaine  Garwood  Henshon 
and  Mr.  Henshon,  a  son,  on  March  31,  1975. 
.  .  .  Recently  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Albert 
Simonti,  a  daughter,  Alicia.  Al  is  still  with 
Stone  &  Webster,  Boston. 


Bruce  R.  Beaupre  writes  that  he  is  classified 
as  a  technical  supervisor  and  is  presently 
doing  interplant  project  engineering  and 
consulting  with  BASF  Wyandotte  Corp., 
Wyandotte,  Mich.  .  .  .  Douglas  Borgatti  is 
working  for  his  master's  degree  at  Manhattan 
College  in  Bronx,  N.Y.  .  .  .  Leonard  J. 
Brzozowski  and  Lee  D.  Turner  recently  did 
some  graduate  research  for  Prof.  Dennis  L. 
Meadows  (author  of  The  Limits  to  Growth)  at 
the  Amos  Tuck  School  of  Business  at  Dart- 
mouth College.  They  are  spending  the 
summer  building  models  of  the  World  Food 
and  Energy  Systems  for  the  U.S.  General 
Accounting  Office  in  Washington,  D.C.  .  .  . 
Stuart  A.  Daniels  works  for  Boston  Insu- 
lated Wire  &  Cable  Co.,  Plymouth,  Mass.  .  .  . 
Edward  S.  Dlugosz  has  taken  a  leave  of 
absence  from  Camp  Dresser  &  McKee,  Inc. 
and  is  doing  graduate  work  at  Northeastern 
University,  Boston.  .  .  .  William  Dyson  is  a 
graduate  student  in  physics  at  Central  Michi- 
gan University. 

Edward  Gordon  is  assistant  engineering 
programmer  at  Burroughs  Corp.,  Detroit, 
Mich.  He  is  also  a  graduate  student  at  Wayne 
State  University.  .  .  .  Joseph  Lemanski 
works  for  ARP  Instruments,  Inc.,  Newton, 
Mass.  .  .  .  Robert  E.  Lindberg  is  a  research 
assistant  and  assistant  varsity  swim  coach  at 
the  School  of  Engineering  at  the  University  of 
Virginia  in  Charlottesville.  .  .  .  Robert  S. 
Parnass  has  been  employed  by  the  Systems 
Research  and  Development  Dept.  of  Ultimacc 
Systems,  Inc.,  Maywood,  N.J.  The  company 
designs  and  sells  mini-computer  systems.  .  .  . 
Stephen  Rubin  is  with  EMC  Controls  in 
Cockeysville,  Md.  .  .  .  Lawrence  D.  Patty 
holds  the  post  of  associate  engineer  at 
Electric  Boat  in  Groton,  Conn.  .  .  .  Frederick 
L.  Williams  is  an  associate  scientist  at  Leeds 
&  Northrup  in  North  Wales,  Pa. 


MORGAN 

CONSTRUCTION  COMPANY 

15  Belmont  Street,  Worcester,  Mass.  01605 

Serving  the  Ferrous  and  Non- Ferrous  World  Markets  since  1888  as 
Engineers  and  Manufacturers  of  Rolling  Mills,  Morgoil  Bearings, 
Wire  Drawing  Machinery  and  Furnace  Equipment 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  37 


Edwin  Anderson,  who  for  44  years  was  a 
physics  lecture  assistant  at  WPI,  died  on 
April  18,  1975  in  Worcester.  He  was  68. 

As  a  physics  lecture  assistant,  Mr. 
Anderson  set  up  experiments  for  students. 
He  retired  two  years  ago.  A  Worcester  native, 
he  was  a  member  of  the  Tech  Old  Timers 
and  the  Masons.  His  hobbies  included 
antique  collecting  and  gardening. 

Ivan  E.  "Pete"  Bigler,  83,  head  coach  at 
WPI  from  1921  to  1941,  died  on  April  1,  1975 
at  his  home  in  Coldwater,  Michigan. 

He  was  born  in  Webster,  Ohio  in  1892  and 
graduated  from  Juniata  College  in  Hunting- 
don, Pa.  in  1916.  Later  he  received  a  master's 
degree  in  physical  education  from  Springfield 
College.  While  a  college  student  he  played 
professional  baseball  with  the  Philadelphia 
Athletics  in  the  summers.  After  graduation  he 
was  a  utility  infielder  and  third  baseman  with 
the  St.  Louis  Browns  and  played  with  such 
notables  as  George  Sisler  and  Eddie  Plank. 

In  1920  he  resigned  as  a  captain  in  the 
Marine  Corps  and  joined  WPI  as  a  coach  in 
basketball,  baseball,  and  football.  He  coached 
the  football  team  to  its  first  undefeated 
season  in  1938.  During  the  early  1920's 
Bigler's  basketball  teams  were  some  of  the 
best  in  New  England.  The  New  England 
Championship  team's  picture  is  displayed  in 
the  Basketball  Hall  of  Fame  in  Springfield, 
Mass. 

Mr.  Bigler  began  his  career  in  the  produc- 
tion and  count  controls  departments  at 
Wyman-Gordon  in  1941.  The  next  year  he 
coached  the  company's  baseball  team  to  the 
Industrial  League  and  city  championships.  He 
was  an  avid  hunter  and  fisherman  and  in- 
structed Shrewsbury  Sportsman's  Club 
members  in  the  use,  care,  and  safety  of 
firearms. 

Karl  E    Herrick,  '10,  of  Laguna  Hills,  Cali- 
fornia died  in  January. 

From  1912  until  1950  he  was  with  Norton 
Co.  in  Worcester.  He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma 
Delta  and  the  Shrine. 

He  was  born  on  August  31,  1885  in 
Winchendon,  Mass.,  later  graduating  from 
WPI  in  1910  as  a  chemist. 


James  P.  Allardice,  '14,  died  on  May  7, 
1975  in  Somerset,  Massachusetts. 

A  native  of  Fall  River,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  June  3,  1891.  In  1914  he  graduated  from 
WPI  with  his  BS  in  civil  engineering.  A  reg- 
istered professional  engineer  and  land 
surveyor,  he  began  his  career  in  the  Fall  River 
Engineering  Department.  Later  he  worked  for 
Stone  and  Webster.  Prior  to  his  retirement  in 
1959,  he  was  with  the  State  Department  of 
Public  Works. 

Mr.  Allardice  served  for  two  terms  on  the 
Somerset  Planning  Board.  He  belonged  to 
the  Massachusetts  Consistory,  SPRS,  32nd 
degree;  and  the  Retired  State,  County,  and 
Municipal  Employees  Association. 

Leon  W.  Dunbar,  '16,  of  Tampa,  Florida 
passed  away  on  January  24,  1975  following  a 
long  illness. 

He  was  born  on  April  7,  1893  at 
Canadensis,  Pa.  In  1916  he  graduated  as  a 
mechanical  engineer  from  WPI.  For  many 
years  he  was  a  district  manager  for  the 
Clarage  Fan  Co.,  Cleveland,  Ohio  from  which 
he  retired  in  1955.  Mr.  Dunbar  was  a  member 
of  Alpha  Tau  Omega  fraternity  and  Skull. 

Retired  Army  Col.  Harold  A.  Maxfield,  '16, 

a  former  faculty  member  at  WPI,  died  on 
May  19,  1975  at  the  age  of  81. 

He  was  born  on  Sept.  24,  1893  in  Lowell, 
Mass.  and  graduated  as  an  electrical 
engineer  from  WPI  in  1916.  Following  duty  as 
an  Army  officer  in  France  during  World  War 
I,  he  became  a  research  engineer  at  the 
Westinghouse  Research  Laboratory.  From 
1921  until  1946  he  was  a  professor  in  the 
electrical  engineering  department  at  WPI.  He 
was  head  of  the  EE  Department  at  the  U.S. 
Naval  War  College  in  Newport,  R.I.  from  1947 
to  1952,  and  also  lectured  at  Brown  Univer- 
sity. For  two  years  he  was  commandant  of 
the  U.S.  Army  Officers  Reserve  School  in 
Rhode  Island.  From  1952  until  1959  he  was  a 
professor  and  EE  department  head  at 
Norwich  University,  where  he  retired  as  a 
Professor  Emeritus. 

Col.  Maxfield,  who  supervised  over  1200 
students  and  instructors  at  the  Coast  Artillery 
School  (Monroe,  Va.)  during  World  War  II, 
was  a  life  member  of  AIEE  and  ASEE.  He 
was  also  a  registered  professional  engineer  in 
Massachusetts  and  belonged  to  Tau  Beta  Pi, 
Sigma  Xi,  and  Lambda  Chi  Alpha.  He  wrote 
many  articles  on  teaching  and  supervised  the 
writing  of  "Confidential  Training  Manual, 
U.S.  Navy."  He  also  instituted  a  course  in 
industrial  engineering  which  was  taught  at 
WPI  from  1924  until  1950. 

Winthrop  S.  Pratt,  '16,  of  Darien,  Connec- 
ticut passed  away  last  year. 

He  was  born  in  1891  in  Grafton,  Mass., 
later  becoming  a  student  at  WPI.  During  his 
career  he  was  with  Heald  Machine  Co., 
Worcester;  Toledo  (Ohio)  Machine  and  Tool 
Co.;  National  Acme  Co.,  Windsor,  Vt.; 
Waltham  (Mass.)  Watch  Co.;  and  William  L. 
Fletcher,  personnel  counselors,  in  Boston.  He 
was  a  member  of  Phi  Gamma  Delta 
fraternity. 


Walton  B.  Scott,  '16,  of  San  Diego, 
California  died  suddenly  on  February  18,  1975 
at  the  age  of  79. 

A  native  of  Danielson,  Conn.,  he  later 
graduated  from  WPI  as  a  chemist.  During  his 
career  he  was  with  the  U.S.  Bureau  of  Mines; 
National  Aniline  and  Chemical  Co.,  Buffalo, 
N.Y.;  and  Hooker  Chemical  Corp.,  Niagara 
Falls,  N.Y.,  where  he  retired  as  technical 
superintendent  in  1961  following  35  years  of 
service. 

Mr.  Scott,  a  former  president  of  the 
Western  New  York  Chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association,  belonged  to  Delta  Tau,  now 
Sigma  Phi  Epsilon  fraternity,  and  served  as 
chairman  of  the  Western  New  York  section 
of  the  American  Chemical  Society.  He  was 
with  the  Chemical  Warfare  Service  (defense 
research)  during  World  War  I  and  was  a 
member  of  Sigma  Xi  and  Tau  Beta  Pi. 


John  O.  Archibald,  '18,  died  in  East  Aurora, 
New  York  on  March  29,  1975. 

He  was  born  on  June  5,  1895  at  Santa 
Cruz,  Calif.  After  studying  at  WPI,  he  was 
with  Gould  Storage  Battery  Co.,  Depew,  N.Y. 
for  eight  years.  He  then  became  a  manufac- 
turer's agent  in  the  refractory  and  foundry 
supply  field,  a  business  which  he  operated  in 
Buffalo  prior  to  his  retirement  in  1963. 

Mr.  Archibald  was  a  pioneer  in  amateur 
radio,  a  field  he  entered  in  1911  and 
maintained  an  interest  in  throughout  his  life. 
He  belonged  to  Phi  Gamma  Delta  fraternity, 
was  a  past  president  of  the  Western  New 
York  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association,  and 
served  as  a  lieutenant  in  the  U.S.  Army 
Signal  Corps  during  World  War  I. 


Myron  C.  Goddard,  '21,  of  Westerville,  Ohio 
passed  away  last  December. 

He  was  born  on  June  29,  1896  in  Sidney, 
Me.,  and  graduated  from  WPI  in  1921  as  an 
electrical  engineer.  From  1921  until  1924  he 
was  with  Western  Electric  Company  and 
from  1925  until  his  retirement  in  1961  with 
Bell  Telephone  Laboratories,  Inc.  He 
belonged  to  AIEE. 


Raymond  A.  Lane,  '21,  of  Florence,  South 
Carolina,  died  on  November  22,  1974. 

He  was  born  on  August  30,  1898  in  North 
Brookfield,  Mass.  In  1921  he  received  his 
BSEE  from  WPI.  During  his  career  he  was 
with  Western  Electric,  Chicago;  West- 
inghouse Electric  and  Manufacturing  Co., 
East  Pittsburgh;  Safety  Car  Heating  & 
Lighting  Co.,  New  Haven;  F.A.D.  Andrea, 
Inc.,  Long  Island;  and  Aerovox  Corp., 
Brooklyn. 

Later  he  was  chief  engineer  at  Pyramid 
Electric  Co.,  Darlington,  S.C.  After  retiring 
from  General  Instrument  as  director  of 
research  and  engineering  in  1964,  he  spent  a 
year  in  Mexico  City  as  a  consultant  engineer 
at  Mexican  Capacitor  Co.  He  was  a  life 
member  of  AIEE  and  a  Shriner. 


38  WPI  Journal 


C.  Sture  Carlson,  '26,  passed  away  at  his 
home  in  Harwich,  Massachusetts  on  April  18, 
1975.  He  was  71  years  old. 

For  thirty  years  he  was  a  plant  engineer  at 
Norton  Co.,  Worcester,  retiring  in  1969.  While 
with  the  company  he  traveled  extensively  in 
this  country  and  abroad  doing  construction 
work.  He  was  also  associated  with  Mid-West 
Abrasive  Co;  Peninsula  Grinding  Wheel  Co.; 
Tennessee  Eastman  Corp;  the  city  of  Wor- 
cester; International  Power  &  Paper  Co;  Big 
Four  R.R.;  and  Blackstone  Valley  Gas  and 
Electric. 

He  was  born  on  March  2,  1904  in 
Varmland,  Sweden  and  graduated  from  WPI 
as  a  civil  engineer  in  1926.  A  member  of  Phi 
Sigma  Kappa,  Skull,  and  the  Cape  Cod 
Power  Squadron,  he  was  also  active  in 
scouting  and  Algonquin  Council  BSA  for 
over  twenty  years.  He  served  as  town 
engineer  in  Northboro  and  was  a  registered 
professional  engineer. 


Wallace  H.  Tucker,  '26,  died  at  his  home  in 
Buffalo,  New  York  on  March  20,  1975.  He 
was  70. 

A  native  of  Webster,  Mass.,  he  graduated 
from  WPI  in  1926  as  an  electrical  engineer. 
For  many  years  he  was  a  sales  engineer  for 
Westinghouse  Electric  Corp.,  Buffalo.  He 
retired  in  1965. 


Richard  H.  Martin,  '32,  died  in  Worcester 
on  March  31,  1975.  He  was  64  years  old. 

Five  years  ago  he  retired  as  a  civil  engineer 
from  E.J.  Cross  Co.,  Worcester,  after  32 
years  of  service.  He  was  born  in  Worcester 
on  August  9,  1910  and  graduated  from  WPI 
in  1932. 

Mr.  Martin  was  secretary-treasurer  of  the 
Boylston  Sportsmen's  Club  from  1949  to 
1973.  During  World  War  II  he  was  with  the 
Army  Engineer  Corps  in  the  Pacific  theater. 


Francis  J.  Crowley,  '34,  a  tax  consultant 
with  H  Er  R  Block,  died  in  Scottsdale,  Ari- 
zona in  March. 

A  native  of  Fall  River,  Mass.,  he  was  born 
on  January  13,  1913.  During  his  lifetime  he 
was  an  executive  with  American  Tool  & 
Machine;  Harshaw  Chemical;  Ferro  Chemical 
Corp.,  Cleveland,  where  he  served  as  vice 
president;  and  Crowley-Thompson  Chemical 
Co.,  Cleveland,  where  he  was  president.  Two 
years  ago  he  retired  as  vice  president  of  the 
Essex  Chemical  Co.  in  Clifton,  N.J. 

Mr.  Crowley  was  a  member  of  the 
American  Chemical  Society,  the  American 
Ceramic  Society,  and  the  Chemists  Club  of 
New  Jersey.  He  was  a  community  director  of 
the  Red  Cross  and  a  past  president  of  the 
Cleveland  chapter  of  the  Alumni  Association. 
He  graduated  from  WPI  in  1934. 


awarded  a  trophy  in  1974.  He  was  active  with 
the  United  Fund,  Red  Cross,  and  YMCA,  and 
also  served  as  a  member  of  the  WPI  Ad- 
missions Committee  and  as  vice  president  of 
the  New  York  chapter  of  the  Alumni 
Association. 


Joseph  C.  Putelis,  '40,  died  in  Worcester  on 
March  25,  1975  at  the  age  of  57. 

He  was  a  chemist  and  sanitary  engineer  for 
34  years  for  the  city  of  Worcester  and  also 
worked  part  time  at  the  Worcester 
Foundation  for  Experimental  Biology  in 
Shrewsbury. 

Mr.  Putelis  was  born  on  March  2,  1918  in 
Worcester  and  belonged  to  the  American 
Chemical  Society.  He  graduated  from  WPI  in 
1940. 


Robert  S.  Foster,  '44,  associate  laboratory 
director  at  Columbus  (Ohio)  Coated  Fabrics 
Corp.,  died  in  February. 

He  was  born  on  February  13,  1923  in 
Boston  and  graduated  as  a  chemist  from 
WPI  in  1944.  After  service  with  the  U.S. 
Navy,  he  became  a  research  assistant  at 
M.I.T.  and  later  a  graduate  student  at  Ohio 
State.  For  many  years  he  was  with  Columbus 
Coated  Fabrics.  He  was  a  member  of  Lambda 
Chi  Alpha  fraternity. 


Henry  C.  Waite,  '27,  of  Cuyahoga  Falls, 
Ohio  passed  away  on  February  27,  1975. 

Born  in  Holyoke,  Mass.,  on  December  31, 
1904,  he  later  was  a  student  at  WPI.  At  the 
time  of  his  retirement  he  was  foreman  at 
Hammermill  Paper  Co.  and  was  the  owner  of 
Bix  Service  Furniture  Stripping  Co.  He 
belonged  to  Alpha  Tau  Omega. 


Russell  E.  Cobh,  '28,  died  on  May  19,  1975 
at  his  home  in  Spencer,  Massachusetts.  He 
was  77. 

He  retired  in  1963  after  34  years  as  fire 
protection  engineer  for  Factory  Insurance 
Association,  Hartford,  Conn.  A  native  of 
Holden,  Mass.,  he  was  born  on  April  20, 
1898.  After  graduating  as  a  mechanical  en- 
gineer from  WPI  in  1928  he  joined  the 
Factory  Insurance  Association  where  he 
worked  until  retirement. 

Mr.  Cobb  was  a  former  member  of  the 
Sons  of  the  American  Revolution. 


Wells  F.  Bausman,  '32,  a  self-employed 
mechanical  engineer,  died  on  March  11,  1975 
in  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  He  was  63. 

He  was  a  native  of  Chicopee,  Mass.  and 
graduated  with  a  BSME  from  WPI.  During 
his  career  he  was  associated  with  National 
Equipment  Co.;  United  American  Bosch 
Corp.;  duPont;  and  Mill  River  Tool  Co., 
Springfield,  Mass. 

Mr.  Bausman  was  a  Navy  commander  in 
World  War  II,  serving  in  the  South  Pacific. 
He  received  a  commendation  as  a  submarine 
repair  officer.  A  member  of  Sigma  Alpha 
Epsilon  fraternity,  he  also  belonged  to  the 
Society  of  Professional  Engineers. 


Marcus  Abelson,  '35,  a  retired  engineer  for 
the  U.S.  Department  of  Interior,  died  on 
March  4,  1975  in  Ross,  California. 

Born  on  August  15,  1911  in  Worcester,  he 
received  his  BSEE  from  WPI  in  1935.  After 
working  as  an  engineer  at  Worcester  State 
Hospital  and  the  Federal  Power  Commission 
in  Washington,  D.C.,  he  joined  the  Dept.  of 
the  Interior,  also  in  Washington.  While  with 
the  department  he  was  transferred  to  Boston, 
where  he  became  a  regional  coordinator.  Last 
year  he  retired  following  35  years  of  service. 
"  In  July  of  1973  he  received  a  citation  for 
meritorious  service  from  former  Secretary 
Rogers  C.B.  Morton.  He  was  a  certified 
professional  engineer. 


James  J.  Gushaw,  '35,  of  Chesterfield, 
Missouri  died  on  March  20,  1975  at  the  age 
of  62. 

He  was  born  in  Korce,  Albania  on  September 
20,  1913.  In  1935  he  received  his  BSCE  from 
WPI.  From  1935  until  1940  he  was  with 
Stone  &•  Webster  Engineering  Corp.  Later  he 
was  an  associate  engineer  in  the  Panama 
Canal  Zone,  served  in  the  U.S.  Army,  and 
worked  for  Weyerhaeuser  Timber  Co.  In  1950 
he  joined  Sverdrup  &  Parcel  and  Associates, 
Inc.,  St.  Louis,  Mo.  At  the  time  of  his  death 
he  was  principal  engineer  and  project 
manager  of  the  consulting  firm. 

Mr.  Gushaw,  a  registered  professional 
engineer  in  ten  states,  three  Canadian 
provinces,  and  the  Panama  Canal  Zone,  had 
served  as  an  elected  officer  in  the 
Professional  Engineering  Society.  He  was 
also  a  member  of  the  American  Association 
for  the  Advancement  of  Science.  For  his 
work  with  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America  and 
the  Queen  Scouts  of  Canada,  he  was 


Thomas  W.  O'Brien,  '46,  was  killed  in  an 
airplane  crash  in  Barnwell  County,  South 
Carolina  on  June  24,  1974. 

He  was  a  production  test  pilot  with 
Grumman  Aerospace  Corp.  in  Savannah,  Ga., 
where  he  also  served  as  chief  training  in- 
structor. He  was  born  on  August  15,  1925  in 
Portsmouth,  N.H. 


Paul  J.  Sroka,  '64,  was  killed  in  a  gyro- 
copter  crash  in  Ocotillo  Wells,  California  last 
winter.  He  was  32  years  old. 

Born  on  January  27,  1943  in  Webster, 
Mass.,  he  graduated  as  an  electrical,  engineer 
from  WPI  in  1964.  In  1965  he  received  his 
MSEE  from  Polytechnic  Institute  in  Brooklyn 
and  in  1970  he  received  his  MS  in  space 
physics  from  U.C.L.A. 

At  the  start  of  his  career  he  was  associated 
with  Wheeler  Laboratories,  Smithtown,  N.Y., 
and  Hazeltine  Corp.,  Plainview,  N.Y.,  where 
he  was  a  senior  engineer  in  the  research  lab. 
Later  he  joined  Transco  Products,  Inc.,  in 
Venice  Calif.,  as  a  group  supervisor.  From 
1972  to  1974  he  was  a  senior  engineer  in  the 
electro-magnetic  systems  division  at  the 
Raytheon  Company  in  Goleta,  Calif.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  was  a  senior  staff 
engineer  with  Teledyne  Micronetics  in  San 
Diego. 

Mr.  Sroka,  whose  article,  "Nomograph 
Saves  Time  In  Converting  Antenna  Gain," 
appeared  in  the  March  '74  issue  of  Micro- 
waves, was  a  member  of  Sigma  Pi,  Eta 
Kappa  Nu,  and  Sigma  Xi. 


WPI  Journal  I  August  1975  I  39 


Mr.  Keen,  Tracer  of  Missing 
Persons  —  We  have  a  few 
hundred  people  wed  like  to  have 
addresses  for 


If  any  Journal  readers  can  help  us 
locate  any  of  the  alumni  on  the 
following  list,  we'd  be  most  grateful. 


Samuel  A.  A.  Aaron  '39 
S.  Richard  Abbott  '39 
Marcus  Abelson  '35 
Edward  J.  Abendschein  '35 
Winfred  M.  Adams  '02 
David  Adelstein  '28 
David  M.  Alden  70 
LT.  J.  Warren  Alford  '61 
William  S.  Allan  Jr.  '43 
James  P.  Allardice  '14 
Elliott  A.  Allen  '08 
Subhashchandra  N.  Amin  '67 
Alfred  F.  Andersen  '41 
Frederick  A.  Andersen  Jr.  '75 
David  D.  Andre  '70 
Stanley  C.  Andrukonis  '53 
Stanley  J.  Andrysiak  '64 
Edward  L.  Anton  '18 
John  T.  Apostolos  '65 
Antonio  Aranguren  '56 
Karen  L.  Arbige  '75 
John  D.  Archibald  '18 
Muammer  Arikan  '70 
David  B.  Armitage  70 
Ozden  Asian  '60 
William  F.  Atwood  Jr.  '36 
Sidney  H.  Avery  '24 
Hooshang  Azma  75 
Chester  A.  Bacon  '03 
Thomas  J.  Bagley  '53 
David  A.  Bailey  72 
Louis  J.  Baldini  '44 
Kinsley  A.  Ball  Jr.  '49 
Robert  A.  Balouskus  '68 
John  J.  Balsavage  '37 
Philip  L.  Barbaccia  '50 
Benjamin  B.  Barker  Jr.  '48 
Stephen  J.  Barlow  71 
Bernard  Baron  '64 
Robert  W.  Bartlett  '16 
Wells  F.  Bausman  '32 
Paul  M.  Bazmet  73 
Edward  G.  Beckwith  '97 
John  A.  Beede  '59 
Jacques  R.  Belair  '61 
Marcel  R.  Benjamin  '67 
Irwin  G    Benkert  '46 
Alan  E    Benson  '59 
Jeoffrey  N.  Berg  71 
Thomas  G    Bergin  '30 
Edward  Berman  73 
Robert  G    Bertrand  '66 

i  Bhat  72 
Satish  H.  Bhatt  '66 
Vithal  Kanji  Bhimani  73 
Jose  R    Biamon  '47 
George  A    Bijur  '21 
Roger  R    Billings  '58 
John  A    Birch  '34 
Karl  H    Bissell  Jr    '53 


Gaeiand  Biuso  '46 

Robert  A.  Bleau  '59 

George  R.  Bolduc  '61 

Ju  Hak  Bong  72 

Kayhan  Boro  '61 

Michael  W.  Boyd  '65 

Haines  J.  Boyle  '62 

Yigit  Bozkurt  '62 

Arthur  B.  Brainerd  Jr.  '32 

James  R.  Braithwaite  '67 

Santo  M.  Bramande  '57 

Henry  W.  Brandt  '60 

Robert  D.  Britton  '62 

Kenneth  G.  Broman  '25 

Arthur  D.  Brook  '60 

Ellis  R.  Brown  '33 

Harrison  G.  Brown  '12 

Richard  T.  Brown  '44 

Burgess  P.  Brownson  '41 

Lennart  Brune  '40 

Thomas  G.  Burns  72 

David  M.  Burwen  '66 

George  W.  Busby  Jr.  '36 

George  Cagen  '43 

John  F.  Campanella  70 

Donald  M.  Campbell  '45 

Mehmet  I.  Can  '62 

Athanassios  H.  Canatsoulis  '67 

Demetrios  H.  Canatsoulis  70 

Donald  T.  Canfield  '19 

William  M.  Cannon  '60 

Robert  M.  Cape  '35 

David  I.  Caplan  '48 

Miss  Joyce  L  Caplovich  73 

Fred  B.  Carlisle  '17 

C.  Sture  Carlson  '26 

Ernest  J.  Carlson  '50 

Francis  D.  Carlstrom  '31 

Fred  A.  Carmody  '50 

Lyle  W.  Carpenter  '41 

Gary  P.  Cassery  '66 

Victor  B.  Castellani  '62 

Fernando  Castillo  '67 

Omer  M.  Cavusoglu  '66 

Paul  Y.  Chan  '63 

John  H.  Chapman  '37 

Ramjibhai  Chaudhari  72 

Krishnakumar  V.  Chaudhary  '64 

Mon  Her  Chen  73 

Robert  A.  Cherry  '68 

Suman  Chamanlal  Choksi  74 

Tzu-Hzu  Chou  '25 

George  C.  Chow  '27 

Yal  W.  Chow  '27 

Morris  C.  Chu  '42 

Dr   Jo  Chad  Chueh  '60 

Bok  Nam  Chung  73 

James  E.  Clampett  '55 

James  H.  Clancy  '90 

F.  Boardman  Clapp  '05 


Dr.  William  G.  Clark  '69 
Class  of  1934  '34 
Paul  A.  Cnossen  '56 
Russel  E.  Cobb  '28 
Martin  R.  Cohen  '53 
Donald  C.  Connelly  70 
John  M.  Considine  '46 
George  M.  Cooley  '51 
Alan  K.  Cooper  '64 
Richard  D.  Cooper  '60 
Lester  E.  Couture  73 
Ellsworth  R.  Cramer  '51 
Charles  E.  Crang  '25 
Francis  J.  Crowley  '34 
Eduardo  Cruz  '61 
Edward  L.  Cullen  '96 
Gungor  Dagistanli  '60 
Kathryn  H.  Dagostino  73 

(Zawislak) 
John  F.  Daly  '58 
Patrick  S.  Daly  73 
Per  Arthur  Damslet  74 
Anthony  L.  Daoundakis  '46 
Mahendra  K.  Dave  '67 
Shailesh  V.  Dave  '66 
Dr.  Sharadchandra  M.  Dave  71 
Philip  K.  Davis  '21 
Ronald  P.  Defalco  73 
John  V.  Delany  '38 
Ernest  E.  Demar  '53 
Michael  J.  Demoga  70 
Raymond  G.  Desrochers  '35 
Harold  J.  Devlin  '48 
Arthur  M.  Dickey  '65 
Mahesh  S.  Dixet  '65 
Edward  F.  Donohue  '32 
Terry  W.  Donovan  '61 
Sharad  B.  Doshi  '66 
Forest  M.  Douglass  Jr.  '21 
Cornelius  J.    Doyle  '33 
Evan  G.  Duane  '61 
James  R.  Duca  '61 
John  A.  Dufault  '24 
Leon  W.  Dunbar  '16 
Alfred  E.  Dunham  '65 
Harry  W.  F.  Dunklee  '01 
Everett  W.  Dunlap  '43 
Robert  J.  Dunn  '58 
Terrence  M.  Dupuis  '60 
Victor  A.  Dushku  '64 
LT.  Robert  B.  Edwards  '65 
LT.  Robert  J.  Ellis  '68 
Warren  L.  Ellis  '15 
Frank  Ellsworth  '37 
Carl  G.  Englund  '20 
Alvar  O.  Ericson  '30 
Wilton  A.  Ericson  '46 
Eric  S.  Ericsson  '19 
Howard  M.  Estes  '20 
Roger  E.  Etherington  70 
Capt.  Harry  G.  Fager  Jr.  '64 
Nadher  Family  72 
Joseph  T.  Fanning  '22 
Thomas  W.  Farnsworth  '16 


Roland  0.  Farrar  '37 
Louis  C.  S.  Fernandes  '62 
James  Ferraris  75 
George  H.  Finlay  '28 
Thomas  E.  Fitzpatrick  '68 
Gerald  Fleit  '50 
August  L.  Flotteron  Jr.  '47 
Allan  W.  Forbes  '10 
Irving  W.  Forde  '39 
Richard  A.  Formato  '68 
Ralph  S.  Forsstedt  '06 
Robert  S.  Foster  '44 
James  F.  Fournier  '57 
Edward  T.  Fox  Jr.  '30 
Burton  Franklin  '42 
Rein  C.  Freeberg  '67 
Robert  A.  Frenette  '64 
Theodore  C.  Fritz  Jr.  '53 
Philip  R.  Gaudet  Jr.  '67 
David  B.  George  '48 
Gordon  B.  George  '32 
G.  Wayne  Gibbs  Jr.  70 
Frank  G.  Gifford  '16 
George  G.  Gleisberg  '34 
Myron  C.  Goddard  '21 
Francis  J.  B.  Goddu  '62 
Suat  Gonen  '61 
Ronald  S.  Gosk  '67 
Milton  W.  Graff  '21 
James  Gordon  Graham  72 
Richard  C.  Graham  '67 
Robert  N.  Gregoroff  '46 
Thomas  W.  Greisamer  '63 
Elmer  R.  Griffith  Jr.  '49 
Ralph  H.  Griswold  '62 
Joseph  D.  Grzyb  Jr.  '57 
Roland  H.  Guay  '47 
Stanley  M.  Gunn  '13 
Jagdish  C.  Gupta  70 
James  J.  Gushaw  '35 
Preston  W.  Hale  '24 
George  E.  Hammond  '64 
Robert  E.  Hancock  '15 
Francis  W.  Harney  '22 
Clifford  R.  Harris  '96 
George  H.  Harrison  '07 
Robert  P.  Hart  71 
Richard  D.  Hartley  '62 
G.  William  Hartman  '63 
David  L.  Hartwell  '42 
Frederick  V.  Haskell  '26 
Lewis  S.  Haskins  '31 
Walter  H.  Hatch  '46 
Roland  D.  Hawkins  '15 
C.  William  Hayes  '61 
Howard  H.  Haynes  '07 
Stephen  S.  Haynes  '33 
Capt.  Herbert  W.  Head  '63 
Thomas  J.  Healey  Jr.  '36 
Robert  F.  Hellen  '67 
Christopher  A.  Herbert  '46 
Karl  E.  Herrick  '10 
Charles  A.  Heyelman  '48 
Capt.  John  Richard  Hilyard  '68 
Morey  L.  Hodgman  '50 
Cmdr.  Kenneth  B.  Hofstra  '45 
Frank  0.  Holmes  Jr.  '35 
Raymon  T.  Holmes  '24 
Leon  Hoogasian  '51 
William  M.  Hovenesian  '46 
Laurence  M.  Howarth  '39 
George  K.  Howe  '01 
John  E.  Howe  '27 
1  /  LT.  Edward  E.  Howe  70 
Prof.  Douglas  E.  Howes  '20 
John  D.  Hoyt  '68 
Andrew  Ann  Shong  Huang  70 
Roger  B.  Hubbell  '09 
Albert  L.  Humphrey  '12 


40  WPI  Journal 


"The  day  I  had  this  book  printed, 
I  had  no  idea  I'd  wake  up  six 
months  later  with  Tygon  tubing 
protruding  from  my  abdomen. 


Stanley  C.  Deen.  Production  Manager 
Northlich,  Stolley,  Advertising  Agency  for  Norton  Company  and  Tygon  Tubing  Products 


I  had  open  heart  surgery  —  a  saphenous  vein 
transplant.  And  I'm  not  trying  to  tell  you  I  came 
out  of  the  anesthetic  shouting  "Hooray  for 
Tygon!"  I  wasn't  shouting  anything;  the 
respiratortubein  my  throat  prevented  uttering 
a  word. 

But,  I  will  tell  you  it  was  reassuring  to  dis- 
cover later  that  the  tubing  used  to  maintain 
my  vital  bodily  functions  was  Tygon  tubing. 

Because  I've  worked  with  Norton  for  1 1  years 
and  I've  observed  first-hand  the  rigorous  qual- 
ity checks  that  go  into  Tygon  tubing.  Raw 
materials  checks.  Production  checks.  Batch- 
to-batch  consistency  checks. 

And  last  March,  I  supervised  production  of  the 


book  I'm  holding  here.  Probably  the  only  one 
of  its  kind  in  existence.  It  documents,  quanti- 
tatively, all  the  health  and  safety  claims  made 
for  Tygon  tubing. 

Tests  cited  in  it  exceed  requirements  for  a  USP 
Class  VI  plastics  rating.  There's  no  other  plas- 
tic tubing  we  know  of  that's  subjected  to  such 
extensive  testing  with  results  recorded  and 
published  for  all  the  world  to  see. 

But  only  when  I  lay  in  intensive  care  did  I 
realize  the  full  significance  of  these  very  spe- 
cial precautions  to  patient  and  surgical  team. 
Recovery  depends  on  them,  I  am  so  happy  to 
be  able  to  tell  you. 


Tygon  tubing  formulations  S-50-HL  and 
S-54-HL  are  specifically  developed,  pro- 
duced and  tested  for  safety  and  perform- 
ance as  a  biocompatible,  clear,  flexible 
composition,  and  are  the  accepted  stand- 
ard of  excellence  for  many  applications  in 
the  health  care  field. 

Their  physical,  chemical  and  biological 
properties  insure  maximum  safety,  reli- 


ability and  performance  when  used  where 
direct  and  indirect  contact  with  body  fluids, 
tissues  and  parenteral  solutions  are  re- 
quired. 

Based  on  current  guidelines,  both  formula- 
tions meet  criteria  of  a  USP  Class  VI 
rating.  Additional  biological  tests,  beyond 
requirements  of  Class  VI  materials,  are 
conducted  to  assure  the  highest  level  of 
safety  required  in  biomedical  applications. 


AVAILABLE  FROM  YOUR  AUTHORIZED  TYGON  TUBING  DISTRIBUTOR 


NORTON 


PLASTICS  AND  SYNTHETICS  DIVISION 

TUBING  AND  MOLDED  PRODUCTS     AKRON  OHIO  44309 


