Anno  1778 


•  w  w 


# 

# 

# 


PHILLIPS' ACADEMY  # 


OLIVER-WENDELL- HOLMES  * 


L I B  R  ARY 


0  rSa  r®si 


tSn  1® 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


The  W riting  of  Fiction 


Edith  Wharton 


Order  the  beauty  even  of  Beauty  is. 

— Thomas  Traherne. 


i 


CHARLES  SCRIBNER’S  SONS 

NEW  YORK  v  LONDON 

I9X5 


Copyright,  1924,  1925,  by 
CHARLES  SCRIBNER’S  SONS 


Copyright,  1925,  by  THE  YALE  PUBLISHING  ASSOCIATION,  Inc. 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


1861 


TO 

GAILLARD  LAPSLEY 


CONTENTS 


I. 

In  General . 

PAGE 

I 

II. 

Telling  a  Short  Story  . 

31 

III. 

Constructing  a  Novel  . 

59 

IV. 

Character  and  Situation  in 

the  Novel . 

123 

V. 

Marcel  Proust . 

149 

THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


I 

IN  GENERAL 


The  Writing  of  Fiction 


i 

IN  GENERAL 


I 


O  treat  of  the  practice  of  fiction  is  to 


J-  deal  with  the  newest,  most  fluid  and 
least  formulated  of  the  arts.  The  exploration 
of  origins  is  always  fascinating;  but  the  at¬ 
tempt  to  relate  the  modern  novel  to  the  tale 
of  Joseph  and  his  Brethren  is  of  purely  his¬ 
toric  interest. 

Modern  fiction  really  began  when  the  “ac¬ 
tion”  of  the  novel  was  transferred  from  the 
street  to  the  soul;  and  this  step  was  probably 
first  taken  when  Madame  de  La  Fayette,  in 
the  seventeenth  century,  wrote  a  little  story 
called  “La  Princesse  de  Cleves,”  a  story  of 
hopeless  love  and  mute  renunciation  in  which 
the  stately  tenor  of  the  lives  depicted  is 


3 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


hardly  ruffled  by  the  exultations  and  agonies 
succeeding  each  other  below  the  surface. 

The  next  advance  was  made  when  the  pro¬ 
tagonists  of  this  new  inner  drama  were  trans¬ 
formed  from  conventionalized  puppets — the 
hero,  the  heroine,  the  villain,  the  heavy 
father  and  so  on — into  breathing  and  recog¬ 
nizable  human  beings.  Here  again  a  French 
novelist — the  Abbe  Prevost — led  the  way 
with  “Manon  Lescaut”;  but  his  drawing  of 
character  seems  summary  and  schematic 
when  his  people  are  compared  with  the  first 
great  figure  in  modern  fiction — the  appalling 
“Neveu  de  Rameau.”  It  was  not  till  long 
after  Diderot’s  death  that  the  author  of  so 
many  brilliant  tales  peopled  with  eighteenth 
century  puppets  was  found,  in  the  creation  of 
that  one  sordid,  cynical  and  desolately  hu¬ 
man  figure,  to  have  anticipated  not  only 
Balzac  but  Dostoievsky. 

But  even  from  ‘‘Manon  Lescaut”  and  the 
‘‘Neveu  de  Rameau,”  even  from  Lesage,  De¬ 
foe,  Fielding,  Smollett,  Richardson,  and 
Scott,  modern  fiction  is  differentiated  by  the 

4 


IN  GENERAL 


great  dividing  geniuses  of  Balzac  and  Sten¬ 
dhal.  Save  for  that  one  amazing  accident  of 
Diderot’s,  Balzac  was  the  first  not  only  to 
see  his  people,  physically  and  morally,  in 
their  habit  as  they  lived,  with  all  their  per¬ 
sonal  hobbies  and  infirmities,  and  make  the 
reader  see  them,  but  to  draw  his  dramatic 
action  as  much  from  the  relation  of  his  char¬ 
acters  to  their  houses,  streets,  towns,  profes¬ 
sions,  inherited  habits  and  opinions,  as  from 
their  fortuitous  contacts  with  each  other. 

Balzac  himself  ascribed  the  priority  in  this 
kind  of  realism  to  Scott,  from  whom  the 
younger  novelist  avowedly  derived  his  chief 
inspiration.  But,  as  Balzac  observed,  Scott, 
so  keen  and  direct  in  surveying  the  rest  of 
his  field  of  vision,  became  conventional  and 
hypocritical  when  he  touched  on  love  and 
women.  In  deference  to  the  wave  of  prudery 
which  overswept  England  after  the  vulgar 
excesses  of  the  Hanoverian  court  he  substi¬ 
tuted  sentimentality  for  passion,  and  reduced 
his  heroines  to  “Keepsake”  insipidities; 
whereas  in  the  firm  surface  of  Balzac’s  real- 


5 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


ism  there  is  hardly  a  flaw,  and  his  women, 
the  young  as  well  as  the  old,  are  living  peo¬ 
ple,  as  much  compact  of  human  contradic¬ 
tions  and  torn  with  human  passions  as  his 
misers,  his  financiers,  his  priests  or  his  doc¬ 
tors. 

Stendhal,  though  as  indifferent  as  any 
eighteenth  century  writer  to  atmosphere  and 
“local  colour,”  is  intensely  modern  and  real¬ 
istic  in  the  individualizing  of  his  characters, 
who  were  never  types  (to  the  extent  even  of 
some  of  Balzac’s)  but  always  sharply  differ¬ 
entiated  and  particular  human  beings.  More 
distinctively  still  does  he  represent  the  new 
fiction  by  his  insight  into  the  springs  of  so¬ 
cial  action.  No  modern  novelist  has  ever 
gone  nearer  than  Racine  did  in  his  tragedies 
to  the  sources  of  personal,  of  individual  feel¬ 
ing;  and  some  of  the  French  novelists  of  the 
eighteenth  century  are  still  unsurpassed  (save 
by  Racine)  in  the  last  refinements  of  individ¬ 
ual  soul-analysis.  What  was  new  in  both 
Balzac  and  Stendhal  was  the  fact  of  their 
viewing  each  character  first  of  all  as  a  prod- 

6 


IN  GENERAL 


uct  of  particular  material  and  social  condi¬ 
tions,  as  being  thus  or  thus  because  of  the 
calling  he  pursued  or  the  house  he  lived  in 
(Balzac),  or  the  society  he  wanted  to  get 
into  (Stendhal),  or  the  acre  of  ground  he 
coveted,  or  the  powerful  or  fashionable  per¬ 
sonage  he  aped  or  envied  (both  Balzac  and 
Stendhal).  These  novelists  (with  the  solitary 
exception  of  Defoe,  when  he  wrote  “Moll 
Flanders’’)  are  the  first  to  seem  continuously 
aware  that  the  bounds  of  a  personality  are 
not  reproducible  by  a  sharp  black  line,  but 
that  each  of  us  flows  imperceptibly  into  ad¬ 
jacent  people  and  things. 

The  characterization  of  all  the  novelists 
who  preceded  these  two  masters  seems,  in 
comparison,  incomplete  or  immature.  Even 
Richardson’s  seems  so,  in  the  most  pene¬ 
trating  pages  of  “Clarissa  Harlowe,’’  even 
Goethe’s  in  that  uncannily  modern  novel, 
the  “Elective  Affinities” — because,  in  the 
case  of  these  writers,  the  people  so  elabo¬ 
rately  dissected  are  hung  in  the  void,  unvisu¬ 
alized  and  unconditioned  (or  almost)  by  the 

7 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


special  outward  circumstances  of  their  lives. 
They  are  subtly  analyzed  abstractions  of  hu¬ 
manity,  to  whom  only  such  things  happen 
as  might  happen  to  almost  any  one  in  any 
walk  of  life — the  inevitable  eternal  human 
happenings. 

Since  Balzac  and  Stendhal,  fiction  has 
reached  out  in  many  new  directions,  and 
made  all  sorts  of  experiments;  but  it  has 
never  ceased  to  cultivate  the  ground  they 
cleared  for  it,  or  gone  back  to  the  realm  of 
abstractions.  It  is  still,  however,  an  art  in 
the  making,  fluent  and  dirigible,  and  com¬ 
bining  a  past  full  enough  for  the  deduction 
of  certain  general  principles  with  a  future 
rich  in  untried  possibilities. 

II 

On  the  threshold  of  any  theory  of  art  its 
exponent  is  sure  to  be  asked:  “On  what  first 
assumption  does  your  theory  rest?”  And  in 
fiction,  as  in  every  other  art,  the  only  answer 
seems  to  be  that  any  theory  must  begin  by 
assuming  the  need  of  selection.  It  seems 

8 


IN  GENERAL 


curious  that  even  now— and  perhaps  more 
than  ever — one  should  have  to  explain  and 
defend  what  is  no  more  than  the  rule  under¬ 
lying  the  most  artless  verbal  statement.  No 
matter  how  restricted  an  incident  one  is  try¬ 
ing  to  give  an  account  of,  it  cannot  but  be 
fringed  with  details  more  and  more  remotely 
relevant,  and  beyond  that  with  an  outer  mass 
of  irrelevant  facts  which  may  crowd  on  the 
narrator  simply  because  of  some  accidental 
propinquity  in  time  or  space.  To  choose 
between  all  this  material  is  the  first  step 
toward  coherent  expression. 

A  generation  ago  this  was  so  generally 
taken  for  granted  that  to  state  it  would  have 
seemed  pedantic.  In  every-day  intercourse 
the  principle  survives  in  the  injunction  to 
stick  to  the  point;  but  the  novelist  who  ap¬ 
plies — or  owns  up  to  applying — this  rule  to 
his  art,  is  nowadays  accused  of  being  ab¬ 
sorbed  in  technique  to  the  exclusion  of  the 
supposedly  contrary  element  of  “human  in¬ 
terest.” 

Even  now,  the  charge  would  hardly  be 

9 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


worth  taking  up  had  it  not  lately  helped  to 
refurbish  the  old  trick  of  the  early  French 
“realists,”  that  group  of  brilliant  writers 
who  invented  the  once-famous  tranche  de  vie , 
the  exact  photographic  reproduction  of  a  sit¬ 
uation  or  an  episode,  with  all  its  sounds, 
smells,  aspects  realistically  rendered,  but 
with  its  deeper  relevance  and  its  suggestions 
of  a  larger  whole  either  unconsciously  missed 
or  purposely  left  out.  Now  that  half  a  cen¬ 
tury  has  elapsed,  one  sees  that  those  among 
this  group  of  writers  who  survive  are  still 
readable  in  spite  of  their  constricting  theory, 
or  in  proportion  as  they  forgot  about  it  once 
they  closed  with  their  subject.  Such  are  Mau¬ 
passant,  who  packed  into  his  brief  master¬ 
pieces  so  deep  a  psychological  significance 
and  so  sure  a  sense  of  larger  relations;  Zola, 
whose  “slices”  became  the  stuff  of  great 
romantic  allegories  in  which  the  forces  of 
Nature  and  Industry  are  the  huge  cloudy 
protagonists,  as  in  a  Pilgrim’s  Progress  of 
man’s  material  activities;  and  the  Goncourts, 
whose  French  instinct  for  psychological  anal- 


10 


IN  GENERAL 


ysis  always  made  them  seize  on  the  more 
significant  morsel  of  the  famous  slices.  As 
for  the  pupils,  the  mere  conscientious  appli- 
ers  of  the  system,  they  have  all  blown  away 
with  the  theory,  after  a  briefer  popularity 
than  writers  of  equal  talent  might  have  en¬ 
joyed  had  they  not  thus  narrowed  their 
scope.  An  instance  in  proof  is  Feydeau’s 
“Fanny,”  one  of  the  few  “psychological” 
novels  of  that  generation,  and  a  slight 
enough  adventure  in  soul-searching  com¬ 
pared  with  the  great  “Madame  Bovary” 
(which  it  was  supposed  at  the  time  to  sur¬ 
pass),  but  still  readable  enough  to  have  kept 
the  author’s  name  alive,  while  most  of  his 
minor  contemporaries  are  buried  under  the 
unappetizing  debris  of  their  “slices.” 

It  seemed  necessary  to  revert  to  the  slice  of 
life  because  it  has  lately  reappeared,  marked 
by  certain  unimportant  differences,  and  re¬ 
labelled  the  stream  of  consciousness;  and, 
curiously  enough,  without  its  new  expo¬ 
nents’  appearing  aware  that  they  are  not 
also  its  originators.  This  time  the  theory 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


seems  to  have  sprung  up  first  in  England  and 
America;  but  it  has  already  spread  to  certain 
of  the  younger  French  novelists,  who  are 
just  now,  confusedly  if  admiringly,  rather 
overconscious  of  recent  tendencies  in  English 
and  American  fiction. 

The  stream  of  consciousness  method  differs 
from  the  slice  of  life  in  noting  mental  as  well 
as  visual  reactions,  but  resembles  it  in  setting 
them  down  just  as  they  come,  with  a  delib¬ 
erate  disregard  of  their  relevance  in  the  par¬ 
ticular  case,  or  rather  with  the  assumption 
that  their  very  unsorted  abundance  consti¬ 
tutes  in  itself  the  author’s  subject. 

This  attempt  to  note  down  every  half- 
aware  stirring  of  thought  and  sensation,  the 
automatic  reactions  to  every  passing  impres¬ 
sion,  is  not  as  new  as  its  present  exponents 
appear  to  think.  It  has  been  used  by  most  of 
the  greatest  novelists,  not  as  an  end  in  itself, 
but  as  it  happened  to  serve  their  general  de¬ 
sign:  as  when  their  object  was  to  portray  a 
mind  in  one  of  those  moments  of  acute  men¬ 
tal  stress  when  it  records  with  meaningless 

12. 


IN  GENERAL 

precision  a  series  of  disconnected  impres¬ 
sions.  The  value  of  such  “effects”  in  making 
vivid  a  tidal  rush  of  emotion  has  never  been 
unknown  since  fiction  became  psychological, 
and  novelists  grew  aware  of  the  intensity 
with  which,  at  such  times,  irrelevant  trifles 
impinge  upon  the  brain;  but  they  have  never 
been  deluded  by  the  idea  that  the  subcon¬ 
scious — that  Mrs.  Harris  of  the  psycholo¬ 
gists — could  in  itself  furnish  the  materials 
for  their  art.  All  the  greatest  of  them,  from 
Balzac  and  Thackeray  onward,  have  made 
use  of  the  stammerings  and  murmurings  of 
the  half-conscious  mind  whenever — but  only 
when — such  a  state  of  mental  flux  fitted  into 
the  whole  picture  of  the  person  portrayed. 
Their  observation  showed  them  that  in  the 
world  of  normal  men  life  is  conducted,  at 
least  in  its  decisive  moments,  on  fairly  co¬ 
herent  and  selective  lines,  and  that  only  thus 
can  the  great  fundamental  affairs  of  bread¬ 
getting  and  home-and-tribe  organizing  be 
carried  on.  Drama,  situation,  is  made  out  of 
the  conflicts  thus  produced  between  social  or- 

*3 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


der  and  individual  appetites,  and  the  art  of 
rendering  life  in  fiction  can  never,  in  the  last 
analysis,  be  anything,  or  need  to  be  anything, 
but  the  disengaging  of  crucial  moments  from 
the  welter  of  existence.  These  moments  need 
not  involve  action  in  the  sense  of  external 
events;  they  seldom  have,  since  the  scene  of 
conflict  was  shifted  from  incident  to  char¬ 
acter.  But  there  must  be  something  that 
makes  them  crucial,  some  recognizable  rela¬ 
tion  to  a  familiar  social  or  moral  standard, 
some  explicit  awareness  of  the  eternal  strug¬ 
gle  between  man’s  contending  impulses,  if 
the  tales  embodying  them  are  to  fix  the  at¬ 
tention  and  hold  the  memory. 

Ill 

The  distrust  of  technique  and  the  fear  of 
being  unoriginal — both  symptoms  of  a  cer¬ 
tain  lack  of  creative  abundance — are  in  truth 
leading  to  pure  anarchy  in  fiction,  and  one  is 
almost  tempted  to  say  that  in  certain  schools 
formlessness  is  now  regarded  as  the  first  con¬ 
dition  of  form. 


IN  GENERAL 


Not  long  ago  I  heard  a  man  of  letters 
declare  that  Dostoievsky  was  superior  to 
Tolstoi  because  his  mind  was  “more  cha¬ 
otic,”  and  he  could  therefore  render  more 
“truthfully”  the  chaos  of  the  Russian  mind 
in  general;  though  how  chaos  can  be  appre¬ 
hended  and  defined  by  a  mind  immersed  in  it, 
the  speaker  did  not  make  clear.  The  asser¬ 
tion,  of  course,  was  the  result  of  confusing 
imaginative  emotivity  with  its  objective 
rendering.  What  the  speaker  meant  was  that 
the  novelist  who  would  create  a  given  group 
of  people  or  portray  special  social  conditions 
must  be  able  to  identify  himself  with  them; 
which  is  rather  a  long  way  of  saying  that 
an  artist  must  have  imagination. 

The  chief  difference  between  the  merely 
sympathetic  and  the  creative  imagination  is 
that  the  latter  is  two-sided,  and  combines 
with  the  power  of  penetrating  into  other 
minds  that  of  standing  far  enough  aloof  from 
them  to  see  beyond,  and  relate  them  to  the 
whole  stuff  of  life  out  of  which  they  but  par¬ 
tially  emerge.  Such  an  all-round  view  can  be 

*5 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

obtained  only  by  mounting  to  a  height;  and 
that  height,  in  art,  is  proportioned  to  the 
artist’s  power  of  detaching  one  part  of  his 
imagination  from  the  particular  problem  in 
which  the  rest  is  steeped. 

One  of  the  causes  of  the  confusion  of  judg¬ 
ment  on  this  point  is  no  doubt  the  perilous 
affinity  between  the  art  of  fiction  and  the 
material  it  works  in.  It  has  been  so  often 
said  that  all  art  is  re-presentation — the  giv¬ 
ing  back  in  conscious  form  of  the  shapeless 
raw  material  of  experience — that  one  would 
willingly  avoid  insisting  on  such  a  truism. 
But  while  there  is  no  art  of  which  the  saying 
is  truer  than  of  fiction,  there  is  none  in  re¬ 
spect  of  which  there  is  more  danger  of  the 
axiom’s  being  misinterpreted.  The  attempt  to 
give  back  any  fragment  of  life  in  painting  or 
sculpture  or  music  presupposes  transposition, 
“stylization.”  To  re-present  in  words  is  far 
more  difficult,  because  the  relation  is  so  close 
between  model  and  artist.  The  novelist 
works  in  the  very  material  out  of  which  the 
object  he  is  trying  to  render  is  made.  He  must 

16 


IN  GENERAL 


use,  to  express  soul,  the  signs  which  soul  uses 
to  express  itself.  It  is  relatively  easy  to  sep¬ 
arate  the  artistic  vision  of  an  object  from  its 
complex  and  tangled  actuality  if  one  has  to 
re-see  it  in  paint  or  marble  or  bronze;  it  is 
infinitely  difficult  to  render  a  human  mind 
when  one  is  employing  the  very  word-dust 
with  which  thought  is  formulated. 

Still,  the  transposition  does  take  place  as 
surely,  if  not  as  obviously,  in  a  novel  as  in  a 
statue.  If  it  did  not,  the  writing  of  fiction 
could  never  be  classed  among  works  of  art, 
products  of  conscious  ordering  and  selecting, 
and  there  would  consequently  be  nothing  to 
say  about  it,  since  there  seems  to  be  no  way 
of  estimating  aesthetically  anything  to  which 
no  standard  of  choice  can  be  applied. 

Another  unsettling  element  in  modern  art 
is  that  common  symptom  of  immaturity,  the 
dread  of  doing  what  has  been  done  before; 
for  though  one  of  the  instincts  of  youth  is 
imitation,  another,  equally  imperious,  is 
that  of  fiercely  guarding  against  it.  In  this 
respect,  the  novelist  of  the  present  day  is  in 

17 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


danger  of  being  caught  in  a  vicious  circle,  for 
the  insatiable  demand  for  quick  production 
tends  to  keep  him  in  a  state  of  perpetual  im¬ 
maturity,  and  the  ready  acceptance  of  his 
wares  encourages  him  to  think  that  no  time 
need  be  wasted  in  studying  the  past  history 
of  his  art,  or  in  speculating  on  its  principles. 
This  conviction  strengthens  the  belief  that 
the  so-called  quality  of  “originality”  may 
be  impaired  by  too  long  brooding  on  one’s 
theme  and  too  close  a  commerce  with  the 
past;  but  the  whole  history  of  that  past — in 
every  domain  of  art — disproves  this  by  what 
survives,  and  shows  that  every  subject,  to 
yield  and  to  retain  its  full  flavour,  should  be 
long  carried  in  the  mind,  brooded  upon,  and 
fed  with  all  the  impressions  and  emotions 
which  nourish  its  creator. 

True  originality  consists  not  in  a  new  man¬ 
ner  but  in  a  new  vision.  That  new,  that  per¬ 
sonal,  vision  is  attained  only  by  looking  long 
enough  at  the  object  represented  to  make  it 
the  writer’s  own;  and  the  mind  which  would 
bring  this  secret  germ  to  fruition  must  be 

18 


IN  GENERAL 


able  to  nourish  it  with  an  accumulated 
wealth  of  knowledge  and  experience.  To 
know  any  one  thing  one  must  not  only  know 
something  of  a  great  many  others,  but  also, 
as  Matthew  Arnold  long  since  pointed  out, 
a  great  deal  more  of  one’s  immediate  subject 
than  any  partial  presentation  of  it  visibly 
includes;  and  Mr.  Kipling’s  “What  should 
they  know  of  England  who  only  England 
know?’’  might  be  taken  as  the  symbolic 
watchword  of  the  creative  artist. 

One  is  sometimes  tempted  to  think  that 
the  generation  which  has  invented  the  “fic¬ 
tion  course’’  is  getting  the  fiction  it  deserves. 
At  any  rate  it  is  fostering  in  its  young  writers 
the  conviction  that  art  is  neither  long  nor 
arduous,  and  perhaps  blinding  them  to  the 
fact  that  notoriety  and  mediocrity  are  often 
interchangeable  terms.  But  though  the  trade- 
wind  in  fiction  undoubtedly  drives  many  be¬ 
ginners  along  the  line  of  least  resistance,  and 
holds  them  there,  it  is  far  from  being  the  sole 
cause  of  the  present  quest  for  short-cuts  in 
art.  There  are  writers  indifferent  to  popular 

*9 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


success,  and  even  contemptuous  of  it,  who 
sincerely  believe  that  this  line  marks  the  path 
of  the  true  vocation.  Many  people  assume 
that  the  artist  receives,  at  the  outset  of  his 
career,  the  mysterious  sealed  orders  known 
as  “Inspiration,”  and  has  only  to  let  that 
sovereign  impulse  carry  him  where  it  will. 
Inspiration  does  indeed  come  at  the  outset  to 
every  creator,  but  it  comes  most  often  as  an 
infant,  helpless,  stumbling,  inarticulate,  to 
be  taught  and  guided ;  and  the  beginner,  dur¬ 
ing  this  time  of  training  his  gift,  is  as  likely 
to  misuse  it  as  a  young  parent  to  make  mis¬ 
takes  in  teaching  his  first  child. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  in  this  day  of  gen¬ 
eral  “speeding  up,”  the  “inspirational”  the¬ 
ory  is  seductive  even  to  those  who  care  noth¬ 
ing  for  easy  triumphs.  No  writer — especially 
at  the  beginning  of  his  career— can  help 
being  influenced  by  the  quality  of  the  audi¬ 
ence  that  awaits  him;  and  the  young  novel¬ 
ist  may  ask  of  what  use  are  experience  and 
meditation,  when  his  readers  are  so  incapable 
of  giving  him  either.  The  answer  is  that 


2.0 


IN  GENERAL 


he  will  never  do  his  best  till  he  ceases  alto¬ 
gether  to  think  of  his  readers  (and  his  editor 
and  his  publisher)  and  begins  to  write,  not 
for  himself,  but  for  that  other  self  with  whom 
the  creative  artist  is  always  in  mysterious 
correspondence,  and  who,  happily,  has  an 
objective  existence  somewhere,  and  will 
some  day  receive  the  message  sent  to  him, 
though  the  sender  may  never  know  it.  As  to 
experience,  intellectual  and  moral,  the  cre¬ 
ative  imagination  can  make  a  little  go  a  long 
way,  provided  it  remains  long  enough  in  the 
mind  and  is  sufficiently  brooded  upon.  One 
good  heart-break  will  furnish  the  poet  with 
many  songs,  and  the  novelist  with  a  consid¬ 
erable  number  of  novels.  But  they  must  have 
hearts  that  can  break. 

Even  to  the  writer  least  concerned  with 
popularity  it  is  difficult,  at  first,  to  defend 
his  personality.  Study  and  meditation  con¬ 
tain  their  own  perils.  Counsellors  intervene 
with  contradictory  advice  and  instances.  In 
such  cases  these  counsellors  are  most  often 
other  people’s  novels:  the  great  novels  of  the 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


past,  which  haunt  the  beginner  like  a  pas¬ 
sion,  and  the  works  of  his  contemporaries, 
which  pull  him  this  way  and  that  with  too- 
persuasive  hands.  His  impulse,  at  first,  will 
be  either  to  shun  them,  to  his  own  impover¬ 
ishment,  or  to  let  his  dawning  individuality 
be  lost  in  theirs;  but  gradually  he  will  come 
to  see  that  he  must  learn  to  listen  to  them, 
take  all  they  can  give,  absorb  it  into  himself, 
and  then  turn  to  his  own  task  with  the  fixed 
resolve  to  see  life  only  through  his  own  eyes. 

Even  then  another  difficulty  remains;  the 
mysterious  discrepancy  which  sometimes  ex¬ 
ists  between  a  novelist’s  vision  of  life  and  his 
particular  kind  of  talent.  Not  infrequently  an 
innate  tendency  to  see  things  in  large  masses 
is  combined  with  the  technical  inability  to 
render  them  otherwise  than  separately,  me¬ 
ticulously,  on  a  small  scale.  Perhaps  more 
failures  than  one  is  aware  of  are  due  to  this 
particular  lack  of  proportion  between  the 
powers  of  vision  and  expression.  At  any  rate,  1 
it  is  the  cause  of  some  painful  struggles  and 
arid  dissatisfactions;  and  the  only  remedy  is 


IN  GENERAL 


resolutely  to  abandon  the  larger  for  the 
smaller  field,  to  narrow  one’s  vision  to 
one’s  pencil,  and  do  the  small  thing  closely 
and  deeply  rather  than  the  big  thing  loosely 
and  superficially.  Of  twenty  subjects  that 
tempt  the  imagination  (subjects  one  sees 
one’s  self  doing,  oh  so  wonderfully,  if  only 
one  were  Merimee  or  Maupassant,  or  Conrad 
or  Mr.  Kipling!)  probably  but  one  is  “fit  for 
the  hand’’  of  the  limited  person  one  happens 
to  be;  and  to  learn  to  renounce  the  others  is 
a  first  step  toward  doing  that  particular  one 
well. 

IV 

These  considerations  have  led  straight  to 
the  great,  the  central,  matter  of  subject;  and 
inextricably  interwoven  with  it  are  the  sub¬ 
sidiary  points  of  form  and  style,  both  of 
which  ought,  as  it  were,  to  spring  naturally 
out  of  the  particular  theme  chosen  for 
representation. 

Form  might  perhaps,  for  present  purposes, 
be  defined  as  the  order,  in  time  and  impor- 

2-3 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


tance,  in  which  the  incidents  of  the  narrative 
are  grouped;  and  style  as  the  way  in  which 
they  are  presented,  not  only  in  the  narrower 
sense  of  language,  but  also,  and  rather,  as 
they  are  grasped  and  coloured  by  their  me¬ 
dium,  the  narrator’s  mind,  and  given  back  in 
his  words.  It  is  the  quality  of  the  medium 
which  gives  these  incidents  their  quality; 
style,  in  this  sense,  is  the  most  personal  in¬ 
gredient  in  the  combination  of  things  out  of 
which  any  work  of  art  is  made.  Words  are 
the  exterior  symbols  of  thought,  and  it  is 
only  by  their  exact  use  that  the  writer  can 
keep  on  his  subject  the  close  and  patient  hold 
which  “fishes  the  murex  up,”  and  steeps  his 
creation  in  unfading  colours. 

Style  in  this  definition  is  discipline;  and 
the  self-consecration  it  demands,  and  the 
bearing  it  has  on  the  whole  of  the  artist’s 
effort,  have  been  admirably  summed  up  by 
Marcel  Proust  in  that  searching  chapter  of 
“A  l’Ombre  des  Jeunes  Filles  en  Fleurs” 
where  he  analyzes  the  art  of  fiction  in  the 
person  of  the  great  novelist  Bergotte.  “The 

M 


IN  GENERAL 


severity  of  his  taste,  his  unwillingness  to 
write  anything  of  which  he  could  not  say,  in 
his  favourite  phrase:  ‘ C’est  doux'  [harmoni¬ 
ous,  delicious],  this  determination,  which 
had  caused  him  to  spend  so  many  seemingly 
fruitless  years  in  the  ‘precious’  carving  of 
trifles,  was  in  reality  the  secret  of  his 
strength;  for  habit  makes  the  style  of  the 
writer  as  it  makes  the  character  of  the  man, 
and  the  author  who  has  several  times  con¬ 
tented  himself  with  expressing  his  thought 
in  an  approximately  pleasing  way  has  once 
and  for  all  Set  a  boundary  to  his  talent ,  and  will 
never  -pass  beyond. 

These  definitions  of  form  and  style  being 
established,  and  the  preliminary  need  of  the 
harmony  between  an  author’s  talent  and  his 
argument  being  assumed,  one  is  next  faced  by 
the  profounder  problem  of  the  inherent  fit¬ 
ness  of  any  given  subject  as  material  for  the 
imagination. 

It  has  been  often  said  that  subject  in  itself 
is  all-important,  and  at  least  as  often  that  it 
is  of  no  importance  whatever.  Definition  is 

2-5 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


again  necessary  before  the  truth  can  be  ex¬ 
tracted  from  these  contradictions.  Subject, 
obviously,  is  what  the  story  is  about;  but  what¬ 
ever  the  central  episode  or  situation  chosen 
by  the  novelist,  his  tale  will  be  about  only 
just  so  much  of  it  as  he  reacts  to.  A  gold 
mine  is  worth  nothing  unless  the  owner  has 
the  machinery  for  extracting  the  ore,  and 
each  subject  must  be  considered  first  in  itself, 
and  next  in  relation  to  the  novelist’s  power 
of  extracting  from  it  what  it  contains.  There 
are  subjects  trivial  in  appearance,  and  sub¬ 
jects  trivial  to  the  core;  and  the  novelist 
ought  to  be  able  to  discern  at  a  glance  be¬ 
tween  the  two,  and  know  in  which  case  it  is 
worth  while  to  set  about  sinking  his  shaft. 
But  the  novelist  may  make  mistakes.  He  is 
exposed  to  the  temptation  of  the  false  good- 
subject,  and  learns  only  by  prolonged  experi¬ 
ence  to  resist  surface-attractions,  and  probe 
his  story  to  the  depths  before  he  begins  to 
tell  it. 

There  is  still  another  way  in  which  sub¬ 
ject  must  be  tested.  Any  subject  considered 

2.6 


IN  GENERAL 


in  itself  must  first  of  all  respond  in  some  way 
to  that  mysterious  need  of  a  judgment  on  life  i/ 
of  which  the  most  detached  human  intellect, 
provided  it  be  a  normal  one,  cannot,  appar¬ 
ently,  rid  itself.  Whether  the  “moral”  be 
present  in  the  guise  of  the  hero  rescuing  the 
heroine  from  the  villain  at  the  point  of  the 
revolver,  or  whether  it  lurk  in  the  quiet 
irony  of  such  a  scene  as  Pendennis’s  visit  to 
the  Grey  Friars’  Chapel,  and  his  hearing  the 
choir  singing  “I  have  been  young,  and  now 
am  old;  yet  have  I  not  seen  the  righteous  for¬ 
saken,  nor  his  seed  begging  their  bread,”  at 
the  very  moment  when  he  discovers  the  bent 
head  of  Colonel  Newcome  among  the  pauper 
gentlemen — in  one  form  or  another  there 
must  be  some  sort  of  rational  response  to  the 
reader’s  unconscious  but  insistent  inner  ques¬ 
tion:  “What  am  I  being  told  this  story  for? 
What  judgment  on  life  does  it  contain  for 
me?” 

There  seems  to  be  no  escape  from  this  ob¬ 
ligation  except  into  a  pathological  world 
where  the  action,  taking  place  between  peo- 

2-7 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

pie  of  abnormal  psychology,  and  not  keep¬ 
ing  time  with  our  normal  human  rhythms, 
becomes  an  idiot’s  tale,  signifying  nothing. 
In  vain  has  it  been  attempted  to  set  up  a 
water-tight  compartment  between  “art”  and 
“morality.”  All  the  great  novelists  whose 
books  have  been  used  to  point  the  argument 
have  invariably  declared  themselves  on  the 
other  side,  not  only  by  the  inner  significance 
of  their  work,  but  also,  in  some  cases,  by  the 
most  explicit  statements.  Flaubert,  for  in¬ 
stance,  so  often  cited  as  the  example  of  the 
writer  viewing  his  themes  in  a  purely  “scien¬ 
tific”  or  amoral  light,  has  disproved  the 
claim  by  providing  the  other  camp  with  that 
perfect  formula:  "Plus  la  pensee  est  belle ,  plus 
la  phrase  est  sonore" — not  the  metaphor,  not 
the  picture,  but  the  thought. 

A  good  subject,  then,  must  contain  in  it¬ 
self  something  that  sheds  a  light  on  our 
moral  experience.  If  it  is  incapable  of  this 
expansion,  this  vital  radiation,  it  remains, 
however  showy  a  surface  it  presents,  a  mere 
irrelevant  happening,  a  meaningless  scrap  of 

2.8 


IN  GENERAL 


fact  tom  oiit  of  its  context.  Nor  is  it  more 
than  a  half-truth  to  say  that  the  imagination 
which  probes  deep  enough  can  find  this  germ 
in  any  happening,  however  insignificant. 
The  converse  is  true  enough:  the  limited 
imagination  reduces  a  great  theme  to  its 
own  measure.  But  the  wide  creative  vision, 
though  no  fragment  of  human  experience  can 
appear  wholly  empty  to  it,  yet  seeks  by  in¬ 
stinct  those  subjects  in  which  some  phase  of 
our  common  plight  stands  forth  dramatically 
and  typically,  subjects  which,  in  themselves, 
are  a  kind  of  summary  or  foreshortening  of 
life’s  dispersed  and  inconclusive  occurrences. 


2-9 


II 

TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 


II 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 
I 

EE  the  modern  novel,  the  modern  short 
story  seems  to  have  originated — or  at 
least  received  its  present  stamp — in  France. 
English  writers,  in  this  line,  were  slower  in 
attaining  the  point  to  which  the  French  and 
Russians  first  carried  the  art. 

Since  then  the  short  story  has  developed, 
and  reached  out  in  fresh  directions,  in  the 
hands  of  such  novelists  as  Mr.  Hardy  (only 
occasionally  at  his  best  in  this  form),  of  Ste¬ 
venson,  James,  and  Conrad,  all  three  almost 
unfailingly  excellent  in  it,  of  Mr.  Kipling, 
past-master  of  the  conte ,  and  Sir  Arthur  Quil- 
ler-Couch,  whose  delightful  early  volumes, 
“Noughts  and  Crosses”  and  “I  Saw  Three 
Ships,”  are  less  known  than  they  deserve  to 
be.  These  writers  had  long  been  preceded  by 
Scott  in  “Wandering  Willy’s  Tale”  and  other 
short  stories,  by  Poe,  the  sporadic  and  unac- 

33 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

countable,  and  by  Hawthorne;  but  almost  all 
the  best  tales  of  Scott,  Hawthorne,  and  Poe 
belong  to  that  peculiar  category  of  the  eerie 
which  lies  outside  of  the  classic  tradition. 

When  the  novel  of  manners  comes  to  be 
dealt  with,  classification  in  order  of  time 
will  have  to  be  reversed,  and  in  order  of 
merit  will  be  less  easy;  for  even  against  Bal¬ 
zac,  Tolstoy,  and  Turgenev  the  genius  of  the 
great  English  observers,  from  Richardson 
and  Jane  Austen  to  Thackeray  and  Dickens, 
will  weigh  heavily  in  the  balance.  With  re¬ 
gard  to  the  short  story,  however,  and  espe¬ 
cially  to  that  compactest  form  of  it,  the  short 
short-story  or  conte,  its  first  specimens  are  un¬ 
doubtedly  of  continental  production;  but 
happily  for  English  letters  the  generation 
who  took  over  and  adapted  the  formula 
were  nursed  on  the  Goethean  principle  that 
“those  who  remain  imprisoned  in  the  false 
notion  of  their  own  originality  will  always 
fall  short  of  what  they  might  have  accom¬ 
plished.’’ 

The  sense  of  form — already  defined  as  the 

34 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 


order,  in  time  and  importance,  in  which  the 
narrated  incidents  are  grouped — is,  in  all  the 
arts,  specifically  of  the  classic,  the  Latin  tra¬ 
dition.  A  thousand  years  of  form  (in  the  wid¬ 
est  disciplinary  sense),  of  its  observance,  its 
application,  its  tacit  acceptance  as  the  first 
condition  of  artistic  expression,  have  cleared 
the  ground,  for  the  French  writer  of  fiction, 
of  many  superfluous  encumbrances.  As  the 
soil  of  France  is  of  all  soils  the  most  weeded, 
tilled,  and  ductile,  so  the  field  of  art,  wher¬ 
ever  French  culture  extends,  is  the  most 
worked-over  and  the  most  prepared  for  what¬ 
ever  seed  is  to  be  sown  in  it. 

But  when  the  great  Russians  (who  owe  to 
French  culture  much  more  than  is  generally 
conceded)  took  over  that  neat  thing,  the 
French  nouvelle ,  they  gave  it  the  additional 
dimension  it  most  often  lacked.  In  any  really 
good  subject  one  has  only  to  probe  deep 
enough  to  come  to  tears;  and  the  Russians 
almost  always  dig  to  that  depth.  The  result 
has  been  to  give  to  the  short  story,  as  French 
and  Russian  art  have  combined  to  shape  it, 

35 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

great  closeness  of  texture  with  profundity  of 
form.  Instead  of  a  loose  web  spread  over  the 
surface  of  life  they  have  made  it,  at  its  best, 
a  shaft  driven  straight  into  the  heart  of 
human  experience. 

II 

Though  the  critic  no  longer  feels  that  need 
of  classifying  and  sub-classifying  the  genres 
which  so  preoccupied  the  contemporaries  of 
Wordsworth,  there  are,  in  all  the  arts,  cer¬ 
tain  local  products  that  seem  to  necessitate  a 
parenthesis. 

Such,  in  fiction,  is  the  use  of  the  super¬ 
natural.  It  seems  to  have  come  from  mysteri¬ 
ous  Germanic  and  Armorican  forests,  from 
lands  of  long  twilights  and  wailing  winds; 
and  it  certainly  did  not  pass  through  French 
or  even  Russian  hands  to  reach  us.  Sorcerers 
and  magic  are  of  the  south,  the  Mediterra¬ 
nean;  the  witch  of  Theocritus  brewed  a  brew 
fit  for  her  sister-hags  of  the  Scottish  heath; 
but  the  spectral  apparition  walks  only  in  the 
pages  of  English  and  Germanic  fiction. 

36 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

It  has  done  so,  to  great  effect,  in  some  of 
the  most  original  of  our  great  English  short 
stories,  from  Scott’s  “Wandering  Willy”  and 
Poe’s  awful  hallucinations  to  Le  Fanu’s 
“Watcher,”  and  from  the  “Thrawn  Janet” 
of  Stevenson  to  “The  Turn  of  the  Screw”  of 
Henry  James,  last  great  master  of  the  eerie  in 
English. 

All  these  tales,  in  which  the  effect  sought 
is  completely  achieved,  are  models  of  the 
subtlest  artifice.  It  is  not  enough  to  believe  in 
ghosts,  or  even  to  have  seen  one,  to  be  able  to 
write  a  good  ghost  story.  The  greater  the  im¬ 
probability  to  be  overcome  the  more  studied 
must  be  the  approach,  the  more  perfectly 
maintained  the  air  of  naturalness,  the  easy 
assumption  that  things  are  always  likely  to 
happen  in  that  way. 

One  of  the  chief  obligations,  in  a  short 
story,  is  to  give  the  reader  an  immediate 
sense  of  security.  Every  phrase  should  be  a 
sign-post,  and  never  (unless  intentionally) 
a  misleading  one:  the  reader  must  feel  that 
he  can  trust  to  their  guidance.  His  con- 

37 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

fidence  once  gained,  he  may  be  lured  on  to 
the  most  incredible  adventures — as  the  Ara¬ 
bian  Nights  are  there  to  show.  A  wise  critic 
once  said:  “You  may  ask  your  reader  to  be¬ 
lieve  anything  you  can  make  mm  relieve.’’  It 
is  never  the  genii  who  are  unreal,  but  only 
their  unconvinced  historian’s  description  of 
them.  The  least  touch  of  irrelevance,  the 
least  chill  of  inattention,  will  instantly  undo 
the  spell,  and  it  will  take  as  long  to  weave 
again  as  to  get  Humpty  Dumpty  back  on  his 
wall.  The  moment  the  reader  loses  faith  in 
the  author’s  sureness  of  foot  the  chasm  of 
improbability  gapes. 

Improbability  in  itself,  then,  is  never  a 
danger,  but  the  appearance  of  improbability 
is;  unless,  indeed,  the  tale  be  based  on  what, 
in  my  first  chapter,  I  called  pathological  con¬ 
ditions — conditions  of  body  or  mind  outside 
the  field  of  normal  experience.  But  this  term, 
of  course,  does  not  apply  to  states  of  mind  in¬ 
herited  from  an  earlier  phase  of  race-culture, 
such  as  the  belief  in  ghosts.  No  one  with  a 
spark  of  imagination  ever  objected  to  a  good 

38 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 


ghost  story  as  “improbable” — though  Mrs. 
Barbauld,  who  doubtless  lacked  the  spark,  is 
said  to  have  condemned  “The  Ancient  Mar¬ 
iner”  on  this  ground.  Most  of  us  retain  the 
more  or  less  shadowy  memory  of  ancestral 
terrors,  and  airy  tongues  that  syllable  men’s 
names.  We  cannot  believe  a  priori  in  the  prob¬ 
ability  of  the  actions  of  madmen,  or  neuras¬ 
thenics,  because  their  reasoning  processes  es¬ 
cape  most  of  us,  or  can  at  best  be  imagined 
only  as  belonging  to  abnormal  and  excep¬ 
tional  people;  but  everybody  knows  a  good 
ghost  when  he  reads  about  him. 

When  the  reader’s  confidence  is  gained  the 
next  rule  of  the  game  is  to  avoid  distracting 
and  splintering  up  his  attention.  Many  a 
would-be  tale  of  horror  becomes  innocuous 
through  the  very  multiplication  and  variety 
of  its  horrors.  Above  all,  if  they  are  multi¬ 
plied  they  should  be  cumulative  and  not  dis¬ 
persed.  But  the  fewer  the  better :  once  the  pre¬ 
liminary  horror  posited,  it  is  the  harping  on 
the  same  string — the  same  nerve — that  does 
the  trick.  Quiet  iteration  is  far  more  racking 

39 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

than  diversified  assaults;  the  expected  is  more 
frightful  than  the  unforeseen.  The  play  of 
“Emperor  Jones”  is  a  striking  instance  of  the 
power  of  simplification  and  repetition  to  ex¬ 
cite  in  an  audience  a  corresponding  state  of 
tension.  By  sheer  voodoo-practice  it  shows 
how  voodoo  acts. 

In  “The  Turn  of  the  Screw” — which 
stands  alone  among  tales  of  the  supernatural 
in  maintaining  the  ghostliness  of  its  ghosts 
not  only  through  a  dozen  pages  but  through 
close  on  two  hundred — the  economy  of  hor¬ 
ror  is  carried  to  its  last  degree.  What  is  the 
reader  made  to  expect?  Always — all  through 
the  book — that  somewhere  in  that  hushed 
house  of  doom  the  poor  little  governess  will 
come  on  one  of  the  two  figures  of  evil  with 
whom  she  is  fighting  for  the  souls  of  her 
charges.  It  will  be  either  Peter  Quint  or  the 
“horror  of  horrors,”  Miss  Jessel;  no  diver¬ 
sion  from  this  one  dread  is  ever  attempted  or 
expected.  It  is  true  that  the  tale  is  strongly 
held  together  by  its  profound,  its  appalling 
moral  significance;  but  most  readers  will  ad- 

40 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

mit  that,  long  before  they  are  conscious  of 
this,  fear,  simple  shivering  animal  fear,  has 
them  by  the  throat;  which,  after  all,  is  what 
writers  of  ghost  stories  are  after. 

Ill 

It  is  sometimes  said  that  a  “good  subject” 
for  a  short  story  should  always  be  capable  of 
being  expanded  into  a  novel. 

The  principle  may  be  defendable  in  special 
cases;  but  it  is  certainly  a  misleading  one  on 
which  to  build  any  general  theory.  Every 
“subject”  (in  the  novelist’s  sense  of  the 
term)  must  necessarily  contain  within  itself 
its  own  dimensions;  and  one  of  the  fiction- 
writer’s  essential  gifts  is  that  of  discerning 
whether  the  subject  which  presents  itself  to 
him,  asking  for  incarnation,  is  suited  to  the 
proportions  of  a  short  story  or  of  a  novel.  If 
it  appears  to  be  adapted  to  both  the  chances 
are  that  it  is  inadequate  to  either. 

It  would  be  as  great  a  mistake,  however, 
to  try  to  base  a  hard-and-fast  theory  on  the 
denial  of  the  rule  as  on  its  assertion.  Instances 

41 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

of  short  stories  made  out  of  subjects  that 
could  have  been  expanded  into  a  novel,  and 
that  are  pet  typical  short  stories  and  not 
mere  stunted  novels,  will  occur  to  every  one. 
General  rules  in  art  are  useful  chiefly  as  a 
lamp  in  a  mine,  or  a  hand-rail  down  a  black 
stairway;  they  are  necessary  for  the  sake  of 
the  guidance  they  give,  but  it  is  a  mistake, 
once  they  are  formulated,  to  be  too  much  in 
awe  of  them. 

There  are  at  least  two  reasons  why  a  sub¬ 
ject  should  find  expression  in  novel-form 
rather  than  as  a  tale;  but  neither  is  based  on 
the  number  of  what  may  be  conveniently 
called  incidents,  or  external  happenings, 
which  the  narrative  contains.  There  are  nov¬ 
els  of  action  which  might  be  condensed  into 
short  stories  without  the  loss  of  their  dis¬ 
tinguishing  qualities.  The  marks  of  the  sub¬ 
ject  requiring  a  longer  development  are,  first, 
the  gradual  unfolding  of  the  inner  life  of  its 
characters,  and  secondly  the  need  of  produc¬ 
ing  in  the  reader’s  mind  the  sense  of  the 
lapse  of  time.  Outward  events  of  the  most 

42- 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 


varied  and  exciting  nature  may  without  loss 
of  probability  be  crowded  into  a  few  hours, 
but  moral  dramas  usually  have  their  roots 
deep  in  the  soul,  their  rise  far  back  in  time; 
and  the  suddenest-seeming  clash  in  which 
they  culminate  should  be  led  up  to  step  by 
step  if  it  is  to  explain  and  justify  itself. 

There  are  cases,  indeed,  when  the  short 
story  may  make  use  of  the  moral  drama  at  its 
culmination.  If  the  incident  dealt  with  be  one 
which  a  single  retrospective  flash  sufficiently 
lights  up,  it  is  qualified  for  use  as  a  short 
story;  but  if  the  subject  be  so  complex,  and 
its  successive  phases  so  interesting,  as  to  jus¬ 
tify  elaboration,  the  lapse  of  time  must  neces¬ 
sarily  be  suggested,  and  the  novel-form  be¬ 
comes  appropriate. 

The  effect  of  compactness  and  instanta- 
neity  sought  in  the  short  story  is  attained 
mainly  by  the  observance  of  two  “unities” 
— the  old  traditional  one  of  time,  and  that 
other,  more  modern  and  complex,  which  re¬ 
quires  that  any  rapidly  enacted  episode  shall 
be  seen  through  only  one  pair  of  eyes. 

43 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


It  is  fairly  obvious  that  nothing  is  more 
retarding  than  the  marking  of  a  time-inter¬ 
val  long  enough  to  suggest  modification  in 
the  personages  of  the  tale  or  in  their  cir¬ 
cumstances.  The  use  of  such  an  interval  in¬ 
evitably  turns  the  short  story  into  a  long 
tale  unduly  compressed,  the  bald  scenario 
of  a  novel.  In  the  third  chapter,  where  an 
attempt  will  be  made  to  examine  the  tech¬ 
nique  of  the  novel,  it  will  be  needful  to  ex¬ 
plore  that  central  mystery — of  which  Tolstoy 
was  perhaps  the  one  complete  master — the 
art  of  creating  in  the  reader’s  mind  this  sense 
of  passing  time.  Meanwhile,  it  may  be 
pointed  out  that  a  third,  and  intermediate, 
form  of  tale — the  long  short-story — is  avail¬ 
able  for  any  subject  too  spreading  for  con¬ 
ciseness  jet  too  slight  in  texture  to  be 
stretched  into  a  novel. 

The  other  unity,  that  of  vision,  will  also 
be  dealt  with  in  considering  the  novel,  in 
respect  of  which  it  becomes  a  matter  much 
more  complicated.  Henry  James,  almost  the 
only  novelist  who  has  formulated  his  ideas 

44 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

about  his  art,  was  the  first  to  lay  down  the 
principle,  though  it  had  long  (if  intermit¬ 
tently)  been  observed  by  the  masters  of  fic¬ 
tion.  It  may  have  occurred  to  other  novelists 
— presumably  it  has — to  ask  themselves,  as 
they  sat  down  to  write:  Who  saw  this  thing 
I  am  going  to  tell  about?  By  whom  do  I  mean 
that  it  shall  be  reported?  It  seems  as  though 
such  a  question  must  precede  any  study  of 
the  subject  chosen,  since  the  subject  is  con¬ 
ditioned  by  the  answer;  but  no  critic  appears 
to  have  propounded  it,  and  it  was  left  to 
Henry  James  to  do  so  in  one  of  those  entan¬ 
gled  prefaces  to  the  Definitive  Edition  from 
which  the  technical  axioms  ought  some  day 
to  be  piously  detached. 

It  is  clear  that  exactly  the  same  thing  never 
happens  to  any  two  people,  and  that  each 
witness  of  a  given  incident  will  report  it  dif¬ 
ferently.  Should  some  celestial  task-master 
set  the  same  theme  to  Jane  Austen  and 
George  Meredith  the  bewildered  reader 
would  probably  have  some  difficulty  in  dis¬ 
covering  the  common  denominator.  Henry 

45 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


James,  in  pointing  this  out,  also  made  the 
corollary  suggestion  that  the  mind  chosen 
by  the  author  to  mirror  his  given  case  should 
be  so  situated,  and  so  constituted,  as  to  take 
the  widest  possible  view  of  it. 

One  thing  more  is  needful  for  the  ultimate 
effect  of  probability;  and  that  is,  never  to  let 
the  character  who  serves  as  reflector  record 
anything  not  naturally  within  his  register. 
It  should  be  the  story-teller’s  first  care  to 
choose  this  reflecting  mind  deliberately,  as 
one  would  choose  a  building- site,  or  decide 
upon  the  orientation  of  one’s  house,  and  when 
this  is  done,  to  live  inside  the  mind  chosen, 
trying  to  feel,  see  and  react  exactly  as  the 
latter  would,  no  more,  no  less,  and,  above 
all,  no  otherwise.  Only  thus  can  the  writer 
avoid  attributing  incongruities  of  thought 
and  metaphor  to  his  chosen  interpreter. 

IV 

It  remains  to  try  to  see  what  constitutes 
(in  any  permanent  sense)  the  underlying 
norm  of  the  “good  short  story.” 

46 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

A  curious  distinction  between  the  success¬ 
ful  tale  and  the  successful  novel  at  once  pre¬ 
sents  itself.  It  is  safe  to  say  (since  the  surest 
way  of  measuring  achievement  in  art  is  by 
survival)  that  the  test  of  the  novel  is  that  its 
people  should  be  alive.  No  subject  in  itself, 
however  fruitful,  appears  to  be  able  to  keep 
a  novel  alive;  only  the  characters  in  it  can.*/ 
Of  the  short  story  the  same  cannot  be  said.  ' 
Some  of  the  greatest  short  stories  owe  their 
vitality  entirely  to  the  dramatic  rendering  of 
a  situation.  Undoubtedly  the  characters  en¬ 
gaged  must  be  a  little  more  than  puppets;  but 
apparently,  also,  they  may  be  a  little  less 
than  individual  human  beings.  In  this  respect 
the  short  story,  rather  than  the  novel,  might 
be  called  the  direct  descendant  of  the  old  epic 
or  ballad — of  those  earlier  forms  of  fiction  in 
all  of  which  action  was  the  chief  affair,  and 
the  characters,  if  they  did  not  remain  mere 
puppets,  seldom  or  never  became  more  than 
types — such  as  the  people,  for  instance,  in 
Moliere.  The  reason  of  the  difference  is  ob¬ 
vious.  Type,  general  character,  may  be  set 

47 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

forth  in  a  few  strokes,  but  the  progression, 
the  unfolding  of  personality,  of  which  the 
reader  instinctively  feels  the  need  if  the 
actors  in  the  tale  are  to  retain  their  individu¬ 
ality  for  him  through  a  succession  of  chang¬ 
ing  circumstances  —  this  slow  but  continu¬ 
ous  growth  requires  space,  and  therefore  be¬ 
longs  by  definition  to  a  larger,  a  symphonic 
plan. 

The  chief  technical  difference  between  the 
short  story  and  the  novel  may  therefore  be 
summed  up  by  saying  that  situation  is  the 
main  concern  of  the  short  story,  character  of 
the  novel;  and  it  follows  that  the  effect  pro¬ 
duced  by  the  short  story  depends  almost  en¬ 
tirely  on  its  form,  or  presentation.  Even 
more — yes,  and  much  more — than  in  the 
construction  of  the  novel,  the  impression  of 
vividness,  of  presentness,  in  the  affair  narrat¬ 
ed,  has  to  be  sought,  and  made  sure  of  be¬ 
forehand,  by  that  careful  artifice  which  is 
the  real  carelessness  of  art.  The  short-story 
writer  must  not  only  know  from  what  angle 
to  present  his  anecdote  if  it  is  to  give  out  all 

48 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

its  fires,  but  must  understand  just  why  that 
particular  angle  and  no  other  is  the  right 
one.  He  must  therefore  have  turned  his  sub¬ 
ject  over  and  over,  walked  around  it,  so  to 
speak,  and  applied  to  it  those  laws  of  per¬ 
spective  which  Paolo  Uccello  called  “so 
beautiful,”  before  it  can  be  offered  to  the 
reader  as  a  natural  unembellished  fragment 
of  experience,  detached  like  a  ripe  fruit  from 
the  tree. 

The  moment  the  writer  begins  to  grope  in 
the  tangle  of  his  “material,”  to  hesitate  be¬ 
tween  one  and  another  of  the  points  that 
any  actual  hap^^^ing  ^musts  up  ui  su^ii  dis¬ 
orderly  abundance,  the  reader  feels  a  corre¬ 
sponding  hesitancy,  and  the  illusion  of  re¬ 
ality  vanishes.  The  non-observance  of  the 
optics  of  the  printed  page  results  in  the  same 
failure  to  make  the  subject  “carry”  as  the 
non-observance  of  the  optics  of  the  stage  in 
presenting  a  play.  By  all  means  let  the  writer 
of  short  stories  reduce  the  technical  trick  to 
its  minimum — as  the  cleverest  actresses  put 
on  the  least  paint;  but  let  him  always  bear 

49 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


in  mind  that  the  surviving  minimum  is  the 
only  bridge  between  the  reader’s  imagina¬ 
tion  and  his. 

V 

Nietzsche  said  that  it  took  genius  to 
“make  an  end’’ — that  is,  to  give  the  touch 
of  inevitableness  to  the  conclusion  of  any 
work  of  art.  In  the  art  of  fiction  this  is  pe¬ 
culiarly  true  of  the  novel,  that  slowly  built- 
up  monument  in  which  every  stone  has  its 
particular  weight  and  thrust  to  carry  and  of 
which  the  foundations  must  be  laid  with  a 
view  to  the  proportions  of  the  highest  tower. 
Of  the  short  story,  on  the  contrary,  it  might 
be  said  that  the  writer’s  first  care  should  be 
to  know  how  to  make  a  beginning. 

That  an  inadequate  or  unreal  ending  di¬ 
minishes  the  short  tale  in  value  as  much  as 
the  novel  need  hardly  be  added,  since  it  is 
proved  with  depressing  regularity  by  the 
machine-made  “magazine  story”  to  which 
one  or  the  other  of  half  a  dozen  “standard¬ 
ized”  endings  is  automatically  adjusted  at 

50 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

the  four-thousand-five-hundredth  word  of 
whatsoever  has  been  narrated.  Obviously,  as 
every  subject  contains  its  own  dimensions, 
so  is  its  conclusion  ab  ovo;  and  the  failure  to 
end  a  tale  in  accordance  with  its  own  deepest 
sense  must  deprive  it  of  meaning. 

None  the  less,  the  short-story  writer’s  first 
concern,  once  he  has  mastered  his  subject,  is 
to  study  what  musicians  call  the  “attack.” 
The  rule  that  the  first  page  of  a  novel  ought 
to  contain  the  germ  of  the  whole  is  even 
more  applicable  to  the  short  story,  because 
in  the  latter  case  the  trajectory  is  so  short 
that  flash  and  sound  nearly  coincide. 

Benvenuto  Cellini  relates  in  his  Autobiog¬ 
raphy  that  one  day,  as  a  child,  while  he  sat 
by  the  hearth  with  his  father,  they  both  saw 
a  salamander  in  the  fire.  Even  then  the  sight 
must  have  been  unusual,  for  the  father  in¬ 
stantly  boxed  his  son’s  e?rs  so  that  he  should 
never  forget  what  he  had  seen. 

This  anecdote  might  serve  as  an  apothegm 
for  the  writer  of  short  stories.  If  his  first 
stroke  be  vivid  and  telling  the  reader’s  atten- 

51 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

tion  will  be  instantly  won.  The  “  ‘Hell,’ 
said  the  Duchess  as  she  lit  her  cigar”  with 
which  an  Eton  boy  is  said  to  have  begun  a 
tale  for  his  school  magazine,  in  days  when 
Duchesses  less  commonly  smoked  and  swore, 
would  undoubtedly  have  carried  his  narra¬ 
tive  to  posterity  if  what  followed  had  been 
at  the  same  level. 

This  leads  to  another  point:  it  is  useless  to 
box  your  reader’s  ear  unless  you  have  a  sala¬ 
mander  to  show  him.  If  the  heart  of  your 
little  blaze  is  not  animated  by  a  living,  mov¬ 
ing  something  no  shouting  and  shaking  will 
fix  the  anecdote  in  your  reader’s  memory. 
The  salamander  stands  for  that  fundamental 
significance  that  made  the  story  worth  tell¬ 
ing. 

The  arrest  of  attention  by  a  vivid  opening 
should  be  something  more  than  a  trick.  It 
should  mean  that  the  narrator  has  so  brood¬ 
ed  on  this  subject  that  it  has  become  his  in¬ 
deed,  so  made  over  and  synthesized  within 
him  that,  as  a  great  draughtsman  gives  the 
essentials  of  a  face  or  landscape  in  a  half-a- 

52- 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

dozen  strokes,  the  narrator  can  “situate” 
his  tale  in  an  opening  passage  which  shall  be 
a  clue  to  all  the  detail  eliminated. 

The  clue  given,  the  writer  has  only  to  fol¬ 
low.  But  his  graso  must  hr  firm;  he  must 
never  for  an  instant  forget  what  he  wants  to 
tell,  or  why  it  seemH.  worth  telling.  And 
this  intensity  of  hold  on  ms  subject  presup¬ 
poses,  before  the  telling  of  even  a  short  story, 
a  good  deal  of  thinking  over.  Just  because  the 
limits  of  the  form  selected  prevent  his  produc¬ 
ing  the  semblance  of  reality  by  elaborating 
his  characters,  is  the  short-story  writer  the 
more  bound  to  make  real  the  adventure  in 
itself.  A  well-known  French  confectioner  in 
New  York  was  once  asked  why  his  choco¬ 
late,  good  as  it  was,  was  not  equal  to  that 
made  in  Paris.  He  replied:  “Because,  on  ac¬ 
count  of  the  expense,  we  cannot  work  it  over 
as  many  times  as  the  French  confectioner 
can.”  Other  homely  analogies  confirm  the 
lesson :  the  seemingly  simplest  sauces  are 
those  that  have  been  most  cunningly  com¬ 
bined  and  then  most  completely  blent,  the 

53 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

simplest-looking  dresses  those  that  require 
most  study  to  design. 

The  precious  instinct  of  selection  is  dis¬ 
tilled  by  that  long  patience  which,  if  it  be 
not  genius,  must  be  one  of  genius’s  chief  re¬ 
liances  in  communicating  itself.  On  this 
point  repetition  and  insistence  are  excusable: 
the  shorter  the  story,  the  more  stripped  of 
detail  and  “cleared  for  action,”  the  more  it 
depends  for  its  effect  not  only  on  the  choice 
of  what  is  kept  when  the  superfluous  has 
been  jettisoned,  but  on  the  order  in  which 
these  essentials  are  set  forth. 

VI 

Nothing  but  deep  familiarity  with  his 
subject  will  protect  the  short-story  writer 
from  another  danger:  that  of  contenting  him¬ 
self  with  a  mere  sketch  of  the  episode  select¬ 
ed.  The  temptation  to  do  so  is  all  the  greater 
because  some  critics,  in  their  resentment  of 
the  dense  and  the  prolix,  have  tended  to 
overestimate  the  tenuous  and  the  tight. 
Merimee’s  tales  are  often  cited  as  models  of 

54 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

the  conte;  but  they  are  rather  the  breathless 
summaries  of  longer  tales  than  the  bold  fore¬ 
shortening  of  an  episode  from  which  all  the 
significance  it  has  to  give  has  been  adroitly 
extracted.  It  is  easy  to  be  brief  and  sharply 
outlined  if  one  does  away  with  one  or  more 
dimensions;  the  real  achievement,  as  certain 
tales  of  Flaubert’s  and  Turgenev’s,  of  Steven¬ 
son’s  and  of  Maupassant’s  show,  is  to  sug¬ 
gest  illimitable  air  within  a  narrow  space. 

The  stories  of  the  German  “romantic,” 
Heinrich  von  Kleist,  have  likewise  been 
praised  for  an  extreme  economy  of  material, 
but  they  should  rather  be  held  up  as  an  aw¬ 
ful  warning  against  waste,  for  in  their  inge¬ 
nious  dovetailing  of  improbable  incidents, 
the  only  economy  practised  is  that  of  leaving 
out  all  that  would  have  enriched  the  subject, 
visually  or  emotionally.  One,  indeed,  “The 
Marquise  d’O.”  (thrift  is  carried  so  far  that 
the  characters  are  known  merely  by  their 
initials),  has  in  it  the  making  of  a  good 
novel,  not  unlike  Goethe’s  “Elective  Affini¬ 
ties”;  but  reduced  to  the  limits  of  a  short 

55 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

story  it  offers  a  mere  skeleton  of  its  subject. 

The  phrase  “economy  of  material’’  sug¬ 
gests  another  danger  to  which  the  novelist 
and  the  writer  of  short  stories  are  equally 
exposed.  Such  economy  is,  in  both  cases, 
nearly  always  to  be  advised  in  the  multipli¬ 
cation  of  accidental  happenings,  minor  epi¬ 
sodes,  surprises  and  contrarieties.  Most  be¬ 
ginners  crowd  into  their  work  twice  as  much 
material  of  this  sort  as  it  needs.  The  reluc¬ 
tance  to  look  deeply  enough  into  a  subject 
leads  to  the  indolent  habit  of  decorating  its 
surface.  I  was  once  asked  to  read  a  manu¬ 
script  on  the  eternal  theme  of  a  lovers’  quar¬ 
rel.  The  quarrelling  pair  made  up,  and  the 
reasons  for  dispute  and  reconciliation  were 
clearly  inherent  in  their  characters  and  situ¬ 
ation;  but  the  author,  being  new  at  the  trade, 
felt  obliged  to  cast  about  for  an  additional,  a 
fortuitous,  pretext  for  their  reunion — so  he 
sent  them  for  a  drive,  made  the  horses  run 
away,  and  caused  the  young  man  to  save  the 
young  lady’s  life.  This  is  a  crude  example  of 
a  frequent  fault.  Again  and  again  the  novel- 

56 


TELLING  A  SHORT  STORY 

ist  passes  by  the  real  meaning  of  a  situation 
simply  for  lack  of  letting  it  reveal  all  its  po¬ 
tentialities  instead  of  dashing  this  way  and 
that  in  quest  of  fresh  effects.  If,  when  once 
drawn  to  a  subject,  he  would  let  it  grow 
slowly  in  his  mind  instead  of  hunting  about 
for  arbitrary  combinations  of  circumstance, 
his  tale  would  have  the  warm  scent  and  fla¬ 
vour  of  a  fruit  ripened  in  the  sun  instead  of 
the  insipidity  of  one  forced  in  a  hot-house. 

There  is  a  sense  in  which  the  writing  of 
fiction  may  be  compared  to  the  administer¬ 
ing  of  a  fortune.  Economy  and  expenditure 
must  each  bear  a  part  in  it,  but  they  should 
never  degenerate  into  parsimony  or  waste. 
True  economy  consists  in  the  drawing  out  of 
one’s  subject  of  every  drop  of  significance  it 
can  give,  true  expenditure  in  devoting  time, 
meditation  and  patient  labour  to  the  process 
of  extraction  and  representation. 

It  all  comes  back  to  a  question  of  expense: 
expense  of  time,  of  patience,  of  study,  of 
thought,  of  letting  hundreds  of  stray  experi¬ 
ences  accumulate  and  group  themselves  in 

57 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


the  memory,  till  suddenly  one  of  the  number 
emerges  and  throws  its  sharp  light  on  the 
subject  which  solicits  you.  It  has  been  often, 
and  inaccurately,  said  that  the  mind  of  a  cre¬ 
ative  artist  is  a  mirror,  and  the  work  of  art 
the  reflection  of  life  in  it.  The  mirror,  indeed, 
is  the  artist’s  mind,  with  all  his  experiences 
reflected  in  it;  but  the  work  of  art,  from  the 
smallest  to  the  greatest,  should  be  something 
projected,  not  reflected,  something  on  which 
his  mirrored  experiences,  at  the  right  con¬ 
junction  of  the  stars,  are  to  be  turned  for  its 
full  illumination. 


58 


Ill 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


Ill 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

I 

FOR  convenience  of  division  it  may  be 
said  that  the  novel  of  psychology  was 
bom  in  France,  the  novel  of  manners  in  Eng¬ 
land,  and  that  out  of  their  union  in  the  glo¬ 
rious  brain  of  Balzac  sprang  that  strange  cha¬ 
meleon-creature,  the  modern  novel,  which 
changes  its  shape  and  colour  with  every  sub¬ 
ject  on  which  it  rests. 

In  the  general  muster  the  novel  of  manners 
will  be  found  to  have  played  the  most  im¬ 
portant  part;  and  here  English  influences  pre¬ 
ponderate.  If  innate  aptitude  were  enough 
for  the  producing  of  a  work  of  art,  the  flow¬ 
ering  of  the  English  novel  of  manners  in  the 
late  eighteenth  and  early  nineteenth  centu¬ 
ries  might  have  surpassed  in  quality,  and  in¬ 
trinsic  importance,  that  of  all  other  schools. 

Balzac’s  debt  to  Scott  has  already  been 
touched  on;  that  of  the  earlier  French  fiction 

61 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

to  Richardson  and  Sterne  is  a  commonplace 
in  the  history  of  the  novel.  But  the  true  ori¬ 
entation  of  English  fiction  was  away  from 
the  fine-drawn  analysis  of  Richardson,  the 
desultory  humours  of  Sterne,  in  the  direction 
of  an  ample  and  powerful  novel  of  manners. 
Smollett  and  Fielding  brought  fresh  air  and 
noise,  the  rough-and-tumble  of  the  street,  the 
ribaldry  of  the  tavern,  into  the  ceremonious 
drawing-rooms  depicted  by  Richardson  and 
later  by  Miss  Burney.  The  great,  the  distin¬ 
guishing  gift  of  the  English  novelist  was  a 
homely  simplicity  combined  with  an  obser¬ 
vation  at  once  keen  and  indulgent;  good- 
humour  was  the  atmosphere  and  irony  the 
flavour  of  this  great  school  of  observers,  from 
Fielding  to  George  Eliot. 

.  Till  the  day  of  Jane  Austen  it  had  been  pos¬ 
sible  to  treat  without  apology  of  the  mixed 
affair  of  living;  but  Jane  Austen’s  delicate 
genius  flourished  on  the  very  edge  of  a  tidal 
wave  of  prudery.  Already  Scott  was  averting 
his  eyes  from  facts  on  which  the  maiden  nov¬ 
elist  in  her  rectory  parlour  had  looked  unper- 

6z 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


turbed;  when  Thackeray  and  Dickens  rose  in 
their  might  the  chains  were  forged  and  the 
statues  draped.  In  the  melancholy  preface  to 
“Pendennis”  Thackeray  puts  the  case  bit¬ 
terly  and  forcibly:  “Since  the  author  of  Tom 
Jones  was  buried,  no  writer  of  fiction  among 
us  has  been  permitted  to  depict  to  his  utmost 
power  a  MAN”;  and  the  stunted  conclusion 
of  a  tale  so  largely  begun  testifies  to  the  be¬ 
numbing  effect  of  the  new  restrictions.  The 
novels  of  Charlotte  Bronte,  which  now  seem 
in  some  respects  so  romantically  unreal,  were 
denounced  for  sensuality  and  immorality; 
and  for  a  time  English  fiction  was  in  danger 
of  dwindling  to  the  pale  parables  of  Miss 
Mulock  and  Miss  Yonge. 

But  for  this  reaction  against  truth,  this 
sudden  fear  of  touching  on  any  of  the  real 
issues  of  the  human  comedy  and  tragedy, 
Thackeray’s  natural  endowment  would  have 
placed  him  with  the  very  greatest;  Trollope 
might  conceivably  have  been  a  lesser  Jane 
Austen;  and  George  Eliot,  perhaps  born 
with  the  richest  gifts  of  any  English  novelist 

63 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

since  Thackeray,  might  have  poured  out  her 
treasures  of  wit  and  irony  and  tenderness 
without  continually  pausing  to  denounce 
and  exhort. 

But  the  artist  depends  on  atmosphere  for 
the  proper  development  of  his  gift;  and  all 
these  novelists  were  cramped  by  the  hazard 
of  a  social  convention  from  which  their  con¬ 
tinental  contemporaries  had  the  good  fortune 
to  escape.  The  artist  of  other  races  has  always 
been  not  only  permitted  but  enjoined  to  see 
life  whole;  and  it  is  this,  far  more  than  any 
superiority  of  genius,  that  lifts  Balzac,  Sten¬ 
dhal  and  Tolstoy  so  high  above  even  Thack¬ 
eray  when  the  universal  values  are  to  be 
appraised.  The  great  continental  novelists 
are  all  the  avowed  debtors  of  their  English 
predecessors;  they  took  the  English  novel  of 
manners  in  its  amplitude,  its  merriment  and 
pathos,  and  in  their  hands  “the  thing  be¬ 
came  a  trumpet.” 

In  one  respect  the  English  novelists  are 
still  supreme;  and  that  is  in  the  diffusion  of 
good  humour,  good  manners  one  might  al- 

64 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

most  say,  which  envelops  their  comedy  and 
tragedy.  Much  that  is  savage  and  acrimoni¬ 
ous  in  the  French,  dolorous  and  overwrought 
in  the  Russians,  is  strained  away  through  this 
fine  English  bonhomie ,  leaving  a  clear,  bright 
draught,  not  very  intoxicating  or  even  stim¬ 
ulating,  but  refreshing  and  full  of  a  lasting 
savour.  Nor  does  this  prevalent  good  humour 
hinder  the  full  expression  of  tragedy;  it  helps 
rather  to  extract  the  final  bitterness  from  cer¬ 
tain  scenes  in  “Pendennis”  and  “Vanity 
Fair,”  in  “Middlemarch”  and  the  “Chroni¬ 
cles  of  Barsetshire.”  The  last  years  of  Lyd¬ 
gate,  the  last  hour  of  Mrs.  Proudie,  seem  the 
more  terrible  for  being  muffled  in  a  secure  and 
decent  atmosphere  of  fair  play  and  plum¬ 
pudding. 

Since  then  all  the  restraints  of  prudery 
which  hampered  the  English  novelists  of  the 
nineteenth  century  have  come  down  with  a 
crash,  and  the  “now-that-it-can-be-told- 
school”  (as  some  one  has  wittily  named  it) 
has  rushed  to  the  opposite  excess  of  dirt-for- 
dirt’s  sake,  from  which  no  real  work  of  art 

65 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


has  ever  sprung.  Such  a  reaction  was  inevi¬ 
table.  No  one  who  remembers  that  Butler’s 
great  novel,  “The  Wap  of  All  Flesh,’’  re¬ 
mained  unpublished  for  over  twenty  years 
because  it  dealt  soberly  but  sincerely  with 
the  chief  springs  of  human  conduct  can 
wonder  that  laborious  monuments  of  school¬ 
boy  pornography  are  now  mistaken  for 
works  of  genius  by  a  public  ignorant  of 
Rabelais  and  unaware  of  Apuleius.  The  bal¬ 
ance  will  right  itself  with  the  habit  of 
freedom.  The  new  novelists  will  learn  that 
it  is  even  more  necessary  to  see  life  steadily 
than  to  recount  it  whole;  and  by  that  time  a 
more  thoughtful  public  may  be  ripe  for  the 
enjoyment  of  a  riper  art. 

II 

Most  novels,  for  convenient  survey,  may 
be  grouped  under  one  or  the  other  of  three 
types:  manners,  character  (pr  psychology) 
and  adventure.  These  designations  may  be 
thought  to  describe  the  different  methods 
sufficiently;  but  as  a  typical  example  of  each, 

66 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


“Vanity  Fair”  for  the  first,  “Madame  Bo¬ 
vary”  for  the  second,  and,  for  the  third, 
“Rob  Roy”  or  “The  Master  of  Ballantrae,” 
might  be  named. 

This  grouping  must  be  further  stretched  to 
include  as  subdivisions  what  might  be  called 
the  farcical  novel  of  manners,  the  romance 
and  the  philosophical  romance;  and  immedi¬ 
ately  “Pickwick”  for  the  first,  “Harry  Rich¬ 
mond,”  “La  Chartreuse  de  Parme”  or  “Lor- 
na  Doone”  for  the  second,  and  “Wilhelm 
Meister”  or  “Marius  the  Epicurean”  for  the 
third  category,  suggest  themselves  to  the 
reader. 

Lastly,  in  the  zone  of  the  unclassifiable 
float  such  enchanting  hybrids  as  ‘  ‘John  Ingle- 
sant,”  “Lavengro,”  and  that  great  Swiss 
novel,  ‘ ‘Der  Griine  Heinrich,”  in  which  fan¬ 
tasy,  romance  and  the  homeliest  realities  are 
so  inimitably  mingled.  It  will  be  noticed 
that  in  the  last  two  groups — of  romance  pure 
or  hybrid — but  one  French  novel  has  been 
cited.  The  French  genius,  which  made  “Ro¬ 
manticism”  its  own  (after  borrowing  it  from 

67 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

England),  has  seldom  touched  even  the  hem 
of  Romance:  Tristan  and  Iseult  and  their  long 
line  of  descendants  come  from  Broceliande, 
not  from  the  lie  de  France. 

Before  going  farther  it  should  be  added 
that,  in  a  study  of  the  modern  novel,  the 
last-named  of  the  three  principal  groups,  the 
novel  of  adventure,  is  the  least  important  be¬ 
cause  the  least  modern.  That  this  implies  any 
depreciation  of  the  type  in  itself  will  not  for 
a  moment  be  admitted  by  a  writer  whose 
memory  rings  with  the  joyous  clatter  of 
Dumas  the  elder,  Herman  Melville,  Captain 
Marryat  and  Stevenson;  but  their  gallant 
yarns  might  have  been  sung  to  the  minstrel’s 
harp  before  Roland  and  his  peers,  and  told  in 
Babylonian  bazaars  to  Joseph  and  his  Breth¬ 
ren:  the  tale  of  adventure  is  essentially  the 
parent-stock  of  all  subsequent  varieties  of  the 
novel,  and  its  modern  tellers  have  introduced 
few  innovations  in  what  was  already  a  per¬ 
fect  formula,  created  in  the  dawn  of  time  b; 
the  world-old  appeal:  “Tell  us  another 
story.” 


68 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

All  attempts  at  classification  may  seem  to 
belong  to  school-examinations  and  text¬ 
books,  and  to  reduce  the  matter  to  the  level 
of  the  famous  examination-paper  which,  in 
reference  to  Wordsworth’s  “O  cuckoo,  shall 
I  call  thee  bird,  or  but  a  wandering  voice?” 
instructed  the  student  to  “state  alternative 
preferred,  with  reasons  for  your  choice.”  In 
a  sense,  classification  is  always  arbitrary  and 
belittling;  yet  to  the  novelist’s  mind  such 
distinctions  represent  organic  realities.  It 
does  not  much  matter  under  what  heading  a 
school-girl  is  taught  to  class  “Vanity  Fair”; 
but  from  the  creator’s  point  of  view  classifi¬ 
cation  means  the  choice  of  a  manner  and  of 
an  angle  of  vision,  and  it  mattered  greatly 
that  Thackeray  knew  just  how  he  meant  to 
envisage  his  subject,  which  might  have  been 
dealt  with  merely  as  the  tale  of  an  adventur¬ 
ess,  or  merely  as  the  romance  of  an  honest 
couple,  or  merely  as  an  historical  novel,  and 
is  all  of  these,  and  how  much  more  besides — 
is,  indeed,  all  that  its  title  promises. 

The  very  fact  that  so  many  subjects  con- 

69 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

tain  the  elements  of  two  or  three  different 
types  of  novel  makes  it  one  of  the  novelist’s 
first  cares  to  decide  which  method  he  means 
to  use.  Balzac,  for  instance,  gives  us  in  “Le 
Pere  Goriot”  and  in  “Eugenie  Grandet”  two 
different  ways  of  dealing  with  subjects  that 
contain,  after  all,  much  the  same  elements; 
in  the  one,  englobing  his  tragic  father  in  a 
vast  social  panorama,  in  the  other  projecting 
his  miser  (who  should  have  given  the  tale  its 
name)  in  huge  Molieresque  relief  against  the 
narrow  background  of  a  sleepy  provincial 
town  peopled  by  three  or  four  carefully-sub¬ 
ordinated  characters. 

There  is  another  kind  of  hybrid  novel,  but 
in  which  the  manner  rather  than  the  matter 
may  be  so  characterized;  the  novel  written 
almost  entirely  in  dialogue,  after  the  style, 
say,  of  “Gyp’s”  successful  tales.  It  is  open  to 
discussion  whether  any  particular  class  of 
subjects  calls  for  this  treatment.  Henry  James 
thought  so,  and  the  oddly-contrived  “Awk¬ 
ward  Age”  was  a  convinced  attempt  on  his 
part  to  write  “a  little  thing  in  the  manner  of 

70 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

Gyp” — a  resemblance  which  few  readers 
would  have  perceived  had  he  not  pointed  it 
out.  Strangely  enough,  he  was  persuaded 
that  certain  subjects  not  falling  into  the 
stage-categories  require  nevertheless  to  be 
chattered  rather  than  narrated;  and,  more 
strangely  still,  that  “The  Awkward  Age,” 
that  delicate  and  subtle  case,  all  half-lights 
and  shades,  all  innuendoes,  gradations  and 
transitions,  was  typically  made  for  such 
treatment. 

His  hyper-sensitiveness  to  any  comment  on 
his  own  work  made  it  difficult  to  discuss  the 
question  with  him;  but  his  greatest  admirers 
will  probably  feel  that  ‘‘The  Awkward  Age” 
lost  more  than  it  gained  by  being  powdered 
into  dialogue,  and  that,  had  it  been  treated  as 
a  novel  instead  of  a  kind  of  hybrid  play,  the 
obligation  of  ‘‘straight”  narrative  might 
have  compelled  him  to  face  and  elucidate  the 
central  problem  instead  of  suffering  it  to  lose 
itself  in  a  tangle  of  talk.  At  any  rate,  such  an 
instance  will  probably  not  do  much  to  con¬ 
vince  either  novelists  or  their  readers  of  the 


7i 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

advantage  of  the  “talked”  novel.  As  a  mat¬ 
ter  of  fact,  the  mode  of  presentation  to  the 
reader,  that  central  difficulty  of  the  whole 
affair,  must  always  be  determined  by  the  na¬ 
ture  of  the  subject;  and  the  subject  which  in¬ 
stantly  calls  for  dialogue  seems  as  instantly 
to  range  itself  among  those  demanding  for 
their  full  setting-forth  the  special  artifices  of 
the  theatre. 

The  immense  superiority  of  the  novel  for 
any  subject  in  which  “situation”  is  not  para¬ 
mount  is  just  that  freedom,  that  ease  in  pass¬ 
ing  from  one  form  of  presentation  to  another, 
and  that  possibility  of  explaining  and  eluci¬ 
dating  by  the  way,  which  the  narrative  per¬ 
mits.  Convention  is  the  first  necessity  of  all 
art;  but  there  seems  no  reason  for  adding  the 
shackles  of  another  form  to  those  imposed  by 
one’s  own.  Narrative,  with  all  its  suppleness 
and  variety,  its  range  from  great  orchestral 
effects  to  the  frail  vibration  of  a  single  string, 
should  furnish  the  substance  of  the  novel; 
dialogue,  that  precious  adjunct,  should  never 
be  more  than  an  adjunct,  and  one  to  be  used 

72- 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


as  skilfully  and  sparingly  as  the  drop  of  con¬ 
diment  which  flavours  a  whole  dish. 

The  use  of  dialogue  in  fiction  seems  to  be 
one  of  the  few  things  about  which  a  fairly 
definite  rule  may  be  laid  down.  It  should  be 
reserved  for  the  culminating  moments,  and 
regarded  as  the  spray  into  which  the  great 
wave  of  narrative  breaks  in  curving  toward 
the  watcher  on  the  shore.  This  lifting  and 
scattering  of  the  wave,  the  coruscation  of  the 
spray,  even  the  mere  material  sight  of  the 
page  broken  into  short,  uneven  paragraphs, 
all  help  to  reinforce  the  contrast  between 
such  climaxes  and  the  smooth  effaced  gliding 
of  the  narrative  intervals;  and  the  contrast 
enhances  that  sense  of  the  passage  of  time  for 
the  producing  of  which  the  writer  has  to  de¬ 
pend  on  his  intervening  narration.  Thus  the 
sparing  use  of  dialogue  not  only  serves  to 
emphasize  the  crises  of  the  tale  but  to  give  it 
as  a  whole  a  greater  effect  of  continuous  de¬ 
velopment. 

Another  argument  against  the  substitution 
of  dialogue  for  narrative  is  the  wastefulness 

73 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

and  round-aboutness  of  the  method.  The 
greater  effect  of  animation,  of  presentness, 
produced  by  its  excessive  use  will  not  help 
the  reader  through  more  than  half  the  book, 
whatever  its  subject;  after  that  he  will  per¬ 
ceive  that  he  is  to  be  made  to  pay  before  the 
end  for  his  too  facile  passage  through  the 
earlier  chapters.  The  reason  is  inherent  in  the 
method.  When,  in  real  life,  two  or  more  peo¬ 
ple  are  talking  together,  all  that  is  under¬ 
stood  between  them  is  left  out  of  their  talk; 
but  when  the  novelist  uses  conversation  as  a 
means  not  only  of  accentuating  but  of  carry¬ 
ing  on  his  tale,  his  characters  have  to  tell 
each  other  many  things  that  each  already 
knows  the  other  knows.  To  avoid  the  re¬ 
sulting  shock  of  improbability,  their  dia¬ 
logue  must  be  so  diluted  with  irrelevant 
touches  of  realistic  commonplace,  with  what 
might  be  described  as  by-talk,  that,  as  in  the 
least  good  of  Trollope’s  tales,  it  rambles  on 
for  page  after  page  before  the  reader,  re¬ 
signedly  marking  time,  arrives,  bewildered 

74 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

and  weary,  at  a  point  to  which  one  para¬ 
graph  of  narrative  could  have  carried  him. 

Ill 

In  writing  of  the  short  story  I  may  have 
seemed  to  dwell  too  much  on  the  need  of 
considering  every  detail  in  its  plan  and  de¬ 
velopment;  yet  the  short  story  is  an  impro¬ 
visation,  the  temporary  shelter  of  a  flitting 
fancy,  compared  to  the  four-square  and 
deeply-founded  monument  which  the  novel 
ought  to  be. 

It  is  not  only  that  the  scale  is  different;  it 
is  because  of  the  reasons  for  its  being  so.  If 
the  typical  short  story  be  the  foreshortening 
of  a  dramatic  climax  connecting  two  or  more 
lives,  the  typical  novel  usually  deals  with 
the  gradual  unfolding  of  a  succession  of 
events  divided  by  intervals  of  time,  and  in 
which  many  people,  in  addition  to  the  prin¬ 
cipal  characters,  play  more  or  less  subordi¬ 
nate  parts.  No  need  now  to  take  in  sail  and 
clear  the  decks;  the  novelist  must  carry  as 

75 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


much  canvas  and  as  many  passengers  as  his 
subject  requires  and  his  seamanship  permits. 

Still,  the  novel-theme  is  distinguished 
from  that  suited  to  the  short  story  not  so 
much  by  the  number  of  characters  presented 
as  by  the  space  required  to  mark  the  lapse  of 
time  or  to  permit  the  minute  analysis  of 
successive  states  of  feeling.  The  latter  dis¬ 
tinction,  it  should  be  added,  holds  good 
even  when  the  states  of  feeling  are  all  con¬ 
tained  in  one  bosom,  and  crowded  into  a 
short  period,  as  they  are  in  “The  Kreutzer 
Sonata.’’  No  one  would  think  of  classing 
“The  Kreutzer  Sonata,’’  or  “Ivan  Ilyitch,” 
or  “Adolphe,”  among  short  stories;  and 
such  instances  prove  the  difficulty  of  laying 
down  a  hard-and-fast  distinction  between 
the  forms.  The  final  difference  lies  deeper.  A 
novel  may  be  all  about  one  person,  and  about 
no  more  than  a  few  hours  in  that  person’s 
life,  and  yet  not  be  reducible  to  the  limits  of 
a  short  story  without  losing  all  significance 
and  interest.  It  depends  on  the  character  of 
the  subject  chosen. 


76 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

Since  the  novel-about-one-person  has  been 
touched  on,  it  may  be  well,  before  going  far¬ 
ther,  to  devote  a  short  parenthesis  to  its 
autobiographical  or  “subjective”  variety.  In 
the  study  of  novel-technique  one  might  al¬ 
most  set  aside  the  few  masterpieces  in  this 
class,  such  as  the  “Princesse  de  Cleves,” 
“Adolphe”  and  “Dominique,”  as  not  novels 
at  all,  any  more  than  Musset’s  “Confession 
d’un  Enfant  du  Si£cle”  is  a  novel.  They  are, 
in  fact,  all  fragments  of  autobiography  by 
writers  of  genius;  and  the  autobiographical 
gift  does  not  seem  very  closely  related  to  that 
of  fiction.  In  the  case  of  the  authors  men¬ 
tioned,  none  but  Madame  de  La  Fayette  ever 
published  another  novel,  and  her  other  at¬ 
tempts  were  without  interest.  In  all  the  arts 
abundance  seems  to  be  one  of  the  surest  signs 
of  vocation.  It  exists  on  the  lowest  scale, 
and,  in  the  art  of  fiction,  belongs  as  much  to 
the  producer  of  “railway  novels”  as  to  Bal¬ 
zac,  Thackeray  or  Tolstoy;  yet  it  almost  al¬ 
ways  marks  the  great  creative  artist.  What¬ 
ever  a  man  has  it  in  him  to  do  really  well  he 

77 


.  THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

usually  keeps  on  doing  with  an  indestructible 
persistency. 

There  is  another  sign  which  sets  apart  the 
born  novelist  from  the  authors  of  self-con¬ 
fessions  in  novel-form;  that  is,  the  absence 
of  the  objective  faculty  in  the  latter.  The 
subjective  writer  lacks  the  power  of  getting 
far  enough  away  from  his  story  to  view  it  as 
a  whole  and  relate  it  to  its  setting;  his  minor 
characters  remain  the  mere  satellites  of  the 
principal  personage  (himself),  and  disappear 
when  not  lit  up  by  their  central  luminary. 

Such  books  are  sometimes  masterpieces; 
but  if  by  the  term  “art  of  fiction”  be  under¬ 
stood  the  creation  of  imaginary  characters 
and  the  invention  of  their  imaginary  experi¬ 
ences — and  there  seems  no  more  convenient 
definition — then  the  autobiographical  tale  is 
not  strictly  a  novel,  since  no  objectively  cre¬ 
ative  effort  has  gone  to  its  making. 

It  does  not  follow  that  born  novelists 
never  write  autobiographical  novels.  In¬ 
stances  to  the  contrary  will  occur  to  every 
one  and  none  more  obvious  than  that  of 

78 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

“The  Kreutzer  Sonata.”  There  is  a  gulf  be¬ 
tween  such  a  book  and  “Adolphe.”  Tol¬ 
stoy’s  tale,  though  almost  avowedly  the 
study  of  his  own  tortured  soul,  is  as  objec¬ 
tive  as  Othello.  The  magic  transposition  has 
taken  place;  in  reading  the  story  we  do  not 
feel  ourselves  to  be  in  a  resuscitated  '‘real 
world  (a  sort  of  Tussaud  Museum  of  wax  fig¬ 
ures  with  actual  clothes  on),  but  in  that 
other  world  which  is  the  image  of  life  trans¬ 
posed  in  the  brain  of  the  artist,  a  world 
wherein  the  creative  breath  has  made  all 
things  new.  If  one  happened  to  begin  one’s 
acquaintance  with  Tolstoy  by  reading  “The 
Kreutzer  Sonata”  one  would  not  need  to  be 
told  that  it  was  the  creation  of  a  brain  work¬ 
ing  objectively,  a  brain  which  had  produced, 
or  was  likely  to  produce,  other  novels  of  a 
wholly  different  kind;  whereas  of  such  books 
as  “Dominique”  or  “Adolphe,”  were  one  to 
light  on  them  as  unpreparedly,  one  would 
say:  “This  is  not  the  invention  of  a  novelist 
but  the  self-analysis  of  a  man  of  genius.” 

There  is  one  famous  book  which  might  be 

79 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

described  as  the  link  between  the  real  novel 
and  the  autobiography  in  novel-disguise. 
This  is  Goethe’s  “Werther.”  Here  a  youth 
of  genius,  as  yet  unpractised  in  the  art  of 
fiction,  has  related,  under  the  thinnest  of 
concealments,  the  story  of  his  own  unhappy 
love.  The  tale  is  intensely  subjective.  The 
hero  is  never  once  seen  from  the  outside ,  the 
minor  figures  are  hardly  drawn  out  of  the 
limbo  of  the  unrealized;  yet  how  instantly 
the  difference  between  “Werther”  and 
“Adolphe”  declares  itself!  The  latter  tale  is 
completely  self-contained;  it  never  suggests 
in  the  writer  the  power  or  the  desire  to  pro¬ 
ject  a  race  of  imaginary  characters.  “Wer¬ 
ther”  does.  Every  page  thrills  with  the 
dawning  gift  of  creation.  The  lover  has  not 
been  too  much  absorbed  in  his  own  anguish 
to  turn  its  light  on  things  external  to  him. 
The  young  Goethe  who  has  noted  Charlotte’s 
way  of  cutting  the  bread-and-butter  for  her 
little  brothers  and  sisters,  and  set  down  the 
bourgeois  humours  and  the  sylvan  charm  of 
the  ball  in  the  forest,  is  already  a  novelist. 

80 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


IV 

The  question  of  form — already  defined  as 
the  order,  in  time  and  importance,  in  which 
the  incidents  of  the  narrative  are  grouped — 
is,  for  obvious  reasons,  harder  to  deal  with 
in  the  novel  than  in  the  short  story,  and  most 
difficult  in  the  novel  of  manners,  with  its 
more  crowded  stage,  and  its  continual  inter¬ 
weaving  of  individual  with  social  analysis.  v 
The  English  novelists  of  the  early  nine¬ 
teenth  century  were  still  farther  enslaved  by 
the  purely  artificial  necessity  of  the  double 
plot.  Two  parallel  series  of  adventures,  in 
which  two  separate  groups  of  people  were 
concerned,  sometimes  with  hardly  a  link  be¬ 
tween  the  two,  and  always  without  any  deep 
organic  connection,  were  served  up  in  alter¬ 
nating  sections.  Throughout  the  novels  of 
Dickens,  George  Eliot,  Trollope  and  the  ma¬ 
jority  of  their  contemporaries,  this  tedious 
and  senseless  convention  persists,  checking 
the  progress  of  each  series  of  events  and  dis¬ 
tracting  the  reader’s  attention.  The  artificial 

81 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

trick  of  keeping  two  stories  going  like  a  jug¬ 
gler’s  ball  is  entirely  different  from  the  at¬ 
tempt  to  follow  the  interwoven  movements 
of  typical  social  groups,  as  Thackeray  did  in 
“Vanity  Fair”  and  “The  Newcomes,”  Bal¬ 
zac  in  “Le  Pere  Goriot.”  In  these  cases  the 
separate  groups,  either  families  or  larger 
units,  in  a  sense  impersonate  the  -protagonists  of 
the  tale ,  and  their  fates  are  as  closely  inter¬ 
woven  as  those  of  the  two  or  three  persons 
on  the  narrow  stage  of  a  tale  like  “Silas 
Marner.” 

The  double  plot  has  long  since  vanished, 
and  the  “plot”  itself,  in  the  sense  of  an  elab¬ 
orate  puzzle  into  which  a  given  number  of 
characters  have  to  be  arbitrarily  fitted,  has 
gone  with  it  to  the  lumber-room  of  discarded 
conventions.  But  traces  of  the  parallel  story 
linger  in  the  need  often  felt  by  young  writers 
of  crowding  their  scene  with  supernumera¬ 
ries.  The  temptation  is  specially  great  in  com¬ 
posing  the  novel  of  manners.  If  one  is  under¬ 
taking  to  depict  a  “section  of  life,”  how 
avoid  a  crowded  stage?  The  answer  is,  by 

82. 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

choosing  as  principal  characters  figures  so 
typical  that  each  connotes  a  whole  section  of 
the  social  background.  It  is  the  unnecessary 
characters  who  do  the  crowding,  who  con¬ 
fuse  the  reader  by  uselessly  dispersing  his 
attention;  but  even  the  number  of  subordi¬ 
nate  yet  necessary  characters  may  be  greatly 
reduced  by  making  the  principal  figures  so 
typical  that  they  adumbrate  most  of  the 
others. 

The  traditions  of  the  Theatre  Frangais  used 
to  require  that  the  number  of  objects  on  the 
stage — chairs,  tables,  even  to  a  glass  of  water 
on  a  table — should  be  limited  to  the  actual 
requirements  of  the  drama:  the  chairs  must 
all  be  sat  in,  the  table  carry  some  object 
necessary  to  the  action,  the  glass  of  water  or 
decanter  of  wine  be  a  part  of  the  drama. 

The  stage-realism  introduced  from  Eng¬ 
land  a  generation  ago  submerged  these  scenic 
landmarks  under  a  flood  of  irrelevant  up¬ 
holstery;  but  as  guides  in  the  labyrinth  of 
composition  they  are  still  standing,  as  neces¬ 
sary  to  the  novelist  as  to  the  playwright.  In 

83 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


both  cases  a  far  profounder  effect  is  produced 
by  the  penetrating  study  of  a  few  characters 
than  by  the  multiplying  of  half-drawn  fig¬ 
ures.  Neither  novelist  nor  playwright  should 
ever  venture  on  creating  a  character  without 
first  following  it  out  to  the  end  of  the  pro¬ 
jected  tale  and  being  sure  that  the  latter  will 
be  the  poorer  for  its  absence.  Characters 
whose  tasks  have  not  been  provided  for  them 
in  advance  are  likely  to  present  as  embarrassing 
problems  as  other  types  of  the  unemployed. 

In  the  number  of  characters  introduced,  as 
much  as  in  the  scenic  details  given,  relevance 
is  the  first,  the  arch,  necessity.  And  charac¬ 
ters  and  scenic  detail  are  in  fact  one  to  the 
novelist  who  has  fully  assimilated  his  ma¬ 
terial.  The  moon-enchanted  hollow  of  Wil- 
ming  Weir  in  “Sandra  Belloni’’  is  as  much 
the  landscape  of  Emilia’s  soul  as  of  a  corner 
of  England;  it  was  one  of  George  Meredith’s 
distinguishing  merits  that  he  always  made 
his  art  as  a  landscape-painter  contribute  to 
the  interpretation  of  his  tale,  so  that  such 
scenes  as  that  of  Wilming  Weir,  the  sunrise 

84 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

from  the  top  of  Monte  Motterone  in  the 
opening  chapter  of  “Vittoria,”  and  the  de¬ 
licious  wall-flower-coloured  picture  of  the 
farm-house  in  “Harry  Richmond,”  are  all 
necessary  parts  of  the  novels  in  which  they 
figure,  and  above  all  are  seen  as  the  people 
to  whom  they  happened  would  have  seen  them. 

This  leads  to  another  important  principle.. 
The  impression  produced  by  a  landscape,  a 
street  or  a  house  should  always,  to  the  novel¬ 
ist,  be  an  event  in  the  history  of  a  soul,  and 
the  use  of  the  “descriptive  passage,”  and  its 
style,  should  be  determined  by  the  fact  that 
it  must  depict  only  what  the  intelligence 
concerned  would  have  noticed,  and  always 
in  terms  within  the  register  of  that  intelli¬ 
gence.  Two  instances,  illustrating  respect¬ 
ively  the  observance  and  the  neglect  of  this 
rule,  may  be  cited  from  the  novels  of  Mr. 
Hardy:  the  first,  that  memorable  evocation 
of  Egdon  Heath  by  night,  as  Eustacia  Vye 
looks  forth  on  it  from  Rainbarrow;  the 
other,  the  painfully  detailed  description,  in 
all  its  geological  and  agricultural  details, 

85  ' 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


of  the  Wessex  vale  through  which  another 
of  Mr.  Hardy’s  heroines,  unseeing,  wretched, 
and  incapable  at  any  time  of  noting  such 
particularities  as  it  has  amused  her  creator 
to  set  down,  flies  blindly  to  her  doom. 

V 

The  two  central  difficulties  of  the  novel — 
both  of  which  may  at  first  appear  purely 
technical — are  still  to  be  considered.  They 
have  to  do  with  the  choice  of  the  point  from 
which  the  subject  is  to  be  seen,  and  with  the 
attempt  to  produce  on  the  reader  the  effect  of 
the  passage  of  time.  Both  may  “appear 
purely  technical”;  but  even  were  it  possible 
to  draw  a  definite  line  between  the  technique 
of  a  work  of  art  and  its  informing  spirit,  the 
points  in  question  go  too  deep  to  be  so 
classed.  They  are  rooted  in  the  subject;  and — 
as  always,  in  the  last  issue — the  subject  itself 
must  determine  and  limit  their  office. 

It  was  remarked  in  the  chapter  on  the  short 
story  that  the  same  experience  never  happens 

86 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

to  any  two  people,  and  that  the  story-teller’s 
first  care,  after  the  choice  of  a  subject,  is  to 
decide  to  which  of  his  characters  the  episode 
in  question  happened,  since  it  could  not  have 
happened  in  that  particular  way  to  more 
than  one.  Applied  to  the  novel  this  may 
seem  a  hard  saying,  since  the  longer  passage 
of  time  and  more  crowded  field  of  action  pre¬ 
suppose,  on  the  part  of  the  visualizing  char¬ 
acter,  a  state  of  omniscience  and  omnipres¬ 
ence  likely  to  shake  the  reader’s  sense  of 
probability.  The  difficulty  is  most  often  met 
by  shifting  the  point  of  vision  from  one  char¬ 
acter  to  another,  in  such  a  way  as  to  compre¬ 
hend  the  whole  history  and  yet  preserve  the 
unity  of  impression.  In  the  interest  of  this 
unity  it  is  best  to  shift  as  seldom  as  possible, 
and  to  let  the  tale  work  itself  out  from  not 
more  than  two  (or  at  most  three)  angles  of 
vision,  choosing  as  reflecting  consciousnesses 
persons  either  in  close  mental  and  moral  re¬ 
lation  to  each  other,  or  discerning  enough  to 
estimate  each  other’s  parts  in  the  drama,  so 
that  the  latter,  even  viewed  from  different 

87 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

angles,  always  presents  itself  to  the  reader 
as  a  whole. 

The  choice  of  such  reflectors  is  not  easy; 
still  more  arduous  is  the  task  of  determining 
at  what  point  each  is  to  be  turned  on  the 
scene.  The  only  possible  rule  seems  to  be  that 
when  things  happen  which  the  first  reflector 
cannot,  with  any  show  of  probability,  be 
aware  of,  or  is  incapable  of  reacting  to,  even 
if  aware,  then  another,  an  adjoining,  con¬ 
sciousness  is  required  to  take  up  the  tale. 

Thus  drily  stated,  the  formula  may  seem 
pedantic  and  arbitrary;  but  it  will  be  found 
to  act  of  itself  in  the  hands  of  the  novelist 
who  has  so  let  his  subject  ripen  in  his  mind 
that  the  characters  are  as  close  to  him  as  his 
own  flesh.  To  the  novelist  who  lives  among 
his  creations  in  this  continuous  intimacy 
they  should  pour  out  their  tale  almost  as  if 
to  a  passive  spectator. 

The  problem  of  the  co-ordinating  con¬ 
sciousness  has  visibly  disturbed  many  novel¬ 
ists,  and  the  different  solutions  attempted 
are  full  of  interest  and  instruction.  Each  is  of 

88 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


course  but  another  convention,  and  no  con¬ 
vention  is  in  itself  objectionable,  but  be¬ 
comes  so  only  when  wrongly  used,  as  dirt, 
according  to  the  happy  definition,  is  only 
“matter  in  the  wrong  place.” 

Verisimilitude  is  the  truth  of  art,  and  any 
convention  which  hinders  the  illusion  is  ob¬ 
viously  in  the  wrong  place.  Few  hinder  it 
more  than  the  slovenly  habit  of  some  novel¬ 
ists  of  tumbling  in  and  out  of  their  charac¬ 
ters’  minds,  and  then  suddenly  drawing  back 
to  scrutinize  them  from  the  outside  as  the 
avowed  Showman  holding  his  puppets’ 
strings.  All  the  greatest  modern  novelists 
have  felt  this,  and  sought,  though  often  half- 
unconsciously,  to  find  a  way  out  of  the  diffi¬ 
culty.  The  most  interesting  experiments 
made  in  this  respect  have  been  those  of  James 
and  Conrad,  to  both  of  whom — though  in 
ways  how  different! — the  novel  was  always 
by  definition  a  work  of  art,  and  therefore 
worthy  of  the  creator’s  utmost  effort. 

James  sought  the  effect  of  verisimilitude 
by  rigorously  confining  every  detail  of  his 

89 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


picture  to  the  range,  and  also  to  the  capacity, 
of  the  eye  fixed  on  it.  “In  the  Cage”  is  a  curi¬ 
ously  perfect  example  of  the  experiment  on  a 
small  scale,  only  one  very  restricted  field  of 
vision  being  permitted.  In  his  longer  and 
more  eventful  novels,  where  the  transition 
from  one  consciousness  to  another  became 
necessary,  he  contrived  it  with  such  unfail¬ 
ing  ingenuity  that  the  reader’s  visual  range 
was  continuously  enlarged  by  the  substitu¬ 
tion  of  a  second  consciousness  whenever  the 
boundaries  of  the  first  were  exceeded.  “The 
Wings  of  the  Dove”  gives  an  interesting  ex¬ 
ample  of  these  transitions.  In  “The  Golden 
Bowl,”  still  unsatisfied,  still  in  pursuit  of  an 
impossible  perfection,  he  felt  he  must  intro¬ 
duce  a  sort  of  co-ordinating  consciousness  de¬ 
tached  from,  but  including,  the  characters 
principally  concerned.  The  same  attempt  to 
wrest  dramatic  forms  to  the  uses  of  the  novel 
that  caused  “The  Awkward  Age”  to  be  writ¬ 
ten  in  dialogue  seems  to  have  suggested  the 
creation  of  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Assingham  as  a 
sort  of  Greek  chorus  to  the  tragedy  of  “The 

90 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


Golden  Bowl.”  This  insufferable  and  incred¬ 
ible  couple  spend  their  days  in  espionage  and 
delation,  and  their  evenings  in  exchanging 
the  reports  of  their  eaves ’-dropping  with  a 
minuteness  and  precision  worthy  of  Scotland 
Yard.  The  utter  improbability  of  such  con¬ 
duct  on  the  part  of  a  dull-witted  and  frivol¬ 
ous  couple  in  the  rush  of  London  society 
shows  that  the  author  created  them  for  the 
sole  purpose  of  revealing  details  which  he 
could  not  otherwise  communicate  without 
lapsing  into  the  character  of  the  mid-Vic- 
torian  novelist  chatting  with  his  readers  of 
“my  heroine”  in  the  manner  of  Thackeray 
and  Dickens.  Convention  for  convention 
(and  both  are  bad),  James’s  is  perhaps  even 
more  unsettling  to  the  reader’s  confidence 
than  the  old-fashioned  intrusion  of  the  au¬ 
thor  among  his  puppets.  Both  ought  to  be 
avoided,  and  may  be,  as  other  great  novels 
are  there  to  prove. 

Conrad’s  preoccupation  was  the  same,  but 
he  sought  to  solve  it  in  another  way,  by  cre¬ 
ating  what  someone  has  aptly  called  a  ‘‘hall 

91 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

of  mirrors,”  a  series  of  reflecting  conscious¬ 
nesses,  all  belonging  to  people  who  are  out¬ 
side  of  the  story  but  accidentally  drawn  into 
its  current,  and  not,  like  the  Assinghams, 
forced  into  it  for  the  sole  purpose  of  acting 
as  spies  and  eaves’-droppers. 

The  method  did  not  originate  with  Con¬ 
rad.  In  that  most  perfectly-composed  of  all 
,^/short  stories,  ‘‘La  Grande  Breteche,”  Balzac 
showed  what  depth,  mystery,  and  verisimili¬ 
tude  may  be  given  to  a  tale  by  causing  it  to 
be  reflected,  in  fractions,  in  the  minds  of  a 
series  of  accidental  participants  or  mere 
lookers-on.  The  relator  of  the  tale,  casually 
detained  in  a  provincial  town,  is  struck  by 
the  ruinous  appearance  of  one  of  its  hand¬ 
somest  houses.  He  makes  his  way  into  the 
deserted  garden,  and  is  at  once  called  on  by 
a  solicitor  who  informs  him  that,  according 
to  the  will  of  the  lately  deceased  owner,  no 
one  is  to  be  permitted  on  the  premises  till 
fifty  years  after  her  death.  The  visitor,  whose 
curiosity  is  naturally  excited,  next  learns 
from  the  landlady  of  his  inn  that,  though  she 

92. 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


has  never  known  the  exact  facts  of  the  trag¬ 
edy,  she  knows  there  has  been  one,  and  that  a 
person  whom  she  suspects  of  having  played 
a  part  in  it  is  actually  lodged  under  her  roof. 
From  the  landlady  the  narrator  carries  his 
enquiries  to  the  maid-servant  of  the  inn,  who 
had  been  in  the  service  of  the  dead  lady,  and 
who  confides  to  him  the  dreadful  scenes  of 
which  she  was  a  helpless  and  horror-struck 
witness;  and,  grouping  these  fragments  in 
his  own  more  comprehending  mind,  he  final¬ 
ly  gives  them  to  the  reader  in  their  ghastly 
completeness. 

Even  George  Meredith,  whose  floods  of 
improvisation  seem  to  have  been  so  rarely 
hampered  by  any  concern  as  to  the  composi¬ 
tion  of  his  novels,  was  now  and  then  visibly 
perplexed  by  the  question  of  how  to  pass 
from  the  mind  of  one  character  to  another 
without  too  violent  a  jolt  to  the  reader.  In 
one  instance — in  one  of  those  “big  scenes” 
which,  as  George  Eliot  said,  “write  them¬ 
selves” — he  attempted,  probably  on  the  spur 
of  the  moment,  a  solution  which  proved  ad- 

93 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


mirably  successful — for  that  particular  occa¬ 
sion.  In  the  memorable  talk  in  the  course  of 
which  the  inarticulate  Rhoda  Fleming  and 
her  tongue-tied  suitor  finally  discover  them¬ 
selves  to  each  other,  the  novelist,  to  show 
how  tongue-tied  both  were,  and  yet  convey 
the  emotion  beneath  their  halting  monosyl¬ 
lables,  hit  on  the  device  of  putting  in  paren¬ 
thesis,  after  each  phrase,  what  the  speaker 
was  actually  thinking.  It  is  one  of  the  great 
pages  of  the  book;  yet  even  in  the  enchant¬ 
ment  of  first  reading  it  one  is  aware  of  admir¬ 
ing  a  mere  acrobatic  feat,  a  sort  of  breathless 
chasse-croise  which  could  not  have  been  kept 
up  for  another  page  without  straining  the 
reader’s  patience  and  his  sense  of  likelihood. 
Meredith  was  a  genius,  and  his  instinct 
for  effect  made  him,  at  a  crucial  moment, 
stumble  on  a  successful  trick;  but,  because 
he  was  a  genius,  he  did  not  prolong  or  re¬ 
peat  it. 

The  reason  why  such  sudden  changes  from 
one  mind  to  another  are  fatiguing  and  disil¬ 
lusioning  was  summed  up — though  for  a  dif- 

94 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


ferent  purpose — in  a  vivid  phrase  of  George 
Eliot’s.  It  is  in  the  chapter  of  “Middle- 
march”  which  records  the  talk  between  Dor¬ 
othea  and  Celia  Brooke,  after  the  latter’s 
first  meeting  with  the  austere  and  pompous 
Mr.  Casaubon,  whom  her  elder  sister  so  un¬ 
accountably  admires.  The  frivolous  Celia  is 
profoundly  disappointed:  she  finds  Mr.  Ca¬ 
saubon  very  ugly.  Dorothea,  at  this,  haugh¬ 
tily  lets  drop  that  he  reminds  her  of  the  por¬ 
traits  of  Locke.  Celia :  ‘  ‘Had  Locke  those  two 
white  moles  with  hairs  on  them?’  ’  Dorothea : 
“Oh,  I  daresay',  when  people  of  a  certain  sort 
looked  at  him." 

That  answer  sums  up  the  whole  dilemma. 
Before  beginning  his  tale,  the  novelist  must 
decide  whether  it  is  to  be  seen  through  eyes 
given  to  noting  white  moles,  or  to  discover¬ 
ing  “the  visionary  butterfly  alit”  on  faces  so 
disfigured.  He  cannot  have  it  both  ways  and 
still  hope  to  persuade  his  reader. 

The  other  difficulty  is  that  of  communicat¬ 
ing  the  effect  of  the  gradual  passage  of  time 
in  such  a  way  that  the  modifying  and  matur- 

95 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

in g  of  the  characters  shall  seem  not  an  arbi¬ 
trary  sleight-of-hand  but  the  natural  result 
of  growth  in  age  and  experience.  This  is  the 
great  mystery  of  the  art  of  fiction.  The  secret 
seems  incommunicable;  one  can  only  conjec¬ 
ture  that  it  has  to  do  with  the  novelist’s  own 
deep  belief  in  his  characters  and  what  he  is 
telling  about  them.  He  knows  that  this  and 
that  befell  them,  and  that  in  the  interval  be¬ 
tween  this  and  that  the  months  and  years 
have  continued  their  slow  task  of  erosion  or 
accretion;  and  he  conveys  this  knowledge  by 
some  subterranean  process  as  hard  to  seize  in 
action  as  the  growth  of  a  plant.  A  study  of 
the  great  novelists — and  especially  of  Balzac, 
Thackeray,  and  Tolstoy — will  show  that 
such  changes  are  suggested,  are  arrived  at,  in 
the  inconspicuous  transitional  pages  of  nar¬ 
rative  that  lead  from  climax  to  climax.  One 
of  the  means  by  which  the  effect  is  produced 
is  certainly  that  of  not  fearing  to  go  slowly, 
to  keep  down  the  tone  of  the  narrative,  to  be 
as  colourless  and  quiet  as  life  often  is  in  the 
intervals  between  its  high  moments. 

96 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

Another  difficulty  connected  with  this  one 
is  that  of  keeping  so  firm  a  hold  on  the  main 
lines  of  one’s  characters  that  they  emerge 
modified  and  yet  themselves  from  the  ripen¬ 
ing  or  disintegrating  years.  Tolstoy  had  this 
gift  to  a  supreme  degree.  Wherever  in  the 
dense  forest  of  “War  and  Peace’’  a  character 
reappears,  often  after  an  interval  so  long 
that  the  ear  has  almost  lost  the  sound  to  which 
he  rhymes ,  he  is  at  once  recognized  as  the 
same,  profoundly  the  same,  yet  scored  by 
new  lines  of  suffering  and  experience.  Nata- 
cha,  grown  into  the  fat  slovenly  mere-de-fa- 
mille  of  the  last  chapters,  is  incredibly  like 
and  yet  different  to  the  phantom  of  delight 
who  first  captivated  Prince  Andrew;  and  the 
Prince  himself,  in  those  incomparable  pages 
devoted  to  his  long  illness,  where  one  watch¬ 
es  the  very  process  of  dematerialization,  the 
detachment  from  earthly  things  happening 
as  naturally  as  the  fall  of  a  leaf,  is  the  same  as 
the  restless  and  unhappy  man  who  appears 
with  his  pathetic  irritating  little  wife  at  the 
evening  party  of  the  first  chapter. 

97 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

Becky  Sharp,  Arthur  Pendennis,  Dorothea 
Casaubon,  Lydgate,  Charles  Bovary — with 
what  sure  and  patient  touches  their  growth 
and  decline  are  set  forth!  And  how  mysteri¬ 
ously  yet  unmistakably,  as  they  reappear 
after  each  interval,  the  sense  is  conveyed  that 
there  has  been  an  interval,  not  in  moral  ex¬ 
perience  only  but  in  the  actual  lapse  of  the 
seasons !  The  producing  of  this  impression  is 
indeed  the  central  mystery  of  the  art.  To  its 
making  go  patience,  meditation,  concentra¬ 
tion,  all  the  quiet  habits  of  mind  now  so 
little  practised,  so  seldom  inculcated;  and  to 
these  must  be  added  the  final  imponderable, 
genius,  without  which  the  rest  is  useless,  and 
which,  conversely,  would  be  unusable  with¬ 
out  the  rest. 


VI 

The  evening  party  with  which  *  ‘War  and 
Peace”  begins  is  one  of  the  most  triumphant 
examples  in  fiction  of  the  difficult  art  of  “sit¬ 
uating”  the  chief  actors  in  the  opening  chap¬ 
ter  of  what  is  to  be  an  exceptionally  crowded 

98 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

novel.  No  reader  is  likely  to  forget,  or  to 
confuse  the  one  with  the  other,  the  succes¬ 
sive  arrivals  at  that  dull  and  trivial  St.  Pe¬ 
tersburg  reception;  Tolstoy  with  one  mighty 
sweep  gathers  up  all  his  principal  characters 
and  sets  them  before  us  in  action.  Very  dif¬ 
ferent — though  so  notable  an  achievement  in 
its  way — is  the  first  chapter  of  “The  Kara- 
mazoff  Brothers”  (in  the  English  or  German 
translation — for  the  current  French  transla¬ 
tion  inexplicably  omits  it).  In  this  chapter 
Dostoievsky  has  hung  a  gallery  of  portraits 
against  a  blank  wall.  He  describes  all  the 
members  of  the  Karamazoff  family,  one  after 
another,  with  merciless  precision  and  infer¬ 
nal  insight.  But  there  they  remain  hanging 
— or'standing.  The  reader  is  told  all  about 
them,  but  is  not  allowed  to  surprise  them  in 
action.  The  story  about  them  begins  after¬ 
ward,  whereas  in  “War  and  Peace”  the  first 
paragraph  leads  into  the  thick  of  the  tale, 
and  every  phrase,  every  gesture,  carries  it  on 
with  that  slow  yet  sweeping  movement  of 
which  Tolstoy  ajone  was  capable. 

99 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


Many  thickly-peopled  novels  begin  more 
gradually — like  “Vanity  Fair,’’  for  example 
— and  introduce  their  characters  in  carefully- 
ordered  succession.  The  process  is  obviously 
simpler,  and  in  certain  cases  as  effective.  The 
morning  stroll  of  M.  and  Mme.  Reynal  and 
their  little  boys,  in  the  first  chapter  of  “Le 
Rouge  et  le  Noir,”  sounds  a  note  sufficiently 
portentous;  and  so  does  Major  Pendennis’s 
solitary  breakfast.  In  a  general  way  there  is 
much  to  be  said  for  a  quiet  opening  to  a  long 
and  crowded  novel;  though  the  novelist 
might  prefer  to  be  able  to  fling  all  his  char¬ 
acters  on  the  boards  at  once,  with  Tolstoy’s 
regal  prodigality.  There  is  no  fixed  rule  about 
this,  or  about  any  other  method;  each,  in  the 
art  of  fiction,  to  justify  itself  has  only  to  suc¬ 
ceed.  But  to  succeed,  the  method  must  first  of 
all  suit  the  subject,  must  find  its  account,  as 
best  it  can,  with  the  difficulties  peculiar  to 
each  situation. 

The  question  where  to  begin  is  the  next  to 
confront  the  novelist;  and  the  art  of  seizing 
on  the  right  moment  is  even  more  important 

ioo 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

than  that  of  being  able  to  present  a  large 
number  of  characters  at  the  outset. 

Here  again  no  general  rule  can  be  laid 
down.  One  subject  may  require  to  be  treated 
from  the  centre,  in  the  fashion  dear  to  Henry 
James,  with  its  opening  in  the  heart  of  the 
action,  and  retrospective  vistas  radiating 
away  from  it  on  all  sides,  while  others — of 
which  “Henry  Esmond”  is  one  of  the  most 
beautiful  examples — would  lose  all  their 
bloom  were  they  not  allowed  to  ripen  almost 
imperceptibly  under  the  reader’s  absorbed 
contemplation.  Balzac,  in  his  preface  to  “La 
Chartreuse  de  Parme” — almost  the  only  pub¬ 
lic  recognition  of  Stendhal’s  genius  during 
the  latter’s  life-time — reproves  the  author 
for  beginning  the  book  before  its  real  begin¬ 
ning.  Balzac  knew  well  enough  what  the 
world  would  have  lost  had  that  opening 
picture  of  Waterloo  been  left  out;  but  he  in¬ 
sists  that  it  is  no  part  of  the  story  Stendhal 
had  set  out  to  tell,  and  sums  up  with  the  il¬ 
luminating  phrase:  “M.  Beyle  has  chosen  a 
subject  [the  Waterloo  episode]  which  is  real  in 


IOI 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


nature  hut  not  in  art."  That  is,  being  out  of 
place  in  that  particular  work  of  art,  it  loses 
its  reality  as  art  and  remains  merely  a  master¬ 
ly  study  of  a  corner  of  a  battle-field,  the 
greatest  the  world  was  to  know  till  Tol¬ 
stoy’s,  but  no  part  of  a  composition,  as 
Tolstoy’s  always  were. 

VII 

The  length  of  a  novel,  more  surely  even 
than  any  of  its  other  qualities,  needs  to  be 
determined  by  the  subject.  The  novelist 
should  not  concern  himself  beforehand  with 
the  abstract  question  of  length,  should  not 
decide  in  advance  whether  he  is  going  to 
write  a  long  or  a  short  novel;  but  in  the  act 
of  composition  he  must  never  cease  to  bear 
in  mind  that  one  should  always  be  able  to 
say  of  a  novel:  “It  might  have  been  longer,’’ 
never:  “It  need  not  have  been  so  long.” 

Length,  naturally,  is  not  so  much  a  matter 
of  pages  as  of  the  mass  and  quality  of  what 
they  contain.  It  is  obvious  that  a  mediocre 
book  is  always  too  long,  and  that  a  great  one 


102. 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

usually  seems  too  short.  But  beyond  this 
question  of  quality  and  weightiness  lies  the 
more  closely  relevant  one  of  the  development 
which  this  or  that  subject  requires,  the 
amount  of  sail  it  will  carry.  The  great  novel¬ 
ists  have  always  felt  this,  and,  within  an 
inch  or  two,  have  cut  their  cloth  accord¬ 
ingly. 

Mr.  A.  C.  Bradley,  in  his  book  on  Shake¬ 
speare’s  tragedies,  threw  a  new  and  striking 
light  on  the  question  of  length.  In  analyzing 
“Macbeth,”  which  is  so  much  shorter  than 
Shakespeare’s  other  tragedies  that  previous 
commentators  had  always  assumed  the  text 
to  be  incomplete,  he  puts  the  following  ques¬ 
tions:  If  the  text  is  incomplete,  at  what 
points  are  the  supposed  lacunae  to  be  found? 
Does  any  one,  on  first  reading  “Macbeth,” 
feel  it  to  be  too  short,  or  even  notice  that  it  is 
appreciably  less  long  than  the  other  trage¬ 
dies?  And  if  not,  is  it  not  probable  that  we 
have  virtually  the  whole  play  before  us,  and 
that  Shakespeare  knew  he  had  made  it  as 
long  as  the  subject  warranted  and  the  nerves 

103 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


of  his  audience  could  stand?  Whether  or  not 
the  argument  be  thought  convincing  in  the 
given  case,  it  is  an  admirable  example  of 
the  spirit  in  which  works  of  art  should  be 
judged,  and  of  the  only  system  of  weights 
and  measures  applicable  to  them. 

Tolstoy  gave  to  “Ivan  Ilyitch”  just  enough 
development  to  make  a  parable  of  universal 
application  out  of  the  story  of  an  insignifi¬ 
cant  man’s  death.  A  little  more,  and  he 
would  have  dropped  into  the  fussy  and  me¬ 
ticulous,  and  smothered  his  meaning  under 
unnecessary  detail.  Maupassant  was  another 
writer  who  had  an  unerring  sense  for  the 
amount  of  sail  his  subjects  could  carry;  and 
his  work  contains  no  better  proof  of  it  than 
the  tale  of  “Yvette” — that  harrowing  little 
record  of  one  of  the  ways  in  which  the  bloom 
may  be  brushed  from  a  butterfly. 

Henry  James,  in  “The  Turn  of  the  Screw,” 
showed  the  same  perfect  sense  of  proportion. 
He  had  ventured  to  expand  into  a  short  novel 
the  kind  of  tale  usually  imposed  on  the  imag¬ 
ination  in  a  single  flash  of  horror;  but  his 

104 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

instinct  told  him  that  to  go  farther  was  im¬ 
possible.  The  posthumous  fragment,  “The 
Sense  of  the  Past,”  shows  that  he  was  again 
experimenting  with  the  supernatural  as  a 
subject  for  a  long  novel;  and  in  this  instance 
one  feels  that  he  was  about  to  risk  over-bur¬ 
dening  his  theme.  When  I  read  M.  Maeter¬ 
linck’s  book  on  the  bee  (which  had  just 
made  a  flight  into  fame  as  high  as  that  of  the 
insect  it  celebrates)  I  was  first  dazzled,  then 
oppressed,  by  the  number  and  the  choice  of 
his  adjectives  and  analogies.  Every  touch 
was  effective,  every  comparison  striking;  but 
when  I  had  assimilated  them  all,  and  remade 
out  of  them  the  ideal  BEE,  that  animal  had 
become  a  winged  elephant.  The  lesson  was 
salutary  for  a  novelist. 

The  great  writers  of  fiction — Balzac,  Tol¬ 
stoy,  Thackeray,  George  Eliot  (how  one  has 
to  return  to  them!) — all  had  a  sense  for  the 
proportion  of  their  subjects,  and  knew  that 
the  great  argument  requires  space.  There  are 
few  things  more  exquisite  in  minor  English 
verse  than  Ben  Jonson’s  epitaph  on  Salathiel 

105 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

Pavy;  but  “Paradise  Lost”  needs  more  room, 
and  the  fact  that  it  does  is  one  of  the  elements 
of  its  greatness.  The  point  is  to  know  at  the 
start  if  one  has  in  hand  a  Salathiel  Pavy 
theme  or  a  “Paradise  Lost”  one. 

-  In  no  novelist  was  this  instinct  more  un¬ 
erring  than  in  the  impeccable  Jane  Austen. 
Never  is  there  any  danger  of  finding  any  of 
her  characters  out  of  proportion  or  rattling 
around  in  their  setting.  The  same  may  be 
said  of  Tolstoy,  at  the  opposite  end  of  the 
scale.  His  epic  gift — the  power  of  immedi¬ 
ately  establishing  the  right  proportion  be¬ 
tween  his  characters  and  the  scope  of  their 
adventure — seems  never  to  have  failed  him. 
“War  and  Peace”  and  Flaubert’s  “Educa¬ 
tion  Sentimentale”  are  two  of  the  longest  of 
modern  novels.  Flaubert  too  was  endowed 
with  the  rare  instinct  of  scale;  but  there  are 
moments  when  even  his  most  ardent  admir¬ 
ers  feel  that  “L’Education  Sentimentale”  is 
too  long  for  its  carrying-power:  whereas  in 
the  very  first  pages  of  “War  and  Peace”  Tol¬ 
stoy  manages  to  establish  the  right  relation 

106 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

between  subject  and  length.  But  there  is  an¬ 
other  difference  between  the  great  novel  and 
the  merely  long  one.  Even  the  longest  and 
most  seemingly  desultory  novels  of  such  wri¬ 
ters  as  Balzac,  Flaubert  and  Tolstoy  follow  a 
prescribed  orbit;  they  are  true  to  the  eternal 
effort  of  art  to  complete  what  in  life  seems  in¬ 
coherent  and  fragmentary.  This  sense  of  the 
great  theme  sweeping  around  on  its  allotted 
track  in  the  “most  ancient  heavens”  is  com¬ 
municated  on  the  first  page  of  such  novels  as 
“War  and  Peace”  and  “L’Education  Senti- 
mentale”;  it  is  the  lack  of  this  intrinsic  form 
that  marks  the  other  kind  of  long  novel 
as  merely  long. 

M.  Romain  Rolland’s  “Jean-Christophe” 
might  be  cited  as  a  case  in  point.  In  a  succes¬ 
sion  of  volumes,  planned  at  the  outset  as 
parts  of  a  great  whole,  he  tells  a  series  of 
consecutive  soul-adventures,  none  without 
interest;  but  such  hint  of  scale  as  there  is  in 
the  first  volume  seems  to  warrant  no  more 
than  that  one,  and  the  reader  feels  that  if 
there  are  more  there  is  no  reason  why  there 

io7 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


should  not  be  any  number.  This  impression 
is  produced  not  by  the  lack  of  a  plan,  but  of 
that  subtler  kind  of  composition  which,  in¬ 
spired  by  the  sense  of  form,  and  deducing  the 
length  of  a  book  from  the  importance  of  its 
argument,  creates  figures  proportioned  to 
their  setting,  and  launches  them  with  a  sure 
hand  on  their  destined  path. 

The  question  of  the  length  of  a  novel  nat¬ 
urally  leads  to  the  considering  of  its  end; 
but  of  this  there  is  little  to  be  said  that  has 
not  already  been  implied  by  the  way,  since 
no  conclusion  can  be  right  which  is  not  la¬ 
tent  in  the  first  page.  About  no  part  of  a 
novel  should  there  be  a  clearer  sense  of  inev¬ 
itability  than  about  its  end;  any  hesitation, 
any  failure  to  gather  up  all  the  threads, 
shows  that  the  author  has  not  let  his  subject 
mature  in  his  mind.  A  novelist  who  does  not 
know  when  his  story  is  finished,  but  goes  on 
stringing  episode  to  episode  after  it  is  over, 
not  only  weakens  the  effect  of  the  conclu¬ 
sion,  but  robs  of  significance  all  that  has 
gone  before. 

108 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


But  if  the  form  of  the  end  is  inevitably  de¬ 
termined  by  the  subject,  its  style — using  the 
term,  in  the  sense  already  defined,  to  describe 
the  way  in  which  the  episodes  of  the  narra¬ 
tive  “are  grasped  and  coloured  by  the  au¬ 
thor’s  mind’’ — necessarily  depends  on  his 
sense  of  selection.  At  every  stage  in  the  prog¬ 
ress  of  his  tale  the  novelist  must  rely  on  what 
may  be  called  the  illuminating  incident  to  re-  J 
veal  and  emphasize  the  inner  meaning  of  each 
situation.  Illuminating  incidents  are  the 
magic  casements  of  fiction,  its  vistas  on  in¬ 
finity.  They  are  also  the  most  personal  ele¬ 
ment  in  any  narrative,  the  author’s  most  di¬ 
rect  contribution;  and  nothing  gives  such 
immediate  proof  of  the  quality  of  his  imag¬ 
ination — and  therefore  of  the  richness  of  his 
temperament — as  his  choice  of  such  episodes. 

Lucien  de  Rubempre  (in  “Les  Illusions 
Perdues’’)  writing  drinking  songs  to  pay  for 
the  funeral  of  his  mistress,  who  lies  dying  in 
the  next  room;  Henry  Esmond  watching 
Beatrix  come  down  the  stairs  in  her  scarlet 
stockings  with  silver  clocks;  Stephen  Guest 

109 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


suddenly  dazzled  by  the  curve  of  Maggie 
Tulliver’s  arm  as  she  lifts  it  to  pick  a  flower 
for  him  in  the  conservatory;  Arabella  fling¬ 
ing  the  offal  across  the  hedge  at  Jude;  Emma 
losing  her  temper  with  Miss  Bates  at  the  pic¬ 
nic;  the  midnight  arrival  of  Harry  Rich¬ 
mond’s  father,  in  the  first  chapter  of  that 
glorious  tale :  all  these  scenes  shed  a  circle  of 
light  far  beyond  the  incident  recorded. 

At  the  conclusion  of  a  novel  the  illumina¬ 
ting  incident  need  only  send  its  ray  back¬ 
ward;  but  it  should  send  a  long  enough  shaft 
to  meet  the  light  cast  forward  from  the  first 
page,  as  in  that  poignant  passage  at  the  end 
of  “L’Education  Sentimentale”  where  Mme. 
Arnoux  comes  back  to  see  Frederic  Moreau 
after  long  years  of  separation. 

“He  put  her  endless  questions  about  her¬ 
self  and  her  husband.  She  told  him  that,  in 
order  to  economize  and  pay  their  debts,  they 
had  settled  down  in  a  lost  corner  of  Brittany. 
Arnoux,  almost  always  ailing,  seemed  like 
an  old  man.  Their  daughter  was  married,  at 
Bordeaux;  their  son  was  in  the  colonial 


no 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

army,  at  Mostaganem.  She  lifted  her  head: 
‘But  at  last  I  see  you  again !  I’m  happy’  .  . 
She  asks  him  to  take  her  for  a  walk,  and 
wanders  with  him  through  the  Paris  streets. 
She  is  the  only  woman  he  has  ever  loved,  and 
he  knows  it  now.  The  intervening  years  have 
vanished,  and  they  walk  on,  “absorbed  in 
each  other,  hearing  nothing,  as  if  they  were 
walking  in  the  country  on  a  bed  of  dead 
leaves.”  Then  they  return  to  the  young  man’s 
rooms,  and  Mme.  Arnoux,  sitting  down, 
takes  off  her  hat. 

“The  lamp,  placed  on  a  console,  lit  up  her 
white  hair.  The  sight  was  like  a  blow  on  his 
chest.  ’  ’  He  tries  to  keep  up  a  pretense  of  senti¬ 
mentalizing;  but  “she  watched  the  clock, 
and  he  continued  to  walk  up  and  down, 
smoking.  Neither  could  find  anything  to  say 
to  the  other.  In  all  separations  there  comes  a 
moment  when  the  beloved  is  no  longer  with 
us.”  This  is  all;  but  every  page  that  has  gone 
before  is  lit  up  by  the  tragic  gleam  of  Mme. 
Arnoux ’s  white  hair. 

The  same  note  is  sounded  in  the  chapter  of 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


“The  Golden  Bowl”  where  the  deeply,  the 
doubly  betrayed  Maggie,  walking  up  and 
down  in  the  summer  evening  on  the  terrace 
of  Fawns,  looks  in  at  the  window  of  the 
smoking-room,  where  her  father,  her  hus¬ 
band  and  her  step-mother  (who  is  her  hus¬ 
band’s  mistress)  are  playing  bridge  together, 
unconscious  of  her  scrutiny.  As  she  looks  she 
knows  that  she  has  them  at  her  mercy,  and 
that  they  all  (even  her  father)  know  it;  and 
in  the  same  instant  the  sight  of  them  tells 
her  that  “to  feel  about  them  in  any  of  the 
immediate,  inevitable,  assuaging  ways,  the 
ways  usually  open  to  innocence  outraged  and 
generosity  betrayed,  would  have  been  to  give 
them  up,  and  that  giving  them  up  was,  marvel¬ 
lously ,  not  to  he  thought  of." 

The  illuminating  incident  is  not  only  the 
proof  of  the  novelist’s  imaginative  sensibil¬ 
ity;  it  is  also  the  best  means  of  giving  pres¬ 
entness,  immediacy,  to  his  tale.  Far  more 
than  on  dialogue  does  the  effect  of  immediacy 
depend  on  the  apt  use  of  the  illuminating  in¬ 
cident;  and  the  more  threads  of  significance 


112. 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


are  gathered  up  into  each  one,  the  more  pages 
of  explanatory  narrative  are  spared  to  writer 
and  reader.  There  is  a  matchless  instance  of 
this  in  “Le  Rouge  et  le  Noir.”  The  young 
Julien  Sorel,  the  tutor  of  the  Reynal  children, 
believes  a  love-affair  with  their  mother  to  be 
the  best  way  of  advancing  his  ambitions,  and 
decides  to  test  his  audacity  by  taking  Mme. 
Reynal’ s  hand  as  they  sit  in  the  garden  in  the 
summer  dusk.  He  has  a  long  struggle  with 
his  natural  timidity  and  her  commanding 
grace  before  he  can  make  even  this  shy  ad¬ 
vance;  and  that  struggle  tells,  in  half  a  page, 
more  of  his  fatuities  and  meannesses,  and  the 
boyish  simplicity  still  underlying  them — and 
more  too  of  the  poor  proud  woman  at  his 
side — than  a  whole  chapter  of  analysis  and 
retrospection.  This  power  to  seize  his  char¬ 
acters  in  their  habit  as  they  live  is  always 
the  surest  proof  of  a  novelist’s  mastery. 

But  the  choice  of  the  illuminating  inci¬ 
dent,  though  so  much,  is  not  all.  As  the 
French  say,  there  is  the  manner.  In  Stendhal’s 
plain  and  straightforward  report  of  the  scene 

II3 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

in  the  garden  every  word,  every  stroke,  tells. 
And  this  question  of  manner — of  the  particu¬ 
lar  manner  adapted  to  each  scene — brings 
one  to  another  point  at  which  the  novelist’s 
vigilance  must  never  flag.  As  every  tale  con¬ 
tains  its  own  dimension,  so  it  implies  its  own 
manner,  the  particular  shade  of  style  most 
fitted  to  convey  its  full  meaning. 

Most  novelists  who  have  a  certain  number 
of  volumes  to  their  credit,  and  have  sought, 
as  the  subject  required,  to  vary  their  manner, 
have  been  taken  to  task  alike  by  readers  and 
reviewers,  and  either  accused  of  attempting 
to  pass  off  earlier  works  on  a  confiding 
public,  or  pitied  for  a  too-evident  decline  in 
power.  Any  change  disturbs  the  intellectual 
indolence  of  the  average  reader;  and  nothing, 
for  instance,  has  done  more  to  deprive  Ste¬ 
venson  of  his  proper  rank  among  English 
novelists  than  his  deplorable  habit  of  not 
conceiving  a  boy’s  tale  in  the  same  spirit  as 
a  romantic  novel  or  a  burlesque  detective 
story,  of  not  even  confining  himself  to  fic¬ 
tion,  but  attempting  travels,  criticism  and 

n4 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


verse,  and  doing  them  all  so  well  that  there 
must  obviously  be  something  wrong  about 
it.  The  very  critics  who  extol  the  versatility 
of  the  artists  of  the  Renaissance  rebuke  the 
same  quality  in  their  own  contemporaries; 
and  their  eagerness  to  stake  out  each  novel¬ 
ist’s  territory,  and  to  confine  him  to  it  for 
life,  recalls  the  story  of  the  verger  in  an  Eng¬ 
lish  cathedral,  who,  finding  a  stranger  kneel¬ 
ing  in  the  sacred  edifice  between  services, 
tapped  him  on  the  shoulder  with  the  indul¬ 
gent  admonition:  “Sorry,  sir,  but  we  can’t 
have  any  praying  here  at  this  hour.’’ 

This  habit  of  the  reader  of  wanting  each 
author  to  give  only  what  he  has  given  before 
exercises  the  same  subtly  suggestive  influence 
as  all  other  popular  demands.  It  is  one  of  the 
most  insidious  temptations  to  the  young  art¬ 
ist  to  go  on  doing  what  he  already  knows 
how  to  do,  and  knows  he  will  be  praised  for 
doing.  But  the  mere  fact  that  so  many  people 
want  him  to  write  in  a  certain  way  ought  to 
fill  him  with  distrust  of  that  way.  It  would 
be  a  good  thing  for  letters  if  the  perilous  ap- 

115 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

peal  of  popularity  were  oftener  met  in  the 
spirit  of  the  New  England  shop-keeper  who, 
finding  a  certain  penknife  in  great  demand, 
did  not  stock  that  kind  the  following  year 
because,  as  he  said,  too  many  people  came 
bothering  him  about  it. 

VIII 

Goethe  declared  that  only  the  Tree  of  Life 
was  green,  and  that  all  theories  were  gray; 
and  he  also  congratulated  himself  on  never 
“having  thought  about  thinking.”  But  if  he 
never  thought  about  thinking  he  did  think 
a  great  deal  about  his  art,  and  some  of  the 
axioms  he  laid  down  for  its  practice  go  deep¬ 
er  than  those  of  the  professed  philosophers. 

The  art  of  fiction,  as  now  practised,  is  a 
recent  one,  and  the  arts  in  their  earliest 
stages  are  seldom  theorized  on  by  those  en¬ 
gaged  in  creating  them;  but  as  soon  as  they 
begin  to  take  shape  their  practitioners,  or  at 
least  those  of  the  number  who  happen  to 
think  as  well  as  to  create,  perforce  begin  to 
ask  themselves  questions.  Some  may  not 

116 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 


have  Goethe’s  gift  for  formulating  the  an¬ 
swers,  even  to  themselves;  but  these  answers 
will  eventually  be  discoverable  in  an  added 
firmness  of  construction  and  appropriateness 
of  expression.  Other  writers  do  consciously 
lay  down  rules,  and  in  the  search  for  new 
forms  and  more  complex  effects  may  even 
become  the  slaves  of  their  too-fascinating 
theories.  These  are  the  true  pioneers,  whov- 
are  never  destined  to  see  their  own  work  ful¬ 
filled,  but  build  intellectual  houses  for  the 
next  generation  to  live  in. 

Henry  James  was  of  this  small  minority. 
As  he  became  more  and  more  preoccupied 
with  the  architecture  of  the  novel  he  uncon¬ 
sciously  subordinated  all  else  to  his  ever- 
fresh  complexities  of  design,  so  that  his  last 
books  are  magnificent  projects  for  future 
masterpieces  rather  than  living  creations. 
Such  an  admission  may  seem  to  reinforce  the 
argument  against  theorizing  about  one’s  art; 
but  there  are  few  Jameses  and  fewer  Goethes 
in  any  generation,  nor  is  there  ever  much 
danger  in  urging  mankind  to  follow  a  coun- 

117 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

sel  of  perfection.  In  the  case  of  most  novel¬ 
ists,  such  thought  as  they  spare  to  the  art, 
its  range  and  limitations,  far  from  sterilizing 
their  talent  will  stimulate  it  by  giving  them 
a  surer  command  of  their  means,  and  will 
perhaps  temper  their  eagerness  for  popular 
recognition  by  showing  them  that  the  only 
reward  worth  having  is  in  the  quality  of  the 
work  done. 

The  foregoing  considerations  on  the  writ¬ 
ing  of  fiction  may  seem  to  some  dry  and  dog¬ 
matic,  to  others  needlessly  complicated;  still 
others  may  feel  that  in  the  quest  for  an  intel¬ 
ligible  working  theory  the  gist  of  the  matter 
has  been  missed.  No  doubt  there  is  some 
truth  in  all  these  objections;  there  would  be, 
even  had  the  subject  been  far  more  fully  and 
adequately  treated.  It  would  appear  that  in 
the  course  of  such  enquiries  the  gist  of  the 
matter  always  does  escape.  Just  as  one  thinks 
to  cast  a  net  over  it,  a  clap  of  the  wings,  and 
it  is  laughing  down  on  one  from  the  topmost 
bough  of  the  Tree  of  Life! 

Is  all  seeking  vain,  then?  Is  it  useless  to  try 

118 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

for  a  clear  view  of  the  meaning  and  method 
of  one’s  art?  Surely  not.  If  no  art  can  be  quite 
pent-up  in  the  rules  deduced  from  it,  neither 
can  it  fully  realize  itself  unless  those  who 
practise  it  attempt  to  take  its  measure  and 
reason  out  its  processes.  It  is  true  that  the 
gist  of  the  matter  always  escapes,  since  it 
nests,  the  elusive  bright-winged  thing,  in 
that  mysterious  fourth-dimensional  world 
which  is  the  artist’s  inmost  sanctuary  and  on 
the  threshold  of  which  enquiry  perforce  must 
halt;  but  though  that  world  is  inaccessible, 
the  creations  emanating  from  it  reveal  some¬ 
thing  of  its  laws  and  processes. 

Here  another  parenthesis  must  be  opened 
to  point  out  once  more  that,  though  this 
world  the  artist  builds  about  him  in  the  act 
of  creation  reaches  us  and  moves  us  through 
its  resemblance  to  the  life  we  know,  yet  in 
the  artist’s  consciousness  its  essence,  the  core 
of  it,  is  other.  All  worthless  fiction  and  inef¬ 
ficient  reviewing  are  based  on  the  forgetting 
of  this  fact.  To  the  artist  his  world  is  as  sol¬ 
idly  real  as  the  world  of  experience,  or  even 

II9 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

more  so,  but  in  a  way  entirely  different;  it  is 
a  world  to  and  from  which  he  passes  without 
any  sense  of  effort,  but  always  with  an  unin¬ 
terrupted  awareness  of  the  passing.  In  this  world 
are  begotten  and  born  the  creatures  of  his 
imagination,  more  living  to  him  than  his 
own  flesh-and-blood,  but  whom  he  never 
thinks  of  as  living,  in  the  reader’s  simplify¬ 
ing  sense.  Unless  he  keeps  his  hold  on  this 
dual  character  of  their  being,  visionary  to 
him,  and  to  the  reader  real,  he  will  be  the 
slave  of  his  characters  and  not  their  master. 
When  I  say  their  master,  I  do  not  mean  that 
they  are  his  marionettes  and  dangle  from  his 
strings.  Once  projected  by  his  fancy  they  are 
living  beings  who  live  their  own  lives;  but 
their  world  is  the  one  consciously  imposed 
on  them  by  their  creator.  Only  by  means  of 
this  objectivity  of  the  artist  can  his  charac¬ 
ters  live  in  art.  I  have  never  been  much 
moved  by  the  story  of  the  tears  Dickens  is 
supposed  to  have  shed  over  the  death  of 
Little  Nell;  that  is,  if  they  were  real  ma¬ 
terial  tears,  and  not  distilled  from  the  milk 


IiO 


CONSTRUCTING  A  NOVEL 

of  Paradise.  The  business  of  the  artist  is  to 
make  weep,  and  not  to  weep,  to  make  laugh, 
and  not  to  laugh;  and  unless  tears  and  laugh¬ 
ter,  and  flesh-and-blood,  are  transmuted  by 
him  into  the  substance  that  art  works  in, 
they  are  nothing  to  his  purpose,  or  to  ours. 

Yet  to  say  this,  though  it  seems  the  last 
word,  is  not  all.  The  novelist  to  whom  this 
magic  world  is  not  open  has  not  even  touched 
the  borders  of  the  art,  and  to  its  familiars  the 
power  of  expression  may  seem  innate.  But  it 
is  not  so.  The  creatures  of  that  fourth-dimen¬ 
sional  world  are  born  as  helpless  as  the  hu¬ 
man  animal;  and  each  time  the  artist  passes 
from  dream  to  execution  he  will  need  to  find 
the  rules  and  formulas  on  the  threshold. 


I'Ll 


IV 

CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION  IN  THE 

NOVEL 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION  IN  THE 

NOVEL 

I 


DEFINITIONS,  however  difficult  and  in¬ 
adequate,  are  the  necessary  “tools  of 
criticism.”  To  begin,  therefore,  one  may  dis¬ 
tinguish  the  novel  of  situation  from  that  of 
character  and  manners  by  saying  that,  in  the 
first,  the  persons  imagined  by  the  author  al¬ 
most  always  spring  out  of  a  vision  of  the  sit¬ 
uation,  and  are  inevitably  conditioned  by  it, 
whatever  the  genius  of  their  creator;  whereas 
in  the  larger  freer  form,  that  of  character  and 
manners  (or  either  of  the  two),  the  author’s 
characters  are  first  born,  and  then  mysteri¬ 
ously  proceed  to  work  out  their  own  desti¬ 
nies.  Let  it,  at  any  rate,  be  understood  that 
this  rough  distinction  shall  serve  in  the  fol¬ 
lowing  pages  to  mark  the  difference  between 
the  two  ways  of  presenting  the  subject  since 

I2-5 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


most  subjects  lend  themselves  to  being 
treated  from  either  point  of  view. 

It  is  not  easy  to  find,  among  great  novels 
written  in  English,  examples  of  novels  of 
pure  situation,  that  is,  in  which  the  situ¬ 
ation  is  what  the  book  is  remembered  by. 
Perhaps  “The  Scarlet  Letter’’  might  be  cited 
as  one  of  the  few  obvious  examples.  In  “Tess 
of  the  d’Urbervilles,”  which  one  is  tempted 
to  name  also,  the  study  of  character  is  so 
interwoven  with  the  drama  as  to  raise  the 
story — for  all  its  obvious  shortcomings — to 
the  level  of  those  supreme  novels  which  es¬ 
cape  classification.  For  if  one  remembers 
Tess’s  tragedy,  still  more  vividly  does  one 
remember  Tess  herself. 

In  continental  literature  several  famous 
books  at  once  present  themselves  in  the  situ¬ 
ation  group.  One  of  the  earliest,  as  it  is  the 
most  famous,  is  Goethe’s  “Elective  Affini¬ 
ties,’’  where  a  great  and  terrible  drama  in¬ 
volves  characters  of  which  the  creator  has 
not  managed  quite  to  sever  the  marionette 
wires.  Who  indeed  remembers  those  vague 

iz6 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

initialled  creatures,  whom  the  author  him¬ 
self  forgot  to  pull  out  of  their  limbo  in  his 
eagerness  to  mature  and  polish  their  ingeni¬ 
ous  misfortunes? 

Tolstoy’s  “The  Kreutzer  Sonata”  is  an¬ 
other  book  which  lives  only  by  force  of  situ¬ 
ation,  sustained,  of  course,  by  the  profound 
analysis  of  a  universal  passion.  No  one  re¬ 
members  who  the  people  in  “The  Kreutzer 
Sonata”  were,  or  what  they  looked  like,  or 
what  sort  of  a  house  they  lived  in — but  the 
very  roots  of  human  jealousy  are  laid  bare  in 
the  picture  of  the  vague  undifferentiated  hus¬ 
band,  a  puppet  who  comes  to  life  only  in 
function  of  his  one  ferocious  passion.  Balzac 
alone,  perhaps,  managed  to  make  of  his  nov¬ 
els  of  situation — such  as  “Cesar  Birotteau” 
or  “Le  Cure  de  Tours” — such  relentless  and 
penetrating  character  studies  that  their  pro¬ 
tagonists  and  the  difficulties  which  beset 
them  leap  together  to  the  memory  whenever 
the  tales  are  named.  But  this  fusion  of  cate¬ 
gories  is  the  prerogative  of  the  few,  of  those 
who  know  how  to  write  all  kinds  of  novels, 


1Z7 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


and  who  choose,  each  time,  the  way  best 
suited  to  the  subject  in  hand. 

Novels  preeminently  of  character,  and  in 
which  situation,  dramatically  viewed,  is  re¬ 
duced  to  the  minimum,  are  far  easier  to  find. 
Jane  Austen  has  given  the  norm,  the  ideal,  of 
this  type.  Of  her  tales  it  might  almost  be  said 
that  the  reader  sometimes  forgets  what  hap¬ 
pens  to  her  characters  in  his  haunting  remem¬ 
brance  of  their  foibles  and  oddities,  their  lit¬ 
tle  daily  round  of  preoccupations  and  pleas¬ 
ures^  They  are  “speaking”  portraits,  follow¬ 
ing  one  with  their  eyes  in  that  uncannily 
lifelike  way  that  good  portraits  have,  rather 
than  passionate  disordered  people  dragging 
one  impetuously  into  the  tangle  of  their  trag¬ 
edy,  as  one  is  dragged  by  the  characters  of 
Stendhal,  Thackeray  and  Balzac.  Not  that 
Jane  Austen’s  characters  do  not  follow  their 
predestined  orbit.  They  evolve  as  real  people 
do,  but  so  softly,  noiselessly,  that  to  follow 
the  development  of  their  history  is  as  quiet  a 
business  as  watching  the  passage  of  the  sea¬ 
sons.  A  sense  of  her  limitations  as  certain  as 

ix8 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

her  sense  of  her  power  must  have  kept  her — 
unconsciously  or  not — from  trying  to  thrust 
these  little  people  into  great  actions,  and 
made  her  choose  the  quiet  setting  which  en¬ 
abled  her  to  round  out  her  portraits  as  imper¬ 
ceptibly  as  the  sun  models  a  fruit.  “Emma” 
is  perhaps  the  most  perfect  example  in  Eng¬ 
lish  fiction  of  a  novel  in  which  character 
shapes  events  quietly  but  irresistibly,  as  a 
stream  nibbles  away  its  banks. 

Next  to  “Emma”  one  might  place,  in  this 
category,  the  masterpiece  of  a  very  different 
hand:  “The  Egoist”  of  Meredith.  In  this 
book,  though  by  means  so  alien  to  Miss  Aus¬ 
ten’s  delicate  procedure  that  one  balks  at  the 
comparison,  the  fantastic  novelist,  whose  an¬ 
tics  too  often  make  one  forget  his  insight, 
discarding  most  of  his  fatiguing  follies,  gives 
a  rich  and  deliberate  study  of  a  real  human 
being.  But  he  does  not  quite  achieve  Jane 
Austen’s  success.  His  Willoughby  Patterne  is 
typical  before  he  is  individual,  while  every 
character  in  “Emma”  is  both,  and  in  degrees 
always  perfectly  proportioned.  Still,  the  two 

119 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


books  are  preeminent  achievements  in  the 
field  of  pure  character-drawing,  and  one  must 
turn  to  the  greatest  continental  novelists — to 
Balzac  again  (as  always),  to  Stendhal,  Flau¬ 
bert,  Dostoievsky,  Turgenev,  Marcel  Proust, 
and  perhaps  to  the  very  occasional  best  of 
Trollope — to  match  such  searching  and  elab¬ 
orate  studies. 

But  among  the  continental  novelists — 
with  few  exceptions — the  delineation  of 
character  is  inextricably  combined  with  the 
study  of  manners,  as  for  instance  in  the  nov¬ 
els  of  Tolstoy,  of  Balzac  and  of  Flaubert. 
Turgenev,  in  “Dmitri  Rudin,”  gave  the 
somewhat  rare  example  of  a  novel  made  al¬ 
most  entirely  out  of  the  portrayal  of  a  single 
character;  as,  at  the  opposite  extreme,  Sam¬ 
uel  Butler’s  “Way  of  all  Flesh,”  for  all  its 
'brilliant  character-drawing,  is  essentially  the 
portrait  of  a  family  and  a  social  group — one 
of  the  most  distinctive  novels  of  “manners” 
it  is  possible  to  find. 

Such  preliminary  suggestions,  cursory  as 
they  are,  may  help,  better  than  mere  defini- 

130 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

tions,  to  keep  in  mind  the  differing  types  of 
novel  in  which  either  character  or  situation 
weighs  down  the  scales. 

II 

The  novel,  in  the  hands  of  English-speak¬ 
ing  writers,  has  always  tended,  as  it  rose  in 
value,  to  turn  to  pictures  of  character  and 
manners,  however  much  blent  with  dramatic 
episodes,  or  entangled  in  what  used  to  be 
vaguely  known  as  a  plot.  The  plot,  in  the 
traditional  sense  of  the  term,  consisted  in 
some  clash  of  events,  or,  less  often,  of  char¬ 
acter.  But  it  was  an  arbitrarily  imposed  and 
rather  spaciously  built  framework,  inside  of 
which  the  people  concerned  had  room  to  de¬ 
velop  their  idiosyncrasies  and  be  themselves, 
except  in  the  crucial  moments  when  they  be¬ 
came  the  puppets  of  the  plot. 

The  real  novel  of  situation,  a  compacter 
and  above  all  a  more  inevitable  affair,  did 
not,  at  least  on  English  soil,  take  shape  till 
“plot,”  in  the  old-fashioned  sense  of  a  coil 

13 1 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

of  outward  happenings,  was  giving  way  to 
the  discovery  that  real  drama  is  soul-drama. 
The  novel  of  situation,  indeed,  has  never 
really  acclimatized  itself  in  English-speaking 
countries;  whereas  in  France  it  seems  to  have 
grown  naturally  from  the  psychological 
novel  of  the  seventeenth  and  eighteenth  cen¬ 
turies,  wherein  the  conflict  of  characters 
tended  from  the  first  to  simplify  the  drawing 
of  character  and  to  turn  the  protagonists  into 
embodiments  of  a  particular  passion  rather 
than  of  a  particular  person. 

From  this  danger  the  English  novelist  has 
usually  been  guarded  by  an  inexhaustible  in¬ 
terest  in  personality,  and  a  fancy  for  loitering 
by  the  way.  The  plots  of  Scott,  Thackeray, 
Dickens,  George  Eliot  and  their  successors 
are  almost  detachable  at  will,  so  arbitrarily 
are  they  imposed  on  the  novel  of  character 
which  was  slowly  but  steadily  developing 
within  their  lax  support,  and  which  became, 
as  the  nineteenth  century  advanced,  the  typ¬ 
ical  form  of  English  fiction. 

The  novel  of  situation  is  a  different  matter. 


13Z 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

The  situation,  instead  of  being  imposed  from 
the  outside,  is  the  kernel  of  the  tale  and  its 
only  reason  for  being.  It  seizes  the  characters 
in  its  steely  grip,  and  jiu-jitsus  them  into  the 
required  attitude  with  a  relentlessness  against 
which  only  genius  can  prevail.  In  every  form 
of  novel  it  is  noticeable  that  the  central  char¬ 
acters  tend  to  be  the  least  real.  This  seems  to 
be  partly  explained  by  the  fact  that  these 
characters,  survivors  of  the  old  “hero”  and 
“heroine,”  whose  business  it  was  not  to  be 
real  but  to  be  sublime,  are  still,  though  often 
without  the  author’s  being  aware  of  it,  the 
standard-bearers  of  his  convictions  or  the  ex¬ 
pression  of  his  secret  inclinations.  They  are 
his  in  the  sense  of  tending  to  do  and  say  what 
he  would  do,  or  imagines  he  would  do,  in 
given  circumstances,  and  being  mere  projec¬ 
tions  of  his  own  personality  they  lack  the 
substance  and  relief  of  the  minor  characters, 
whom  he  views  coolly  and  objectively,  in  all 
their  human  weakness  and  inconsequence. 
But  there  remains  another  reason,  less  often 
recognized,  for  the  unreality  of  novel  “he- 

*33 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


roes”  and  “heroines,”  a  reason  especially  ap¬ 
plicable  to  the  leading  figures  in  the  novel  of 
situation.  It  is  that  the  story  is  about  them,  and 
forces  them  into  the  shape  which  its  events 
impose,  while  the  subordinate  characters, 
moving  at  ease  in  the  interstices  of  the  tale, 
and  free  to  go  about  their  business  in  the  il¬ 
logical  human  fashion,  remain  real  to  writer 
and  readers. 

This  fact,  exemplified  in  all  novels,  be¬ 
comes  most  vivid  in  the  novel  of  situation, 
where  the  characters  tend  to  turn  into  Lao- 
coons,  and  die  in  the  merciless  coils  of  their 
adventure.  This  is  the  extreme  point  of  the 
difference  between  the  novel  of  situation  and 
of  character,  and  the  cause  of  the  common 
habit  of  regarding  them  as  alternative  meth¬ 
ods  of  fiction. 


Ill 

The  thoughtful  critic  who  would  be  rid  of 
the  cheap  formulas  of  fiction-reviewing,  and 
reach  some  clearer  and  deeper  expression  of 
the  sense  and  limitations  of  the  art,  is  sure  to 

*34 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

resent  the  glib  definition  of  the  novel  of  situ¬ 
ation  and  the  novel  of  character  (or  manners) 
as  necessarily  antithetical  and  mutually  ex¬ 
clusive.  The  thoughtful  critic  will  be  right; 
and  the  thoughtful  novelist  will  share  his 
view.  What  sense  is  there  in  such  arbitrary 
divisions,  such  opposings  of  one  manner  to 
another,  when  almost  all  the  greatest  novels 
are  there,  in  their  versatility  and  their  abun¬ 
dance,  to  show  the  glorious  possibility  of 
welding  both  types  of  fiction  into  a  single 
masterpiece  ? 

In  what  category,  for  instance,  should 
“Anna  Karenina”  be  placed?  Undoubtedly  in 
that  of  novels  of  character  and  manners.  Yet 
if  one  sums  up  the  tale  in  its  rapidity  and  its 
vehemence,  what  situation  did  Dumas  Fils 
ever  devise  for  his  theatre  “of  situation”  half 
so  poignant  or  so  dramatic  as  that  which 
Tolstoy  manages  to  keep  conspicuously 
afloat  on  the  wide  tossing  expanse  of  the 
Russian  social  scene?  In  “Vanity  Fair,” 
again,  so  preeminently  a  novel  of  manners,  a 
novel  of  character,  with  what  dramatic  in- 

*35 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


tensity  the  situation  between  Becky,  Raw- 
don  and  Lord  Steyne  stands  out  from  the  rich 
populous  pages,  and  gathers  up  into  itself  all 
their  diffused  significance! 

The  answer  is  evident:  above  a  certain 
height  of  creative  capacity  the  different 
methods,  the  seemingly  conflicting  points  of 
view,  are  merged  in  the  artist’s  comprehen¬ 
sive  vision,  and  the  situations  inherent  in  his 
subject  detach  themselves  in  strong  relief 
from  the  fullest  background  without  disturb¬ 
ing  the  general  composition. 

But  though  this  is  true,  it  is  true  only  of 
the  greatest  novelists — those  who,  as  Mat¬ 
thew  Arnold  said  of  Shakespeare,  do  not 
abide  our  question  but  are  free.  In  them,  vast 
vision  is  united  to  equivalent  powers  of  co¬ 
ordination;  but  more  often  the  novelist  who 
has  the  creative  vision  lacks  the  capacity  for 
co-ordinating  and  rendering  his  subject,  or  at 
least  is  unable,  in  the  same  creation,  to  give 
an  equal  part  to  the  development  of  charac¬ 
ter  and  to  the  clash  of  situation.  Owing  to 
the  lack  of  that  supreme  equipment  which 

136 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

always  rises  above  classification  most  of  the 
novelists  have  tended  to  let  their  work 
fall  into  one  of  the  two  categories  of  situa¬ 
tion  or  character,  thus  fortifying  the  theory 
of  the  superficial  critics  that  life  in  fiction 
must  be  presented  either  as  conflict  or  as 
character. 

The  so-called  novel  of  character,  even  in 
less  than  the  most  powerful  hands,  does  not, 
of  course,  preclude  situation  in  the  sense  of  a 
,  dramatdc  clash.  But  the  novelist  develops  his 
tale  through  a  succession  of  episodes,  all  in 
some  way  illustrative  of  the  manners  or  the 
characters  out  of  which  the  situation  is  even¬ 
tually  to  spring;  he  lingers  on  the  way,  is  not 
afraid  of  by-paths,  and  enriches  his  scene 
with  subordinate  pictures,  as  the  mediaeval 
miniaturist  encloses  his  chief  subjects  in  a 
border  of  beautiful  ornament  and  delicate 
vignettes;  whereas  the  novel  of  situation  is, 
by  definition,  one  in  which  the  problem  to 
be  worked  out  in  a  particular  human  con¬ 
science,  or  the  clash  between  conflicting 
wills,  is  the  novelist’s  chief  if  not  his  only 

I37 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


theme,  and  everything  not  directly  illumi¬ 
native  of  it  must  be  left  out  as  irrelevant. 
This  does  not  mean  that  in  the  latter  type 
of  tale — as,  for  instance,  in  “Tess  of  the 
d’Urbervilles” — the  episode,  the  touch  of 
colour  or  character,  is  forbidden.  The  mod¬ 
ern  novelist  of  situation  does  not  seem  likely 
to  return  to  the  monochrome  starkness  of 
“Adolphe”  or  “La  Princesse  de  Cleves.”  He 
uses  every  scrap  of  colour,  every  picturesque 
by-product  of  his  subject  which  that  sub¬ 
ject  yields;  but  he  avoids  adding  to  it  a 
single  touch,  however  decoratively  tempt¬ 
ing,  which  is  not  part  of  the  design. 

If  the  two  methods  are  thus  contrasted, 
the  novel  of  character  and  manners  may  seem 
superior  in  richness,  variety  and  play  of  light 
and  shade.  This  does  not  prove  that  it  is  nec¬ 
essarily  capable  of  a  greater  total  effect  than 
the  other;  yet  so  far  the  greatest  novels  have 
undoubtedly  dealt  with  character  and  man¬ 
ners  rather  than  with  mere  situation.  The  in¬ 
ference  is  indeed  almost  irresistible  that  the 
farther  the  novel  is  removed  in  treatment 

138 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

from  theatrical  modes  of  expression,  the 
more  nearly  it  attains  its  purpose  as  a  freer 
art,  appealing  to  those  more  subtle  imagina¬ 
tive  requirements  which  the  stage  can  never 
completely  satisfy. 

When  the  novelist  has  been  possessed  by  a 
situation,  and  sees  his  characters  hurrying  to 
its  culmination,  he  must  have  unusual  keen¬ 
ness  of  vision  and  sureness  of  hand  to  fix  their 
lineaments  and  detain  them  on  their  way 
long  enough  for  the  reader  to  recognize  them 
as  real  human  beings.  In  the  novel  of  pure 
situation  it  is  doubtful  if  this  has  ever  been 
done  with  more  art  than  in  “The  Wrong 
Box,’’  where  Stevenson  launched  on  his  roar¬ 
ing  torrent  of  farce  a  group  of  real  people ,  alive 
and  individual,  who  keep  their  reality  and 
individuality  till  the  end.  The  tears  of  laugh¬ 
ter  that  the  book  provokes  generally  blind 
the  reader  to  its  subtle  character-drawing; 
but,  save  for  the  people  in  “Gil  Bias,”  and 
the  memorable  figures  of  Chicot  and  Goren- 
flot  in  the  Dumas  cycle  headed  by  “La  Dame 
de  Monsoreau,”  it  would  be  hard,  in  any 

I39 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

tale  of  action,  to  find  characters  as  vivid  and 
individual  as  those  which  roilick  through 
this  glorious  farce. 

The  tendency  of  the  situation  to  take  hold 
of  the  novelist’s  imagination,  and  to  impose 
its  own  tempo  on  his  tale,  can  be  resisted  only 
by  richness  and  solidity  of  temperament.  The 
writer  must  have  a  range  wide  enough  to  in¬ 
clude,  within  the  march  of  unalterable  law, 
all  the  inconsequences  of  human  desire,  am¬ 
bition,  cruelty,  weakness  and  sublimity.  He 
must,  above  all,  bear  in  mind  at  each  step 
that  his  business  is  not  to  ask  what  the  situ¬ 
ation  would  be  likely  to  make  of  his  charac¬ 
ters,  but  what  his  characters,  being  what 
they  are,  would  make  of  the  situation.  This 
question,  which  is  the  tuning-fork  of  truth, 
never  needs  to  be  more  insistently  applied 
than  in  writing  the  dialogue  which  usually 
marks  the  culminating  scenes  in  fiction.  The 
moment  the  novelist  finds  that  his  characters 
are  talking  not  as  they  naturally  would,  but 
as  the  situation  requires,  are  visibly  lending 
him  a  helping  hand  in  the  more  rapid  eluci- 

140 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

dation  of  his  drama,  the  moment  he  hears 
them  saying  anything  which  the  stress  of 
their  predicament  would  not  naturally  bring 
to  their  lips,  his  effect  has  been  produced  at 
the  expense  of  reality,  and  he  will  find  them 
turning  to  sawdust  on  his  hands. 

Some  novelists,  conscious  of  the  danger, 
and  not  sufficiently  skilled  to  meet  it,  have 
tried  to  turn  it  by  interlarding  these  crucial 
dialogues  with  irrelevant  small-talk,  in  the 
hope  of  thus  producing  a  greater  air  of  re¬ 
ality.  But  this  is  to  fall  again  into  the  trap 
of  what  Balzac  called  “a  reality  in  nature 
which  is  not  one  in  art.”  The  object  of  dia¬ 
logue  is  to  gather  up  the  loose  strands  of  pas¬ 
sion  and  emotion  running  through  the  tale; 
and  the  attempt  to  entangle  these  threads  in 
desultory  chatter  about  the  weather  or  the 
village  pump  proves  only  that  the  narrator 
has  not  known  how  to  do  the  necessary  work 
of  selection.  All  the  novelist’s  art  is  brought 
into  play  by  such  tests.  His  characters  must 
talk  as  they  would  in  reality,  and  yet  every¬ 
thing  not  relevant  to  his  tale  must  be  elimi- 

I4I 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

nated.  The  secret  of  success  lies  in  his  instinct 
of  selection. 

These  difficulties  are  not  a  reason  for  con¬ 
demning  the  novel  of  situation  as  an  inferior 
or  at  least  as  a  not-worth-while  form  of  the 
art.  Inferior  to  the  larger  form,  the  novel  of 
character  and  manners,  it  probably  is,  if  only 
in  the  matter  of  scale;  but  certainly  also 
worth-while,  since  it  is  the  natural  vehicle 
of  certain  creative  minds.  As  long  as  there 
are  novelists  whose  inventive  faculty  pre¬ 
sents  them  first  with  the  form,  and  only  after¬ 
ward  with  the  substance,  of  the  tales  they 
want  to  tell,  the  novel  of  situation  will  fill  a 
purpose.  But  it  is  precisely  this  type  of  mind 
which  needs  to  be  warned  against  the  dan¬ 
gers  of  the  form.  When  the  problem  comes  to 
the  novelist  before  he  sees  the  characters  en¬ 
gaged  in  it,  he  must  be  all  the  more  deliber¬ 
ate  in  dealing  with  it,  must  let  it  lie  in  his 
mind  till  it  brings  forth  of  itself  the  kind  of 
people  who  would  naturally  be  involved  in 
that  particular  plight.  The  novelist’s  perma¬ 
nent  problem  is  that  of  making  his  people  at 

I42- 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

once  typical  and  individual,  universal  and 
particular,  and  in  adopting  the  form  of  the 
novel  of  situation  he  perpetually  runs  the 
risk  of  upsetting  that  nice  balance  of  attri¬ 
butes  unless  he  persists  in  thinking  of  his 
human  beings  first,  and  of  their  predicament 
only  as  the  outcome  of  what  they  are. 

IV 

The  predicament  —  the  situation  —  must 
still  be  borne  in  mind  if  the  novelist  ap¬ 
proaches  his  task  in  another  way,  and  sees 
his  tale  as  situation  illustrating  character  in¬ 
stead  of  the  reverse. 

Even  the  novel  of  character  and  manners 
can  never  be  without  situation,  that  is,  with¬ 
out  some  sort  of  climax  caused  by  the  con¬ 
tending  forces  engaged.  The  conflict,  the 
shock  of  forces,  is  latent  in  every  attempt  to 
detach  a  fragment  of  human  experience  and 
transpose  it  in  terms  of  art,  that  is,  of  com¬ 
pletion. 

The  seeming  alternative  is  to  fall  back 

143 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

on  the  “stream  of  consciousness” — which  is 
simply  the  “slice-of-life”  of  the  ’eighties  re¬ 
named — but  that  method,  as  has  already 
been  pointed  out,  contains  its  own  condem¬ 
nation,  since  every  attempt  to  employ  it  of 
necessity  involves  selection,  and  selection  in 
the  long  run  must  eventually  lead  to  the 
transposition,  the  “stylization,”  of  the  sub¬ 
ject. 

Let  it  be  assumed,  then,  that  a  predica¬ 
ment  there  must  be,  whether  worked  out  in 
one  soul,  or  created  by  the  shock  of  opposing 
purposes.  The  larger  the  canvas  of  the  novel 
— supposing  the  novelist’s  powers  to  be  in 
scale  with  his  theme — the  larger  will  be  the 
scale  of  the  predicament.  In  the  great  novel 
of  manners  in  which  Balzac,  Thackeray  and 
Tolstoy  were  preeminent,  the  conflict  en¬ 
gages  not  only  individuals  but  social  groups, 
and  the  individual  plight  is  usually  the  prod¬ 
uct — one  of  the  many  products — of  the  social 
conflict.  There  is  a  sense  in  which  situation 
is  the  core  of  every  tale,  and  as  truly  present 
in  the  quiet  pages  of  “Eugenie  Grandet”  or 

I44 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 

Le  Lys  dans  la  Vallee”  as  in  the  tense  trag¬ 
edy  of  “The  Return  of  the  Native,”  the  epic 
clash  of  “War  and  Peace”  or  the  dense  social 
turmoil  of  “Vanity  Fair.” 

But  the  main  advantage  of  the  novelist  to 
whom  his  subject  first  presents  itself  in  terms 
of  character,  either  individual  or  social,  is 
that-  he  can  quietly  watch  his  people  or  his 
group  going  about  their  business,  and  let  the 
form  of  his  tale  grow  out  of  what  they  are, 
out  of  their  idiosyncrasies,  their  humours 
and  their  prejudices,  instead  of  fitting  a  situa¬ 
tion  onto  them  before  he  really  knows  them, 
either  personally  or  collectively. 

It  is  manifest  that  every  method  of  fiction 
has  its  dangers,  and  that  the  study  of  char¬ 
acter  pursued  to  excess  may  tend  to  submerge 
the  action  necessary  to  illustrate  that  char¬ 
acter.  In  the  inevitable  reaction  against  the 
arbitrary  “plot”  many  novelists  have  gone 
too  far  in  the  other  direction,  either  swamp¬ 
ing  themselves  in  the  tedious  “stream  of  con¬ 
sciousness,”  or  else — another  frequent  error 
— giving  an  exaggerated  importance  to  triv- 

M5 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


ial  incidents  when  the  tale  is  concerned  with 
trivial  lives.  There  is  a  sense  in  which  noth¬ 
ing  which  receives  the  touch  of  art  is  trivial; 
but  to  rise  to  this  height  the  incident,  insig¬ 
nificant  in  itself,  must  illustrate  some  general 
law,  and  turn  on  some  deep  movement  of  the 
soul.  If  the  novelist  wants  to  hang  his  drama 
on  a  button,  let  it  at  least  be  one  of  Lear’s. 

All  things  hold  together  in  the  practice  of 
any  art,  and  character  and  manners,  and  the 
climaxes  springing  out  of  them,  cannot,  in 
the  art  of  fiction,  be  dealt  with  separately 
without  diminution  to  the  subject.  It  is  a 
matter  for  the  novelist’s  genius  to  combine 
all  these  ingredients  in  their  due  proportion; 
and  then  we  shall  have  “Emma”  or  “The 
Egoist”  if  character  is  to  be  given  the  first 
place,  “Le  Pere  Goriot”  or  “Madame  Bova¬ 
ry”  if  drama  is  to  be  blent  with  it,  and  “War 
and  Peace,”  “Vanity  Fair,”  “L’Education 
Sentimentale”  if  all  the  points  of  view  and 
all  the  methods  are  to  be  harmonized  in  the 
achievement  of  a  great  picture  wherein  the 
individual,  the  group  and  their  social  back- 

146 


CHARACTER  AND  SITUATION 


ground  have  each  a  perfectly  apportioned 
share  in  the  composition. 

“Four  great  walls  in  the  New  Jerusalem 
Meted  on  each  side  by  the  angel’s  reed — ” 

Yes;  but  to  cover  such  spaces  adequately 
happens  even  to  the  greatest  artists  only  once 
or  twice  in  their  career. 


I47 


I 


V 

MARCEL  PROUST 


V 


MARCEL  PROUST 
I 


HE  difficulty  of  speaking  at  all  ade- 


X  quately  of  Marcel  Proust  has  grown 
with  the  number  of  volumes  of  “A  la  Re¬ 
cherche  du  Temps  Perdu,”  and  also  with  the 
lapse  of  time  since  the  first  were  published. 
The  cycle,  moreover,  is  still  incomplete 
(though  we  now  know  that  its  conclusion 
will  appear);  and  the  critic  who  ventures  to 
see  a  definite  intention  in  the  dense  and 
branching  pages  already  published  does  so 
at  his  peril,  and  on  the  faith  of  that  sense  of 
inner  continuity  communicated  from  the  out¬ 
set  by  all  the  greatest  novels,  from  the  ram¬ 
bling  and  extravagant  ‘‘Gil  Bias”  to  the 
compact  and  thrifty  ‘‘Emma.” 

The  death  of  Marcel  Proust,  premature 
though  it  was,  yet  did  not  happen  till  his 
dying  hand  had  put  the  last  words  to  the 
last  page  of  his  vast  narrative.  Last  words; 


J51 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


but  unhappily  not  last  touches.  The  appear¬ 
ance  of  “La  Prisonniere”  confirms  the  report 
circulated  after  his  death  that  the  volumes 
then  unpublished  were  left  without  those 
innumerable  enriching  strokes  which  gave 
their  golden  ripeness  to  the  others.  But, 
whether  or  not  these  final  chapters,  written 
in  illness,  and  clouded  (as  one  perceives  from 
“La  Prisonniere”)  by  physical  weakness 
and  deep  mental  distress,  fulfil  the  promise 
of  that  unity  to  which  all  the  strands  of  the 
elaborate  fabric  seem  to  tend,  the  first  vol¬ 
umes  (by  which  the  author’s  greatness  will 
perhaps  finally  be  measured)  make  it  clear 
that  he  himself  felt  the  need  of  such  unity, 
and  would  have  submitted  his  restless  genius 
to  it  if  illness  had  not  disintegrated  his  pow¬ 
ers.  On  this  inference  the  critic  will  probably 
have  to  rest;  and  it  is  enough  to  justify  treat¬ 
ing  the  fragment  before  us  as  already  poten¬ 
tially  a  whole. 

More  serious  for  the  critic  is  the  obstacle 
caused  by  the  long  lapse  of  years  since  “Du 
Cote  de  chez  Swann”  led  off  the  astounding 

I52- 


MARCEL  PROUST 


procession.  Since  then  the  conception  of  the 
art  of  fiction,  as  it  had  taken  shape  during 
the  previous  half-century,  has  been  unsettled 
by  a  series  of  experiments,  each  one  too 
promptly  heralded  as  the  final  and  only  way 
of  novel-writing.  The  critics  who  have 
handed  down  these  successive  ultimata  have 
apparently  decided  that  no  interest,  even 
archteological,  attaches  any  longer  to  the 
standards  and  the  vocabulary  of  their  prede¬ 
cessors;  and  this  wholesale  rejection  of  past 
principles  has  led  to  a  confusion  in  terms 
which  makes  communication  difficult  and 
conclusions  ambiguous. 

An  unexpected  result  of  the  contradictory 
clamour  has  been  to  transfer  Proust,  who  ten 
or  twelve  years  ago  seemed  to  many  an  al¬ 
most  unintelligible  innovator,  back  to  his 
rightful  place  in  the  great  line  of  classic  tra¬ 
dition.  If,  therefore,  the  attempt  to  form  a 
judgment  of  his  art  has  become  doubly  ardu¬ 
ous  it  has  also  become  doubly  interesting; 
for  Proust,  almost  alone  of  his  kind,  is  appar¬ 
ently  still  regarded  as  a  great  novelist  by  the 

I53 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


innovators,  and  yet  is  already  far  enough  off 
to  make  it  clear  that  he  was  himself  that  far 
more  substantial  thing  in  the  world  of  art,  a 
renovator. 

With  a  general  knowledge  of  letters  ex¬ 
tending  far  beyond  the  usual  limits  of  French 
culture  he  combined  a  vision  peculiarly  his 
own;  and  he  was  thus  exceptionally  fitted  to 
take  the  next  step  forward  in  a  developing 
art  without  disowning  its  past,  or  wasting 
the  inherited  wealth  of  experience.  It  is  as 
much  the  lack  of  general  culture  as  of  orig¬ 
inal  vision  which  makes  so  many  of  the 
younger  novelists,  in  Europe  as  in  America, 
attach  undue  importance  to  trifling  innova¬ 
tions.  Original  vision  is  never  much  afraid 
of  using  accepted  forms;  and  only  the  culti¬ 
vated  intelligence  escapes  the  danger  of  re¬ 
garding  as  intrinsically  new  what  may  be  a 
mere  superficial  change,  or  the  reversion  to 
a  discarded  trick  of  technique. 

The  more  one  reads  of  Proust  the  more  one 
sees  that  his  strength  is  the  strength  of  tra¬ 
dition.  All  his  newest  and  most  arresting  ef- 

I54 


MARCEL  PROUST 

fects  have  been  arrived  at  through  the  old 
way  of  selection  and  design.  In  the  construc¬ 
tion  of  these  vast,  leisurely,  and  purposeful 
compositions  nothing  is  really  wasted,  or 
brought  in  at  random.  If  at  first  Proust 
seemed  so  revolutionary  it  was  partly  be¬ 
cause  of  his  desultory  manner  and  parenthet¬ 
ical  syntax,  and  chiefly  because  of  the  shift¬ 
ing  of  emphasis  resulting  from  his  extremely 
personal  sense  of  values.  The  points  on  which 
Proust  lays  the  greatest  stress  are  often  those 
inmost  tremors,  waverings,  and  contradic¬ 
tions  which  the  conventions  of  fiction  have 
hitherto  subordinated  to  more  generalized 
truths  and  more  rapid  effects.  Proust  bends 
over  them  with  unwearied  attention.  No  one 
else  has  carried  as  far  the  analysis  of  half¬ 
conscious  states  of  mind,  obscure  associa¬ 
tions  of  thought  and  gelatinous  fluctuations 
of  mood;  but  long  and  closely  as  he  dwells 
on  them  he  never  loses  himself  in  the  subma¬ 
rine  jungle  in  which  his  lantern  gropes. 
Though  he  arrives  at  his  object  in  so  round¬ 
about  a  way,  that  object  is  always  to  report 

I55 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

the  conscious,  purposive  conduct  of  his  char¬ 
acters.  In  this  respect  he  is  distinctly  to  be 
classed  among  those  whom  the  jargon  of  re¬ 
cent  philosophy  has  labelled  “behaviour¬ 
ists”  because  they  believe  that  the  proper 
study  of  mankind  is  man’s  conscious  and 
purposive  behaviour  rather  than  its  dim  un¬ 
fathomable  sources.  Proust  is  in  truth  the 
aware  and  eager  inheritor  of  two  great  for¬ 
mulas:  that  of  Racine  in  his  psychology, 
that  of  Saint-Simon  in  its  anecdotic  and  dis¬ 
cursive  illustration.  In  both  respects  he  is 
deliberately  traditional. 

II 

Fashions  in  the  arts  come  and  go,  and  it 
is  of  little  interest  to  try  to  analyze  the  work 
of  any  artist  who  does  not  give  one  the  sense 
of  being  in  some  sort  above  them.  In  the  art 
of  one’s  contemporaries  it  is  not  always  easy 
to  say  what  produces  that  sense;  and  perhaps 
the  best  way  of  trying  to  find  out  is  to  apply 
a  familiar  touchstone. 

Out  of  all  the  flux  of  judgments  and  theo- 

156 


MARCEL  PROUST 


ries  which  have  darkened  counsel  in  respect 
of  novel-writing,  one  stable  fact  seems  al¬ 
ways  to  emerge;  the  quality  the  greatest 
novelists  have  always  had  in  common  is  that 
of  making  their  people  live.  To  ask  why  this 
matters  more  than  anything  else  would  lead 
one  into  the  obscurest  mazes  of  aesthetic;  but 
the  fact  is  generally  enough  admitted  to 
serve  as  a  ground  for  discussion.  Not  all  the 
other  graces  and  virtues  combined  seem  to 
have  in  them  that  aseptic  magic.  Vivacity, 
virtuosity,  an  abundance  of  episodes,  skill  in 
presenting  them:  what  power  of  survival 
have  these,  compared  with  the  sight  of  the 
doddering  Baron  Hulot  climbing  his  stairs  to 
a  senile  tryst,  to  Beatrix  Esmond  descending 
hers  in  silver  clocks  and  red-heeled  shoes  ? 

M.  Jusserand,  in  his  “Literary  History  of 
the  English  People,”  says  of  Shakespeare 
that  he  was  un  grand  distributee  de  vie ,  a 
great  life-giver;  it  is  the  very  epithet  one 
needs  for  Proust.  His  gallery  of  living  figures 
is  immense,  almost  past  reckoning;  so  far,  in 
that  ever-growing  throng,  it  is  only  the  fail- 

I57 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

ures  that  one  can  count.  And  Proust’s  power 
of  evocation  extends  from  the  background 
and  middle  distance  (where  some  mysterious 
law  of  optics  seems  to  make  it  relatively 
easy  for  the  novelist  to  animate  his  puppets) 
to  that  searching  “centre  front”  where  his 
principal  characters,  so  scrutinized,  ex¬ 
plained,  re-explained,  pulled  about,  taken 
apart  and  put  together  again,  resist  in  their 
tough  vitality  his  perpetual  nervous  manipu¬ 
lation,  and  keep  carelessly  on  their  predes¬ 
tined  way.  Swann  himself,  subjected  to  so 
merciless  an  examination,  Swann,  as  to 
whose  haberdashery,  hats,  boots,  gloves, 
taste  in  pictures,  books,  and  women  we  are 
informed  with  an  impartial  abundance,  is 
never  more  alive  than  when,  in  that  terrible 
scene  of  the  fifth  volume,  he  quietly  tells  the 
Duchesse  de  Guermantes  that  he  cannot 
promise  to  go  to  Italy  the  following  spring 
with  her  and  the  Duke  because  he  happens 
to  be  dying.  Equally  vivid  are  the  invalid 
aunt  in  the  pale  twilight  of  her  provincial 
bedroom,  and  the  servant  Frangoise  who 

158 


MARCEL  PROUST 

waits  on  her,  and  at  her  death  passes  as  a 
matter  of  course  to  the  rest  of  the  family — 
amazing  composite  picture  of  all  the  faults 
and  virtues  of  the  old-fashioned  French  maid¬ 
servant.  And  then  there  is  the  hero’s  grand¬ 
mother,  who  fills  the  pages  with  a  subdued 
yet  tingling  vitality  from  the  moment  when 
we  first  see  her  dashing  out  for  one  of  her 
lonely  walks  in  the  rain  to  that  other  day, 
far  on  in  the  tale,  when,  fiercely  and  dog¬ 
gedly  nursed  by  Frangoise,  she  dies  in  an 
equal  loneliness;  there  is  the  Marquis  de 
Saint-Loup,  impetuous,  selfish,  and  senti¬ 
mental,  with  his  artless  veneration  for  the 
latest  thing  in  “culture,”  his  snobbishness 
in  the  Bohemian  world,  his  simplicity  and 
good-breeding  in  his  own;  the  Jewish  ac¬ 
tress,  his  mistress,  who  despises  him  because 
he  is  a  mere  “man  of  the  world”  and  not 
one  of  her  own  crew  of  aesthetic  charlatans; 
the  great,  the  abject,  the  abominable  and 
magnificent  Monsieur  de  Charlus,  and  the 
shy  scornful  Duchesse  de  Guermantes,  with 
her  quickness  of  wit  and  obtuseness  of  heart, 

159 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


her  consuming  worldliness  and  her  sincere 
belief  that  nothing  bores  her  as  much  as  the 
world — the  poor  Duchess,  mistress  of  all 
the  social  arts,  yet  utterly  nonplussed,  and 
furious,  because  Swann’s  announcement  that 
he  is  dying  is  made  as  she  is  getting  into 
her  carriage  to  go  to  a  big  dinner,  and 
nothing  in  her  code  teaches  her  how  to 
behave  to  a  friend  tactless  enough  to  blurt 
out  such  news  at  such  a  moment!  Ah, 
how  they  all  live,  and  abound  each  in  his  or 
her  own  sense — and  how,  each  time  they 
reappear  (sometimes  after  disconcertingly 
long  eclipses),  they  take  up  their  individual 
rhythm  as  unerringly  as  the  performers  in 
some  great  orchestra! 

The  sense  that,  through  all  his  desultori¬ 
ness,  Proust  always  knows  whither  his  peo¬ 
ple  are  tending,  and  which  of  their  words, 
gestures  and  thoughts  are  worth  recording; 
his  ease  in  threading  his  way  through  their 
crowded  ranks,  fills  the  reader,  from  the  first, 
with  the  feeling  of  security  which  only  the 
great  artists  inspire.  Certain  novels,  begin- 

160 


MARCEL  PROUST 


ning  very  quietly — carelessly,  almost — yet 
convey  on  the  opening  page  the  same  feeling 
of  impending  fatality  as  the  first  bars  of  the 
Fifth  Symphony.  Destiny  is  knocking  at  the 
gate.  The  next  knock  may  not  come  for  a 
long  time;  but  the  reader  knows  that  it  will 
come,  as  surely  as  Tolstoy’s  Ivan  Ilyitch 
knew  that  the  mysterious  little  intermittent 
pain  which  used  to  disappear  for  days  would 
come  back  oftener  and  more  insistently  till 
it  destroyed  him. 

There  are  many  ways  of  conveying  this 
sense  of  the  footfall  of  Destiny;  and  nothing 
shows  the  quality  of  the  novelist’s  imagina¬ 
tion  more  clearly  than  the  incidents  he  sin¬ 
gles  out  to  illuminate  the  course  of  events 
and  the  inner  workings  of  his  people’s  souls. 
When  Imogen,  setting  forth  to  meet  her 
adored  Posthumus  at  Milford  Haven,  asks 
his  servant  Pisanio  (who  has  been  ordered 
by  the  jealous  Posthumus  to  murder  her  on 
the  way):  “How  many  score  of  miles  may 
we  well  ride  ’twixt  hour  and  hour?’’  and, 
getting  the  man’s  anguished  answer:  “One 

161 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


score  ’twixt  sun  and  sun,  Madam,  ’s  enough 
for  you,  and  too  much  too,  ’  ’  exclaims :  "Why, 
one  that  rode  to' s  execution ,  man ,  could  never  go 
so  slow — ”  or  when  Gretchen,  opening  her 
candid  soul  to  Faust,  tells  him  how  she 
mothered  her  little  sister  from  the  cradle — 
“My  mother  was  so  ill  ...  I  brought  the 
poor  little  creature  up  on  milk  and  water 
.  .  .  the  cradle  stood  by  my  bed,  she  could 
hardly  stir  without  my  waking.  I  had  to 
feed  her,  take  her  into  the  bed  with  me,  walk 
the  floor  with  her  all  night,  and  be  early  the 
next  morning  at  the  wash-tub;  but  I  loved 
her  so  that  I  was  glad  to  do  it” — when  the 
swift  touch  of  genius  darts  such  rays  on  the 
path  to  come,  one  is  almost  tempted  to  ex¬ 
claim:  There  is  nothing  in  mere  “situation” 
— the  whole  of  the  novelist’s  art  lies  in  the 
particular  way  in  which  he  brings  the  given 
conjuncture  home  to  the  imagination! 

Proust  had  an  incredible  sureness  of  touch 
in  shedding  this  prophetic  ray  on  his  char¬ 
acters.  Again  and  again  he  finds  the  poign¬ 
ant  word,  the  significant  gesture,  as  when, 

i6z 


MARCEL  PROUST 

in  that  matchless  first  chapter  (“Combray”) 
of  “Du  Cote  de  chez  Swann”  he  depicts  the 
suspense  of  the  lonely  little  boy  (the  narra- 
rator)  who,  having  been  hurried  off  to  bed 
without  a  goodnight  kiss  because  M.  Swann 
is  coming  to  dine,  persuades  the  reluctant 
Frangoise  to  carry  to  his  mother  a  little  note 
in  which  he  implores  her  to  come  up  and  see 
him  “about  something  very  important. ”t So 
far,  the  episode  is  like  many  in  which  the 
modern  novelist  has  analyzed — especially 
since  “Sinister  Street” — the  inarticulate 
tragedies  of  childhood.  But  for  Proust  such 
an  episode,  in  addition  to  its  own  signifi¬ 
cance,  has  a  deeper  illuminative  use. 

“I  thought  to  myself,”  he  goes  on,  “how 
Swann  would  have  laughed  at  my  anguish 
if  he  had  read  my  letter,  and  guessed  its  real 
object”  (which  was,  of  course,  to  get  his 
mother’s  goodnight  kiss);  “but,  on  the  con¬ 
trary,  as  I  learned  later,  for  years  an  anguish 
of  the  same  kind  was  the  torture  of  Swann’s 
own  life.  That  anguish,  which  consists  in 
knowing  that  the  being  one  loves  is  in  some 

3:63 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

gay  scene  [lieu  de  plaisir ]  where  one  is  not, 
where  there  is  no  hope  of  one’s  being;  that 
anguish,  it  was  through  the  passion  of  love 
that  he  experienced  it — that  passion  to 
which  it  is  in  some  sort  predestined,  to 
which  it  peculiarly  and  specifically  pertains” 
— and  then,  when  Frangoise  has  been  per¬ 
suaded  to  take  the  child’s  letter,  and  his 
mother  (engaged  with  her  guest)  does  not 
come,  but  says  curtly:  “There  is  no  answer” 
— “Alas!”  the  narrator  continues,  “Swann 
also  had  had  that  experience,  had  learned 
that  the  good  intentions  of  a  third  person 
are  powerless  to  move  a  woman  who  is  irri¬ 
tated  at  feeling  herself  pursued  in  scenes  of 
enjoyment  by  some  one  whom  she  does  not 
love — ”  and  suddenly,  by  one  touch,  in  the 
first  pages  of  that  quiet  opening  chapter  in 
which  a  little  boy’s  drowsy  memories  recon¬ 
stitute  an  old  friend’s  visit  to  his  parents,  a 
light  is  flashed  on  the  central  theme  of  the 
book:  the  hopeless  incurable  passion  of  a 
sensitive  man  for  a  stupid  uncomprehending 
woman.  The  foot-fall  of  Destiny  has  echoed 

164 


MARCEL  PROUST 


through  that  dull  provincial  garden,  her 
touch  has  fallen  on  the  shoulder  of  the  idle 
man  of  fashion,  and  in  an  instant,  and  by 
the  most  natural  of  transitions,  the  quiet 
picture  of  family  life  falls  into  its  place  in 
the  great  design  of  the  book. 

Proust’s  pages  abound  in  such  anticipatory 
flashes,  each  one  of  which  would  make  the 
fortune  of  a  lesser  novelist.  A  peculiar  dual¬ 
ity  of  vision  enabled  him  to  lose  himself  in 
each  episode  as  it  unrolled  itself  before  him 
— as  in  this  delicious  desultory  picture  of 
Swann’s  visit  to  his  old  friends — and  all  the 
while  to  keep  his  hand  on  the  main  threads 
of  the  design,  so  that  no  slightest  incident 
contributing  to  that  design  ever  escapes  him. 
This  degree  of  saturation  in  one’s  subject 
can  be  achieved  only  through  something  like 
the  slow  ripening  processes  of  nature.  Tyn¬ 
dall  said  of  the  great  speculative  minds: 
“There  is  in  the  human  intellect  a  power  of 
expansion — I  might  almost  call  it  a  power  of 
creation — which  is  brought  into  play  by  the 
simple  brooding  upon  facts”;  and  he  might 

165 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

have  added  that  this  brooding  is  one  of  the 
most  distinctive  attributes  of  genius,  is  per¬ 
haps  as  near  an  approach  as  can  be  made  to 
the  definition  of  genius. 

Nothing  can  be  farther  from  the  mechan¬ 
ical  ingenuities  of  “plot ’’-weaving  than  this 
faculty  of  penetrating  into  a  chosen  subject 
and  bringing  to  light  its  inherent  properties. 
Neither  haste  to  have  done,  nor  fear  lest  the 
reader  shall  miss  his  emphasis,  ever  affects 
the  leisurely  movement  of  Proust’s  narra¬ 
tive,  or  causes  him  to  give  unnatural  relief 
to  the  passages  intended  to  serve  as  sign¬ 
posts.  A  tiny  “blaze,”  here  and  there,  on  the 
bark  of  one  of  the  trees  in  his  forest,  suffices 
to  show  the  way;  and  the  explorer  who  has 
not  enough  wood-craft  to  discover  these 
signs  had  best  abstain  from  the  adventure. 

Ill 

It  was  one  of  the  distinctive  characters  of 
Proust’s  genius  that  he  combined  with  his 
great  sweep  of  vision  an  exquisite  delicacy  of 
touch,  a  solicitous  passion  for  detail.  Many 

166 


MARCEL  PROUST 


of  his  pages  recall  those  mediaeval  manu¬ 
scripts  where  the  roving  fancy  of  the  scribe 
has  framed  some  solemn  gospel  or  epistle  in 
episodes  drawn  from  the  life  of  towns  and 
fields,  or  the  pagan  extravagances  of  the 
Bestiary.  Jane  Austen  never  surpassed  in  con¬ 
ciseness  of  irony  some  of  the  conversations 
between  Marcel’s  maiden  aunts,  or  the  de¬ 
scription  of  Madame  de  Cambremer  and  Ma¬ 
dame  de  Franquetot  listening  to  music;  and 
one  must  turn  to  “Cranford”  for  such  micro¬ 
scopic  studies  of  provincial  life  as  that  of 
the  bed-ridden  aunt,  Madame  Octave,  who 
is  always  going  to  get  up  the  next  day,  and 
meanwhile  lies  beside  her  bottle  of  Vichy 
and  her  purple  velvet  prayer-book  “bursting 
with  pious  images,”  and  listens  to  Fran- 
goise’s  report  of  what  is  going  on  in  the 
street,  down  which  Madame  Goupil,  just 
before  a  thunder-storm,  is  seen  walking  with¬ 
out  her  umbrella  in  the  new  silk  dress  she  has 
had  made  at  Chateaudun! 

But  just  as  the  reader  is  sinking  delectably 
into  the  feather-bed  of  the  small  town, 

i67 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


Proust  snatches  him  up  in  eagle’s  talons  and 
swings  him  over  the  darkest  abysses  of  pas¬ 
sion  and  intrigue — showing  him,  in  the  slow 
tortures  of  Swann’s  love  for  Odette,  and  of 
Saint-Loup’s  for  Rachel,  the  last  depths  and 
involutions  of  moral  anguish,  or  setting  the 
frivolous  careers  of  the  two  great  Guer- 
mantes  ladies,  the  Duchess  and  the  Princess, 
on  a  stage  vaster  than  any  since  Balzac’s,  and 
packed  with  a  human  comedy  as  multifari¬ 
ous.  This  changing  but  never  confusing 
throng  is  composed  of  most  of  the  notable 
types  of  a  society  which  still  keeps  its  aris¬ 
tocratic  frame-work:  the  old  nobility  of  the 
“Faubourg”  with  their  satellites;  rich  and 
cultivated  Jews  (such  as  Swann  and  Bloch), 
celebrated  painters,  novelists,  actresses,  di¬ 
plomatists,  lawyers,  doctors,  Academicians; 
men  of  fashion  and  vice,  declassees  Grand 
Duchesses,  intriguing  vulgarians,  dowdy 
great  ladies,  and  all  the  other  figures  com¬ 
posing  the  most  various,  curious,  and  restless 
of  modern  societies. 

Without  visible  effort  Proust’s  art  mar- 

168 


MARCEL  PROUST 

shals  these  throngs  and  then  turns  serenely 
aside  to  put  the  last  tender  touches  to  his  de¬ 
scription  of  the  hawthorns  at  Combray,  or 
the  lovely  episode  of  Marcel’s  first  visit  to 
Rachel,  where  the  young  man  walks  up  and 
down  under  the  blossoming  pear-trees  while 
Saint-Loup  goes  to  fetch  his  mistress.  Every 
reader  enamoured  of  the  art  must  brood  in 
amazement  over  the  way  in  which  Proust 
maintains  the  balance  between  these  two 
manners — the  broad  and  the  minute.  His  en¬ 
dowment  as  a  novelist — his  range  of  presen¬ 
tation  combined  with  mastery  of  his  instru¬ 
ments — has  probably  never  been  surpassed. 

Fascinating  as  it  is  to  the  professional  to 
dwell  on  this  amazing  virtuosity,  yet  the 
lover  of  Proust  soon  comes  to  feel  that  his 
rarest  quality  lies  beyond  and  above  it — lies 
in  the  power  to  reveal,  by  a  single  allusion, 
a  word,  an  image,  those  depths  of  soul  be¬ 
yond  the  soul’s  own  guessing.  The  man  who 
could  write  of  the  death  of  Marcel’s  grand¬ 
mother:  “A  few  hours  ago  her  beautiful 
hair,  just  beginning  to  turn  gray  .  .  .  had 

169 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 

seemed  less  old  than  herself.  Now,  on  the 
contrary,  it  placed  the  crown  of  age  on  a 
face  grown  young  again,  and  from  which 
the  wrinkles,  the  contractions,  the  heavi¬ 
ness,  the  tension,  the  flaccidity  caused  by 
suffering  had  all  disappeared.  As  in  the  far- 
off  time  when  her  parents  had  chosen  her 
bridegroom  for  her,  the  features  of  her  face 
were  delicately  traced  in  lines  of  purity  and 
submission,  the  cheeks  shone  with  chaste 
hopes,  with  a  dream  of  bliss,  even  with  an 
innocent  gaiety  that  the  years,  one  by  one, 
had  slowly  destroyed.  Life,  in  leaving  her 
had  taken  with  it  the  disillusionments  of 
life.  A  smile  seemed  to  rest  upon  my  grand¬ 
mother’s  lips.  On  that  funeral  bed,  death, 
like  the  mediaeval  sculptor,  had  laid  her 
down  in  the  guise  of  a  young  girl — ”  the 
man  who  could  find  words  in  which  to  ex¬ 
press  the  inexpressible  emotion  with  which 
one  comes  suddenly,  in  some  apparently  un¬ 
known  landscape,  upon  a  scene  long  known 
to  the  soul  (like  that  mysterious  group  of 
trees  encountered  by  Marcel  in  the  course  of 

170 


MARCEL  PROUST 

a  drive  with  Madame  de  Villeparisis) — the 
man  who  could  touch  with  so  sure  and  com¬ 
passionate  a  hand  on  the  central  mysteries  of 
love  and  death,  deserves  at  such  moments  to 
be  ranked  with  Tolstoy  when  he  describes 
the  death  of  Prince  Andrew,  with  Shake¬ 
speare  when  he  makes  Lear  say:  “Pray  you, 
undo  this  button.  .  .  .” 


IV 

Hitherto  I  have  only  praised. 

In  writing  of  a  great  creative  artist,  and 
especially  of  one  whose  work  is  over,  it  is 
always  better  worth  while  to  dwell  on  the 
beauties  than  to  hunt  down  the  blemishes. 
Where  the  qualities  outweigh  the  defects  the 
latter  lose  much  of  their  importance,  even 
when,  as  sometimes  in  Proust’s  case,  they 
are  defects  in  the  moral  sensibility,  that  tun¬ 
ing-fork  of  the  novelist’s  art. 

It  is  vain  to  deny,  or  to  try  to  explain 
away,  this  particular  blemish — deficiency,  it 
should  be  rather  called — in  Proust’s  work. 
Undoubtedly  there  are  blind  spots  in  his 

171 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


books,  as  there  are  in  Balzac’s,  in  Stendhal’s, 
in  Flaubert’s;  but  Proust’s  blind  spots  are 
peculiarly  disconcerting  because  they  are  in¬ 
termittent.  One  cannot  dismiss  the  matter  by 
saying  that  a  whole  category  of  human  emo¬ 
tions  is  invisible  to  him,  since  at  certain 
times  his  vision  is  acutest  at  the  precise  angle 
where  the  blindness  had  previously  occurred. 

A  well-known  English  critic,  confusing 
the  scenes  in  which  Proust’s  moral  sense  has 
failed  him  with  those  (far  more  numerous) 
in  which  he  deliberately  portrays  the  viler 
aspects  of  the  human  medley,  suggests  that 
timorous  readers  might  find  unmingled  en¬ 
joyment  in  the  perusal  of  “A  la  Recherche 
du  Temps  Perdu”  by  the  simple  expedient  of 
‘‘thinking  away”  M.  de  Charlus — as  who 
should  propose  “thinking  away”  FalstafF 
from  the  plays  in  which  he  figures !  It  would, 
in  fact,  be  almost  as  difficult  to  dismiss  M. 
de  Charlus  with  an  “I  know  thee  not,  old 
man,”  as  FalstafF;  and  quite  as  unnecessary. 
It  is  not  by  daring  to  do  “in  the  round”  a 
mean  or  corrupt  character — an  Iago,  a  Lord 

I72- 


MARCEL  PROUST 


Steyne,  a  Philippe  Bridau,  or  a  Valerie  Mar- 
neffe — that  a  novelist  diminishes  the  value  of 
his  work.  On  the  contrary,  he  increases  it. 
Only  when  the  vileness  and  the  cruelty  es¬ 
cape  him,  when  he  fails  to  see  the  blackness 
of  the  shadow  they  project,  and  thus  uncon¬ 
sciously  flattens  his  modelling,  does  he  cor¬ 
respondingly  empoverish.  the  picture;  and 
this  Proust  too  often  did — but  never  in  draw¬ 
ing  M.  de  Charlus,  whose  ignominy  was  al¬ 
ways  as  vividly  present  to  him  as  Iago’s  or 
Goneril’s  to  their  creator. 

There  is  one  deplorable  page  where  the 
hero  and  narrator,  with  whose  hyper-sensi¬ 
tiveness  a  hundred  copious  and  exquisite  pas¬ 
sages  have  acquainted  us,  describes  with 
complacency  how  he  has  deliberately  hidden 
himself  to  spy  on  an  unedifying  scene.  This 
episode — and  several  others  marked  by  the 
same  abrupt  lapse  of  sensibility — might  be 
“thought  away’’  with  all  the  less  detriment 
that,  at  such  moments,  Proust’s  characters 
invariably  lose  their  probableness  and  begin 
to  stumble  through  their  parts  like  good 

I73 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


actors  vainly  trying  to  galvanize  a  poor  play. 
All  through  his  work  there  are  pages  liter¬ 
ally  trembling  with  emotion;  but  wherever 
the  moral  sensibility  fails,  the  tremor,  the 
vibration,  ceases.  When  he  is  unaware  of  the 
meanness  of  an  act  committed  by  one  of  his 
characters,  that  character  loses  by  so  much 
of  its  life-likeness,  and,  reversing  Pygma¬ 
lion’s  gesture,  the  author  turns  living  beings 
back  to  stone. 

But  what  are  these  lapses  in  a  book  where 
countless  pages  throb  with  passionate  pity 
and  look  at  one  with  human  eyes?  The  same 
man  who  thus  offends  at  one  moment,  at  the 
next  has  one  by  the  heartstrings  in  a  scene 
such  as  that  where  the  hero,  hearing  his 
grandmother  speak  for  the  first  time  over  the 
telephone,  is  startled  into  thoughts  of  death 
and  separation  by  the  altered  sound  of  a  fa¬ 
miliar  voice;  or  that  in  which  Saint-Loup 
comes  up  to  Paris  on  twenty-four  hours’ 
leave,  and  his  adoring  mother  first  exults  at 
the  thought  that  he  is  going  to  spend  his 
evening  with  her,  then  bitterly  divines  that 

I74 


MARCEL  PROUST 


he  is  not,  and  finally  trembles  lest,  by  be¬ 
traying  her  disappointment,  she  shall  have 
spoilt  his  selfish  pleasure.  And  it  is  almost 
always  at  the  very  moment  when  the  reader 
thinks:  “Oh,  if  only  he  doesn’t  fail  me  now!" 
that  he  floods  his  squalid  scene  with  the 
magic  of  an  inexhaustible  poetry,  so  that 
one  could  cry  out,  like  Sigmund  when  the 
gale  blows  open  the  door  of  the  hut:  “No 
one  went — some  one  came!  It  is  the  spring  " 
M.  Benjamin  Cremieux,  whose  article  on 
Proust  is  the  most  thoughtful  study  of  his 
work  yet  published,  has  come  upon  the  ob¬ 
stacle  of  Proust’s  lapses  of  sensibility,  and 
tried,  not  very  successfully,  to  turn  it.  Ac¬ 
cording  to  this  critic,  Proust’s  satire  is  never 
“based  on  a  moral  ideal,”  but  is  always 
merely  “complementary  to  his  psycholog¬ 
ical  analysis.  The  only  occasion”  (M.  Cre¬ 
mieux  continues)  “where  Proust  incidentally 
speaks  of  a  moral  ideal  is  in  the  description 
of  the  death  of  Bergotte.”  He  then  cites  the 
beautiful  passage  in  question:  “Everything 
happens  in  our  lives  as  though  we  had  en- 

175 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


tered  upon  them  with  a  burden  of  obliga¬ 
tions  contracted  in  an  anterior  existence; 
there  is  nothing  in  our  earthly  condition  to 
make  us  feel  that  we  are  under  an  obligation 
to  be  good,  to  be  morally  sensitive  \etre  deli- 
cats\ ,  even  to  be  polite;  nor,  to  the  artist,  to 
begin  over  again  twenty  times  a  passage 
which  will  probably  be  admired  only  when 
his  body  has  been  devoured  by  worms.  .  .  . 
All  these  obligations,  which  have  no  sanc¬ 
tion  in  our  present  life,  seem  to  belong  to  a 
different  world,  a  world  founded  on  good¬ 
ness,  on  moral  scruple,  on  sacrifice,  a  world 
entirely  different  from  this  one,  a  world 
whence  we  come  when  we  are  born  on  earth, 
perhaps  to  return  there  and  live  once  more 
under  the  rule  of  the  unknown  laws  which 
we  have  obeyed  here  because  we  carried  their 
principles  within  ourselves,  without  know¬ 
ing  who  decreed  that  they  should  be;  those 
laws  to  which  every  deep  intellectual  labour 
draws  us  nearer,  and  which  are  invisible  only 
— and  not  always!— to  fools.” 

It  is  difficult  to  see  how  so  deliberate  a 

176 


MARCEL  PROUST 

profession  of  faith  in  a  moral  ideal  can  be 
brushed  aside  as  “incidental.”  The  passage 
quoted  would  rather  seem  to  be  the  key  to 
Proust’s  whole  attitude:  to  its  weakness  as 
well  as  to  its  strength.  For  it  will  be  noticed 
that,  among  the  mysterious  “obligations” 
brought  with  us  from  that  other  “entirely 
different”  world,  he  omits  one;  the  old  sto¬ 
ical  quality  of  courage.  That  quality,  moral 
or  physical,  seems  never  to  have  been  recog¬ 
nized  by  him  as  one  of  the  mainsprings  of 
human  action.  He  could  conceive  of  human 
beings  as  good,  as  pitiful,  as  self-sacrificing, 
as  guided  by  the  most  delicate  moral  scru¬ 
ples;  but  never,  apparently,  as  brave,  either 
by  instinct  or  through  conscious  effort. 

Fear  ruled  his  moral  world :  fear  of  death, 
fear  of  love,  fear  of  responsibility,  fear  of 
sickness,  fear  of  draughts,  fear  of  fear.  It 
formed  the  inexorable  horizon  of  his  uni¬ 
verse  and  the  hard  delimitation  of  his  art¬ 
ist’s  temperament. 

In  saying  so  one  touches  on  the  narrow 
margin  between  the  man’s  genius  and  his 

177 


THE  WRITING  OF  FICTION 


physical  disabilities,  and  at  this  point  criti¬ 
cism  must  draw  back,  or  linger  only  in  rev¬ 
erent  admiration  of  the  great  work  achieved, 
the  vast  register  covered,  in  spite  of  that 
limitation,  in  conflict  with  those  disabilities. 

Nietzsche’s  great  saying,  “Everything 
worth  while  is  accomplished  notwithstand¬ 
ing”  [trot^dem],  might  serve  as  the  epitaph  of 
Proust. 


178 


ISO,  !  0> 


